There is clearly added value in promoting innovation at Community level, by setting up excellence-driven strategic long-term partnerships in critical areas between all actors involved in the knowledge triangle.
The Commission undertook a process of reflection and carried out wide-ranging consultations which resulted in the presentation of a first Communication on 22 February 2006 [1].
Objectives and main content of the proposal The EIT will contribute to improving the competitiveness base of the Member States by involving partner organisations in integrated innovation, research and education activities at the highest international standards.
The Community has, in any event, been engaged in supporting the Member States in their efforts to improve innovation and the knowledge triangle.
To bridge the innovation gap between the EU and its major competitors, it will be necessary to support excellence-driven strategic partnerships at the EU level between actors involved in the three parts of the knowledge triangle, on an inter and trans-disciplinary basis.
Article 157 (3) allows the Council, acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 251 and after consulting the Economic and Social Committee, to decide on specific measures in support of action taken in the Member States aimed at fostering a better exploitation of the industrial potential of policies of innovation, research and technological development. 3.3.
In accordance with the principle of proportionality, the provisions of this regulation do not go beyond what is necessary to achieve its goals.
The financing of this amount can either come directly from the Community budget, directly or indirectly through Community programmes or from other external sources.
As regards the Community sources, the Commission notes that no specific provision has been made for the EIT in the new legislative proposals included in the negotiations on the Inter-institutional Agreement of 17 May 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management.
The Structural Funds can play a potentially important role for partner organisations involving eligible Member States, regions, cities or other beneficiaries because many types of expenditure or investment are eligible under the Structural Fund rules and would fall under the earmarking for Lisbon priorities.
The agreement between the EIT and KICs should provide that the degrees and diplomas awarded through the KICs should be EIT degrees and diplomas.
The EIT should promote the recognition of EIT degrees and diplomas in the Member States.
Article 3 Objective The objective of the EIT is to contribute to industrial competitiveness by reinforcing the innovation capacity of Member States and the Community.
Article 4 Tasks 1.
The EIT may contribute up to 3% of its annual budget to such a Foundation.
Article 6 Degrees and diplomas 1.
Article 7 Independence of the EIT and consistency with Community, Member States or Intergovernmental action 1.
The EIT shall also take appropriate account of policies and initiatives at national and intergovernmental levels.
Article 8 The EIT Bodies 1.
Article 9 Management of Intellectual Property 1.
Article 10 Legal Status 1.
The Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities shall apply to the EIT.
Article 12 Transparency and access to documents 1.
Without prejudice to paragraphs 4 and 5, the EIT shall not divulge to third parties confidential information it has received for which confidential treatment has been requested and is justified. 4.
The members of the EIT bodies shall be subject to the confidentiality requirement referred to in Article 287 of the Treaty.
Article 13 Resources 1.
The EIT may apply for and/or channel Community assistance in particular in the framework of Community programmes and funds.
Article 14 Programming and Accountability 1.
The European Parliament, the Council or the Commission may address an opinion to the Governing Board of the EIT on any subject covered in the rolling triennial work programme.
Article 15 Evaluation of the EIT 1.
Article 17 Preparation and adoption of the annual budget 1.
The Governing Board shall adopt the draft estimate accompanied by the preliminary rolling triennial work programme, and forward them by 31 March to the Commission. 6.
Article 18 Implementation and control of the budget 1.
The EIT shall adopt its financial rules in accordance with Article 185(1) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002.
The Director shall implement the budget of the EIT. 3.
Upon a recommendation from the Council, the European Parliament shall, before 30 April of the year n + 2, give a discharge for the year n, to the Director in respect of the implementation of the EIT budget, and to the Governing Board in respect to the Foundation.
Article 19 Protection of the financial interests of the Community 1.
The EIT shall accede to the Inter-institutional Agreement of 25 May 1999 between the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and the Commission of the European Communities concerning internal investigations by the European Anti-fraud Office (OLAF) [12].
The Governing Board shall formalise this accession and adopt the necessary measures to help OLAF carry out internal investigations. 3.
Article 20 Review clause Five years after the adoption of this Regulation and every four years thereafter, the Commission shall report to the European Parliament and to the Council on the implementation of this Regulation and on the operation of the EIT and shall make any appropriate proposals for the amendment of this Regulation.
Article 21 Statutes The statutes of the EIT, as set out in the Annex, are adopted.
Article 22 Entry into Force This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
The Governing Board shall adopt decisions by simple majority of all its members.
Article 4 The Executive Committee 1.
Article 5 The Director 1.
The Governing Board may extend that term of office once by 4 years when it considers that the interests of the EIT are best served by so doing. 2.
Article 6 The Audit Committee 1.
The functions entrusted by Article 185(3) of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 to the Commission’s internal auditor shall be carried out under the responsibility of the Audit Committee, which shall make appropriate provision.
Article 7 Staff of the EIT 1.
Article 8 Principles guiding the organization and management of the Knowledge and Innovation Communities 1.
Article 9 Principles for the evaluation and monitoring of the Knowledge and Innovation Communities The EIT shall organise continuous monitoring and periodic independent evaluations of the outcomes and results of each KIC.
Article 10 Duration, Continuation and Termination of a Knowledge and Innovation Community 1.
Article 11 Implementation and control of the budget 1.
The Director shall send the Court of Auditors a reply to its observations by 30 September at the latest.
Article 12 Winding up of the EIT In the event of winding up of the EIT, its liquidation shall intervene under the supervision of the Commission in conformity with the laws applicable.
Method of Implementation (indicative) Centralised Management directly by the Commission indirectly by delegation to: executive Agencies X bodies set up by the Communities as referred to in Article 185 of the Financial Regulation national public-sector bodies/bodies with public-service mission Shared or decentralised management with Member states with Third countries Joint management with international organisations (please specify) Relevant comments: The EIT will be a body set up by the Communities as referred to in Article 185 of the Financial Regulation, but it will not be an “Agency” in the generally accepted sense of that word.
MONITORING AND EVALUATION An extended impact assessment for which background work was done by external consultants during summer 2006, has been carried out which integrates the requirements for an impact assessment and for an ex-ante evaluation.
