The renewed Lisbon agenda 5 2.2.
Governance 10 4.
GUIDELINES FOR COHESION POLICY, 2007-2013 12 4.1.
GUIDELINE: Improving knowledge and innovation for growth 17 4.2.1.
Facilitate innovation and promote entrepreneurship 19 4.2.3.
Improve access to finance 22 4.3.
Administrative Capacity 27 4.3.5.
Supporting the economic diversification of rural areas 30 5.3.
Transnational cooperation 31 5.6.
INTRODUCTION The recent enlargement to 25 Member States, with Bulgaria and Romania also set to join the Union in 2007, has dramatically increased disparity levels across the EU.
The recently published Third Interim Report on Cohesion confirmed that the enlargement of the Union to 25 Member States, later to 27 or more, presents an unprecedented challenge for the competitiveness and internal cohesion of the Union.
These are the principles governing the proposals for the reform of cohesion policy for the period 2007-2013 presented by the Commission in the Third Cohesion Report of February 2004 and in budgetary and legislative form in July 2004.
This is reflected in a reinforced dialogue in the partnerships between the Commission, the Member States and the regions and in a clearer and more decentralised sharing of responsibilities in areas such as financial management and control.
In accordance with Article 23 of the draft Council Regulation (EC) laying down general provisions for the European Regional Development Funds (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ESF) and the Cohesion Fund[5], it is for the Council to establish, after the adoption of the regulations and on the basis of a Commission proposal, Community strategic guidelines for cohesion policy to “give effect to the priorities of the Community with a view to promote balanced, harmonious and sustainable development ”[6].
The Community Strategic Guidelines sketched out in this Communication have the following main characteristics: - the financial instruments at the disposal of Cohesion policy are the Structural Funds (the ERDF and the ESF) and the Cohesion Fund.
COHESION, GROWTH, JOBS 2.1.
The renewed Lisbon agenda The conclusions of the March 2000 European Council in Lisbon[7] – the basic text defining the Lisbon strategy – set out a strategy and a broad range of objectives and policy tools with the aim of making the European Union more dynamic and competitive.
By mobilising the potential for growth that exists in all regions, cohesion policy improves the geographical balance of economic development and raises the potential rate of growth in the Union as a whole.
Activities co-financed by cohesion policy secure a high degree of additionality for EU funds, in particular by shifting resources for investment to areas where expenditure can have the greatest impact and added value.
In order to promote under the national and regional development programmes, 2007-2013, a sustainable development path and strengthen competitiveness in the knowledge-based economy, it is essential to concentrate resources on basic infrastructures, human capital, and research and innovation, including access to and strategic use of information and communication technologies (ICTs).
The policy mix in order for a Member State or region to achieve an appropriate combination of investments for growth depends on its specific characteristics, the structure of its economic activity and the nature and extent of its structural deficits, and its potential areas of comparative advantage.
Account also needs to be taken of other Community policy priorities, first because of their potential to contribute to growth and jobs within the framework of cohesion policy programmes and, second, in order to foster synergies with other EU policies on the ground. 3.2.
Regional competitiveness and employment The need for concentration on a limited number of key priorities, and in particular on research, innovation, accessibility and job creation, is compelling under this objective in order to ensure best use of limited financial resources.
To ensure a smooth adaptation following economic change and restructuring, investment in human capital can play an important role.
Meanwhile, in areas characterised by low population density , economic development is often driven by small firms, but the challenges facing them are similar.
There is a wide variation in the economic situation of rural areas .
For countries and regions, in particular those eligible under the Convergence objective, the quality and productivity of the public sector are essential in order to embrace reforms and good governance, especially in the economic, employment, social, educational, environmental and judicial fields.
The second dimension refers to measures and actions that are specifically needed in order to improve the capacity of Member States in managing and implementing the cohesion policy .
Therefore, action is needed in this field too, and should be backed up by technical assistance.
The principal benefits of such PPP schemes are that: • the public sector gains access to a range of private sector skills that should enable it to provide a more efficient and cost-effective service • the private sector takes on a range of risks that under traditional public procurement would be borne by the public sector • greater efficiency can be generated where a single party is responsible for design, construction, management and financing as a part of an integrated package.
GUIDELINES FOR COHESION POLICY, 2007-2013 In light of the above and of the renewed Lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, programmes co-financed through the cohesion policy should seek to target resources on the following three priorities[12]: - improving the attractiveness of Member States, regions and cities by improving accessibility, ensuring adequate quality and level of services, and preserving their environmental potential; - encouraging innovation, entrepreneurship and the growth of the knowledge economy by research and innovation capacities, including new information and communication technologies; and - creating more and better jobs by attracting more people into employment or entrepreneurial activity, improving adaptability of workers and enterprises and increasing investment in human capital.
Member States and regions should pursue the objective of equality between men and women at all stages of the preparation and implementation of programmes and projects.
Infrastructure investment in regions that are lagging behind, especially in the new Member States, will encourage growth and thus reinforce convergence with the rest of the Union.
Infrastructure investment needs to be adapted to the specific needs and level of economic development of the regions and countries concerned.
Second, the principle of environmental sustainability should be respected to the greatest possible extent, in accordance with the White Paper[13].
Fourth, investments in transport infrastructure should be accompanied by proper traffic management, with particular attention to safety, in accordance with national and Community standards.
National or regional strategies should take into account the need to achieve a balanced (and clean) modal split that serves both economic and environmental needs.
Strategies should include, for example, intelligent transport systems, multi-modal platforms and, in particular, technology used for the ERTMS and SESAME (for a more uniform air traffic management system in Europe).
Member States should make use of the co-ordinators as a means of shortening the time that elapses between designation of the planning of the network and the physical construction - Complementary investment in secondary connections will also be important in the context of an integrated regional transport and communications strategy covering urban and rural areas, in order to ensure that the regions benefit from the opportunities created by the major networks. - Support for rail infrastructure should seek to ensure greater access.
Track fees should facilitate access for independent operators.
Where Member States receive support from both the Cohesion Fund and the Structural Funds, a distinction should be made in the programmes between the types of actions funded by each of the Funds, with the Cohesion Fund playing the key role in support of Trans-European transport networks.
In order to maximise economic benefits and minimise the costs, priority should be given to tackling environmental pollution at its sources.
Accordingly, the recommended guidelines for action are the following: - Addressing the significant needs for investment in infrastructure , particularly in the Convergence regions, particularly in the new Member States, to comply with environmental legislation in the fields of water, waste, air, and nature and species protection. - Ensuring that attractive conditions exist for businesses and their highly-skilled staff .
Investments in this area should be clearly linked to the development of innovative and job-creating businesses on the sites concerned. - Promoting, in addition to the investments in sustainable energy and transport covered elsewhere, investments that contribute to the EU Kyoto commitments . - Undertaking risk prevention measures through improved management of natural resources, more targeted research and better use of ICTs, and more innovative public management policies (see map in annex).
Guidelines for action under this heading are the following: - Supporting projects to improve energy efficiency , and dissemination of low energy intensity development models. - Supporting the development of renewable and alternative technologies (wind, solar, biomass) which can give the EU a leading edge and thus strengthen its competitive position.
It is estimated that an increase in the share of RTD expenditure from 1.9% to 3% of GDP (in order to reach the Lisbon target by 2010) will result in an increase of 1.7% in the level of GDP by 2010[16].
In this context, it is necessary to enhance national and regional RTD capacities, to support investment in ICT infrastructure, and to disseminate technology and knowledge through appropriate technology transfer and knowledge exchange mechanisms.
While direct grants remain important, notably in Convergence regions, there is a need to focus on the provision of collective business and technology services to groups of firms, in order to help them improve their innovative activity.
This is particularly important in traditional sectors, particularly those exposed to global competition which need additional efforts in order to remain competitive, as well as in SMEs which often represent the highest source of employment at the regional level.
National and regional strategies must be based on a comprehensive analysis of RTD investment opportunities.
Increase and improve investment in RTD The competitiveness of European enterprises crucially depends on their ability to bring new knowledge to the market as quickly as possible.
Geographical proximity through the existence of clusters of SMEs and innovation poles around public research institutions for instance, must play a key role.
The guidelines for action in the field of RTD can be identified as follows: - Strengthening co-operation among businesses and between businesses and public research/higher education institutions by supporting the creation of regional and trans-regional clusters of excellence. - Supporting RTD activities in SMEs and enabling SMEs to access RTD services in publicly-funded research institutions. - Support for regional cross-border and transnational initiatives aimed at strengthening research collaboration and capacity building in priority areas of EU research policy. - Strengthen R%amp%D capacity building, including ICT, research infrastructure and human capital in areas with significant growth potential.
In the regions eligible under the Convergence objective, programmes can contribute to developing RTD and education infrastructure (including regional high-speed data networks between and within research establishments), equipment and instrumentation in both publicly funded research institutions and businesses, provided that these investments are directly linked to regional economic development objectives.
Support for Seventh Framework Programme priorities should seek to develop the full potential of emerging and existing centres of excellence and to step up investment in human capital, particularly by training researchers at national level and by creating conditions to attract researchers trained abroad. 4.2.2.
The main objective should be to promote a business climate which promotes the production, dissemination and use of new knowledge by firms.
Actions should seek to build on existing poles of activity in order to exploit regional potential for RTD and to foster networking and technological cooperation within and between regions.
The guidelines for action under this heading are the following: - Making regional RTD innovation and education supply more efficient and accessible to firms, in particular SMEs, for example by establishing poles of excellence, bringing together high technology SMEs around research and technological institutions, or by developing and creating regional clusters around large companies. - Providing business support services to enable enterprises, and in particular SMEs, to increase competitiveness and to internationalise, in particular by seizing the opportunities created by the Internal Market.
Business services should preferably be delivered by the private sector or by mixed public-private organisations.
Entrepreneurship education should also be encouraged in schools. 4.2.3.
The efficient and effective delivery of public services - in particular e-government and e-health – has a significant potential for economic growth and for enabling new services.
Technology dissemination can contribute to regional development by favouring the creation and growth of poles of excellence in ICT activities and developing connectivity and networking among enterprises and SMEs in particular.
Measures should encourage the development of products and services with a view to facilitating and stimulating private investment in ICT while guaranteeing competition in the ICT sector.
Policy measures should therefore focus on improving innovation support services for SMEs with the particular objective of boosting technology transfer between research institutions and enterprises.
It is therefore important that an appropriate broadband communication infrastructure is available across the Union at an accessible cost.
The identification of regional needs should take into account existing Union initiatives in favour of ICTs, in particular the i2010 – a European Information Society for growth and employment[18].
The guidelines for action are as follow: - Ensuring uptake of ICTs by firms and households and promoting development through the balanced support for the supply and demand of ICT products and both public and private services , as well as through increased investment in human capital.
These actions should increase productivity, promote an open and competitive digital economy and an inclusive society (for example, improving accessibility for disabled and elderly people), and thus boost growth and jobs. - Ensuring availability of ICT infrastructure where the market fails to provide it at an affordable cost and to an adequate level to support the required services, especially in remote and rural areas and in new Member States. 4.2.4.
Improving access to capital both for RTD activities and for start-ups is important.
Guarantee and mutual guarantee mechanisms should also be supported, in particular to facilitate access to micro-credit by SMEs.
In terms of human capital development, the Employment Guidelines highlight three priorities for action for Member States' policies: - attract and retain more people in employment and modernise social protection systems; - improve adaptability of workers and enterprises and the flexibility of the labour markets; - increase investment in human capital through better education and skills.
Employment and human resource development programmes should take into account the country-specific challenges and priorities, as highlighted in the Employment Recommendations, and can be managed at national or regional level.
Attract and retain more people in employment and modernise social protection systems Widening the base of economic activity, raising employment levels and reducing unemployment are vital to sustain economic growth, promote socially inclusive societies and combat poverty.
In the framework of the Employment Guidelines, Member States are called upon to: - Implement employment policies aimed at achieving full employment, improving quality and productivity at work, and strengthening social and territorial cohesion - Promote a life-cycle approach to work - Ensure inclusive labour markets, enhance work attractiveness, and make work pay for job-seekers, including disadvantaged people, and the inactive. - Improve matching of labour market needs.
Actions must be based on prior identification of needs by, for instance, using relevant national and/or regional indicators such as unemployment and participation rates, long-term unemployment rates, population at risk of poverty rates and level of income.
The presence of efficient and effective labour market institutions, notably employment services that can respond to the challenges of rapid economic and social restructuring and demographic ageing is essential in order to support service delivery to job seekers, the unemployed and disadvantaged people and could be supported by the Structural Funds.
These institutions have a pivotal role to play in implementing Active Labour Market Policies and providing services on a personalised basis with a view to promoting occupational and geographical mobility and matching labour supply and demand, including at local level.
The potential for self-employment and business creation, ICT skills and digital literacy should be fully taken into account.
The aim should be to: - improve their employability by enhancing participation in vocational education and training, rehabilitation and appropriate incentives and working arrangements, as well as the necessary social support and care services, including through the development of the social economy; - combat discrimination and promote the acceptance of diversity in the workplace through diversity training and awareness-raising campaigns, in which local communities and enterprises would be fully involved. 4.3.2.
The main focus should be on actions to promote investment in human resources by enterprises, especially SMEs, and workers through the provision of lifelong learning strategies and systems which equips employees, in particular low-skilled and older workers , with the necessary skills to adapt to the knowledge economy and to prolong their working life.
Priority should be given to SMEs, including facilitating their access to external sources of competence and training solutions –with emphasis being placed on ICT and management skills- and to increasing the participation of the low-skilled and older workers in training and re-training.
Increase investment in human capital through better education and skills Europe needs to invest more in human capital.
In the framework of the Employment Guidelines, Member States are called upon to: - Expand and improve investment in human capital - Adapt education and training systems in response to new competence requirements.
Financial resources should also be used for the implementation of reforms, which should address the following specific priorities: - ensuring an adequate supply of attractive, accessible and high quality education and training provision at all levels, including flexible learning pathways, a significant decline in early school-leaving and higher completion rates of upper secondary education; - supporting the modernisation of higher education and the development of human potential in research and innovation, through post-graduate studies, further training of researchers, and attracting more young people into scientific and technical studies; - promoting the quality and attractiveness of vocational education and training, including apprenticeships and entrepreneurship education; - ensuring, where appropriate, greater mobility at regional, national or transnational level, and promoting frameworks and systems to support the transparency and recognition of qualifications and the validation of non-formal and informal learning; - investment in education and training infrastructure including ICTs, where such investments are necessary for the implementation of reform and/or where they can significantly contribute to increasing the quality and effectiveness of the education and training system. 4.3.4.
For countries and regions under the Convergence objective, increasing productivity and quality at work in the public sector - especially in the economic, employment, social, educational, health, environmental and judicial areas, is essential to pursue and accelerate reforms, to raise productivity and growth in the wider economy and to promote social and territorial cohesion and sustainable development.
Actions in this field should take into account the specific situation of each Member State.
Good health care translates into greater participation in the labour market, longer working life, higher productivity and lower healthcare and social costs.
Member States should ensure that the need to increase efficiency in health care systems is addressed through investment in ICT, knowledge and innovation.
In particular, Member States are called upon to pay attention to: - Preventing health risks by means of generic health information campaigns and by ensuring a transfer of knowledge and technology and ensure that health services have the necessary skills, products and equipment to prevent risks and minimise their potential damage. - Filling the gaps in health infrastructure and promoting efficient provision of services where the economic development of regions eligible under the Convergence objective is being affected.
Cohesion policy can also play a central role in improving the situation of cross border and broader transnational areas as well as regions suffering from other handicaps due to their insularity, remoteness (such as the outermost or Arctic regions), sparse population or mountain character by promoting better accessibility, notably in the case of services of general economic interest, by sustaining economic activity and by promoting economic diversification on the basis of their endogenous capacities and natural endowments.
In general, support should focus on the development of participative and integrated strategies capable of tackling the high concentration of economic, environmental and social problems affecting urban agglomerations.
Actions supported include measures to promote entrepreneurship, local employment and community development , as well as the provision of services to the population, taking account of changing demographic structures.
Also important are measures to rehabilitate the physical environment , redevelop brownfield sites, and preserve and develop the historical and cultural heritage.
The key partners in the cities and local authorities have an important role to play in achieving these objectives.
Supporting the economic diversification of rural areas Cohesion policy can also play a key role in support of the economic regeneration of rural areas, complementing the actions supported by the new rural development fund (European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development).
In this context, Member States should ensure complementarity and coherence between actions to be financed by the ERDF, Cohesion Fund, ESF, EFF and EAFRD on a given territory and in a given field of activity.
Ensuring universal access to all services, particularly in very sparsely populated areas, may be achieved by investing in development poles in rural areas (for example in small and medium-sized towns) and by developing economic clusters based on local assets combined with the use of new information technologies. 5.3.
As a consequence, closer cooperation across EU regions should help speed up economic development and the achievement of higher growth.
Transnational cooperation programmes seek to increase cooperation across Member States on matters of strategic importance.
At that point, the Commission will provide the final version of the Community Strategic Guidelines for Cohesion to the Council for approval in accordance with Article 24 of the draft General Regulation.
The Strategic Guidelines are the basis for the National Strategic Reference Frameworks, which in turn determine the priorities set out in the Operational Programmes in accordance with Article 25 of the draft General Regulation.
Bearing in mind the limited resources available for cohesion policy programmes in the Member States and regions, the consultation is intended to help find a response to the following questions: - To what extent should cohesion policy support the growth and jobs agenda and the Lisbon process? - What new elements might be included in order to address this agenda? - Which aspects do you consider to be less relevant to this agenda?
The Commission therefore invites all relevant stakeholders to participate in this consultation exercise and would welcome comments before 30 September 2005.
In the rest of the paper, “Funds” is used in relation to the three Funds and “Structural Funds” when reference is made to the ERDF and ESF only. [6] COM(2004) 492, Article 23. [7] Presidency Conclusions, Lisbon European Council, 23 and 24 March 2000. [8] Communication to the Spring European Council “Working Together for growth and jobs – a new start for the Lisbon Strategy” - COM(2005) 24, 2.2.2005. [9] Presidency conclusions, European Council, March 2005. [10] COM(2005) 141. [11] See Third Cohesion Report, p. 149. [12] Communication to the Spring European Council “Working Together for growth and jobs – a new start for the Lisbon Strategy” - COM(2005) 24, 2.2.2005. [13] “European transport policy for 2010 : time to decide” - COM(2001) 370. [14] Decision No 884/2004/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, 29 April 2004. [15] “Investing in research: an action plan for Europe” - COM(2003) 226, 30.4.2003. [16] “The economic costs of non-Lisbon” - SEC(2005) 385, 15.3.2005. [17] SEC(2004) 1475. [18] COM(2005) 229. [19] Article 99 of the Treaty for the Broad Economic Policy Guidelines and Article 128 for the Employment Guidelines. [20] Article 23 of the draft Council Regulation (EC) laying down general provisions for the European Regional Development Funds (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ESF) and the Cohesion Fund. [21] COM(2005) 141,12.4.2005
