Proposal for a Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the seventh framework programme of the European Community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (2007 to 2013) {SEC(2005) 430} {SEC(2005) 431} /* COM/2005/0119 final - COD 2005/0043 */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 6.4.2005 COM(2005) 119 final 2005/0043 (COD) 2005/0044 (CNS) Proposal for a DECISION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL concerning the seventh framework programme of the European Community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (2007 to 2013) Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION concerning the seventh framework programme of the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) for nuclear research and training activities (2007 to 2011) BUILDING THE EUROPE OF KNOWLEDGE (presented by the Commission){SEC(2005) 430}{SEC(2005) 431} EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 1.
To become the “most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy in the world” while maintaining the “European Model”, Europe must increase its research effort to 3% of EU GDP and better exploit its capacities in this field, transforming scientific results into new products, processes and services.
PRIOR CONSULTATION In the preparation of the current proposals, the Commission has taken into account the views expressed by the other EU institutions, in particular the European Parliament and the Member States, as well as by many stakeholders in a broad consultation, including the scientific community and industry.
The assessment found that Europe faces many economic, social and environmental challenges that science and technology help address; that the European scientific and technological system has flaws, however; and that the EU successfully supported research through past Framework Programmes. 3.
LEGAL ASPECTS The proposal for the EC Framework Programme, which covers the period 2007-2013, is based on Chapter XVIII of the Treaty, articles 163 to 171, which provides for an EU research policy and its financial instruments, in particular the multi-annual Research Framework Programme.
In order to strengthen excellence and raise the average level of research in Europe, the basic principle is to stimulate, organise and exploit all forms of cooperation in research, from collaboration in joint projects and networks to the coordination of national research programmes, competition at the European level as well as the joint implementation of large technology initiatives and the common development of infrastructures of European dimension and interest.
In addition, there will be a specific programme for the non-nuclear actions of the Joint Research Centre.
HAVE DECIDED AS FOLLOWS: Article 1 Establishment of the Framework Programme The Framework Programme for Community activities in the area of research and technological development, including demonstration activities, hereinafter the “seventh Framework Programme” is hereby established for the period from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2013.
Article 3 The seventh Framework Programme shall be implemented through specific programmes.
The maximum overall amount for Community financial participation in this seventh Framework Programme shall be EUR 72726 million.
Article 6 All the research activities carried out under the seventh Framework Programme shall be carried out in compliance with fundamental ethical principles.
Article 7 Monitoring, assessment and review 1.
This Framework Programme will contribute to the realisation of these Strategic Research Agendas where these present true European added value.
Under each theme, beside these activities, the possibility will be ensured to address two types of opportunities and needs in an open and flexible way: - Emerging needs: through specific support for spontaneous research proposals aiming at identifying or further exploring, in a given field and/or at the intersection of several disciplines, new scientific and technological opportunities, in particular linked with a potential for significant breakthroughs; - Unforeseen policy needs: to respond in a flexible way to new policy needs that arise during the course of the Framework Programme, such as unforeseen developments or events requiring a quick reaction like, the new epidemics, emerging concerns in food safety or natural disaster response.
These initiatives, mainly resulting from the work of European Technology Platforms and covering one or a small number of selected aspects of research in their field, will combine private sector investment and national and European public funding, including grant funding from the Research Framework Programme and loan finance from the European Investment Bank.
Joint Technology Initiatives may be decided on the basis of Article 171 of the Treaty (this may include the creation of a joint undertaking) or on the basis of the Specific Programme Decisions in accordance with Article 166 of the Treaty.
Co-ordination of non-Community research programmes The action undertaken in this field will make use of two main tools: the ERA-NET scheme and the participation of the Community in jointly implemented national research programmes (Treaty Article 169).
The action will also be used to enhance the complementary and synergy between the Framework Programme and activities carried out in the framework of intergovernmental structures such as EUREKA and COST[11].
The participation of the Community in national research programmes jointly implemented on the basis of Article 169 is especially relevant to European co-operation on a large scale in “variable geometry” between Member States sharing common needs and/or interests.
Such Article 169 initiatives will be launched in areas to be identified in close association with the Member States, including the possible cooperation with intergovernmental programmes, on the basis of a series of criteria: - Relevance to EU objectives. - The clear definition of the objective to be pursued and its relevance to the objectives of this Framework Programme. - Presence of a pre-existing basis (national research programmes existing or envisaged). - European added value. - Critical mass, with regard to the size and the number of programmes involved, the similarity of activities they cover. - Efficiency of Article 169 as the most appropriate means for achieving the objectives.
International co-operation International cooperation actions under this part of the Framework Programme will be: - The opening of all activities carried out in the thematic areas to researchers and research institutions from all third countries, with a strong effort to encourage them to seize this opportunity. - Specific co-operation actions in each thematic area dedicated to third countries in the case of mutual interest in co-operating on particular topics.
This part of the Framework Programme covers the international co-operation actions in each thematic area and across themes.
Long term safety aspects and monitoring of large scale use of new medical technologies (including devices) and advanced therapies ensuring a high level of protection for public health. 2.
ICT is the leading factor in boosting innovation and creativity and in mastering change in value chains across industry and service sectors.
European technology platforms play a vital role in this regard, by mobilising the necessary research effort in a coordinated manner.
Rationale Transport is one of Europe’s strengths - the air transport sector contributes to 2.6% of the EU GDP (with 3.1 million jobs) and the surface transport field generates 11% of the EU GDP (employing some 16 million persons).
Mobility, both trans-national and intersectoral, including stimulating industrial participation and the opening of research careers and academic positions at European scale, is a key component of the European Research Area and indispensable to increase European capacities and performances in research.
The EU can and should play a catalysing and leveraging role by helping to ensure wider and more efficient access to, and use of, the infrastructures existing in the different Member States, by stimulating the development of these infrastructures in a coordinated way and by fostering the emergence of new research infrastructures of pan-European interest in the medium to long term.
Infrastructures projects proposed for funding in this respect will be identified on the basis of a series of criteria including in particular: - Added value of EU financial support - Capacity to offer a service to users from the scientific (academic and industrial) community at European level - Relevance at international level - Technological feasibility - Possibilities for European partnership and commitment of major stakeholders - Construction and operating costs evaluated.
Actions will be carried out in the entire field of science and technology.
The Competitiveness and Innovation Programme will provide support to networks of intermediaries and national schemes for actions to encourage and facilitate the participation of SMEs in the Framework Programme.
Activities The action in this domain will comprise support to: - Trans-national two-way secondments of research staff between selected organisations in the convergence regions, and one or more partner organisations; the recruitment by selected centres of incoming experienced researchers from other EU countries; - The acquisition and development of research equipment and the development of a material environment enabling a full exploitation of the intellectual potential present in the selected centres in the convergence regions; - The organisation of workshops and conferences to facilitate knowledge transfer; promotion activities as well as initiatives aiming at disseminating and transferring research results in other countries and on international markets. - “Evaluation facilities” through which any research centre in the convergence regions can obtain an international independent expert evaluation of the level of their overall research quality and infrastructures.
ACTIVITIES OF INTERNATIONAL CO-OPERATION To become competitive and play a leading role at world level, the European Community needs a strong and coherent international science and technology policy.
This international policy has two interdependent objectives: - To support European competitiveness through strategic partnerships with third countries in selected fields of science and by engaging the best third country scientists to work in and with Europe; - To address specific problems that third countries face or that have a global character, on the basis of mutual interest and mutual benefit.
Efforts will be undertaken to improve the coherence of national activities by supporting the co-ordination of national programmes on international scientific co-operation.
The decisions for specific programmes, work programmes and calls for proposals will mention, as and when appropriate: - The type(s) of scheme(s) used to fund different categories of actions; - The categories of participants (such as research organisations, universities, industry, public authorities) which can benefit from it; - The types of activities (research, development, demonstration, training, dissemination, transfer of knowledge and other related activities) which can be funded through each of them.
The funding schemes are the following: a) To support actions which are primarily implemented on the basis of calls for proposals: 1.
Projects can range from small or medium-scale focused research actions to larger integrating projects which mobilise a significant volume of resources for achieving a defined objective. 2.
Networks of Excellence Support to joint research programmes implemented by a number of research organisations integrating their activities in a given field, carried out by research teams in the framework of longer term co-operation.
The implementation of these joint programmes will require a formal commitment from the organisations integrating part of their resources and their activities. 3.
These actions may also be implemented by means other than calls for proposals. 4.
b) To support actions implemented on the basis of decisions by the Council and the European Parliament [25], based on a proposal from the Commission, the Community will provide financial support to multi-financed large-scale initiatives. - A financial contribution from the Community to the joint implementation of well identified national research programmes, on the basis of Article 169 of the Treaty.
Community financial support will be provided subject to the definition of a financing plan based on formal commitments from competent national authorities. - A financial contribution from the Community to the implementation of Joint Technology Initiatives to realise objectives that cannot be achieved through the funding schemes identified in point 1 above.
Joint Technology Initiatives may be decided and implemented on the basis of Article 171 of the Treaty (this may include the creation of joint undertakings) or through the Specific Programme Decisions.
This contribution may be decided on the basis of Article 171 of the Treaty or through the Specific Programme Decisions.
The Community will implement the funding schemes in compliance with the provisions of the regulation adopted pursuant to Article 167 of the Treaty, the relevant State Aid instruments, in particular the Community framework for state aid to research and development, as well as international rules in this area.
Subject to and in accordance with modalities to be established by the regulation adopted pursuant article 167 of the Treaty and the Council decisions adopting the specific programmes, this mechanism will enable broader EIB lending to European RTD actions (such as joint technology initiatives, large projects-including Eureka projects, and new research infrastructures).
EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 1.
To become the “most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy in the world” while maintaining the “European Model”, Europe must increase its research effort to 3% of EU GDP and better exploit its capacities in this field, transforming scientific results into new products, processes and services.
Prior consultation In the preparation of the current proposals, the Commission has taken into account the views expressed by the other EU institutions, in particular the European Parliament and the Member States, as well as by many stakeholders in a broad consultation, including the scientific community and industry.
The assessment found that Europe faces many economic, social and environmental challenges that science and technology help address; that the European scientific and technological system has flaws, however; and that the EU successfully supported research through past Framework Programmes. 3.
Legal aspects The proposal for the Euratom Framework Programme, which covers the period 2007-2011, is based on article 7 of the Euratom Treaty.
The actions implemented in the Euratom Framework Programme are complementary to those undertaken by the Member states in the field of nuclear energy.
As a matter of principle, all the provisions of the EC Framework Programme (for instance as regards funding schemes) are applicable in the Euratom Framework Programme, unless they depend on articles in the EC Treaty for which there is no equivalent in the Euratom Treaty.
HAS DECIDED AS FOLLOWS: Article 1 Establishment of the research and training framework programme A multiannual framework programme for nuclear research and training activities, hereinafter referred to as the “seventh framework programme” is hereby established for the period from 1 January, 2007 to 31 December , 2011.
Article 2 Objectives 1.
The seventh Framework programme shall pursue the general objectives set out in Article 1 and Article 2(a) of the Treaty, while contributing towards the creation of a knowledge-based society, building on a European Research Area. 2.
The second programme shall cover the activities of the Joint Research Centre in the field of nuclear energy. 3.
The overall amount for the implementation of the seventh framework programme for the period 2007 to 2011 shall be EUR 3092 million.
That amount shall be distributed as follows (in EUR million): Fusion energy research | 2159 | Nuclear Fission and radiation protection | 394 | Nuclear Activities of the Joint Research Centre | 539 | 2.
Article 4 Protection of the Communities’ financial interests For the Community actions financed under this Decision, Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 and Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2185/96 shall apply to any infringement of a provision of Community law, including infringement of a contractual obligation stipulated on the basis of the programme, resulting from an act or omission by an economic operator, which has, or would have, the effect of prejudicing the general budget of the European Communities or budgets managed by them, by an unjustified item of expenditure.
Article 5 All the research activities carried out under the seventh Framework Programme shall be carried out in compliance with fundamental ethical principles.
Article 6 Monitoring, assessment and review 1.
Following the completion of this framework programme, the Commission shall carry out an external evaluation by independent experts of its rationale, implementation and achievements.The Commission shall communicate the conclusions thereof, accompanied by its observations, to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
Activities - The realisation of ITER This includes activities for the joint realisation of ITER (as an international research infrastructure), in particular for site preparation, establishing the ITER Organisation and the European Joint Undertaking for ITER, management and staffing, general technical and administrative support, construction of equipment and installations and support to the project during construction. - R%amp%D in preparation of ITER operation A focused physics and technology programme will exploit the facilities and resources in the fusion programme, including JET.
It will assess specific key ITER technologies, consolidate ITER project choices, and prepare for ITER operation through experimental and theoretical activities. - Technology activities in preparation of DEMO This entails the vigorous development of fusion materials and key technologies for fusion, and the establishment of a dedicated project team to prepare for the construction of the International Fusion Materials Irradiation Facility (IFMIF) to qualify materials for DEMO.
The objective of this programme is to develop and assemble knowledge, to provide input to the debate on nuclear energy production, its safety and reliability, its sustainability and control, its threats and challenges, including innovative/future reactor systems.
Activities The JRC activities will focus on: Nuclear Waste Management and Environmental Impact aiming to understand the nuclear fuel processes from production of energy to waste storage and to develop effective solutions for the management of high level nuclear waste following the two major options (direct storage or partitioning and transmutation); Nuclear Safety , in implementing research on existing as well as on new fuel cycles and on reactor safety of both Western and Russian reactor types as well as on new reactor design.
These schemes will be used, either alone or in combination, to fund different categories of actions implemented throughout the Framework Programme. 1.
The Contracts of Association, between the Commission and Member States or fully Associated Third States or entities within Member States or fully Associated Third States which provide for the execution of part of the EU fusion energy research programme according to Article 10 of the Treaty; 1.2.
The European Fusion Development Agreement (EFDA), a multilateral agreement concluded between the Commission and organisations in, or acting for, Member States and Associated States providing inter alia the framework for further research on fusion technology in associated organisations and in industry, use of the JET facilities and the European contribution to international cooperation; 1.3.
International agreements between Euratom and third countries covering activities in the field of fusion energy research and development, in particular the ITER Agreement; 1.5.
Any other multilateral agreement concluded between the Community and associated organisations, in particular the Agreement on Staff Mobility; 1.6.
FUNDING SCHEMES IN OTHER FIELDS The activities in other fields than fusion energy by the Euratom Framework Programme will be funded through a range of funding schemes.
The decisions for specific programmes, work programmes and calls for proposals will mention, as and when appropriate: - The type(s) of scheme(s) used to fund different categories of actions; - The categories of participants (such as research organisations, universities, industry, public authorities) which can benefit from it; - The types of activities (research, development, demonstration, training, dissemination, transfer of knowledge and other related activities) which can be funded through each of them.
The funding schemes are the following: a) To support actions which are primarily implemented on the basis of calls for proposals: 1.
Projects can range from small or medium-scale focused research actions to larger integrating projects which mobilise a significant volume of resources for achieving a defined objective. 2.
Networks of Excellence Support to joint research programmes implemented by a number of research organisations integrating their activities in a given field, carried out by research teams in the framework of longer term co-operation.
The implementation of these joint programmes will require a formal commitment from the organisations integrating part of their resources and their activities. 3.
These actions may also be implemented by means other than calls for proposals. 4.
b) to support actions implemented on the basis of decisions by the Council, based on a proposal from the Commission, the Community will provide financial support to multi-financed large-scale initiatives: - A financial contribution from the Community to the implementation of Joint Undertakings carried out on the basis of the procedures and provisions set out in articles 45 -51, Chapter 5 of Title II of the Euratom Treaty. - A financial contribution from the Community to the development of new infrastructures of European interest.
The Community will implement the funding schemes in compliance with the provisions of the regulation adopted in the rules for participation of undertakings, research centres and universities, the relevant State aid instruments, in particular the Community framework for state aid to research and development, as well as international rules in this area.
In the case of participants to an indirect action established in a region lagging in development (convergence regions and outermost regions[50]) complementary funding from the Structural Funds will be mobilised wherever possible and appropriate. 3.
NAME OF THE PROPOSAL : Proposal for a Council Decision concerning the seventh framework programme of the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) for nuclear research and training activities (2007 to 2011) – Building the Europe of Knowledge 63.
Budget lines (operational lines and related technical and administrative assistance lines) including headings : Titles: 08 and 10 66.
Summary of commitment appropriations (CA) and payment appropriations (PA) EUR million (to 3 decimal places) cash prices Administrative expenditure not included in reference amount[55] | Human resources and associated expenditure (NDA) | 8.2.5 d | 4,986 | 5,085 | 5,187 | 5,291 | 5,397 | 5,504 | 5,615 | 37,064 | Administrative costs, other than human resources and associated costs, not included in reference amount (NDA) | 8.2.6 e | 0,148 | 0,151 | 0,154 | 0,157 | 0,160 | 0,163 | 0,167 | 1,101 | Total indicative financial cost of intervention TOTAL CA including cost of Human Resources | a+c+d+e | 463,553 | 554,408 | 680,994 | 701,968 | 717,305 | 813,121 | 841,437 | 4.772,785 | TOTAL PA including cost of Human Resources | b+c+d+e | Co-financing details If the proposal involves co-financing by Member States, or other bodies (please specify which), an estimate of the level of this co-financing should be indicated in the table below (additional lines may be added if different bodies are foreseen for the provision of the co-financing): EUR million (to 3 decimal places) Co-financing body | Year n | n + 1 | n + 2 | n + 3 | n + 4 | n + 5 and later | Total | …………………… | f | TOTAL CA including co-financing | a+c+d+e+f | 71.
EUR million (to one decimal place) Prior to action [Year n-1] | Situation following action | Total number of human resources | 73.
These elements are lucidly presented in the Explanatory Memorandum and in the Communication “Building the ERA of Knowledge for Growth” that is put forward at the same moment as the Commission proposals for the 7th Framework Programme. 75.
Flexibility should be maintained to allow the possibility of adapting these management arrangements depending on experience acquired during the first years of the 7th Framework Programme. (2) The European Joint Undertaking, based on the provisions of Articles 45-51, Title II of Chapter V of the Euratom Treaty, will be used for the creation of ITER (International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor). 77.
It was conducted and monitored by the Commission services with the help of a number of external experts. 81.
These include measures such a financial collective responsibility, sanctions against overcharging, measures to ensure the effective recovery of amounts due to the Commission, and administrative and legal measures taken to ensure full compliance with the Financial Regulation and its provisions regarding procedures for selecting and financing grants and services rendered to the Commission. 83.
The figures for 2012 are only for information 86.
Description of tasks deriving from the action Implementation of the Framework Programme 87.
Sources of human resources (statutory) (When more than one source is stated, please indicate the number of posts originating from each of the sources) ( Posts currently allocated to the management of the programme to be replaced or extended ( Posts pre-allocated within the APS/PDB exercise for year 2005 ( Posts to be requested in the next APS/PDB procedure (2006) ( Posts to be redeployed using existing resources within the managing service (internal redeployment) ( Posts required for year n although not foreseen in the APS/PDB exercise of the year in question 88.
Other Administrative expenditure included in reference amount (XX 01 05 – Expenditure on administrative management) EUR million (to 3 decimal places) Cash Prices XX 01 02 11 02 – Meetings %amp% Conferences | 0,001 | 0,001 | 0,001 | 0,001 | 0,001 | 0,003 | 0,008 | XX 01 02 11 03 – Committees[65] | 0,111 | 0,114 | 0,116 | 0,118 | 0,121 | 0,249 | 0,828 | XX 01 02 11 04 – Studies %amp% consultations | XX 01 02 11 05 - Information systems | 2 Total Other Management Expenditure (XX 01 02 11) | 3 Other expenditure of an administrative nature (specify including reference to budget line) | Total Administrative expenditure, other than human resources and associated costs (NOT included in reference amount) | 0,148 | 0,151 | 0,154 | 0,157 | 0,160 | 0,330 | 1,101 | 89.
The countries associated with the Framework Programme for Research were invited to join in 2004. [23] Convergence regions are those set out in Article 5 of the proposal for a Council Regulation laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund - COM(2004) 492.
