Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on the Legal framework for consumer policy Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on the Legal framework for consumer policy (2006/C 185/13) On 10 February 2005, the European Economic and Social Committee, acting under Rule 29(2) of its Rules of Procedure, decided to draw up an opinion on the Legal framework for consumer policy.
At its 426th plenary session, held on 20 and 21 April 2006 (meeting of 20 April), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 45 votes to 26, with two abstentions. 1.
It may — and indeed must — have a major influence on grassroots support for the European ideal as people see that ideal meet their own needs and aspirations. 2.2.3 On 14 October 2005, the EESC heard the views of numerous representatives who had responded to a questionnaire devised for this purpose.
The Community shall contribute to the attainment of the objectives referred to in paragraph 1 through: (a) measures adopted pursuant to Article 95 in the context of the completion of the internal market; (b) measures which support, supplement and monitor the policy pursued by the Member States. 4.
The Council, acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 251 and after consulting the Economic and Social Committee, shall adopt the measures referred to in paragraph 3(b). 5.
Measures adopted pursuant to paragraph 4 shall not prevent any Member State from maintaining or introducing more stringent protective measures.
The objectives set out in Article 175 and the criteria laid down in the same article for Community action on the environment have clearly done much to foster the emergence of an effective body of standards in this area. 3.5.1 A comparison between the current Treaty Articles 175 and 153 clearly shows that the quality of the legal basis itself is a crucial factor in any subsequent action.
Moreover, Article 175 establishes the principles underpinning Community action on this front.
The same goes for a policy that closely links the promotion of consumer interests with due respect for the environment. 5.4.2 Expression may be given to the following principles when drawing up Article 153: - the principle of preventative action; - the principle of effective redress; - the principle of developing sustainable consumption; - the principle of risk-creator pays; - the principle of participation.
This approach fosters maximum harmonisation, but subject to a case-by-case assessment. 5.4.6 Article 153 also introduces a new provision whereby consumer associations are deemed to be %quot%addressees%quot% within the meaning of Treaty Article 230.
The Council shall, acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 251 and after consulting the Economic and Social Committee, adopt such measures as are necessary to attain the objectives referred to in Article 153(1); these measures shall be subject to regular review in order to ensure that they continue to guarantee a high level of consumer protection. 2.
Harmonisation measures adopted pursuant to paragraph 1 shall not prevent any Member State from maintaining or introducing more stringent protective measures.
Point 6 Delete the entire point.
Outcome of the vote 31 votes in favour of deleting this point 24 against 14 abstentions. --------------------------------------------------
