At its 414th plenary session, held on 9 and 10 February 2005 (meeting of 10 February 2005), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by a unanimous vote: 1.
Attention is drawn, inter alia, to the fact that some of the currently existing Funds are not used on an across-the-board basis, with the result that the particular regions which may include the Natura 2000 sites have been virtually excluded from such aid.
Judging by the yardstick of GDP, people in the EU have never before been so prosperous whilst nature conservation has never before been in such a poor situation as is the case at present. 2.2 The EESC wishes to draw attention, in this context, to its own-initiative opinion from 2001 entitled "The situation of nature and nature conservation in Europe" [3] and the Commission's 2003 Environment Policy Review [4].
The EESC welcomes the fact that there is a large measure of agreement between the Commission and itself over the appraisal of the situation. 2.3 The establishment of the Natura 2000 network is based primarily on the Habitats Directive adopted in 1992.
The EESC strongly supports the Commission's declaration that biodiversity protection is not simply an option; rather it is a vital component of sustainable development. 2.12 It must, however, be recognised that the importance to regional economies, as described in point 2.2.3 of the Communication, and the attendant economic benefits, together with the resulting social benefits, are all too rarely appreciated or taken into account in the debate on nature conservation and Natura 2000. 2.13 Nature conservation (and therefore the designation of Natura 2000 sites) is often rather regarded — wrongly — as a cost factor, an imposition, a disadvantage or a threat; this is one major reason why these projects frequently give rise to opposition and why critical problems continue to arise with regard to the implementation of what is often exemplary nature conservation legislation. 2.14 The EESC paid considerable attention to this important fact in its abovementioned own-initiative opinion.
The EESC calls upon the Commission, working together not just with the other EU Institutions but also with all other stakeholders at EU level and in the Member States, to launch a wide-ranging campaign to stimulate awareness in this field. 2.15 It is essential that to instil a real awareness of the fact that, as the Commission points out, "a Natura 2000 site can become a driver for sustainable development in the local economy and can contribute to sustaining the local rural communities.
Active consideration of these issues in dialogue with all relevant stakeholders is the key to the successful establishment of the Natura 2000 network and its integration into the wider socio-economic sphere of an enlarging European Union".
It is essential for planning, administrative and financial arrangements in respect of the implementation of Natura 2000 to be carried out at the level where both the problems and the positive development potential exist, namely at local level in the Member States.
The financial situation in the EU and the expected argument over funding 3.5 The discussion on the financing of Natura 2000 sites has to take place against the background of the expected wrangling over the size of the overall EU budget and the allocation of resources [8].
As the heads of state have often stressed, nature conservation is a task for society as a whole and a vital political requirement for which financing had to be found. 3.8 In order to adhere to the principle of making economical use of budgetary resources, there is a need to specify (a) which of the areas of responsibility under Natura 2000 identified by the Commission are to be regarded as absolutely vital and (b) which of these areas may be regarded virtually as "optional".
Only 5.6 % of the overall area is listed as "agricultural land" [10]. 3.10 In Part 3 of the Annex (SEC(2004) 771) the Commission describes in detail the actions needed for the implementation of the Natura 2000 network and makes a calculation of the costs involved (the current figure is EUR 6.1 billion).
Living in or managing a Natura 2000 site should, in future, be regarded as a benefit, rather than as a drawback. 3.14 With a view to ensuring that this approach is adopted, there is a need to ascertain, in each individual case, the exact extent of the claim for compensation.
The EESC draws attention, with considerable concern, to the fact that new tasks or payments, under the second pillar (the future rural development pillar) in addition to the current payments, cannot be financed from this programme unless expenditure on other tasks is reduced or additional funding is provided. 3.14.2 To put it in a nutshell: if we wish to maintain the quality of rural development and also help to finance Natura 2000 via the second pillar of the CAP, additional funds clearly have to be earmarked.
This represents virtually a "mandatory programme"; in this context there is a need for EU participation, at least in those areas which are of European importance. 3.16 The natural corollary of this argument is, however, that not every local nature conservation measure represents a measure of European importance, which therefore deserves to be co-financed by the EU.
Brussels, 10 February 2005.
