At its 417th plenary session, held on 11/ 12 May 2005 (meeting of 11 May), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 151 votes to 1 with 8 abstentions: 1.
Administration. 2.1.2 The Commission proposes a larger increase in expenditure under priority 1.
It is proposed to raise total appropriations for commitments from EUR 120.7 million in 2006 to EUR 158.4 million in 2013.
The EESC expects this to be reflected in the implementation of the budget in real terms, and not only doing the same things in the same way under new headings. 5.2 The EESC shares the view of the Commission in giving priority to growth and employment, in the Lisbon perspective of the years up to 2010.
Competitiveness and economic growth are not final goals in themselves, but tools for promoting social and environmental goals.
The effects on sustainable development depend on the detailed design of programmes, objectives and criteria for projects to be financed. 5.8 The key instrument for ensuring policy coherence with sustainable development goals is impact assessment.
The EESC sees the preparation and the implementation of the new financial perspectives as a window of opportunity to finally introduce systematic assessment in practice. 5.9 Impact assessments need to be performed on every single programme in the budget and their objectives.
Actions should primarily focus on supporting new, sustainable jobs, increased competitiveness, human and physical capital, internal-market consolidation, and improving labour mobility. 6.2.3 Concentration of resources towards regions lagging behind (objective 1) and for a closer fit with the general strategic goals of the EU in the framework of sustainable development should be supported.
More emphasis on cross-border cooperation is also essential to integrate the internal market more deeply. 6.2.4 The transition period for the regions in which per capita GDP is higher than 75 % of the Community average, as a result of the statistical effect of enlargement, is needed.
In the ACP (Africa, Caribbean, Pacific) countries, the Cotonou programme has proved to be a valuable tool for involving social partners and organised civil society. 6.5.6 Sustainable development is to some degree integrated in these development programmes.
The EESC expects this to be reflected in the implementation of the budget in real terms, and not only doing the same things in the same way under new headings.
The Committee stresses that a restructuring of expenditures towards the priorities of the Union must take place irrespective of the level of own resources finally decided upon. 7.2 It is of utmost importance that the new financial perspectives, the frame of the EU budgets for 2007-2013, reflect clearly the priorities of the Union, in particular the Lisbon goals and sustainable development.
Competitiveness and economic growth are not final goals in themselves, but tools for promoting social and environmental goals.
The effects on sustainable development depend on the detailed design of programmes, objectives and criteria for projects to be financed. 7.6 The key instrument for ensuring policy coherence with sustainable development goals is impact assessment.
Brussels, 11 May 2005.
The President of the European Economic and Social Committee Anne-Marie Sigmund [1] COM(2004) 101 final [2] OJ C 125 of 27.5.2002, pp. 87-99 -------------------------------------------------- APPENDIX to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee The following amendments, which received at least a quarter of the votes cast, were rejected at the plenary session: Point 4.5 Amend as follows: "The EU sustainable development strategy concentrates presently on a few of the most seemingly urgent unsustainable trends in our societies — climate change, transport, public health and natural resources.
Voting: For: 51 Against: 54 Abstentions: 26. --------------------------------------------------
