Proposal for a Council Regulation on the conclusion of the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Cape Verde /* COM/2006/0363 final - CNS 2006/0122 */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 6.7.2006 COM(2006) 363 final 2006/0122 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION on the conclusion of the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Cape Verde (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM The Community and the Republic of Cape Verde have negotiated and initialled, on 16 December 2005, a Fisheries Partnership Agreement which provides Community fishermen with fishing opportunities in the Cape Verde fishing zone.
On the date of its entry into force, this Agreement repeals and replaces the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Cape Verde on fishing off the coast of Cape Verde which entered into force on 24 July 1990.
The Protocol and the Annex thereto setting out the technical and financial conditions governing the fishing activities of Community vessels have been signed for a period of five years from 1 September 2006.
The main objective of the new Partnership Agreement is to strengthen cooperation between the European Community and the Republic of Cape Verde, thereby creating a framework of partnership in which to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the Cape Verde fishing zone, in the interests of both parties.
The Commission proposes on this basis that the Council adopt the conclusion of this new Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Cape Verde by Regulation. 2006/0122 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION on the conclusion of the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Cape Verde THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 37 in conjunction with Article 300(2) and the first subparagraph of Article 300(3) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament, Whereas: 1.
The Community and the Republic of Cape Verde have negotiated and initialled a Fisheries Partnership Agreement providing Community fishermen with fishing opportunities in the waters falling within the sovereignty or jurisdiction of the Republic of Cape Verde. 2.
The method for allocating the fishing opportunities among the Member States should be defined, HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: Article 1 The Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Cape Verde is hereby approved on behalf of the Community.
Article 2 The fishing opportunities set out in the Protocol shall be allocated among the Member States as follows: Fishing category | Type of vessel | Member State | Licences or quota | Tuna fishing | Surface longliners | Spain | 41 | Portugal | 7 | Tuna fishing | Freezer tuna seiners | Spain | 12 | France | 13 | Tuna fishing | Pole-and-line tuna vessels | Spain | 7 | France | 4 | If licence applications from these Member States do not cover all the fishing opportunities laid down by the Protocol, the Commission may take into consideration licence applications from any other Member State.
Article 3 The Member States whose vessels fish under this Agreement shall notify the Commission of the quantities of each stock caught within the Cape Verde fishing zone in accordance with Commission Regulation (EC) No 500/2001 of 14 March 2001 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2847/93 on the monitoring of catches taken by Community fishing vessels in third country waters and on the high seas[1].
Article 4 This Regulation shall enter into force on the seventh day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
Article 3 – Principles and objectives underlying the implementation of this Agreement 1.
The parties hereby undertake to promote responsible fishing in Cape Verde waters on the basis of the principles laid down in the FAO’s Code of conduct for responsible fisheries and the principle of non-discrimination between the different fleets fishing in those waters. 2.
The results of the evaluations shall be analysed by the Joint Committee provided for in Article 9. 4.
Article 4 – Scientific cooperation 1.
Article 5 – Access by Community vessels to the fisheries in Cape Verde waters 1.
The fishing activities governed by this Agreement shall be subject to the laws and regulations in force in Cape Verde.
Article 6 – Licences 1.
Community vessels may fish in the Cape Verde fishing zone only if they are in possession of a fishing licence issued under this Agreement. 2.
Article 7 – Financial contribution 1.
This single contribution shall be composed of two related elements, namely: a) access by Community vessels to Cape Verde fisheries, and b) the Community’s financial support for promoting responsible fishing and the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in Cape Verde waters. 2.
The component of the financial contribution referred to in the above paragraph shall be determined and managed in the light of objectives identified by common accord between the parties in accordance with the Protocol, to be achieved in the context of the sectoral fisheries policy in Cape Verde and an annual and multiannual programme for its implementation. 3.
Article 8 – Promoting cooperation among economic operators and in civil society 1.
Article 9 – Joint Committee 1.
The Joint Committee shall perform the following functions: a) monitoring the performance, interpretation and application of this Agreement and, in particular, the definition of the annual and multiannual programming referred to in Article 7(2) and evaluation of its implementation; b) providing the necessary liaison for matters of mutual interest relating to fisheries; c) acting as a forum for the amicable settlement of any disputes regarding the interpretation or application of the Agreement; d) reassessing, where necessary, the level of fishing opportunities and, consequently, of the financial contribution; e) any other function which the parties decide on by mutual agreement. 2.
Article 10 – Geographical area to which the Agreement applies This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the European Community applies, under the conditions laid down in that Treaty, and, on the other, to the territory of Cape Verde.
Article 11 – Duration This Agreement shall apply for five years from the date of its entry into force; it shall be renewable for additional periods of five years, unless notice of termination is given in accordance with Article 12.
Article 12 – Termination 1.
The party concerned shall notify the other party of its intention to withdraw from the Agreement in writing at least six months before the date of expiry of the initial period or each additional period. 3.
Payment of the financial contribution referred to in Article 7 for the year in which the termination takes effect shall be reduced proportionately and pro rata temporis .
Payment of the financial contribution referred to in Article 7 shall be reduced proportionately and pro rata temporis , according to the duration of the suspension.
Article 14 – Protocol and Annex The Protocol and the Annex shall form an integral part of this Agreement.
Article 15 – National Law The activities of Community vessels operating in Cape Verde waters shall be governed by the applicable law in the Cape Verde, unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Protocol and the Annex and appendices thereto.
Article 16 – Repeal This Agreement, on the date of its entry into force, repeals and replaces the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Cape Verde on fishing off the coast of Cape Verde which entered into force on 24 July 1990.
Article 17 – Entry into force This Agreement, drawn up in duplicate in the Czech, Estonian, Danish, Dutch, English, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Latvia, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish languages, each of these texts being equally authentic, shall enter into force on the date on which the parties notify each other that their procedures have been completed.
Protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Cape Verde on fishing off the coast of Cape Verde for the period from 1 September 2006 to 31 August 2011 Article 1 Period of application and fishing opportunities 1.
For a period of five years from 1 September 2006, the fishing opportunities granted under Article 5 of the Agreement shall be as follows: Highly migratory species (species listed in Annex 1 to the 1982 United Nations Convention) - freezer tuna seiners: 25 vessels; - pole-and-line tuna vessels: 11 vessels; - surface longliners: 48 vessels. 2.
Paragraph 1 shall apply subject to Articles 4 and 5 of this Protocol. 3.
Vessels flying the flag of a Member State of the European Community may fish in Cape Verde waters only if they are in possession of a fishing licence issued under this Protocol in accordance with the Annex to this Protocol.
Article 2 Financial contribution – Methods of payment 1.
The financial contribution referred to in Article 7 of the Agreement shall comprise, for the period referred to in Article 1, an annual amount of EUR 325 000 equivalent to a reference tonnage of 5 000 tonnes per year and a specific amount of EUR 60 000 per year for the support and implementation of initiatives taken in the context of the Cape Verde sectoral fisheries policy.
This specific amount shall be an integral part of the single financial contribution defined in Article 7 of the Agreement. 2.
Paragraph 1 shall apply subject to Articles 4, 5 and 7 of this Protocol. 3.
The Community shall pay the sum of the amounts referred to in paragraph 1, EUR 385 000, each year during the period of application of this Protocol. 4.
If the overall quantity of catches by Community vessels in Cape Verde waters exceeds 5 000 tonnes per year, the amount of the financial contribution (EUR 325 000) shall be increased by EUR 65 for each additional tonne caught.
However, the total annual amount paid by the Community shall not be more than twice the amount indicated in paragraph 1 (EUR 650 000).
Payment of the financial contribution referred to in paragraph 1 shall be made no later than 30 November 2006 for the first year and no later than 30 June 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 for the following years. 6.
Subject to Article 6, the Cape Verde authorities shall have full discretion regarding the use to which this financial contribution is put. 7.
Article 3 Cooperation on responsible fishing – Annual scientific meeting 1.
The parties hereby undertake to promote responsible fishing in Cape Verde waters on the basis of the principles laid down in the FAO’s Code of conduct for responsible fisheries and the principle of non-discrimination between the different fleets fishing in those waters. 2.
Article 4 Review of fishing opportunities by mutual agreement 1.
The fishing opportunities referred to in Article 1 may be increased by mutual agreement provided that the conclusions of the scientific meeting referred to in Article 3(3) confirm that such an increase will not endanger the sustainable management of Cape Verde’s resources.
In this case the financial contribution referred to in Article 2(1) shall be increased proportionately and pro rata temporis .
However, the total amount of the financial contribution paid by the European Community shall not be more than twice the amount indicated in Article 2(1).
Conversely, if the parties agree to adopt a reduction in the fishing opportunities provided for in Article 1, the financial contribution shall be reduced proportionately and pro rata temporis . 3.
The allocation of the fishing opportunities among different categories of vessels may also be reviewed by mutual agreement between the parties, provided that any changes comply with recommendations made by the scientific meeting referred to in Article 3 regarding the management of stocks liable to be affected by such redistribution.
Article 5 New fishing opportunities 1.
The parties shall carry out exploratory fishing in accordance with parameters that shall be agreed by both parties in an administrative arrangement where appropriate.
Article 6 Suspension and review of the payment of the financial contribution on grounds of force majeure 1.
Where unusual circumstances, other than natural phenomena, prevent fishing activities in the Cape Verde exclusive economic zone (EEZ), the European Community may suspend payment of the financial contribution provided for in Article 2(1), following consultations between the two parties within a period of two months following the request of one of the parties, and provided that the Community has paid in full any amounts due at the time of suspension. 2.
The validity of the licences granted to Community vessels under Article 6 of the Agreement shall be extended by a period equal to the period during which fishing activities were suspended.
Article 7 Promotion of responsible fishing in Cape Verde waters 1.
Eighty percent (80%) of the total amount of the financial contribution fixed in Article 2 shall be allocated each year to the support and implementation of initiatives taken in the context of the sectoral fisheries policy drawn up by the Government of Cape Verde.
Any proposed amendments to the multiannual sectoral programme or of the use of the specific amounts for the initiatives to be carried out in 2007 must be approved by both parties within the Joint Committee. 4.
Each year, Cape Verde shall allocate the share corresponding to the percentage referred to in paragraph 1 with a view to implementing the multiannual programme.
Where the annual evaluation of the progress made in implementing the multiannual sectoral programme so warrants, the European Community may ask for the financial contribution referred to in Article 2(1) of this Protocol to be readjusted with a view to bringing the actual amount of financial resources allocated to implementation of the programme into line with its results.
Article 8 Disputes – suspension of application of the Protocol 1.
Any dispute between the parties over the interpretation of this Protocol or its application shall be the subject of consultations between the parties within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 9 of the Agreement, in a special meeting if necessary. 2.
Without prejudice to Article 9, application of the Protocol may be suspended at the initiative of one party if the dispute between the two parties is deemed to be serious and if the consultations held within the Joint Committee under paragraph 1 have not resulted in an amicable settlement. 3.
Where such settlement is reached, application of the Protocol shall resume and the amount of the financial contribution shall be reduced proportionately and pro rata temporis according to the period during which application of the Protocol was suspended.
Article 10 National law The activities of Community vessels operating in Cape Verde waters under this Protocol shall be governed by the applicable law in the Cape Verde, unless otherwise provided in the Agreement, this Protocol and the Annex and appendices hereto.
Article 11 Review clause The parties may review the provisions of the Protocol, the Annex and the appendices and, where necessary, make amendments mid-term.
Article 12 Repeal The Annex to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and Republic of Cape Verde on fishing off the coast of Cape Verde is hereby repealed and replaced by the Annex to this Protocol.
Article 13 Entry into force 1.
It shall apply with effect from 1 September 2006.
Licences for all vessels shall be issued to shipowners or their agents via the Delegation of the Commission of the European Communities to Cape Verde (“the Delegation”) within 15 days of receipt of all the documents referred to in point 6 by the Ministry responsible for fisheries in Cape Verde. 10.
The licence must be held on board at all times.
The fee shall be EUR 35 per tonne caught within the Cape Verde fishing zone in the case of tuna seiners and surface longliners, and EUR 25 per tonne caught within the Cape Verde fishing zone in the case of pole-and-line tuna vessels. 3.
Licences shall be issued once the following standard amounts have been paid to the competent national authorities: - EUR 3 950 per tuna seiner (of which EUR 100 will go towards financing the observer programme), equivalent to the fees due for 110 tonnes of highly migratory species and associated species caught per year; - EUR 2 900 per surface longliner (of which EUR 100 will go towards financing the observer programme), equivalent to the fees due for 80 tonnes of highly migratory species and associated species caught per year; - EUR 500 per pole-and-line tuna vessel (of which EUR 100 will go towards financing the observer programme), equivalent to the fees due for 16 tonnes of highly migratory species and associated species caught per year. 4.
The final statement of the fees due for year n shall be drawn up by the Commission of the European Communities by 31 July of the year n + 1 at the latest on the basis of the catch declarations made by each shipowner and confirmed by the scientific institutes responsible for verifying catch data in the Member States, such as the Institut de Recherche pour le Développement (IRD), the Instituto Español de Oceanografía (IE), the Instituto de Investigação das Pescas e do Mar (IPIMAR) and the Instituto Nacional de Desenvolvimento das Pescas (INDP) of Cape Verde via the Delegation. 5.
Any additional payments shall be made by the shipowners to the competent Cape Verde authorities by 30 September of the following year at the latest, into the account referred to in point 7 of Section 1 of this Chapter. 7.
However, if the amount of the final statement is lower than the advance referred to in point 3 of this Section, the resulting balance shall not be reimbursable to the shipowner.
CHAPTER II – FISHING ZONES 1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the duration of a trip by a Community vessel shall be defined as follows: - either the period elapsing between entering and leaving the Cape Verde fishing zone; - or the period elapsing between entering the Cape Verde fishing zone and a transhipment; - or the period elapsing between entering the Cape Verde fishing zone and a landing in Cape Verde. 2.
The original of the declarations shall be transmitted on a physical medium to the Ministry responsible for fisheries in Cape Verde within 30 days following the end of the last trip made during the period.
Landings: Community tuna vessels which opt to land their catches in a Cape Verde port shall benefit from a reduction on the fee indicated in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of Chapter 1 of the Annex of EUR 5.00 per tonne landed.
An additional reduction of EUR 5 per tonne shall be granted where fisheries products are sold to a Cape Verde processing factory.
CHAPTER V – EMBARKING SEAMEN 1.
Owners of tuna vessels and surface longliners shall employ ACP nationals, including Cape Verde nationals, subject to the following conditions and limits: - for the fleet of tuna seiners, at least six ACP seamen shall be signed on during the tuna-fishing season in the Cape Verde fishing zone, - for the fleet of pole-and-line tuna vessels, at least three ACP seamen shall be signed on during the tuna-fishing season in the Cape Verde fishing zone, - for the fleet of surface longliners, at least four ACP seamen shall be signed on during the fishing season in the Cape Verde fishing zone, 2.
Shipowners shall endeavour to take on board additional Cape Verde seamen. 3.
Where contracts have been signed with Cape Verde nationals, in accordance with point 1 of this Article, the shipowner or agent shall inform the competent Cape Verde authorities of the names of the local seamen taken on board the vessel concerned, mentioning their position in the crew. 5.
CHAPTER VII – OBSERVERS 1.
The conditions under which observers are taken on board shall be agreed between shipowners or their agents and the competent RFO. 4.
CHAPTER VIII – MONITORING 1.
Satellite monitoring 4.1 All Community vessels fishing under this Agreement shall be subject to satellite monitoring in line with provisions to be adopted in the first year of the Protocol.
Settlement of boarding 8.1.
Transhipment 9.1 All Community vessels wishing to tranship catches in Cape Verde waters shall do so within Cape Verde ports. 9.2.
Licence application form 2.
Address of shipowner: 3.
Name of shipowner’s representative or local agent: 4.
Address of shipowner’s representative or local agent: 5.
Name of vessel: 7.
Registration No: 8.
Flag country: 10.
Port of registration: 11.
Port of fitting out: 12.
Hold capacity: 17.
Fishing gear: 20.
Communications equipment: 22.
Fishing zones: 27.
Special conditions: 30.
Other activities of the applicant in Cape Verde: Opinion of the Directorate-General for Fisheries: Comments of the Ministry for Fisheries, Agriculture and Rural Affairs: Appendix 2 ICCAT LOGBOOK FOR TUNA FISHERY | Longline Live bait Purse seine Trawl Outros (Others) | Flag country: ……………………………………………………………………........................... | Capacity – (M.T.): ………………………………………………………………........ | Registration No: ………………………………………………………………................................... | Captain: ……………………………………………………….... | Shipowner: ………………………………………………………….......................................... | No of crew: ….…………………………………………………........................ | Address: ………………………………………………………………………….... | Reporting date: ………………………………………………...... | (Reported by): ………………………………………………................................. | No of days at sea: | No of fishing days: No of sets made: | Trip number: | Date | Sector | Surface water temp (ºC) | Fishing effort No of hooks used | Capturas (Catches) | Isco usado na pesca (Bait used) | 1 – Use one sheet per month, and one line per day. | 3 – “Day” refers to the day you set the line. | 5 - The last line (landing weight) should be completed only at the end of the trip.
Actual weight at the time of unloading should be recorded. | 2 - At the end of each trip, forward a copy of the log to your correspondent or to the ICCAT, Calle Corazón de María, 8, 28002 Madrid, Spain. | 4 - Fishing area refers to the position of the boat.
Be sure to record N/S and E/W.. | 6 - All information reported herein will be kept strictly confidential. | Protocol (VMS) Provisions applicable to satellite monitoring of Community fishing vessels operating in the Cape Verde EEZ 1.
The Cape Verde authorities shall transmit this information in electronic form, expressed in decimal degrees (WGS 84). 3.
The parties shall exchange information on X.25 addresses and the specifications for electronic data transmission between their Control Centres in accordance with 5 to 7.
The messages specified at 5 shall be transmitted electronically in X.25 format, without any further protocol.
They shall be communicated in real time in the format set out in Table II. 7.
Where the continuous satellite monitoring equipment installed on board a fishing vessel develops a technical fault or breaks down, the master of the vessel shall transmit the information specified at 5 to the Control Centre of the flag State and the Cape Verde FMC in good time.
This global position report shall include the position reports as recorded by the master of the vessel on a three-hourly basis in accordance with the requirements laid down in point 5.
After this deadline, the vessel in question must leave the Cape Verde EEZ. 8.
If the Cape Verde FMC establishes that the flag State is not transmitting the information specified in point 5, the competent European Commission departments shall be informed immediately. 10.
Any dispute over the interpretation or application of these provisions shall be the subject of consultation between the parties within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 9 of the Agreement. 14.
COMMUNICATION OF VMS MESSAGES TO CAPE VERDE POSITION REPORT Data Element | Code | Mandatory/Optional | Comments | Start record | SR | O | System detail – indicates start of record | Recipient | AD | O | Message detail – recipient.
Alpha 3 ISO country code | From | FR | O | Message detail – sender.
The new Protocol covers the period from 1 September 2006 to 30 August 2011.
The main elements of the new Protocol are: - Fishing opportunities : 25 freezer tuna seiners, 11 pole-and-line tuna vessels and 48 surface longliners (a reduction of 28% against the previous Protocol) allocated as follows (based on the method of allocating the fishing opportunities in the previous Protocol, applications by the Member States and the historical rates of utilisation by Member State and by category), i.e.: ( tuna seiners: France: 13, Spain: 12 ( pole-and-line tuna vessels: France: 4, Spain: 7 ( surface longliners: Spain: 41, Portugal: 7 - Annual reference tonnage : 5000 tonnes of tuna (29% reduction vis-à-vis the previous Protocol) - Annual financial contribution : EUR 385 000 - Advances and fees payable by shipowners : EUR 35 for seiners and surface longliners (against EUR 25 previously) per tonne of tuna caught in the Cape Verde fishing zone.
Total other management expenditure (XX 01 02 11) | 3.
Other expenditure of an administrative nature (specify including reference to budget line) | Total administrative expenditure, other than human resources and associated costs (NOT included in reference amount) | 0.0215 | 0.0215 | 0.0215 | 0.0215 | 0.0215 | 0.1075 | [1] OJ L 73, 15.3.2001, p. 8. [2] Differentiated appropriations. [3] Non-differentiated appropriations. [4] Expenditure that does not fall under Chapter 11 01 01 of the Title 11 concerned. [5] Expenditure within Article xx 01 04 of Title xx. [6] Expenditure within chapter 11 01 other than articles 11 01 04. [7] See points 19 and 24 of the Interinstitutional Agreement. [8] As described under Section 5.3. [9] Cost of which is NOT covered by the reference amount. [10] Cost of which is NOT covered by the reference amount. [11] Cost of which is included within the reference amount. [12] Reference should be made to the specific legislative statement for the Executive Agency/Agencies concerned. [13] Specify the type of committee and the group to which it belongs.
