Amendment 2 Recital 2 (2) Since then, however, although the figures for intra-Community movements of tax-paid products remain relatively low, more and more traders and private individuals are trying to interpret Articles 7 to 10 of Directive 92/12/EEC in such a way as to legitimise trade practices involving payment of excise duty in the Member State where the products are acquired.
On the basis of the conclusions of a further survey of the national administrations and traders involved, launched in January 2002, the Commission drew up a report on the application of Articles 7 to 10 of Directive 92/12/EEC. (2) Since then, however, although the figures for intra-Community movements of tax-paid products remain relatively low, more and more traders have tended to interpret Articles 7 to 10 of Directive 92/12/EEC in such a way as to legitimise trade practices involving payment of excise duty in the Member State where the products are acquired, and a growing number of private individuals are buying products in another Member State for their personal use and legitimately paying excise duty for them in the Member State of purchase.
On the basis of the conclusions of a further survey of the national administrations and traders involved, launched in January 2002, the Commission drew up a report on the application of Articles 7 to 10 of Directive 92/12/EEC.
Amendment 3 Recital 6 (6) Article 7 distinguishes different situations in which excisable products already released for circulation in one Member State are held for commercial purposes in another, but does not clearly identify the person from whom excise duty is due in the Member State of destination in each of these situations.
An unambiguous definition should therefore be given of the person from whom excise duty is due and the requirements to be met in the Member State of destination in each of the situations referred to. (6) Article 7 distinguishes different situations in which excisable products already released for circulation in one Member State are held for commercial purposes in another, but does not clearly identify the person from whom excise duty is due in the Member State of destination in each of these situations.
Amendment 5 Recital 13 (13) The provision allowing Member States to lay down guide levels to establish whether products are held for commercial purposes or for the personal use of private individuals should be deleted.
Amendment 7 Αrticle 1, point 3, point β Article 9, paragraph 2, introductory wording (Directive 92/12/EEC) 2.
To determine whether the products referred to in Article 8 are intended for commercial purposes, Member States shall take account of the following: 2.
The products referred to in Article 8 shall be deemed to have been purchased by private individuals for personal use unless it can be proven that they are intended for commercial purposes, taking account of the following: [1] Not yet published in OJ. [2] OJ L 76, 23.3.1992, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2004/106/EC (OJ L 359, 4.12.2004, p. 30). --------------------------------------------------
