INTRODUCTION Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is a concept whereby companies integrate social and environmental concerns in their business operations and in their interaction with their stakeholders on a voluntary basis[1].
This is why the Commission called for a fresh start to the Lisbon agenda by launching a Partnership for Growth and Jobs in February 2005 and renewing its Sustainable Development Strategy in December 2005.
Enterprises, as the motor for economic growth, job creation, and innovation, are key actors in delivering the Lisbon and sustainable development objectives.
The European Parliament has made valuable contributions to the debate on CSR, notably in its resolutions of 2002[6] and 2003[7].
Social dialogue, especially at the sectoral level, has been an effective means for promoting CSR initiatives, and European Works Councils have also played a constructive role in the development of best practice on CSR.
The role of employees, their representatives and their trade unions in the development and implementation of CSR practices should be further enhanced.
The Commission expects the Alliance to have a significant impact on the attitude of European enterprises to CSR and on their positive engagement with social and environmental issues.
Moreover, Member States have at their disposal a broad range of instruments to encourage CSR.
The Commission is also committed to using trade incentives as a means of encouraging respect for the main international human/labour rights, environmental protection and governance principles, in particular through the new EU “Generalised System of Preferences Plus” that entered into force on 1 January 2006.
Further promoting CSR is central to the new partnership for "growth and jobs" as well as for implementing sustainable development objectives.
STRIVING FOR A SUSTAINABLE MARKET ECONOMY A strong business commitment to CSR as well as an overall supportive role of public authorities towards CSR has become particularly important over the last 15 years as regard its contribution to the respect for human rights and the rule of law as well as the sustainable functioning of democracy and market economy, be it on a local, national, European or global scale.
The Alliance reaffirms that, building on existing initiatives, there is a need to further promote multi-disciplinary research on CSR at European level, in particular on its impact on competitiveness and sustainable development.
Closer integration with universities and scientific experts as well as continuous dialogue and cooperation with civil society are essential in this respect.
The Alliance will encourage the integration of CSR and sustainable development related topics in traditional courses, in the curricula of future managers and graduate students, in executive education and in other educational institutions.
The Alliance supports the organisation of review meetings with all stakeholders, starting in 2006, to take stock of progress made in relation to the recommendations of the European Multi-stakeholder Forum on CSR and of other trends, developments and innovations in CSR.
The Alliance is formed to make it happen. [1] COM(2001) 366. [2] COM(2006) 30. [3] COM(2005) 24. [4] COM(2005) 33. [5] COM(2005) 658. [6] P5_TA(2002)0278. [7] P5_TA(2003)0200. [8] COM(2001) 366. [9] COM(2002) 347. [10] COM(2005) 489.
