While organised crime and terrorism, have long been identified as key threats for the European security environment (for instance, in the European Security Strategy of 12 December 2003), the responsibility of the Union extends to improving the prevention of, and the fight against crime in general.
Article 29 of the Treaty on European Union contains a clear mandate for the Union to provide citizens with a high level of security, by preventing and combating crime, organised or otherwise, in particular terrorism, trafficking in persons and offences against children, illicit drug trafficking and illicit arms trafficking, corruption and fraud through closer cooperation between police forces, customs authorities and other competent authorities.
The work carried out under the so-called Vienna action plan[2] and the orientations given by the Tampere European Council of 1999 has been successful.
On the basis of The Hague Programme adopted by the European Council in November 2004, and with a view to the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, prevention of and fight against terrorism and other forms of crime on a European level will need to be further reinforced and extended.
On the one hand, law enforcement, police cooperation and crime prevention in general are subject to Title VI of the Treaty on European Union (Articles 29-42).
The second legal instrument will deal with prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorist attacks, and will be based on Article 308 of the Treaty establishing the European Community[3].
In particular, reference can be made here to the four Commission Communications on terrorism of 20 October 2004[4], to the Communications on exchange of information and cooperation on terrorist offences[5], on enhancing police and customs cooperation in the EU[6], and towards enhancing access to information by law enforcement agencies[7].
European added-value The framework programme Security and Safeguarding Liberties will add value to existing national interventions in this field by acting as a catalyst: EU funded cooperation raises awareness of shared issues and values between Member States, thus facilitating the emergence of common approaches, including legislation in these fields.
Cooperation with third countries will be duly taken into account under Heading 4 of the proposed financial framework, through the implementation of external aid instruments presented by the Commission in September 2004.
RATIONALISATION AND SIMPLIFICATION 3.1.
In this vein, the programme Prevention of and Fight against Crime will replace the AGIS programme from 2007 on.
Common management arrangements The purpose of establishing a framework programme in this area is to simplify and rationalise the framework both in financial, legal and management terms, to streamline budget structure, to increase coherence and consistency among programmes and to avoid duplication of efforts.
FINANCIAL RESOURCES The overall amount foreseen for the framework programme Security and Protection of Liberties is 745 million euro for the period 2007-2013 (in current prices).
Within the reference amount, EUR 10 million are added for administrative expenditure.
The framework programme is composed of two aligned and complementary legal instruments which provide a sound legal and financial framework and the necessary flexibility to cope with new challenges ahead.
ANNEX Establishing a framework programme on Security and Safeguarding Liberties for the period 2007-2013 Complementarity with agencies and other instruments in the areaof Freedom, Security and Justice Several complementary instruments are forecast under the Financial Perspectives to contribute to the achievement of the policy objectives set in the area of Justice, Freedom and Security : - the framework programmes which will replace the multitude of budget lines that the Commission currently manages in this field ; - community financing of agencies and Community or Union bodies ; - development and management of related large scale information systems.
The following agencies or bodies related to the area of the above framework programme are to be covered under the new financial perspectives : - The European Police College (CEPOL), which is expected to be transformed into a European Union body according to the Proposal for a Council decision submitted by the Commission on 1 October 2004 - COM(2004) 623.
They must, however, be included as part of the expenditure dedicated to JLS policy in Heading 3 of the future Community financial framework.
EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 1.
Structuring its proposals around three general and policy-led programmes (“Solidarity and management of migration flows”, “Fundamental Rights and Justice”, “Security and safeguarding freedoms”), the Commission sets out a clear framework for the development of financial interventions of the Community in support of the three objectives of Justice, Freedom and Security. 2.
In its Declaration on solidarity against terrorism of 25 March 2004, the European Council held that further action was needed to enhance the capability of the Union and its Member States to deal with the consequences of terrorist attacks and to alleviate the consequences of attacks on the civilian population.
The Council referred to these Communications in its Conclusions on Prevention, Preparedness and Response to Terrorist attacks which were adopted on 2nd December 2004 including the EU Solidarity Programme on the Consequences of terrorist threats and attacks.
Moreover, The Hague Programme in its point 2.4 laid down clearly that “the European Council calls for the Council and the Commission to set up within their existing structures, while fully respecting national competences, integrated and coordinated EU crisis management arrangements for crises with cross-border effects within the EU, to be established at the latest by 1 July 2006”. 2.2.
will provide means for EU wide projects initiated and managed by the Commission, allow for co-funding of transnational projects and also for projects within Member States (national projects), to further stimulate innovations with a view to transferring the gained experience to the transnational and/or EU level.
On prevention and preparedness to terrorist attacks, the specific programme will aim at: - stimulating, promoting, and supporting risk and threat assessments on critical infrastructure, including evaluations on site, to identify possible targets of terrorist attacks and possible needs for upgrading their security, - promoting and supporting the development of common security standards, and an exchange of know-how and experience on protection of critical infrastructure, - promoting and supporting EU wide co-ordination and cooperation on critical infrastructure protection.
On consequence management regarding terrorist attacks, the specific programme will aim at: - stimulating, promoting and supporting exchange of know-how, experience and technology on the potential consequences of terrorist attacks, - stimulating, promoting and supporting the development of relevant methodology and contingency plans, and - ensuring real-time input of specific expertise on terrorism matters within overall crisis management, rapid alert and civil protection mechanisms.
First, the specific programme is complemented by a second instrument under the general programme Security and Safeguarding Liberties, the specific programme Prevention of and Fight against Crime , which focuses on law enforcement and crime prevention in the sense of Title VI of the Treaty on European Union.
Legal basis In the absence of a specific provision, Article 308 of the Treaty establishing the European Community is the appropriate legal basis not only for civil protection, but also for related measures on prevention, preparedness and consequence management.
Under the current Treaties, the procedure for the adoption of legal instruments in this area differs considerably from that on police and law enforcement cooperation (the latter being subject to Title VI of the Treaty on European Union).
Subsidiarity and proportionality The proposal respects the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty establishing the European Community and its accompanying Protocol.
As regards proportionality, the proposal has been designed to maximise simplification in terms not only of the form of the action – the definitions of actions in the legislative text are kept as generic as possible – but also in terms of the administrative and financial requirements that will apply to their implementation.
BUDGETARY IMPLICATIONS The overall amount foreseen for the general programme Security and Protection of Liberties is 745 million euro for the period 2007-2013 (in current prices).
The intention is to complement, simplify and rationalise the existing instruments and to ensure the necessary flexibility to face new objectives and to respond in a smooth way to the new legal framework that will be established once the Constitutional Treaty enters into force. 2005/0034 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION Establishing the specific Programme “Prevention, Preparedness and Consequence Management of Terrorism”, for the Period 2007-2013 General Programme “Security and Safeguarding Liberties” THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 308 thereof, and to the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, and in particular Article 203 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission[18], Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament[19], Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee[20], Having regard to the opinion of the Committee of the Regions[21], Whereas: (1) Prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism are essential aspects of the objective of maintaining and developing the Union as an area of freedom, security and justice as provided for in Article 2, fourth indent, of the Treaty on European Union. (2) The Community must take the necessary measures to prevent terrorists from attacking the values of democracy, the rule of law, open society and the freedom of our citizens and societies, and to limit the consequences of any attack wherever possible. (3) The Hague Programme set up by the European Council in November 2004[22], has called for integrated and coordinated EU crisis-management arrangements for crises with cross-border effects within the EU. (4) The revised European Union Plan of Action on Combating Terrorism as adopted by the European Council of 17-18 June 2004[23], identified as priority issues, among others, the prevention and consequence management of terrorist attacks, and the protection of critical infrastructures. (5) On 2 December 2004, the Council adopted the revised European Union Solidarity Programme on the Consequences of Terrorist Threats and Attacks[24], highlighting the importance of risk and threat assessments, protection of critical infrastructure, mechanisms for the detection and identification of terrorist threats, and the political and operational preparedness and capability for consequence management. (6) The Community mechanism to facilitate reinforced cooperation in civil protection assistance interventions[25], established by Council Decision 2001/792/EC, Euratom of 23 October 2001, addresses immediate response to all major emergencies, but has not been designed specifically for prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorist attacks. (7) In the interest of efficacy, cost-efficiency and transparency, the specific efforts on prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism should be streamlined and financed by one single programme. (8) With regard to legal certainty and coherence, and to the complementarity with other financial programmes, the terms “prevention and preparedness measures”, “crisis and consequence management” and “critical infrastructure” should be defined. (9) Commission actions, together with transnational projects where appropriate, are essential to achieve an integrated and coordinated EU approach.
In addition, it is useful and appropriate to support projects within Member States to the extent that they can provide useful experience and knowledge for further actions at Community level, in particular inspections and risk and threat assessments. (10) It is also appropriate to provide for third countries and international organisations to participate in transnational projects. (11) Complementarity needs to be ensured with other Community and Union programmes such as the EU Solidarity Fund and the Response and Preparedness Instrument for major emergencies, the Community mechanism to facilitate reinforced cooperation in civil protection assistance interventions, the Research %amp% Development Framework Programme and the structural funds. (12) Since the objectives of this programme cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore, by reason of the scale or impact of the initiative, be better achieved at the Community level, the Community may adopt measures in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
In accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that Article, this Decision does not go beyond what is necessary to achieve those objectives. (13) The expenditure of the programme should be compatible with the ceiling under Heading 3 of the financial perspective.
The decision should, therefore, be limited to the generic definition of envisaged actions and their respective administrative and financial arrangements. (14) Appropriate measures should also be taken to prevent irregularities and fraud and the necessary steps should be taken to recover funds lost, wrongly paid or incorrectly used in accordance with Council Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 of 18 December 1995 on the protection of the Communities’ financial interests,[26] and (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96 of 11 November 1996 concerning on-the-spot checks and inspections carried out by the Commission.[27] (15) Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities[28] and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002[29], which safeguard the Community’s financial interests, have to be applied taking into account the principles of simplicity and consistency in the choice of budgetary instruments, a limitation on the number of cases where the Commission retains direct responsibility for their implementation and management, and the required proportionality between the amount of resources and the administrative burden related to their use. (16) In accordance with Article 2 of Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission,[30] measures for the implementation of this Decision should be adopted by use of the advisory procedure provided for in Article 3 of that Decision.
Article 2 Definitions For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: 1. “prevention and preparedness” refers to measures aiming to prevent and/or reduce the risk of a terrorist attack and/or its consequences, particularly through risk and threat assessments, inspections and development of common standards on technology and methodology; 2. “consequence management” refers to measures limiting the mid-term consequences of terrorist attacks which are necessary to safeguard the European Union as an area of Freedom, Security and Justice; 3. “critical infrastructure” refers to physical resources, services, communication facilities, networks and/or assets the disruption or destruction of which would have a serious impact on the health, safety, security or economic well-being of citizens or of the effective functioning of the European Union or its Member States’ governments.
Article 3 General objectives of the programme 1.
Article 4 Specific objectives 1.
Within the general objectives, and unless covered by other specific legal instruments, the programme shall stimulate, promote and develop measures on prevention, preparedness and consequence management. 2.
stimulating, promoting, and supporting risk and threat assessments on critical infrastructure, including evaluations on site, to identify possible targets of terrorist attacks and possible needs for upgrading their security, 5.
promoting and supporting the development of common security standards, and an exchange of know-how and experience on protection of critical infrastructure, 6.
stimulating, promoting and supporting exchange of know-how, experience and technology on the potential consequences of terrorist attacks, 8.
ensuring real-time input of specific expertise on terrorism matters within overall crisis management, rapid alert and civil protection mechanisms.
Article 5 Eligible Actions 1.
With a view to pursuing the general and specific objectives set out in Articles 3 and 4, the programme shall provide financial support for the following types of action: 10.
projects initiated and managed by the Commission with a European dimension; 11.
transnational projects, which must involve partners in at least two Member States, or at least one Member State and an applicant country; 12.
national projects within Member States, which 13.
prepare transnational projects and/or Community actions (“starter measures”), 14.
complement transnational projects and/or Community actions (“complementary measures”), 15.
contribute otherwise considerably to protecting the Union and its citizens from terrorist attacks. 2.
In particular, financial support may be provided for 17.
training, exchange of staff and experts, and 21.
Article 6 Access to the Programme 1.
Applications for projects may be presented by bodies and organisations with legal personality established in the Member States. 2.
Article 7 Types of intervention 1.
Community financial support may take the following legal forms: 22.
Article 8 Implementing measures 1.
The Commission shall implement the Community financial support in accordance with the Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) N° 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002, hereinafter referred to as “Financial Regulation”. 2.
To implement the programme, the Commission shall, within the limits of the general objectives defined in Article 3, adopt an annual work programme specifying its specific objectives, thematic priorities, a description of accompanying measures envisaged in article 7(3) and if necessary a list of other actions. 3.
The annual work programme shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 9(2). 4.
conformity with the annual work programme, the general objectives as specified in Article 3 and measures taken in the different domains as specified in Articles 4 and 5; 25.
impact of the expected results on the general objectives defined in Article 3 and on measures taken in the different domains as specified in Articles 4 and 5.
Article 9 Committee 1.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 3 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply.3.
Article 10 Complementarity 1.
The programme may share resources with other Community and Union instruments, in particular the programme Prevention of and Fight against Crime, in order to implement actions meeting the objectives of both the programme and other Community/Union instruments. 3.
The beneficiaries of the programme shall provide the Commission with information about funding received from the Community budget and from other sources, as well as information about ongoing applications for funding.
Article 11 Budgetary Resources The budgetary resources allocated to the actions provided for in this programme shall be entered in the annual appropriations of the general budget of the European Union.
Article 12 Monitoring 1.
Without prejudice to the audits carried out by the Court of Auditors in liaison with the competent national audit bodies or departments pursuant to Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, or any inspection carried out pursuant to Article 279(c) of that Treaty, officials and other staff of the Commission may carry out on-the-spot checks, including sample checks, on actions financed under the programme. 3.
For a period of five years following the last payment in respect of any action, the beneficiary of the Community financial support shall keep available for the Commission all the supporting documents regarding expenditure on the action. 5.
On the basis of the results of the reports and sample checks referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, the Commission shall, if necessary, adjust the scale or the conditions of allocation of the financial support originally approved and also the timetable for payments. 6.
The Commission shall take every other step necessary to verify that the actions financed are carried out properly and in compliance with the provisions of this Decision and the Financial Regulation.
Article 13 Protection of Community financial interests 1.
The Commission shall ensure that, when actions financed under the present Decision are implemented, the financial interests of the Community are protected by the application of preventive measures against fraud, corruption and any other illegal activities, by effective checks and by the recovery of the amounts unduly paid and, if irregularities are detected, by effective, proportional and dissuasive penalties, in accordance with Council Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 and (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96, and with Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 2.
For the Community actions financed under the programme, Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 and Regulation (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96 shall apply to any infringement of a provision of Community law, including infringements of a contractual obligation stipulated on the basis of the programme, resulting from an act or omission by an economic operator, which has, or would have, the effect of prejudicing the general budget of the European Communities or budgets managed by them, by an unjustified item of expenditure. 3.
The Commission shall reduce, suspend or recover the amount of financial support granted for an action if it finds irregularities, including non-compliance with the provisions of this Decision or the individual decision or the contract or agreement granting the financial support in question, or if it transpires that, without Commission approval having being sought, the action has been subjected to a change which conflicts with the nature or implementing conditions of the project. 4.
Article 14 Evaluation 1.
a Communication on the continuation of this programme no later than 31 December 2010; 30.
an ex-post evaluation report no later than 31 March 2015.
Article 15 Entry into force This Decision shall take effect from the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 1.
Structuring its proposals around three general and policy-led programmes (“Solidarity and management of migration flows”, “Fundamental Rights and Justice”, “Security and safeguarding freedoms”), the Commission sets out a clear framework for the development of financial interventions of the Community in support of the three objectives of Justice, Freedom and Security. 2.
At the same time, the Union’s policy on preventing and combating forms of crime other than terrorism will have to enter into a more operational phase, while the ongoing development of legislation remains important in this area. 2.2.
The way forward The proposed response to these challenges is a comprehensive general programme on Security and Safeguarding Liberties, which integrates the possibilities for funding under the existing AGIS programme with additional elements and priorities.
The specific programme on Prevention of and Fight against Crime, in particular, aims at contributing to a high level of security for citizens by preventing and combating crime, organised or otherwise, in particular terrorism, trafficking in persons and offences against children, illicit drug trafficking and illicit arms trafficking, corruption and fraud.
Second, complementarity is to be ensured with the general programmes on Fundamental Rights and Justice , and on Solidarity and management of migration flows, particularly along the following lines: - while the emphasis of the enclosed proposal is on law enforcement, in the sense of cooperation between police and other non-judicial law enforcement agencies, the criminal justice strand of Fundamental Rights and Justice focuses on the judiciary; - regarding assistance to victims, the specific programme Prevention of and Fight against Crime focuses on their protection from criminal threats, whereas the above mentioned instruments under the general programme Fundamental Rights and Justice deal with general assistance to victims at the judicial, social and/or administrative level; - regarding illegal immigration, the external borders fund within the general programme on Solidarity and management of migration flows deals with exchange of specific intelligence, while the specific programme on Prevention of and Fight against Crime deals with exchange of information among law enforcement agencies.
This justifies strengthening and clarifying the framework for projects initiated and/or managed by the Commission. 4.
Legal Basis Article 30 of the Treaty on European Union provides the scope for common action in the field of police cooperation and cooperation of other competent authorities in relation to the prevention, detection and investigation of criminal offences, including cooperation of national authorities with Europol (Article 30, second paragraph).
Although judicial cooperation is not a particular objective of this programme, Article 31 of the Treaty on European Union should also be included here, since financial interventions might have to cover certain related actions dealing with cooperation e.g.
Actions defined within the programme The following different types of action are envisaged: - projects with a European dimension initiated and managed by the Commission, inter alia coordination mechanisms and networks, analytical activities including studies and activities aiming at developing solutions which are specifically related to concrete policy projects, training, exchange of staff; - transnational projects initiated and managed by at least two Member States (or one Member State and an applicant country) under the conditions set out in the annual work programmes; - national projects within Member States under the conditions set out below and further conditions set out in the annual work programmes; - operating grants to non-governmental organisations pursuing, on a non-profit basis, objectives with a European dimension, under the conditions set out in the annual work programmes.
Subsidiarity and Proportionality The proposal respects the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty establishing the European Community and its accompanying Protocol.
As regards proportionality, the proposal has been designed to maximise simplification in terms not only of the form of the action – the definitions of actions in the legislative text are kept as generic as possible – but also in terms of the administrative and financial requirements that will apply to their implementation.
The proposed new instrument follows the path that was determined by the Commission in what concerns the political and financial challenges as from 2007 on.
BUDGETARY IMPLICATIONS The overall amount foreseen for the general programme Security and Protection of Liberties is 745 million euro for the period 2007-2013 (in current prices).
Within this envelope, 602.6 million euro are foreseen for the programme Prevention of and Fight against Crime. 2005/0035 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION Establishing the specific Programme “Prevention of and Fight against Crime” for the Period 2007-2013, General Programme “Security and Safeguarding Liberties” THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty on European Union, and in particular Articles 30, 31 and 34(2)(c) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission[37], Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament[38], Whereas: (1) The Union’s objective of providing citizens with a high level of safety within an area of freedom, security and justice shall be achieved, as provided for in the fourth indent of Article 2, and in Article 29 of the Treaty on European Union, by preventing and combating crime, organised or otherwise. (2) To protect the freedom and security of our citizens and society from criminal activities, the Union must take the necessary measures to prevent, detect, investigate, and prosecute all forms of crime efficiently and effectively, most particularly in cases with a trans-border element. (3) Building on the conclusions of the Tampere European Council of October 1999[39], the European Council has reaffirmed the priority of developing the area of freedom, security and justice – and particularly of protecting citizens from various criminal activities through the prevention of and fight against crime– by The Hague programme of November 2004[40], the declarations on terrorism of September 2001 and March 2004[41] and the European Drugs strategy in December 2004[42]. (4) The framework programme on police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters (AGIS) established by Council Decision 2002/630/JHA of 22 July 2002[43] has contributed considerably to strengthening cooperation between police and other law enforcement agencies and the judiciary in the Member States and to improving mutual understanding and mutual trust of their police, judicial, legal and administrative systems. (5) It is necessary and appropriate to extend the possibilities for funding of measures aiming at the prevention of and the fight against crime, and to review the modalities in the interest of efficacy, cost-efficiency and transparency. (6) Commission actions and transnational projects remain important to achieve closer and better cooperation and coordination among Member States.
In addition, it is useful and appropriate to support projects within Member States to the extent that they can provide useful experience and know-how for further actions on Union level. (7) As crime crosses borders, it is appropriate to allow third countries and international organisations to participate in transnational projects. (8) Complementarity needs to be ensured regarding other Union and Community programmes, such as the Research %amp% Development Framework Programme, the European Union Solidarity Fund, the Response and Preparedness Instrument for major emergencies and the Structural Funds. (9) Since the objectives of the action to be taken, particularly the prevention of and the fight against organised and transborder crime, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore, by reason of the scale or impact of the initiative, be better achieved at the Union level, the Union may adopt measures in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set up in Article 5 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
In accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that Article, this Decision does not go beyond what is necessary to achieve those objectives. (10) In accordance with Article 41(3) of the Treaty on European Union, it is necessary and appropriate to finance the operating expenditure under Title VI by the Community budget. (11) The expenditure of the programme should be compatible with the ceiling under Heading 3 of the financial perspective.
It is necessary to foresee flexibility in the definition of the programme to allow for eventual adjustments in any envisaged actions, in order to respond to the evolution of needs in the course of the period 2007-2013.
Article 2 General objectives of the programme 1.
This programme shall contribute to a high level of security for citizens by preventing and combating crime, organised or otherwise, in particular terrorism, trafficking in persons and offences against children, illicit drug trafficking and illicit arms trafficking, corruption and fraud. 2.
Article 3 Themes and specific objectives 1.
law enforcement 32.
Article 4 Eligible actions 1.
With a view to pursuing the general and specific objectives set out in Articles 2 and 3, the programme shall provide financial support for the following types of actions: 37.
National projects within Member States, which 40.
Article 5 Access to the Programme 1.
Article 6 Types of intervention 1.
Article 7 Implementing measures 1.
The Commission shall implement the Union financial support in accordance with the Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) N° 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002, hereinafter referred to as “Financial Regulation”. 2.
To implement the programme, the Commission shall, within the limits of the general objectives defined in Article 2, adopt an annual work programme specifying its specific objectives, thematic priorities, a description of accompanying measures envisaged in Article 6(3) and if necessary a list of other actions. 3.
The annual work programme shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 9. 4.
conformity with the annual work programme, the general objectives as specified in Article 2 and measures taken in the different domains as specified in Articles 3 and 4; 48.
impact of the expected results on the general objectives defined in Article 2 and on measures taken in the different domains as specified in Articles 3 and 4. 5.
Article 8 Committee 1.
Article 9 Advisory Procedure 1.
Article 10 Complementarity 1.
The programme may share resources with other Union and Community instruments, in particular the programme Prevention, Preparedness and Consequence Management of Terrorism, in order to implement actions meeting the objectives of both the programme and the other Union/Community instrument(s). 3.
Article 11 Budgetary Resources The budgetary resources allocated to the actions provided for in this programme shall be entered in the annual appropriations of the general budget of the European Union.
Article 12 Monitoring 1.
Without prejudice to the audits carried out by the Court of Auditors in liaison with the competent national audit bodies or departments pursuant to Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, or any inspection carried out pursuant to Article 279(c) of that Treaty, officials and other staff of the Commission may carry out on-the-spot checks, including sample checks, on actions financed under the programme. 3.
For a period of five years following the last payment in respect of any action, the beneficiary of financial support shall keep available for the Commission all the supporting documents regarding expenditure on the action. 5.
On the basis of the results of the reports and sample checks referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, the Commission shall, if necessary, adjust the scale or the conditions of allocation of the financial support originally approved and also the timetable for payments. 6.
The Commission shall take every other step necessary to verify that the actions financed are carried out properly and in compliance with the provisions of this Decision and the Financial Regulation.
Article 13 Protection of Community financial interests 1.
The Commission shall ensure that, when actions financed under the present Decision are implemented, the financial interests of the Community are protected by the application of preventive measures against fraud, corruption and any other illegal activities, by effective checks and by the recovery of the amounts unduly paid and, if irregularities are detected, by effective, proportional and dissuasive penalties, in accordance with Council Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 and (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96, and with Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 2.
For the Union actions financed under the programme, Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 and Regulation (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96 shall apply to any infringement of a provision of Community law, including infringements of a contractual obligation stipulated on the basis of the programme, resulting from an act or omission by an economic operator, which has, or would have, the effect of prejudicing the general budget of the European Union or budgets managed by them, by an unjustified item of expenditure. 3.
The Commission shall reduce, suspend or recover the amount of financial support granted for an action if it finds irregularities, including non-compliance with the provisions of this Decision or the individual decision or the contract or agreement granting the financial support in question, or if it transpires that, without Commission approval having been sought, the action has been subjected to a change which conflicts with the nature or implementing conditions of the project. 4.
Article 14 Evaluation 1.
an interim evaluation report on the results obtained and the qualitative and quantitative aspects of the implementation of this programme no later than 31 March 2010; 57.
a Communication on the continuation of the programme no later than 31 December 2010; 58.
an ex-post evaluation report no later than 31 March 2015.
Article 15 Transitional Provisions 1.
This Decision shall, from 1 January 2007, replace the corresponding provisions of the Decision 2002/630/JHA establishing a framework programme on police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters (AGIS)[54]. 2.
Actions started before 31 December 2006 pursuant to Decision 2002/630/JHA shall continue to be governed, until their completion, by this Decision.
Article 16 Entry into force This Decision shall take effect from the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
