Revised proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on public passenger transport services by rail and by road /* COM/2005/0319 final - COD 2000/0212 */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 20.7.2005 COM(2005) 319 final 2000/0212 (COD) Revised proposal for a REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on public passenger transport services by rail and by road EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM Introduction Since the second half of the 20th century, inland public carriers of passengers and freight, particularly the railways, have had to maintain services which are not commercially viable and have had their tariff policies strictly controlled.
This legislative framework was last amended in 1991 in order, among other things, to extend it to local transport services.
Its impact is however limited for inland transport owing to the existence of specific rules established by Regulation (EEC) No 1191/69.
Having regard to the numerous amendments adopted by the European Parliament at first reading in 2001 and the blocking of the proposal in the Council (cf.
The Commission White Paper on services of general interest published on 12 May 2004[7] drew conclusions from the current public debate and launched discussions on how to guarantee services of general interest effectively within the internal market on the basis of a set of general principles incorporated in Community policies.
In the absence of Community harmonisation, the relevant public authorities … are in principle free to decide whether to provide a service of general interest themselves or whether to entrust its provision to another … entity.
In inland transport, it is restricted to imposing strict methods of calculation for the amount of public service compensation pursuant to Article 73 of the Treaty.
Regulation 1191/69 establishes the general framework applicable to public service obligations in inland transport and lays down methods for calculating the corresponding compensation.
The United Kingdom began this trend in 1986 by eliminating the exclusive rights which were the rule in the bus transport sector.
Public sector groups, such as DB (D), NS (NL) and RATP (F) have since joined them.
THE COMMISSION PROPOSAL OF 2000, AMENDED IN 2002 The development of an increasingly competitive market for the inland public transport sector requires a regulatory framework for public service obligations which is transparent and which can prevent compensation from being classed as State aid.
On 26 July 2000, the Commission proposed a Regulation based on the principles of contractual relations between the authority and the operator and competitive tendering for public service contracts to make their award transparent and non-discriminatory.
On the basis of this position, the Commission adopted an amended proposal in February 2002 incorporating only some of these amendments: - extension of the duration of contracts (8 years for buses, 15 for rail transport); - extension of the transitional period (8 years); - modification of the list of exceptions to the competitive tendering obligation, and in particular increase (from 800 000 to 3 million euros) of the threshold below which direct award is possible and removal of the exception for integrated services.
To this end, in 2000 it referred the matter to the Court for a preliminary ruling on the interpretation of Articles 73 and 87 of the Treaty and Regulation 1191/69.
In its judgment, delivered in July 2003, the Court clarifies how the provisions of the Treaty on State aid apply to public services in general and public transport in particular.
Consequences of the judgment in the transport sector For the inland passenger transport sector, the legal situation resulting from the analysis of the Altmark judgment is as follows: - The judgment confirms that, since 1995, a number of Member States have opened up their transport markets to competition from undertakings established in other Member States.
Accordingly, the compensation granted to public transport operators – even small local operators – can affect trade between Member States,[26] and the question of whether it constitutes State aid must in principle be examined by the Commission. - As regards the inland public transport sector in particular, the Court notes the existence of a specific set of rules for the compensation of the operators concerned: those set out in Article 73 of the Treaty and in the corresponding secondary legislation, i.e.
Regulations 1191/69, 1192/69 and 1107/70.[27] The Altmark judgment confirms that Article 73 constitutes a lex specialis in relation to Article 86(2) of the Treaty since it establishes rules applicable to compensation for public services in the public transport sector.
As a result, compensation contrary to the provisions of Article 73, which has been exhaustively implemented by Regulations 1107/70 and 1191/69, does not constitute State aid compatible with the Treaty on the basis of Article 86(2) or any other provision of the Treaty. - The judgment confirms therefore that compensation for public transport services is covered by Regulation 1191/69 on public services.
As already stated, following this judgment the Commission adopted in February 2004 a draft decision and a draft framework for the application of Article 86 of the Treaty to compensation for public services.
The former Articles 4, 4a, 4b, 7a (apart from paragraph 1), 8, 9 (apart from paragraph 3), 12 (apart from paragraph 1), 14 and 18 have been removed as a result of this limitation and the need to keep to what is strictly necessary.
Article 4 Mandatory content of public service contracts and general rules This Article incorporates the substance of former Articles 6, 6a, 9(3) and 16 on the content and duration of contracts, taking account of recent case law (Altmark judgment) concerning the obligation to define public service obligations and the methods of calculating compensation for such obligations.
Paragraph 2 acknowledges that local authorities have the option of providing public transport services themselves or of entrusting them to an internal operator over which they exercise a control similar to that which they exercise over their own departments, on condition inter alia that the operator confine its activity to the geographical area over which the said authorities have jurisdiction.
Paragraph 3 adopts the principle of award by invitation to tender as well as the former Article 12(1) on the principles applicable to competitive tendering procedures.
Paragraph 2 lays down the competent authorities’ obligations to the Commission to ensure that the Regulation is properly applied.
Article 73 of the Treaty, which applies only to inland transport, provides for two possible exemptions from the rules on State aid: for aid for the coordination of (inland) transport and for compensation for public service obligations which constitutes State aid.
Article 11 Follow-up This Article provides for the Commission to monitor the implementation of the Regulation and developments in the provision of public passenger transport in Europe.
The Community legal framework ought therefore to be updated. (7) To be able to organise their public transport service in the manner best suited to the needs of the public, all competent authorities must be able to choose their public transport operators freely, under the conditions stipulated in this Regulation.
The organisation of public transport services by inland waterway is therefore subject to compliance with the general principles of the Treaty. (9) It is irrelevant from the viewpoint of Community law whether such transport services are operated by public or private undertakings.
As the purpose of these operations is manifestly different from the provision of public passenger transport, they need not therefore be concerned by the rules and procedures applicable to public service requirements. (11) The competent authorities are responsible for the organisation of the public transport network.
This approach is endorsed by the European Council under the so-called Lisbon Process of 28 March 2000 calling on the Commission, the Council and the Member States, each in accordance with their respective powers, to “speed up liberalisation in areas such as … transport”. (15) Any local authority may choose to provide its own public passenger transport services in the area it administers or to entrust them to an internal operator without competitive tendering.
However, this self-provision option needs to be strictly controlled to ensure a level playing field. (16) Where, on the other hand, a public authority chooses to entrust a general interest service to a third party, it must select the operator in accordance with Community law on public contracts and concessions, as established by Articles 43 to 49 of the EC Treaty, and the principles of transparency and equal treatment.
In addition, it will present a report on the implementation of this Regulation no later than two years after it enters into full application. (22) The compensation granted by Member States may in no case exceed the amounts required to cover the costs incurred in discharging each public service obligation.
Where these conditions are not satisfied and the general conditions for the application of Article 87(1) of the Treaty are met, public service compensation constitutes State aid which is subject to the provisions of Articles 73, 86, 87 and 88 of the Treaty. (27) Compensation for public service may prove necessary in the inland passenger transport sector so that undertakings responsible for public services operate on the basis of principles and under conditions allowing them to carry out their tasks.
Insofar as such compensation takes the form of State aid, it may be compatible with the Treaty pursuant to Article 73 under certain conditions.
Secondly, to avoid unjustified distortions of competition it may not exceed what is necessary to cover the net costs incurred through discharging the public service obligations, taking account of the revenue generated thereby and a reasonable profit. (28) Compensation granted by the Member States in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation may therefore be exempted from the prior notification required by Article 88(3) of the Treaty. (29) This Regulation replaces Regulation (EEC) No 1191/69 of the Council of 26 June 1969 on action by Member States concerning the obligations inherent in the concept of a public service in transport by rail, road and inland waterway;[33] that Regulation should therefore be repealed. (30) The scope of Regulation (EEC) No 1107/70 of the Council of 4 June 1970 on the granting of aids for transport by rail, road and inland waterway[34] is covered by this Regulation.
Article 2 Definitions For the purpose of this Regulation: (a) “public passenger transport” means transport services of general economic interest organised by the competent authority and provided to the public on a non-discriminatory and continuous basis; (b) “competent authority” means any public authority or group of public authorities of a Member State which is competent to organise public passenger transport and award public service contracts in a given geographical area, or any body vested with such authority; (c) “competent local authority” means any competent authority whose geographical area of competence is not national; (d) “public service operator” means any public or private undertaking or group of such undertakings which operates public passenger transport services or any public body which provides public passenger transport services; (e) “public service obligation” means a requirement defined or determined by a competent authority in order to assure passenger transport services in the general interest that an operator, if it were considering its own commercial interests, would not assume or would not assume to the same extent or under the same conditions without reimbursement; (f) “exclusive right” means a right entitling an operator to operate certain public passenger transport services on a particular route or network or in a particular area, to the exclusion of other operators; (g) “public service compensation” means any benefit, particularly financial, granted directly or indirectly by a competent authority from public funds during the period of implementation of the public service obligation or in connection with that period; (h) “direct award” means the award of a contract to a given operator without any prior competitive tendering procedure; (i) “public service contract” means one or more legally binding acts confirming the agreement between a competent authority and an operator to entrust to that operator the management and operation of services subject to public service obligations; depending on the law of the Member States, the contract may also consist of a decision adopted by the competent authority: - taking the form of an individual legislative or regulatory act, or - containing conditions under which the competent authority itself provides the services or entrusts the provision of such services to an internal operator; (j) “internal operator” means a legally distinct entity over which the competent authority exercises complete control similar to that exercised over its own departments.
Article 3 Public service contracts and general rules 1.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, public service obligations which aim to establish maximum tariffs for all passengers or for certain categories of passenger may either be included in a public service contract or be the subject of general rules.
Article 4 Mandatory content of public service contracts and general rules 1.
Article 5 Award of public service contracts 1.
Paragraphs 2 to 6 of this Article shall apply without prejudice to the obligations applicable to the competent authorities under Directives 92/50/EEC,[36] 93/36/EEC,[37] 93/37/EEC[38] and 93/38/EEC[39] as amended and Directives 2004/17/EC[40] and 2004/18/EC[41] on the award of public contracts. 2.
The competent authorities may decide to award public service contracts directly where their average annual value is estimated at less than €1 million or where they concern the annual provision of fewer than 300 000 kilometres of transport services. 5.
The award or extension of a contract by emergency measure shall not exceed the period needed by the competent authority to organise a new procedure for the award of a contract in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation and in any event shall not exceed one year. 6.
The competent authorities may decide to award public service contracts directly where they concern regional or long-distance transport by rail.
Article 6 Public service compensation 1.
All compensation connected with a general rule or a public service contract must conform to the provisions laid down in Article 4, irrespective of how the contract was awarded.
All compensation, of whatever nature, connected with a contract awarded directly in accordance with Article 5(2), (4), (5) or (6) or connected with a general rule must also conform to the provisions laid down in the annex. 2.
Article 7 Publicity 1.
Each competent authority shall take the necessary measures to ensure that at least one year before the launch of the invitation to tender procedure or one year before the direct award the following information at least is published in the Official Journal of the European Union: (a) The name and address of the competent authority; (b) The type of award chosen; (c) The services and areas covered by the award.
Paragraphs 2 to 6 of this Article shall apply without prejudice to the obligations applicable to the competent authorities under Directives 92/50/EEC,[42] 93/36/EEC,[43] 93/37/EEC[44] and 93/38/EEC[45] as amended and Directives 2004/17/EC[46] and 2004/18/EC[47] on the award of public contracts. 2.
Each competent authority shall ensure that: (a) at least half of its public service contracts for transport by coach and bus, by value, are awarded in accordance with this Regulation within four years of its entry into force; and (b) all of its public service contracts for transport by coach and bus are awarded in accordance with this Regulation within eight years of its entry into force. 3.
Each competent authority shall ensure that: (a) at least half of its public service contracts for transport by rail, by value, are awarded in accordance with this Regulation within five years of its entry into force; and (b) all of its public service contracts for transport by rail are awarded in accordance with this Regulation within ten years of its entry into force. 4.
For the application of paragraphs 2, 3 and 4, no account shall be taken of public service contracts awarded before the entry into force of this Regulation on the basis of a fair competitive tendering procedure, provided that they are of limited duration comparable to the durations specified in Article 4(5) of this Regulation.
Such contracts may continue until they expire. 6.
The competent authorities may, in the second half of the transitional periods specified in paragraphs 2 and 3, exclude from participation in the award of contracts by invitation to tender those operators which cannot provide evidence that the value of the public transport services for which they are receiving compensation or enjoy an exclusive right awarded in accordance with this Regulation represents at least half the value of all the public transport services for which they are receiving compensation or enjoy an exclusive right.
Article 10 Repeal 1.
Regulation (EEC) No 1191/69 is hereby repealed. 2.
Article 11 Follow-up 1.
Two years after this Regulation is adopted, the Commission shall present a report on developments in the provision of public passenger transport in Europe. 2.
No later than two years after the end of the transitional period specified in Article 8(3), the Commission shall present a report on the implementation of this Regulation.
Article 12 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, For the Parliament For the Council The President The President ANNEX Rules applicable to compensation in the cases referred to in Article 6(1) 1.
The compensation connected with contracts awarded directly in accordance with Article 5(2), (4), (5) or (6) or with a general rule must be calculated in accordance with the rules laid down in this Annex. 2.
Costs and revenue must be calculated in accordance with the accounting rules in force. 5.
Judgment of 22 November 2001 Ferring C-53/00 (ECR.
