With this in mind, the following draft regulation on the revision of the implementing rules for the Financial Regulation deals with technical amendments which can be introduced under the current Financial Regulation, as requested by the Commission in the minutes of its meeting of 3 May.
AMENDMENTS CONSIDERED NECESSARY 2.1.
Budgetary principles Under the principle of unity, the Commission must inform the budgetary authority by 15 April of the cancellation of carried-over appropriations which have not been committed by 31 March.
The 15 April deadline has proved to be too strict and should be replaced by 15 May (Article 6).
In relation to the principle of the unit of account , it should be clarified that the rules on the rate of conversion between the euro and other currencies contained in Articles 7 and 8 IR only apply to conversions carried out by authorising officers and not to conversions carried out by contractors or beneficiaries following the specific rules agreed in contracts or grant agreements.
For reasons of efficiency and simplification, the Commission's accounting officer should establish the monthly accounting exchange rate for the euro to be used for accounting purposes (Article 7(3)IR), as this competence is strictly linked with his duty of preparing and presenting the accounts under Article 61(1) FR.
In addition, for reasons of transparency and equal treatment of Community officials, a specific rule on conversion rates is established in Article 8 for staff expenditure paid in a currency other than the euro.
The accounting officer Following the introduction of accrual accounting on 1 January 2005, as the accounting data are available at any moment in the informatics system, it is more logical and quicker to draw up the trial balance the day on which the accounting officer terminates his duty.
Article 64 needs to be adjusted to take account of the developments of the third-party files managed by the accounting officer's staff in order to be able to ascertain at any moment the financial position of third parties with whom the Commission incurs expenses or conducts operations. 2.3.
At the same time, the accounting officer should be authorised to lay down the detailed instructions on the means of payment which can be used by the imprest administrators (Article 67). 2.4.
In that case, the authorising officer, in accordance with his risk assessment, must carry out appropriate ex post verification (Article 47).
It should also be specified that all contracts with a value less than or equal to EUR 60 000 may be awarded after a negotiated procedure (Article 129 and consequently Articles 119, 126, 128, 146).
However, in line with the principles of the Directive, in order to better protect the financial interests of the Communities, for high-value contracts in the external field, the economic operator to whom the contract is to be awarded should nevertheless have to provide evidence confirming the initial declaration (Article 134).
For the sake of clarity, it must be pointed out that all candidates and tenderers should always have to provide evidence that they are not in one of the situations giving grounds for exclusion from contracts awarded by the institutions on their own account with a value above the thresholds set out in Directive 2004/18/EC.
In order to simplify the management of the procurement procedure for contracts awarded by the institutions on their own account with a value below EUR 60 000 and, in the external aid, for contracts awarded after a competitive negotiated procedure or on the basis of a single bid, the contracting authority should have the possibility to simplify the content of the tender documents (Article 130).
Grants Certain provisions in the title on grants should be amended in order to simplify the procedures for grants and for grants of small amount (less than or equal to EUR 25 000), in accordance with the general principle of proportionality enshrined in the EC Treaty.
Access to EC financing should be facilitated by enhancing co-financing in kind (Article 172).
Grant applications (Article 173) and agreements should be made easier for grants of a small amount (Article 164).
Accounting The title on presentation of the accounts and accounting should be updated to take account of the adoption by the Commission's accounting officer in December 2004, pursuant to Article 133 of the Financial Regulation, of the accounting rules and methods and the harmonised chart of accounts .
In particular, the competitive negotiated procedure should be improved in the same way as for low-value contracts and the negotiated procedure should be allowed in the event of two failures of a competitive negotiated procedure and in the event of one failure when the competitive negotiated procedure follows the unsuccessful use of a framework contract (Articles 241, 242, 243, 244, 245).
The option of waiving the requirement for a guarantee in the case of pre-financing to a public body should be allowed and the performance guarantee should be required only in the event of procurement with a high value (Article 250).
Moreover, the pre-information notice should be published as early as possible and not necessarily before the 31st of January(Article 240) and an evaluation committee or a contracting authority should be allowed to ask candidates and tenderers for clarification , as is the case for contracts awarded by the institutions on their own account (Article 252).
It is necessary to adapt the Implementing Rules to take account of obstacles resulting from national laws in third countries (Articles 86, 106 and 264). 2.11.
For reasons of efficiency, the Commission's accounting officer should be authorised to establish the monthly accounting exchange rate of the euro to be used for accounts purposes.
In addition, for reasons of transparency and equal treatment of Community officials, a specific rule on conversion rates is established in Article 8 for staff expenditure paid in a currency other than the euro. (4) As regards the principle of sound financial management , the content of the ex ante evaluation should be clarified and the scope of the ex ante , interim or ex post evaluation should be better targeted, having due regard to the principle of proportionality.
In this case, the authorising officer, in accordance with his risk assessment, must carry out appropriate ex post verification. (6) It is appropriate to include in the report on negotiated procedures only the cases of the use of negotiated procedures which constitute exceptions to the normal procurement procedures. (7) Following the introduction of accrual accounting on 1 January 2005, and the availability of accounting data at any moment in the informatics system, it is more logical and quicker to draw up the trial balance the day on which the accounting officer terminates his duty.
The accounting officer should be authorised to lay down the detailed instructions on the means of payment which can be used by the imprest administrators. (10) In the light of Article 21a of the Staff Regulations, the authorising officer by delegation or sub-delegation should, in case of confirmation of instruction, be allowed not to carry out the instruction if it is manifestly illegal. (11) Given the complementary roles of the authorising officers and the accounting officer in the process of recovery by offsetting, it is justified to provide for a consultation between them before offsetting, in particular when offsetting involves several debtors. (12) Recovery by offsetting before the end of the deadline within which if the debtor pays saves himself the interest ("period of grace") should be limited only to cases where the accounting officer considers that the financial interests of the Communities are at stake. (13) In order to protect the financial interests of the Communities, bank guarantees that secure a Community claim pending appeal against a fine should be completely independent of the obligation laid down in the contract, irrespective of the applicable national laws. (14) The content of the financing decision should be further specified.
Moreover, it should be made clear that the work programme referred to in Article 110 of the Financial Regulation may constitute a financing decision provided that it contains a sufficiently detailed framework. (15) Where a global budgetary commitment is made, any authorising officer – not only the authorising officer by delegation – may be responsible for the legal commitments implementing the global commitment. (16) The payment time-limits for contracts and grant agreements which depend on the approval of a report or certificate should be revised in order to make ascertain that payments are made on the basis of an approved report or certificate.
Moreover, the time-limit for approval of a report related to a grant agreement involving actions which are particularly complex to evaluate should be brought into line with the current time limit for complex service contracts. (17) The thresholds for low-value contracts, fixed in 1994, should be updated and raised from EUR 50 000 to EUR 60 000 and from EUR 13 800 to EUR 25 000 respectively.
Moreover, it should be specified that all contracts with a value equal to or less than EUR 60 000 may be awarded after a negotiated procedure. (18) In addition, the implementing rules should define more precisely the procedure to be followed for certain research and development service contracts and certain service contracts intended for broadcasting which are excluded from the scope of the Directive 2004/18/EC on the coordination of procedures for the award of public work contracts, public supply contracts and public service contracts[3].
However, in line with the principles of the Directive 2004/18/EC and in order to better protect the financial interests of the Communities, for high-value contracts in the external field, the economic operator to whom the contract is to be awarded should nevertheless have to provide evidence confirming the initial declaration.
Whenever a candidate or tenderer is required to provide evidence, the contracting authority may also consider evidence provided by that candidate or tenderer in another procurement procedure launched by the same contracting authority, provided that the issuing date of the evidence does not exceed six months. (20) In order to simplify the management of the procurement procedure for contracts awarded by the institutions on their own account with a value below EUR 60 000 and, in the external aid, for contracts awarded after a competitive negotiated procedure or on the basis of a single bid, the contracting authority may limit the content of the tender documents to what is strictly necessary. (21) In external actions, the competitive negotiated procedure should be rendered more efficient and the negotiated procedure should be allowed in the event of two failures of a competitive negotiated procedure and in the event of one failure when the competitive negotiated procedure follows the unsuccessful use of a framework contract.
The evaluation committee or the contracting authority should have the option of asking candidates or tenderers to supply additional documents or clarify information, as provided for in the case of contracts awarded by the institutions on their own account. (22) In external actions, the legal framework for the procurement should also be simplified as regard the publication of the pre-information notice for international calls for tenders and the requirement of a performance guarantee.
The option of adapting the amount of the performance guarantee should be introduced, for the sake of proportionality, and a possibility should be given to the authorising officer to waive the requirement of a guarantee in the case of pre-financing to a public body, depending on his risk assessment. (23) With regard to the award of grants, in order to reduce the administrative burden, it should be accepted that the de jure or de facto monopoly of the beneficiary can be substantiated in the award decision. (24) The requirement to attach an external audit to the application shall apply only to applications for grants with a value equal to or more than EUR 750 000 for actions and to operating grants with a value equal to or more than EUR 100 000. (25) Co-financing in kind by beneficiaries should be made easier and the notion of bodies which pursue an aim of European general interest and which may receive operating grants should include European bodies involved in promoting citizenship or innovation. (26) Educational bodies – not only secondary and higher education bodies – should no longer be subject to the verification of their financial capacity, and applicants should be informed as soon as possible of the rejection of their application. (27) For grants of a small amount, applications and agreements should be limited to what is strictly necessary. (28) In the case of operating grants to bodies which pursue an aim of general European interest, the implementation of the non-profit rule should be limited to the percentage of co-financing corresponding to the Community’s contribution to the operating budget in order to take account of the rights of the other public contributors which are also required to recover the percentage of annual profit corresponding to their contribution.
In the event the earlier pre-financing has not been entirely consumed, the amount of the new payment shall take into account the degree of implementation of the grant agreement. (31) Following the adoption by the Commission's accounting officer in December 2004, pursuant to Article 133 of the Financial Regulation, of the accounting rules and methods and the harmonised chart of accounts, the Title on presentation of the accounts and accounting should be updated to take out provisions which are no longer necessary and which may create confusion. (32) The list of European offices should be supplemented to take account of Decision 2005/118/EC of the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission, the Court of Justice, Court of Auditors, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Ombudsman of 26 January 2005 setting up a European Administrative School[4] which is presently attached administratively to the European Communities Personnel Selection Office. (33) Experience has shown that several provisions of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 create difficulties for delegations in third countries.
The following Article 6a is inserted: "Article 6aProvisional twelfths(Article 13(2) of the Financial Regulation) The maximum commitments and payments of the allotted appropriations of the previous financial year, as specified in Article 13(2) of the Financial Regulation, shall be understood to refer to the appropriations for the financial year referred to in Article 5 of this Regulation, after adjustment for the transfers made during that financial year." 3.
Article 7 is replaced by the following: "Article 7 Rate of conversion between the euro and other currencies (Article 16 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
For the purposes of the accounts provided for in Articles 132 to 137 of the Financial Regulation and subject to Article 213 of this Regulation, conversion between the euro and another currency shall be made using the monthly accounting exchange rate of the euro.
That accounting exchange rate shall be established by the Commission's accounting officer by means of any source of information he regards as reliable, on the basis of the exchange rate on the penultimate working day of the month preceding that for which the rate is established." 4.
Article 8 is replaced by the following: "Article 8 Rate to be used for conversion between the euro and other currencies (Article 16 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
For the regularisation of imprest accounts in national currencies, as referred to in Article 16 of the Financial Regulation, the rate to be used for the conversion between the euro and other currencies shall be that of the month of the expenditure from the imprest account concerned. 4.
For the reimbursement of flat-rate expenditure, or expenditure arising from the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Communities and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Communities (hereinafter: “Staff Regulations”) which is fixed at a ceiling, and which is paid in a currency other than the euro, the rate to be used shall be that which is in force when the entitlement arises." 5.
Article 21 is replaced by the following: "Article 21 Evaluation (Article 27 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The evaluations referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be proportionate to the resources mobilised for and the impact of the programme and activity concerned." 6.
Article 45 is amended as follows: (a) In paragraph 1, the first sentence is replaced by the following: "1.
The authorising officer responsible may be assisted in his duties by persons covered by the Staff Regulations (hereinafter "staff") entrusted, under his responsibility, with certain operations required for the implementation of the budget and production of the financial and management information." (b) Paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: "2.
Article 56 is replaced by the following: " Article 56 Termination of duties of the accounting officer (Article 61 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Article 64 is amended as follows: (a) Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: "1.
The imprest administrator may provisionally validate and pay expenditure, on the basis of a detailed framework set out in the instructions from the authorising officer responsible.
Article 67 is amended as follows: (a) In paragraph 2, the second subparagraph is replaced by the following:"The maximum amount which may be paid by the imprest administrator where it is materially impossible or inefficient to carry out payment operations by budgetary procedures may not exceed EUR 60 000 for each item of expenditure." (b) Paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: "4.
Article 70 is amended as follows: (a) In paragraph 1, the second sentence is replaced by the following:"Statements of that account shall be accessible at all times to the authorising officer responsible and a list of transactions shall be established at least once a month and be sent the following month together with supporting documents by the imprest administrator to the authorising officer for settlement of the imprest operations." (b) In paragraph 2, the first sentence is replaced by the following: "2.
Article 83 is replaced by the following: "Article 83 Recovery by offsetting (Article 73 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
However, where it is necessary to safeguard the financial interests of the Communities, when the accounting officer has reasons to believe that the amount due to the Commission would be lost, the accounting officer shall recover by offsetting before the deadline referred to in Article 78(3)(b). 2.
Article 86 is amended as follows (a) The first paragraph is replaced by the following: "1.
Without prejudice to any specific provisions deriving from the application of Community sectoral rules, and in case of obstacles resulting from national legislation in third countries, any amount receivable not repaid on the date referred to in Article 78(3)(b) shall bear interest in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3." (b) Paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: "3.
In the case of fines, where the debtor provides a financial guarantee which is accepted by the accounting officer in lieu of a provisional payment, the interest rate applicable from the date referred to in Article 78(3)(b) shall be the rate referred to in paragraph 2 increased by only one and a half percentage points." 24.
Article 90 is replaced by the following: "Article 90 Financing decision (Article 75 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Article 101 is replaced by the following: "Article 101 Material form of "passed for payment" (Article 79 of the Financial Regulation) In a non-computerised system, "passed for payment" shall take the form of a stamp incorporating the signature of the authorising officer responsible or of a technically competent member of staff, empowered by the authorising officer responsible in accordance with Article 97.
Article 106 is amended as follows: (a) Paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: "3.
A call for expressions of interest shall constitute a means of pre-selecting candidates who will be invited to submit tenders in response to future restricted invitations to tender for contracts with a value of more than EUR 60 000, subject to Articles 126 and 127." 36.
Article 129 is replaced by the following: "Article 129 Low-value contracts (Article 91 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
For contracts with a value less than or equal to EUR 25 000, the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 with consultation of at least three candidates may be used. 3.
Contracts with a value less than or equal to EUR 3 500 may be awarded on the basis of a single tender. 4.
However, where the contracting authority has decided to require such a declaration or for contracts awarded in the field of external actions with a value above the thresholds laid down in Article 241(1)(a), Article 243(1)(a), or Article 245(1)(a), the tenderer to whom the contract is to be awarded shall provide, within a time limit defined by the contracting authority, the evidence confirming that initial declaration." (c) The following paragraph 5 is added: "5.
Article 135 is amended as follows: (a) Paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: "2.
Article 172 is amended as follows: (a) In paragraph 2, the first sentence is replaced by the following: "2.
The authorising officer may accept co-financing in kind." (b) The following paragraph 3 is inserted: "3.
For grants with a total value of less than or equal to EUR 25 000, the authorising officer responsible may, depending on his risk assessment, waive the obligation to provide the evidence referred to in paragraph 1." 50.
Article 173 is amended as follows: (a) Paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: "2.
For applications for a grant exceeding EUR 25 000, the profit and loss account, the balance sheet for the last financial year for which the accounts were closed and any other supporting document requested in the call for proposals shall, depending on the risk analysis conducted by the authorising officer responsible on his own responsibility, also be attached to the application." (b) Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: (i) The first subparagraph is replaced by the following: "4.
Article 182 is amended as follows: (a) Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: "1.
Articles 195, 196, 197, 198, 200 and 202 are deleted. 56.
Article 211 is replaced by the following: "Article 211 Accounting reconciliations (Article 135 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Article 241 is amended as follows: (a) Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (i) In subparagraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: "(a) for contracts with a value of EUR 200 000 or more: an international restricted invitation to tender within the meaning of Article 122(2) and point (a) of Article 240(2);" (ii) Subparagraph 2 is replaced by the following:"Contracts with a value less than or equal to EUR 5 000 may be awarded on the basis of a single tender." (b) In paragraph 2, a new subparagraph is added:"If the number of candidates satisfying the selection criteria or the minimum capacity levels is less than the minimum number referred to in subparagraph 1, the contracting authority may invite to submit a tender only those candidates who satisfy the criteria." (b) Paragraph 3 is replaced by the following:"Under the procedure referred to in point (b) of paragraph 1, the contracting authority shall draw up a list of at least three tenderers of its choice.
Article 242 is amended as follows: (a) Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (i) In subparagraph 1, the first sentence is replaced by the following: "1.
For service contracts, contracting authorities may use the negotiated procedure with a single tender in the following cases:" (ii) In subparagraph 1, the following point (g) is added: "(g) where one attempt for the use of the competitive negotiated procedure following the unsuccessful use of a framework contract has failed.
In this case, after cancelling the competitive negotiated procedure, the contracting authority may negotiate with one or more tenderers of its choice, from among those that took part in the invitation to tender, provided that the original terms of the contract are not substantially altered." (iii) The following new subparagraph is added:"Where the Commission is not the contracting authority, the use of the negotiated procedure is subject to the prior agreement of the responsible authorising officer." (b) In paragraph 2, point (b) and the last sentence are replaced by the following: "(b) additional services consisting in the repetition of similar services entrusted to the contractor providing services under a first contract, provided that : (i) a contract notice was published for the supply of the first service and the possibility of using the negotiated procedure for new services for the project and the estimated cost were clearly indicated in the contract notice published for the first service; (ii) the extension of the contract is a single one and for a value and duration not exceeding the value and the duration of the initial contract." 63.
Article 243 is amended as follows: (a) Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (i) In subparagraph 1, points (a) and (b) are replaced by the following: "a) for contracts with a value of EUR 150 000 or more: an international open invitation to tender within the meaning of Article 122(2) and point (a) of Article 240(2); b) for contracts with a value of EUR 30 000 or more but less than EUR 150 000: a local open invitation to tender within the meaning of Article 122(2) and point (b) of Article 240(2);" (ii) Subparagraph 2 is replaced by the following:"Contracts with a value less than or equal to EUR 5 000 may be awarded on the basis of a single tender." (b) Paragraph 2 is replaced by the following:"Under the procedure referred to in point (c) of paragraph 1, the contracting authority shall draw up a list of at least three suppliers of its choice.
Article 244(1) is amended as follows: (a) In subparagraph 1, the first sentence is replaced by the following:"Supply contracts may be awarded by negotiated procedure with a single tender in the following cases:"; (b) The following point (e) is added: "(e) where after two attempts the competitive negotiated tender procedure has been unsuccessful, that is to say, where no administratively and technically valid tender or no qualitatively and/or financially worthwhile tender has been received, in which case, after cancelling the competitive negotiated procedure, the contracting authority may negotiate with one or more tenderers of its choice, from among those that took part in the invitation to tender, provided that the original terms of the contract are not substantially altered." (c) The following subparagraph is added:"Where the Commission is not the contracting authority, the use of the negotiated procedure is subject to the prior agreement of the responsible authorising officer." 65.
Article 245 is amended as follows: (a) Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (i) In subparagraph 1, points (a) and (b) are replaced by the following: "(a) for contracts with a value of EUR 5 000 000 or more: (i) in principle an international open invitation to tender within the meaning of Article 122(2) and point (a) of Article 240(2); (ii) exceptionally, in view of the characteristics of certain works and after the agreement of the authorising officer responsible if the Commission is not the contracting authority, an international restricted invitation to tender within the meaning of Article 122(2) and point (a) of Article 240(2). (b) for contracts with a value of EUR 300 000 or more but less than EUR 5 000 000: a local open invitation to tender within the meaning of Article 122(2) and point (a) of Article 240(2)." (ii) Subparagraph 2 is replaced by the following:"Contracts with a value less than or equal to EUR 5 000 may be awarded on the basis of a single tender." (b) Paragraph 2 is replaced by the following:"Under the procedure referred to in point (c) of paragraph 1, the contracting authority shall draw up a list of at least three contractors of its choice.
For contracts with a value below the thresholds laid down in Article 241(1)(a), Article 243(1)(c) or Article 245(1)(c), the contracting authority may limit the content of the tender documents relating to the invitation to tender to what is strictly necessary." 68.
The thresholds and amounts laid down in Articles 54, 67, 119, 126, 128, 129, 130, 135, 151, 152, 164, 172, 173, 180, 181, 182, 226, 241, 243, 245 and 250 shall be updated every three years in line with movements in the consumer price index in the Community." Article 2 Public procurement and grant award procedures launched before the entry into force of this Regulation shall continue to be subject to the rules applicable when those procedures were launched.
Article 3 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
Done at Brussels, For the Commission Member of the Commission [1] OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1. [2] OJ L 357, 31.12.2002, p. 1. [3] OJ L 134, 30.4.2004, p. 114. [4] OJ L 37, 10.2.2005, p. 14.
