The basic regulation does not foresee a general impact assessment but contains an exhaustive list of conditions that have to be assessed. | LEGAL ELEMENTS OF THE PROPOSAL | 305 | Summary of the proposed action On 9 September 2004, the Commission initiated an anti-dumping investigation with regard to imports into the Community of granular polytetrafluoroethylene (‘PTFE’) originating in Russia and the People’s Republic of China (‘PRC’).
The Commission, by Regulation (EC) No 862/2005[1] imposed a provisional anti-dumping duty on PTFE originating in Russia and the PRC.
Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and collecting definitively the provisional duty imposed on imports of granular polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) originating in Russia and the People's Republic of China THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 of 22 December 1995 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Community[2] (the ‘basic Regulation’) and in particular Articles 9 and 10(2) thereof, Having regard to the proposal submitted by the Commission after consulting the Advisory Committee, Whereas: A.
In accordance with the provision of Article 20(1) of the basic Regulation, all interested parties which requested a hearing were granted an opportunity to be heard by the Commission. (3) The Commission continued to seek and verify all information deemed necessary for the definitive findings. (4) An additional verification visit was carried out at the premises of the following companies: - Heroflon (Italy), granular PTFE transformer - Fluorseals (Italy), granular PTFE processor (5) All parties were informed of the essential facts and considerations on the basis of which it was intended to recommend the imposition of a definitive anti-dumping duty and the definitive collection of amounts secured by way of provisional duty.
Product concerned (7) The provisional Regulation described the product concerned as so called granular polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), containing not more than 3% of other monomer unit than tetrafluoroethylene, without fillers, in the form of powder or pellets, with the exclusion of micronized material.
The product concerned is currently classifiable within CN code ex 39 04 61 00. (8) One users’/importers’ organisation (the European Fluoropolymer Fair Trade Association or ‘EFFTA’) and one exporters’ association objected to the provisional conclusions that all granular PTFE constitute a single product.
The definitive findings revealed that granular PTFE is not used in any of the aforementioned applications. (11) Taking into account the above considerations, the product definition and the provisional findings set out in recital (14) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 2.
Like product (12) A number of importers and users reiterated that the granular PTFE produced and sold in the Community market would not be alike to the products imported from the PRC and Russia.
These parties did, however, not come forward with new information or evidence in this matter. (13) It should first be noted that as outlined in recital (16) of the provisional Regulation, the investigation has shown that the Community industry also produced and sold scrap or ‘off-spec’ material during the IP to the same customers as the exporting producers concerned.
On the other hand, the investigation revealed that at least the Russian exporting producers sold qualities of granular PTFE to the Community, which were even without post-treatment comparable to the high quality Community grades, albeit in very limited quantities.
Furthermore, even low quality granular PTFE imported from the countries concerned could after post-treatment be used in a similar range of applications as the product produced and sold in the Community market by the Community industry. (14) Considering the above, it was concluded that the product concerned and the granular PTFE produced and sold in the Community by the Community industry share the same physical and technical characteristics and the same basic end-uses.
They were therefore considered to be alike within the meaning of Article 1(4) of the basic Regulation. (15) In the absence of any other comments in this regard, the provisional conclusions set out in recital (15) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed.
Therefore, the fact that such State interference would allegedly not have occurred in the past, would, even if it were demonstrated, not offer any guarantee that it will not take place in future, in particular should an individual duty rate be attributed to this company. (18) Another exporter argued that its shareholding structure, in particular the fact that it is partly State-owned, did not allow as such the conclusion that the State interfered in the setting of prices and other sales terms.
Therefore, it was concluded that Article 9(5)(c) is not fulfilled and IT should therefore be rejected. (19) In the absence of any other comments, the findings of the provisional Regulation as set out in (45) recital of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 1.3.
Nevertheless, as mentioned in recital (54) of the provisional Regulation, the different level of overall economic development is, in itself, not a relevant factor when selecting an analogue country.
Thus, a simple comparison of prices in the non-market economy country or in the country with an economy in transition with those in the analogue country is as such not meaningful.
Determination of Normal Value for Chinese exporting producers not granted MET (24) One Chinese exporting producer argued that the adjustment for quality differences described in recital (53) of the provisional Regulation was insufficient and that normal value should have been adjusted to the same extent as the Community industry price when calculating undercutting and underselling margins, as explained in recital (98) of the same Regulation. (25) It should be noted that while the adjustment to the normal value aims at capturing differences between the like product sold on the market of the analogue country and the product concerned, the adjustment made in the injury analysis takes into consideration differences between the latter and the like product sold in the Community.
Export price (26) In the absence of any comments by the interested parties, the methodology set out in recital (59) of the provisional Regulation is hereby confirmed. 1.6.
Comparison (27) One Chinese exporting producer argued that the adjustment for physical differences outlined in recital (62) of the provisional Regulation would not properly reflect the actual difference in production costs and the adjustment made should therefore be revised appropriately.
It should be noted that the adjustment made for the determination of the provisional dumping margin was based on a reasonable estimate of the difference of market value in the USA, in accordance with Article 2(10)(a) of the basic Regulation.
On this basis, the claim had to be rejected.
In the absence of any other comments, the findings on comparison as set out in recitals (60) to (64) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 2.
Moreover, one company refused to submit information for the calculation of the dumping margin or did not provide such information in a timely manner so that it could not be verified anymore.
It was claimed that the deficiencies would have only a minor impact on the findings and that the figures supplied by the companies would be overall sufficiently reliable to be used for the determination of dumping. (33) A re-examination was made of all information submitted by the two companies in their responses to the questionnaire and during the on-spot verification, as well as of all the information submitted by the companies following the disclosure of the provisional findings.
Therefore, and for the reasons set out in recital (71) of the provisional Regulation, facts available had to be used in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation.
Normal value (36) In the absence of any comments by the interested parties, the methodology set out in recital (76) of the provisional Regulation is hereby confirmed. 2.3.
Export price (37) Both companies claimed that the calculation of the export price was wrongly based on prices as recorded in Eurostat for imports falling under the CN code ex 3904 61 00, since apart from the product concerned this code also includes other products not subject to the present proceeding. (38) In this regard, it should be noted that the large majority of imports under the above mentioned CN code falls under the product concerned.
In the absence of any more reliable information available, this methodology was maintained for the determination of the definitive dumping margin. (39) One company claimed that in order to establish its export price, the information of two unrelated importers accounting for more than 80% of its sales to the Community during the investigation period should be used.
Therefore, the data provided did not allow a determination of the export price on that basis and the claim had to be rejected. (40) In the absence of any other information, the methodology as outlined in recital (77) of the provisional Regulation was maintained and the export price was calculated on the basis of Eurostat data. 2.4.
Comparison (41) In the absence of any comments by the interested parties, the findings of recitals (78) and (79) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.
Dumping margin (42) In the absence of any comments by the interested parties, the methodology for the calculation of the dumping margins as set out in recitals (24), (65) to (68) and (80) to (82) of the provisional Regulation are herewith confirmed.
Considering the above, the definitive dumping margins, expressed as a percentage of the CIF import price at the Community border, are: Exporting country | Dumping margin | People’s Republic of China | 99,7% | Russia | 36,6% | D.
To support their claim, the exporting producers argued that the decrease in the Community industry’s profitability from 2002 onwards coincided with a decrease of imports originating in Russia, while in 2001, when imports from Russia were at the highest, the Community industry enjoyed high profit margins.
The exporter concluded that on this basis material injury could not have been caused by imports originating in Russia and that cumulation was therefore not warranted. (45) It is noted that, as set out in recital (90) of the provisional Regulation, price trends from both Russia and the PRC, are similar.
Finally, the definitive findings confirmed that imports of granular PTFE from the PRC and Russia were competing with each other on the Community market.
The above argument was consequently rejected. (46) In the absence of any further comments in this particular respect, the findings in recitals (88) to (93) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.
Imports from the countries concerned 3.1.
Volume, market share and prices of the imports concerned (47) In the absence of any comments in this particular respect, the findings in recitals (94) to (96) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.2.
This claim had consequently to be rejected. (49) One Chinese exporting producer pointed to a clerical error when calculating the adjustment for import duties.
The Community industry further argued that in order to produce pre-sintered material, their products would also need further processing, and therefore no adjustment to the import price would be necessary.
However, these product types were only sold in negligible quantities during the IP and mainly for testing purposes.
Thus, on the basis of the information available from the co-operating users, imports of such higher quality granular PTFE from Russia constituted only 1.4% of their total imports from that country. (53) It was further found that all other imported granular PTFE grades needed post-treatment, which consisted mainly in heating and further milling.
The Community industry’s arguments had therefore to be rejected. (54) On the other hand, one Russian exporting producer and one importer of granular PTFE from Russia claimed that even after post-treatment the granular PTFE exported by this exporting producer would still be of a lower quality than the granular PTFE produced and sold by the Community industry on the Community market.
The exporting producer added that the post-treatment would only balance quality differences with regard to the particle size and the impurity of the product, excluding, however, other key quality parameters, such as tensile strength and elongation, which would have a considerable impact on the intrinsic quality of the Russian granular PTFE and consequently on the quality of the semi-finished product.
In order to substantiate this claim, the above mentioned importer submitted information on testing results which allegedly showed quality differences between granular PTFE produced by Community producers and post-treated granular PTFE imported from Russia.
Therefore, it is confirmed that granular PTFE imported from this exporting producer after post-treatment was of a similar quality as the granular PTFE produced and sold by the Community industry on the Community market and could be used in a wide-range of similar applications. (56) Given the above, the adjustment provisionally made when calculating the undercutting margin was found to be appropriate.
Thus, the adjustment amounted to 36.7% of the purchase price of the users/importers concerned. (57) Taken into consideration the above corrections and in the absence of any other comments, recitals (97) to (98) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. (58) On the basis of the above, the comparison on a per model basis showed that the product concerned originating in the PRC and Russia was sold in the Community at prices which undercut those of the Community industry by 20.5% and 13.5% respectively during the IP, when expressed as a percentage of the Community industry’s prices. 3.3.
General remarks (59) Certain interested parties pointed to the positive trends of certain injury factors and claimed that it would not be sufficient that other injury indicators such as sales prices and profitability showed negative trends to conclude that material injury had been suffered by the Community industry. (60) It should first be noted that Article 3(5) of the basic Regulation provides that while the impact of dumped imports on the Community industry shall be examined on the basis of an evaluation of all relevant economic factors and indices, none of these factors on its own or together with others can necessarily give decisive guidance.
It is therefore not required that all injury factors show a negative trend in order to conclude that the Community industry suffered material injury. (61) On this basis, in order to determine whether the Community industry suffered material injury, it is important that its overall financial situation is considered.
Production, production capacity and capacity utilisation (63) Some interested parties argued that the Community industry was able to increase its production capacity, volume and capacity utilisation, while consumption in the Community was decreasing, which would not point to an injurious situation of the Community industry. (64) In fact, the decrease in consumption (by 12%) was only felt in 2002, when the Community industry’s production volume decreased in line by 13%, which is also translated into a decrease in the capacity utilisation during the same year.
Nevertheless, even the sales volume of the Community industry decreased slightly during 2002. (65) Furthermore, the development of the production volume should also be seen in the more global context than solely in relation to the development of the Community consumption.
Finally, the overall increase of production volume and production capacity during the period considered is also part of the Community industry’s attempt to react to the dumped imports by trying to increase sales volumes, albeit at the expense of sales prices and profitability. (66) Therefore, the findings set out in recitals (101) and (102) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.3.3.
Sales volume and market share (67) Likewise, some interested parties argued that the increase in sales volume and market share, in particular with a parallel decrease in demand, would clearly indicate that the Community industry did not suffer material injury.
Therefore, the argument of the Russian exporting producer had to be rejected. (69) It is therefore reiterated that the development of the Community industry’s sales volume and market share has to be seen in correlation with the parallel decrease in sales value and unit prices due to the dumped imports and the consequent significant negative impact on the Community industry’s profitability.
As mentioned above in recital (61), in order to reach a meaningful conclusion on the overall financial situation of the Community industry, the positive development of these indicators should not be considered in isolation but together with the development of the remaining injury indicators. (70) In the absence of any other comments in this particular regard, the findings set out in recitals (103) and (104) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.3.4.
Stocks (71) One Chinese and the two Russian exporting producers also argued that the stocks of the Community industry decreased significantly between 2003 and the IP, which would indicate that no material injury was suffered. (72) It is noted that stock movements during the period considered were not significant and did not show a clear trend.
Indeed, while stocks decreased by 13 % between 2001 and 2002, they increased by 23 percentage points between 2002 and 2003 and then decreased again by 17 percentage points in the IP.
Moreover, it should also be noted that the decrease in stocks between 2003 and the IP only amounted to 216 tons which corresponds to 4.3% of the sales volume of the Community industry in 2003 and 3.9% during the IP. (73) In any event, the Community industry produced granular PTFE mainly to order and products kept in stocks are usually goods awaiting dispatch to customers.
Therefore, the increase in stocks in 2003 is rather due to a delay in delivery and cannot be seen as a meaningful injury indicator because it has no impact as such on the Community industry’s financial situation.
As already mentioned above in recital (73), production was made to order and therefore, the increase in stocks in 2003 is likely due to a delay in delivery, whereas customers and prices were already determined.
In any case, the increase in stocks of 283 tons in 2003 cannot be considered as significant as it only represents 5.6% of the sales volume of that year.
It was therefore concluded that this increase in stock prior to the IP could not cause the material injury suffered by the Community industry. (75) This claim had therefore to be rejected and the findings of recital (105) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.3.5.
Sales prices (76) The same exporting producers argued that the negative trend in the Community’s sales prices would not be a meaningful injury indicator since sales prices of granular PTFE have decreased globally as a consequence of market forces.
One exporting producer also questioned the correctness of the calculations without, however, providing any further detail in how far the calculations would not be correct. (77) As far as the calculation of the Community industry’s sales prices is concerned, no error was detected in the provisional calculations which are therefore confirmed. (78) It is reiterated that sales prices in the Community dropped significantly during the period considered which had a considerable impact on the Community industry’s profitability.
The remainder of this argument is more linked to the question of a causal link and will therefore be addressed below in recitals (106) and (107). (80) In the absence of any other comment in this particular regard, the findings of recital (106) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.3.6.
Growth (81) It was argued that the provisional determinations failed to explain the growth of the Community industry, in particular in comparison to the shrinking Community consumption for the period considered.
Investments and ability to raise capital (82) One Chinese exporting producer objected to the provisional conclusions that the ability to raise capital was not a meaningful injury indicator. (83) As outlined in recital (109) of the provisional Regulation, it was found that, since the Community producers are part of larger groups and therefore financed via intra-group cash pooling systems, the ability to raise capital was not a meaningful injury indicator, as it would normally not be affected, even if some producers of such larger groups are in a particularly injurious situation.
The claim therefore had to be rejected and the findings of recitals (108) and (109) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.3.8.
Profitability, return on investments and cash flow (84) Some exporting producers also observed that there has been an increase in the Community industry’s profitability between 2003 and the IP, which would not have been considered in the provisional findings. (85) This claim has to be rejected, given that the development of the Community industry’s profitability over the entire period considered was analysed in the provisional Regulation.
It was therefore concluded that this injury factor showed a clear negative trend during the period considered. (86) In the absence of any other comments in this particular regard, the findings of recitals (110) and (111) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.3.9.
Employment and productivity (87) The Chinese as well as the two Russian exporting producers reiterated their arguments on the development of employment and productivity, suggesting that these factors would not point to material injury.
In the absence of any new information in this regard, the provisional conclusions as set out in recital (112) of the provisional Regulation are maintained. 3.3.10.
Increase in the Community industry’s exports (88) Finally, the above mentioned exporting producers argued that the Community industry’s increasing export performance during the period considered would show that it did not suffer material injury. (89) In this context, it should be clarified that recital (134) of the provisional Regulation erroneously indicated that the increase in exports was 3% during the period considered.
However, as correctly indicated in the same recital of the provisional Regulation, these increased exports constituted only 12.7% of the Community industry’s total sales volume during the IP.
Thus, it is confirmed that in absolute terms, the increase was not significant (i.e.
Therefore, - although increasing - export sales still represented only a small part of the Community industry’s total sales.
Wages (90) In the absence of any comment in this particular regard, the findings in recital (113) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.3.12.
Magnitude of the dumping margin (91) In the absence of any comment in this particular regard, the findings in recital (114) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.3.13.
Conclusions on injury (93) As far as the arguments of certain interested parties were based on information submitted in the complaint, it should be noted that provisional findings were based on verified data of the Community producers during the IP. (94) On this basis, despite the positive trend of some injury factors, it was concluded that the overall financial situation of the Community industry has significantly declined during the period considered and that it had suffered material injury during the IP. (95) Therefore, the findings set out in recitals (101) to (120) of the provisional Regulation concerning the situation of the Community industry and the conclusion on injury are hereby confirmed.
Effects on dumped imports (96) In the absence of any comments in this particular respect, the findings in recitals (122) to (126) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 2.
It was also argued that a comparison between the decrease in consumption and the decrease of the Community market value as in recital (127) of the provisional Regulation is irrelevant since sales prices do not only depend on the development of consumption and demand but also on supply. (98) While it is not disputed that under normal competitive conditions prices are the result of supply and demand, it is recalled that in this case normal market conditions were distorted by uncompetitive behavior, i.e.
Moreover, the Community industry did not lose any economies of scale as a result of reduced consumption (100) This imbalance between the drop in prices and the decrease in consumption is also evidenced by the fact that the decrease in consumption was neither in line with the decrease of the Community market value of granular PTFE.
Therefore, the comparison between market value and consumption was a valid, albeit not the only indicator to assess whether the price decline of the Community industry was due to the dumped imports. (101) In the absence of any other comment in this particular regard, the findings in recitals (127) to (129) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 2.2.
Imports originating in third countries other than Russia and the PRC (102) In the absence of any comments in this particular regard, the findings in recital (130) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 2.3.
It is therefore not unusual that different producers opt for different strategies and that the injury suffered by these producers is translated into the negative development of either their market share or their sales prices or a combination of both and a consequent loss of their profitability.
Therefore, the decline of the sales prices of the Community industry is rather due to this general downward trend than to the dumped imports from the countries concerned. (107) It should be noted that an analysis of import prices, as recorded in Eurostat, in general, and from Switzerland and the USA, in particular, revealed that these were largely above the import price level of the PRC and Russia, as well as those of the Community industry.
Therefore, it was concluded that third countries and the non-complainant Community producers did not exert a competitive pressure on prices which could be regarded as a significant source of injury. (108) It is further noted that as mentioned above, although Community consumption was decreasing significantly from 2001 to 2002, it remained rather stable afterwards and increased even slightly.
Consequently, the granular PTFE market cannot be considered as a shrinking market. (109) On the basis of the above, it was concluded that the general economic downward trend during the period considered did not break the causal link between the dumped imports from the PRC and Russia and the material injury suffered by the Community industry. 2.5.
In this respect, it should be noted that the conclusion of recital (135) in the provisional Regulation was based on data which were verified during the different on-spot investigations at the premises of the European producers.
Therefore, these claims were rejected. (111) Another exporting producer claimed that the Community industry lowered its sales prices to unnecessary low levels, which would be evidenced by the fact that the Community industry increased sales volume and gained (instead of merely maintained) market share during the period considered.
Furthermore, it was alleged that the loss in profitability was rather due to an increase of unit costs - as a consequence of low capacity utilization rates and an increase in wages - than to the imports under consideration. (112) It should first be noted that in contrast to this exporting producers’ allegation, the production cost of the Community decreased during the period considered, which was therefore not considered as a cause for the loss of the Community industry’s profitability.
It is recalled that the imports under consideration significantly undercut the Community industry’s prices throughout the period considered, which could not be outweighed by the Community industry’s increase in market share. (113) On the basis of the above, it was concluded that, since the Community industry had efficient production processes and decreasing production costs, the material injury suffered by the Community industry was not self-inflicted.
The findings of recital (135) of the provisional Regulation are thereby confirmed. 2.6.
Given this low quantities, it was concluded that, even if unprofitable, captive sales could not break the causal link between the dumped imports from the PRC and Russia and the material injury suffered by the Community industry. 2.7.
No competition between granular PTFE imported from Russia and the PRC and the PTFE produced and sold by the Community industry (116) One exporting producer claimed that since the granular PTFE imported from the countries concerned would be of an overall lower quality and not compete with the product sold by the Community industry in the Community market, any injury suffered by the Community industry cannot have been caused by the imports under consideration. (117) It this respect, it is recalled that in recitals (12) to (14) it was concluded that despite different possible product types, including quality differences, the granular PTFE produced by the Community industry and the product concerned imported from the countries concerned have the same physical characteristics and essentially the same basic end-uses.
Therefore, the above claim had to be rejected. 2.8.
Exports by the Community industry (118) As mentioned in recital (89) above, the increase of export sales from the Community industry was in fact 54%.
Therefore, and in the absence of any other comments in this particular regard, the findings in recital (134) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 2.9.
As indicated in recital (134) of the provisional Regulation, the profit margin realized by the Community industry on these export sales was higher than the one realized on sales in the Community market.
On the other hand, imports from other countries into the Community representing roughly 25% of the Community consumption were made at significantly higher prices than those from Russia and the PRC, despite the depreciation of the USD.
Conclusion on causation (122) Based on the above considerations and other elements contained in recitals (121) to (138) of the provisional Regulation, it is concluded that dumped imports from Russia and the PRC have caused material injury to the Community industry within the meaning of Article 3(6) of the basic Regulation.
COMMUNITY INTEREST 1.
Financial impact on users (123) Several users reiterated their main concern that the imposition of definitive measures would have a serious adverse impact on their financial situation since they would not be able to pass on the expected increase in costs resulting from the imposition of anti-dumping measures to their customers. (124) In this regard, subsequent to provisional disclosure, five users/processors not co-operating so far were contacted and invited to fill in a questionnaire.
It was found that a number of these users were importing the majority of the granular PTFE used in their production/processing process from the countries under consideration.
These users represented a large part of the total imports from Russia and the PRC, as well as the total Community consumption.
They alleged that anti-dumping measures would have a significant impact on their profitability.
The users already co-operating prior to the imposition of provisional measures and the ones coming forward after imposition of provisional duties were also invited to submit additional information regarding their cost of production, with a view to complement the data used for the provisional findings and to allow a detailed, in-depth analysis of all aspects of the situation of different users, in particular to calculate the precise impact of the anti-dumping measures on their profitability.
For the remaining co-operating users, importing less than 30% of their raw material from the countries under consideration, the impact, under the assumption that the price increase would not even be partly passed on to their customers, was estimated at a maximum of 2.7%. (127) It should be noted, however, that the investigation confirmed also that price increases in the Community as a consequence of the imposition of anti-dumping measures will very likely be passed on to the final customer.
For these reasons, it is concluded that users will in all likelihood be able to pass on a considerable part of the cost increase to their customers, so that the estimated impact of anti-dumping measures on their profitability should in reality be much more limited than under the worst case scenario. (128) Secondly, it should be noted that, even if the price increase could not even be partly passed on, which is not a realistic hypothesis, the impact on the profitability of the above four co-operating users would not appear to be disproportionate.
This should be taken into account, when balancing the possible negative impact of measures on users against the positive effects on other interested parties, in particular the Community industry. (132) For all the above reasons, it is concluded that the likely effect of measures on users would not be disproportionate.
Imports of semi-finished and finished products (133) Certain users also claimed that they would be placed in a situation of competition distortion vis-à-vis producers in the countries concerned of semi-finished and finished products not subject to anti-dumping duties, in particular because such producers would shift their exports to the Community from granular PTFE to semi-finished and finished products.
It is noted that according to some operators in the market, imports of semi-finished products from the countries concerned indeed appeared to have an increasing trend.
Employment (136) It was also argued that the processing industry employs by far more people than the granular PTFE producers in the Community and that those jobs would be in danger should anti-dumping measures be imposed. (137) The investigation revealed that the information submitted by the users/importers organisation concerned with regard to employment was largely overestimated.
Therefore, should the Community industry disappear these jobs would be equally in danger. 4.
Finally, it was argued that reactor bead would not be sold at all in the Community, while pre-sintered grades are only produced in limited quantities in the Community, thus users would be dependent on imports from the countries under consideration. (139) It should be recalled that the Community industry’s capacity is 9,200 tons, at 80% capacity utilisation.
The argument that the Community industry would not use this free capacity to produce granular PTFE due to the low profit margins generated by the sales of this product had to be rejected.
Therefore, with the imposition of definitive anti-dumping duties prices on the Community market should recover which would also have a positive effect on the profitability. (140) As far as reactor bead is concerned, it was found that only very limited quantities were imported during the IP.
Therefore, granular PTFE, including the product types for which a shortage was alleged, from the countries concerned can continue to enter the Community market, albeit at higher price levels. (143) Based on the above considerations and other elements contained in recitals (139) to (153) of the provisional Regulation, it is concluded that no compelling reasons exist for not imposing anti-dumping measures on import of the product concerned originating in Russia and the PRC.
DEFINITIVE ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES 1.
Injury elimination level (144) Based on the methodology set out in recitals (154) to (159) of the provisional Regulation, an injury elimination level was calculated for the purpose of establishing the level of measures to be definitively imposed. (145) One of the Russian exporting producer claimed that the adjustment for differences in the level of trade should have been based on the information provided by the fully co-operating unrelated importer which accounted for the major part of its imports.
Alternatively, this exporting producer claimed that in order to calculate the adjustment for the level of trade, the CIF import price should be compared to the re-sale price of the importer in question in the Community.
However, it was found that this methodology would not lead to more reliable results than the methodology used for the provisional determinations.
In contrast, the information available, in particular the audited accounts of the importer, confirmed that the estimations made in the provisional determinations were reasonable. (146) Both Russian exporting producers also claimed that the comparison of their export price to the non-injurious price should have been made on a per model basis.
Since no reliable data on a per model basis was available, the determination of the export price of these exporting producers was based on data recorded in Eurostat.
In particular, it was argued that it should be taken into consideration that the granular PTFE market is shrinking and cost of production is increasing, therefore the Community industry would not have been able to achieve 9.3% profit in the absence of dumped imports.
In the absence of any new information, the methodology used for establishing the injury margin as described in recitals (156) to (159) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 2.
Definitive duties (149) In the light of the foregoing, it is considered that a definitive anti-dumping duty should be imposed at the level of the dumping margin found, but should not be higher than the injury margin calculated in accordance with Article 9(4) of the basic Regulation. (150) The proposed definitive duty rates, expressed as a percentage of the CIF Community border price, customs duty unpaid, are as follows: Exporting country | Injury elimination margin | Dumping margin | Proposed anti-dumping duty | People’s Republic of China | 55.5% | 99.7% | 55.5% | Russia | 40.0% | 36.6% | 36.6% | (151) In order to ensure a proper enforcement of the anti-dumping duty, the residual duty level should not only apply to the non-cooperating exporter, but also to those companies which did not have any exports during the IP.
Moreover, the investigation revealed that the accounts of the company concerned were not reliable so that the monitoring of the undertaking would have proved impractical (153) The two Russian exporting producers also made proposals for offering an undertaking.
The rate of the definitive anti-dumping duty applicable to the net, free-at-Community-frontier price, before duty, of the products described in paragraph 1, shall be as follows: Country | Rate of duty | People’s Republic of China | 55.5% | Russia | 36.6% | 3.
Article 2 The amounts secured by way of provisional anti-dumping duties pursuant to Commission Regulation (EC) No 862/2005 on imports of so called granular polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), containing not more than 3% of other monomer unit than tetrafluoroethylene, without fillers, in the form of powder or pellets, with the exclusion of micronized material, and its raw polymer (reactor bead), the latter in wet or dry form, falling within CN code ex 3904 61 00 (TARIC code 3904 61 00 50) and originating in Russia and the People’s Republic of China shall be collected at the rate of the duty definitively imposed.
Amounts secured in excess of the definitive rate of anti-dumping duties shall be released.
Article 3 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
