These instruments – Anti-Dumping, Anti-Subsidy and Safeguard measures – allow the European Union to defend its producers against unfairly traded or subsidised imports and against dramatic shifts in trade flows in so far as these are harmful to the EU economy.
It is important that we use these instruments effectively and rigorously to ensure respect of international trade rules and protect European interests against unfair trade.
Trade defence instruments have developed in international law as a means of correcting the trade distorting effects of uncompetitive practice at the international level.
Nevertheless, in the decade since the 1994 Agreement on Anti-Dumping and the last major reform of EU trade defence instruments, there have been far-reaching changes in the global economy and in the structure of the EU economy.
The Green Paper does not question the fundamental value of trade defence instruments, but invites a public reflection on how the EU can continue to use them to best effect in the European interest.
It also reflects informal contacts with EU Member States and the European Parliament and a series of papers submitted to EU Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson by experts in the field of trade defence instruments in July 2006[1].
the role of trade defence instruments in a changing global economy; 2.
the weighting of different EU interests in trade defence investigations; 3.
Box 1: Europe's trade defence instruments Anti-Dumping.
Dumping harms both EU producers but also other producers in third countries that compete for access to the EU market.
Where an EU investigation shows that these imports are harming EU producers Anti-Dumping rules allow for remedial measures to correct the injury.
Between January 1996 and December 2005, the EU imposed 194 definitive Anti-Dumping measures.
The economic justification for Anti-Dumping measures derives chiefly from the fact that international markets are imperfectly competitive – there is no international competition authority to regulate anti-competitive behaviour between countries.
Anti-Dumping measures are the only tool provided for in international law to address the effects of unfairly traded imports from such markets on EU industry.
Others argue that they could potentially be misused by sectoral interests as a means of obtaining protection from competitive imports.
Question 3: Are there alternatives to the use of trade defence instruments in the absence of internationally agreed competition rules?
Increasingly, European companies are using production bases outside the European Union whilst maintaining significant operations and employment in Europe.
From the perspective of trade defence instruments, the challenge is to consider whether EU rules take sufficient account of the reality of outsourced production by European businesses, which are then in competition with EU-based production and might be negatively affected by trade defence measures.
Although many EU companies still produce leather footwear in the European Union, a significant number of EU companies have outsourced the production of footwear to third countries while keeping other parts of their operations in the EU.
Yet the number of EU companies that are moving elements of their production is growing and these companies account for thousands of jobs in the EU.
Nonetheless, it is important to reflect on the question of whether and how consumer interests can be better reflected in Anti-Dumping investigations, and any measures taken. 2.1.
Alongside the interests of producers and their employees in Europe, how should we take into account the interests of companies which have retained significant operations and employment in Europe, even though they have moved some part of their production out of the EU?
Currently, a Community interest test is foreseen only following the initiation of an investigation at the time of determining measures.
Question 11: Should the EU consider consultations with exporting third countries after receiving complaints and prior to launching Anti-Dumping investigations? 3.2.
The use of the Anti-Subsidy instrument in transition economies.
Question 14: Should the EU change the de-minimis thresholds (in percentage and absolute terms) that currently apply to dumping and injury in trade defence investigations? 3.5.
Question 15: Should the Commission refine the approach on "start-up costs" for dumping calculations in Anti-Dumping investigations in order to give a longer "grace period" to exporters in start-up situations?
Question 16: Are there other changes to the dumping margin calculation methodology in Anti-Dumping investigations – for example existing rules on the "ordinary course of trade-test" – that need to be considered? 3.6.
Treatment of new exporters.
If yes, in what way, and at what stage? 3.8.
We address four issues in this section. 4.1.
Question 21: Should the EU make greater use of more flexible measures in Anti-Dumping and Anti-Subsidy investigations?
Question 22: Do EU measures in Anti-Dumping and Anti-Subsidy investigations need to be adapted so as to take better account of products with a long order or shipment time?
Question 23: Should it be made explicitly possible for the duration of definitive measures in Anti-Dumping and Anti-Subsidy investigations to be shorter than 5 years?
If yes, in what type of situations would a shorter duration of measures be justified? 4.3.
Question 24: Should duties collected beyond the 5-year duration of the measures in Anti-Dumping and Anti-Subsidy investigations be reimbursed if the expiry review concludes that measures are not to be continued?
Question 25: Should expiry reviews in Anti-Dumping and Anti-Subsidy investigations be timed to end on the fifth anniversary of measures rather than to start on that date? 4.4.
Question 26: Should the EU increase thresholds for expiry reviews in Anti-Dumping and Anti-Subsidy investigations?
Some parties have argued that a hearing officer would be helpful to ensure that parties in trade defence investigations can better exercise their right to be heard and to ensure that the rights of the parties are respected.
Question 28: Should the Commission conduct public hearings in Anti-Dumping investigations for decisions to award country-wide Market Economy Status to a country? 5.3.
