Communication from the Commission to the Council - Review of the derogations in Annexes II and III of Council Directive 2003/96/EC that expire by the end of 2006 /* COM/2006/0342 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 30.06.2006 COM(2006) 342 final COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE COUNCIL Review of the derogationsin Annexes II and III of Council Directive 2003/96/ECthat expire by the end of 2006 COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE COUNCIL Review of the derogations in Annexes II and III of Council Directive 2003/96/EC that expire by the end of 2006 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1.
Derogations whose objectives are taken into account through the flexibility offered by the general provisions of the Energy Tax Directive 5 2.1.1.
Differentiation in rates according to Article 5 6 2.1.2.
The specific case of public transport 6 2.1.3.
Tax differentiation applicable to certain energy products (in particular Articles 15 and 16) 6 2.1.4.
Fuel used in private pleasure air navigation 8 2.2.2.
Miscellaneous derogations 13 3.
Moreover, in its Annexes II and III, the Directive contains additional 127 derogations further authorising Member States to apply reduced rates or exemptions from energy taxation for various products and purposes[2].
Some of the derogations have already expired, and a further 111 will expire on 31 December 2006.
Derogations corresponding to objectives not taken into account by the general provisions of the Directive This group contains a further 35 derogations that are still applied by Member States but which, following their expiry, will not have any legal basis in the Directive.
These derogations cover reduced rates of taxation and exemptions: - for fuel used by private pleasure air navigation (10 cases); - for fuel used for navigation in private pleasure craft (6 cases); - for waste oils reused as fuel, either directly after recovery or following recycling, and where the reuse is subject to duty (11 cases); - for specific policy purposes in certain geographical areas (6 cases); - for other miscellaneous purposes (2 cases).
Tax differentiation applicable to certain energy products (in particular Articles 15 and 16) The Energy Tax Directive also contains various optional provisions allowing Member State to apply favourable tax treatment to certain products where justified, for example for environmental reasons (in particular under Articles 15 and 16).
Finally, as regards biofuels or other fuel blends with environmental benefit, biomass and renewables in general, Articles 15 and 16 of the Directive contain a comprehensive framework for granting favourable fiscal treatment to such products should their use become taxable under the Directive.
For example, for use as heating fuel , Article 5 allows Member States to apply differentiated levels of taxation to business and non-business uses of energy products and electricity with lower minimum levels of taxation applicable for business use.
With respect to use as motor fuel , Article 7(2) allows for tax differentiation for commercial gas oil used as propellant.
Article 8 sets significantly lower minimum levels of taxation for motor fuels used for certain agricultural, commercial and industrial purposes.
Moreover, Article 17 permits Member States to grant total or partial tax exemptions or reductions from excise duty applied on energy products and electricity used for certain purposes and under certain conditions.
Also, certain very specific uses of energy products by industry have particular provisions set out in Article 21 of the Directive (in particular in its third paragraph).
Annexes II and III contain in total 6 derogations authorising Member States for specific policy considerations to apply reduced rates of taxation or exemptions for fuel used in the navigation in private pleasure craft.
Consequently, the favourable tax treatment of fuel used for the activity in point, compared to fuel used for comparable (transport or leisure) activities, should not be renewed.
However a total of 11 Member States were authorised in the past, for specific policy considerations, to exempt from excise duty waste oils reused as fuel, either directly after recovery or following a recycling process for waste oils, in cases where such reuse would be taxable.
Should individual Member States consider that for specific policy considerations they still need a derogation from the Directive, they may submit a request to the Commission in accordance with Article 19 of the Directive.
Any such request will be assessed against its own merits, taking into account in particular the proper functioning of the internal market, the need to ensure fair competition as well as Community environment, energy and transport policies (cf.
