Case T-376/05: Action brought on 13 October 2005 — Tea-Cegos and STG v Commission Action brought on 13 October 2005 — Tea-Cegos and STG v Commission Parties Applicant(s): TEA-CEGOS (Madrid, Spain) and Services Techniques Globaux (STG) (Brussels, Belgium) (represented by: G.Vandersanden and L.
It tendered for lot No 7 %quot%Culture, Governance and Home Affairs%quot%.
On 20 May 2004, the consortium was informed by post that its candidature had been accepted.
By letter of 18 July 2005, the defendant informed it that it considered it necessary to review its decision awarding it the framework contract, and justified that change by the fact that the decision in question had been taken on the basis of inaccurate information communicated during the procedure.
By the first, they claim that the defendant was in breach of the contractual documents inasmuch as it misapplied Article 13 of the contract notice and Article 14 of the instructions to tenderers.
The applicants claim that Article 13 of the contract notice was not applicable when an award decision had already been taken.
They also submit that they did not fail to communicate the documents requested by the defendant or supply false information, so the conditions for applying Article 14 of the instructions to tenderers, which would alone justify the decision awarding the contract being challenged at that stage of the procedure, had not been fulfilled.
Secondly, the applicants claim that the defendant made a manifest error of assessment of the concept of %quot%legal group%quot% in Article 13 of the contract notice, by taking into account only the structural criterion and excluding application of the test of conflict of interest between candidates in the same call for tenders.
They claim that, in this case, the decision awarding the contract was not unlawful and, accordingly, could not be withdrawn by the defendant. [1] Contract notice for a multiple framework contract %quot%Multiple framework contract to recruit technical assistance for short-term expertise for the exclusive benefit of third countries benefiting from the European Commission's external aid%quot% 2004/S 132-111932, OJ S 132. --------------------------------------------------
