This fortified the pass, and banks the river with stockades, and having taken the town of San Miguel dos iron guns, and made haste to all other Five of hard wood (llámanla Tajibo, and the Indians Tayi) were posted to defend the referral Miguelistas step.
Insensibly others returned to their villages neighbors, to care for, as they said, to save them wives, children and daughters. 111.
the town of San Miguel were also fled to the Piratini, not saving any of the people San Miguel, but hidden here and there, and buried things went.
This was due to lack of oxen and horses that carry the dishes in cars, because in these days, moving, as usual, a dissension between Indians do not know why suspect, originated from, which have made horses to a fellow named Tary, who had gone over to the enemies, that he's had enough fat, coming from the Spanish in others weak and exhausted, as the soldiers other peoples, to those poor Miguelistas removed almost all horses and oxen.
From here was born that, after departure of the PP., soldiers of other nations, especially San Nicolas, the angels and Thomists, caught all baggage and supplies that had been left in the village, Having smashed the doors and beat up the porter, is taken as found, and after the house ransacked PP., he set fire, which, taking shape on the roofs, discovered many things that were hidden in the paneling, leaving it prey to the Indians who did not drink.
Also set fire to the town, but the heavy rain that fell tonight put out the fire, burning all the house of the PP., but not the church, to which spared the flames, if tackled dudándose patron saint of San Miguel, or by high walls stone. 115.
Meanwhile, Fr., With all the common people, became very rainy night in the field without tents.
However, trageron the next day, May 13, and the people having been locked in the women faculty, which call collected, as they saw the flames, and they suspected that was severely beaten doors, and out of place the loose, and San Angel took them to his people.
