CHAPTER III And the beat fluttered thousand beauties Who wore fantastic costumes, And to me that the views offered Of an Eastern poet.
PALMA That night [30] Theatre of Havana chose his elegance in the Philharmonic Society.
Shone there in all its splendor and fine taste of the ladies, as well as the size decent gentlemen.
In addition to the usual members and guests attended the Lords Consuls of foreign nations, the officers of the garrison and the Royal Navy, the General Captain assistants and some other notables for their character and circumstances as were the son of the famous Marshal Ney, who was traveling, and the Dutch consul in New York.
Made themselves notable tulle dresses embroidered with silver and gold on white satin background, being trendy and equal to that Mme.
Minette was in Paris for the current sovereign Spain.
The sleeves of this outfit known by the name of the Cristina, were short, Abobo and trimmed the bottom with lace too wide.
Were also other tulle delicately embroidered with a lot on blue background.
Likewise drew widespread attention tulle dresses with white satin lining on pointe found, they adorned narrow lace sleeves to Cristina.
Others like the latter, but with different fittings, could be observed, without leave to be many more whose elegance and taste desmerecían nothing to those already described.
Egyptians wore a turban, some white feathers very neatly made, the most, giraffes of all sizes, decorated with blue flowers or white, keeping union with the color of the suit, and some had gold loops gracefully placed.
It was great and beautiful the effect produced by the gathering of so many and so beautiful dandies.
He encouraged the audience a complete joy, and overflowing with the smile of all.
The label, which generally characterizes the dances of the Company was not rather than the ladies' dresses and costumes of the men, who wore a contention his embroidered uniform gentlemen, generals, the brigadier, colonels, senior employees, Cadaval Lemaur their red sashes and silk, whereas those who had not title and awards were content with the latest Paris fashion in such meetings.
Headpiece adorned the main hall the magnificent canopy, which occupied the center portrait King Ferdinand VII.
The wall panels supported historical paintings and cornices hung a curtain of blue damask trimmed with white flags with bright fringes silk, supported by Roman gold ornaments and nails, which fell gracefully cords and silk tassels.
The ceiling of the room was wearing the same apricot color hanging.
Began about ten o'clock and eleven dancing the main hall was completely full.
In between sherbet and soft drinks of all kinds in large silver trays supported by lackeys.
The women who preferred to take them out of the room they had prepared for this purpose a well lit room, where he was raised pastries and ready to serve them, but the politics and manners of the members and guests were saved a job for men becomes pleasure when used in the service of ladies.
The dinner began between 0:01 am and consisted of turkey bologna, ham Westphalia, cheese, GIGOT excellent garment-old, fresh, dried, preserves, liqueur wines Spain and abroad, delicious chocolate, coffee and fruits of all countries in trade the island of Cuba.
It was most remarkable that, racing the magnificence of the table with her prodigal abundance, but the food did not cost the job of ordering.
Can say without fear of contradiction that the elegance and beauty of Havana had met that night at the Philharmonic Society.
Because there was the Marchioness of Arcos, daughter of the famous Marquis de Pedro Calvo, Luisa, his eldest daughter, then fifteen years old.
For this was improvised Plácido those lines: He went fluttering The exquisite atmosphere Parched mosquitoes, Juice of flowers looking; Came to your mouth, and thinking That was a rose or carnation, Introduced in it, Because there loves pleasure Sweet died in your throat, Like a glass of honey.
Chacón sisters there, they deserved for their beauty appear on the large canvas painting by Vermay [31] to perpetuate the memory of the mass celebrated at the opening of the Temple Plaza de Armas.
There the Montalvo, Teutonic type, one of which was declared beauty queen, when the rod run last year, in the old Plaza de Toros Champ de Mars, where the Arango, famous for contributing to the avoidance of the poet Heredia and then married a Captain Field Assistant General Ricafort; there sisters Aceval, Venus de Milo in the forms, so distinguished for his talent as for his unhappy passions Alcázar sisters there, models of perfection, and by the symmetry of their tiny factions, as the roses in her cheeks and the black of her hair there the Junco and Lamar, of Matanzas, known under the vocative poetry of the Nymphs of Yumurí; there Gamboa's three sisters, which we have already had occasion to describe him up there Topete daughter of General Commander of the Naval Station in Havana, which later inspired his Palma immortal "Fifteen of August," there's less of Gamez, Venus Belvedere, whose brown hair, copious wavy, wore loose star-studded gold, there, in order, inter many too numerous to list, Ilincheta Isabel, daughter of former adviser of Captain Someruelos General, who had the main features of severe type, modest Celtiberian, it owed its origin.
As models of manly beauty, among the young attendees of the dance company that night, could be mentioned Sunspear Lieutenant Colonel Rey, Rafael de la Torre, who died a few days later crashed into the wheels of the chitin in the Walk, along the statue of Carlos III, a victim of the fire of his horse and O'Gavan Bernardo Echeverría, in the days of gala liked to wear the uniform of Chamber gentleman with input insofar as it might look well-made and plump legs, Ramón Montalvo in his prime age, beautiful as the pure English blood, Joseph Gaston, the true Apollo of Cuba; Dionisio Mantilla, newly arrived from France, which had made a compliment Paris; Diego Duarte, the happy winner of the runs of reeds held the previous year, due to the marriage of Ferdinand Maria Cristina of Naples, several naval officers and Spanish army in their colorful uniforms, more appropriate to a stop a particular dance.
Also contributing to the luster of the festival the presence of some young people who began to distinguish in the cultivation of letters, namely: Palma, who had been one of the competitors in the race of reeds used in the Finance Echeverría, who the following year achieved the award in poetry contest launched by the Literature Committee, to celebrate the birth of the Infanta of Castile, Isabella of Bourbon Valdés Machuca, known as helpless in the republic letters; Policarpo Valdes, who was signed Polidoro, Anacleto Bermudez, who used to publish verses under the name of delight, Manuel Garay y Heredia, which printed his poems in The Aurora Matanzas, Velez Herrera, the Cuban romance author Elvira de Oquendo, Delio, the singer the ruins of the Alhambra, Domingo André, a young lawyer, eloquent and polite, Domingo del Monte, Cuba introduced the romance of wide-ranging expertise and very distinguished bearing.
Diego Meneses, Francisco Solfa, Leonardo Gamboa and several others who were also in dance, with the exception of the second was given to philosophical studies, and the third and entering into the wealthy class, were not made notable by his talent, although the three used writing in the literary journals, and the last went further by good-looking boy and masculine forms.
The literati, or rather, fans of the lyrics, especially who cultivated poetry, began to have entry to people who could be taken by noble in Cuba, or aspiring, for his wealth, nobility and alternated with her.
Showed at least distinction by including some titled families of Havana and appealed to their parties and meetings, including, for example, the counts of Fernandina, the Bayonne house, the house Peñalver, the Marquis of Montehermoso and Arc.
These parties and meetings in the days Christmas Easter moved the prettiest coffee in San Antonio, Alquízar, San Andrés and Artemis, who belonged to the wealthy.
Were not in the halls of our friends Gamble Company, Meneses and Solfa but until about eleven o'clock at night.
During the early hours had been visiting Fair balls Angel, Farruco and de Brito, not to mention the birthplace of people of color, Stonehouse Street, between Compostela and Avocado.
In none of these sites They had taken an active part, excepting the first, who lost the game Mount in an instant the two ounces of gold that same evening he had put his mother in the vest pocket.
He knew the value of money or playing for the love of gain, but for the sake of the excitement of the moment, but it happened that the dances did not pay attractive none, defected to the pretty girls, who failed to see Cecilia Valdés in the window home, or in the crib, all of which conspired to put it a very bad mood.
To Unfortunate auction when losing and became upset with his friends in search of chitin, I had left on the street bet Avocado away from the high walls of the convent Santa Catalina, he discovered that was not there, nor was it possible to find half an hour later and point opposite and distant.
Moreover, the coachman asked about the reason that led him to disobey an order strict his young master, gave evasive answers to the top, and finally, tight, said a stranger, half covered his face with a handkerchief, he had been forced to leave position and pretend to be returned home, using dire threats.
Aponte could not say whether the unknown was military or civilian, district commissioner or magistrate, a white man or colored.
Maybe was an unexpected and unknown rival in that way was preparing to dispute the love Cecilia Valdés.
Corroborated unpleasant suspicion that neither she nor her friend had Nemesia presented in any part of the show Angel.
Besides that, the fact of not having open the window, even when Gamboa was the agreed signal from the tip of the cane for few balusters that still had almost left no doubt that something extraordinary had occurred in humble, dark home.
But this is what it may, there is no time to check now, Leonardo Gamboa entered the dance of the Philharmonic worried and very bad mood.
Navy, however, the dance, in the main hall of the palace and the room quite spacious by the way, says the poet One night last, between crystals Light shimmered in the classroom; And the blood inflamed his sones, Tropical dance; our hero could not avoid its overpowering influence.
The orchestra, directed by the famous Ulpiano violinist, held the very wide corridor on the left hand as she climbs the the royal dark stone staircase.
Then, right, was the door of the room, opposite another that was about the most spacious balconies, which were called the gates of the Rosary.
Left hats and canes in the hands of a black servant at the door of a room mezzanine open the rest of the double-leg ladder, and tending the hearing by the magnificent hall, which could have "a horse race," if we are allowed to exaggerate, students discovered that they filled animated couples end to end.
Received back men and women face as they waited their turn to sieve the fresh air of midnight, coming through the doors and windows wide open.
As we said before, there were assembled the cream and flower of Cuban Youth of both sexes, delivered, for the moment at least, with soul and body to your favorite.
And in the glare of the chandeliers, in waves of music as plaintive as voluptuous, because it comes from the heart of an enslaved people, the subtle through the cloud of dust raised by the dancers with their feet, women seemed more beautiful, the gallant men.
Gamboa took, of course, in seeking partner to take part in the dance, but not liked, but Meneses, who rarely danced, and Solfa, who never danced, they were viewers in the middle of the room, watching the last, with a bitter smile, that while that crazy youth at home enjoyed the pleasures of the moment, the most stupid and brutal of the kings of Spain seemed to contemplate with an air of utter contempt from gold canopy where they saw his picture painted hateful.
Walking with some difficulty between the crowded rows of spectators and dancers, stumbled Gamboa with the youngest of the girls Gamez, whose portrait we made up pen flies in as committed to dance.
In all regards, while pivoting as a sylph in arms your partner, "she said before the eyes than the tongue: - Here is Isabel. - Dancing?
As a tris not come to the dance tonight.
In fact, that young lady was at that time in any appearance eating turkey, as reads vulgar phrase in Cuba, ie, sitting to the left, near the door of the room between a middle-aged woman and the cult lawyer Domingo André, who held animated conversation.
Despite his carefree nature, Gamboa felt a surge of jealousy it was impossible to suppress, not because they were really in love, but because the gentleman in whose company he found, was handsome and knew Asaz insinuate themselves into the minds of women discrete.
In passing, we should say, however, that the northern compliments by André that time, they went to another beauty very different from Isabel Ilincheta, it lost by shy and daring won for the writer Dominican Domingo del Monte, if we're not wrong on the night that we are talking about.
As far as Elizabeth, Leonardo received with an adorable smile, which, far from reassuring, was party to cause further distress.
I can not make, Therefore, a better time as I see it.
So they say you better be on time to be around a year. - I cried the gallant lawyer, the fact is that few of us good girls that we time.
André was greeted and joined the choir at Aldama potentate two daughters, of whom the youngest, named Lola, was down to very few that night coveted palm of beauty.
Meanwhile Leonardo and Isabella, holding his hand, reached into the ranks of dance, not far from the head, through mutual friends for that, but arrived late, left them no join the queue, as was de rigueur.
The Cuban dance without a doubt that was invented to be court lovers.
The dance itself is very simple, comfortable and easy movements, being its primary purpose the approximation of the sexes, in a country where the Moorish customs tend to their separation, in short, the communion of souls.
Because the gentleman has the lady almost always on edge, so that while with his right arm around her waist, with the left hand pressed hers softly.
Is not that dance, as the body is merely the bars, is rocking like a dream, to the sound of music gemidora and voluptuous, it is two people talking intimately dear is stroking two beings attract each other, and that time, space, status, custom has kept away.
She was tall, shapely, slender and elegantly dressed, So be very discreet and friendly, is said to draw the attention of the educated.
To smooth pallor of her face, languid expression of his clear eyes and thin lips, contributed to make it attractive to a young man who, on the other hand, there was nothing beautiful.
Entered puberty when she lost her mother, and to educate, as well as to free it of the dangers of the world, her father placed in the care of Ursuline Sisters, coming from New Orleans and settled in their convent door Earth since early this century.
After a boarding more than four years, he received religious education before scholarly, comprehensive, retired to the country, in the coffee plantation his father, near the town of Alquízar, along with her younger sister and an aunt Rosa, widow a naval surgeon, named Bohorques.
This individual had made several trips to the coast of Africa in shipments released on behalf of the Society of Gamboa and White.
These result contracted a terrible disease, died on the journey and thrown into the water, which many of the unhappy savages who had helped to plagiarizing from his native soil.
On more than one occasion was the widow, on this subject, the object of the bounty of Don Candido Gamboa.
Leonardo visited her in the coffee plantation Alquízar, and could not help falling in love and niece, whose modesty and thanks enhanced her clear intelligence and fine discretion.
There was nothing feminine roundness, and, of course, or pleasure, we have already mentioned, in the forms of Isabel.
And the reason was obvious: the pursuit on horseback, his favorite pastime in the field, often swimming in the river of San Andres and San Juan de Contreras where all the years spent bathing season, walks almost daily in the coffee his father and the neighbors, their frequent exposure to the weather for fun and because of his active life, had strengthened and developed his physique to the point to make him lose the soft, rounded forms of the young men of his age and status.
For lacked nothing manly and determined air of his person, should be added that shaded his mouth expressive a dark mustache and silky, which was only one common tonsure to become in black mustache and village.
Following this bozo sometimes sticking white teeth, young and even, and behold what was the magic of the smile of Elizabeth.
No wonder that, being somewhat skeptical and Leonardo off, felt a passion for a young woman such as the one just described.
He came by the golden gates of life.
Despite its connotations and its wealth, had not yet had intercourse with women their area and education, and had begun to look at them nor their future companion life.
His roughness was only external, was in his brusque manner, because there in the bottom of his chest, as you have occasion to observe, there were endless stream of generosity tenderness of feeling.
God, that, had not denied the ability to love, only the women they had met up there, or had yielded to the impetuosity of his affections, at the fearlessness of his few years, or the influence of his golden shower.
None of these mobile could have influence on the mind of a young rich, well educated, modest and virtuous as Isabel Ilincheta.
Leonardo attracted first by their physical clothes, seduced then by his outstanding moral qualities, of course understood that to win her affection was playing strength your heart, speak to your understanding.
Moreover, the woman who appeared to Leonardo's eyes in a new light, inhabited the transcript of the earthly paradise where saw for the first time.
If we can dispense with the slave and of his sufferings, which are, however, more bearable in coffee, it will agree that Elizabeth, her sister Rosa, his aunt Juana, his father and raised, lived a life of peace and quiet away from the bustle of the city, surrounded by fragrant flowers, the trees and evergreen orange, the graceful palms, the classic plantain, perennial astounded with the singing of the birds and the rustle of the breeze melancholy in the fields of Cuba.
