The people who want to overextend their borders, is often narrower than required by the natural, the conqueror who is determined to earn crown on his head, eventually losing all, who is not satisfied with the vast domain empires, will be consumed in a solitary rock in the vastness of the ocean.
Covet castle of a monarch, and lose the domestic hearth, dream on a throne and find a gallows. § XXXIV.
Observations on the advantages and disadvantages of virtue in business.
God has not left defenseless its laws, he has shielded all the just punishment, punishment which usually is experienced in this life.
For this reason the calculations based on the interest in opposition to morality, are heavily exposed to failed out, entangling the immorality in their own bonds.
But do not think that with this I want to deny that man virtuoso is found often in extremely disadvantageous position to compete with an opponent immoral.
Do not deny that in any case it is more likely to achieve an end which may use any means not notice any, as does the bad man, and that no longer be a grave obstacle to have to rely on very few resources or perhaps only one, as it happens to the virtuous, because it is immoral for him as if he might be; but while this is true by considering a single business, is not less than walking the time, the disadvantages of virtue is offset by the advantages, as well as the advantages vice is offset by the disadvantages, and which ultimately result, a true man come straight to reap the fruits of your righteousness discreetly reaching the end proposed; and that the immoral expiate their sins, sooner or later, finding the debauchery at the tip its evil and devious ways. § XXXV.
The virtuous and unfortunate, have a propensity to identify their strengths as the origin of their misfortunes, as they tend to these things together the desire to flaunt their virtue, and to hide their indiscretions, that very great imprudence also committed to the intention straighter and more pure.
Virtue teaches us the way we follow, but are not responsible for discovering all the links that it can be found: this is the work of penetration, of foresight, of good sense, ie a clear understanding and sensible.
As a loyal friend of humanity without reluctance houses in the heart of all kinds of men; now they shine in the sun shining and pure intelligence, now is dark with thick fog. § XXXVI.
Defense of wisdom against unfounded accusation.
The knowledge and the virtues of the creature, is not perhaps emanating from a single source of high sea of light and holiness, which is God?
Infinite wisdom would be infinite evil, and HEOS here in the Manichaean error, finding at the end of the scale of Reres a bad principle.
worse off this error than that of Manes, because in it, could not support a good start.
The genius of bad chair without rival, entirely alone, to destinations around the world, the king of the underworld should place your throne in glittering black lava regions of the Empyrean.
No, no man should flee from the light for fear of falling into evil, the truth is not afraid of light, and the moral good is a great truth.
The more enlightened understanding is best known the ineffable beauty of virtue, and knowing better, have less difficulty in practice.
Rarely is there much elevation on the ideas, without involving her feelings and or elevated feelings born of the same virtue, or are a disposition well adapted to achieve.
Up there for the talent and know a reason based on the nature of the powers the soul.
Everyone knows that usually the lot of development of the one is with some damage the other, therefore, when man to unfold in a particular way the higher faculties wane in strength gross passions, origin of the defects.
For in an evil of great talent all think, of an evil fool nobody remembers, because form a vivid contrast iniquity and great knowledge, and this contrast becomes more remarkable end ugly for the same reason that more repairs on the relaxation of a priest in of a layman.
Nobody notices a patch but in a very dirty glass, but in another very clean and brilliant, is presented from the eyes then the smallest moon. § XXXVII.
When we try to run something, the passions are sometimes a good assistant, but to prepare in our understanding, are directors very dangerous.
The man without passion would be cool, would have some inert, lacking one of the principles powers other than God has given to human nature, but instead the man dominated by the blind passions and rushes to the objects to the manner of brutes.
Carefully examining the mode of action of our faculties, is easy to see that the reason is to aim to lead, and passions to run, and so is that this serves not only the present but also to the past and to come, when they look at the object alone so it is at present, and the manner in which it affects us.
And the reason is that as true director is responsible for everything that can harm or favor, not only now but also in the future, but the passions involved solely in the run, just look the moment and present posters.
The reason for not only pleasure but profit, in morality, decency, decorum dispense passions, morality, utility, everything that is not the impression pleasant or unpleasant, that the act is experienced. § XXXVIII.
The hypocrisy of the passions.
When I speak of passion, I mean not only to the strong tendencies, violent stormy waving our hearts as the ocean winds, those treated well softer, more spiritual, so to speak, because apparently are closer to the high regions of the spirit, and often surnamed feelings.
The passions are the same vary only by its form, or rather by the graduation of intensity, and mode of address to its object.
Are thus more sensitive, but no less formidable, for that very delicate contributes to more easily entice and mislead us.
When the passion is presented in all its deformity and violence, severely shaking the spirit and endeavoring to drag him over bad roads, the spirit cautions against the adversary, is prepared to fight, perhaps resulting in the same impetuosity of attack causes a heroic defense.
But if the passion aside their violent ways, if stripped, so to speak, of their coarse robes, covering with the mantle of reason, if their suggestions are called knowledge, and dispositions will, enlightened but determined, then take for treason a place that would not have taken by assault. § XXXIX.
A man has been caused by an offense, is a pretension in the success of which can decisively influence the victim.
The victim is in your hands, do not let go; CEBAT it; quenched at it your thirst for revenge.
Have children, and perish ....
to perish, has parents and die of grief ....
die, and more points will be injured in his infamous heart; bleed so more abundantly, so there is no consolation to him, so far Filled his affliction, and pour it on your chest villain all the gall and bitterness that he spilled a day in yours.
Revengeful, vindictive laugh a generosity that he did not practice with you, look not pity he was not from you, he is unworthy of your favor, unworthy of compassion, unworthy of forgiveness, vengeful, vindictive. " Thus says the hatred excited by anger, but this language is too hard and cruel for no offend a generous heart.
Another might have been the result, if the spirit of revenge had taken another form less hard, if covering his face with masks lied, had not shown his face fierce.
Should not give discordant screams, horrible screams, it was necessary for enveloped and refolded but hidden within the heart, had distilled from there its deadly poison. "Certainly, was to say that the offender is not worthy of getting what you intended, and just this reason should oppose you get it.
He is injury, it is true, but is now an opportunity of remember it.
Not be the person presiding resentment thy conduct, but the reason, the hope that something of such entity does not go into the wrong hands.
The claimant did not lacks some good arrangements for performance, why not do this justice?
The offense did to you he wishes well, you do not remember it for revenge, but to form an accurate assessment.
Feel a keen pleasure secret and otherwise, in gloom, in losing, but this feeling do not dominate; just drives you the desire for good, and indeed that if there is no other reason resentment, do not put any obstacle to his designs.
So perhaps, would he sacrifice favor him, and indeed it would be painful, very painful, but maybe you resign to it.
But do not you stand in this case, fortunately the reason, prudence, justice agree with the inclinations of your heart, and well considered, or even attend them, experience pleasure in damage to your enemy, but this pleasure is a natural expansion, which you do not reach to destroy, but rather subject you not to let it dominate you.
No no harm in making such orders as appropriate.
Are not passions so scary when presented as they are in themselves, speaking openly to his subject, trampling and impetuously as they are put forward.
Experience teaches that what is missing man to do good, no is speculative and general knowledge, but practical, detailed, with application to all acts of life.
