As misguided Bocherini not walk, was to say that he was more pleased with Titian Velázquez, which is known, not because he deliberately imitated, but because he saw that even works of poetry by giving more space, also sought to reflect life with powerful intensity.
The contemplation of the wonderful ancient and modern works gathered in Rome, dealing with Distinguished artists, negotiations and proceedings followed to bring to Spain fresco and purchase the paintings that Philip IV had been charged, were ample reasons to Velazquez was in the city of the Popes occupied much to his taste, but the King was beginning to get impatient, having sent for him, for the traces, which it repeatedly without the artist hasten to obey.
So it seems that eager to visit Paris, called passport return to France.
Said Philip IV and his ambassador in Rome, the Duke of Infantry: "I saw your letter of November 6 last year, when I realize what was going Velázquez at work, as his care, and they know his phlegm, it is well that ye not execute the arrest in that court, but later the conclusion of the work and partencia far as possible, and so that by late May or early June can make your passage to these realms, as it is high if it sent orders arrangement dello's work, and so what you order, and that in order to this we asistáis far as possible, that for ease dello shipping to send the Count of Onate, to assist you with the money has stopped sending him, as it may need, because you have no excuse or pretext be obliged to defer, and because together we have commanded that I bring to this court Peter of Cortona, painter of the fresco, and to adjust the way it had to be, draws upon our authority.
We also request that knowing the state has settled who comes to serve me, because I also send a command to the Count of Oñate attend so that this as necessary, which take effect solicitéis, lack of people in here of his ministry, and that either have to make your journey by sea, you are offered also the way in which they make their passage, because shipping to send Velázquez not do it for land, so it could be stopped, and more with its natural, and so agree with this budget is understood, I have commissioned you to have your partencia, and in order to it must find in you the assistance that is necessary for compliance, as I promise of the attention with which you act on what runs through your care.
Madrid, February 1650. "[63].
We tried nothing less than the memory of Velázquez published by his pupil Juan de Alfaro [68].
The Academy included content in his own memoirs [69] and Castro wrote for the occasion a prologue in which he realized that the monk Jerome Fray Francisco de los Santos, in Brief description of the San Lorenzo el Real, published in 1657, had plagiarized from this report, Palomino pointed to numerous paragraphs, where those paintings are described, followed critical considerations.
As some of these exceed discretion and artistic sense to those of that nature wrote the monk, and as well taken in the same book, without admitting, pieces of the history of San Jerónimo, P.
Sigüenza, gave himself up for sure and certain that the gift de Castro to the Academy was Velázquez memory loss.
Just put Villamil Crusade in doubt, but artists and writers were enthusiastic about the idea of ??tasting assessments and judgments as Velázquez in its jurisdiction.
Even in this resonated abroad rejoicing, and Baron Davillier luxuriously reprinted the book edited and translated by Alfaro French, putting forward a Velazquez portrait etched by Fortuny [70].
Finally, Menéndez Pelayo in his admirable history of aesthetic ideas in Spain, accepted also authenticity.
Justi, relying a thorough examination, denied that the report may be de Velázquez, alleges, among other reasons, unique in that Alfaro, on the cover of their booklet, says that Velazquez was a knight knight of Santiago in 1658, when it was not until the following year, and also played positions in the palace, in the exercise had ceased to be quartermaster: also states that judgments contained in that letter before are devout person's own artist.
Beruete, based primarily on this same consideration, argues that the findings in the statement are unworthy of an artist the likes of Velázquez, who does not supposed author even inspiring those paragraphs.
Even the Menéndez Pelayo, after examining the copy given by Castro to the Academy, in view of the guys that is printed and the lack of license, improper time thing it's supposed fact may be suspected is an illusion of bibliomaniac similar to those attributed to the Earl of Saceda, which seems made something with Nebrija Grammar and the Dialogues of Pedro Mejía.
As Palomino to write the life of Velázquez declares that it is the main thing John de Alfaro, and then at the latter says that "left in his plundering some books and papers very courtiers, among them some notes on the life of Velázquez, his teacher, "and as In addition, Fray Francisco de los Santos was not a paragon of literary integrity, was excusable that is easily believed in the authenticity of the booklet, but these considerations lose all his strength to think for delivery in the monastery of pictures that were already known, Velázquez did not need to write a critical study: it was enough for the occasion a list explain to the men what they received, and which knew the King who had been their orders fulfilled.
Don Pedro de Madrazo explains this double aspect of the execution, saying that the sitter is Dona Maria Teresa of Austria's daughter Felipe IV, from his first marriage, that Velázquez had painted the head before taking the second trip to Italy, according to his way then, leaving broken and that later, back, finish it in his later years, when it comes to marriage of the Infanta to Louis XIV of France. "That explains why - he says - a portrait executed in general with such freedom and sobriety so wise and so it belongs to last and best time of Velázquez, representing themselves as a child of ten years, which was already about twenty, when the great artist painted of the wonderful and unique way. "
