So did the Incas in this, that drove so much gold and silver mining in the kingdom, that must have year they took more than fifty thousand pounds of silver, and more than fifteen gold mill, and always drew these metals for his service.
And these metals were brought to the heads of provinces, and the manner and order that were taken out in ones, were taken out in the other, all the kingdom, and if there were no metal to draw in other lands, so that they could contribute, breasts and pour cast of little things, and wives and kids; which were taken from people without any regret, for if a man had only one son or daughter, this may not drank, but did have three or four, one to pay Tomabal service.
Other nations contributing to many loads of corn mill as it had houses, which each harvest was given [57] and at the expense of the same province.
In other regions provided by MESMA order of many loads of potato starch [58] and the others to dry corn, which they made others, and contributed to quinoa [59] and the other roots.
Elsewhere many gave each Indian blankets as he had married, and in others as many shirts as they were headed.
In other was put on taxation that would help with so many mill loads of lances, and others with deep and ayllos with all other weapons they use.
In other provinces sent to place such Indian mill jobs in Cuzco, for that would make public buildings in the city and of kings, providing necessary maintenance.
Other taxes ropes to carry stones, other taxes coca.
So this was done, since most often to Most importantly they paid tribute to the Incas all provinces and regions of Peru, in hobo so great that order, that neither the natives and left to pay the due and taxes nor have took the dare such charges carry a grain of corn too.
And all maintenance and things pertaining to the proveimiento of war, which contributed, is despendia people in war or in the ordinary fittings questa placed on parts of the kingdom for the defense.
And when there was no war, more of everything they ate and spent the poor, because they're the kings of Cuzco, they had their yanaconas [60], which is the name of servant perpetual, and so many that were enough to till their fields and their houses and plant maintenance both that enough, without which your dish is brought from the regions always, many sheep and poultry and fish, corn, coca leaves, roots, fruits as they are caught.
And such order had in these taxes paid to the natives, and the Incas were so powerful that they had no War is no regrowth.
To learn how, and how the taxes were paid and grabbed the other spill, each wadding, which is the name of the year, dispatched some dried apricots as a judge of commission, because had to look over the provinces and give notice to the residents if anyone was offended and tell him to complain, to punish those who would have made any sinjusticia, and received complaints, if there were, or understood if somewhere something is left to pay, given the back to Cuzco, which he left another who had power to punish guilt.
Without this diligence, is to a larger one, which was, from time to time seemed the main the provinces, where the day to each nation was allowed to talk, proposed front of Lord the state of the province and the need or fill that she had, and the tax if was much or little, or if they could pay or not, to which were released to his will, while Inca lords certain he was not lying, but I told the truth, because if there was caution did great punishment and increase the tax.
The women who gave the provinces, Dellas brought them to Cuzco for what they were kings, and from hers left in the temple of the sun.
For many dried apricots effects are consistent in Cuzco gave me the relationship, which formerly time of the Inca kings, was sent to all peoples and provinces of Peru, which lords and their delegates knew each year, both men and women who had been dead, and all who were born, for so to pay tribute, as know the people who were for the war and he could be in defense of the people, agreement that had it, which could easily find out, because each province, in the end of the year quipos sent settle in for the account of its nodes all men who had died there in that year, and the [with] following which they were born.
And earlier this year that went out, came with the equipment to the Cuzco, which he understood well that in that year were born, such as missing to be dead.
And there was this great truth and certainty, not at all be fraud or deception.
And understand this, they knew the Lord and the governors desto Indians were poor and the women who were widowed, and although they could pay taxes, and how many people could go to war, and many other things that between them had however important.
And as long as this kingdom, as in many parts of the scripture I have said, and Each province had large number of main tanks filled with maintenance and other things necessary and useful for provehimiento of men if there was war, spent, wherever they were real ones, of the quest in these rooms, without touching on what the Confederates had their own, nor gather any thing to their people that hobiese, and if not War had, all the multitude of maintenance that had, was distributed to poor and widows.
The poor were to be those who were old too, those who were lame, maimed or toll, or other diseases toviesen, because if they were healthy, nothing will sent to.
And then there were tornadoes to swell the deposits with the taxes that were required to give, and if any case had many years of infertility, and sent tanks to open mesmo to the provinces and provide the necessary maintenance and then, in the year hobiese fill, I gave and returned on their own and as true.
While tributes were given to the Incas not useful for other things for these was well spent, because his kingdom had so sick and well provided.
Would not consent to any Haragan and wandered about stealing the work of others, but to all sent work.
And so, every lord, in a few days, went to his chácara and took the plow in seasoned hands and the earth, working on other things.
And yet they did the Incas themselves, as it was by itself a good example of, because you had to have understood that there was no have none so rich that he wanted to be insults and insult the poor, and with your order there was none that was in all his land, because, having health, work and do not missing, and being without it, provided he deposits necessary.
Neither could any rich bring more herding or ornament of the poor, or differentiate the dress and suit, except to the curacas lords and that these, by his own dignity, they could use large franchises and freedoms and do the same, the apricots, which all nations were retired.
XX .-- How the governors had made in the provinces, and how they had the kings, when they went to visit, and how they were armed with a few snakes OUNTY sticks.
However true it learns of the kings of this kingdom, at the time of his lordship and kingship had in all provincial capitals - as were Vilcas, Xauxa, Bombon, Cajamarca, Guancabamba, Tomebamba, Latacunga [61], Quito, Carangui, and on the other side of Cuzco, about noon, Hatuncana, Hatuncolla, Ayavire, Chuquiabo, Chucuito, Paria, and others going to Chile - its delegates, because in these places had more rooms and more cousins ??than in many other people of this great kingdom, and many deposits, and resembled the heads of provinces or regions, because so many leagues came to the tribute to one WITH THESE headers, and so to so, went to another, having in this regard so that people no longer had known where he had to go.
And in all these Kings had headers sun temples and home foundry and many silversmiths, they did not understand all the time in more than in rich styling pieces of gold, silver or great vessels, and there were many people in garrison, and as I said, steward or delegate who was above all and to whom the bill came as he entered, and was obliged to give what came out.
And these such governors could not intrude in sending in the jurisdiction agena and I had to post another one like him, but where he was, if there was some scandal and turmoil, had power to punish, and more if it was a matter of conspiracy or get up some tyrant, or of wanting to deny the obidient the king, it is certain that was in full force these governors.
And if the Incas did not fall into them and that mitimaes would often rise up the natives and Esim real self-control; but with so many people of both war and proveimiento of maintenance, could not, if between all the ones and others not hobiese plot of treason or uprising, which had few Sometimes, because these governors that they got, were of great trust, and all dried apricots and Dell had more than their chacaras, which are inherited in the region of Cuzco, and their houses and relatives, and if one did not come out enough to govern what I had to post after he was removed from command and put another in place.
And these, if in some time came to Cuzco to private businesses or individuals with the Kings, lieutenants left in their places, not to what they wanted, but those who knew they would do [62] more accurately what they had ordered, and more to the service of the Incas.
And if anyone desto governors or delegates dying in his presidency, natural, how and what was dead sent in haste or probanza dello reason the Lord, and even the bodies of the dead took the path of the posts, if Vian was proper.
What each term taxed WITH THESE headers and helped the natives, and gold, silver, and clothing and weapons, with everything else they gave, was handed over to the account that had the quipos Camay, which made everything that I was sent this regard to losse these things with people war, or repartillo with whom the Lord commanded, or to carry them to Cuzco, but when Cuzco came to take the account, or to which they were to give to Cuzco, the mesmos quipos counters with the giving or came to the giving to where there could be fraud, but all had to be fair.
And a few years spent without accounting and reason of all these things.
These governors had great authority and power enough to raise armies and bring people together war, if it Recresco Supit any embarrassment or uprising, or to come any strange people somewhere to make war, and were before the Lord honored and privileged; and on this occasion remained, when the Spanish came, many of them with perpetual control in the provinces.
I know some of them and be as aposesionados so that their children inherit what was in others.
When peacetime came the Incas to visit his kingdom, he would have that great majesty, sitting on rich litter, mounted on sticks smooth, long, fine woods, engastonadas gold and Argentería, and the litter came forth two high arches, made of gold, engastonados precious stones, and fell somewhat long blankets for all the litter of Thus, that covered all, and if it was not wanting that was inside, could not be seen, or blankets, but was lifted when it came and went, such was his esteem.
And for air gets in and he could see the road, the blankets had made some holes.
For all parts of these litters had wealth, and some were carved in the sun and moon some snakes and other large OUNTY, and some as the crossed sticks, - this wore by insinia [63], for arms - and these litters were worn on the shoulders of the older gentlemen and more major of the kingdom, who walked over them, that it had more honest and most favored.
In meters around the litter and went spinning to the king's guard with archers and spearmen, and before were five thousand slingers, and came back as many spears, with their captains, and the sides of the road and on the same road, runners would discover what was true and announcing the departure of the Lord, and went so many people see that it seemed that all the hills and slopes were full della, and all gave their blessings raising great cries and screams his style, calling them "Wide hatun apu, intipchuri, canqui zapallaapu tucuy ccamp pacha uyay sullull [64], which in our language says: "Very large and powerful Lord, son of the sun, thou only art the Lord, everybody loves oya in truth. "And they said other things this will higher; So little was needed to worship him by God.
All the way Indians were cleaned, so that no stone or grass or parescia but everything clean and swept.
He walked four miles every day, or what he wanted, which was stopped served, to understand the state of his kingdom, happily heard the complaints that come to him, remedying and punishing those who were doing injustice.
Those who were with them, not lawless nothing to step off the road.
The natives provided as necessary, without which it had so honored for deposits, which had left, and nothing was missing.
Where was I, emerged Many both men and women and boys to serve them personally as it was commanded and carry loads, they carried a village to another, where one of taking, and the others left, and being a day, and at most two, not sorry, nor dello engaged or no offense.
For doing the Lord in this way, walking through his land as long as it pleased, seeing through their eyes what had happened, and providing what he understood was proper, that every was great and important things, which actually turned around to Cuzco, principal city throughout his empire.
So great was the kingdom of Peru, the Incas who ruled many times that from Chile to Quito, and even the Maule river to that of Angasmayo, and if still the king in a cape dest, hobiera to be informed of what was happening in the other with who went by the day, although they grew up, was something very long, because, after having gone to mill leagues serious and no time what had to provide, should it agree, or remedy other businesses governorship.
In order for this, and by hitting all the provinces to govern the Incas invented the posts, which was the best thing he could think or imagine, and this just Inca Yupanqui is the son the son of Viracocha Inca, Inca Tupac's father, according to the public the songs Indians, claiming the apricots.
Not only the coaching invented Inca Yupanqui other great things he did, as we shall telling.
And so, from the time of his reign, All highways were made half a league half a league, more or less, houses While small straw and wood decks, and among the mountain slopes were made by and boulders so that the roads were filled with these houses small step by step, as that of above.
And mandóse in every two Indians were a Dell with supplies, and that these Indians were made by the neighboring villages, which were not shelves, but, from time to time, which were few and they should come others, and such order therein hobo, not was necessary to send more than to never to leave while the Incas ruled.
For each province had care of populating the posts that fell on their terms, and so they made in the deserts and mountains of snow fields that were closer to the road.
And necessary to give notice in Cuzco or elsewhere to the kings of anything hobiese happened or that suit their service, came out of Quito or in Tomebanba, or of Chile or of Caranqui, or of any other part of the whole kingdom, and the plains and the mountains, and too trotted quickly walked the half mile without stopping, because there they placed the Indians and sent to be, to believe is that would be lighter and looser all.
