Assure girl, as long as you can, that these do not come every day.
But God made you so dull, let him escape ...
If it were mine that dam, I first flayed alive than release me from the claws.
But you, as though viewed 're so Pavot, so silfidona, that a word more or less what you leave off.
For what you give me ...».
Which continued talking parrot who has taken wine soup.
Amparo, disgustadísima, had to suggests that more easily dominate his basilisk for good than bad, and would not answer to such nonsense.
Acostáronse, and bed to bed, engaged in easy conversation, most found the smaller the true situation.
That man was not his lover, was her boyfriend and was going to marry her.
If shelter is amended, whether it was judicious, if not hindered their brilliance, As her sister would need ...
Yes, it was necessary to terminate the locurillas.
If not, would not recognize and sister.
Before the two opened a bright future.
It was fitting that both are worthy hiciesen of fortune that the Lord will bring.
These revelations had an effect on the minds of Refuge, who fell asleep and dreamed happy lived in a palace with a thousand other more nonsense.
The next day was very reasonable and submissive. "Honesty - Amparo thought innate philosophy - depends on the means of being able to keep.
I will come home every night, and give you what you need to break that promise me absolutely with those of Rufete, and not serve as a model for painters ...
That life is over, and also right out night, trips to the theater stage and coffee.
The he had to earn a dressmaker, why do not you have to win you?
Linen galore, some dressing gowns and under your clothes and mine.
It has a new one for you ...
Book, dependability, honesty, behavior is what I want. " - Yes, yes, - said the other with evident desire to obey then, for the account you had.
Amparo shelter came and went, as usual, the Costanilla.
The following days were devoted to shopping, Rosalie was charged with full powers of his cousin.
I declare useless As of Pipaón enjoyed these things and the importance placed in stores.
Amparo to be the party could not overcome her sadness, and consciousness is the ruffling whenever Rosalia, after haggling delicious fabrics, lace, fans, and jewelry, closed dealing with traders saying that bill Mr.
When it came choose a color or shape, the bride fell into the greatest perplexity, and spirit Look out for more serious efforts, not successful in the election.
La de Bringas always chose so security and assurance as if the objects were purchased for her. "You do not like - say -.
You seem to have come from a village.
Rosalia accept this gift with a satisfaction that bordered in joy, but the bride was very ill at ease in this exhibition through the streets.
Thought that all bystanders were fixed on her, making spicy comments.
While Rosalie was to be seen and is seeded to greet many well known people pasasen drive, Amparo craved that night shadows fall on Madrid, Paseo and the carriage.
When he retired to his home, the usual time, Knight accompanied to the door, speaking of the eternal theme of the unending series of home plans.
The bride, however, had to employ workers disguise to believe that the content; but inside it was the very dismal procession of his doubts and fears.
He lived in constant shock, was afraid of everything, even the most trivial accident were to her reason for distressing concern.
As someone entered the house Bringas, the unhappy suspected that person, whoever he was, came to tell you something.
If I felt it seemed whispering in the room dealing with it.
In either of Rosalia trivial sentence or thought she understood her husband suspected or sly allusion to things she could only think.
A Knight encontrábale sometimes a little sad would you have said something? ...
Until the arrival of the postman at the house gave him chills. "It would bring some anonymous?
This set of anonymous in your mind in such a way only to see a postman on the street shaking, and the view of any letter closed with envelope to D.
Francisco made her shudder.
There is never wearied of looking at the convicted man with mischievous smile, constantly rubbing his chin, and to these eyes, she felt immense dread, as if in a deserted a bull appeared to him with threatening jarameño horrible horns.
Was so extreme nervous susceptibility of the Empress, that even when he heard read It seemed a newspaper printed in those lines would be the name.
If Paquito came saying: "Do not know what happens?" this one sentence she gave him a violent blow to the heart.
The maid herself, the harmless looking at her smiling Prudence sometimes, as if he possessed a secret nefarious.
When Augustine and she cooed in honest discussions, rested from the torture.
But maybe Rosalie appeared unexpectedly, as a person born to be recognized disturb the happiness of others, and cast glances Inquisition, said: "And yet Augustine, your girlfriend is not happy ...
See what gets executed when face hear me say ...
Something's wrong, but when it is not honest with you, with whom it will be? ".
Such jokes that do not appear, torturing girlfriend but if put in a foal to disrupt.
At home I kept thinking about these things, repeating and commenting to discover the intention which could lead, and as nothing was happening to his side of that prove for new forms of martyrdom, see here an insignificant fact that increased its agonies: The simplest of mortals, D.
José Ido del Sagrario, visited her one night.
Although Amparo concept it was excellent, his presence always inspires disgust and fear.
Al him felt cold like that feel if wrapped in sheets of ice.
Man undoubtedly refreshed the memory of the unhappy young man scenes and passages that she did not want remember more.
The eminent novelist had quarreled with his editor, who did not want to take because their manuscripts although the bucket and gave the cash.
Finding himself on the verge of falling again into poverty, that man, possessed of so many talents, he reasoned sought a small square next to stable anyone fancy and roots.
By his friend Philip, he knew that Mr.
Augustine Knight planned to take a clerk to bring him books and correspondence ... "Nobody better than you - said the calligrapher with caramel face - can provide that square, if taken forward, if pity on this poor parent.
With you say just two words to Mr.
He could not view, recognizing that it was pure and innocent.
As proof of his fitness for the position he sought, Ido del Sagrario that night he carried a sheet of paper. "Can you show this sheet - for stretching said shyly -, and there you will see my letter that, though I be wrong to say it, is such that probably will not find better.
I wrote that Calamo appellant, and is part of the latest novel ...».
For out of sight, she offered to support his claim, and the poor fellow was so grateful to be and satisfied, threatening to return for the answer within a couple of days.
Amparo, left alone, passed quickly by the novel sight read sheet and sauteed words that appalled: Crime ...
deception, and other scary words hurt their eyes and with horrible repercussions are in your brain.
The horror that this man caused him increased with the memories he had of the few times see you in the past.
The Simple Cerato had been good once in the drugstore to take a little note ...
And such a man sought a place in the future home of it! ...
Also that day he saw from afar Doña Marcelina Polo, all black, the color of mahogany face, locked in bank if he were carved in it.
Penitent turned quieter home, but looking Inside there was a power that the priest had tried to instill. "If I dared - I thought then Bringas house -.
But no, I'm sure that no I dare.
Now I know what I should say, and when I see ahead, idea goodbye, goodbye purpose.
I'm so weak that God certainly made me something that was worthless. " And it was too late for the confession!
And with the deal reached Augustine to his girlfriend's idea to form so high that the confession would as a shotgun for the poor man.
How her face now say "no, not me, I have a horrible spot, I did this, this and this ...»?
Knight would die of grief when heard, because such an atrocious statement was to kill best of them, and despise, the yield from him with horror, with disgust ...
And she, foolish, without measuring his words, he answered: "nobody, nobody, nobody." It was certainly true in the sphere of feeling, because of gaps was pure hallucination delirium, some unconscious, irresponsible and stupid, as is done in state sleepwalking or under the influence of a narcotic ...
But such arguments, stacked to form as a tower, does not destroy the fact, and the brutal and terrible fact came to light light his clear logic at the top of this obelisk distinction ...
Forgetfulness, forgetting was what was needed, he fell land, lots of land on so that they stay buried forever and torn from human memory.
That evening, Knight found it very self-absorbed and asked several times why. "Dislikes has given me my sister" - he replied.
And the face that would represent Augustine if she began to tell ...
Only God as mystery deciphered large.
I thought keeping her purity and righteousness in his heart, but how do understand others and less of a jealous?
It was true that his sister gave him trouble.
Ido, who often turn up to find the of their claims to the Plaza as a bookkeeper, said that there were twice been a man who brought dishes and bottles Refuge at the inn, and had offended home.
At night the two sisters quarreled.
Refugio, pride, accused the other insolent words.
Amparo tried to submit it yet artfully offering money.
But Refugio had shot down the slope without brakes down, and it was not possible contain it. "I want nothing with you - he said -.
You in your house and I in mine.
Do not miss a man like me you.
But I do not deceive me offering me a wedding impossible.
Do not get white.
Left alone, he shared his weary spirit Amparito between two modes equally painful suffering.
It was a disgrace to his sister, other is considered tough, hot fixes as thorn in his brain, where there were already other: "Shelter knows!".
At dawn, sleep greatest disquietude, the bride confessed everything to his lover, who, listening, had pulled a knife and had cut off his head ...
As has been a nightmare, and wine Ido del Sagrario about nine. "Miss ...». - What, D.
Joseph? - Yesterday, seeing that you do not remember me, I decided to introduce myself to the Lord, which, as I told him that knew you, I got very good side.
Amparo wanted the earth to swallow to such a D.
Joseph. "What a house you are going to have, Miss!
It is a palace.
Then they brought some chairs that look like pure gold ...». 'D.
Joseph - she said humbly lowering his eyes to the eyes of this unhappy, which She looked like an inexorable judge.
Wants you to give the finishing of their new home. " - We'll see ... - And the older child ...
You know, Louie, the big boy ...
Well, if you'd like to take of lacayín ...
It is in handy for you to put your uniformità with many buttons on the overalls and cap to a gallon. - We will see, see ... - Do not know if you know that my wife is one of the best hairdressers is in Madrid.
Say the head of the Minister of Development of the biennium and other heads, miss, many others.
Met Nicanor home of His Excellency.
One of them has been as deputy.
The older girl, Rosa, sewn to wonder ... - Well, see, see ...-- repeated Amparo harassed.
Because they were soon laughing would not destroy their hopes of putting the whole family.
In these and other things that do not merit concern, spent a few days until end of the year 67.
I do not want to talk about the birth Bringas armed them small or of the noise that got Alfonsito to drum his uncle gave him.
There was dinner, which by force routine we call sumptuous phrase, and was attended by Knight and his girlfriend.
The wedding was set for the end of February or early March.
In preparation and other Event spent most of January 68.
When Rosalie and Amparo were alone, that spared no occasion to see what was its protected the attention they deserved the generous cousin. "Augustine has given me this fan - he said one day, showing one of the best buys they did -.
Daughter, not everything has to be for you.
The poor have to reach some little thing.
And the two shawls seems to be also for my humble person.
Yesterday he said: 'you stay with it if you like so much, 'and I said,' Oh, no, no way. " But perhaps take it.
There are things here, daughter, you will have to be very bad, because you have air, come on, you do not like more than the dress of merino.
What is the navy blue faille dress, believe, in good I would win with him, even giving my cousin has cost money.
I was to propose ...
You do not mind that color is fine, and you know you wear those things.
You look brought from a village and you have what you do not share.
The custom, daughter, custom is all in a matter of dress.
Put a skirt to a palette of satin, and will not know move foot in it ...
Then you get married, I have to change this glistening pin that I have with two corallites and eight pearls.
Is of less value than yours, but you will be better.
