Amparo came to open the door and saw him, my God!, Cowardice is most distressing possession of his mind.
In the eyes of those loyal eyes, the penitent was stiff, and confession was given as impossible as a stab ...
Olvidáronsele the words he had designed to begin.
Augustine spoke of ordinary things, she would answer turbadísima.
The symposium was discreet, perhaps too discreet and cold to be loving.
Knight was also embarrassed to find himself alone with his beloved.
There was dramatic passages of his life, made a witty and delicate criticism of the Bringas.
He wanted to quiet love, their eyes of the soul, more on the charms of living home, always busy and affectionate, that the unequal concern of passion.
Already had more forty autumns, and what man of great sense, his greatest desire was to have a family and live legal life around, surrounding himself with honesty, comfort, peace, enjoying the performance of duties in the company of people who loved and honored him.
God had in store the woman who suited him, and found it so perfect, that if he had instructed the Heaven does not come better ...
She, meanwhile, looked at him as Providence made man.
Without knowing why, since he saw a man considerole model, and if he had a thousand reasons to be loved, bastaríale for this generous kindness with which dropped to a poor orphan girl and humble ...
While such sosadas said, if not these, with equivalent words, Amparo, within yes, I reasoned otherwise: "My God, I do not know where to stop ...
I let go, let me go, and every time I'm more criminal silent as corn.
The later I will confess right under your forgiveness. " - Tell me about your childhood, your past life.
She then recalled some of the words he had thought, and spontaneity sum which if yielded to irresistible force, was left to say: "Before going further ...». - What? - I say ...
Is that I remembered when my poor father died ... - Is this your picture? - Knight asked getting up to watch him closely.
Meanwhile, Amparo said: "First I behead.
Augustine was there two hours and not allowed to leave over rape love to kiss the hand of his girlfriend.
He was a man whom the roughness of a rough fight large domain were critical about himself.
But even with the power he had, there were unnecessary occasionally some efforts to support the role of person impeccably austere legal, perfect wheel, clear running in the triple mechanism of the state, religion and Family.
One owner who was angry with Mompous because it wanted to put in sharing contributions, a little less than his due, the man who, by no religious blend in the concert of his time, had given some money to the Pope could not in any way going to hold good for her loving ways that were not right. "Everything in order, say, or not live or live with the principles." XXIV After three days of absence, excused under the guise of serious occupations at home, Amparo was the de Bringas.
Because the orphan did not love her sublime friend, and that respect he was better qualified if we give the name of fear.
The Mr D.
Francisco itself inspired him affection, and thinking about the two and what they say, came at home.
Without knowing why, he gave him ashamed to be there with her dress fixed recently, his new boots, her veil again as well.
I thought shame to miss their poverty.
Rosalie went to meet him in the hallway, laughing, and then hugged her fuss affected affection.
Such vehemence, as excessive should be something suspicious, but Amparo cut like a schoolgirl who surprised in the arms of a sergeant, admitted them as good.
A vehement followed ironies in very bad taste. "Go, woman, thank God you look around here.
No, do not deserve you, but I recognize that you good ...
For you see, I do not would trust a lot ...
Yes, you can be here all day, eat with us, what little there.
Bringas, who had just shaving in his room, left without wiping his glasses on the dining room rosy face and highly polished. "Amparo, how are you?
Good things I told you cousin ...
The truth, I have loved ...
This could be entitled The reward of virtue.
It has already commissioned Paris. " - Ah !...-- exclaimed the lady, spongy, and it seemed to be sprawling in the soft car of your friends. - We need to treat her well.
Will pass in all theaters. - Amparo - Pipaón said shortly after his protegee -; look, do not get tired at the sight point so often.
Augustine has instructed me to you make multiple purchases, and you see ...
should you give your mind and choose what you like, since everything is for you.
Also I have to procure some frippery, it is indispensable we go to the dance palace ...
Come to my room, you'll see the peach-colored dress that His Majesty has commanded me.
This indispensable assistance of the dance brought to Thiers thoughtfully, as though expenses were not many, its sales exceeded those of the whole chapter of the superfluous, for three months.
But with bold headings rigor Bringas overthrew allocated to the same requirement vital, and the family was ordered not to get their yantares for a month, rather than the precise not to starve.
And when he could no longer are decorated with the coat of six years, had to undertake one, using a tailor who owed him favors and that it made for the cost of cloth.
Orders were run for the kids throw up in February the shoes they had, and was abolished in light of the reception, the tip of the serene and other things.
Rosalia, always troubled by the growing shortage, the future looked black, darkened even further with the announcements of revolution were in every mouth.
His daughter had already piano teacher, and receive that part of education as necessary in a young man of good family.
And the girl was so applied that all the holy week and part of the night was easy fingering their studies; novelty found Amparo the house that day.
The annoying music and the mind-numbing conversation led Mr.
Knight was at nightfall, and after a while pleasant gathering took her to his house.
This time Rosalie him and no custom tubes, cotton balls, buttons or sticks or tape, and sent her away, like Bringas with honeyed palabrillas.
Taking in the solitude of his home, Amparo had that night a happy thought.
He did not know as it had happened right thing, and felt that the Holy Spirit had taken work to inspire.
The happy idea was to call for help from religion.
Confessing his sin before God, He would not give enough value to declare to a man?
She had never downloaded his consciousness of that weight as ordered by Jesus Christ.
Do not go to church but to hear Mass, and although more than one Once he came to be approaching the tribunal of penance, was very afraid to do so.
His sin was huge and would not fit through the agujerillos of a confessional grille, large for the human voice, guys, in their view, for the passage of certain crimes. "Nothing, nothing - a lot with this comforting thought, full of joy - and one day either, then I prepare well, I confess to God, and then ...
If it was strength of mind only with the intent, what when the attempt would continue achieving it?
The fear was always an act so grave, vanished as, and if the priest, seeing deeply repentant, he forgave, he had soul force enough to be presented to the man she loved and say, "I made a huge failure, but I'm sorry.
each at home. " All he saw, all supported its Christian idea, heaven and earth, and even objects more rebellious to the embodiment animated beings were exchanged for proud and happy.
The portrait of her father congratulated her with honest eyes, saying: "But, silly, if you I've been speaking so long, and you not wanting to understand ...!».
In diseases of consciousness the desire of medicine is half the cure.
He thought a lot during the night about what it would the cure, how would the face and voice.
However great was their shame before God, easier it would shed its sin in all confessionals in Christendom in the ears your trusted lover.
But I was sure that once taken that step, everything else is easier greatly.
Waited three days and the fourth, getting up early, went to the Good Bliss.
The pious knees waiting for a convenient distance, and were of those who go every day to see rogue and stun the confessors, were impatient the delay, denying the heaviness of that lady, she must be a well of guilt.
How they had slipped their faint words huequecillos by the fence, neither it knew.
It was enchantment, or speaking in Christian, was a miracle.
Asombrábase her that her lips had said what they said, and even after making the confession, it seemed that had been crossed in the grating expressions that were quite thin, very remorseful to enter.
It was like a suicide when the sinner was torn chest and taught his conscience order to see everything that was in it.
Displaying the corrupt, it also showed healthy.
The priest had promised to forgive, but delaying the time the penitent absolution had revealed his guilt to the man who wanted to take her to wife.
I thought it as reasonable under as if it were spoken by God himself, and promised with his whole soul obey blindly.
Before leaving the church an unpleasant vision disturbed the peace of mind.
Back in the end of the ship saw a woman dressed in black, sitting on a bench, which did not detract eyes.
Was Doña Marcelina Polo.
The penitent was covering her face with her mantilla veil wishing not to be known, but neither of those ...
The other would not let her rest even for a point martyrdom of their looks.
In short, Amparo, who expected to hear two masses, left after to hear one.
Upon returning home measured the forces that had been born and was amazed at how big they were. "Now I say it - I thought - and now another.
No Words fail me, as I do not lack courage.
So certain is that talk, as now is the day ...
Let's see, begins: "Today I confessed !...» From this to the rest is plain the road.
I'll say, 'I had a great sin. " 'What is it? "What I can I know? ". 'Not only can you but you should know, because before you know it, I do not think getting married. " Word after word, going out, going out the thing as it came in the confessional.
Had concluded that she did not come out on Tuesdays Caballero and Friday and the visit on these days to speak more freely than in the Bringas house.
Shelter that day was very cheerful. "I know - he said - that you visit.
No request was made for each other.
His painter expected to model the figure of a pestle callipygian helping to bury the victims of 2 May.
In the hands of one man received a letter Amparo, and watch and tremble from head to toe all was one.
Gazed without daring to open it.
He knew the superscription hated.
