Began a walk down the hall, seized with a restlessness so sweet that it hurt.
It seemed that transmigrate his being suddenly of an angel, that his spirit was served an ineffable mystery and August.
Pulses rushing him laugh and mourn at the same time.
He was in the situation of an outcast who suddenly restore the bosom of his country and his family.
Needed make efforts on himself for not jumping, not to scream and laugh as an oxygenate.
The night is beautiful.
Undoubtedly, this corridor is a big deal.
I suppose it's nothing between two dishes.
But as you know all these things justice take so formal ...
Then the audience do not let a rat, everything has to be to spearhead ...
In short, I feel the need to stop you ...
I suppose it's for a short time ...
not to scare you, because the thing is not worth it.
I come in person to reassure ...
Do not worry you then, that detention does not matter, and come with me.
If you allow me, kindle the lamp to take off my shoes and put my shoes ... - Anything you want, sir excuse - was quick to say .-- Can you take the time you like and send to jail those who has the appropriate effect.
The priest took out a match and began to light the lamp.
Instead of the pale and broken I thought finding, observed the physiognomy peaceful and happy than I had ever seen in your life.
In looking to the toilet at him, after firing, so pure joy shone as if it came to news had made a bishop.
The judge stepped back and stared him suspiciously.
Packed some clothes in a suitcase, put on his shoes, his cassock and hat and smiling, said: - I'm ready.
Josefa not tell nothing to prevent a sad scene, do not you think?
I write from prison, asking clothing.
Approved the judge what he said, and both took the stairs and out into the street as two friends.
During the journey, the young priest showed signs of a verbosity and joy that was time is not observed in him.
Went to prison, the judge chose the least bad room and, after leaving installed, fired with growing surprise that there remained so serene and smiling at home.
Came out strongly impressed by the prison.
While walking down the street from the top quadrant, his mind was spinning seeking to explain this extraordinary behavior.
Mr trial judge was far from suspecting that, upon entering prison, Peñascosa the toilets had just emerged from the dungeons of skepticism.
XIV Keep ceremony, gentlemen!
Huji voice, imperative, loud, could not quell the laughter and the murmur of concurrent
