Importing NATION .-- Buenos Aires CONTENTS I. - The curtain rises, this time without metaphor II .-- The safe arrival of the "Bella" Paula " III .-- In the couple begins to think love nest IV .-- How Sarrió individuals gathered in a room named the "Saloncillo" and what there was talking V. --¡¡¡ Thieves!
VI .-- Which treats Cecilia team VII .-- Which treats of two traitors VIII .-- From the Founding meeting held in the theater Sarrió assisted Fourth Estate IX .-- History of a tear X. - the glorious appearing of "The Lighthouse Sarrió" in the stadium press .-- First fires the battle of thought XI .-- .-- That Gonzalo Graves married riots between partners' Saloncillo " XII .-- How fun Pablito XIII .-- In some secrets are discovered in the life of Gonzalo XIV .-- Of the Gallicisms who committed "Sarrió Lighthouse" and other less interesting matters not .-- First casualties of the battle of thought XV .-- Of the famous entrance to the Duke did in Sarrió Tornos, Count of Buenavista XVI .-- Of the many and good that did the Duke of lathes in Sarrio XVII .-- That takes a serious Gonzalo Cecilia resolution and other XVIII .-- Where pulls the blanket Dona Brigida XIX .-- In which ends this story with some remarkable, the sad events CHAPTER ONE THE CURTAIN RISES BY THIS TIME WITHOUT METAPHOR In Sarrió famous village, bordering the Bay of Biscay, there was a few years ago a theater not clean, not clear, not comfortable, but dutifully served for solace during the long nights winter to their peaceful and industrious inhabitants.
Was built, like almost everyone, horseshoe shape.
It consisted of two floors over the bass.
In the first boxes, so-called God knows why, as there were but few banks stuffed ball and lining red flannel placed around the sill.
To sit in them was forced to push support, which was hinged at intervals, and at the same time raise the seat.
Once inside he dropped back seat, turned the back into place and settle the person in the worst way you can be human creature outside the rack.
In the second floor seethed, shouted, coceaba and snorted the whole mob of people without a difference class, the same height as the sailor who was fishing in the bay Murgas or pawn discharge, the reseller Amalia Sena well as those bringing in "fresh air" to the capital.
Behind of them had, in the old style, a patio for some artisans who, by age, category of teachers or any other circumstance, repugnant to the pan up and join to the raging mob.
From the ceiling hung a chandelier, curd-shaped glass pieces prismatic, with oil lamps.
Later it was replaced by oil, but I did not manage to see such a reform.
Under the stairs leading to the boxes was a closed niche blind they called "Don Mateo's box." This Don Mateo'll talk later.
Nothing more true.
Nothing: the more efforts made by turbulent blood away from the face, put the damn harder to hold that visible. - Mom, what color you are! - Venturita tells his youngest daughter, struggling not to laugh.
The mother looks at her expression of anxiety. - Hush, Ventura, silent .-- says Cecilia.
Dona Paula, encouraged by these words, whispers - This girl enjoys but in shame.
And he was about to relent and mourn.
Finally, the public got tired of tormenting her with his eyes, smiles and whispers, and set of new attention on the scene.
Dona Paula Grief was gradually ceasing, but were it remains overnight.
The cause of this incident was the velvet coat trimmed with fur that good lady had set.
Whenever premiered a piece of glossy appearance, was the same.
The population learned of the marriage until after any: that secrecy was kept to carry out.
Since then the life of the cigarette can be divided into several major periods.
On the streets, in church, on visits, asking the ladies greeted: - Have ?...-- you seen Yeah, yeah, I've seen .-- And I began skinning.
The village women crossed themselves as he passed and pronounced comments aloud to hear that the person concerned. - Women, look for your life to what Serena wears on the head lighter!
Because it should be noted that the mother of Dona Paula called it the Serena, and Grandma and a great-grandmother as well.
Needless to add that since the cigarette rose to the rank of lady, even by accident and gave it its proper name.
The next day, the ladies stumble Sarrió on the street, finding no words with which to express their horror, were given for content with raising his eyes to heaven, waving arms convulsively, and pass by muttering: "Hat!" Before that bold stroke that has no partner, but with some heroes of old, Hannibal, Caesar, Genghis Khan, the town was silent and depressed a few months.
However, each Once the good of Dona Paula appeared in public with the abominable hat on or any other article of his own high rank, was always greeted with a murmur reproach.
