Valera's novels are full of details, no doubt observed in reality, not just details of objects and places, but of people and even real people.
However, Valera, to dwell on the theoretical level, used to insist on unlimited privileges of fantasy and the position of art for art.
Zolesco to naturalism and against other most traditional realism, he believed that the novel is not to retreat into the probable or contain a moralizing intention.
Covered by these statements, in addition to their own novels, which boasted free free invention thesis.
But, referring in particular Juanita la Larga, wrote: "I do not know if this book is novel or not.
I wrote it with very little art, combining memories of my early youth, and even from my childhood, spent in this or that place the province of Cordoba.
To take Udder field faking an action, not determined the place where the action happens and invented one, giving a false name, but I think that and customs, characters, passions and even the sets of my story have been happen naturally, and perhaps have happened, when I was in some way, rather historian faithful and truthful novelist rich imagination and inventiveness.
If it were not for now very popular genre of novels, an exact copy of reality and not creation of the mind poetic, I would give very little value to my work.
Either because you do not have try to prove a metaphysical thesis, psychological, social, political or religious.
Juanita does not incline to prove or show anything.
Its merit, if it had, it must be fun. " And yet he adds: "My book can be regarded as a mirror or photographic reproduction names and things of the province where I was born. "This means that, after all, in this work full maturity, acknowledges the dominance of the realist style, but maintains that it does intended to prove anything hidden or secretive.
Yet, repeatedly adventure embodied in that particular type of woman who Valera is pleased to describe and animate is, in my opinion, a thesis and its living proof.
Against the pessimism and determinism of naturalism own, show us a world Valera in which self-determination and optimism of triumph.
All her heroines have something grave - in the eyes of the society of his time - to be forgiven.
And what shows Valera is, so to speak, what can a woman if you have resolution and good workmanship.
Poverty extreme baseness of birth close the horizon Juanita, daughter of Juana la Larga, and we prohibit, for example, silk dress, but it is an untamed creature y. ..
But James certainly professed religion of art, and this and other conduct become almost invisible behind the adventures of the characters and the prose is admirable its sobrehaz and attractiveness.
Is a common opinion - to which, on this occasion, I agree - that Juanita is the best between the novels he wrote Valera.
The multiplicity of characters embossed on the plot, without diminishing the role of the heroine; the successive transformations of the situation, without interruption restart and expand the story, the reasonable proportion of good and evil between those who make paper - inevitable - good and bad, the perfection reached by some of the plates, and tested by the author in previous productions, are some among the what reasons, and I refer it in the few lines of this preface.
