I could not remedy: the commitment to him for the next day, I worried much, and me alone in my room after his leave my uncle, whose condescension declared my purposes I'd like something as a signature of a judge at the foot of a sentence death, much troubled me, and when stuck in bed, after preparing the arsenal Chisco recommended me for battle, I was in darkness, the concern went streaking with fever.
And I think the case was not for nothing.
Tell a man of the cities, made all the softness of a spoiled life, "Vertel'll hand in hand with a beast of the most fierce and frightening at the bottom of a cave of the mountain, exposed to the fierce not alone and need to defend against another or others of the same lineage ', and see what meat you get to that subject, it is tempered.
True Chisco and his comrade had to carry most brutal in the effort, and they were no longer new to them those sets terrible but after they were two tough mountain with more heart than intellect, especially Salces Pito, had no common sense, and view things from this side, there was too much too serious to fear, rational thinking.
Herds of bears everywhere, and bear all sizes and colors, and auction of these visions, a dreadful cavern full of them: three of the most woolly and serious, sitting on a rock background, and the other, in a tight mass, occupying the whole area to the inlet, minus a small space between the first row mass and the three big animal in the rock.
In this space I was, it was the defendant in that sort of trial, and it remained near the rock and almost in front of me the hole enough for another huge bear that was amusing himself by sharpening the nails in a big edge ground while licked by their noses and bloodshot eyes looked at me swinging head.
That bear was the executioner there, waiting to give judges the bellowing sentencing me to death, to put away a good portion of my pieces and throw the remaining the crowd that had already been eaten and Pito Chisco Salces, with guns and everything.
Well I was employed, to wander in reckless guapeza those animals that were not messed with us.
Trying was the last superhuman effort to make myself understood in this fierce court when I plucked from the clutches of sleep a few shakes Chisco had just enter my room.
Well, with me as well as distressing nightmare-free, yet I found some similarity between my waking and the inmate on death row for the arrival of the executioner to dress the hopa.
And dawn, and, traces one day in the most splendid and warm they could ever conceive at this season and in that town.
Through this door there was no escape, and dressed with resolution a hero, but I turned up the weapons without knowing how he had spent the night my uncle, who was already awake insurance, if not lifted, as was his custom to rise early the sun as much as he had strength enough to throw the bones out of bed.
I went at once to his room through the cracks of the door of which saw light.
So richly had spent the night and found him running as lively to say his prayers usual, I had a hard time not reduce him to accompany me to the portal.
In view of this, despedíme until noon, and went back to my room where I waited Chisco ...
and hot coffee, toast, commissioned by the monsoon that had prepared me Tona ...
Finally, half an hour later we were Chisco and I, armed to the teeth, on the porch, where Pito Salces with his shotgun to his shoulder and a lap Perruca next, entertained his impatience Tona sniffed at their chores from above.
Chisco released the Canelo and beat in his kennel, smelling what was brewing between us, and showed me his joy at being free, putting his hands on his chest ...
and at risk of losing balance with the force of his affectionate demonstrations.
Walking up the hill and I said Chisco, in response to a suggestion of mine, who had not wanted, he and Chorcos, anyone found out more than me of finding the bear, because as presented the set, was "something curriente 'and' cannon posau ..." and the fewer packages, more clarity.
I was not in his opinion, and believed that, at least, the company, for example, Don Sabas, we would have been Pearl.
No and no, and they knew very well what thought.
I did not say a word about the case.
Nor for my companions had no doubt that the big animal that should have been given for the storm, the high life in the shelter, because it parlan fed fresh skeleton almost mondo a mare pepazo seen in a "Rejoya" in the vicinity of the cave and becerruca missing from the cabin, going to the trough from Escajales winter, which he had not to appear.
It was more by token, the sweatshop, a neighbor of TARUMBA.
Naturally linked to this conversation came the plan to attack the beast in his own den after we ascertained that he was in it.
Also is he talked about the possibility that the market had gone for a stroll or for supplies to get us home, which would infallible signs of their way of life and the more or less often the left.
I looked very well, only they all were based on the same basis: the serenity and steady hand.
Acordábame me then, something like that had seen in a small room very funny French.
A merchant of skin is presented in a hamlet in the Pyrenees with a good collection of them, bought in Algiers: by this, and Packages take certain initial and luggage, and anything he says about the climate African and hunting in those forests, tómanle the simple villagers, who were fond hunting, by a famous matador of lions.
and no more. "" Yes - replicates the least optimistic of the questioners, scratching their heads - and only that it seems a bit difficult to make those assumptions before lion. " The mountain, since I did not walk by it, had changed much in appearance: the oak I left still fairly well dressed, but with the withered and yellow robes, were naked, and the same happened to the beech and the bushes' road changeable. " The ground was 'washed', the grass of the brañas, stretched and stroked her hair as a fresh from the water head and every hollow was a torrent.
As we gain altitude, we found most often large plates or "tresechones" frozen hail on the slopes bleak, and from the peaks of Europe to those of Sejos, all peaks that were reached to see was snow, which glittered in the sun to hurt her head with its rays.
This was the ambient air, cold and sharp as a razor.
So with all this and with how painful it was to walk the path that we had, for the slippery floor and multitude of obstacles that opposed the overflowing streams, I was looking long.
This may consist in the little desire I had of reaching the end of our journey; because after the fun was not my conversation with the two monsoon or end of joy to be delivered Chorcos every moment, as if to their own weddings.
Trying to stop him a bit, but most notably launch the conversation to another site more enjoyable, I dropped from both the subject of his love affairs with the respective monsoon.
Pete came to my call as a mastiff to the hand that gives half leg.
Chisco, who walked beside me without missing a beat of its Upright movements left only to discover at a glance soson and faded, that he had learned of the reference.
Chorcos told me bluntly that he was "too amerluzaón of" the servant of my uncle, the was in "telucas Eye" and "got the legs to the heart.
nor that yes, indeed he, meanwhile, was not as clear he must be ... "" Geez, what respect shrank as it looked on the verge of it!
De toas lots, porridge!, Tona Tona was, and he would eventually get out with it, or ajuegarse of hipu amorosu, but not with PASAP knot ... " It was the same, plus Handicapped, which had told me two other times walking me through the mountains.
So at that time had no advance your business one step.
Nor that of Chisco, as he told me very quietly, and that he had something more advanced Pito Salces to yours.
Tanasi had come to say clearly that "For its part, yes, and we will not pass on Robacio tried because I knew that rejected him for not Toper Tablanca be, and poor, two things he could not remedy.
Then I remembered I the second was hopeless in the will of my uncle, and said: - It is true that the former is inevitable, but why the second has to be, Chisco?
A best at dawn darker ...
or do not go up garbage dumps, Bajans the battlements, and out there with each other in height. - Psh - I replied with a shrug - and, finally, that things stay as they are.
I do not like Pitu Tantu ajondan esus Malis in the core.
Not unless Tona Tanasi val; but as Roga, as Roga, will POCU removing the desire to POCU eya ...
and Tami, that esu unu put him in a bid and a jastial remati as Pepazus ...
vamus that bad estómagu jaz ...
And in finiquitu, the dude is lambe sueltu well, and can it be permitted by God, those trompiezus, pa rid in tomorrow's Otrus busts I pa toos the days of my life ...
Dende that Tuvia dientis royeli pa, I'm ganandu the bread in a strange house, and I was not so bad idu.
With these philosophies and intemperance Chisco Salces Pito, just up a slope slippery floor, and we were at the beginning of a large mountain range that fell in gentle waves to our left.
There Atajábala the frontispiece of a high rocky hill that dominated it throughout its length, and was separated from it by a ravine.
On it stood, and through him and the profile of the mountain, a white rock that looked like the hood, view from behind a cloak of titans, dark brown, spread there to dry to sun's rays illuminated the whole vast area.
To the right of the rock began a dark green stain, such as coppice, which disappeared early in the shadows of the ravine to the left, a little relief woven scree weed.
Pointing to the rock Salces Pete told me as soon as we saw in the mountains, because Chisco already serving him knew well known scenario: - Ayi Aonda vamus the cave.
And then added, pointing to the higher profile of the mountains, to our right and referring to the bear - Bajandu Ayi as the target dende onde caminu until we jayamus nusotrus, lu saw yesterday.
Carrascalis aqueyus left and Thurs for the peñascu delanti onde is the mouth of the cave; and it was not to lau from here, or by the otru golvió, because I moved away while the Ayi oju Guen walked to the caminu pasu, or the half hour here mesmu estuvi Parau.
Chisco, without saying a word, the Canelo tied with a string that had tied at the waist, Chorcos and sent to do the same with the Perruca, antojándoseme to me that he had read shocked at the attitude of those noble animals, confirming the assumptions Pito, which warned, threatening to tie him too if he did not take the warning seriously, not to do anything without being commanded.
I told Chisco and she responded very flatly, no, adding that what mattered was that anyone would not run Serenity: in having it, everything else flowed from his account.
The reference could not be more straightforward to me, for Pete, of so gross as it was, just sinned on the other end.
Entendíla, dolióme, I plucked up heart, and said that of Robacio: - Where to go another man, I will go, so keep this light. - Post to EYU enough - Replicom - and anti Pechuan cuantu water.
A brief inspection of weapons and ammunition.
In the first two mountaineers had not more than escopetonas and huge knives whose handles, antler, appeared sashes above their waists.
The bullet cartridges, coarsely prepared the night before by them, brought them loose in the pockets of lastic, and pistons bulk in his pockets of his pants, all safe and handy, as they said.
I would advantage drew his revolver and a shotgun barrel. - Not disparity of two to one tiempu - Chisco recommended me - and guard the pa if convio segundu Best sitiu repeat, without removing the gun from his face.
Thrown out for having lost track of, or because there really rational cause Therefore, it is true that I have great confidence in the unruffled serenity of Chisco, and that was the last to break to walk to the rock when he gave the order in these words solemn, after crossing himself: - A hand of God!
We went down the wing and three in good walking with the dogs tied very short, because as we approached the rock, was very hard to contain them, and much more silence their beats.
It was already agreed plan to attack the beast in its den, entering the left side mouth, and not fitting that the dogs we anticipated, for reasons that were discussed too.
Close, very close and the cliff, dragging the Canelo materially Chisco, pulling him with all his strength in the opposite direction, and gagged with one hand and could make silence.
The lap Perruca also beat and shouted in their own way, and shook the cord that was holding the paw of Pete, but shaking a lot ...
To me this question mentally I was when Chisco was ahead of Pete and me, and Custom I placed the last of the three, began to move very cautiously and very leaning the crag, the little that we needed to walk to the edge of the ravine.
Canelo went before it, beside himself with anxiety, sniffing the ground and in the air, fighting the flanks with half inch tail and tongue outside the mouth when not beating.
Chorcos was no less overdrive the hound, and followed hot on almost Chisco rear anchors its sandals.
Canelo quickly disappeared across the rock, and Chisco, after stopping to observe a moment from the corner, Hizon signs that could follow, and disappeared too.
For the mouth was in a pit the rock, almost to peak over the ravine.
So it came to be the cave as the attic of a house very high, very high!, which loft had to go out the window, walk the cornice of the facade in question.
Unless the ledge of the rock would five feet wide and jaramagos festoon the outside who watched a little frightening vision the abyss, the comparison is exactísima.
On this ledge, which ran until lost in the scrubland on the other side of the cave, I saw Chisco pass and his dog, Pito Perruca Salces behind his lap, and how they disappear, one by one, in the dark cave men and animals, after very slight precautions the monsoon of Robacio.
It offered no great difficulty as I pass that road whose length does not exceed fifteen or twenty yards, but racionalísima consideration of what we would do after traveling, no other withdrawal that the gap in the case likely escaped out of the cave, if not jigote facts stayed in there, stuck my feet on the ground to the first steps I took about it.
I saw everything that was brutally reckless blundering in our company, and formed seriously intended to go back.
But Salces Chisco and Pete had already plunged into the cavern; and though very gross recklessness and two, it was not honest or decent to leave without their help a man who had to promise to go so far beyond and outside another.
Lasted a few moments these hesitations mine, and shut the eyes of the intelligence all common sense reasoning, ie, getting off at the level of these two barbarians avancé resolved by the ledge and came to the mouth of the cave, inside which desperately pounded the two dogs, and I found myself having Chisco and his comrade's plan of attack.
The cave I knew as referrals from the two men who knew her well, had two breasts: the first entry, was large and not very high on vault, the floor much more below the threshold of the door, very rugged and very steep slope toward the wall of fund, which saw the mouth of the other breast or cabinet that room to receive.
I had no doubt as to Chisco that it was "Mrs.", ie, the bear, which grumbled at the bottom of the antrum invisible, responding desperate to beat the dogs and the lady with her offspring, because without such loving care, had already left the stage to do the honors of the house.
As all the wisdom and reflection that could be expected from those two tough mountain Chisco had to look at, I did not take my eyes off him, and he could not but admire to note that neither in that trance of perfect test altered the regularity of the continent: his gaze was steady, calm and cold, as usual, its color the same as ever, and there was no a muscle or a sign around his body betray a beat in his heart more than normal; Salces unlike Pete, who did not fit into their clothes, certainly not out of fear, but by the delight brutal that he had those sets.
Taking me to guide my eager curiosity Chisco eyes and hear while Canelo barking just put it in the den, I saw him back soon, but giving face the enemy with all four legs wide apart, head up and almost touching the ground belly.
Which forced him to walk and it was not hard to guess: after him came the beast growling and grumbling, and to poke the anchovy, the cold did not stop me nervous that ran my whole body, to estimate the accuracy with which Pete had described the look of the eyes animalazo that: really sparkled between woolly tufts of their sockets, as coals in the dark.
Our presence checked him for a moment on the threshold of the cave; but then remaking, took two steps, disregarding the protests of Canelo, and sat on his hind legs, giving both a wail and raising his hands up near the muzzle, as if to exclaim: - But these men who dare to much, much more gross than me!
When he saw that incorporated the beast, said Pete Salces Chisco: - You to oju, I heart ...
