And just forgot to Seville on the evening of rest, when there were no bulls the next day the whole band, surrounded by fans eager to get a good memory of city, got into a cafe in singing "Flamenco", where everything was women and song for teacher.
Returning to his home to rest for the remainder of the year, Gallardo was satisfaction the powerful who, forgetting honors, is given to ordinary life.
All his travels come to the street Sierpes or the Plaza de San Fernando.
The family looked like another, more cheerful and better health insurance to have him home for a few months.
Thrown out with felt back waving his gold-headed cane and looking bright thick fingers.
In the lobby, several men were waiting, standing by the gate through which the Irons could see the bright white patio, with fresh cleaning.
People were scorched with Sun, sour smell sweaty, dirty blouse and slouch hat with frayed edges.
Some were farm workers who were on their way, and going through natural thought Sevilla implore the aid of the famous matador, who was called Juan.
Others lived in the city and tuteaban the bullfighter, calling Juaniyo.
Gallardo, with memories physiognomy of a man of crowds, he recognized their faces and admitted the familiarity.
They were comrades in school or vagrant children. - Do not leave the business, eh? ...
Times are bad pa toos.
And before this familiarity encourages them to greater intimacy, again Doodle, which the gate remained in his hand. - Tell the lady to give you a couple of pesetas pa a ca.
And she went out whistling, happy with their generosity and beauty of life.
In the tavern next to the doors asomábanse Mountaineer boys and parishioners, as if she had ever seen, with smiling mouth and eyes devouring curiosity. - Salu, cabayeros! ...
It agradese the orsequio, but do not drink.
And getting rid of the fan who marched against him with a cane in hand, went ahead, being arrested in another street for a couple of old friends of his mother.
Asked him to be sponsor of the grandson of one of them.
I have more ahijaos there in Hospisio.
And kept going, not stopping until the Sierpes street, waving to some and leaving others who might enjoy the honor of marching at his side, in glorious privacy, in the eyes of passersby.
Asomábase club Forty-five to see if he was in his possession: a society aristocratic fixed number, as indicated by its title, which only spoke of bulls and horses.
It was composed of rich enthusiasts and ranchers, figuring prominently, as an oracle, the Marquis de Moraima.
In one of these outputs, a Friday afternoon, Gallardo, on his way to the streets of Snakes, he felt the desire to enter the parish of San Lorenzo.
In the square alineábanse luxurious carriages.
The best of the city was on this day to pray the miraculous image of Our Lord Jesus del Gran Poder.
Ladies down their cars, dressed in black, with rich shawls, and men went into the church, drawn by female competition.
Gallardo went well.
National tolerate the views on "God or Nature "no big deal, because the divinity was for him something vague and indecisive, like the existence of a gentleman of that can be heard calmly all kinds of gossip, through what is known only by hearsay.
But the Virgen de la Esperanza and Jesus del Gran Power was seeing them from their earliest years, and they that they are not touched.
Its sensitivity of rough strapping youth theater moved by the pain of Christ with the Cross, his face sweaty, anxious and pale, like that of some comrades who had seen lying in the infirmary of the arenas.
Had to be right with the mighty lord, Fathers and prayed fervently several standing before the image, reflecting the candles as red stars in the corneas of his eyes in Africa.
A movement of women kneeling before him distracted his attention, eager to interventions supernatural life-threatening.
A lady passing between the devout, attracting attention from them: a tall, slender, Beauty noisy, light-colored dress with a big hat with feathers, under which outbreak of scandal shone bright gold of her hair.
Gallardo met her.
Dona Sol was the niece of the Marquis de Moraima, "Ambassador", as was called in Seville.
Happened among women regardless of their movements curiosity satisfied with the glances and whisper their words, as if that were a tribute natural that should accompany his presentation everywhere.
The costume of an exotic elegance and enormous hat stood out with bright enhancement on dark mass of feminine headgear.
He knelt, bowed his head as if he prayed about moments, and then her eyes clear, greenish-blue with hints of gold, paseáronse by the church quietly, as if in a theater and to examine the competition looking familiar faces.
These eyes seemed to smile when they found the face of a friend, and persisting on walks, eventually tripping over Gallardo fixed on her.
The sword was not modest.
Used to be the subject of the contemplation of thousands People in the afternoon of racing, he believed heartily that where was he all eyes were being forced to him.
Many women, in times of confidence, had revealed the excitement, curiosity and the desire they felt to see him first in the ring.
Dona Sol's gaze did not get off to meet with the bullfighter, but rather, remained fixed, with a chill of a great lady, forcing the matador, respectful of rich, to divert him. "What a woman! - Thought Gallardo, his petulance popular idol -.
He warned the heart something extraordinary, as in the evenings of good fortune.
It was a hunch that the mysterious circle made him ignore the protests of public, and launched the biggest ever daring excellent results.
When she left the temple, looked back at him without surprise, as if he guessed would wait at the door.
Rose by open carriage, accompanied by two friends, and driver to herd the horses, yet he turned his head to see the sword, marking in your mouth a slight smile.
Gallardo walked distracted all afternoon.
He thought of his previous affairs, in the triumphs of wonder and curiosity made by his arrogance bullfighter; conquests they filled of pride, making believe irresistible, and now inspired him some embarrassment.
In his admiration for the beauty reverently uníase of old urchin full of respect for the rich, in a country where the birth and fortune are very important.
His attorney, a great friend of the Marquis de Moraima and related to the best of Sevilla, had sometimes spoken of Dona Sol After an absence of years, had returned to Seville a few months earlier, causing excitement young people.
Strong female, accustomed to sports and a great horseman, people saw galloping on the outskirts of Seville, carrying the black skirt Amazon a man's jacket, red tie and white beaver on golden helmet of her hair.
Sometimes he held the pole crossed the pommel of the saddle, and a platoon boobies friends was turned into the pastures to harass and bulls down, enjoying much in the fiesta brava, abundant in danger.
There was a girl.
Gallardo vaguely remembered having seen in his childhood in the ride Delights sitting next to her mother and covered with curly whiteness, like dolls luxurious shop windows, while he, wretched urchin, jumped from the carriage wheels looking for cigarette butts.
Were undoubtedly of the same age should be at the end of the score, but so magnificent, so different from other women! ...
It seemed an exotic bird, a bird of paradise down in a pen, between glossy and well-fattened chickens.
Your name romantic drama fits well with its original character and independence of their customs.
His mother dead and possessed of a good fortune, had married in Madrid with a character years her senior, but offered to a woman anxious to shine and the new incentive to travel the world as an ambassador, representing Spain in the main courts. - What fun is that girl, John! - Said the manager -.
Think of it as a book of geography secret notes at the bottom of each page.
Died, no doubt, boring, because he had no where to go.
He was the good lord intended to represent us in court, and before the year was already queen or empress of that earth writing to Spain to relieve the ambassador with his formidable spouse, which newspapers called "the Spanish irresistible." The crowned heads that has disrupted that cunt! ...
The queen trembled to see her come, as if it was cholera.
Finally, the poor ambassador was no more room available for their talents that the republics of America but being a man of good principles, friend of kings, preferred to die ...
That girl is the most extreme: all or nothing, as soon is fixed at the top, and looking below ground scratching.
I have said that back in Russia went after one of those hairy to throw bombs: a young boy with a woman's face, which was not the case because it interfered in their business.
And the girl, therefore, erre que erre behind him, until finally he was hanged.
They also say he had his things with a painter in Paris, and to ensure that portrayed light clothes, with one arm in the face for no be known, and thus walk in the phototype of matchboxes.
And do not think sung in Italian only, she Camela all: French, German, English.
The manager spoke with admiration of Dona Sol, considering extraordinary and original all events of his life as well as the undoubted uncertain.
His birth and fortune inspired him with respect and kindness, as well as to Gallardo.
Ocupábanse it with smiles admiration.
The same facts in another woman would have given vent to a flood of comments irreverent, comparing it to the beast of prey in thick tail that is the protagonist of many fables. - In Seville - still the manager - leading an exemplary life.
And laughing at the arrest of this woman, who at times was as brave and assailants a man, repeated the rumors that had circulated in certain clubs in the streets of Suckers.
When "Ambassador" came to live in Sevilla, all the youths had formed a cut around it. - Imagine, Juanillo.
An elegant woman, of which here are not used, carrying their clothes and hats from Paris, her perfume in London, and also a friend of kings ...
As it were marked with the brand of the first herds in Europe ...
They went like crazy after their steps, and she allowed some liberties, wanting to live among them as a man.
But some went on the rampage, mistaking the familiarity with something else, and lacking words, hands were long ...
There were slaps, Juanillo, and worse.
It seems that shoots the weapons, who knows how to punch as an English sailor, and also knows the way to fight the Japanese who call jitsu.
Total, who dares a Christian to give her a pinch, and she, with golden hands, not just angry, he pulls and leaves you a heap.
Now the plague less, but have enemies out there talking ill of her: some praising what is a lie, others denying even that is pretty.
Doña Sol, according to the agent, showed himself enthusiastic of his life in Seville.
Dice will spend the summer abroad and the winters here.
It is tired of life of palaces and cuts, and if you saw how people treat! ...
Has made the sister received as a Brotherhood, the most popular, the Christ of Triana, the Holiest Puppy, and spent a Chamomile batons money for brothers.
Some nights are full house guitarist and dancers: Sevilla few girls learn the singing and dancing.
With them are their teachers and their families and to the more remote relatives, all swell with olives, salami and wine, and Dona Sol, sitting in a chair like a queen, spend hours dancing after asking dance, all land.
He says this is a taste that was equal to not know what king that opera singers made for himself.
Now Dona Sol receives for Owl morning when an old gypsy, giving guitar lessons, teacher of the most traditional, and when they do not find their visits with the instrument in the knees, is with an orange in hand.
So Jose was explaining to his killer the original features of Dona Sol Four days after seeing Gallardo in the parish of San Lorenzo, the manager went to the sword with some mystery in a street cafe Sierpes. - Gacha, are the child of the lot smoother.
Going to be brother or something like that of all the kings of the European deck.
Gallardo smiled modestly, with downcast eyes, but also strutted her slender person, as if not considered difficult or extraordinary assumptions of his attorney. - But there should be no illusions, Juanillo - he continued -.
Doña Sol wants to see up close a bullfighter, with the same interest as the teacher takes lessons Luchuzo.
You know what that means: a throw of cattle ranching Moraima, a party that has organized the Marquis you enjoy your niece.
We will go I too have been invited.
And after two days the teacher and his attorney came on the afternoon of the fair district, as handsome vaulter, including the expectation of the people who looked out the doors and were grouped on sidewalks. - Van to Tablada - say -.
There demolition of cattle.
The agent, rider on a white mare and bony, was dressed as a field: sturdy jacket, cloth pants with yellow leggings, and those calls the leather leggings zajones.
The sword had appealed to the party as usual and bizarre outfit of former bullfighters before the modern customs matched their clothing with that of other mortals.
A hat covered his head calanes velvet, with curly mote, subject to the jaw by a chin strap.
The collar, clean tie, was tied with a pair of bright, and two thicker flashed on the rolling front.
The jacket and vest were wine-colored velvet, with black braid and arambeles, the strip of red silk, the tight trousers of dark point, modeling the muscular and slender legs of the bullfighter, together the knees with black cockade leagues.
The leggings were of amber color, with stripes leather along the openings, and the boots of the same color, half-hidden in temper the broad Arab bared large silver spurs.
In the saddle of chair on the colorful blanket Jerez, whose borlaje hung on both sides of the horse, resting a gray jacket with black patches and red lining.
The two horsemen galloped, carrying over his shoulder like a lance fine and sturdy pole wood, with a ball on his shot guarding the iron.
His time at the popular neighborhood aroused a standing ovation.
Stung the horses to move beyond the urchins running after them, and alleys blue and white walls estremeciéronse paved the rhythmic jingle of horseshoes.
In the quiet street of stately homes with bars and big bellied viewpoints, where he lived Dona Sol vaulter found others waiting at the door, motionless on their horses and supported by the spears.
They were gentlemen, relatives or friends of the lady, who greeted the bullfighter with friendly frankness, that it was pleased the game.
He left the house the Marquis de Moraima, immediately mounted his horse. - Right now the girl down.
Women you know ...
He said this with sententious gravity that gave all his words, as if they were oracles.
He was a tall old man, bony, with big white whiskers, including the mouth and eyes retained a naive child.
Polite and measured in his words, gallant in his bearing, sparing of the smile, the Marquis de Moraima was a great lord of the past, dressed almost Suit rider always the enemy of urban life, disturbed by the social demands family when they held him in Seville, and anxious to run the country between herdsmen and jeans, who was with a simplicity of comrades.
He had almost forgotten to write, for lack of use, but so he spoke of fighting bulls, breeding bulls and horses or agricultural work, animábanse his eyes, speaking with the aplomb of a connoisseur.
Gold paled the sheet lying on the white one sides of the street.
For the blue belt that limited the two rows Eaves spent a dark cloud. - No cuidao - said the Marquis seriously -.
On leaving home I saw a papeliyo it er yevaba wind in a direcsión that I know.
And all agreed, convinced.
I could not raining, as it assured the Marquis de Moraima.
Same time knew that a pastor old, and had no fear of being wrong.
See if you give them death Christian Bueno.
You know that this year I have not quedao der happy too.
The probesitos meresían more.
Dona Sol appeared, holding in one hand and the black rider showing below it rods of high leather boots gray.
Man wearing a shirt with red tie, jacket and purple velvet jacket, and graciously tipped his hat velvet calanes on the loops of her hair.
Rode smoothly, despite the abundance of tasty visual beauty and took the pole at the hands of a servant.
He saw that she held out her hand, a fine hand that smelled like heaven, and precipitation Stunning, just squeeze its paw knew that overthrew beasts.
But the white zarpita and pink, rather than shrink under pressure and brutal involuntary, which would have cast another cry of pain, convulsed with vigorous effort, easily getting rid of this closure: - I really appreciate you coming.
Nice to meet you.
And Gallardo, feeling in his dazzling the need to answer something, he stuttered, as if you greet a fan: - Grasias.
The lady put his horse into a trot, and the whole squad of horsemen followed, forming around her escort.
Gallardo walked embarrassed the tail, without leaving their amazement, realizing he had said vaguely silly.
Galloped on the outskirts of Seville, along the river left behind the Torre del Oro, followed avenues of shady gardens with yellow sand, and then a road beside which alzábanse inns and picnic areas.
Upon reaching Tablada on the verdant plains saw a black mass of crowds and carriages next to the fence that separated the pastures of the closed, inside which were the cattle.
The Guadalquivir extended his current along the meadow.
On the opposite bank stood in San Juan de Aznalfarache costs, crowned by a ruined castle.
The cottages showed their whiteness among the masses of silver-gray olive trees
