If the flow and ebb of the sea had been observed that one that coincided again with a certain position of the moon, could not be inferred that there was a relationship between two phenomena, but remain constant expressed coincidence, physicists must infer that if one does not cause the other, at least they both have a common cause, and thus are related in origin.
Despite what I just said, have many reasons when branded a sophistic dialectic following reasoning: post hoc, ergo propter hoc, after this, then why. 1 º.
Because they do not speak of a constant succession, 2 º.
because even when you speak, this succession can dependence indicate a common cause, not that one is because of that.
While it is noted, the same rule to attend to ordinary business, it is more general of what might appear at first sight: we use it in the ordinary course of things, one's fate with regard to nature.
According to the object in question amending the application of the rule: in some cases just an experience of rare, in others it requires more repeated, but basically we are always guided by the same principle: two things that always happen, a dependency has to others, the existence of a indicated as the other. § V.
It's night and I see that on top of a mountain is lit a fire, to little time to burn, I notice that on the opposite mountain overlooking a light shines briefly and disappears.
This has left after the fire on the opposite side, but here I can not infer that between the two events have some relationship.
The next day, I see again that goes on fire in the same place, and that just shows the light.
The coincidence of yesterday I had not even stopped, and my attention today, but this may be a fluke, and not think about it anymore.
The next day the same thing happens, the suspicion grows that there is a signal.
For a month is verified the same; the time is always the same, but never lack the appearance of light to burn some fire, then I do not doubt or The fact is dependent on the other, or at least some connection between them, and no longer but I need to figure out what a novelty that I fail to understand.
In such cases, the secret to discovering the truth, and prevent unfounded lawsuits, is to attend to all the circumstances of fact, without neglecting any of negligible it may seem.
So in the example above, assuming that little power to fire is presented light, diráse at first sight, it is not necessary to stand in the hour of the night, and neither If this time is on or not.
But in reality these circumstances were very important was because, according to the time, was more or less likely to appear big fire and light; and being always the same, it was much less likely that the relationship they had two events that if it had been mixed.
An unwise not to notice anything like that, alarmed the region with the intended signal, and would not fit doubt that some criminals agree, be explained without difficulty robbery that happened this or that day, they understand what he meant a shot that was heard in that quarter, and the authority would have notice of the evil plot, when black and suspicions would fall on innocent families, behold explorers sent to observe closely the mystery, could very well go back and laughing at the horror scared, and deciphering the enigma in the following terms: "Very near the top where fire burns, lies the home of the family A, which bedtime to a guard deliberately nearby, it is reported that some loggers want to spoil part of the forest replanted.
The Sentinel feels cold, and does very well in non-light a fire to scare anyone, but is to secur the miscreants and rope.
As this is fully hour at bedtime often their neighbors, so does the family that lives in the B summit of the mountain opposite.
At the sound of the clock, lifting the actual owner of the fireplace says to everyone: "let's go to sleep," and in the meantime he goes to a terrace which gives several doors, and pushes the outside to test if the boys have closed properly.
A little time on the fire appears light, and always at the same hour, more or less, which is inclined to believe that a signal.
The country is at peace with this understanding should be wrongdoers.
But overall is not likely to be, because it is not always choose the regular one time and place at risk of being noticed and discovered.
Also that the operation would be very Long lasting a month, and these businesses usually rounded off with a coup de main.
For those houses are near A and B, families of good reputation that they have gone to fact.
So it seems that there must be coincidence or pure chance, or if there are signs, should be about business that does not fear the eyes of justice.
Event Time is exactly as collected the residents of this earth, let's see if this will not be that some tasks oblige one to light a fire, and others to make the light. § VI.
Reflecting on the above example, note that in spite of the sign no relationship or cause, which itself had the two events, however somehow recognize the same origin: sonar bedtime.
This will check to see that the error was in assuming that there was something common in them, or think that the coincidence was purely accidental, but that it appealed to interpretations devoid of foundation, was sought in the intention concerted people what was the simple effect of the identity of the hour.
This observation shows on the one hand the wisdom that must precede the class determine in relation to each other have two events, simultaneous or successive, but otherwise confirmed more and more the rule given, that when the simultaneity or succession are consistent, they argue any link or connection, or of the facts to each other, or both with a third party. § VII.
Delving more matter, we find that the inference of coexistence or succession of relationship between concurrent or subsequent events, although it seems a fairly instinctive and blind, is the application of a principle which we recorded in the depths of our soul, and that We even unwittingly continued use.
This principle is as follows: "Where there is order, where combination, there is cause to order and combined, the chance is nothing. "Once in a match We can look as casual, ie unrelated, but still often repeated, and we without hesitation: "here is link is no mystery, does not reach much chance." This checks that examine in depth the human spirit, are at hand everywhere kindly Providence has been pleased to enrich our understanding and our heart with priceless treasures [6].
Wisdom of the law that forbids rash judgments.
The Christian law prohibiting rash judgments law is not just charity, but of prudence, and good logic.
Nothing is more risky than to judge an action, and above all the intention, by mere appearances, the ordinary course of things has been so complicated events, the men are in so many situations, they act by very different reasons, see the objects so differently, that often looks like a great castle, which examined closely, and the presence of the circumstances is the most natural, the most simple and fixed. § II.
Examination of the maxim "think wrong and miss." The world believes provide a very important rule of conduct, saying "think wrong and error," and imagine having amended in this way the evangelical morality. "It should not be too candid, we are warned continuously, we must not rely on words, men are very bad, actions speak louder than words: "as if the Gospel teaches us to be reckless and imbecile, as if Jesus Christ to encomedarnos us to be innocent as doves, we do not been advised that we did not believe every spirit, that to know the tree atendiésemos fruit, and finally as to the purpose of the wickedness of man, not as we read in first pages of Scripture that man's heart is evil from adolescence.
The maximum pernicious proposed nothing less than ensuring the success with the malignancy of view, is so contrary to Christian charity, as to sound right.
Indeed, the experience teaches us that man a liar but says much more truths than lies, and the more evil for many more good deeds than bad or indifferent.
The man loves Naturally the truth and goodness, and not away from them but when you drag passions and misguided.
Lies provide him a liar in any occasion in which untruthfully, create further their interests or flatter their vanity foolish, but outside of these cases, of course telling the truth, and speak like other men.
The thief steals the light gets out, the quarrelsome quarrel, when the opportunity presents itself, stimulating the passion, as if they were continuous abandoned their evil inclinations, would be monsters, his crime degenerate in dementia, and then the decorum and good order of society would claim imperiously they are above the treatment of their fellows.
Infiérese of these comments the wrong judge, not having the proper foundation, and take malignancy guarantee of success, is as irrational as if having them in an urn many white balls, and very few blacks, it said that the odds are out in Black's favor. § III.
Some rules for judging the behavior of men.
Fit into this matter carefully judicious rules, born of the wisdom of the serpent and not destroy the innocence of the dove.
Should not be trusted in the power of ordinary men, tested very hard.
The reason is clear, very vehement temptations to resist demands firm and unblemished virtue.
Experience teaches us that in such extreme human weakness usually succumb, and the Scripture warns us that whoever loves danger will perish in it.
You know that a reputable merchant is in the greatest distress, when everyone believes him in position very unencumbered.
Your honor, the future of his family, are awaiting a operation fair bit, but very beneficial.
If you decide to it, everything is remedied, if declines, the fatal secret is disclosed, and the total ruin is inevitable.
If the operation you can get hurt, precaveos time to depart from a building while in a regular situation are not ruinous, is now beaten by a furious hurricane.
You have news that two people amiable and beautiful figure, have stuck very relations intimate and frequent, both are virtuous, and even when there is no other reason, honor should be enough to contain them in the proper limits.
If you have interest in it, take your party promptly, if not silent, not judge rashly, but pray to God for both that sentences may not be useless.
You are in the government, the times are bad, the critical time, the dangers many.
A your dependents charged with an important place is besieged by a night and day enemy that has long bags.
The clerk is honored according to you it seems, has great because of you commitments, and is especially enthusiastic about certain principles, and supports with much heat.
Nevertheless, it will be good to not lose sight of the business.
You will make well in believing that the honor and your convictions will crack with no dependent the blows of a hammer than fifty thousand dollars, but you better not probeis, if the consequences were mostly irreparable.
Friendship is old, many powerful titles, the sympathy of hearts is tested, and height of this, there is identity of ideas and feelings.
Suddenly presented a business your friendship has to cost you face, if you do not sacrifice is exposed to severe losses, to imminent danger.
For whatever might happen, resignaos to be a victim, fear that the affectionate protests will remain unfulfilled, and instead of your grief, you will be paid with a satisfaction as whining as sterile.
Are watching an authority to bind, it wants to force an act of high significance, can not access them without degradation, without neglect of duty more sacred, without compromising interests of the utmost importance.
The judge is naturally straight, in his long career not known a felony, and his strength is accompanied by some firmness of character.
However, when you see the storm raging, that the mutiny and up the stairs, when I hit the cabinet door to the bold demagogue who has been in one hand the role to be signed, and another a knife or a gun cocked, fear more about the fate of the business, which for the life of the magistrate.
With the above examples is easy to see that sometimes it is lawful and very prudent distrust of the virtue of men, what happens when the work well requires a provision of mind, which reason, experience and the same religion, we are taught to be very rare.
It is clear moreover, that to suspect evil, is not always necessary that the trouble is such as has been painted.
For the common man much less is usually enough, and definitely bad for the simple equal opportunity to vehement temptation.
This is not possible to identify another rule to discern cases, but must attend to the circumstances of the person who is the object trial, adjusting the probability of evil for their usual inclination to him, or his attachment virtue.
To guess what the conduct of a person in a given case, know your intelligence, character, character, morality, interests and how you can influence their determination.
The man, though endowed with freedom of choice, no longer subject to a crowd influences that contribute mightily to decide.
Forgetting a single circumstance can lead to error.
Then if a man is in a commitment that is difficult to exit without neglect of duty, it seems at first sight that knowing what their morality, and the obstacles which at the time to act according to mediate it, we have sufficient data to predict the success.
But then we took into account a quality that affects on how similar cases: the strength of character.
This oversight may do very well disappoint our hope that a virtuous man, and exceeds the bad, then, that to get graceful virtue rushed circumstances, serve admirably at their disposal for strong passions.
A core of strong and fiery temper, is exalted and encouragement to the new charges Given the danger in the line of duty are interested then the pride and heart would naturally be pleased to overcome obstacles, and face risks, it feels more daring and resolved when it is animated by the cry of conscience.
The yield is weak, the turn back cowardice, the failing in its duty is to manifest fear, is subjected to the insult.
The straight man of pure heart intent, but cowardly, things look very different eyes. "There is a duty, it is true, but brings death who meets, and orphan family.
Evil will also in the same way, and perhaps the disaster will older.
It is necessary to give the time that is yours: the courage not to turn into stubbornness: duties not to be considered in the abstract, it must attend to all the circumstances; cease to be virtues, if not walk governed by prudence.
The good man has been found at last what he wanted: a parliamentarian between good and evil, fear your own costume served not the case, but has been dressed carefully, the transaction will not wait much.
Here's an example well palpable, and certainly nothing imaginary, of the need to attend to all the circumstances of the individual who has to judge.
Unfortunately knowledge of men is one of the most difficult studies, and therefore is collecting thorny task the information needed to get right.
We take great care to rid ourselves of our ideas and conditions, and beware of thinking that others will act as we would work.
The everyday experience teaches us that man is inclined to judge of others taking by pattern himself.
Of proverbs were born here "who does evil, think no evil;" and "the thief thinks that everyone is like him." This inclination is one of the largest obstacles to finding the truth in all matters relating to the conduct of men, she frequently exposed to the virtuous to fall prey to the intrigues of the wicked, and often leads to tested against honesty, and perhaps unblemished virtue, the shots of slander.
Reflection, aided by costly disappointments, sometimes cure this defect, origin of many private and public evils, but its root is in the intellect and heart of man, and must be alert if they are to sprout branches.
The reason for this phenomenon is not difficult to explain.
In most of its reasoning, man comes by analogy. "It has always happened, will happen now and then too." "Commonly after that event, comes as another, then the same will happen today. "From arises here as soon as it offers the opportunity to be a trial, appeal to the comparison; if an instance supports our way of saying, but we affirm it, and if experience provides us with many, without waiting for more evidence we demonstrated the thing.
Is natural that need to compare the objects look more familiar, and which we find more familiar, and as in the case to judge or speculate on the behavior others we need to be recalculated on the reasons that influence the determination of the will inadvertently serve to even what we usually do us and provide the other the same way we look and appreciate the objects.
This explanation, as simple as founded, dutifully noted the reason for the difficulty found in shed our ideas and feelings, if they so rightly calls the in the judgments that we are on the behavior of others.
Who is not accustomed to seeing purposes other than those of their country, it is strange how many of them wobbles, and ceasing first time on home soil is surprised to discover every novelty.
The same thing happens to us in their subject: to anyone that we live more intimately with ourselves and to the less concentrated friends are very clear need for an awareness course ordinarily follow his intellect and will.
Submit a case, and not attending to which what happens in the minds of others, as it were in a foreign land, we naturally led to think that will happen there as well at a little difference that we seen in our homeland.
And since I've started comparing, I might add, that as those who have traveled are not surprised by any variety of ways, and acquire a certain habit to accommodate them all without surprise or disgust, and those who have dedicated themselves to the study of heart, and to the observation of men, are more adept at stripping of their way see and feel, and fit more easily into the situation of others like saying that change of costumes and tenor of life, and take the air and manners of the natives of the new country [7].
HUMAN AUTHORITY IN GENERAL. § I.
Is not always possible to acquire for ourselves the knowledge of the existence of a be, and then we must avail ourselves of the testimony of others.
For this we do not induce to error, requires two conditions: 1 ª.
we do not want to deceive.
Clearly missing any of these two extremes, his testimony used to find the truth.
Matters little to us that the speaker knows it, if his words we express the error, and the truthfulness and good faith not profit us if the possessor is mistaken. § II.
Examination and application of the first condition.
Know if the witness has been misled or not attending to the media that has been available to reach the truth: the media and understand its capabilities and other qualities his personal, more or less fit for purpose.
At referírsenos any fact, when the narrator was an eyewitness, sometimes the good education can not ask who has told, but always respond logically to prescribe this circumstance, and not to provide consent Thin without having been present
