Ines, for style, was also very good.
Don Braulio, as his duties or his humor, was or was not with his wife and sister to these entertainment and parties, to which Rosie was always careful to invite him.
XI It was months since the night he first had appeared in the gathering of the Countess Don Braulio, his wife and sister.
All the wise reflections of Don Braulio his wife had been in vain.
Beatriz liked to shine in society, and to this consideration was of little importance to the advice of its husband.
Seemed to him perhaps exaggerated musings of a man and elder.
Do not know her that deep down Don Braulio had some reason to argue that the gathering of San Teódulo was not the truly great world, it was the legitimate good tone, but could bring her husband this great world?
In various discussions that took Beatrice and her husband about this business, always made silence and emerged victorious.
His arguments were, indeed, difficult to refute.
A well that is not contagious. - I concede that not give the spread when there is no predisposition to do so, but unless you grant me that transcends the bad reputation, that the gossip is not only fattening who deserves it, but people around who deserve it, even if they are not complicit own. - That may be true, but, by dint of wanting to prove much, proves nothing.
If every woman virtuous, with only dealt with one that is not exposed to confuse and equate their behavior with her friend, it is best not dealt with anyone, living as in the tomb.
Kid yourself, Braulio; what you want is to live here so alone and in Seville, facts about ferrets, without dealing with a soul.
As for me I resign ...
to give you taste, but well know it is very hard ...
Such arguments wielded invincible power in the soul of Don Braulio.
Beatriz, seeing him silent and nearly exhausted, gave him a loving look, she smiled sweetly I was a baby, and Don Braulio had to undergo.
Not only was then able to prohibit to go to the gathering of the San Teódulo, but had no right to oppose any madness that occurred to his wife.
There, in the interior of his soul, Don Braulio gave reason at all, not merely by the professed affection for him, but for the making of his intellect and the condition and character their ideas. "What right do I have - he said to himself - so that this beautiful woman, so discreet, so funny so on purpose to be the charm and wonder of those who try to be buried alive in punishment for loving me and took me for a husband?
So it's ridiculous that I please be virtuous society they frequent.
What are the people who compose it.
My wife would exert against a tyrannical act, which would also have something libelous.
His joy was talkative, his speech, delightful.
Said a thousand jokes, subtle and shrewd, to be applauded and loved even more for the accent in Seville with that said, the term its face, the brightness of his eyes and the fresh red lips and white, the same and clenched teeth, including soft gushing, Argentina and easy and spontaneous sympathetic word.
They who covet her beauty the fenced reverent.
So the poet Arthur stopped too close and contented himself with bend the lens for a better view.
In contemplating this pleasant emotions born of Don Braulio.
So admired woman and coveted was his.
Which, perhaps, or safe and perhaps inspire many men love of worth, which at a glance, with a slight favor, could have been filled with pride and happiness, just loved him, and he just kept all the tenderness of his heart, and all the treasure of beauty, as desired and commended.
Don Braulio, however, was one of those creatures who all thrill hard grata little, who suddenly comes the sad thought that poisons such emotion. "But why - they said - I'm the one she loves, the only happy, the owner of the treasure, that holds the key to your heart?
By chance, first, for having found a place where no one had that competed with me.
And then, of a contract set by religion: by a moral, legal and religious, that drives him to love me in an exclusive manner.
Perhaps you would like more. " Then he remembered Don Braulio and analyzed in his mind all touch, every word of love, any sign of sympathy, and it struggled to find what can only come from love, away duty which, coupled with kindness and compassion even, perhaps appropriate.
