The first thing he saw when leaving the flag was the flag Red Cross still flying high in the castle.
On the bridge found several health and one of the doctors.
The hospital had gone with all the wounded carried.
Nothing remained in the building under surveillance a section, the most serious, those who could not move.
The Valkyrie of Health had also disappeared.
The bearded man was among those who had stayed, and seeing Don Marcelo smiled away, disappearing immediately.
The old man sensed a great need, but putting your hand in his pocket, the health held him back: - Nein ...
The huge mouth is dilated with a friendly smile, his huge hands fell on the shoulders of Don Marcelo.
He knew not say more, but could be glimpsed in his words the desire to understand he had always felt great sympathy for the French.
Something important was happening; moody air of those who remained at the door of the castle, the sudden obsequiousness This rustic uniform, gave to understand.
Beyond the building saw soldiers, many soldiers.
An infantry battalion had spread Along the walls, with their wagons and draft horses and riding.
Soldiers managed peaks, opening loopholes in the wall, cutting edge shaped battlements.
Other knelt or sat next to the openings, taking off the backpack to be more rid.
In the distance sounded the barrel, and in the range of their blasts clicks whiplash, a bubbling of frying oil, a mill grinding of coffee, incessant crackle rifles and machine guns.
The cool of the morning covered the men and things of a brightness moisture.
Tufts floating over fields of mist, giving lines near objects uncertain of the unreal.
The sun was a faint spot to go back behind the scenes of mist.
The trees wept for all the edges of their shells.
A clap of thunder rent the air, close and loud, as if burst near the castle.
Desnoyers hesitated, thinking he had been punched in the chest.
The other men remained impassive the indifference of habit.
A cannon had just fired a few paces from him ...
Only then realized that two batteries were installed in their park.
The pieces were domes hidden under branches, the gunners felled trees to mask their guns a perfect disguise.
He saw how they were summoning the past.
With shovels were an edge of land a foot around each one of them.
This edge defending feet of servants, whose bodies were protected by screens on both sides shielded Part.
Then erected a log cabin and branches, leaving visible only the deadly mouth cylinder.
Do not know if this immobility had several hours or one minute.
And started running, not knowing where to go, feeling the same need to hide those experiencing men chained by the discipline required to flatten the ground, to envy the soft Invisibility of reptiles.
Fell on all sides.
Suddenly he saw the red trousers within the park
