The boxes were occupied by as elegant, aristocratic and exquisite kept Peñascosa within it.
Just served the soup, the anthem was heard from D.
Began with a Notes recited kind of dreary, long, run by a tenorete, cabinetmaker trade.
He said if we do not remember wrong: "Peñascosa, sad yesterday Today fortunate, Shake the apathy in which he lived, And progress is released entusiasmaaaada And laaaanza progress eagerly. " After this roll, dark as a lament, the tenor sang with all the emphasis which is likely a cabinetmaker in such cases, the girls attacked vigorously to rejoice. "The courageous people And full of hope A gozaaaaar launches With magic burning. " This classic hymn, and that may well be compared, without diminishing, with the most inspired the Salian priests, in the event that we knew one, immediately aroused guests and the public a thousand ideas of indefinite progress and perfectibility.
For a moment all those high spirits lived two centuries later and saw through the eyes of soul an ideal Peñascosa curd factories and breweries.
It applauded furiously with their hands and spoons.
And although some personage of spirit slight and effeminate said under his breath that he clapped eyes were black and white teeth of the rocks, we are confident that most could appreciate fully pure intent and the classical poet of Peñascosa anthem.
The proof is that when he heard one of the stalls voice: "We want the author!" in all others cried out the same, and the guests expressed the same mouthful desire.
Gaspar finally came on stage and advanced, bending like a bow, to the edge of platform.
After making an effort on their streets, quickly turned and went to pick up forum the author of the music, a plump man, who presented with stiff hairs as a ghost.
The audience broke into applause warmly at them holding hands.
Gaspar pointed to the director of the murga as saying: "To him we owe all." Director of aiming for D.
Murga Gaspar, demonstrating for mimicry: "The victory is the Lord." Finally, unable to express a more profound admiration for plastic that one was on the other and fit that their spirits enthusiasts, embraced in the middle of the stage and stayed together long enough.
We do not know what mysterious influence, magic can have on a contest the act of hugging two individuals of the same sex, but if we declare that we saw was the same surprising effect.
We that science is still in a state to give a satisfactory explanation to this enigma.
That was a whirlwind, a delirium lasted more than ten minutes the noise, while Euterpe and Thalia remained closely entwined.
When the crowd began to lull heard a voice say: "That kiss!" Apparently, who launched this cry was a journalist Lancia.
If it was a joke, the truth is that I had precious little grace.
In mock where the ceremony that celebrated the moral and material regeneration Peñascosa was a insolence, and as rightly said D.
Juan Casanova, "was not a good idea of ??the culture of Lancia press. "kissed not because, although D.
Gaspar was certain tendencies to do so, their noses too close to the face of purple appeared, but this one withdrew, giving evidence of prudence, because it spoke in terms of very serious Peñascosa D.
Finished the anthem, started again and repeated indefinitely to desserts.
A few governors to oust gives municipalities, others because they take the mattresses placed the Provincial.
To him was by eloquence.
replied Peregrin Casanova, and was able to call him "my distinguished companion "and allude to the high duties imposed by the government of a province," he had tried to meet once the extent of weak forces. "He also spoke D.
José Mary the apothecary, advocating the advancement of religion as "an element of progress" (le frasecillas were certain that the time was a freethinker) and as "obstacle to the desires bastards. "Jose spoke the tobacconist, spoke D.
Remigio Flórez, the manufacturer of canned food, spoke the editor of El Porvenir Lancia (a few days ago that he had fought a saber D.
Rosendo Belinchón, director of The Lighthouse Sarrió).
An editor of The Young Sarrio tried to say a few words, but he was interrupted with a few murmurs from the boxes, and sat very bland.
Understanding, however, with profound insight, the sublime destination that heaven had designated sang, as poets and demigods of antiquity, all that is offered his view, peace and war, democracy and manors, religion and free thought.
This ode, which began: "Oh sweet religion immaculate!" Was spirited and was greeted with live samples approval.
The banquet ended dark.
At six o'clock the sexton and some city employees began to illuminate the lanterns the Venetian Field of fainting, so that the eight were almost all on.
The evening was made very happy.
In one corner of the villagers danced to Country sound of the bagpipe and drum, and another did the same the craft to the beat of the municipal band.
People ran through the free space less and less relief, as the street Quadrant could not stop vomiting blue blouses and scarves on the above Country percale.
The most exquisite peñasquense society took refuge on the porch of the church, establishing the familiar caste divisions.
Organizose a walk immediately where strangers could Lancia see at a single glance all the great and majestic in its enclosed Peñascosa breast.
There was the mass gathering of Ms Eloisa, and also another part of the nobility The villa, with which we could not put the reader in relationship.
Having enjoyed for a long time the pleasure of seeing, as the immortals on Mount Olympus, isolated and above other created beings, that society was breaking into the field of Fainting to watch the fireworks from the renowned pyrotechnic Palencia.
Entered without decomposition, with a disdain and severity of respect calculated to replenish the heart of the lower castes.
Flowing down like a monkey through the beautiful dark, seeking the proximity of the obese women and if not, the of which were in regular meat, he was our friend Osuna, administrator Montesinos home.
By the time he was not surprised won more than a slap; strange case, because in these nights of fun used to meet half a dozen, so less.
Somewhat disappointed in this aspect, not so much as slapping what preceded them, She moved impatiently glancing butchers around him, without finding a place enough pleasant and delightful to set their steps.
That night they had met all the skinny of rocks.
But lo, when it starts to burn the first round of gunpowder, discerns not far from the cool Ms Theodora, the constant dream of its existence, more radiant and lush than ever, with his white hair and pink cheeks smooth and shiny skin.
Verla and set out for it was all one.
But this way in such circumstances was more difficult than anyone can imagine.
People thronged to see the fireworks and remained motionless, forming a thick wall.
Our hunchback's through with diabolical art, writhing like a lizard to pass through the narrow holes.
After a good time managed to get behind the cute buxom.
He was escorted by two brothers Casanova, who had come along together with the maid.
Continued fighting over their hearts, furious effort by the D.
Peregrin, with noble and severe tranquility by D.
In this contest the virtuous and mature love girl suffered a lot, believe guilty of the best fights that erupted between two brothers.
Sought to maintain neutrality but missed seeing D.
Explicábale it in the tone sufficiency that characterized him, some interesting details of the fireworks industry and cited a number of fires he had seen during his time as clerks, truly amazing.
Poor Juan, who had never left the narrow space of rocks and could not cite anything, silent as ever.
But he ran buxom pulquérrima occasionally a soft look and a soft smile still, they could compensate for his sedentary life.
When Ms Theodora turned his head to see who pressed both and found Osuna changed color.
That damned hunchback never gave her no peace.
At the gathering, on the promenade, in the theater, church, anywhere where I had occasion to approach, was known need was seen to suffer the nasty touch their legs and sometimes their hands too.
Osuna was familiar with his ground.
The beautiful and buxom pudorosa had fallen before dying of embarrassment to admit to any attacks he was receiving.
But if the confession, anyone could ascertain them, noting the state of agitation he was.
On this occasion, the hunchback walked excessively bold.
Ms Theodora began show signs of anxiety such that for any would be visible.
Juan did not see no however.
It was a pure and magnanimous man, incapable of suspecting the big dirt can have on earth.
Peregrin, a man of the world, concluded by noting some what was happening.
Osuna spied the corner of my eye, and when his spirit went into government the conviction of the violation being committed, he began to snore and whistle for nose as a mist in danger, while throwing glances of indignation flashing the bold hunchback.
Peregrin catching by the neck the deformed and shaking with rage .-- If you continue in this way annoying Madam, with this hand (holding the right) give a slap on the cheek, and with the other (Holding the left) will give you another slap in the opposite direction.
Continuous act will come back to you, and with these boots fat you see here I give you two kicks in the butt.
Peregrin was no purpose to instill panic in the heart of enemies.
However, severe and administrative continent as few and the voice stream great that nature endow him pretty well made up for the deficiency of other organs.
In addition, Osuna was to be weaker and more wretched than he.
For this and the uproar that ensued then, instead of coping, slipped into the crowd and disappeared in a time.
Ms Theodora, to be the subject of public curiosity, she fainted.
Juan and the Maiden sustained it.
The crowd laughed, cried, stirred noisily.
At last all was peace, and returned to his buxom prudish home where we will spread a flood of tears.
Obdulia, busy all day by a sharp pain and a rabid desire to redress injustice had been committed to his beloved spiritual director, did not leave home or bed.
Had a fever, the fever that occurs in the temperament like hers a single thought to be exacerbated by degrees.
At night he got up and dressed hastily.
Her large blue circles are now marked in a way shocking.
A Wrinkle deep, unshakable resolution sign, he furrowed his brow.
She called the maid and said he wanted to go out and see the fireworks.
All it did to dissuade her, by representing the serious damage that could cause the cold and damp night, it was useless.
He took the blanket, threw it over the head with convulsive hand, forced to be domestic hers and took to the streets.
The Field of boiling and people fainting.
Obdulia wanted at all costs approach the house the pastor, where he was staying prelate.
He had seen it shining glasses and hide immediately in one window.
Below, on the very doorstep of the rectory, a large group giraldilla girls danced, singing as loud improvised couplets of circumstances at the time.
Them alluded to the new church, compliments to the Bishop, the Governor, Peñascosa the founding fathers, without missing either, of course, the usual little stitch to Sarria.
The imagination of Osuna's daughter worked tirelessly to increase the fever that consumed her.
But over a thousand thoughts and ghosts circling it, sticking out an idea fixed, stubborn, who unwittingly drove his way with his elbows through the crowd, followed by the maid, who did not understand the desire of his lady.
When they were coming to the rectory, she stopped a few minutes.
Observed from the corner of the eye to her maid, and when he saw more absorbed in the contemplation of the fires that were burning, maneuvered skillfully and moved away from her hiding among the people.
After conducting countless looks of anxiety and fear of the priest's house after met more than twenty times and to repent so many, finally slipped like a shadow behind the girls dancing and having a circle of spectators around, and entered the door of the house.
Inside it had a few servants who talked looking from there they could.
Was wide open, and Obdulia, without saying word was introduced by her and climbed a few stairs.
But stopping suddenly and remaining an indecisive moment, turned to lower them and went to the group home. - Is the secretary of the bishop's up? - Asked to nearest. - D.
Yes, ma'am, is up - said one of the most distant. - Could you speak a word with him? - Why not? ...
Rose both in the dirty step D.
Miguel, as neither by the arrival of the prelate had cleared. - Have the kindness to wait a moment.
Appeared shortly after the secretary, a middle-aged cleric, ugly, ungainly, but look smart and outspoken.
The secretary looked at her more curiously still, and after a moment's hesitation, appearing on her face a hint of a smile, replied: - You understand that the time is appropriate ...
Your Excellency is going to retire soon to rest ... - It is urgent and very important I have to tell ...-- said abruptly.
Again looked at the priest with penetrating eyes, noticing her agitation. - Well ...
What I can do is tell your gift to His Grace ...
Do not answer that you receive it at this time ...
Can you pass this room and wait a moment.
No take to bring the answer.
He opened the door of the boudoir of receipt, he brought a lamp and left her alone.
At that moment She felt that leaving all his strength.
The heart started pounding him chest.
The room was moving slowly as the chamber of a vessel.
Was forced to be held with both hands on the back of a chair for not coming to the floor.
Secretary appeared within minutes, without crossing the door frame, said with affected solemnity - Your Excellency will arrive at this time.
Obdulia closed her eyes and gripped more tightly to the chair.
When he opened them before him him the towering figure of the prelate.
The room was half-lit because of the screen that covered the lamp.
Contours of that figure faded into the shadows.
But diamonds sparkled pectoral and glass lenses also shone the faint rays of light on them fell.
Advanced a few steps down the hall.
Obdulia dropped to his knees. - Is it for a matter of conscience, my daughter - the prelate asked him sweetly, giving at the same time to kiss his ring. - Yes, sir - the young voice replied with emotion altered .-- It is for a matter of conscience of His Excellency. - About my conscience? - Said the bishop, rising slowly and dropping on it a look of surprise and curiosity. - The pure consciousness, His Excellency knows better than me, is subject to error.
When believe we are doing good do evil.
The Soul of Your Grace is noble and holy, according to all who know her.
But the eyes of His Excellency does not reach all parts as those of God.
His arm is extended in vain to bless.
we learned with pain all the faithful, instead of letting him in the position that performed in the interim, Your Excellency has given it to someone else ...
The bishop gazed in silence for a space.
