Suffice it quickly pointed to dispel unfounded blame.
Preserving their independence, appropriated ideas about and others, as more suited to the nature of his thought, but coordinating them in it, and giving them the unique stamp of his person.
On the dazzling spell of any new system, from Kant to Hegel, Goethe put his critically high, its judicious skepticism a so-called common sense, because more was rare and exquisite, some Leibnizian theories and a deep-rooted religious feelings never so much season left in disbelief, and so much fermentation and flourish new metaphysical.
His doctrines on aesthetics, according to its basic philosophy with the natural condition v of his mind, have no small claim in the history of this new science, and prepare major reform and the development Schiller conducted under the auspices and according to the footsteps of Kant.
Diderot and Winkelmann are the two authors who exert influence on the theories of Goethe art, and have more to do with them.
By imitating himself, called imitator, who invented without imitating, ghost.
It is true that in this creation is implied an end, moral and social, very useful and beneficial, what Aristotle called purification of passion: what Goethe called the rescue, redemption or freedom.
It is evident that the characteristic, which is taken by imitating nature, can and often be painful passion, action-packed mayhem and grief, which in reality hurts, wounds, kills or pain, rather than causing pleasure.
So terror and pity become feeling happy, full of ineffable sweetness.
This change is due to start softening of beauty, grace, symmetry, order and measure of form.
Hence, for Goethe, the ideal type of art in sculpture, was not Apollo, but the Laocoon, where pain, compassion, and horror are softened by the grace of beauty, to the point trocar in sovereign and peaceful enjoyment.
Under this principle, Goethe unfortunate release of their passions, memories that brought him more grief, desires most tormented him and even his remorse, taking them for the object of his observation, making them a matter of imitation, looking at them the characteristic, and going after the powerful imagination to embroider on that trace first a poem, a legend or a drama, a work of poetry, which left him comforted and free, and should have over other men the same beneficent influence exerted on him.
In this sense it could secure and Goethe said that all his works of imagination were fragments of their confessions.
It was therefore subjective poet, if attended to, by declaration own, no one of his fables, which is not part of his autobiography, and objective that he himself gave as an object of observation, and with another independent self, created work, judged and condemned to their heroes, and acquitted at the end or at least comforting balm heaven, with wonderful soothing poetic beauty.
This soothing and cleansing under art beautiful or sublimating is achieved when the object of passion or action, provided to be sublimated or beautiful.
When not supplied, the art is another resource: the comic or the ridiculous.
For example, a belly ache or toothache, the simplicity that is left cheat, fear not having enough money, illness, being ugly and sickly and other things in the same order, have no poetry, no more comfort than laughter, while not pass of lower degree.
When you go in that grade, and played in the tragedy, are poor representations artistic, because they are passions, defects and doped pains not to embellish.
No produce and the comic, no less pathetic, but the deformed and nasty and disgusting; realism deplorable that today have the drama and the novel.
Nothing further from the true poetry the hungry, the beggar, the consumptive or hunchback.
These are impurities of the real, poetry or tragic or the comic can find comfort.
Us seek comfort in charity, and the remedy in science, so far as possible.
Such, in brief, was the man, and such the main items of the man who conceived and produced FAUSTO poem.
FAUSTO the idea of ??always accompanied him, was a major concern of his life.
Goethe in his first youth begins to write Faust, in his extreme old age, eighty years, when he finished, or rather, not End time: even after his death leaves pieces, Chronicles, which belong to Faust, who are part of the great posthumous poem.
Goethe the same energy to get rid of his characters, although out of his own and to be passionate and moving, he remained impassive and serene, I did prefer the narrative poem, a more objective, impersonal yet perfect: the drama.
In the drama the vanishes completely poet's personality.
The characters just feel, suffer, move and carry out the action.
Furthermore, regardless of material difficulties, counting stagehand and painter with exuberant designer and flying imagination building within the limitless space an ideal theater, where fit heaven, hell and all creation, and provide a company of actors, where there are angels, devils, mermaids, elves, Oberon, Titania, Ariel, Olympian gods, gods underground, all the blessed of the heavenly court, the Eternal Father, the Virgin Mary, witches, monkeys and cats, and even stars, rivers, mountains, and earthquakes that speech and action, Strait dramatic picture expands to fill the immensity and everything fits in it comfortably.
This does not mean, however, that Faust, as a whole, is so large that can not be represented.
The synthesis of the work is not covered as well as you want.
It would be necessary, or see him from afar with a telescope, RIEF walking or on horseback, at full gallop, to preserve the impression of what had painted on one end when the other end is reached.
Do not be surprised, then, that waver on the method we have to continue to give an idea of FAUSTO, and finally we decide to do a split.
Consider first the drama Faust as simple as human drama, that is, not see in him but the first half, discarding anything that justifies it, calls and requires the creation the second.
And let's talk after the second part, and everything that makes FAUSTO a mysterious poem, encyclopedic and philosophical claims or archi-deep realities.
From now on we will close all books, FAUSTO least the same, and to issue our Apparently, without being guided by anyone.
Let us just say that the views of critics are diverse and even found, and that foreigners are often the most enthusiastic commended the second part, as Blaze de Bury and Lerminier, while some critics and historians German German literature, of great note, such as Gervinus and Kurz, no estimate the second part, reaching out to an unjust severity with her, and even see it fall.
Comparing Goethe Milton, say the first is the second FAUSTO FAUSTO what Paradise Lost to Paradise regained.
Adopting, for now, the comparison, let's start with Paradise Lost.
Goethe did not invent the good sense and character matter for drama: the people gave created.
The legend of Faust was popular not only in Germany but in other European countries.
His sets and adventures were depicted in puppet theaters, fairs and markets, and loved the people.
Assert poets had already tasted the case and the legendary character, and had tried to write or had written dramas on FAUSTO.
Lessing had left the illustrious started a FAUSTO, in drama.
If we ignore the name and the historical foundation of the character, that is the center of the legend, the legend is still much more popular, oldest and best known and applauded in all the towns Christians.
No nation in Europe where there is no history scholar who is tired of studying without honor or profit, to deny knowledge, which does not give you enjoyment, and that excited by rage, by disappointments, by ambition or thirst of delight, just do pact with the devil, to have fun and have money, and what we now call position, although then have to pay it all in the depths of hell.
Sage, in effect, sports worship the devil that serves him well: and finally, through the intercession of a saint, or goodness the Virgin Mary, or the infinite mercy of God, mocked the enemy often leaves bad and manages to go to heaven.
In our literature we have this legend in Las Cantigas of King Alonso, and Gonzalo Berceo, and something like that gives matter to Calderon for his famous comedy The prodigious magical.
The issue was very well chosen and could not be better for Goethe, who was a sage as Faust, and that while more fortunate, have had, like all scientists, not a few moments of bitterness in that despair of pedants, and wanting to teach others what they themselves do not know, and doubt the worth and utility of his writings, and exclaim mimicking Doña Mariquita pearls .-- If I cry, that is, if I had money, would not need to write nonsense, - and are in addition often prompted to be the devil if the devil you take the trouble to take them and buy the soul
