Valentina, embroidery, too, and blonde, was not so beautiful.
Its smaller eyes, your less sensitive skin, nose a little rolled up, the lower height.
Instead his hair gold was curly and he fell gracefully over his forehead, his hands and feet more sensitive and shorter than those of Nevis, and, above all, had often, almost constantly, a frown, a furrowed brow that he was not angry and gave his face a shade picaresque extremely friendly.
Encarnacion was a seamstress, waitress robust, red, pudgy, vulgar appearance.
Artisans of Sarrió going through the best girl of the four-to the intelligent and refined connoisseur worth much.
Teresa, a seamstress too, was on his face true blackberry, and darker which, the jet black hair, slanted eyes and as black as his hair, nose and mouth right.
Ugly passing through the village because of color: in fact it was a beautiful oriental.
Of the two daughters of the house, a, Generosa had nothing to draw attention, the other, Elvira, was a palidita, eyes large, closed, very funny.
The Sarrió artisans have never gone for the ridiculous imitation of the ladies, so widespread Today, unfortunately, among other peoples of Spain.
They believed and believe these distinguished Sarrio, and I entirely endorse his view that the costume and fashions adopted by the ladies sees our little not let your natural graces before the undermining.
In First are not accustomed to wear such as subject or tight costumes demand from their subordinates.
Then, in the villages no one cut in style.
Who to drop more grace, even so, the curls of hair in the front carelessly studied?
No doubt it.
The Sarrió artisans whose aesthetic principles are rooted admiration of friends and strangers, especially now that the characters disappear, do good to maintain their independence and to raise his head in front of the swanky ladies of the villa.
Because (let's put under so that they do not find out) the truth is that they are much more beautiful.
This, without offending anyone in particular, save me God.
No traveler peninsular Sarrió remind that does not assert the same with more or less energy depending on the nature of temperament.
No inglesote those which call for a few days to the end of Pawn to talk back in Cardiff or Bristol to friends of this Spanish town, not starting up many eyebrows, open mouth in a circle extending out perfect lips and leaning back in his chair not exclaim: - Oh, oh, oh!
Yeung Sarrió the girls very, very, very beautiful!
And when the English say, do not tell the Spanish, and in particular those We have lived so long under their beneficent influence!
The four officers and Nevis as well, though it stung higher, belonged then to the famous breed of women whose preservation and prosperity I pray to heaven all days and advise all that makes a good Catholic.
In the working days wore calico Wool mantoncito tied back and silk scarf around his neck, revealing, of course, head.
Nieves, by exception, brought to China Daily black shawl with fringe.
Just get to work after lunch.
The sun penetrates the two balconies in the room to through the curtains.
For you do not mind, seamstresses fall into one of the corners.
Teresa, the most Philharmonic them softly sings a song romantic and shy sad and prolonged cadences, on purpose to be accompanied in third.
And indeed, Snow was quick to give the duo, as there was said.
All of which is a harmony Asaz melancholy flavor romantic stark.
The romance may escape the customs and being thrown in the novel and theater, most always find a warm nest and delicious where shelter in the heart of Sarrió young artisans.
Harmony that lasts until the charge of breaking Pablito releasing it suddenly in the midst of his booming voice of ram.
The beautiful Pablito, leaning back in his chair in another corner, laughs too loud with strong of His grace.
It had been nearly a month since I came on horseback or by car, and not passed on block over an hour every day.
Came daily to look, but in vain. - Look, Pisces, today I have to clean the silver stirrups, I can not leave .-- Look, Pisces I have to go to collect a letter on behalf of father .-- Look, Pisces, Linda is with torozón and it can not be mounted. - It is good - growled Pisces. - Do you come from the block? - Yes. - Well ...
anyway today because I can not leave ...
Some days Pisces entered the sewing room, and without saying anything sitting waiting a while not very long is almost never because harbored strong suspicions that the seamstresses were laughing him, and this was startled and embers.
When he felt the time is right, or because they have symptoms of fatigue in Paul or any other circumstance which is within our reach, rising from the seat and made a hand signal to his friend whistled at the same time.
This is because they understood much better than words whistles.
Both disliked by the articulate sound, especially Pisces, and spared his job.
Be sure to come tomorrow, eh? ...
He said this with great gentleness and kindness, to make amends.
Pisces muttered a 'good evening "without turning to the bystanders, and crooked left eye, ugly and devilish than ever.
The next day the same.
Despite the reverence that inspired him Pablito Pisces came to assume that he liked one of the seamstresses.
Dona Paula, who had admiration for his eldest son idolatrous, and yet kept a grudge against her daughter by her answers, though it is largely paid for her beauty, wine that aid. - You're right Paul.
Cecilia heard these sayings with a smile on his lips and flushed.
Since they had started wedding preparations, her cheeks, once so pale, they were almost always flushed.
This liveliness and happiness lent brightness to your eyes, if not pretty, made it interesting and friendly.
No girl on the eve of marriage ceases to be more or less.
Cecilia was reserved and quiet condition, without giving in so taciturn.
Ordinarily spoke only when addressed him, but his answers were smooth, clear, accurate.
It was the hallmark of his character's shyness, which often provide sovereign spell girls.
But in place of this quality, our heroine had a sweet serenity, some nice strength in all his words and gestures that reveal the perfect clarity of his spirit.
This serenity was happening for some people some observers, if not for pride, it was clear that Cecilia did not have it, for coldness of heart.
Believed, even the close to the house, which was unable to conceive a passion alive and tender.
Accustomed to see impassive fulfilling domestic duties with clockwork regularity, I was forced a major effort to penetrate, not everyone can perform to divine the true The oldest moral physiognomy of Belinchón.
Most of these beings live and die unknown, because they have one of those shining qualities that appeal to and attract approaches.
Innocence itself, oddly enough, belongs to that number, and not what less attention paid to a woman's character.
Very few are those who appreciate the beauty crystal contained in these souls.
The look is immersed in them without finding anything to wake up attention.
But the same goes for certain poisons, as with certain filters that give life.
Because our eyes do not look clumsy and limited elements of health or death there suspended in them, are we to say that there?
It was difficult out sad or unpleasant emotions that crossed the soul of Cecilia, but not impossible.
We do not know if I put effort to hide or was forced upon them by the same nature.
The truth is that in the house, even his parents almost always the unknown.
It was, eg, leaving one day visits, or to buy a dress, Dona Paula asked her daughter to request: - How about that, Cecilia? - Sounds good - answered it. - You okay, really? - Said the mother looking into her eyes. - Yes, Mom, that's fine.
Dona Paula was always in doubt whether he pleased or really disliked the dress or whatever.
Cried very few times, and even those are hidden to make it so that nobody knew.
The biggest disappointment that he had, only denounced by a slight wrinkle on the forehead; the greatest joy for a little more intensity in the delicate smile, constantly spread his face.
When Gonzalo wrote from abroad, so read the letter submitted his mother and handed. - Do you like the boy? - Asked after reading it with more emotion than he had expressed his daughter to deliver. - Do you like yourself? - To me yes. - Well if you like you and dad, I also like - said the girl.
However, as love is the human feeling more difficult to conceal, and then the consent of their parents had no reason to hide, let him see quite clarity.
In the temperaments as our heroine, any sign, however slight, is crucial.
The happiness that filled his heart, sprang, therefore, to his face in view of all who knew her intimately.
Few beings have enjoyed most in the land Cecilia in that season.
All that canvas spread across the room, those patterns paper, drawings, racks, spools of thread, I spoke a mysterious language and tender.
Scissors to cut chis chis, sewing needles to creak, crunch, they said so funny things in the future!
Sometimes they said: '- Who do you see, Cecilia, go to Mass Sundays arm your husband?
He will lead the prayer book, I will go to the altar of Our Lady of Sorrows and placed behind men.
When the different parts were finished and ironed clothes, Cecilia was getting the carefully in a basket.
So I was filled with the rose on her head to one of the rooms above, where art with care and placed shirts, blouse, caps and hairdressers on some desks made the attempt: the delicately covered with a cloth, and then out closing the door and keeping the key in his pocket.
After he had saluted, Gonzalo went to sit by Pablito, and passing his hand familiarly over his shoulder, whispered: - What is your favorite
