Despite be one of the richest bankers in Madrid, had refused without fur store, and that this trade, compared with letters and public purposes that the house had out, soon he represented.
Calderon was a different type of Salabert banker.
Had a temperament essentially conservative, timid to a fault for business, preferring Always small for big gains when it is achieved at risk.
When fail to see a partner in some, smiled mischievously and gave himself Rejoice for the great talent he was gifted.
If she wore to class on a force had been pleading his wife, made fun of his friends, and especially because he had become convinced that needed to enjoy a certain prestige outside if it was to compete with the many intelligent bankers established in court.
Times had changed a lot since his father hoarded a significant portion of the turns in the plaza.
But after taking care purchased with such dedication to the preservation of furniture, such finesse required monitoring the servants, his wife and their children, they really were all slaves of those expensive devices.
Whenever the driver told him that a horse was unfettered, was a disappointment.
Trunk had a pretty French mares price.
The pampered as much or more than their children.
Sacábalas a walk in the evenings, but not leading to the theater for fear of pneumonia.
He preferred that his wife was on foot or by cab, to expose themselves to the loss of one of them.
Needless to say, if one is her sick, what was in our bank.
The concern, dejection on his face was painted.
Visitábala often, stroking, and often helped the driver and the vet to the priests, but consisted of putting enemas.
To heal the sick there was no humor in the house.
He was a husband cominero.
The apathy of his wife was so great that if he did not take charge of taking the account to cook and manage the keys cabinets, God knows how would walk home.
Mariana had neither running anything.
Its role was the daughter of a family, and accepted it without regret.
Another woman humiliated anyone believe going to need every moment to her husband for the smallest chores domestic life.
She juzgábalo natural, and above all very comfortable when the sordid economy Calderon did not tighten.
The once silently protesting against the exclusive centralization of administrative powers was his mother, thin lady, sunken eyes, whom we mentioned in the first chapter.
In the background was a perfect agreement between the mother and son.
The old widow provincial merchant, who had helped to carve its capital, was still mistress of order and the economy, rather, was even more stinging him.
For this had not ever been able to live with his son, his excessive spending, and especially waste, outrageous whims Clementina, irritated, bitter all moments of existence.
Calderon's home, his role was to guard or inspector servitude, which played so marvelously.
Thanks to this and that Mariana expected to improve in the will, the more kept considerations relating to it.
Salabert was, at bottom, so greedy as Calderón and almost as shy, but much smarter.
His shyness was offset by a good dose of bravado: his greed for knowledge men deep.
He knew well that the device, the ostentation of wealth, influence significantly even in the minds of the more carefree, contributed significantly to inspire the confidence to undertake major companies.
Hence the luxury with which he lived, his palace, trains, famous dances from time to time gave Madrid society.
Calderon's character inspired by a profound contempt: while awaking him good humor.
Seeing the smallness of his friend growing up, gazed larger than that actually was and felt great satisfaction.
Judged not only more skilled, beating (Only positive benefits brought him), but generous and liberal, almost a prodigal.
Penetrated snorting in the dark Street store in San Felipe Neri, leaving as usual stunned, killed, annihilated dependents, for whom the Duke of Requena not only was the first man in Spain, but a supernatural being.
Producíales his view it impression of fear and excitement, fear and fervent adoration to the great Japanese Mikado.
And if not prostrate and buried his face in the dust like those, at least he blushed to the ears and not successful in a few minutes to put pen to the paper or pay attention to what the customer told them.
They looked to signs fear and they began to quietly what everyone knew too well: "The Duke!" "The Duke!" "The Duke!" The Duke rose, as usual when by chance was there, without deigning to throw a glance and went straight to the small apartment where Calderón used to be.
This is not a banking house, is one block away.
There is an unbearable stench.
Calderón occupied at the end of the store, a corner from the rest by a screen table painted with a little door spring.
He could hear, then, all the words of his friend before it pushes the screen. - What is it, man! - Said something piqued by becoming aware of the invective dependents -; Dukes and we are not all the millions we are entangled in the feet. - What a million! "It takes millions to have an office clean and comfortable?
What must confess it hurts you spend a dime on tidy.
I'll be a thousand richest real whenever you a thousand dollars; because I spend it.
The Duke, still wearing the hat, let himself fall into the only chair that there was lined with white bandana, or it must have been white.
Now had an indefinable color yellow to amber, green ash and bottle, strong black accents in places to support the head and hands.
There were also three or four lined sidewalks of the same and in the same state, a pine bookshelf full of bundles, a small box of values, an ancient writing table in walnut and covered in black rubber and behind it a rough and greasy chair where he sat the head of the house.
That small apartment was clarified by a window with bars.
For pedestrians could not register it had curtains that, in addition to being the most regular and cheap in gender, offered the curious circumstance of each too long and the other as short was missing about a quarter to cover the entire glass down. - But man, do not let you move in that happy home fur trade, which is not worthy a man of your performance and your fortune. - Fortuna ...
fortune - Calderón muttered while looking at the paper he was writing -.
Calderon never confessed his money: he enjoyed in lie on the ground.
Any reference to annoyed him extremely rich.
On the contrary, Salabert liked to give in face his millions and represent the Nabob, of course, to the lowest possible cost. - In addition - he went with a bad mood - everybody look at what goes in, but no serving what emerges.
Then spend seventy-five thousand dollars, and we're still in November. - What? - Said the Duke with deep surprise -.
No way. - You heard me. - Go, go, do not put me finger on the eyes, Julian ....
Unless in those seventy five thousand dollars are including the cost of the house you are making in the Oven Mata. - Well, naturally.
At Duke he was seized with such a blow to hear this laughter, he almost drowns.
I had not happened so far ....
From here on out will include in the cost of my house all purchases of securities and all that builds homes.
I will appear spending more than a king.
The so frank and loud laughter of the Duke ran extremely upset and Calderon. - Do not know what is that laugh ....
If you leave the box, on the expenditure side is ....
All However, Antonio else knows the crazy in your house that the sane on others.
The duke, in some time now, often visits his friend and companion.
Began to make the thread to lure the business of river mines.
Approaching the time that the auction was to be effected.
Then needed to have some shareholders consideration.
Enjoyed in the business world fame cautious of suspicious better.
So that the fact of taking part in any speculation of security clearances, and this was what Salabert needed.
With great flexibility, with the refinement it had under its rough bark, he knew put in a good temper praising his foresight in a failed business where it was left to catch, skinning other tacitly recognizing enemies and merchants on their superior talent and penetration.
When I had it fretted, spoke to him for the third or fourth time, in vague terms, business mine.
However, f. .., with a little skills and working well, perhaps over time ....
Necesitábanse then some men who had no objection to a good capital investment.
Calderón, to hear about a business, such as snails cringed when touched.
That of was so fat now, for the undecided data supplied him with the Duke, who was forced to getting hit in the shell.
So Salabert began to specify a little, stood grim and dark, showed himself wary and restless, as if he were then to demand the same amount exorbitant.
When he had finished his long speech, a bit incoherent, that seemed more like a monologue, Duke rose sharply. - Well, Julianito, I'm outta here to the Bank.
At the same time took out another cigarette from the flask, and without offering, because he did not smoke, lit by formula, then let them go off at once for biting.
Julian breathed with satisfaction. - You always this hectic activity! - Said, smiling and extending his hand. - Always follow the money!
When I was about to transpose the door, he remembered that Calderón could use this visit. - Hey, Antonio: I have a lot of london there ....
Trasladóse the Bank, attended the meeting, and after nine thousand dollars effective heel Urreta out with his friend, another famous bankers of Madrid.
Arriving near of the Puerta del Sol, shook hands in farewell. - Where are you going? - Asked Salabert. - I go from here to Calderon's house to see if you can give me London. - It is useless to the ride - said sharply the first -.
Ten thousand pounds at least. - I can not much, but for eight thousand, you can send this afternoon.
Urreta's face lit up with a grateful smile. - Man, I can not afford! ...
You will be short too .... - Not as much as you ....
You know that he loves.
At the same time as you take hugged, gave affectionate pat on the shoulder.
Estrecháronse hand again, and after Urreta burst into phrases of gratitude, to which answer Salabert in that tone campechanote sharp and both enhances the merit of any service, goodbye.
The Duke immediately took a cab. - A la calle de San Felipe Neri, number .... - Okay, Duke - answered the coachman.
He raised his head to look at him the hero. - Hello!
Julian - shouted to his friend before opening the desktop screen -.
I've always needed me to do what you should you drop ....
And without going into the office vacated the screen that had held spring and left.
Gave signs the driver of a hotel in the neighborhood Monastery and leaned at an angle, biting and puffing his cigar with evident satisfaction.
Experimentóla our banker after committing this rascality, after stripping to his friend a few Calderón pesetas, as the just concluded an act of justice or charity.
His imagination, always alert for cases where there was money, wandered, as the carriage drove him to the Hippodrome the various businesses through that was committed, but most notably stopped mine in the rivers.
The combination of Llera seemed to him getting better.
To reinforce the thinking was applied until the car stopped at the gate of a small hotel cheap to build, with very ornate plaster and wood that made him resemble the works of confectionery.
Saved in three steps the tiny garden.
Al climb the few stairs on the ground floor out the door a young maid. - Hello, Petra: What about your love? - Sleep yet, Duke. - Well, are the twelve - she pulled her stopwatch -.
And passing in front of her, entered the octagonal antesalita.
Despojóse the overcoat that got home and was responsible for hanging.
Entered the bedroom where was a cabinet room, separated by columns and a brocade curtain.
Was furnished with a wealth of dubious taste.
Instead of the label that prints any person, if not entirely vulgar, the decoration and adornment of their rooms, watched the hand of the furniture maker to comply commission that has been given, according to the current pattern.
The wooden doors of the balcony were open.
The light came in through a transparent representing a chocolate-colored landscape.
The walls were padded with yellow damask, gilded chairs were like a center and a bedside cupboard to put goodies.
Watched in this room, belonging to a woman, the same disorder that usually present rooms for students or military.
On the rich velvet carpet had some spit and cigar tips.
In the delicate side table in the center with a liquor bottle almost empty and bowls out of place.
The Duke looked grim at this liquor and gently lifted the curtain of the bedroom.
In neat bed of ebony inlaid with ivory, lay a young white skin, very white, and black hair, very black.
Rested with abandonment no finesse, in a position of well-fed animal.
Even in the dream is possible to know status and spirituality of the individual.
Salabert had a moment the curtain suspended.
Then held her carefully, and sitting on had an armchair beside the bed, began to look intently at the beautiful sleeping.
His features, notably accurate and sensitive: Greek profile, small and pretty face, straight nose, a bit thick red lips, the skin, a wonder of nature, a mixture of alabaster and mother-of roses and milk, below which ran abundant and rich life.
Hair, black and bright, were loose, staining with scented oil batiste pillow.
Despite the cold weather, one arm and almost half out of the sheets.
The arm was completely naked and was all the more beautiful and better turning likely to be in the genre.
But the hand that was at the end of this arm did not correspond its beauty.
It was a hand where this idleness had failed to erase the traces of past work, small hand, but deformed fingers and aporretados solid, hand elevated commoner suddenly the patricians.
Although the banker did not move, the fixity and eagerness in his eyes fixed upon the young exercised on it the usual magnetic influence.
After a few minutes changed his position, sighed heavily and opened his eyes, which were black as ink.
Fijáronse an instant vague expression of amazement at Duke, and closing them again, muttered an exclamation of road, while sinking his face into the pillow.
At the same time held out his hand.
The Duke shook, and rising from his chair gave a loud kiss on the cheek, saying: - If you want to let you sleep longer.
I have not been more than a kiss.
But there was one, but a good portion of it being implemented on both cheeks.
The young frowned in disgust of those caresses, which come from an old should not to be accepted of him.
I sobes more.
I took upon me a bottle of white rose and yet twelve o'clock night I smelled bad. - The smell of snuff.
No: I like the smell of snuff.
This output brutal aroused no indignation of the Duke and was to be expected.
Laughed and gave an affectionate pat on the cheek. - I do not come cheap kisses me.
Nor is cynical altered replica of the beautiful, that in the same tone in a bad mood said: - You bet.
And the older you are, you will emerge more expensive ....
The duke took the clip. - Do not bring more than tobacco. - Do not want that ....
There, on that thing to write, must have.
The banker took over a small desk inlaid some cigars and presented.
The girl developed one with the skill of an accomplished smoker and lit the match that Duke was quick to serve.
It tried again bring his lips to the beautiful nasty face of the smoker, but was repulsed with violence. - Mira, or you're standing still or go! - She said with energy -.
And he pointed to the armchair next to the bed.
The banker dropped into it, looking at the girl with big bulging eyes, expressing fear. - You are an increasingly surly cat.
You abuse my love, or rather, my craziness.
He had, indeed, one of the most wanton tempers could be found.
Life had been, in the pretext of women, burning, greedy.
Instead of correcting the years, this hobby was growing up to a nasty habit.
It was noticeable in Madrid.
It was known that to meet it, after he had come to wealth, he had a thousand strange vagaries paid with huge volumes.
He had known and loved by strangers remote countries, them a Circassian and one black.
This passion was really the gate through which he escaped money like a river.
But at the same time was the only one who did not hurt to spend.
The trappings of home caused him pain, a tingling sharp: he kept for calculation and bravado, but he weighed in the soul, but apparently something else
