Of course, sooner or later, will to do: with no progress Conventions anything.
What for? " And what is democracy?
To print your father would be a disaster. * * * * * The next afternoon went to the home a very respectable-looking gentleman, asking by Tirso.
Leocadia accompanied him to the kitchen and told her brother, but he barely heard the name of the newcomer, he was carried to his room and remained locked up with long time him.
The visit was long, and fired Tirso unknown with a great show of respect.
Since that interview, the priest went out almost every night, but said or where ever he went.
XIV Often both at that time the priests who escaped from their parishes, then appeared as leaders in the field or were caught in the cities serving as assistants and messengers near the fractious party together, that there was nothing absurd suspicion Millán: justificábala also Tirso's commitment to remain silent for the purpose of your trip.
The probability that in the present when you least expect it police in the house looking for his brother, Pepe scared, fearful of the impression that such release could cause in the mind of poor old man.
Regarding to give room for disappointment Tirso otherwise, for the proposed conversion of the family or take campaign to raise their religious fervor, nothing suspicious: was once feared, according to the character that the priest showed, some feature of intolerance, excessive heat or harsh sentence to disturb the tranquility of home, because false circumspection watched Tirso hearing news of the war comment resembled the sly.
From the day of the dispute that thief called Mendizabal, turned a blind eye with respect to religious indifference that surrounded him, but clearly felt that it was not all prudence, but lack of courage.
Pepe, anxious not to fuel the irritability of his brother, abstained wicked jokes and mocking phrases, but sometimes he came to his lips, hearing deploy more naively rooted superstition so that both began to pretend certain restraint, despite that Pepe knew that the situation was not for long and the slightest thing to Tirso provide an opportunity to show their anger would be enough to trigger a storm.
For its part, the priest was convinced that he had come to be among parents and siblings as tree suddenly transplanted to other land of his birth.
Difficult was that he could take root there or live in peace with their own.
If they were lukewarm in their devotion or just slow to meet the religious practices still have choice, but it was not people whose heart had cushioned the faith, but of individuals who, judging by what Tirso seen, not felt before.
The father had no beliefs, perhaps a result of sympathy progressive party that lied always respect for religion, not hide unwillingness of the clergy Leocadia and doña Manuela women were misdirected, or rather, neglected.
As for Pepe, their unbelief, their absence of all divine and sacred were more serious, because the fruit, not forgetting the holy truths, but a deep contempt for them: he pushed the disbelief currents of the time, studies modern courtly atmosphere and a definite predisposition.
In this he was right Tirso: parents and sister gave their comments as they really were: indifferent Pepe, as an unrepentant confident with whom the struggle had to be more laborious, because the fight was inevitable.
He did not come home with the intention to provoke, but neither seemed unreasonable under his ministry to look into that state of deep calm disturbance made him break out in a moment of anger, "you seem to Jews." His enthusiasm was sincere religious: conscience told him that if the hazards of life he had placed next to strangers, empecatadas as their parents and siblings, would have dogged efforts to convert them, and that bad could look coldly destruction of his own vineyard.
This saint became a spouse, another to his father, one to his brother: he was dealing with his family, which never before thought, which lived paragraph voluntarily, but suddenly it seemed scattered flock to the edge of a deep, and which was to be guided to pick in the fold of the Church blessed.
Brought him to cut the company to serve higher, because it is the entire nation and not a few individuals, but since God put the sore at your hands and the wound was as in the same body just was to heal her.
It began to worsen in the parent's illness, it took higher expenses came sad day for the family and Dona Manuela greatly dismayed, for all of which determined Tirso start fulfilling its purpose, imagining that in the midst of trouble is when most easily overwhelm our hearts.
His mother and sister were the first who attract thought.
Not reach more sagacity, and even this will greatly disgusted, as all delay seemed to her complicity in evil and all pretense seemed unworthy of the noble straightened so that the will.
It was fiery, Arriscado, but guessing at his brother a terrible opponent, he realized that the circumstances put obstacles to his zeal.
Would have preferred to fight face to face obstacles, suddenly gather family and convince them of their error; but did not venture much and, against his will, as there could be violent, it was clever: dreamed of playing the role of apostle is combative, and had to be limited to acting as a Jesuit novel, but in good faith, with a clear intention, make sure the mood in a company honest.
Determined to eradicate the wickedness which had dominion over his home, he would not delay it, and one morning, and finds that Dona Manuela was unfolding the shawl to go shopping some medications, anticipated it and waited in a corner next: then he followed Imperial down the street, and when he would enter a drug store in the Toledo, called closely: - Mother, Mother! - Son, how are you doing here? - I want to talk with you Do you have to wait in the pharmacy? - A little bit. - Well, let us first by drugs, then we will wait together, and I'll tell you what I want.
Tirso severe spoke with an accent, his mother heard him with a curiosity mixed with fear. - But man, what is it?
The vehemence of Tirso became exacerbated therefore the poor old woman could not help but say, almost angrily: - Son, no slapping, people see us!
I have not.
