In the rusty key crude had settled her white hand.
But his arm is extended again, and the door groaned on its hinges.
There, in the chapel he saw before him, kneeling, head bowed, hands together, turned toward the altar, covered with a dress the color of fire ...
And amid their cries distinctly heard the voice would say, "Sorry ..." The next day I called the judge.
It was the first time was before the judge from the day he, after triumphing over their arguments, he had said he believed suicide.
The young man was extreme confusion, not knowing what they could want from him yet. - I needed first and foremost - Ferpierre said - to acknowledge my error and tell you he was right.
It was providential that you insisted on the prosecution, in spite of the evidence, because without the insistence of you without the confidence that saw him animated, I would probably Hand made further investigations which have led me to discover the truth.
No doubt this time you already know what happened, but I wanted to personally confirm that your friend has been murdered.
The Natzichet has confessed his crime, and Principe, was silent in the hope to save her, has confirmed his confession.
Roberto candle plant remained silent and confused. - Are you happy now?
The young man replied. - Have you provided a service to justice.
Without you, the murder would have gone unpunished, or worse, an innocent man would have paid the fault of others.
There was a guilty and instinct I noticed that you do not deceive: the only difference is that the charges you against the Prince have proved unfounded.
Ferpierre again paused a moment to give candle plant time to say something, and then as he continued silent, he continued: - Prince could not desire the death of the Countess when he came to love with a passionate love and shy at once, compelling, a rebel like him to abandon his revolutionary propaganda, to renounce their past, their political faith, their accomplices.
Then he saw his partner lost, not only for the match but even for herself, because she loved him and suffered at the thought that there was another, to be confident that love is risen.
It was in search of the rival, to let him enforce it, and they had she ended a stormy explanation to the crime.
There was a pause of the judge, which opposed candle plant still silent. - Are you happy? - Asked the judge. - Why do you ask?
And the two men stared. - Should you be happy, I think, had avenged his friend's memory, confusing the inmate and obtaining the triumph of truth and justice.
In the judge's question had been a sort of incitement, almost a provocation to say entirely his secret thoughts, as if their secret thought was the same judge. - I have no passion to meet - he answered .-- One Love guides me: the love of justice ... - If you have done justice ... - Do you doubt? - I do not doubt ...
A fool can declare an offender, but can not give reasons for its action, or explain your circumstances.
I say the murderer is he who can not be other than him ...
Yes, candle plant had to say that.
The silent voice of forgiveness, that voice had never spoken.
Is not it natural that this man is full of joy? - That idea is horrible!
Upon hearing that question, the judge thought for a moment before answering.
When the nihilistic confessed, he had given immediate credit to his confession; but doubt was beginning to assault him again.
If the girl was sacrificed, what value should agree to his confession and confirmation of it by Prince? ...
However, he had again questioned one and another, separately and together, and both had remained firm in their statements.
In the confrontation they had found some contradictions: while assuring Natzichet that at the height of his explanation with the countess, hearing the voice of Prince troubled I called, had fired the shot, afraid to show him and he had not been submitted another opportunity to get rid of his rival, Prince said, however, have gone when he heard the shooting from afar.
Again placed facing each other, had Natzichet corrected, stating that he thought he heard her voice, but certainly in his excitement he was mistaken.
Other small details Ferpierre had affirmed the suspicion that, as in previous interrogation, in that the girl also somewhat took the initiative of the explanation the drama, and urged the Prince to follow, but, nevertheless, was determined to send to judges to the public debate had just shed light on the mystery.
So also thought Ferpierre.
One man, who suddenly happened several drives, which was not totally incapable of doing good, but that was due more advances rapidly to evil, had been, without doubt, next to confess, but the available had changed his mind at any moment, and then yearns for freedom, had no qualms about holding on to the raft. - If he is so outrageous, does it mean that the hero has a heart Natzichet? - What prevents you admit it?
Far from denying it, the judge had expressly recognized by the ardor of their faith, the tenacity of her feelings, she was capable of heroism. - But how to surprise?
He had two reasons for commit: love and fanaticism. - Does one and one should not advise that could save the man she loved and the fellow?
Ferpierre not answer.
I was astonished at not having done so obvious observation that among many others.
The crime is the work of the nihilist, if not committed by Zakunine, if the nihilist is innocent, is Zakunine the offender!
And almost abruptly, he said he could retire.
The gravity of his thoughts at that time and the annoyance felt against himself, not allowed to deal with another matter.
The observation he had made candle plant was very just: How to deny its value?
If so many questions had conceived and himself on the confession of Natzichet, why not admit it?
Certainly, without the artifice he had employed with the nihilistic, the Prince and she would continued to deny, hide behind the likelihood of suicide.
It was also clear that of the two, the most careful of salvation had been common since the early days, Natzichet.
In all interviews had struggled visibly to push Prince to defense.
There were acknowledged to be his mistress and he was required to confirm this statement, eager to prevent the discovery of the resurrection of his love for the Countess, resurrection could be suspected that the cause of the crime were jealousy.
Whatever it was, the Prince had shown during the first days perhaps in so much pain force, indifferent to their fate.
All this made Ferpierre think they really had made a mistake when using your scheme against the young man should have said rather that the Natzichet Prince pleaded guilty.
If this was the real truth, how do you know?
Determined to take advantage of the generosity of the young Zakunine recognized her guilty, and since she insisted in his confession, how belie?
But now I see I thought this lie is true, and yourself, without meaning, or rather, wanting the opposite, I have tried it.
If there been lying, you would have laughed to hear it.
Each of these conclusions repugnant to the magistrate, but it needed to be decided by some, and thought to make one last attempt about two Russians, when, despite had given orders, he heard knocking on the door.
The usher, apologizing for the offense, gave a statement of the attorney general, two underlined words in a corner of the envelope indicated that communication was urgent.
Ferpierre idly broke the envelope, because nothing seemed urgent if not leave a situation as ambiguous.
Inside were two roles: a telegram and a note from the attorney general.
This he wrote: "I transmit to you immediately at the office that just received from the Swiss Consul in Edinburgh.
Now we finally know precisely something about the mystery of Ouchy. " And hand that shook anxiety, Ferpierre opened another sheet, which read: "Sister Anne lives in Stonehaven Brighton, County of Kincardine, Scotland.
Already been agreed as necessary with the British judiciary to get a statement. " And public curiosity had been aroused, the more anxious than ever, knowing that the instruction was not closed yet as stated first, that the judge mistrusted confession Alejandra Natzichet, and that everything was to be bound by new doubts in the moment the mystery seemed to open.
The discussions raged, passionate and useless, among those who believed the sincerity of the nihilists, those who saw in his conduct a new test Prince of guilt and with greater confidence returning to the suicide, inquisitorial methods accusing the magistrate of an innocent confession extracted.
But others recognized that justice was in the presence of one of those cases doubtful whose solution must not despair until some unforeseen circumstance comes clarify them, and that most often remain unresolved forever.
The news that had finally found Ana, took a curious anticipation to the extent of fever.
His statement, the last letter addressed to him by the Countess, a few hours before his death, he would explain everything.
It was not general, however, this trust, and the same Ferpierre, after the first move of amazement and pleasure to receive communication of the telegram, he feared not even get out of doubt.
If the dead had confessed that he would kill himself, if he sent his sister last goodbye, this, on receiving the letter, to read that ad, would not come due, or at least answer, or seek other news, you know if Florence had put running their fatal purpose?
And since all the world's newspapers had talked the catastrophe, for the prosecution, arrests and summary, was not for religious a duty of conscience to send the letter to Justice?
This all had received, therefore The letter did not announce the suicide.
Nature was thus seen as uniquely worsened the condition of the accused.
In this case, the ambiguity would survive.
A top story, given by the British newspapers that announced the discovery of the whereabouts Sister Ana Brighton, destroyed the judge's questions.
The nun, said those sheets was attack of severe paralysis, had lost the use of body and speech.
A telegram from London to the Journal de Geneve said the next day, the disease dating a month, and that the stroke, according to the statement of the premium of Sister Anne his only relative, had occurred when reading a dismal news.
And when a week later, he Ferpierre with confirmation of these rumors the record formed by the Scottish judge, was that once again he was wrong in their forecasts.
Sister Anne was not able to answer the Condesa or enlighten justice because reading the letter from his former favorite pupil had fallen as dead.
This letter, found by his side and attached to the report along with others that did not matter, said: "Sister Anne, you pray for me.
Pray you very much, with all the fervor of his good soul, because I have need of much forgiveness. "This is my last letter you receive.
If one day you know what I did, remember you name ever since the first time I enjoyed his touch wanted me: remember you called me his daughter and as such has loved me, for you will always be his daughter indulgent. "God reads in my heart.
Think only this, that I have sinned, I want to run away from other faults.
I am Guests to a condition such that everything is my fault and error
