There was no man more sweet, more harmless in its treatment.
Never heard him speak ill of anyone.
A defect Moro was the son of his own fans.
It was considered unbeatable in all games to was involved.
You could not deny great skill in them, but here is not to be rival far away, and Moro's saved.
From this came the neat, timeless comments every game that season, and had already become proverbial in Lancia.
The balls are not rolling as proposed.
Put his hand to his head desperately. - A little less of a ball, and mine had gone through the forms! ...
Saved his professional honors, money was not important.
For as much going on in the triplet, but, contrary to what usually happen in this game, it refrained from reprimanding his companions and show anger.
Spoke yes, much, but always to clarify or comment upon any play, repeating infinitely concepts in eloquent and persuasive tone, that made her smile to the onlookers. "If I had not King missed ...
If I had a triunfito more ...
I dared not give me the ball because figured D.
In two cases has always thrown around this cure. "It was a noisy fellow, but very thin and very unselfish. - Listen uzté, is not going to play uzté? - Valero said, poking his head out between the players and by examining the letters. - Do you think you can? - Moro asked hesitantly. - I think that zi. - There is little of this and too much of this one - said, quietly pointing the finger at the cards. - But Zin, zin embargo ...
I think ... - Well, well, play - Moro replied with his usual finesse.
That game was lost.
Moro glanced at his teammates and shrugged his shoulders in resignation.
As Valero moved away a bit, he hastened to say in a low - I did not want to antagonize D.
Enrique, but that game was unwinnable.
With these words vindicated his reputation, he was so happy as if he had given a ball.
The Count de Onis, who initially had shown roistering, was being gradually thoughtful and Amurrio.
Played without any attention, so that his colleagues called him to order more than once. - But, Earl, what is it about you today?
I see very worried - he finally D.
Pedro. - Indeed, ze mu noz has puezto uzté triztón - Valero confirmed.
Seeing so sharply questioned, he was troubled as if he feared that the hull of your brain be transparent and laws within. - There is nothing special ...
I'm pretty upset wheels - said, appealing a pure and innocent appeal. - Poor disease and, mate - said Valero.
And everybody pitied her and reported using the special interest of the ailment.
The count looked vaguely embarrassed and answered questions. - As against this evil, Count - Saleta said - there is no better medicine than iron.
I have suffered greatly from the teeth as a student.
I dared not make any; but the landlady who was in Santiago convinced me that tying a string to the wheel and by holding the other end to the ceiling, was slowly coming out without pain.
and when the wheel was well tied, the hostess pulls the chair and leaves me hanging.
Valero began to shake his head in a desperate.
Saleta does not notice, or pretends not to notice, and continues with the word firm and quiet and the accent Galician characterized him: - Then I lost all fear.
In La Coruna took me a dentist five in a row.
As Allariz judge, I had a sharp pain, and as there was no dentist, I got three with promoter a hair curling his wife.
As a result of that I attacked a terrible inflammation in the mouth, you know?
I went to Madrid, and Ludovisi, Queen's dentist, burned my gums with a hot iron and took me seven good ... - Van fifteen - Valero murmured. - And I was well, until four years ago in a village in the province Burgos, being seasonal home of a friend turned me pain, what pain!
But there was incidentally a charlatan who drew the wheels mounted on horseback.
I was so embarrassed, I had no choice but to appeal to him, I took two with the tail of a spoon. - Buddy, do Rozario! - Valero said at the height of the outrage .-- Le quea to uzté still a novena in her mouth?
In the uproar that ensued awoke Manin, barbarously desperezose opened a loudmouth half a yard, letting out a tremendous howl, which impressed the audience.
Then again the cyclopean torso sideways and prepared to join the dream. - What you do not have teeth never hurt, eh, Manin? - Asked the Grandee, who could not be a quarter of an hour without communicating with her butler. - Who! - Said the laborer without even opening his eyes. - It's a rock! - Said the gentleman with real enthusiasm.
But Manin sat up a little in his chair and said, rubbing his eyes with his fists: - I never had more than a pain in the shoulder.
He gave me a car carrying grass and took me more than a month.
Seemed to have one in there that I was gnawing Gafur the rennet.
It broke my ribs, I sank the sides, pulled me to the walls, was bucking and grinning teeth as a basilisk.
One day I told the priest: - Manin, you lack the chest .-- I have no breast, Father!
He ordered me to remove my shirt and lay back on the masera.
Then begins to give me some golpecicos in the chest with his fist, as he calls the door.
Stuck here, hit there, and that ascucharás ascucha with his ear pressed against the flesh.
More than a half hour calling knuckles and ascuchando.
Until they finally got tired of not hearing it Emporte ...--¡ na Oh soul mate! - crossing himself told me - you have a chest liquid!
Upon arriving here he stopped suddenly, and walking a grim look on the audience, mumbled without being overheard: - What will laugh at these jackasses?
And dropping his head again populated with matted hair on his chair, closed his eyes sovereign contempt.
The gatherings at the Grandee turned their attention to play, still laughing.
But Count pensive and was soon distracted again.
After all, unable to suppress unrest of his nerves, he rose from his chair. - Come, D.
Enrique, you fill my position.
The pain bothers me a lot and need to move.
II The finding.
When the count fell again standing in the room, just the chickens were ready to dance a quadrille.
One of the girls was already retired before the piano.
Christopher Matthew who was called in this way in the village, was a former employee who had served many years in the Philippines, and was retired and did some thirty thousand.
However, in all Spanish dominions there was no civil man.
He had made his career in the finance office, and had professed lifelong disagreeing the predominance of the military.
Always said that the leeches were not state them employees, but the army and navy.
He said that the war budget 'Was released by bleeding which escaped the forces of the nation, "frasecilla that I had read in the Bulletin of indirect contributions, and had taken up with extreme fruition.
In exchange for the benefits that could accrue from the regiment's stay, Damages were so many!
The market is more expensive: the chiefs and officers liked to be well and take home more expensive foods (for work that cost them win!).
Then they were all gamblers and rub off their bad example to the youth of the population, outside the fair periods, abstained from the forbidden games.
As they were always idle (D.
Christopher firmly believed that a soldier has absolutely nothing to do), force had to think of pranks and tricks she practices.
In summary, the regiment would cause disruption in the village and a corrupting element.
Desire prevailed, but not be him, but because the minister of war will not send troops to plug Lancia, perhaps considering gentle condition of its inhabitants.
With thirty thousand pieces of pension people live freely on a cheap as one, if it was not their daughters were endowed with a certain poetic fantasy which lead to Madrid prefer hats to those who did Rita, the hat of the street of San Joaquin and eight-button gloves for four.
Such exceptional temperament was due to frequently crisis in the home of retired, with their train of tears, violent slamming doors, sudden loss of appetite, etc.
In these terrible conflicts, we must admit that D.
Christopher no always kept at the level of energy and courage that denoted his mustache and bushy eyebrows.
About half an hour were secret deliberations.
Apart from these periodic shocks to the wisdom of nature invigorated nerves a bit unnerved and the retired, the existence of this peaceful and smooth gliding
