The bird, quickly jumping on the latter, snatched from the hands cord, and went out again flying out of that room.
Everything was so instantaneous that Princess barely had time to see the bird, but its audacity and her beauty caused the strangest impression.
They were all in the gardens and watched spellbound.
The Princess gave a cry and fell faint.
Came the suitors and her father.
She regained consciousness, and the first thing he said was :--«¡ That green bird looking at me ...
I bring you alive ...
not kill you ...
In vain, though instructed by the Princess of not thought to kill the green bird, were released against the falcon, sacrum, bigwigs and even eagles, tamed and trained in falconry.
The unfulfilled desire of possessing the Princess and tormented increased his bad mood.
That could not sleep at night.
Just came on the day, rose from the bed, and lifting light clothes, without corset and crinoline, most beautiful and interesting in that negligee, pale and haggard, he went with her maid, favorite leafy forest as it was back to the palace, where stood the tomb of his mother.
There he began to mourn and lament his fate .-- What I serve said, all my riches, if contempt all the princes of the world, if not love; what my kingdom, if not I have you, mother, and do all my beauties and gems, if not I have a beautiful green bird?
With this, as to console something, unlink the cord of her dress and pulled out the chest a rich locket, where he kept a lock of his mother, who got to kiss.
But hardly started to kiss, when he went faster than ever green bird, with its ebony beak touched the Princess lips, and snatched the locket, which had lain for so many years against his heart, and so hidden and instead had been desired.
The robber then disappeared, flew out and got lost in the clouds.
This time the Princess did not faint, but rather stood very red and said to the maid: - Look at me look me in the lips, the insolent bird has injured me, because I burn.
The maiden looked at them and did not notice any bite, but surely the bird had some poison in them, because the traitor did not reappear on, and Princess was worse for degrees, falling sick very dangerous.
A singular fever ate, and talked casino but to say: - Do not kill him ...
The physicians agree that the only medicine to cure the princess, was to bring green bird alive.
The Fortunate King convened a major conference of scholars to find out, on pain of incurring in their righteous indignation, who and where he lived the green bird, whose memory haunted her daughter.
Forty days and forty nights meeting were as wise, without ceasing to meditate and discourse but to get some sleep and eat.
Spoke very learned and eloquent speeches, but nothing found out .-- Sir, said after all the King, bowing humbly to feet and injuring the powder with the respectable fronts, we're two fools, do we hang; our science is a lie not know who is the green bird, and only we dare to perhaps be suspected if the phoenix of Arabia. - Arise, said the king with remarkable generosity, I forgive you and thank you for the indication about the phoenix.
Will promptly seven of you with rich presents for the queen of Sheba, and all the resources that I can have live birds to hunt.
The Phoenix must have a nest in the country knows, and then you bring it to me, if you do not want my royal anger you punish but to prevent it tratéis escondiéndoos in the bowels of the earth
