And with the terrible majesty of the Latin father, absolute master of his children more likely to instill fear to inspire affection, began to walk followed by the trembling Rosetta, which, when approaching to his cabin, believed to march to a safe hiding.
The poor father had no more children at that time in the world that their harvest diseased wheat, wrinkled, thirsty, calling him screaming for a drink to stay alive.
Rosetta went from side to side pretending occupations to avoid attention, expecting at any moment the outbreak of cholera paternal.
And Batiste was thinking in his field, sitting at the bedside dwarf, surrounded by his family often, than to light the lamp looked greedily a steaming pot cod with potatoes.
The woman sighed still thinking about the fine, and certainly provided comparisons fabulous amount they were going to tear and the relief with which he moved his entire family jaws.
Batiste just ate, occupied in contemplating the voracity of their own.
Batistet, the eldest son to be seized with feigned distraction of small crumbs.
A Rosetta, fear gave him a ferocious appetite.
Never Batiste then realized the burden on their backs.
Those mouths that opened to swallow up the meager savings of the family would be without food if came out to dry.
Should not pass through it.
The image of the ditch at a short distance caudal dragging its whispering to others was for him a martyr.
Enfurecíale life pass her door without being able to take advantage, because they wanted the laws.
The woman was frightened, realizing all the danger instantly so desperate resolution. "By God, Batiste! ...
Would impose a higher fine, perhaps the court, offended by default, to take from the water forever.
It was better to wait. " But Batiste had strong anger and phlegmatic phlegmatic men that when they lose calm take long to recover. - A water!
Everyone wanted to take part in this study, which looked like a party.
The family felt the joy of a people to rebellion gains his freedom.
The vast plain lost in blue gloom cañares waving, as rumors and dark masses, and the stars twinkled in black space.
Batiste went into the ditch to the knees, placing the barrier that had to stop water, while his son, his wife and even his daughter attacked with spades the bank, opening gaps where irrigation came in spurts.
The whole family felt a sense of freshness and wellbeing.
The earth sang with a sweet joy glu-glu which reached the heart to all of them. "Baby, baby, poor thing!" And his feet sinking in the mud, Bent going side to side the field to see if the water was everywhere.
Batiste roared with cruel satisfaction that produces the joy of the forbidden.
And as his fine ear of a man accustomed to solitude thought he heard a disturbing rumor in neighboring cañares, ran to the cabin, to return immediately clutching his shotgun new.
With the gun on the arm and finger on the trigger, was more than an hour beside the barrier of the canal.
The water did not go forward, poured in the fields of Batiste, who drank and drank the thirst of dropsy.
Perhaps complained below, perhaps Pimento, warned as "atandador" haunted by Nearby, outraged by the insolent attack upon the law.
But there was Batiste as a sentinel of his crop, desperate hero of the struggle for life, keeping his men, who were moving about extending the irrigation field, ready to drop a shotgun at first tried to take the course by restoring barrier water law.
His attitude was so fierce standing upright in the middle of the canal, could be glimpsed in this black ghost to receive such resolution shots that show, nobody left the cañares immediate and drank their fields for an hour without any protest.
And what's more strange: the following Thursday, the "atandador" did not appear before the Tribunal de las Aguas.
The garden had learned that in the former barracks of Barrett the only valuable was a double-barreled shotgun, purchased recently by the intruder with passion African of Valencia, who are deprived of bread glad to have behind the door of your house a new weapon that will excite and inspire envy respect.
V Every day at dawn, jumped out of bed Rosetta, daughter of Batiste, and eye sleep-swollen, extending the arms with gentle stretches that shook all slender blond body, he opened the door of the hut.
Screamed the pulley of the well, barking jumping for joy with her skirts the ugly tyke who spent the night outside the barracks, and Rosetta, by the light of the latest stars, cast face and hands for a bucket of cold water taken out of that hole round and dark, crowned on top by thick tufts of ivy.
Then, to light the candle, paced the cabin preparing for the journey to Valencia.
Her mother still did not see it from the bed to make all sorts of directions.
Could be the leftovers from dinner with this and three sardines would find in the Vasari had enough.
In the drawer of the table find the money.
And while the mother went for a walk on the bed, gently caressed by the warmth of the students, proposing to sleep half an hour along with big Batiste, who was snoring loudly, Rosetta followed their progress.
It was daylight.
Under the steely light of dawn could be seen in the paths and roads laborious parade going in one direction, attracted by the life of the city.
Graceful groups spent spinners with equal step, gracefully moving arm right, cutting the air like an oar, and screaming all in chorus each time a tall boy hailed from the neighboring fields with loving words.
The poor knew they were her friends, daughters and sisters of the enemies of his family.
Several of them worked in his factory, and the poor blonde, more than once, making gut heart, he had to defend to scrape clean.
Taking advantage of their carelessness, showed infect things in their food basket, break the pot had done several times and not passed along to it in the workshop but would stop pushing for the smoking pot where the bud was drowned, and devote wolverine calling other similar praise to his family.
On the way all of them fled as a troop of furies, and only felt calm to be within the factory, an old mansion near the market, whose facade, painted al fresco in the eighteenth century, still preserved among certain groups chipping and cracking Pink legs and faces in profile bed, remnants of medallions and mythological paintings.
Rosetta gives the whole family was the closest to his father: "a beast for the job" as Batiste told himself.
The steam burning of pots where the cocoon subíasele drowning at the head, scald the eyes, but in spite of this, remained firmly in place, looking at the bottom of the boiling water up the loose ends of those flabby tissue capsules of a light caramel color, into which death had scorched the worm laborious baba precious larvae for the crime of making a rich dungeon for processing butterfly.
A reigned in the big house deafening roar and tiring work for the daughters of orchard, accustomed to the calm of the vast plain, where the voice is transmitted to huge distances.
Roared down the steam, giving snorting appalling that were transmitted by multiple pipes, rolling pulleys and winches with a cacophony of a thousand devils, and if not sufficed much noise, the spinners, as traditional custom, singing along with a nasal voice Our Father, Hail Mary and the Gloria Patri, with the same tune of the named Rosario of Aurora, procession parades through the paths of the garden on Sunday at dawn.
This devotion did not prevent it riesen singing, and so on, between prayer and prayer, bespoken to be insulted and four scratches to the output, because these girls brunette, enslaved by the rigid tyranny that reigns in the family and forced laborers of concern for inheritance to be always before men with downcast eyes, there were real demons to be together and without restraint, indulging their tongues drop everything heard on the roads roads and farmers.
To not be distracted at work, he refrained from singing and never caused strife.
Had such an easy to learn all that he earned a few weeks three reals a day, almost the maximum of wages, with great envy of the others.
While girls disheveled bands came from the factory to lunchtime to swallow the contents of their pots in the immediate content, harassing men with eyes insolent to say something and scream them after falsely outraged by undertaking with them a shameless shooting, Rosetta stayed in a corner of the shop sitting on the floor, with two or three young men who were of another garden, on the right bank of the river and damned if they were interested in the history of Barret and hatred of their peers.
In the first weeks, with some terror Rosetta saw the arrival of dusk, and with it the departure time ...
Fearing companions who followed the same road, entertained at the factory some time leaving them out in front like a whirlwind, which departed outrageous laughter, fluttering skirts, daring and smell dicharachos health of members harsh and hard.
Lazily walked through the streets of the city during the cold winter sunsets, shopping the orders of his mother, stopping captivated by the shop windows began to glow, and finally, crossing the bridge, got into the dark alleys of the slums to exit Alboraya the road.
But after dark fell in the garden, with its mysterious noises, their black bodies and alarming passing greeting her with a "Bona nit!" gloomy, and began for her fear and chattering teeth.
As a good daughter of the field, was used to them.
The certainty that they would find one on the road would have given confidence.
In his terror, never thought, as her companions in death, or witches and ghosts.
The were worried that the living.
He recalled with horror stories of the garden some hearing in the factory: the fear of girls Pimento and other jaques to those who gathered at the home of FIFA: thugs who take advantage of darkness, pushing the girls alone at the bottom of the shower dry or made them falling behind the barns.
And Rosetta, which was no longer innocent after its entry into the factory, let your imagination run wild to the limits of what horrible, seeing killed by one of these monsters, his belly sliced ??open and the inside as well as children they were talking about the legends of the garden, to which a mysterious executioner drew the shortenings, preparing miracle drug for the rich.
In the twilight of winter, dark and often wet, shivering saved Rosetta more than halfway.
This piece of road was the busiest and well lit.
Rumor vocals, bursts of laughter, guitar playing and songs to his lungs out through that door red like a furnace mouth, which showed the way black a light box cut by agitation of grotesque shadows.
And yet, the poor weaver, to get near there, indecisive he stopped trembling, as the heroines of the tales to the ogre's cave, ready to get across the fields to be turned on and behind the building to sink into the ditch bordering the road and crouched by slipping between the slopes, to anything but to pass the red face to face bouncing the din of drunkenness and brutality.
An effort of will, as he is about to plunge from a height, and along the edge of the ditch, with very light and balanced way that gives the portentous fear, going fast at the tavern.
Not calmed until you hear the dog barking in his hut, that ugly animal that by antithesis doubtless was called Lucifer, and who received it in the middle of the road with capers, licking their hands.
The poor girl composing the gesture as he entered the cabin, and to the questions of his mother, anxious, answered by casting of courageous and said they come with some mates.
I did not want his father had to go out at night on the road to accompany it.
Knew hatred of the neighborhood, the tavern Cup with quarrelsome people inspired him scared.
And the next day returned to the factory, to suffer the same fears to return, animated only hope that soon would come the spring, with its long afternoons the twilight light, that would return to the barracks before darkening.
One night Rosetta experienced some relief.
Near the city yet, went on the road a man he began to march in step with her. - Bona nit!
And while the spinner was on the high bank that bordered the road, the man walked by Basically, in the deep furrows by the wheels of cars, stumbling blocks broken, chipped pots and even glassware with which sighted hands wanted Remote blind bumps in origin.
He had no other relatives in the world that his grandfather worked up Sundays, and so was going to Valencia to collect manure for the fields of his master, as helped him in the killing of cattle and tilled the ground or carried to the farms rich meat.
Malcolm everything to change him and his grandfather and go there in his ragged, old clothes of his master.
He did not smoke, had entered two or three times in his life at home in the Cup, and Sunday, if he some free time, instead of standing in the square Alboraya squatted as others, seeing the boys so to play the ball, found himself on the field, wandering aimlessly through the tangled web of paths, and if he found a tree full of birds, there gawk by the flutter and the shrieks of those bohemians of the garden.
People saw in him something of the extravagance of his grandfather mysterious pastor, and everyone regarded as an unhappy, shy and docile.
The spinner was encouraged with his company.
It was safer to leave it next to a man and more if it was Tonet, who inspired confidence.
He spoke, asking where he came from, and the young man knew only vaguely with his usual answer shyness, "D'there ...
d'there ... "then paused, as if those words cost him great effort.
Followed the path in silence, parting near the hut. - Bona nit and greasy! - Said the girl. - Bona nit! - And disappeared Tonet marching toward the village.
For it was a minor incident, a pleasant meeting, he had removed fear no more.
And yet, Rosetta had dinner that night and went to bed thinking of the grandson Tomba uncle.
I remembered the times she had met in the morning on the way, and even seemed Tonet tried to always march in step with her, but something separate to avoid drawing the attention of the stinging spinners ....
On occasion, the head sharply back, believed to have been surprised with his eyes fixed on her ...
And the girl, as if spinning a cocoon, grab these loose ends of his memory and pulled and pulled, remembering all of his life that was related to Tonet, the first Once they saw it, and compassionate sympathy for the fun of the spinners, he bore downcast and shy, as if these harpies in band will inspire fear, then frequent encounters on the road and the stares of the boy, who seemed to want to tell her something.
To go to Valencia in the morning, saw him no, but at night, to start back to his cabin, he felt no fear, in spite of the twilight was dark and rainy.
Sensed the appearance of reassuring companion, and actually met him at almost the same point the previous day.
It was as expressive as ever, "Bona nit!" And walked beside her.
And he, trembling, as if the words cost him great effort, he answered as usual: "D'there ...
d'there ....» The girl, who was actually as shy as he felt no desire to laugh but his embarrassment.
She spoke of her fear, the shocks during the winter went on the road; and Tonet, flattered by the service they provide to the young man finally opened his mouth to tell it often accompany her.
They said goodbye to the brevity of the previous day, but that night the girl stirred in bed, restless, nervous, dreaming thousand foolish, seeing themselves in a way black, very black, accompanied by a huge dog licked her hand and had the same face Tonet.
After out a wolf to bite, with a nose vaguely reminiscent of the hated Pimento, and fought the two animals with his teeth, and left his father with a club, and she cried as if the back Soltan in the beatings he received his poor dog, and so was yacketayakking your imagination, but always seeing the scenes of his dream run over the grandson of Tomba, with blue eyes and her face covered with a girl, blond hair, which was first sign of manhood.
It is broken up, as if to come out of a delirium.
That day was Sunday and not go to factory.
The sun came through the little window of her bedroom and all the people of the cabin was and out of bed.
Rosetta began arranging to go to mass with her mother.
He felt another, with different thoughts, last night as if it were a wall that divided his life into two parts.
Happy as a bird sang, while he was removing clothes from the ark and placed it on his bed still warm with the traces of his body.
Much liked Sundays, with their freedom to get up later, their hours of idleness and his little trip to Alboraya to hear Mass, but that Sunday was better than the others, shone more sun, singing birds harder, went through the little window air that smelled to glory: how to say! ...
in short, that the morning was for her something new and extraordinary.
It had been taunted until then a female care for herself.
And like a new dress that I saw for the first time, Then he put over his head with great care, if it were subtle lace, the skirt of calico every Sunday.
Then squeezed much the corset, and if you do not oppress one frame still quite high shovels, a true corset styling, which cruelly crushed chest rising, as in the Valencian garden is immodesty than singles do not hide the seductive trappings of nature so that no sinfully can mean in the future virgin motherhood.
For the first time in his life was the spinner over a quarter of an hour before the middle span mercury glass and painted pine frame that gave him his father had a mirror in which to contemplate the face sections.
She was not much he recognized, but were uglier to dozens in the garden.
And without knowing why, he delighted watching his eyes light green, mottled cheeks of those freckles that the sun raises the skin toasted white blond hair, with flaccid fineness of silk, the little nose of sheltering a mouth quivering wings shaded the hair of a seasoned fruit, half opened and the teeth showed a strong and equal, whiteness of milk, which seemed to illuminate his face shine: a poor teeth.
His mother had to wait.
In vain the poor woman made haste, writhing impatiently the cabin, as spurred by the bell sounded in the distance.
Iban to lose mass.
While So calmly combing Rosetta, then undo your work soon satisfied it
