From the galley accelerated that made the trip ran to the palace of Onís and precautions to not impress too told the betrothal.
It was quickly dressed, put on your chest the band of Carlos III and all the crosses he had won.
In this way he was led to Street barreled window locks, and there stood up.
They soon leave Mass the faithful of twelve, the most popular of which were held on Sundays.
All they could see from afar that strange figure, the corpse dressed in full uniform.
And with a feeling of awe, respect and compassion, all marched in silence under the window, unable to separate her eyes.
For three consecutive Sundays Colonel had the strength to get up and back on the same site.
There was still half still time flaunting their badges with ecstatic eyes in a vacuum, without seeing or hearing the crowd who gathered in front of the palace and showed him held each other serious and painful excitement.
The fourth wanted to do the same, he joined with violence to you dress, but immediately fell back on the pillows to rise no more.
The count could not remember that scene, which had been deeply impressed in his brain, without tears crowded to her eyes.
He had inherited from the exquisite delicacy of feeling, a susceptibility that was becoming sick, no serenity, initiative, the unshakable firmness that enhanced the soul of Colonel Field.
The current Earl had an overly sensitive and gentle temperament, background, honesty and shame it was the moral heritage of the Country.
But these qualities are offset by one character weak, great, gloomy, which come to him, no doubt, from the family of his mother.
Ms María Gayoso, widow Countess de Onis, daughter of baron Oscos was an original being, exceptionally so original that bordered on the unbelievable.
In his entire family, from three or four generations to her at least, had noted something bizarre in some of its members played on the edge of insanity and other entered fully inside.
His grandfather atheist had been an inveterate supporter of Voltaire and the Encyclopedia that last minute had given to drunkenness, according to the town council was dragged by one day demons to hell.
Actually died of spontaneous combustion, which could to fuel like fable.
His father was a fool to whom her mother, a woman of unusual energy, had always enslaved to degradation.
