Cura is already in his room.
The priest had retired to her room.
Had to leave early in the morning and did not want disclosed.
Splendid night, a wintry night so serene, clean and bountiful clouds in stars, that seemed like part of me that after the young he confessed his love.
Sitting in an old chair that belonged to my grandfather, I thought Angelina.
Would not see more in the yard or in the corridors, and take care of the birds and plants.
Galanas, leafy, when spring comes, our beloved flowers, which we plant, of them and I expect Linilla wonderful loving fidelity tests, would look not for my love its fragrant blossoms, none of which adorn the black hair of girl.
Nocturnal insects whistled as hidden from the foliage, the datura, rocked by the wind, swung heavily satin bells, the "smell of night" had no flavor, and silent running water down the drain the basin.
Suddenly the wind kicked up, I shuddered cold, and closed my eyes.
I do not know how long I was so numb, overwhelmed with grief.
Pretend you're asleep, you're sick, you do not want to get up, what is best, but do not go! - Sit down here beside me in this chair .... - No, Rorra.
I take your picture, and I'll look at all hours, and read your letters until I know them by heart.
Be sure to write me, I pray, and love me, love me like I love you!
Think I've been very unhappy, I'm alone, almost alone in the world, because the holy old man, who has been to me a real father will live long, the day I miss ....
Before I knew it was my only love, and I said to myself: while I live my father alive, then ...
I want to be forever in your heart, I want to be at all times in your mind; everywhere you go.
The tears choked her.
He lay in my arms, and rested his head on mine.
After long silence made an effort, and tired, as if pressing on the chest, I said, handing an object from his pocket apron: - Take: a medal, I've been to the neck as a child, I put my mother and me I have taken to give it ....
Now, tell me goodbye, and sorry if my baby is cause for bitterness for you! ...
I pulled gently, and went step by step.
XXXVI Then turned to my favorite walks every morning and every evening, before and after going to the office of the lawyer.
Again walked the banks of the Stony, and got one hundred sometimes Brush Hill.
In all recorded river poplars Linilla initials, or a single letter, an "L", to remind me every step of the name of my beloved.
But my favorite place was the highest rock of the hill.
From there I discovered the summits elevations of the Sierra.
Behind one of them was the village of San Sebastian where he dwelt the poor girl.
I long hours I spent on that site, along with curious eyes the clouds or mists that were driven thither by the wind, and I loved to watch how they died out gradually, on the peaks of those mountains, the last light of the dying day.
At night I threw me to wander the streets of the city past or about to sit on San Antonio cemetery at the foot of a cypress tree near the place where Angelina said, when I asked if I would always love: - How today and tomorrow, even after death!
From there it dominates the southern valley, bordered by the mountains of the Sierra, which unfolded on the winter sky its unique constellations: Orion, the Can, and the ship whose masts flashed the magnificent Canopus.
But the dark nights were more beautiful to me.
My thoughts flying through the shadows in search of the humble parish house, I imagined I was there, in the modest living room near the priest, and Angelina side.
I attended the game of chess, and reading session.
The old man in his chair, Angelina to one side, near the table, in the lamplight with a book hands.
If even I could hear the voice of Argentina, flirtatious, suggestive, it sounded in my ears like the sound of a wind harp.
Some nights when the storm with lurid glare lit the tops of the mountains, I was pleased I admire the fires of the storm, the lightning that followed one another without ceasing with the din of a thousand thunders, repeated by the echoes, the greatness of that increased sky show, as if the entire race to cross the sky one hundred trains of war, outbreak of thousands and thousands of guns.
The storm moved away, the sky was clearing, the moon looked out, and clouds, by frightening black and white became celajes fringed feathers, lace, fringe of silvery; in sailing skiffs, in nacelles nacre, in beautiful swan neck erect and wings upright, who rowed in a gulf of clear water dotted with stars.
I did not expect.
The physician was in his office, leafing through tomes do not know what. - Oh, boy, you arrive on time.
Go wrong, son Dona Carmen is wrong, very wrong, the way that kid is going to cause an upset.
You know: joy, entertainment .... - Joy? - Yes, joy! ... - In my house can not have that .... - Well, look what you do.
Tell your Aunt Pepa to try to distract her sister.
What is now, when arrive ...
I talked to him, and he said that the April 15 waiting at the hacienda.
Is a done deal, there will have a placement very regular ....
Try to see him tomorrow, before noon, you will give this card ...
Now, the dining room! ...
When I got home my heart skipped a beat.
Let's see what you said .... - Yes, aunt, but after I read it .... - How you want, Rorra! - Replied with a smile.
I ran to my room, lit the lamp, and, overcome by emotion very profound, I read the letter.
My aunt attempted in vain to hide his impatience. - What? ... - Now, auntie, quiet, quiet!
I will read it, but Aunt Carmen's hear too ....
When I finished reading were crying.
But look: it was not my fault: We arrived very late and I was tired, really tired, that all weighting is short.
I've seen some in tree trunks, and other, vines, which are to praise God.
Francisca is useless.
No right out of the kitchen, it does nothing.
The house has been pretty, pretty, because the order and toilet embellish everything.
When we all were sad and gloomy.
Only I have none at all, because sadness is killing me ....
Each time I just want to mourn.
I escaped, I go to the garden, or the church, and there, alone, no one sees me, I cry and cry for you.
Sometimes I think I'm alone in the world, nobody can I want, that you no longer think of me, your poor ....
I do see you, see you at all times, not portrait.
The environment eyes, and then you appear before me, just the same as you ....
And I talk, and talk to me and you very affectionate with me, very cute!
Then I'm happy, very happy, and I feel the happiest of women.
I've been thinking, when this happens to me, that in those moments I want, do not think of me I've forgotten I'm a corpse in your memory.
So you Linilla not forget you, or you away for a moment from his memory.
Yesterday in the afternoon we went for a walk along the banks of the people, they are all slopes.
Dad sat on a rock and began to pray the office, and I, meanwhile, threw me for those intricacies, and climbed and climbed up to a peak from which to see some of the valleys Pluviosilla and Villaverde.
I reached the top, and I fatigadísima.
It is true that since there are mastered Pluviosilla fields, but alas!
The sky was very clean and clear, no clouds in the region, and I said, who was bird to fly there, and fly and fly in search of Rorra, my Rorra!
Sitting there among the foliage, I thinking of you, but eager to mourn ....
It was late, I went down and down, Many cut flowers, and since I can not mandártelas, I chose a fern that is in this letter.
Write me, darling, look at that if I put four letters, although only four letters, I'm going to die of grief.
You are very lazy, and although I love very much, as I to you, you can not write time, and the waiter will come and bring me no letter from you, and I'll have to wait eight days, eight days, which will be for me eight centuries!
Write me, look I'm ready to go to the ranch of the Cedars to find the waiter to give me the letters and orders.
Imagine what penalty will I have if you do not write me!
It's too late: just hit the clock in the room of twelve o'clock, and I can not follow writing.
Think of the poor is very sick, very nervous, and need love and affection.
Pepilla if you have some great work at hand, send me accoutrements, that I will help here; I have much pleasure in helping, that I have spare time and I can use it at that.
Tell me what you do and how you spend your time when you leave the desk, tell me if you think me, if you remember your Linilla who loves you much, much, much, and only lives to love.
No, did not say those page what I felt my heart.
In vain I insisted to transmit to the paper prints mine that produced the letter, in vain I struggled to express the emotion of my soul deeply moved, the sublime emotion Lord of my spirit knotted my tongue, licked my paralyzed eyes and my mind.
The dream long in coming.
As I became to think that soon I would have to be separated of the house to go among strangers and strange win a piece of bread.
Everything else that they envy the crowd is like the crown of tinsel that surrounds the front of the actor.
