Put the candle here, close enough to come see me right the master of the house.
Tia Carmen came over the table, which, in a brass candlestick, burned with a red light tallow candle.
As I saw at will, insisted impatiently Obedeciéronla.
Andrew and Aunt Pepa were standing in front of us.
She was tall and slender, dressed in white, and I thought of singular beauty.
It was always stern and severe, never flattered, never had a sweet and gentle words.
The disease had broken that whole character, iron, as a piece.
Look, Pepa, look: you already have mustache!
Enterito his grandfather!
Here I am, stuck in the butaque, unable to take a step, without being able to help your aunt.
When he said this made me a sign of intelligence, as indicating that the cheating, which she did not think anything of what he said about his illness. - That you're getting a dinner.
While talk of something else.
To sad things, time will be.
I told him a thousand cases of nervous diseases that looked like grave evils, and that with time and care had gone, leaving patients good and healthy.
He seemed satisfied and turned to me and said smiling: - I've walked a lot.
You went well in your exams, and what know!
Ricky Tejeda told us the night we came to visit.
He told us you were very scared.
We pray for you, Pepa went to Mass that day, and I lit a lamp to San Luisito, your San Luisito, so you take out safely.
And tell me, what gave you the money you send for the suit?
My aunt, she and Andrew were removed to the dining room.
The young man came saying - Even though it is dinner ....
I stroked my poor aunt, and went to where I expected.
The good Lord would treat a king, and yet so modest dining and so sad!
III I closed the door, put down the bright candle, and blow extinguished the candle.
The autumn winds had spread in a few minutes black cloud cover, uniformly dark, and only a sparse and subtle point, to the East, where through white veils left guessing the higher regions of ether, the upper ocean air, clean, lined by thousands celajes flying.
Could hear the distant sound of rain.
Oleander swinging their flexible stems, the swaying in the dark floripondio their bells satin, and the splendid glass of orange the first drops, thick and resonant, fell with extraordinary momentum, the forerunners of a long rain.
I was in the house of my own.
how sad it appeared before my eyes.
Perhaps who was not able to love and to estimate its beauties.
I imagined, and my eyes filled with tears.
Well seen I was alone, the good old soon undertaken the eternal journey and left me I would in a world that caused me fear.
Distant thunder, lightning flashing from distant light, announcing that invaded the mountain storm.
In the orange fluttering birds, frightened to feel flooded their nests.
There was my bed as a child: the iron bed its white curtains, and for which I had longed so often in the cold and desolate college dormitory.
There was the washstand fitted throughout, with its woven towel Aunt Pepa.
Beside the bed, above the desk, the square of San Luis Gonzaga.
On one side of a shelf full of books, and close the window school's desk, black student desk, child loving companion, confidant their bitterness, almost witnessed their triumphs, their hopes silent depository.
There was discrete hand placed Aunt studied my first books, carefully preserved in the family, from the Catechism of Ripalda and Fleury, to the Grammar of Iriarte, that stuffed with bad grammar verses, handed me Don Basilio, the eternal mayor Villaverde, an unforgettable night, the night of the distribution of prizes.
Now everything has changed: there are no dreams for the soul, the forehead, before dreamer already has the pallor of the first pain, and tried the bitterness of life, and I know their accents remain on the lips forever.
In one of the books, to open at random, my eyes stumbled upon a woman's name: Matilde!
Thus, between two exclamation, a cry of joy, as the sweetest expression of hope, as an admission of affection smothered in the chest, one day we miss irresistible and reveals to the student mischief, cruel and harsh to the indiscretion of his fellow students, a woman of that name is in our heart an altar, where it is worshiped and tributes; where only queen, lady of all pure affection, the owner of all thoughts, sovereign our agency.
And I thought a girl looked pale, blond, slender and graceful, with large violet eyes, a girl whose face became angelic beauty of heaven, which gracefully adorned with rich blue dress, short skirt, revealing a very short feet, happened and fled, and was going to get lost in the shadow cast on the wall the white couch: the object of my sweet girl's first love, that love first embalmed with the aroma of lilies the longest life, all existence.
I could not resist and took it to my lips that book, that page, not like that name repeat, but rings in my ears like heavenly melody, which is engraved in my heart; not depart from my mind, that for me expresses everything that is sweet and pure and holy here on earth.
Do not forget or you forget, perhaps because as a child I wrote many times, every hour, everywhere, in books, in notebooks, on any paper that I had about where in my hands had a pencil or pen.
I do not do with impunity; I wound in the chest, I tear the heart as if I dragged myself on him a beam spines.
And yet, that was madness, a delirium of a madman.
That life is always given to dream and always wave at the playground of the imagination, fed and nourished with saucers La Martine, was diverted, perhaps pernicious, but alas!
so beautiful that every hour, is yours seemed to me like the song of a poem whose sublime sublime delicacy and sets it off of this miserable life on earth and lead us to live in an ideal world, I look like a symphony numbing, something like the music of the great masters, as well as Mozart, Beethoven or Wagner, which removes us from the painful and mundane material life and makes us happy few hours, killing us all pain, all nuisance.
Fatigue had rendered me, spoiling the care the ill-fated trip had bruised me from head to foot, and began to feel faint precursor of sleep.
In the seventeen years always sleep well.
Neither domestic nor sadness fortunes faded memories of us lose sleep.
Now, as Becquer said: A sleep and snoring as choristers.
IV I do not know what time I woke up.
Know the place where I was, I turned and went across sleeping until eight o'clock.
They would not, of course, I woke up, so I retaliate desmañanadas of the College. - To sleep until you want! - Say the good ladies will be Fed .-- up early in ten years in prison.
The light filtering through the cracks of the roof and cracks in the window, happy and merry made me leave the bed.
Rang out the broom sweeper singer intelligent singing birds and hens cackling.
A raucous crow launched from time to time, Sultan his arrogant edge.
Do not attempt to change costumes, and got the very dusting the night before, I smelled that smell the ways of the central plateau, to dryness and barren land.
It's nine, and here I am, without trying bite, waiting for the knight, while he sleeps like a marquis.
He says he soon will bundle the mat, which already came and that, perhaps, that God expects nothing take it.
That happens every day, always upset you with sadness, always making us mourn!
You will take coffee with milk, eh?
You guys ya do not like chocolate, say it is antique.
Yo, son, like your grandfather, chocolate and nothing else good chocolate though.
Say it, boy, that's why you are at home.
Chiquer the child should be! ...
Tongue loose, lively, witty, it was difficult to cut Once the thread was beginning to speak.
I think you see: you went to hide in the cellar.
From there you we take for you to come and eat, and came pale and tearful.
It was the charm of the house.
was shattered. - Well, as I was I saying, - said my aunt, - is very good girl ...
He continued, addressing me: - It is with Carmen.
It is the joy of the house.
It is very lively, very wise, and writes that it is one, loved it!
You know the lyrics, she write when I'm with migraine.
ask him to San Antonio. - He deserves it, son, you deserve it. - I have a boyfriend, I suppose, Aunt Pepa?
