The pain, the consternation of those generous and honest people, not for colored.
It ran back and forth, desperately sniffing Canelo (the other two dogs had swept the hurricane) was called in all Chisco imaginable shades of human anguish, and were removed piles of snow with the shovel, with hoe, feet, fingernails ...
Pete stood the good spread one's legs on the edge of the creek and looking forward down.
There, in the narrow spine of rock that only moved into the abyss and was rooted on the shore, about thirty feet below where he claimed his men to look Pito and those who had come to his call, they saw a body half covered by snow.
Undoubtedly was to Chisco, by signs of her dress and size, but what would some life into inanimate creature appeared?
Pete argued that yes, because he dared swear he had caught some "movición 'arm in it.
And here the longing and despair, because the relief was difficult and time was pressing inexorable.
The cut of the mountain on that side was almost vertical, overhanging the ravine, and had only a slight stretch, very smear slope precisely to lead the rock with which he joined at its base.
Between the rock and the base of the slope had a space of several yards.
In that space, too leaning on the rock and well marked inclination into the abyss, was what looked like Chisco face down and motionless, apparently confirming Canelo top beating wildly and looking for a path along which come to the aid of its owner.
The slope was covered, until the top edge of a layer would measure not less snow yard and a half thick, and must measure perhaps much more double what it was in the plain below, on one side of which lay no sign Chisco of life, even vowing to continue Chorcos yes it was intended.
Remove snow from above, was even slightly (and hence the Neluco precaution taken with cinnamon), equivalent to produce a shift in it, which, gaining weight and speed of hand in hand, would to the rock like an avalanche of enough thrust to drag Chisco to the depths of the canyon.
This, it was in everyone's mind was what had febrile and dismayed.
Salces Pito, who did not fit himself and walked miles per second in three feet of soil they occupied their feet was suddenly punched in the face.
They answered yes. - Will we ca a Eyas to abaju?
He was told that with leftover same.
Examined the rope, measuring arm in arm, the left then screwed into the ground near the edge of the ravine, put blade on the thread, and turned to peer over the edge.
Then he asked the nearest of that silent and looked at him with curiosity: - Will there be even, even, six feet of snow on the way from there yanauca of baju? - And more - are answered.
He kissed his hand to the Priest; arrimóse again to the edge of the ravine said he watched the amazed, to ignore the plans that will move to do those strange things that have lists the shovel and the rope when asked him for a moment looked down santiguóse quickly invoked "Jesus crucified ..." and there goes that!
Was launched into the abyss between amazement and horror of all.
It should be noted that since he noticed the lack of Chisco until that sublime awful, did not go ten minutes.
Those who saw Pito Salces fall (which were all that remained above the caravan, Canelo including) the right, stiff as a spindle, and making the wings and swing arms for controllable in the air, unable to figure out which came first, sinking into the snow to the cross of their pants, or put both hands on the motionless body of his friend preying on him.
Then he pulled the body with all its forces, managed to drag their land and left in the snow in safer and backs.
Blade fell quickly, perfectly plumb and on-site that pointed to Chorcos hand, took possession of it, and began to snow EXPAL right and left, throwing over the edges of that air and lower peninsula joined to the mainland of the mountain by an isthmus that was three yards wide.
A whole lend the distressed lord, unless it is notified Neluco or Don Sabas, because after of the struggle they had had since the dawn, they needed rest as much as him.
We, the second touch, the third, the mass ...
