Hyoscyamus NIGER (Bethlehem). § I. - History.
Plant Solanaceae Juss pentandria .-- From monoginia, Linn.
Henbane, taken as a general narcotic, only the authors has received very limited modern properties, and read, you can not doubt that the ancients used to a greater number of diseases.
It is likely that the abuse it has been relegated had concluded by the number of drugs inapplicable, if you fail to specify Hahnemann use by esperimentales data.
The dream was driving to the opposite state when it came to awaken, and excitement of the senses developed and intellectual faculties, well-being and better physical disposition.
In other circumstances, even stronger doses have resulted in a significant depletion of the pulse, paleness face, coldness in the extremities, dimming of vision, seizures, fainting.
In most common cases of poisoning have been observed: dizziness, drowsiness, delirium cheerful, pupil dilation, hallucination of the senses, gestures, ridiculous, aphonia, coma, lethargy.
At the same time from the first moments of intoxication, are noted nausea, extremity of the dry throat and mouth, anxiety, epigastric pain, but later diarrhea, general cooling, extremity weakness, tremors, pallor, cold sweat, pulse very small and uneven, loss of sensation, paralysis of the limbs, swelling of face, panic, fainting, and a kind of suffocation.
It is not logical to try this drug for these purposes alone, and accept their action hipostenizante by the lack of symptoms flegmásicos.
The weak and medium doses resulting in more symptoms special and more useful, and can be deduced more elective action henbane and their therapeutic applications.
Henbane, because if it is similar to the deadly nightshade for its elective action in the brain differs mainly for their lack of direct influence on the blood system, so far Henbane has not, like belladonna, rubicundeces scarlet skin, blood or orgasm, nor hard and full pulse or hindered in their development itself offers henbane blemishes skin and swelling in the face, but some are black, and the other pale or dark, and these characters, together with its congestion passibility indicate, not an activity of circulation, but a stagnation of blood in the capillaries.
Examining its pathogenesis, we espressi in various parts of varying degrees of action, as shown by the following: talkativeness, irritability, envy, now behold have symptoms another significance: anger, delirium seizures, certain hobbies, and loss, in short, the knowledge, apathy, clumsiness or muscle weakness that comes rather from a congestive state asthenic than an active or acute congestion
