At the top crossed a vast hall where many young people rushed to make way and greet with the familiarity that is used in small towns.
In the ladies room there was already enough, all dressed up, but most of them, like Cecilia, without a mask.
In the past five years, the dances seemed visits Liceo of condolence.
Half a dozen or so young ladies, shoulders and chest into the air, face was powdered, conversing quietly in a corner beyond the vast living room, while your moms side drew some strips of skin from absent friends.
Giving as many chickens around in the lobby, the air sad, dull eyes, buttoning gloves each with the forks of his sisters.
Every two or chicken dance three polkas, lancers rigodones with the sisters or their friends.
At noon or 0:30 squad went all in, roll up our pants and skirts, respectively, and sheltering under the umbrella, talking aloud to through the deserted streets and humid.
Don Mateo, firm, indomitable, tenaciously preserved with loving care, this meager coals the fire of pleasure.
Thanks to his perseverance, that night became alive and animated fire.
No But did you know fix Rato's daughter ...
Most of them were old.
A young, they liked to show palm and the slenderness of her waist, with a historical costume.
There were ladies Venetian, Roman, the Lower Empire, Hebrew, at the time of Louis XV, Board of Philip II, and even Pas of more recent times.
Could be seen Whimsical and romantic clothes, which did not support classification, one starry night, another Tulip, another passenger pigeon with a little note to the neck.
Men generally had no costume: wearing the coat long and awkward, which only came to light on such occasions.
However, some could be seen with dominoes, which they used to come and talk to their girlfriends, without danger of being interrupted by moms.
A group of young members of the cabin, coming this way, had the happy idea of ??dressing Don Jaime Marin maragato.
When I had dressed this way, they told him better than a mask, suited being painted, to which he was paid.
The boy took a brush and paint box, and pretending smeared him with a thousand colors, we walked a long time brush his face, soaked in water only.
The young thugs were careful not provide it.
Neither the mother who bore him can know.
Under the faith of the word, good Marín was carried away to the Lyceum.
His friends advised him not to fail to make jokes at certain ladies, to which he replied, that would be as poultices.
And indeed, so I entered the room, started talking to the girls screaming in a falsetto voice: - Hello, Rosarito, where have you left Anselmo?
We know that every night at ten he throw a little note from the balcony. - But, Don Jaime! - Exclaimed the girl looked at him with surprise .-- how come you so? - Diablo!
Since I have known - said the good Marín away.
Went immediately to another, and it was the same. - It's individual - completed by said .-- All at once I know ...
Be by voice, because what is painted, so I órdago!
When I was making this reflection, a bony hand grabbed him from behind. - Great ass, simpleton, blockhead, who has gotten you here this way?
It was his beloved companion, the ingenious and severe Dona Brigida. - Come on, beast, go, you always serve as a clown everywhere!
And it was getting pushed from the room.
The good lady, who came disguised domino mask, then left him third on the express orders to leave immediately and strict home, he put it back into the center of the dance, which was a matter of importance resolve, as we shall see.
Surrounded by a group of masks was the sympathetic Feliciano Gómez.
His great pyramid peel and shiny head, towered above pride.
Were women who were circle around him, arming din unbearable.
Jokes that he lavished touched Injury often. - Feliciano, a miracle that you have made your sisters come to dance!
Since you have not been allowed to marry, should give a little of freedom.
Bravo dealer, without being offended, replied with a smile kindly to those harpies.
Al Finally, tired of his patience, he was left in peace.
The adorable Pablito, properly dressed in tails, with a white flower in his buttonhole, had out while both the Hebrew conquest of some beautiful daughter of an artillery commander who had just arrived.
The poor thing, seeing surrendered at his feet the young richer and more handsome of the town, let out through every pore of his handsome face flushed, the intimate joy that was upon him.
The girls of the population watched with an expression of mockery.
Those eyes said: - 'Enjoy, enjoy a little unhappy that soon it will be disappointment. " Pablito, bent, submissive, the ear was pouring hot and clever phrases such as: - Yesterday, when Tejada came from, I saw you with your dad, so nice weekend as usual. - What a joker!
Guide you very well. - You Please Carmencita.
Don Agapito's coachman had spoiled entirely, especially the Gallardo, the left, you know?
a little darker than another ...
That was one thing missing.
If it falls into other hands, at this hour is not worth two pesetas.
Today is better than the other yet ...
Matter of patience, you know - he said with mock modesty.
The beautiful Hebrew protested - Come on, do not you do the little that we know that you do very well. - Patience and a little practice - Pablito repeated bathing in rose water.
Then he said with complete freedom in his opinion what was a good driver.
Hand soft and firm at the same time, the living eye, strong punishment when necessary, but not irritated; They have a great knowledge of what are the horses.
Without the careful study and thoughtful temperament of these animals, impossible to guide regularly.
Carmencita listened spellbound.
A Cecilia had approached him shortly after entering the room, Paco Flores, one engineer who asked for her hand via Gonzalo.
From that she give him pumpkin, which, as we have seen, sought only a modest woman, industrious and with some money, was in love it and the sun chased.
In Sarrió, seeing the continuing celebration engineer the eldest of Belinchón it was believed that only wanted to forward to the dowry.
Flores had really come to love.
If you stay poor Cecilia suddenly, it would make her his wife.
The latter behavior was also proper to turn his dream.
For all his gifts and compliments always responded with kindness and gratitude.
There was no danger that the young man withdrew from the balcony when he was passing, and dodging their conversation when I was in a house known or give him any of those slights that both do enjoy most of the girls.
He was a good friend, keeping him all the attention to be the person himself or herself.
But when the engineer wanted to move forward, asked a little love, a ray of hope, even for tomorrow, was the very negative, smooth, firm and consistent.
And what was worse, Cecilia, to deny he did not with pleasure, but with disgust, as if you ache cause annoyance to a friend.
After dancing a waltz, and sat down exhausted in a corner of the room.
Flores had caught the fan, and fanned respectfully. - So I would like to spend my life - said in a tone sincere. - Oh!
Would soon tire - Cecilia replied smiling. - Will you try?
The young woman replied. - Not you, Cecilia, of women who suddenly disgusted.
Has you in his heart and his intelligence resources to have on your feet the man who loves her.
More than two years ago I live in love with you, and instead of tired, every time I feel more connected to you, each time more desperately in love ...
to the point of being mocked by the people. - That you can not say in advance - said she, a little touched by the fire and excitement Flores had told his words .-- is not the same seeing a woman briefly, and talk of Easter to Ramos, his side have it forever. - What else would I, Cecilia!
Have her with me always, always! - Replied quietly and shaking the engineer, playing with the fan and staring at the floor .-- Consecration my life to serve, to worship on their knees ...
That you do not make me conceive the slightest hope that one day, distant Anyway, my love come to soften it, and accept me as a slave even ... - I agree for friend, good friend - said the girl gravely. - Man, oh ...
That friendship, Cecilia, is an ice wall that stands between you and I ...
I understand that I have no merit whatsoever to deserve your love ...
But the strange thing, which I encouraged and discouraged at the same time, is that you have not fixed in any so far ...
His heart remains idle, indifferent ...
I mean, unless you have a secret love.
Cecilia shuddered slightly and lifted her eyes a little towards the place where you could hear Gonzalo's voice.
Answered after more severely than usual: - Allow you to study both inside, Flores, first, because the most likely be as vulgar as that of most women, and second, because if there was any in particular it would not be easy for you to discover. - Do not be offended, Cecilia.
This study is proof of just how much you me interest. - Do not offend me - said the young woman .-- I tried to smile and say hello to Rosario.
In the lobby, separated only by a few columns of the hall, parents chatted serious casting glances paid to this, where they saw their daughters play.
Ever, highlighted a mask dance, and came to teasing.
It was some old contemporary that made them laugh and coughing to bursting with old stories.
Don Rosendo in a corner talking to Don Melchor de las Cuevas.
Explicábale a huge project to port, impressive as all his family.
Because can not represent well what science had grown as large, in Belinchón recent years.
It was a more intuitive science gained power of study, as it happens all great men.
At first when I would write in El Faro on a topic did not know, showed himself wary, hesitant, timid.
But as well the subjects learned journalism, and had at its disposal a lot of idioms, and especially received as an encyclopedic dictionary in fifteen volumes, which cost no less than two thousand pieces, that really was cut and crack!
There was no issue or scientific problem, social, economic and political environment in which Don Rosendo ceases to get the scoop with great splendor.
It was the plague that was raging in cattle: Don Rosendo looking in your dictionary the words cattle, horse, bull, sheep, feed, livestock industry, etc., and so I read what I said about them, took the pen, and his genius was responsible journalism draw one or more articles, brimming with philosophy and scholarship.
He came, as now, the question port, and went to the dictionary looking for words port, dock, tides, dredging, winds, etc.
Seven articles had been written and published at the time, to demonstrate the need to build a large dock in front of Sarrió, at one point called tundish.
He looked like a sailor consummated, tired of sailing the seas, gray in the study of hydraulic problems.
However, Mr de las Cuevas, but astounded that shuffle mode maritime terms, some of which even he knew, wry face the verbal explanations Rosendo gave him.
He concluded by saying, putting his hand on his shoulder - Undeceive you Belinchón: in the dock for you, the wind brought the Northwest not enter or sardines.
The most enjoyed at this event, who knew?
was an old man, the good Don Mateo, who was due exclusively.
For him, that meant dancing one of the great triumphs of life.
More work had cost him gather there to the bitter neighbors in the village, which take a stronghold to the Carlist Guardamino action.
She kept on all night walking, rather, to crawl from one side to another, issuing orders to the servants, the concierge, to the orchestra. - Gervasio, trays of candy now ...
That night the good man was rejuvenated.
Enjoyed by all young people, as the mystics have a general communion.
From time to time her dim eyes were fixed above the glasses, the wooden globe hanging in the middle of the room, and caressed him with a smile pleasure.
That exquisite artifact, come from Bordeaux, was painted with blue stripes white.
Below it hung a multitude of ribbons of various colors, all of which, but one would be in the hands of the girls, pulling for them.
The one given to ribbon opening the piñata being awarded the globe, loaded, no doubt, candy, and as was said, very nice goodies.
Gonzalo, in the middle of the room, also showed himself happy, when mingling with one, when with another lady.
Had danced a quadrille with his sister, and a polka and a waltz with two friends of his wife.
He kept wiping his forehead with his handkerchief.
His great Towering figure, stood out like a tower above every head. - What is the mayor encouraged! - One lady told Empire. - We must take advantage of the absence of Ventura - replied the young man, laughing .-- Where is your husband, Magdalena? - For there walks. - You dance with me this polka.
I have it committed to Peña.
As well talking to all who approached him, a woman in black domino rebujos, mask the same color, not a moment lost sight of, now located at a point now in another, but always within walking distance from it.
Through the holes in the mask were two eyes shining and wild.
Dona Brigida was the witty companion lowered Marin lurking timely, as the baritone of Un ballo in maschera to give the stabbing.
The victim there was a prince, here, nothing more than the mayor.
The reasons that the eminent lady had to think that crime will not be as powerful as the baritone in the eyes of a man; but surely I look like any woman.
Sarrió Lighthouse, eager to bite at all Cabin partners, relatives and friends had taken for three or four months, with the wife of Marin.
Surfaced all domestic secrets; life marriage, dependency and degradation of Marin were put into a caricature.
It had this purpose, in print, all more or less humorous anecdotes running through the town, and some more discovered or invented by the thugs editors.
Irritation, anger, hatred and desire for revenge that had awakened in this lady, nobody can bear.
Suffice it to say that when he saw any editor El Faro in the street, paled horribly could scarcely prevent him throw the neck, like a rabid cat.
Until then had been unable to satisfy that craving devoured her revenge.
So now, looking at Gonzalo, was lapped with joy, shiver of longing, like a tiger prey currency.
Taking advantage of a moment nobody spoke with him, went to him very quietly and behind.
And suddenly getting ahead, spit but he said these words: - Gonzalo, how you're so colt?
You're still the fun and laughter around the world.
No one person in the dance does not know that your wife is sleeping at this hour with the Duke Lathe.
The young man was as if he had been with a mallet on the forehead.
He tried to grab the infamous mask to tear the mask, but it was not possible.
Dona Bridget had slipped away like an eel through the crowd.
As there were many ladies in the same outfit, impossible to know who he was.
The those words sounded in his head as fierce hammer.
In answered the threshold stupid smile Amicale phrases addressed to him.
His uncle don Melchor, seeing him so pale, came to him: - What are you, Gonzalillo: Do ??you feel bad? - Yes ...
I'll take a cup of tea. - I'll walk. - No, no, come back soon.
And ran, and left him standing near the door.
Was found in the street without realizing what he did.
Cold air of the night cooled the head and called him back in their agreement.
Suddenly he resolved leaving for Tejada.
He went a long way towards the house his father-in Rua Nueva, but when he had taken a few steps, he said he was hatless and tails.
