When we usually encounter petty beings with souls degraded, for which self-respect is vain word, if not reach the ears touches the heart, or dyed red cheeks, saying: "Soul of a slave!" And without wanting to think of a life of misery that debased the character and spirit trap for fools.
Say what you will, that nobility is the only happiness of the rich.
For her, only for her, admiring the world.
Observe all those who lived a miserable childhood, in whose home is often missed bread, they had no clothes to cover the emaciated body that begged ashamed public charity, and not as a beggar, with quiet directness, but hiding the demand flattering phrase, which became, gradually, the shy smile embarrassing to the appeal; suggestive of the request to the shameful exploitation, and from there ...
tolerance interested and you will see, whether in wealth, but the mime and society's wealth has As compensation for a time denied even have hidden in the heart most vinegar and gall of misery.
Hopeless poverty gives character, and its breast hypocritical breed pride, modesty mocking, malicious cunning, who have flexibilities Viper, the meanness intriguing poisonous slander and envy all bloodless the greed and everything ugly.
In pursuit of that noble dignity are all souls uplifted, high thinking, cease heart: the student who strives to conquer worthy place in society, the merchant spent at work the best years of life, the tradesman who struggle for life independent.
The desire to achieve it is the only apology that is greed.
My father wanted me that coveted happiness could not achieve their goals, but he inherited the instinct of pride pride with which I rejected all the time, a boy, a waiter, and mature man unworthy humiliation, reprimand unmotivated, the brutal outrage of those who was considered superior to me.
I inherited my mother's placid sweetness for weakness, submission respectful to all acts of justice, irresistible tendency to feel sorry for the pain of others, and a certain feminine delicacy that has caused me a lot of bitterness.
Delivered to these meditations spent an hour.
Wine sleep, and sweet wine and flattering, as a loving friend who comes to our call to give comfort, to revive the depressed heart as a compassionate sister who comes to our bed and caresses our face, -closed our eyes, inviting us to rest because he knows that we suffer and we need rest.
XXXIX The next day, after breakfast, I told my aunt what was happening. - And you go! - Cried my aunt Pepa .-- You go and leave us? - Is necessary.
I realize this must be very painful for you ....
I understand, I have already thought about it, but what to do? - Now that we are alone, when Angelina just left ...
Andrés ago for us what he can, and the poor may soon.
I am not ashamed to accept his favors; but that should not go on indefinitely ....
You know the house of Castro Pérez I earn little, and it is not possible to earn more. - Well, I think there is your future ....
I could not but smile to hear my poor aunt. - My future? - Yes. - No, aunt, I would not spend my life writing allegations.
This work is killing me.
Not because rude, but because it is insufficient.
I prefer to farm work and the hectic life of the fields giving health and good humor.
Aunt Pepa tried to convince me that I should not leave.
We discussed at length the point, she, living, nerve, unleashing all the difficulties, I pretending that he had a serenity.
Neither the old woman wanted to surrender and I managed to convince her. - Come on - I cried - that solves my sponsor! - Yes, my son - said the old woman - it's my turn!
Pepa loves you and is made let us drive.
Think you, Pepa, which is not far from us, think that will come frequently, and believes that now, with Castro Pérez, will do nothing.
You go, Rodolfo, I go, and we'll be very happy.
Get dressed, I see that as you judge, dress and go to the home of Fernandez.
He added a little tremulous emotion: - Look, I feel that we leave, but reason dictates that you let me go, that it does not prevent you you're doing.
I am the best day I'll go too, and I will not die when I choke the idea that because we have lost well-being that we can not give you ....
The old woman's voice was becoming weaker every day, and no emotion is turned off until be imperceptible.
To soothe the sick and leave it alone gave him a hug and kissed her on the forehead. - No, godmother, we should not grieve!
I will come to see you every week.
The patient smiled, smiled Pepilla aunt and I walked around the room, affecting the brave admirable bearing of a rider.
An hour later I went out of the house of Mr.
Presented the doctor card I obtained perfectly.
The farmer showed me into his office, an elegant piece trousseau.
Do you have custom Riding? - No, sir, I do like a schoolboy ....
Then he spoke of my family, my aunts, my godmother's disease, my grandfather, who had tried not to know how much, and then fired me two words. - Well, - said - problem solved!
And he rose and led me to the door.
Blushed when he saw me, and murmured shyly: - You dispense .... - What is it, Gabriel? - Asked the gentleman. - What time are we leaving? - After eating ...
XL When I reached the office I met the legal expert.
Why what comes to you at this hour?
Remind yourself that duty comes first.
Tell the girls you I do not wait ....
Return between four and five.
A little, when I was beginning to write, I heard in the hall feminine voices that distracted my attention.
Luisa and Teresa, (the others were not speaking) appeared in front of the desk.
Then they learned that Don Juan was out and would not return until the afternoon, the two girls of brashly slipped into the office, and sat on the bench of the customers.
Fanned furiously, and looked and smiled as willing to say something they do not fit in the body. - Did not steal the time? - Asked the brunette. - No, miss. - Really? - Said the blonde. - No. - Well then - burst Luisa, - leave the pen and a chat. - As you like. - What you do not know where we come from? - In the church store, come buy perendengues and bows. - No! - Cry out with one. - I fail .... - Guess you !...-- said the brunette. - Guess you !...-- repeated the blonde. - No success, ladies .... - Do you hear, Luisa?
I just came, and you would leave me home .. - Do you hear, Tere?
home! - Then from there I left an hour ago. - "So at home, eh? - The brunette muttered .-- From home!
Luisa, to show off her beautiful hands, her hair was made, stating with forks fingertips.
Teresa sat in the seat letting me see your feet, carefully shoes, then slammed the fan, pretended that he would set the rods, lowered eyes, and after a pause, he repeated, looking at me straight in the eye: - "So at home, eh?
That "So" was the catch phrase of the Miss Castro Pérez, and Villaverde when they spoke, everyone said "So Castro girls." - What are you laughing? - Asked the blonde upset. - Sure.
You are very malicious .... - So Home! - Again .-- say you did not know who lived there in the "pa ...
The storm was over. - You are very malicious.
I went to collect a signature. - You!
We pay a visit.
Because we were ashamed to see Gabriela.
Just imagine that over a year ago he came here.
Can not you see Rodolfo ....? - Tell me, Teresa, you say! - No, Tere! - Pleaded Luisa. - Well I have to say! ...
Miss that we ...
You say what you like ...
but if it is true what they have, you have to blame for everything, because it makes you a bears terrible ....
Are you there for hours, on the railing of the Plaza.
She played without expression, without a compass ...
Ricardo had been her boyfriend, I knew very well, he told me in college, and Teresa could not forgive my friend who, at some "end" with it, it has seen much interest to the elegant and charming lady.
Hence Gabriela hatred, hence murmur of her beauty here that everything in afeara Miss Fernandez. - Yes - strongly replied Teresa - I know that you have a rival Ricardo ....
We listened intently Luisa, played with her fan, and he smiled at me hear.
The girls stood up, chattering two or three minutes, and left.
Teresa turned to me, and malicious tone between pleading and said: - Rodolfo: enamórela you!
XLI Pérez Castro arrived a little before five o'clock.
He went silent, he left his hat on the table and staff, and then, step by step, he went to mine: - Have you finished the copy? - Here it is.
I followed him. - I want to talk with you two little words. - What is it?
I told him I was going to be separated, which is why I was forced by necessity, my expenses were still higher every day, and there I was earning enough to meet my family. - Come on - I stopped - what is that?
You are right; duty comes first.
No, sir, I assure you that this is not the cause of my separation.
I do not win here what I need, and, of course, I am obligated to ensure that my aunts did not lack nothing.
No one has won here more than you.
I will not say I pay a lump sum or anything, because the money does not come with the rain, but ...
you're single, you have no family, no obligations ....
Pérez Castro continued: - You will not be happy in Santa Clara.
You do not have a habit of killing and, from sunrise to sunset, as a farmhand.
Today call the substitute.
You shall be free from today! - I had to stay here, serving you until the day I should be on the farm, and I wanted .... - No, young man, no, what is to be late to be early.
He opened the desk drawer, pulled out a handful of coins, I made the account, both by day as a servant, and gave me a few dollars.
And then I remembered, one by one, all the bad times that had passed me in the house the jurist, and where ever I saw not, although they were few.
Mistrust, bad manners, despotic treatment, reprimands unmotivated, corrections stupid feats of science that had designed to maintain a credit founded on sand, and, above all, that distrust offensive insulting, there are some rich towards the poor that serves and earn little, who fears all evil, and who can offend with impunity, it is known that the outraged will be silent, because if you speak and reply, and rejects the infamous energy noble suspicion will run the daily crust won at the expense of hard labor.
Have children, wife ... 'And you trusted in this outraged and runs without piety.
But then my heart had fallen into a drop of gall.
Do not forget or never forget that one day, in the office of Castro Perez, received a good amount in cash, told and retold coins, I checked with the greatest care, and were complete.
Trembling out soon and angry. - Here you need money !...-- burst into loud, in front of Porras and Linares.
Don Cosme did not realize what was happening.
Was six, I picked up some papers I had in the desk drawer, I thanked Castro Pérez for their kindness to me and threw me on the street.
Our costs had risen considerably, had to pay a maid, and was obliged to buy I do not know why prescribing expensive medicines Sarmiento, and wine of supreme class for the sick.
Andrew, generous as ever, came to my aid. - Do not worry - I said - the tenducho goes a long way.
I left the house of Castro Pérez, besides annoying output seemed offensive to me my good name, I got depressed and discouraged.
All those who saw me on the streets, without occupation or employment, and before I saw the lawyer's office, think, without doubt, that Castro Perez was fired for something I embarrassing.
Tell me to ponder on this, and I decided to stay at home.
I spent my day reading, writing and gardening.
Plants that Angelina and I had planted prospered to wonder, the roses recovered their lush foliage, the tiller which was a violet glory, and the picture of "forget me not" looked like a plush carpet.
One day, tired of spending time within four walls, took his hat and went to gathering at the house of Don Procopio.
There were the teachers and the P.
As soon as I saw my critics began to smile as if to mock me as if I had remembered since gold and blue in their newspapers
