Look, you're disrespecting me.
To the Marchioness, bells printed noble character as the sacrament of order.
The Marquise he was told the office was busy writing letters.
The gallant young man could not choose better words to catechize Aunt Eugenia.
The young man smiled making an affirmative sign. - Who is it? - I thought Esperanza Calderon.
You see, has always been a close friend of my Peace ....
Castro smiled slyly and said: - Look, man, I would rather marry a woman from our class ....
But you well know that I completely ruined ....
The young noblemen, unfortunately, are often not take on fortune.
Those that do, I do not want me I can not offer more that what they have already, that is, a name.
So I've noticed a lacking him and have money. - It is well thought.
Although it is compromising a bit, we must save our names shame ....
He was raised among us.
The gallant young man did not leave that mischievous smile of irony.
He was silent a moment and said within: - Do you know, aunt, what name we give each other at marriage in this way? - How? - Take manure.
The Marchesa smiled at the edge of the lips, but then getting serious, he replied: - No, here you can not say that, Pepe.
Which is winning in this case are you .... "Are you dating now?
I know I'm not unsympathetic.
We look with favor, but relationships, nothing.
Before you request them I wanted to consult with you, the more marked I have today within the family in Madrid. - Very well done.
When it comes to marriage, that After a sacrament of the Church, you have to keep restraint and formality.
In the old days better than these, not performed a wedding without hearing from us soon The view of the elderly.
I deeply appreciate the trust you me, and certainly can have my approval. - And with your help I can count?
Look I am afraid that some difficulties arise by his father ....
The Marquise became thoughtful for a moment. - Leave it to me.
But you must promise me not take a step without consulting me.
Business diplomat is to be worn with caution and skill. - Promised aunt. - Above all, with great care girl ....
Do not be alarmed me. - I'll send you me.
A few moments after leaving both the office and walked into the room, where he had some outsiders.
During Lent, the Marquise de Alcudia entertained his friends in the evenings on Friday, dedicating them to prayer and religious practices.
Were there Ujo and Marquise and her daughter, always with mid-calf skirts, General Patiño, Lola Madariaga and her husband with his mistress Clementina Salabert Pascuala company and several other people, including Father Ortega.
As he actually belonged honors afternoon and was the director of the party, all formed a group around him in the middle of the room.
But all spoke louder than him.
The word was always illustrated Piarist soft, muffled, as if never leave the room of a patient.
The Marquise approaching, humbly kissed her hand and asked with interest in the cold that made days suffered. - But are you a cold, father? "- Once asked many ladies. - A little nothing - replied the priest smiling sweetly. - A little, no, enough.
Yesterday did not stop you from coughing in San Jose - said the marchioness.
