Ignore if the sentence has been fulfilled, but we're going to shoot from one moment to another, and everyone in our world know that you are the real author of his misfortune.
It is frightening to think about the hatred accumulated by this fact and the next revenge.
The name Ferragut in Berlin was being given special attention, in all nations of the earth repeated it at the time the civil battalions of men and women engaged in Germanic work for the victory.
The submarine commanders spent reports of his ship and himself.
He had dared to attack the greatest empire on earth, he, a man just a simple merchant captain, depriving the kaiser of one of its most valuable servers. - What have you done, Ulysses? ...
And Ferragut finally recognize this voice a genuine interest in his person, a great fear the dangers that he felt threatened. - Here in your country, you will achieve his revenge.
The sailor left his contemptuous indifference.
Was shocked to think that those aliens were chasing him at home: it was as if attacked him in his own home.
National pride has increased his anger. - Let them come! - He said -.
And looked around, clenching his fists, as if they were to emerge from the walls these adversaries countless unknown. - I too begin to consider as an enemy - the woman continued -.
I do not say, because between us is a matter of course hide the thoughts, but I guess in the cold around me ...
The doctor knows that I love you as before, notwithstanding the anger that she feels against you.
The others talk about your 'treason', and I protest, because I can not tolerate this lie ...
Traitors all of us: me, you complicate a fatal adventure; them I pushed you to take advantage of your services.
Life in Naples resurfaced in his memory, and felt the need to explain their actions. - You have not been able to understand me, unaware of the truth ...
When I found you on the road Paestum were to me a thing of the past, a piece of my youth, the time only vaguely knew the doctor and I had not yet committed in the service of "information" ...
Represented an interesting fun your attentions to the Spanish, waiting outside the hotel to lay siege to your promises and oaths.
I was bored while waiting enforced in Naples.
You, on your part, you looked also Forced to wait, and looking at me a break nice ...
Lie! - Ferragut voice murmured to the woman down spiteful. - Say what you want, but that was ...
To meet in Another time, we would have been just a few hours, following each his way, not no desire to love.
But we were detained in same country, possessed of the tedium of waiting, and what should be ...
I tell the whole truth: If you knew what it cost me rehuirte! ...
In the morning, first thing in the room hotel, my first move was to look through the curtains to convince me to expect on the street. "There's my flirt, there's my boyfriend." Perhaps you had not slept well thinking me.
And I felt my soul remade, a soul than twenty years, enthusiastic and naive girl ...
My first impulse was to go down to join you, Staying within the shores of the Gulf, as two lovers of romance ...
I had forgotten the past, and falling, I stunned with the sound field, vibrant memories. "Poor man ...
Just let me address, cool and ironic, when I could not get rid of your meeting, and then the doctor's house, talking about you every moment, laughing with her romantic attentions of these.
Ferragut heard grim, but with an increasingly concentrated attention.
Sensed the explanation many incomprehensible acts.
I recognized him the morning when I had the urge to go the Aquarium.
Had many days without seeing you, living outside the hotel, home of the doctor, for not run into my flirt.
now I understand.
Paused, raising his eyes towards him to appreciate the effect of his words. - Remember our lunch in the restaurant of the Vomero, remember how I begged you walked away, leaving me to my destination.
But I loved you.
I wanted to save my departure, and at the same time I was afraid of not seeing you again.
The night that irritates me with the fury of your desires, and I defended myself stupidly, as if you were a stranger, concentrating on yourself hatred I inspire all men, that night I cried to see me alone in my bed.
I cried thinking that I'd lost forever, and at the same time I felt satisfied, because then you get rid of my influence ...
Then came Von Kramer.
spoke, proud of their insight that you had to guess a usable force.
I gave the order to go for yours, again take possession of your will.
My first impulse was refusing, thinking about your future.
The rest you know.
The doctor was concerned about events in Italy.
I just thought counting the days, finding that passed more slowly than others.
My only satisfaction was to learn that we came to Spain.
The doctor promised to do great things here ...
I thought I was nowhere easier to return to find ...
His hands touched the knees of Ferragut.
I wanted to hug to them, and he dared not do so for fear that repelled him, shading his tragic inertia allowing him to listen. - While in Bilbao I knew about the torpedoing of the Californian and the death of your son ...
No I will tell you this, I cried, I cried a lot, hiding from the doctor.
Since then, the hatred.
Held the event, from indifferent about your name.
You no longer existed for her: she could not use you ...
I cried for you, your son, who did not know, and also for me, thinking my guilt.
Since that day I'm another woman ...
Then we came to Barcelona, ??and I spent months and months waiting for this moment.
A humble gesture of love beautified her face bruised by the blow. - We stayed in this house, which is a German electrician friend of the doctor.
When she was traveling, leaving me free, my rides were provided to the port.
Expect to see your vessel.
My eyes were sympathetic to the sea, thinking she saw something in all of them your person ... "One day will come", I said to myself.
You know that love is selfish.
I came to forget the death of your son ...
Besides, I'm not the real culprit: the others are.
This couch on which I dreamed so many times ...
Whenever a managed flowers in that vase, I had the illusion that you were going to get, whenever I embellished with a little toilet, I figured it was for you ...
Lived in your country, and it was natural that you arrive.
Suddenly, the paradise on his head went up in smoke.
We received the news I do not know how the prison gives Von Kramer and that you had been the informer.
The doctor scolded me, taking responsibility for everything.
For me I had known, and this was enough for me included in their indignation.
All our talk about your death, the most egregious deseándotela martyrdom.
He was frowning, as if they dominate a tenacious idea ...
Such After not listening. - Where is the doctor? ...
The tone of your question was disturbing.
He clenched his fists, looking around him as if he expected the emergence of the impressive lady.
His gesture was equal to that had accompanied the aggression against Freya. - Journey does not know where - said it -.
Will be in Madrid, San Sebastian or in Cadiz.
If I have dared to call you is because I am alone.
And recounted his life in this retreat.
He refrained from ordering any work: she herself running around, avoiding intermediaries.
What happened to Von Kramer had made her wary and suspicious, and when needed Auxiliary only admitted to his compatriots living in Barcelona.
A fierce and determined band had gathered around her.
They were refugees from of South American republics, parasites or coastal cities Rovers the jungles of the interior.
In front of them, like the doctor's briefcases, included Karl, the clerk that Ferragut had seen in the big house in the neighborhood of Chiaia.
This man, notwithstanding his mellow side, had in its history various crimes.
Was a worthy group of adventurers foreman fired up by patriotic enthusiasm that met every afternoon in a coffee port.
Freya was sure working in the procurement of submarines in the Mediterranean Spanish.
Everyone knew the Ferragut captain in Marseille by the event and spoke of him with grim reluctance. - For they knew your arrival - continued -.
The captain returned to raise the shoulders with an expression of contempt. - Run away, I repeat! ...
The unexpected demand gave him a sense of wonder and outrage.
It was so absurd proposition, which the captain smiled in a grim way. - I'm in danger just like you - continued desperate accent Freya -.
I do not know is the danger that threatens me or what part will come, but guess what, I feel it on my head ...
I have too many secrets to abandon me, leaving me in peace, have agreed to delete: I'm sure it.
I read it in the eyes of who was my friend and protector ...
You can not leave me, Ulysses; You will not want my death.
The going now on the right track.
His revenge had been placed between adversaries Germany.
He regretted his former blindness, and was pleased with his new situation.
Did secret of his conduct served the Allies. - And so I want, so you have arranged this interview, you may agree with your friend Dr.
You want to hire a second time as an instrument of your spying stupid. "Captain Ferragut is a fool in love - you have said -.
You only have to make an appeal her knight ... "And you want to live with me, maybe accompany me on trips, keep my existence, to reveal my secrets to your compatriots and I appear again as a traitor.
He raised one arm and one foot, was to strike and crush the kneeling woman.
Was afraid of his own: the saw to a new light and inspired him with horror.
His way of looking at things had changed dramatically.
The tormented remorse at the thought of what he had done.
Was taking place in your consciousness the healthy transformation of repentant women who were great sinners before.
Even enjoyed the consolation of faith patriotic bloody and ferocious enraged the doctor and his men.
For her there was no longer German or English, or French, there were only men: men with mothers, wives, daughters, and her woman's soul was horrified at the thought in the fighting and bloodshed.
The first had experienced remorse to learn of the death of the son of Ferragut. - Take me with you - repeated -.
If you do not get me out of my world, I will not know how to get out of it ...
In recent years I have held the doctor, I do not know the way to earn my life and I am accustomed to living well.
Misery inspires me more fear than death.
You keep me; you accept what you want me, I'll be your servant.
In a vessel should be required care and good order of a woman ...
The life I close the door: I'm alone.
The captain smiled a cruel irony. - I guess your smile.
I know what you tell me ...
I can sell you believe without doubt that this has been my previous life.
you're wrong, no good at that.
We must have a predisposition special, a talent for faking what you feel ...
Bitter life of men when I am not interested, I am his adversary, hatred, and flee from me.
But the sailor stretched cruelly mocking smile. - Lies - said again -.
As if suddenly a vibrant new force, she stood up.
His face was at the height Ferragut's eyes.
This saw his left temple with the torn skin, hit the spot stretched around a red and swollen eye.
Contemplating his barbarous work, returned to haunt him remorse. - Listen, Ulysses, you do not know my real existence.
I have always lied, I have escaped to all your inquiries at our happy time.
Now I must tell the truth, ultimate truth, as if he were to die.
When The meet will be less cruel.
But his listener wanted to hear.
Neither my name is Freya Talberg.
This is my nom de guerre, my name adventures.
Talberg was the teacher whom he accompanied to the Andes and neither was my husband ...
My real name is Beatriz ...
My mother was Italian, a Florentine, my father was from Trieste.
This revelation did not interest Ferragut. - A lie more! - He said -.
The woman was desperate.
The captain gave him to understand with an air unmoved the futility of these extremes.
While telling the truth, not believe it.
Several of the parent business casual is allowed to continue existence of poverty shiny and expensive
