They urged their danger and Aragon discredit the name if you do not give aid, subjects who had made such an illustrious and so great.
Given the manifest, the Venice Bailio others gave reason to the Emperor of the Embassy, ??and wanting to try some agreement could not be Finally, being so offended the spirits, and any word and faith as doubtful, and thus had resentatives for parts suitable for a war declared safe a bad peace, that where lack of faith, the name of peace is more concerning pretext and betrayals.
Replied the Emperor, that what happened against the Catalans and Aragonese had not been made by his order, and thus, was not giving satisfaction, it remains true that shortly before he ordered the killing of Fernando Aones the Admiral, and all the Catalans and Aragonese, who were found in Constantinople, which had come with four galleys accompanying Caesar's wife Mary, his mother and brothers, even Montaner Tighten the fact, he says that the very day they executed the killings.
Asked the Ambassadors give them security for his return to Gallipoli; fuel then granted them a commissioner to deal is left to Rodesto, thirty miles away from Constantinople, and order of the commissioner who accompanied them were imprisoned up to twenty and seven servants and sailors, and the butcher outlets instead made them public living rooms.
This evil I think you can excuse all the atrocities that were made in his satisfaction, because neither could get to be greater than with such fierce demonstration violating the universal right of the people, defended by human and divine laws, by inviolable custom of nations and barbaric policy.
This unfortunate finally had the finesse of a little noticed Capitan.
Worthy of praise is when there is security in the faith and word of the Prince enemy, but when is doubtful, I have to venture through ignorance.
Our King Emperor Charles V.
passed through Paris and put in the hands of its biggest rival, his confidence was so praised as the faith of Francis but if the Queen Leonor does not inform his brother Charles of what is talked outside confidence judged by recklessness and faith by deception, which clearly shows that praise, or blame by events, not reason.
Berenguer de Entenza was notable mistake in sending ambassadors Prince to whose faith and word could doubt, because he so perfidy and cruelty took the life of Roger and his men, to believe is that everything else does not keep faith, or to give Ambassadors however legitimate those who came from those he had as traitors, to more that having on the residents of Gallipoli executed as great cruelty, had feared another increased whenever the opportunity offered it.
Envianse ambassadors to Sicily, and leaves with his army Berenguer wins and Recrea City Calo ground due to John son of Andronico.
After it was learned at Gallipoli the death of their ambassadors, which can not be expensive words what changed the minds and hearts turned to vengeance, be so inhumanly abuse of which should be protected and defended.
Charge every day on Gallipoli people refresh, and squeezed the inside, but with the supplies to prevent them not to enter land, with weapons.
Berenguer de Entenza, and all Captains, with resolution they had taken not leave Greece without being avenged, prevented relief, and so we thought that would make their own weapons to King Frederic, and to swear allegiance to forcing more to his defense.
This was the main reason, though the King with more reasons consideration, and persuaded him most useful.
He received the oath of allegiance on behalf Don King Fadrique a gentleman of the house, called Garcilopez of Lobera, soldier that followed the banners of Berenguer, and together he was elected by its Ambassador to the king Ramon Marquet, city of Barcelona, ??Ramon Marquet illustrious son of sea captain, to what I presume, of the great King Don Pedro, and Ramon de Copons, to be a witness of the oath loyalty they had paid into the hands of Garcilopez of Lobera, and give him long-term relationship state in which they were, that if his memory had its services, will remember them Please, since they not only interested in them, but their increase and greatness, to warn the door that opened them to occupy the Eastern Empire, and to summon up his revenge and despair, because they were already risky.
They cut the three ambassadors to Sicily, that people left with some hope that Don Frederic socorrería them for always, although very thin, animate and encourage much needed.
The Infante Don Sancho to the departure of these messengers offered not only to follow and accompany them on the day Berenguer I had prepared, but help them with their ten galleys until they knew the mind and will del Rey.
Entenza on behalf of all accepted the offer, and thanked the Prince for having taken as honest resolution, worthy of a son of the house of Aragon.
With this hurried Berenguer departure, and sailed the people, but while he wanted out, he changed his mind Don Sancho, Forgot a word which shortly before had given, and miss the same honor, and reputation; causing all kinds of novelty, see in such a short distance take as many found resolutions, without being able to offer for the shortness of time, new accidents, you might require.
And if there could be of such quality that they require to break words given to both the foundation and reason, you can not find out, what the ancients did not leave written because he could move the infant to take decision as to discredit him, but therefore said unto Berenguer when asked to fulfill his word, which was only say, so met his brother's service, one can assume that warned the Prince, who had Andronico and peace between Don Frederic, and without expressing his order had not occupy their galleys injury of a friend Prince.
This it seems to me that would not apologize to Infante stay, when he had not offered, but pledged his word, and seeing the best abuse vassals and subjects of the King, his brother was larger decrease ignorance and failure to assist and help them, because they Andronico, slaying the Catalans and Aragonese, who were in his empire, broke the peace first.
Berenguer with regret that due, as he refers in his relationship that sent Rey Don Jaime II.
de Aragon, said as he departed, when their pleas and reasons could not stop, that the Prince was as he pleased and not as a son of his father.
Not lose our own soul with the departure of Don Sancho, or be homeless as hard they did change his mind.
Berenguer de Entenza embarked in five galleries, two sticks, rowing boats and sixteen, eight hundred infants, fifty horses, and left Gallipoli around the island of Marmora call Propontis old.
Came to her, threw his people on the ground, and sacked most of their villages, slaughtering its inhabitants, sparing neither age nor sex, destroying and burning the could be of some benefit and convenience, because as the company was the first executed after so many grievances, but was given to vengeance than greed.
With the same alacrity and rigor Berenguer became the coasts of Thrace, and continuing the good events after ships of some dams, rushed to recess, large and wealthy city, and with little loss of his men forcibly entered it.
Ejecutóse the vanquished the rigor used to, and collected ships and galleys to the most lucid and rich prey, delivered to the violence of fire buildings, because so insensitive and dumb things they wanted to be witnesses and memory of revenge.
Andronico took notice of the loss of recess, in time to judge the few Catalans fled around Sicily, and to address the damage to the entire Berenguer that shore of the sea, which the Greeks called Natura, ordered his son Calo John Despot, with four hundred horsemen, and infantry that could collect was opposed to Berenguer and the fact is preventing you from people on the ground.
Lillie Bridge beside Calo knew that Juan Berenguer permission, and the number and quality of their forces, and although the former is judged by much lower in the second he thought he was ahead of his enemy, and so resolved in fact its people land, and get to Calo John, who warned tambiem by their brokers, as their Berenguer people had set foot on land, hasten the road, fearing that not to withdraw because No one could believe that rich and full of debris of our venture but would like labor.
They came with one mind to envestida squads, and was soon showed clearly that the value is what gives the victories, not the crowd, because our winners were still few, and the Greeks broken and their throats cut, are many.
John Calo escaped with his life, and arrived at Constantinople destroyed.
Andronico did take up arms to people, because everyone was on Gallipoli war, and feared that Berenguer not undertaken the City.
This rotation was given the last day of May 1304.
They were so quick these victories, and achieved in so many parts, and as to time, the Greeks judged by increased our forces, and was not Berenguer one to harm them, but many.
Prison Berenguer de Entenza with considerable loss of their own.
With so happy beginning and had our arms against the Greeks ruled by Berenguer of Entenza, seemed to pass on, and rely on luck and favorable weather, with a view and finish off a victory the beginning of another.
Resolved to undertake our ships that were encountered in the ports and shores of Constantinople, and burn their shipyards, companies most difficult name.
Sailed to implement its determination on the beach between PACTI and Gano out with good weather, but at dawn, revealing the candles Gallipoli, scoured views on what should be done, looking to cut back to Gallipoli, and all got into conformity land, and put it as close to the bows they could, the sterns of the sea, because those were not adorned the prows of artillery, the best defense was the top of the sterns.
Took up arms, and either waited Misses what eighteen galleys try, who came to take over ours.
These ten and eight were of Genoese galleys, which ordinarily navigated those waters, because their value or greed led them to the most remote of the country, as the Catalans of the time.
Recognized both sides, the Genoese were the first to greet them with that our men laid down their arms, and as friends and allies were reported and discussed.
Warned then the Genoese by what they heard talk of the events, which had been Berenguer much profit that they would, and taste that would give the Emperor Andronicus and the Greeks, if seized Berenguer, and I tomasen their galleys.
And judging by minor inconvenience break his faith and word, to stop the hands is so important and rich prey, sent to invited to Berenguer de Entenza, giving word from the Lordship would do them no wrong, nor any outrage, which came to honor her Captain, which deal with some important business them all.
This Berenguer without warning in the past, and damage their trust him had set, he went to the Captain, where Eduardo de Oria with many other knights received him and cherished.
Ate and dined together with great pleasure and friendship, as it was Berenguer to sleep with the Captain, continuing until late some talks on account of its conservation.
In the morning when he wanted to return to his gallery, Eduardo de Oria him prisoner and disarmed, and other Genovese did the same with the others who accompanied him and took eighteen galleys on our unnoticed and neglected.
