We acusábamos to Nanar as Parsondes had accused him before, but our voice, less authoritative than yours, did not touch the heart Art, or decided to topple him Nanar, and more moderated put another King in Babylon.
Nanar was more skeptical and libertine Sardanapalus, Babylon and was worshiped under another god Milita and interest, or as it were, to Venus.
In vain my comrades and I preached corruption.
The common people and nobility we laughed in his face.
We vengábamos to talk about the holy life of Parsondes and put in contrast to the life they carried.
So things were going, when Art called me early morning early to his presence. - There is hope, he said, that Parsondes still alive, but if dead, it is necessary to avenge and punish her killer, which can not be other than King Nanar. - Your wisdom, sir, I said, is like the light, which penetrates and find out.
Allow me to be the instrument of your revenge, and save my dear teacher the captivity in which, if not dead, is.
The King told me that to this end had called me, and immediately prepare to leave with me the support due, and his strict orders to answer me with your Nanar life of the holy man, or his release.
That same day, which was one of the hottest of summer, I went to Susa in a chariot Arab drawn by four horses.
A skilled driver was addressed, and two Ethiopian slaves also accompanied me in the car, with air on one with an ostrich feather fan, and holding the other on rich ivory varal, neatly styled, the wide umbrella silk.
Four riders, all quivers, bows and arrows, clothing and covered mesh head with individual bronze helmets, gleaming colors Niel, I followed and gave me greater authority and decorum.
Six scouts, mounted zebra striped and lightning-fast, went before me, to advertise in the various populations.
Victuals and drink that we brought to supplement the shortcomings of the way, came on the backs of twenty powerful elephants.
Not to be too wordy, not referring here minutely the events of my trip.
Suffice to know that the tenth day we discovered in the distance the huge walls of Babylon, Nebuchadnezzar work and Nitocris.
They were thirty yards in thickness, surrounding the city, forming a zone twenty-two leagues of circumnavigation, and rose, at the lowest hundred and twenty yards above the earth as much as the bells of the cathedrals now.
Crowned by a tuft of green walls.
On the walls and gardens stood out some buildings such as royal palaces, the temple of Belus and the famous tower of Nimrod, which consisted eight-story, more than two hundred yards high first.
From the top of this tower, it seemed to touch the sky, presumed to treat the gods sages, secret intelligences or spirits that move the stars.
Although still far apart, and confusedly, thought and to perceive the colossal figures carved and painted on exterior walls of palaces and temples, those man-headed bulls and men with head lion, those heroes and those warriors, tight girdles kidneys, that is Oliba Oala and fell in love.
The sun reflected from the East on the gigantic buildings and huge hundred gates of the city, which were of gilt bronze.
The Euphrates and Tigris, winding and also injured by lightning the sun shimmered in waves, resembled two gold ribbons melt forming a loop.
Suddenly we saw up in the broad, fertile plain between the orchards, gardens and green woods, where it was open the road, a white cloud which went bigger.
Then we saw a dark stain that moving towards us.
Soon after came at a run one of my scouts told me that Nanar approached to greet me with large party.
In this dark spot had enlarged exceedingly, and began to hear distinctly the sound of musical instruments, the neighing of horses and the clatter of weapons.
We note, finally, the glow of gold and silver, luxury clothes and the magnificence of those who came to greet us.
So that the driver did goad the horses, and soon I was near the King Nanar that palanquí came in a magnificent bamboo, sandalwood, pearl and sustained by twelve handsome young men.
The King and I got out of the palanquin of the car, and we welcome and embrace each other with mutual cordiality.
King's robe was of cloth of gold, embroidered with multicolored silk.
The embroidery is represented all the flowers of the field and every bird of the air and all the stars of the ether.
Wearing King no less wonderful a tiara, bangles and bracelets, and earrings two round pearls each size of a quail egg.
Her hair fell in curls over the back perfumed, and his beard was menudísimos curls, artistic and symmetrically arranged.
Despite my severely, I could not but admire the fineness of the King Nanar, and confessed, back in myself, that was the most comm'il faut that I had tried in my life.
The King I stayed in his palace, I gave lavish parties, and I was distracted in such a way that almost made me forget the object of my mission.
We had a concert and a dance, and a dinner style that gave Baltasar many years later.
I did not dare to ask King what he had done in Parsondes.
I did not understand that a man so excellent, that he entertained and regaled guests with elegance and courtesy that, had been killed or had in hard captivity of my dear teacher.
Finally, one night I plucked up all my restraint and resolve, and told Nanar, on behalf the King my master, who at the time was going to say where was the virtuoso Parsondes if not want to lose the kingdom and life.
Nanar, instead of answering, he brought the point to all cantatrice the Bayadere and was in the palace: it is understood that off-campus, harem or whatever you call, reserved for their wives.
The Milita such priestesses moved from nine hundred, and were the most beautiful and skillful that could hardly be found in all Asia.
The girls came dancing, singing and playing flute, finger cymbals and harps, it was a matter of taste to see them and hear them.
Nanar he said, and here was the more my amazement: - Behold the holy Parsondes among these women.
Parsondes, come here and greet your former student.
Went out from the center of that crowd one female, were it not for the beard, had could be confused with women.
He wore black painted eyebrows, eyelids blue, in order to shine more eyes and cheeks covered with lipstick.
It was all perfumed her dress was almost as rich as the King, his effeminate and languid gait, his ears hung exquisite earrings, from his throat a necklace of pearls encircled her forehead a wreath of flowers.
It was the same Parsondes, who threw her arms around his neck. - I am, I said, well other than he was before.
Return, if you want to Susa, but do not say I live it, that wizards do not be offended, and to continue taking a recent example of holiness to appeal.
Nanar avenged my rough and unkempt making me a prisoner under and sending me soaping and scrubbing with a scouring pad.
After washing my continued and perfuming twice a day, giving me a hitch, and forcing me to be with all these bright young ladies, where I ended up forgetting my Zoroaster and austere preaching, and convinced that in this life time we must have the best possible without engaging in the lives of others.
Care Agenos kill the donkey, and none more so than who mixes in censoring the vices of others, if only it lacks the opportunity to into them, or when, if they have not fallen, it must be out of ignorance, bad taste and rustiqueza.
I was desperate and angry to see him become a bon vivant, with their points and collar of shameless rascal, but to avoid scandalous gossip, I decided to advise the school of wizards to continue arguing that Parsondes had risen to the empyrean, and to continue venerating his image, without discovering never before flatly denying that he lived with Parsondes the dancers of Babylon in the palace of Nanar.
In this awoke from my dream and I turned to find my poor house of this court. - I think, added our friend to finish his story, with less wealth and less cost can the day Nanar seduce upbraideth Parsondes that immorality and vices, moved, not charity, but of envy.
THE PREHISTORIC BERMEJINO OR BLUE SALAMANDER I I've always been fond of science.
Unfortunately or Fortunately it happens to me something very singular.
I like science inversely delas truths they are showing exactly.
It is the truth that appeals to me, but the effort of speech, of subtlety and imagination which is used to discover the truth, but undetected.
Once discovered truth, well proven and patent, usually leave me cold.
Thus, a gallant young man, when you go down the street in pursuit of a woman whose walk gracefully and whose waist you excited, then come on, the look at his face and sees that it is old, or one-eyed, or have nosed monkey.
It quiet in their possession and enjoyment would be silly.
What matters is knowing enough to appear or be discerned the mystery, and never enough for an explanation or clarification.
Thus curiosity is aroused, comes alive fantasy and make up theories, dogmas and other witticisms, entertain and comfort us during our earthly existence, all of which would lack, being a thousand times more unhappy pure rude if we were not present the mystery, or if we managed to unravel a pure business his deep and true meaning.
Among these inexact sciences, which so delight me, there is a very in vogue now, which is subject my favorite.
I speak of prehistory.
I, not knowing whether I am right, divided into two parts this science.
One that I would call geological prehistory, is based on the discovery of skulls, cops, arrows and spears, stew and other gadgets, involving scholars who are of an age very remote, called stone.
And all civilization born in Egypt, and the Acadia in the center of Asia, and comes from India, and a continent called Lemuria, which sank in the deep sea, the South, between Africa and Asia, and from another continent, that between Europe and America and was called Atlantis.
On the primitive language, as well as the primitive civilization, is still disputed.
Up it was a dispute over whether or were several languages: that is, whether the men began to spread around the world Alal, or say, still speechless, and in flocks, and then were inventing different languages ??in different places, or whether they spoke before the dispersion and all a single language.
My itching to browse induce me to read how many new books come out on this subject which are not few, and the more wrong-headed they are, things looks the multitude of the timid, the more I enjoy these books.
In recent days the books I read are contrary to the Aryans, the Egyptians, of the Semites and other nations and castes, that went by the civilizing degree superior.
If the old books have argued that civilization, such as sunlight, spread from East to West, these new books claim that spread in the opposite direction from West to East.
All knowledge of the Magi from Iran and from Shinar, from the Brahmins the banks of the Ganges, the priests of Isis and Osiris, of the initiated in Samothrace and the towns of Phoenicia and Phrygia, is worth nothing compared to the knowledge of certain Gauls primitive light whose center was in a prehistoric Paris.
The Gauls and their bards and druids, poets and priests taught him everything but his own, science and reflection was not confusing and I remember full of science possessed, in the center of fertile and beautiful country now called France, before the coming of the Celts, men more primitive and excellent call or protoscitas Hyperborean.
But what language they spoke these protoscitas or Hyperborean, the center and focus of civilization was a Paris of the past six or seven thousand years at least?
Spoke the language Euskara, Basque populace.
Thus, the arimaspes, who had one eye and looked the sky, astronomers were then, they already knew the telescope, and the arrow that Abaris was riding from one end to another of the earth, was the balloon or a device to fly and compass direction, etc.., etc., etc.
It is understood that the time of the arimaspes and the decadence Abaris are Hyperborean civilization.
Say, however, which I loved for two reasons.
And the second reason, that I have friends in Gipuzkoa, which shall rejoice much if it is proved that their language and caste were instrumental that he used to kill Providence barbarism, illuminating the world and indoctrinate other nations.
Joaquin Irizar and Moya, who has written remarkable works on the Basque language, throwing trip the Erros, Larramendis and Astarloas!
Something he will use the brand-new inventions give more force to your system, arranged so that fit and fit in with the most perfect Catholic orthodoxy.
Anyway, for me it is clear that before the Celts penetrated into Spain, the Phoenicians, the Greeks and other nations, was in Spain a civilized people, we call the Iberians.
These people spread across our peninsula, and even had colonies in Sardinia, Italy and elsewhere, as William Humboldt has shown.
Were Basque and spoke the language Euskara.
The most cultured nation and state and illustrious among them was the republic of turdetanos, who, according to the testimony of Strabo, had laws and cute lyrics and poems in verse, had six thousand years old.
However, the alphabets and Turdetano Celtiberian that reconstructed and publishes Don Luis José Velázquez, are very modern compared to the date cited above.
These scripts are a reflection of the Phoenician or Greek, and it should be assumed therefore, that before coming to Spain Greeks and Phoenicians, had turdetanos its own alphabet, which they wrote their poems and other works.
In my view, Mr.
Manuel de Gongora y Martinez has had the glory of discovering the alphabet.
See inscriptions Antiques Osiris in prehistoric Andalucía, de la Cueva of signs and other caves and hiding places, some of which are near the site of Villabermeja, a place that I've tried to make famous as its most conspicuous inhabitant D.
Within walking distance there is a site Villabermeja that the Laderon last name, where every day discovered remains and relics of an ancient and flourishing city.
The learned and sagacious antique D.
Aureliano Fernandez War there was evidence Favència, time of the Roman city that was called much earlier Vescio.
Don Juan Fresco, excited his curiosity and fueled his tireless activity, since the Mr.
Gongora, publishing in 1868 his Antiquities, put on the track, has been to seek Cave written signs and other landmarks that are near Vescio, and has found and assembled in much copy.
Emulate Champollion Figeac, Anquetil Duperron, Burnouf, Grotefend, Oppert and Lassen, my referral D.
Friend Juan Fresco believes he has decoded these primitive scrawl Iberian, such as those other wise, the hieroglyphs, cuneiform writing and other recesses.
I'm not trying to advocate here by the discovery of my namesake and countryman and demonstrate the obvious.
This we will do it in your day.
I will limit myself to relate a story that Don Juan Fresco says he read some entries similar to the Cave of the signs.
Understood letters, it seems that the other is flat, because the language is almost primitive Iberian Basque now.
I regret not give here the exact translation of the original text.
Don Juan Fresco did not want communicate it.
I will, therefore, breaks the narrative with explanations and comments interspersed that he has done.
Not otherwise be understood.
His father, widowed and very wealthy, the idolized.
Mutileder and Echeloría were pure Iberian breed, without any mixture of Celts and Phoenicians.
Their families, or better say his family, he was one of them, he boasted, not without reason, descent from the primitive Atlanteans who had migrated many centuries ago, when sank into the sea of ??Atlantis, and, going a long sea, had led Egypt culture, civilization long before the issue of Osiris, while others, known after the name of Hyperborean, landing in France, had spread the light and founded flourishing States, walking to the East to the mountains beyond Rifeas, and influencing, Finally, in the awakening to political life and cult of the Aryans and Semites.
In short, Echeloría and Mutileder were two illustrious and worthy of being on their merits.
Fall in love to each of the other and the other one.
Echeloría's father, who had nothing to dull, then noticed the girl's love and tried to kill him, because the cousin had no other assets to his passionate heart; but Echeloría was really in love, and the father, who at heart was a blessed, agreed and resigned after Mutileder aspired to be his son.
Both lovers swear eternal fidelity. "Rather die than be different," she said
