Luis de Santa María, including guards Monastery Yuste, list below that are potentates and kings. "Shortly after he joined two other Cenobites cited several godly men also wanted to devote himself to a life of seclusion and asceticism, among which stood out soon John (of Robledillo) and Andrew (Plasencia), whose names do not say the chronicles, designating only with the people they were born, and together dedicáronse to build their Cells on the land donated by Martin Sancho, which is now occupied by the Bakery, House Bishop and stables.
Those cells were at first very rough and small, which suited the purpose of the founders, who did not fail to continue to care also Chapel of the Savior and pray it daily. "Five years of rest, prayer and penance spent those lonely there, but towards the end of 1406 officers tithes they began to turn his attention to the Brothers of the Poor life, a name that had adopted the hermits established along the stream to Yuste.
Negábanse them to pay the contribution required of them, based on the scarcity of your garden products and artifacts, and, pressured by the officers, went to D.
Vicente Arias, Bishop of Plasencia, for exempting them from tithing.
The archbishop refused the application He immediately ordered and they paid everything they were required. "Troubled surprised as the Brothers of the poor life as pungent and unexpected resolution agreed to forward to Pope Benedict XIII a petition requesting permission to erect a chapel to St.
They finally came to the Eternal City, after a long and painful walking and begging, and arrojáronse at the feet of His Holiness, who not only gave them what they asked, but gave them a bull bells, bell, cemetery and licensed to celebrate Mass in solitude all the hermits that priests were .-- This provision took effect in 1407. "Outstanding was the joy they experienced and for which they were received in the two Yuste Boldly commissioners, who, two days after his arrival, he presented with the Bull to the Bishop of Plasencia, in order that ordered his execution.
Suffering Henry III, and explained to him their grievances, asking for protection against the Bishop of Plasencia.
Positive response to the two commissioners reached in the mind of that illustrious prince, who began, by dint of careful and restrained, by giving them a letter to the same prelate Arias, in which he begged him to return the goods to the Brothers the poor life and let them make use of the grant of the Pope
