In places, neither more nor less than in large populations, there are many gossips; but concurred on this occasion a thousand circumstances that prevented the slander is cebase so innocent in relationships and perverse interpreted.
The main causes of the talk at once, as the reason or pretext or appearance, of any love affair, particularly if they intended to marriage, did not show here.
Usually, a cause that will talk and gossip is the lover's desire, who would want to be told what is and even what is not, and sometimes pretends that conceals so contrary skill, rather discovered or even to suspect mysteries and adventures that perhaps not been achieved.
Women are also less keen on not everything is known, particularly when alleged and despise and outwit the suitors.
And many, when the suitors are highly respected and famous, even throwing to roll all respect, as long as the teasing abandoned rivals are, as they say, a quarter to a preacher, and calls for her to disclose its fragility and its affairs.
None of this was taking place between the Father and Dona Luz.
Manolita, with his talk, his poise and his jokes, was the organ most authoritative and resonant Villafría public opinion, and Dona Manolita, no longer having the slightest reason, but although he had not ever had consented to say anything in against Dona Luz, had drowned in their teasing voice of gossip more brazen.
The concept that the father had not paid in Villafría not to the point we spoke reeds were lifted.
Most, as you were not as fun and almost no understand him, he had all but forgotten, even if ever it was agreed to consider him as a saint, annoying, and nothing valetudinarian fun.
Man who not used, and rare exotic bird, for Voltaireans place, there would have been difficult someone would involve plotting for the restoration of the Inquisition and even children eating raw, but no one fit in the head could be flirtatious and have good fortune a man so pale, sickly, melancholic and forlorn.
For all these reasons, no one was malice, offending no one commented on how privacy and Dona Luz and coexistence of the Father, who, on the other side, where tried, they were, they spoke and still admired innocently, with the largest drop was within the small gathering, which nothing transcends, in which everything is explained Blessed, or better that is not explained, because not to D.
Anselmo and his daughter and son, or to D.
Acisclo, or for the priest D.
Miguel, required that any explanation.
The priest D.
Miguel, above all, and D.
