So it was no secret to his traveling companions, who came to California with the sole to effect its capture.
Perhaps as little sympathetic system or for such investigations Western willingness to take a joke any principle or sentiment that is displayed with excessive persistence, Mr Thomas's research on the subject awoke the mood of the passengers of the ship.
Privately Circulose including a free listing on this Carlos, addressed to Jailers and Guardian, and everyone remembered seeing Carlos in painful circumstances, but on behalf of my countrymen I must confess that, when it emerged that a large sum earmarked Thomas to justify the project, just quietly followed the jokes, and nothing was said, while he could hear, he was able to grieve the heart of a father, or to endanger the benefit they could expect the pranksters of all stripes.
His background, as he himself informed a day at the table, denoting a temperament practical, even in the midst of his escapades.
Perhaps this was the practical temperament that sustained him in his seemingly fruitless inquiry.
No possessed signs of the whereabouts of his fugitive son, much less evidence of its existence.
With the confusing and vague memory of a boy of twelve years, waiting now identify adult man.
What is never said how they got away with it.
There are two versions Event.
Thomas gave up looking for her son among the number of live and was devoted to examining the cemetery and carefully inspect the cold gravestones cemeteries.
A day care visited the isolated mountain top gloomy, quite dry and in its original isolation, and seems even drier by whitish marbles that San Francisco granted asylum to those who were its citizens, and protects them a furious wind and persistent, which is determined to spread their remains, held under the shifting sand seems to refuse to shelter them.
Against the wind, the old one will oppose no less fierce and tenacious.
All day spent with his head hard and gray, covered by a high hat mourning, sunk up to their ears, reading aloud the funerary inscriptions.
The Citation Scriptures liked and was happy to corroborate them with a Bible handbook. - That one is the psalms - said one day to a nearby undertaker.
The silent questioned.
Upon returning from the front to the city, began to shine before it lights, and a strong wind, the fog was sensitive, and impelled him forward, and as placed in ambush attacked him annoying from the deserted streets of the suburbs.
In one of these bends otherwise undefined and no less evil, fell upon him with blasphemy, facing a gun and requiring the money or your life.
The fierce old man's hand slipped from the neck to the arm of his prisoner, but not reduce the pressure under which he had seized. - Carlos Thomas, come with me - he said then.
She took her captive and the hotel he was staying.
However, neither the appearance of the manners of the young justified a keen observer the previous narrative.
Serious, reserved and dignified, and addicted body and soul to his newfound father, accepted the benefits and responsibilities of their new status with a certain air of formality, which resembled that needed to society of San Francisco and she threw him.
Some wanted to dismiss this quality as a tendency to "sing psalms", others saw in it the qualities inherited from the father, and were ready to prophesy for the child it takes age, but everyone agreed that it was compatible with the habits of doing money, in which father and son had agreed in a unique way.
And yet, the old man appeared who was not happy.
Perhaps because the realization of their wishes he had left without a practical mission, perhaps, and this is most likely, had little love for the son he had so fortunately recovered.
The obedience required of him, he was willingly granted, the conversion that had his whole soul was full, and yet, none of this will satisfy his spirit.
There complied with all requirements of their religious duty to redeem his son, and yet, it seemed that something was missing his brilliant action.
In such a doubt, the parable of leyose Prodigal Son, who had never lost sight of in their pilgrimage, and noted that there omitted the final feast of reconciliation.
There seemed to be offered anything better than the desired quality the formal sacrament between him and his son so that a year after onset Charles, was prepared to give a sumptuous feast. - Gather, call everyone, Carlos - he said solemnly, - to let everyone know that I have out of the depths of iniquity and the company of pigs and women lost and Send them to eat, drink and rejoice.
I do not know if the old man had for this other reason, not analyzed yet.
The beautiful house that had built on the sandy hills, seemed lonely sometimes and sad.
Often caught himself trying to rebuild with serious features Carlos those of one boy whose vague recollection served him well in the past and today both worried.
We imagined that this was a sign that old age is approaching and with it a new children.
One day in her ceremonial hall gave face to face with a child of one of the servants, who ventured to get there, and wanted to take her in his arms: but the boy fled to his sullen and wrinkled face.
For all this, it seemed very appropriate to gather at home the good society San Francisco, and between that exposure of young girls choose the partner of his son.
Then have a grandson, a child who raise from the beginning and who would love, as no Carlos loved.
Distinguished society that came equipped with animation that exuberance, joy and verve, without restraint or respect for host, that most distributed as generous as possible, mainly at the expense of the festivities.
Tibet, endowed by nature with witty humor and also excited by the bright eyes of the girls Jonnes, behaved in a manner that attracted the serious eyes of Don Carlos Thomas, who approached him, saying almost in his ear: - It seems that you feel bad, Mr.
Around here, if you like, the room is heated and perhaps to be harmful.
Needless to say, only a part of this speech was noticeable to society and the rest reported Mr Tibet, feeling in his soul that his sudden illness will deprived of what the most eccentric of the girls Jonnes, christened "the bouquet end of the party ', and I will refer.
The event was saved for the final dinner.
Thomas was probably blind eye to the disorderly conduct of young people, absorbed in meditation dramatic effect was in incubation.
At the time of getting the cloth, stood up and knocked on the table solemnly.
Among girls Jonnes, began a little cough which infected all that side of the table.
Carlos Thomas, from one end of it, looked up with tender expectation. - Going to sing a hymn. - Going to pray. - Silence!
The laughter stopped abruptly. - See him now, Carlos Thomas, arise!
Carlos Thomas obeyed. - Today a year ago and can now contemplate.
In truth, the prodigal son was a beautiful, standing there with his severe suit fashion.
A repentant prodigal, with sad eyes and obediently turned to look hard and nasty the author of his days.
A man of anger and .--(« grudge Amen "- said most of the Jonnes).
But, praise God, I escaped from my own cholera.
A subcoro of "no, no, by the girls, and a" come the watchword "for the lieutenant, Coxe, of the sloop of war the United States, The Terror, served response. - "Knock and it shall be opened." And when I discovered the error of my way and the preciousness of grace - continued Mr.
I searched land and sea not faint.
I did not expect him to come to me, which might have done, to justify myself the book of books in hand, but I looked him in the mud, including pigs, y. .. (The end of the sentence was lost by the friction of the dresses of the ladies to retire).
Works Brothers in Christ, is my motto, "know them by their works" and there are mine, everyone can judge the light of day.
And in saying this, Mr Thomas, gesticulating and making strange faces, staring towards an open door to the terrace was crowded with onlookers little raised and turned now the scene of an infernal tumult.
Amid the noise, ever increasingly, a man miserably dressed and drunk as a soup, made his way through between those who opposed him, and entered the room with no way secure.
The sharp contrast between the fog and the darkness outside and the glare and heat inside dazzled him, so in his stupor he took off his battered hat and passed one or two times before his eyes, as he maintained, although with little security, against the back of a couch.
anywhere, but let us, go away and leave us in peace.
But before he could drink the miserable, old, white with rage, rushed on the intruder, and grabbing it with his powerful arms and dragging it through the group of frightened diners around them, reached the door wide open by the servants, when Carlos Thomas exclaimed, with an anguished cry: - Stop!
Through the door wide open, the fog and the wind carried inside a cold snap. - What does this - he asked, turning to Charles her angry face. - Nothing!
For the love of God, do not you do that.
In the tone of the voice of the young, or perhaps contact fighting between their miserable powerful arms, he had a something indefinable and strange.
Anyway, a confusing terror and indefinable seized the old man's heart, which he whispered wild: - Who is this guy?
I say to you, I ...
I pray ...
tell me who this man.
Two people, just heard the answer that came out, weak and broken, lips Charles Thomas - IS YOUR CHILD. * * * * * * * The next day, when the sun had passed the barren sand hills, the guests had disappeared from the festive halls of Mr.
The name I gave that night was the first thing that came to mind, just a name whom I thought dead, the companion of my life dissolute libertine.
And when I say who was opened for the first time I saw before me a new life ...
yes, I was hungry, naked and without appeal, if he steal his pocket, I felt lonely in the world, unhappy and desperate, when I wanted to steal the tenderness of a father in pain.
From their sumptuous bed, the prodigal son recovered snoring confidently. - I had no father could claim.
He stood up and stood before the old. - No matter I stand between your child and inheritance.
I depart today from this place ever return.
Sea Goodbye And he turned to leave.
But when it came to the door, fell suddenly, and raising both hands the grizzled old man's head, kissed a few more times with effusion. - Carlos!
The old man sat up trembling and swaying weakly ran to the door.
For it came the tumult of a great city that wakes up, and among this crowd the footsteps of the prodigal son who were lost in the distance, forever.
MAGDALENA The car slid painfully down the narrow road, giving frequent shocks.
In Inside were seven people who had not taken off the lips from one of those jumps came to leave without finishing the final round of court poetry, my honorable neighbor.
Man high sitting next to him, slept with his arm hanging past the belt, and supported the head it was like a soft object, indefinable, it seemed that it had hanged to himself, and he had cut the rope that had been instrumental.
On the seat later, the French lady dozing too, keeping an attitude of studied restraint, view was put in the position of the dropped handkerchief on his face half hidden ruddy face.
Another lady from Virginia City, traveling with her husband, lay in a corner, wrapped in a sea of ??ribbons, fur and coats completely flooded him.
No perceived noise but the grating of the wheels and the rain beating the imperial when suddenly the coach stopped, and heard voices coming up confused us.
The driver held a live conversation with someone on the road, we thought dialogue unflattering should be judged by the words in the midst of the furious wind blowing we saw, "dragged bridge ',' flooded road," "step impossible and the like.
The most absolute silence reigned for a moment, then launched a mysterious voice from the road this advice: - Test at home in Magdalena.
By giving the vehicle a sharp turn, we could glimpse the front horses, and then a rider who faded into the mist.
The Judge, our authority, said he did not remember that name, and that he knew the entire country, the Canadian traveler would have thought that Magdalena inn, but all I really knew was that the floodwaters had cut us the way to the front and back, and that Magdalene was saving our table.
For space of ten minutes we were flooded by a winding road, barely wide for diligence, and stopped in front of a barred gate and aforrada, set to a large wall about six feet tall.
This was, without doubt, the home of Magdalena.
