The old caught him by the left ear and gave him three or four pulls hard.
The dog a howl of pain.
Then he took the other, and many other tugs.
More and more still sad howl.
Fulfilled his duties with the law of the land, shrank mastiff back to the table in the barn, but not releasing it under some curses and blasphemies.
This scene was repeated a few times a day, provided that any person suspected as now arrived for purposes hostile to the rectory.
El Cuco deplored in their hearts that had not shaved best ears. - Afternoon, D.
Fr Gil, who was not happening as much, answered very politely and asked D.
Restituto. - The priest must be toward the barn.
Come in, D.
I'll call him. - No need: I will fetch it myself. "The barn is here? ... - Yes, sir, here behind the house.
He turned it all the priest, went a few steps in a dirty alley, and found a miserable factory made of uncut stones from the river only, with a rickety door.
It was locked, and nobody was there before.
Going to leave that place and come back to home behind the barn when he heard the sound of voices.
He went thither, and found, in fact, Don Restituto, not a little surprised the suit and the situation in which he appeared.
The old priest was wearing corduroy trousers wide, patched, as they spend the peasants through the land, wore on her feet clogs with socks of coarse cloth, shiny coat through use, and spinning linen shirt he loves, without collar or anything like it.
Was the costume of a peasant, without removing it or put anything.
Fr Gil was shocked by that figure, and more astonished, when he warned the occupation that the pastor was delivered.
I was, kneeling on one knee on the ground, skinning a calf.
He helped in the operation servant.
The animal had spread between the two, most raw it now.
He turned his head D.
Restituto steps, feeling, and being with young fellow stood up and came toward him with bloody hands clutching a huge knife. - What miracle is this, man?
Restituto was you, familiar to all young clerics he from first interview.
When Gil had explained the reason for his trip, showed some surprise, but was quick to respond: - Well, well.
But the young man expressed a desire to go to church. - To the church? - Said in surprise.
Among them was customary confession at home .-- All right.
Would to God that had taken more!
And above all, would have had time pluguiérale to wash.
For the theologian dismissed him a whiff of cutting down slaughterhouse.
He felt suffocated for that foul smell; acudíanle some worries and sweats that were about several to deprive of sense sometimes.
Don Restituto felt great satisfaction in order to get shine your old battery theological propositions.
Fr Gil received absolution, promising not to be insane or an idiot, so don judged Restituto who doubted the truths revealed by angelic ministry.
Shortly after kissing the hand not well purged from the blood of the bullock, and when he had risen to praying before an altar of repentance, our priest fell ill.
Had to leave immediately from the church, seized with violent nausea.
The priest brought him home, and tried to cure him with a cup of sage, the supreme remedy used against all the ailments that afflict mankind, but his young companion, I knew what to expect about your condition, obstinately refused all medication.
The pastor then went on to show the garden, in which encryption was so proud and in depth of theological knowledge.
It was full of fruit trees and vegetables.
There was not a flower or ornamental shrub.
From there they went to a vast lawn, where he had a few raising operators wall.
Restituto began giving instructions, adopted a number of things failed other, forgetting all about his guest.
One of the workers took him to the mill had stopped because the son of Cosimo had deviated above the water to dry the bed of the creek and catch eels.
Restituto was furious and announced plans Cosme to sue and ask for damages and losses.
Of it is not mocked; was determined to make his property was respected.
From there he ran into the cornfields, and the pastor was a fellow with extreme joy the great state of plants.
The water had come just in time, but most of the water was due to the large quantity of fertilizer had missed. - You say: where you can make D.
Restituto much manure to a land like this, fifteen days of oxen?
In every parish, as you You know, there are a lot of wretches, to whom it is not possible for them out one quarter or baptisms or marriage or anything.
However, these calamities forced them living to take from time to time outside their homes (commonly pens) a good amount of dry leaf or gorse.
With water and the passage of pedestrians and cattle manure is crossing becomes after some time pass.
From there they jumped to an inheritance of meadow.
Restituto, as it was, let out a sharp, mocking laugh, he did raise his head to his young companion and look at him curiosity. - This is the meadow below the mill ...
the meadow below the mill, you already know ...
Do not you know the history of this field?
I had, and nobody in the parish dared to denounce him.
But here was a rich landlord called Lino (already busted, thank God, last year), and that he was eager Lino the meadow.
At the end gave the breath in the administration, keeping the hand, not wanting to be wrong with me, and brought it to auction.
Two days before done, came here the very hypocritical and I said, 'Father, I do stand in the meadow below the mill, but if you I want to stay home. "The rascal probe for the amount I planned to offer. "No, I do not want, you can top it when you like," I replied.
The man, seeing that I went to auction, and knowing that any neighbor was in a position to throw, they were promised very happy.
Lancia Y sent to his cousin.
But this road trip we went to of rocks, and spoke highly relevant, represents sin incurred goods topping of the Church, I promised him rent the pasture and put him forty dollars in hand.
It was a Lancia, finished him off and handed it to me to me in the next breath ...
He did not do ten thousand.
As the sun went down, after having taught a winery, he had built for cider, D.
Restituto led back to his penitent home and invited him to chocolate.
Refused all treat and started Peñascosa way.
Out and understanding their properties and the continent reflective Peñascosa toilets that his heart was seized with serious thoughts, D.
Restituto wanted to return to the load though he seemed well established that all doubts of his companion were only that pumps soap, which breaks with a blow anyone who has even hailed Sacred Theology. - You look out, dear - he said with unlimited protection, - the truths of faith are contrary to reason, but above it.
The opposite of truth, what is?
The things we know by divine revelation can not be contrary to natural knowledge, because the natural knowledge also comes from God, because God is the author of our nature.
Because the ratio exceeds one thing should not be considered as contrary to it.
Thus says San Augustine as truth that which is shown by the holy books, is the Old, New Testament is in any way may find otherwise.
The human mind can, of course, aware of the existence of God, our intelligence course in the way of this life begins his knowledge of the meaning, and therefore, the things that do not fall under the senses can not perceive it as by the senses can colleagues their knowledge ...
The sea was a stain blue yonder.
The two priests had crossed the main building, where women sat at the front door, gave them a good afternoon and went to kiss children hand.
In the region were open, slightly undulating, which characterizes the coast at that country.
The sun died firing his last flare, which reddened part of the skyline.
And there came a slight breeze that colored frozen fingers and tip of the nose, invigorating the muscles and causing tingling in his eyes.
Fr Gil was trying to meet his old arguments companion was teeming with deep and solemn voice.
Were the same as had been hearing for seven years in the chairs of the seminar Lancia.
By leaving the path and enter a narrow street they saw a herd of cattle moving slowly.
Restituto interrupted his theological and put his hand to his eyes by way screen. - Are my cows - said softly.
Before they arrived he shouted to the servant that led: - What is Brown, limping? - He should get a spine. - Then when he arrives at the register pen well and the bags, you know? ...
It is the best cow I have - he said softly, turning to his companion.
Spine should be, because the legs do not see anything.
After that it serves the wash well with a little wine and rosemary ...
Teresa gave it to you prepare ...
Born and raised in the house, do you know? - Continued turning to the toilet with the face tenderly .-- Me D.
It is more awkward than the other ...
Each jet off as the finger ...
And get off a shot the animal's teats and output two or three squirts of milk moist soil.
He got back up and herd them too.
Restituto picked up the thread again his speech. - I know some say that reason can not prove that God is, and this only can be obtained by faith and revelation ...
The falsity of this view manifested by the art show, which follows the effects of causes, and the same order of science, because if there is no knowable substance out of the sensitive there will be no science nor supernatural, as they say in quarto Metaphysicorum.
Must distinguish what is known per se simpliciter, and what is known quoad nos.
Simpliciter God is in itself, is known ...
Restituto had a most happy memory.
After so many years remembered very well his Dogmatic, and poured into Castilian recited with the same emphasis as if he had invented
