For all these snow was becoming the way, or was done, and very clean, and posts made by him.
Alleg to what they called Chile, where he spent more than a year in restraining those understanding nations and entering them in every way, sent to save him the amount stated in ingots gold, and the mitimaes were laid, and transported many of those people of Chile some parts in others.
He did, in some places, strong and close to its use, calling pucaraes, for the war that some had.
He walked the earth more than his father, until said he had seen the end of it, and sent to memory in many places so that in the future understand his greatness, and ways of grown men [196].
Placed on the reason for Chile, and done what was agreed, put her delegates and governors, and sent I always notice in the courthouse of Cuzco what happened in that province.
Encargóles that hiciesen justice and not agree to riot or not to kill clutter free movers give life to none.
He returned to Cuzco, where he was honorably received any of the city and the temple priests of Curicancha gave many blessings, and he delighted the people with big festivals made.
And nacíanle many children, who kept their mothers, among whom was born Atahuallpa second the opinion of all the Indians of Cuzco, who claim to be so, and his mother was called Tuta Palla, Quillacas natural, while others claim to be the lineage of the Orencuzcos, and always since he grew up, went Atahuallpa with his father, and was older than Huascar.
As Huayna Capac hobiese loose a few months in Cuzco, and he coupled hobiesen the priests of the temples of the oracles and soothsayers, ordered to make sacrifices, and offering of capacocha was very big and rich, and became well filled with gold of the mockers sorcerers.
Each one gave answer as parescia them that the king would be more happy.
Which with other things past, Huayna Capac ordered it to be understood to make a path real, bigger and wider than where it was his father, who came to Quito, where he had intended to go, and that the regular rooms and deposits the posts from switching to it.
To that all this land was known to be his will, left the post to advise and apricots were then sent to meet him, and made a most magnificent way and seeing that in the world, and longer, because it came out of Cuzco and associates of Quito and was coupled with I was going to Chile.
There was no road that the Romans did, that passes Spain, nor the others who read, so that with this being compared.
And more recently made himself up time than you can imagine, for the Incas, it took them to send more than their put people in for work.
General appeal made himself in all the provinces of his kingdom, and came from all over many people, and filled the fields, and after making drunken banquets and general and put in order the things of the city, went della Huayna Capac iscaypachaguaranga runes meaning, with "two hundred thousand men of war," without the yanaconas and women of service had not count the number of reach.
Mill was carrying two women and left in Cuzco more than four miles.
Had provided the delegates and governors who attended at the heads of provinces, that all parties to come [with] supplies and weapons, and everything else that is always collected and saved for when to war, and so all large buildings hincheron and deposits of all this, so that four to four leagues, the day was understood that they had to find proveimiento for this whole crowd, without missing, but on more than what they spent and women, and boys and men who served personally what I was commanded, and carrying the parts of the Inca and the baggage of the warriors of an inn to another, where was the proveimiento than in the past.
As Huayna Capac come out on the road by his command had been commanded to do, of Cuzco, walked until he came to the Vilcas, where stood a few days in the chambers that had been stuck with his father, and rejoiced to see the sun temple was finished and left quantity of gold and silver jewelry pastas and glasses, ordered that great care had proveimiento of the virgins and priests.
Sobióse to pray in a gallant roof and cousin that this had been done, sacrificed, according to his blindness, which used, and killed many animals and birds, with some children and men, to appease their gods.
This done, he left the place with his people the king, and did not stop until Xauxa Valley, where there was some controversy and division over the limits and fields of the valley between them were lords of it thou.
Understood as Huayna Capac, after having made sacrifices, as in Vilcas, sent along the lords Alaya, Cucichuca, Guacaropa [197] and between them fairly divided the fields the way you are today.
At Yauyos sent embassies, the same made to the Yuncas, and to Bonbon sent some gifts to the natural lords of the land; because, as they had strength in the lake, swimming parties, speaking loosely, and rigor would not talk with them to see yours.
Xauxa lords made him great services, and some of the captains and warriors were accompanying him, and walked up Bonbon, where it stopped short, because he wanted to go to Cajamarca, more rigged place to rest and provinces neighboring towns with large and very high.
And by the way people always came to major embassies and present.
As he arrived at Cajamarca, stopped a few days to rest from the road, and commanded that his people War will host the round of that land, and eat what they collected in the tanks was, and with the people who entered the Guancachupachos paresció, and had a fierce war, because they were not quite there in the natural grace of his father and compliance, but, both could, raided and subjugated it, putting governors and captains, and choosing the natural gentlemen, to send in the land, the ones they paresció, for them, old masters knew not to others which, being more powerful, rising and acaudillaban to make war, and gave peace when they wanted.
Found in Chachapoyas Huayna Capac high resistance, so much so that twice thwarted fleeing back to the strong that they made their defense, and favors that came before turning on Chachapoyanos and so broke, they asked for peace, stopping the war on their part.
God conditions helpful to the Inca, who sent many of them to pass that he himself resided in Cuzco, whose descendants now live in the same city took many women, because they are beautiful and graceful and very white; put garrisons of soldiers mitimaes ordinary men, to be by border, left in the main governor of the region, provided what more they used; punished to many leading, because they gave war, which indeed is to Cajamarca again, where he continued his journey, and put in order Caxas provinces, Ayahuacas, Guancabanba [198] and others that confine them.
Public is among many natives of these parts that Huayna Capac went by land Bracamoros call, and turned to escape the fury of men who dwell therein; the leaded whom had gathered to defend and who the angry to be, and, without Cuzco apricots, consider this the lord of Chincha, and some major and Collao Xauxa.
And they say all that going Huayna Capac finishing settle those lands where his father passed and he had subdued, he knew how in many men and had Bracamoros women who had fertile land, and deep inside the earth had a pond and many rivers, full of large populations.
Covetous of discovering and willing ladies, taking paresció the people who, with little baggage, he had to walk away, leaving the field stay by real drums, and entrusted to the captain general.
Entering the earth, were opening [199] Asaz the road with work, because after the snow-capped mountains of the promontories, gave in the mountains of the Andes and found raging rivers to go, and fell from the sky many waters.
All was not party to the Inca cease to arrive at where the natives of many parts positions were waiting for her strong will, where he showed his nakedness, afeándole His coming, and started the war each other, and many of the barbarians were combined, the most bring naked without clothes, to what was stated, that the Inca were determined to withdraw, and did without gaining anything in that land.
And the natives who felt it gave him such a hurry that in stride, sometimes making the face, sending sometimes present, descabulló them and set back fleeing to his kingdom, saying it was to avenge the pintail; which he said, because Some wore the maures [200] long they hung down over her legs.
From these lands, which had already renovated, also says that people sent captains which is sufficient, for them to see the coast of the sea that had to the North, and to endeavor to his service to attract the natives of Guayaquil and Puerto Viejo, and that they walked by those regions, where war had some battles, and in some cases were winners, and others not at all, and so he walked up Collique where people encountered who were naked and ate human flesh, and had the habits that have and use today the neighboring towns of San Juan river, from where they turned, not wanting to move on, to give notice to their king, who with all his men had arrived at the Cañar; whither he was thankful in the extreme, they say birth [201] there, and you have made great buildings and drums, and much provision, and sent ambassadors to him should come and see the regions, and many more will come ambassadors with presents.
I have understood that, for some noise that tried to certain towns in the region of Cuzco, I felt so much that, after having removed the heads to the principal, expressly commanded the Indians in those parts of the stones brought from Cuzco the amount stated, to do in some quarters Tomebamba much delicacy, which he brought to the ropes, and His commandment was fulfilled.
And he said many times Huayna Capac, the people of these kingdoms, for keeping him well subdued, proper, when they had to do or to understand them a mountain pass from one place to another and even from Cuzco carry stones and slabs sent to buildings of Quito, which today are in buildings that put.
Huayna Capac Tomebamba came and went through the Puru, and rested a few days in Riobamba, and Mocha and The Tacunga rested his men and had much good to drink the concoction that was rigged and collected them everywhere.
Here was greeted and visited many lords and masters of the region, and apricots sent was that of his lineage [202] to which they were along the coast of Los Llanos and the mountains to take account of quiposcamayos, which are its accountants, in what was in the tanks, and to which they knew how they had with the natives the nickel had made governor, and if they were well supplied with the temples of the sun and guacas oracles and that was in every place, and sent messengers to Cuzco in the ordering the things you sent and left everything to fulfill his will.
And there was no day that does not e came, not one or a few, but many, of Cuzco, the Collao, Chile and all his kingdom.
De La Tacunga walked until he go to Quito, where he was received, in his own way and style, with big parties, and gave the governor of his father's treasures, which were many, with fine clothes and other things that were under his charge, and honróle with words, praising his loyalty, calling father and always according to estimate how much his father and he had served.
The Quito to neighboring towns sent many presents and provisions for the king, and ordered in Quito be made more and more strong quarters that had, and then stood by work and there were those who found when the land our won.
Some of the dried state, which Huayna Capac returned from Quito to Cuzco by Los Llanos to Pachacamac, and others not, it was in Quito to death.
In this, inquerido What is more certain, according to the porn as I heard, some principal that is found for his people with him in this war, they say, that while in Quito, we came from many parts ambassadors to congratulate him on behalf of their lands, that have, and having taken [the] very safe and peaceful [so] to the provinces of the mountains, he thought it would be okay to do day to the provinces of Puerto Viejo and Guayaquil to what we call, and to the Yuncas, and taking counsel with his captains and main, approved of his thought and advised to put him to work.
Quito were in many of its people, with which agreed and departed, and went through those lands, where some residents had with some Dellas skirmishes, but in the end, both groups were in his service and made them Governors and mitimaes.
Puna had a fierce war with Túmbez, and the Inca had ordered an end to the strife and to receive him in the Puna, which Tumbalá felt much, because he was lord of it, but he dared not to stand against the Inca, before it was engaged or present with false peace, because, as it came, procuring the land natural, tried to kill many apricots with with a raft captains were going to go to a river to take the mainland, but Huayna Capac it knew and what I have done in Part eScript chapter LIII, and great wrath, and sending to the road, or safe passage, that is called Huayna Capac [203], turned and stopped at Tumbes, where buildings were made of the sun temple and they came the counties to do him reverence with humility.
