Both lovers swear eternal fidelity. "Rather die than be different," she said. "Before die to be of another, "he said.
The more I looked him Echeloría, most beautiful and angelic and more mellifluous was was put to her.
And the more I looked Mutileder Echeloría to a greater number of perfection and excellence was in it.
Well, to say nothing, because it would be never ending story, the mutual admiration that arose both souls when considering the talent or the ability of the object of his love.
Each stone Mutileder pulling killed a bird and broke the heart of Echeloría, by dint of enthusiasm.
And Echeloría, meanwhile, more than charm Mutileder knew the songs sing, had made a serious pita, so full of subtle and exquisite work, he was spellbound for hours contemplating the deep.
The two lovers enjoyed complete freedom and went alone to walk through those byways and byways, and along the resounding sea, and by oaks and olive groves wearing those hillsides, and by the Verjel, groves and groves of the valley, watered by a Crystal Creek.
But both were so as God commands, that despite how much they wanted, not molested never anything but a warmly shaking hands and once or twice at most, to consent to her receiving a chaste kiss on the smooth and candid front, and achieve the pattern.
The highest virtue and delicacy of these cousins ??put everything on hold for the day fortunate in that religion and the laws contained in their indissoluble unity.
Meanwhile they said two hundred thousand tenderness every time. "Your name is a label I put on my heart, "exclaimed Echeloría. "My heart is yours forever leave before beating that love you alone, "answered Mutileder.
These sessions are the hours passed, and continued two lovers were together less when Echeloría retired to sleep next to his old nurse and stay very sheltered or when going to the beach for bathing, for then, in order to avoid what people say and gossip, Mutileder not bathe her, perhaps not used even swimwear, so complicated and conceal the ways in which they are now in Biarritz and elsewhere.
III Phoenician city of Malaga was a lot of trade.
The port was full Tyrian ship, Pelasgian, Greek and Etruscan.
In its stores were sold thousand beauties brought from distant countries: wool fabrics, dyed purple in Tyre, gold jewelry, made in Memphis in Sais and other Egyptian cities, gemstones and Hindustan cotton fabrics; Persian carpets, silk and even the most ignored country of Seras.
Echeloría went to Manchester several times with her father and her boyfriend, to visit those stores and buy clothes to the wedding day sighed.
Hallab then in Malaga one of the boldest and marine scientists had then the world: the famous Adherbal
