Enrique and Miguel, who had been in the courtyards talking briefly with cigar and his crew were also to occupy the respective seats.
The noise had decreased a lot, because this is perceived by the chords hospicianos charanga, which until then had failed to be heard.
Viewers took off their watches and meaningful glances ran for president.
In this, the charanga sang real progress with energy, all faces turned to the regional viewpoint which appeared Queen Elizabeth: Some clapped, others said 'hush, hush, "because the political atmosphere was then overcast with some clouds who downloaded not long after.
Made the signal, after all, the teams entered the arena to the sound of the running of the zarzuela Pan y toros: out, as usual, forming three rows in front of each was the respective sword.
Severe across the square, firm, rhythmic, listening to the shouting that his appearance had raised with the utmost indifference; its rich costumes and bright Capellaro live firing flares that pleases the eye. - Mial, mial old! ...
But for the Madrid fan, to see receive a bull is one of those dreams that never made although they live constantly in the heart stand taken by several bullfighters, but receive receive what is called truth, they have not done more than the ancient heroes of bullfighting.
Uniform saluted with a gesture to the chair, and broke ranks, pulling layers gala friends in the stands, who were responsible for their care with more pride than if they were the Ark of the Covenant.
The president took out his handkerchief, blew the bugle, the door opened pen: the first bull appeared.
Miura was a chestnut, chorreao, ribbon, thin and beautiful film, raised long horn.
Volunteer showed himself noble in the sticks, holding six Shiv of round picks.
However, the Serranito couple stabbed a superb room with fine and clean, pleasantly surprised the public: in Madrid did not know, as in Seville, Baldomero was a boy who would much to speak.
Hake was passed once and then hung a stick room as well.
He turned Serranito to pick up the sticks, and after trying in vain to hang on the bias, put them breaking with cleaning and expertise.
There was a frenzy of clapping in the square, her slender figure and the unique correctness and delicacy of her features, captivated the audience, the women you greedily dug twins, triumphantly walked around the square to receive the applause of smiling lines.
It was his turn to Cigarette: severely advanced to the presidency, took off his hat and he croaked a few words that nobody could understand, then went straight to bull, which had marked tendency to flee.
Persiguiole some time unsuccessfully expectant curiosity through the square.
Finally, thanks to the efforts of the crew, could fret, and did pretty tight, giving some good passes, the crowd applauded and the promised very happy.
But amid the slaughter, the right-hander suffered a strained and lost entirely aplomb, gave three or four passes without trust and broken, and fast and running, without being either square the animal, rolled the cloth away and threw quite a step of flags.
It's indescribable anger that gripped the audience.
The president, who must have been shocked and upset as everyone in the audience, gave the death signal, without considering that the bull had been placed not more than a couple of flags, and it was dangerous for the sword that was so full of death.
No one respected or even remember the majesty was at his side: the shouting the most vulgar insults.
The matador's feet barely moved out of a circle or very narrow, but this circle seemed sacred and insurmountable; the bull's horns passed rubbing the old man's jacket matador without doing the slightest harm.
When it came to the hospital were already there and Miguel Enrique with the doctor and some friends.
The priest had confessed and was about to put the anointing of the unfortunate Baldomero, who presented in the face unfailing signs of death.
When his brother came into his eyes to him and smiled warmly. - Is there no yes or NAA, eh? - He asked in an agitated voice, hoarse, trying to persuade that there was no case of death. - Not much, Pepe ...
I'm going another neighborhood ar ...
The priest moved at that moment with the sacred oils.
All the bystanders turned the knee.
Eerie silence reigned, only interrupted by the murmur of the clergy and the rattle the dying.
When it concluded, Baldomero sent a smile to his brother and handed him hand and said to work: - My little ones ... - Loses cudiao, Baldomero - said the old man's voice and her hand knotted heart .-- Your child will be mine.
At that moment there came a great shout in the square.
It was the people, who greeted the entry the fifth bull.
The cigar dropped sobbing in the arms of Michael. - What a sadness, D.
Miguelito gun, what sadness!
As it was anger, Miguel laughed at his friend Goose and did not think about it.
However, he charged with a few jokes, was the child could take revenge. - I participate, I love Manchester, if not give me a match, divulged the secret that makes I have saved you years - said without looking up from the pages he was writing.
Mendoza gave the match seriously and preventing out as he could ridicule of his friend. - What secret is that? - Asked him laughing the other editors. - I made an oath not to reveal it.
The editors looked shocked, and without saying another word, bowed their heads and continued writing. - Listen, Perico - I say again - I think that this coat is very short.
The fellow laughed because it was far from true. - It is quite long - a bit amostazado Mendoza said. - For any other mortal no doubt, but for a director! ...
Notes, Perico, you have made to the public certain unavoidable commitments.
The writing consisted of a room and cabinet in a room mezzanine Bath Street.
At first everything was writing, and gradually more muted, Mendoza was left only in the cabinet.
One day came on the door this a sign that said: Address.
Perico is believed the explanation for his friend
