We can not find the etymology of COMINT, but look the other names that we statement with the prefix taga.
Also is named to the other idolatrous infidels in Mindanao, and is easy to understand that this term embraces distant tribes to be so widespread and attending to what it really means.
Its name means "men or inhabitants of the jungle. " A faithless people inside the island of Mindoro are called Manguianes.
In Tagalog, Bicol and Visayan, Manguier means "savage, wild, black infidels", so that the use of this word is common to a great number of Filipinos, but, however, has only been applied to certain inhabitants of Mindoro.
Originally, no doubt, the name was given only to the that today carry on that island, but its use in three Philippine languages ??shows that ngian radical in all these languages ??have a sense now forgotten.
So it is with the voice Tagbanúas, whose etymology we have clarified, "Natural country", that being the name of infidel Rangers today means "savages Paragua "simply because the idea of ??'wild' replaces the old meaning voice that was lost with many others. * * * * * Ka affix and suffix W It is common to almost all Philippine languages ??form adjectives and nouns with the procedure prefixed to the root of the prefix ka and postpone an.
Names regularly and compounds are referring to place and these have been applied after its inhabitants.
This is true Cagayan, Kalagan, Kalibugan, Katalangan, Katubagan and many others.
Just as we have seen the names applied indiscriminately Tinguian Igorot and the Infidels that inhabit the mountains, so we found in northern Luzon as usually the name Kalinga applied to the mountain people of that region, we read in the writings of the friars report them with the voice of the Calinguismo.
Some tribes are given to each other and the name of Kalinga The reason is simple: in almost all those dialects SIGIF "enemy", and as the main occupation of these savages is a constant struggle of one tribe to another is clear that all called with the same voice: "enemy", Kalinga.
Non suffix used in Bicol and Visayan as taga also in Tagalog, and so we called buquidnon to a Malay race infidels who inhabit the eastern tip of the district of Misamis and the Spanish call wild is really the translation of that name filipino lead.
The lack of vocabulary of all Filipino dialects I can fruitfully follow full etymological study of the names of races or tribes, but with this we see that all have the same or identical training.
In Cagayan, live in the nearby mountains and Tubang Naksiping a peaceful infidels called ARIPO.
A missionary priest said the voice meant "up at the top" and referring to the room chosen by the blacks on the heights of the mountains.
No say today that this explanation is not founded, but also remember that others explain their etymology itam warning that means "black color" in Malay, and as the blacks have right to a name with this meaning, it appears that no objection to this etymology am what it means and I so it's worth, the same as the other.
What matters is not to differentiate the names of tribes that are not based on reason identity of language: the groups characterized by the use of the same dialect must be known by one name and form distinctive ethnographic studies after a base as strong as the anthropological measurable, it is necessary to form vocabularies of their languages ??and establish its mechanism or is your grammar.
Works by the same author Contribution l'etude du Genou the Périarthrite (séreuse bourse affections of the patte d'oie) .-- Paris, 1886.
Contribution to the study of ancient Filipino alphabet
