Those who have written in Spain Cervantes is the number of very short compared to those in England have written about Shakspeare.
Our warm praise of Cervantes are compared to those that have been to Shakspeare in England.
Moreover, much like in everything, even in some children and naive gifts same have been down there on Shakspeare, which Cervantes around here.
Both have been philosophers, doctors, lawyers and good officers or teachers in almost all trades, but in truth, both mills were laymen, and Shakspeare than Cervantes, if well all know by penetration, liveliness of wit, for wit and insight in serene gaze to observe it, embrace it and understand everything at first sight.
As have not had to toil both British and the Spanish scholars, is find out who they were, where were the characters that put into action its poet.
Don Quixote, Sancho, Dulcinea, Sanson Carrasco, the Duke, Clara, Dorothy, Lucinda, Cardenio, Altisidora, Maese Pedro, and many others, have no history, and one must look to labored diligently in the archives, and then reveal to the world the truth that interesting all these real life characters lived, and were baptized in this or that parish.
But Shakspeare's characters and the actions they perform or intervening, are, rather than in his dramas, in chronicles, poems and legends, or other tragedies that Shakspeare refluxing.
Few authors have taken more than the others that Shakspeare.
Everything seemed fine, sublime, fun, enjoyable, funny, I took without scruple where he was.
He said a discreet, in literature, not only apologize, but glorifies the theft when he follows the murder.
Shakspeare knew this maxim, and not left to kill those who stole it.
Authors stolen no one would remember if they had not been stolen.
All died: but Shakspeare lives, and those authors created characters that evoked a life or vague and as shade, and a uncertain light, dusk and uncertain, have been brought by Shakspeare to crystal radiant light of immortal glory, and a life stronger, clearer, more real than all heroes of history.
This is without doubt the greatest merit, the biggest mystery, the most powerful charm of genius Shakspeare.
On this side and this side is the most important, few poets will advance in all modern literature.
