But it malice, because I, nor the bulls go, but I fourth generation estarme provided in the back talking to her. - Well, man, well, come on, keep it or leave it here, at the last minute to tell you Mr.
Do not imagine that I want break our relationships: to know that I want, get a letter in which I talk about your Sweetheart, hear you ever remember me when you suffer and you're missing something in the joys of not having me on the side, are things that touch my soul and leave me proud of myself.
Never throw you in the face lack of energy or weakness constancy.
Fed have done with starting to love, but then you weigh.
I miss everything around you, you live in an atmosphere of luxury almost unknown to me, as I live between deprivation that you can not calculate, and may you always be outsiders, the least of your whims I could not satisfy many weeks of work, the people that speak to you have to use derogatory language to for those in situations similar to mine, went into the house of my parents and you saw these walls, the furniture, I would hesitate whether to offer money for pity or conceal what they noticed, by pointing to imagine that such a shortage could offend: and yet you say that best place in your heart is for my baby, and you taught me my letters with my name deleted with your kisses.
Now, as all you hidden, I want you to know what happens at home.
Tirso my brother, the priest, who have been educated and has always lived far from us, must come the day after tomorrow.
Ignore the reason for his coming, not a word we know of its purposes, nothing has been said.
Recently time wrote that it might need to make a trip to Madrid, then gave him a sure thing, now announces that arrives.
My parents, of course, rejoice, in your Pepe Leocadia and, if I must be frank, the feeling that dominates is that of curiosity.
We've only seen Tirso once or twice, being very small, and within hours we're going to have you here.
I'll get to the station and you will know the habits, otherwise it would have to say: "this is." Would funny to come down while the wagon two young priests!
If your position is well off, thank goodness, and I do not mean less work for me, but what if is as poor as we?
We will be five instead of four who have to live poor.
Perhaps come to expect something, but if so, why not checking with our father?
You who know my way of thinking, although not completely, understand that shelters some fears.
Tirso is a priest, and in this house there is very little devotion.
That if you do not!
I have read so many books of which has my father, me Don Quijote agreement says that all the knights wore on his shield a sign.
Well, you and I are two men walking with this sign: love and patience.
I am content with who I love very much.
I think this has nothing to do with social conventions, with the humility of your house or your bitterness.
Concerning the coming of your brother, I can tell you anything, but I figure that you see everything black.
Until you know what your situation, there is no need to hurry.
What a great and enviable privileges!
