I would drop dead of fright.
Here we will be still, than it looks the danger in it dies.
So that conversation ended, details of which I kept in my memory, despite the time elapsed.
More often happens that the facts too remote for our children, remain etched in the imagination more intently than those witnessed in age mature, and if it prevails over all powers of reason.
That night D.
Marcial Alonso and continued lecturing in the few times that the suspicious Dona Francisca leave them alone.
When she went to the parish to attend the ninth, as the pious custom, the two sailors breathed freely as busy school that lose sight of the teacher.
Encerráronse in the office, got some maps and were examining them with great care, then read some papers that had targeted the names of many British ships with the number of its guns and crew and for their warm conference that alternated with the strongest reading comments, I noticed that devised the plan a naval battle.
Marcial imitated the gestures of his arm and half the teams progress, the explosion of the barrages, with his head, the balance of the boats combatants with his body, falling the side of the ship will sink, with her hand, raising and lowering of signal flags; with a slight hiss, the Boatswain's command, with the blows of his club foot against the ground, the roar of cannon, with its slurred language, oaths and unique voices combat, and as my master in this task with the utmost gravity, I too take my room to spades, encouraged by example, and giving vent to that need natural eater make noise that dominates the temperament of children with absolute rule.
No poderme contain, seeing the enthusiasm of the two sailors, I started pacing around the room therefore trust that was treated by my master allowed me to do this, head shadowing arms and the provision of a vessel that encircles the wind, while uttering, cupping voice, booming monosyllables that most resemble the sound of a gun, such as Bum, bum, bum! ...
They were very engaged in his lecture, when they heard the footsteps of Dona Francisca returning from the ninth. "What comes! - Marcial said with terror.
And the point kept the planes, concealing his excitement, and stood to talk about things indifferent.
The beating continued as follows: I walk into the kitchen, crying and ashamed after lowered the flag of my dignity, and without thinking about defending against an enemy so superior; Dona Francisca behind hunting and giving me testing my neck with repeated blows of your hand.
In the kitchen, threw the anchor, tearful, considering how bad my fight was over naval. -V- To oppose the mindless determination of her husband, Dona Francisca was not based only in the above reasons, had, in addition to those, another powerful, not indicated in the previous dialogue, perhaps too well known.
But the reader does not know and I'll decírsela.
Now, this daughter was named Rosita, age slightly higher than mine, as I just moved from fifteen years, and had arranged her marriage to a young artillery officer named Malespina, a family of Medina, distantly related to that of my mistress.
He had wedding set for the end of October, and already understand that the absence of the father of the bride objection would have been as solemn days.
Alas, Here are my memories take a melancholy tint, evoking images in my fantasy importunate and alien as if from another world, waking up tired in my chest sensations, indeed, I do not know if my spirit bring joy or sorrow.
But let that the reader gets tired of annoying reflections on what a single mortal care.
Rosita was very pretty.
I remember vividly her beauty, though I would be very difficult to describe his features.
It seems I see before me smile.
The singular expression on his face, that of any other similar, for me, for the clarity with which it offered to my understanding, one of these primitive notions, it seems we have brought from another world, or we have been infused mysterious power from the cradle.
And yet, no answer for being able to paint, because what was real as an idea has become uncertain in my head, and nothing fascinates us Thus, just as nothing escapes so subtly to any assessment specification as an ideal wanted.
Upon entering the house, I thought that Rosie belonged to a higher order of creatures.
Explain my thoughts so that you admire my simplicity.
As children, and a new be coming into the world in our home, older people tell us that you have brought from France, Paris or England.
Deceived myself and everyone about this unique way of perpetuating species, believed that the children came to order, packaged in a drawer, like a bundle of hardware.
Well, looking first to the daughter of my masters, so reasoned that beautiful person could not have come from the factory where we all come, ie Paris or England, and was persuaded of the existence of an enchanting region, where architects divine styling knew so beautiful specimens of the human person.
As children both, though in a different condition, soon we are dealing with self-confidence of age, and my greatest joy was to play with her, suffering all their impertinence, that was great, because our games are never confused classes: she was always miss, and I always brought up so I had the worst, and if he blows it is not necessary indicate here who received them.
As a child I used to sing olé and reeds, with expertise of nightingales, they know everything in music without having learned anything.
All you praised that ability, and formed a circle to hear, but I was offended applause of his admirers, and wished to silence others.
The note, which impacted on itself entangled and unraveling like a thread of sound, was lost up and faded away to return descending with timbre.
Emitted by a bird appeared, the first dating back to Sky, and then sing our own ear.
The soul, if I may use a simile vulgar, seemed to be lengthened following the sound, and then shrank back to him, but always mindful of melody and music combining the beautiful singer.
Singular was the fact that for me to hear her sing, especially in the presence of others, was almost a mortification.
We had the same age, more or less, as I said, it only exceeded mine yours in about eight or nine months.
But I was little and stunted, as she developed with great vigor, and thus, upon the expiration of three years of my residence in the house, she seemed much older than me.
These three years have passed without suspicion us that we grew, and our games are not interrupted, as she was more mischievous than I, and her mother scolded her, trying to fix it and make it work.
After three years I noticed that the forms of my adored Miss widened and rounded, completing the beauty of her body: her face was more on, fuller, warmer; her large eyes brighter, although the look less erratic and volatile, his pace more leisurely; their movements do not know if more or less light, but certainly different, but could not then nor I can now appreciate what the difference.
But none of these accidents me confused as well as the transformation of his voice, which gained some serious sound good different from that mischievous and joyful squeal with calling me before, turn the trial, and making me forget about my chores, to attend the game.
One fateful day a thousand times, thousand times gloomy, my mistress was presented to me in a suit under.
That transfiguration wrought in me such an impression that the whole day did not speak a word.
Was seriously as a man who has been cruelly deceived, and my anger against him was so great in my soliloquies proved strong reasons that the rapid growth of my mistress was a felony.
He woke me fever reasoning, and on that controversial issue passionately myself in the silence of my sleepless nights.
What I was stunned to see that with a few yards of cloth had completely changed its character.
Since then walked with Rosita the utmost caution and seriousness, several times I noticed a stairway before me, careful not to show a single line one inch above your ankle beautiful, and this system of fraudulent concealment was an affront to the dignity of one whose eyes had seen somewhat higher.
Now I laugh considering how broke my heart with those things.
But had yet to occur more miserable.
One year after its transformation, Aunt Martina Rosario cook, Marcial and other characters of the easement, it occupied a certain day serious matter.
Diligently applying my ear, then I learned that there were rumors alarming Miss was going to marry.
The thing was unheard of, because I did not know any boyfriend.
But then I arranged all the parents, and the strange thing is that sometimes went too bad.
As a young man of great family asked for her hand, and my masters on him.
This young wine home with his parents, who were a sort of counts and marquis, with a title booming.
The claimant brought his Navy uniform, in which served honorable body, but despite such elegant trappings, its facade was very unpleasant.
His mother tried to persuade her but in vain, and made him the most complete picture of the good qualities of the groom, of high lineage and great wealth.
The girl was not convinced, and others opposed these reasons very strings.
But the main thing was silent rogue, and the main thing was that she had another boyfriend, whom the truly loved.
The other was an artillery officer, called, very good looks and gentle Fig.
My mistress had known him in the church, and the treacherous love over her, while prayed, because the temple was always very suitable place for his poetic and mysterious enclosure to open wide the doors to love the soul.
Malespina haunted house, which saw I several times, and much talked about in Vejer of these loves, the other knew, and challenged.
My master knew all when the news came home that had mortally wounded Malespina rival.
The piety of my masters are shocked both this fact, who could not conceal his anger and Rosita was the main victim.
But it was months and more months, the wounded healed, and as Malespina was also a person of birth and rich, were noted in the political atmosphere of the house that the young inklings D.
Rafael was going to enter it.
Resigned to link parents of the injured, and instead presented the winner's home to ask for his son the hand of my dear mistress.
I remember when I was there.
He was a man very dry and straight, with thirty sucks colors many flaps on the clock, large queues, and a long nose and sharp, with which he seemed sniff out people who supported the conversation.
He talked a blue streak and kept get a word to the others, he said it all, and could not praise anything, because the point out saying he had something better.
Since then I crossed out and mentirosísimo vain man, as I was able to see clearly later.
My masters received him with open arms, as that her son, that he was coming.
Since then, the boyfriend continued to going home every day alone or in company with his father.
Further processing of my mistress.
Then I could see clearly for the first time, cursing the humility of my condition, trying to explain the right they had the superiority of really were superior, and I wondered, in anguish, if it was fair for others to be nobles and wealthy and wise, while I was on the Creek ancestry, for my person only wealth, and could barely read.
Displaying the reward was my ardent love, I realized that nothing could suck in the world, and only later acquired the firm conviction that a large constant effort of mine I would perhaps everything that did not possess.
In view of the indifference with which she treated me, I lost confidence, I do not dare to deploy lips in his presence, and filled me with more respect than their parents.
Meanwhile I attentively observed the signs of love that dominated.
When he took, I saw anxious and sad at the slightest sound to indicate the approximation of one, was turned on its beautiful face and her dark eyes shone with anxiety and hope.
If he came at last he could not hide her joy, and then were talking hours and hours, always in the presence of Dona Francisca, because my teacher was not consented to talks alone or in bars.
There were also long correspondence, and the worst part is that I was mailing two lovers.
But my luck, I serenity to dominate so ugly purpose.
Needless to say, I hated Malespina.
Since he looked into my blood was inflamed, and if I ordered something, doeth the worst possible way, meaning you willing my high anger.
This detachment that they thought bad parenting and me a burst of courage, elevated own hearts, gave me some reprimands and, above all, gave rise a phrase from my teacher, who stabbed me in the heart as a painful thorn.
