Almost going to fight with the fury of his opinions and his rival in love, when Canto distracted his attention.
Rid of the drum was embedded in his head and wiped the blood from his forehead.
He wept with rage rage weak, capable of the greatest revenge, but it feels like a slave while his impotence. - To me!
The pebbles, dismissed by their weak arms were lost in the shadow or bounce off the porch.
Then whistled no more stones.
Some friends sang it almost dragged in the dark.
When Febrer, half an hour later, and the tumult subsided, he returned to his tower, he stopped several Sometimes on the road, with the revolver in his right hand as if expecting someone.
Can Mallorquí everyone had had a bad night.
But a little worried Margalida the opinion of her friends.
Else seemed interested: something that could not quite say, but did shed tear after tear.
The Pep but then closing the door of the house, had walked more than an hour in the kitchen muttering words and clenching his fists. "That Don Jaime! ...
Well, no sir: it was Ferrer.
This was suggested by insulting the idea that Don Jaime in full procession, with the assurance that no the grievance would go unpunished.
Since the boy was clear the real reason for the interview the two suitors that he had been surprised in the bush.
Febrer welcomed with a shrug this news, which the Chaplain attached great importance.
The singer was insolent and punished, and as for the Verro, had fled their challenges to the door of the house.
He was a coward.
Should remain on guard, now more than ever.
The Ferrer knew what the prison, and did not want to return.
I just made Verros others had done before.
The Chaplain explained at length his suspicion.
And the blacksmith could do whatever he wanted against Don Jaime: I could wait in ambush in tamarisk at the foot of the tower and kill with one stone.
Suspicion immediately be directed against sang, remembering the question occurred at the farm and his words of revenge.
With this and the Verro prepare an alibi moving at full speed for shortcuts to some distant point where all might see him, it would easy to fulfill his vengeance, in safety. - Ah! - Febrer said getting surly, as if suddenly understood the full importance of such words.
The boy, pleased with his superiority, continued to give advice.
Don Jaime was living forward less sloppy, close the door of his tower, ignore, only the arrival night, the cries from outside.
Verro pretend surely induce out of the dark with shouts of defiance, with Auque challenge. - Although he Auque at night, you still, Don Jaime.
I know that - continued Chaplain the importance of a hardened Verro -.
I scream from outside, hidden in the bushes, with the gun ready, and if it goes, before I can see you will kill with a pistol.
These recommendations were for the night.
By day, the Lord could come without fear.
Stood with vanity war, taking a hand to brace ensure that the knife had not disappeared, but was immediately disappointed to see mocking gesture of gratitude Febrer. - Laugh, Don Jaime, búrlese me, but something I can I serve ...
See for yourself how you notice now in danger.
With a bad idea it has prepared Ferrer of the song.
And looking around, as a leader who is prepared to repel a long siege.
Their eyes met the gun hanging from the wall between the shell ornaments.
So did his glorious grandfather.
The tower, which had witnessed other executions and battles centuries of pirates, shell empty tragic stone concealed by the sharp enjalbegadura the walls, then brought boy's attention.
Went to the door with slow caution, as if an enemy waiting for him at the foot of the stairs and hiding the body on the edge of the wall, advancing only one eye and part of the front.
Then shook his head in dismay.
When he looked out at night, even with these tricks, the enemy, lurking below, could see him, pointing his elbows comfortably on a branch or a stone, without fear of losing the shot.
Worse was yet to throw the body out of the door and pretend to fall.
For it was dark night, the enemy might choose a focus, a patch of foliage, a star on the horizon, something in the dark overhang that stands next to the stairs.
Teachings were heard from men who had serious last for months after a bank or shelter of a tree, with the butt cheek next to and the eye at the end of the barrel, from sunset till dawn, waiting for a old friend.
No, the Chaplain did not like this door with his outdoor staircase.
We had to seek way out, and his eyes went to the window, then opening it to lean to it.
With simian agility, laughing at his discovery, he jumped on the windowsill and began down by the wall, looking for hand and foot masonry inequalities, alveoli deep as stepping stones left by rolling boulders detached from the mortar.
Febrer looked out the window, and saw him at the foot of the tower picking up his hat was down and shaking it aloft with triumphant expression.
Realizing the importance of his discovery, made a serious gesture of mystery.
This remained between the two: not a word to anyone.
Laughed with savage pleasure, and dark red lips seemed to wake up trembling ferocity of the glorious grandparents, who had seen the man hunt the noblest of the exercises.
When left alone Febrer noon, he felt possessed by a desire Belize, aggressiveness that made him look for a long time the piece of wall hanging gun.
At the foot of the promontory, on the beach where the boat was beached Uncle Guster, rang this voice singing the mass.
Febrer appeared at the door, taking both hands to his mouth as a speaker and shouted.
The sailor, with the help of a boy threw his boat into the water.
The candle, collection, shaking at the top of the mast.
Jaime did not accept the invitation. "Thank you, Uncle Guster!" This insisted the little voice coming through the air like the distant wail of a child.
The evening was good, had changed the wind near the Vedrá going to catch fish in abundance.
Febrer shrugged. "No, thank you very much, had to do." As he spoke, when the Chaplain was presented for the second time in the tower, leading food.
His father, enraged by the scene night before, had chosen him as a victim, to vent his anger. "An injustice, Don Jaime! "shouted walking through the kitchen, while women, with watery eyes shrunk air, seemed to escape his gaze.
Everything happened so attached to their softness character, his goodness, but was to remedy this immediately.
This poor child disobedient and rebellious, was to blame for everything.
Pep was not sure how he could have influenced the presence of his son in the scandal the previous night, but remembered his resistance to becoming a priest, his escape from the Seminar and the memory of these troubles aroused his anger, making the concentrate on the boy.
And by sheer relief, accustomed to go hand and give a sample of his future anger, he took off a few slaps and kicks, thus claiming experienced disgust at seeing time before reaching Ibiza fugitive.
The Chaplain, shrunken and patient by custom, took refuge in a corner behind the wall of petticoats and skirts that opposed the weeping mother's fury Pep.
Soon cease to see Don Jaime.
Within a week they would take him to Ibiza.
But the Chaplain, despite his sadness, he smiled mischievously.
He said no more the Chaplain, but the words Febrer guessed that the good peasant should have released against him.
When Febrer was alone, he picked up the gun and spent a long time examining the door idly.
His thoughts were far, far away from the ends of the canyons, which seemed to point to the mountain ... "That blacksmith!
