II On a beautiful day of the month of May last, the Countess Poldy was alone, as intricacies of the forest, between ten and eleven in the morning.
Simple and elegantly dressed, wearing the graceful head a graceful Italian straw hat and left arm slope a small wicker basket.
That day was not meditation and contemplation of the beauties natural for the sole purpose of his trip.
Had other more practical.
Was she going to pick strawberries wild, the very delicate that wood produced in abundance, and also take florida some blade of grass, called waldmeister, which puts on perfume and Conquer and season the Maitrank, delicious drink of that season and that he liked very much the Countess widow.
Waldmeister looking strawberries, Poldy had strayed from the castle and deep in the the forest, far more than it used to.
Thus came to be in place very lonely and wild where the thick broken trees that were crowded with dense foliage, had a small lagoon.
On the opposite side of that to which he had approached Poldy, stood a dark and dilapidated tower.
Fumes malarious birds were scared away from that place.
Birds not glad with their songs and chirps as they did elsewhere in the same forest.
Almost sunk roots in water here and there were cattails and reeds in crowded clumps.
On the face of the sleeping water, then curled not the slightest breath of wind, extended the blade and the round green and broad leaves of water lily, whose white flowers stood in the still air.
Foot of Poldy sank into the grass had grown very high.
The noise was the water, Frogs duck it was the only thing that interrupted the strange silence that reigned around.
The stork was allowed to pet and satisfaction and caresses those noble taste caused him, squinting eyelids as if asleep and gently rubbing the long neck on the cover of the lovely lady.
Bright pearl, though hidden In the deep sea are, I know I find you well in my life For me des exalted prize.
The widowed Countess Zaheri accused and often also his daughter, calling it extravagant of dreaming, hallucinations, a staunch enemy of the wise and reasonable, and reckless unattainable ideal persecuting and absurd.
The unknown character suffered a mental illness similar to Poldy .
