He who wants to Read more to find out.
Everyone remembered the case of Don Benito Valls, and laughed outright, as the brother was first to make fun of the event.
The rich had been chueta owner to charge a credit a home and valuable land in a village inside the island.
By going to take possession of the new property, the more prudent neighbors had given good advice.
Owner was very to visit his ranch during the day, but do spend the night at home? ...
There was no report that a chueta had stayed in the village.
Don Benito did not heed this advice and stayed overnight on their property, but scarcely got into bed fled the home.
When the master grew tired of sleeping jumped out of bed.
Believed to have slept twelve hours at least, but it was still dark.
Opened a window and bumped his head cruelly in the dark, tried to cross the threshold, and could not.
During your dream neighborhood had boarded up all the holes and exits, and had to save chueta through the roof, between the laughter of people, celebrating his work.
This was only joking by way of warning, if he persisted in going against the customs of the people, wake up some night in flames. - Very great, but funny! - Said the captain -.
Captain Valls was bohemian family, always at sea or in distant lands, bringing a happy bachelor life.
And his father's death, his brother had been with the business the house, taking away many thousands of dollars. - The same as between the old Christians! - Paul hastened to add -.
In this matter of inheritance no race or creed.
The endless persecution suffered by their ancestors irritated Valls.
If a Spaniard battalion received orders to march to Spain in case of war, soldiers mutinied, left the headquarters and looted "the street".
It is already known: those with nose and eyes like me.
But there are many chuetas that are blunt and do not have anything common type.
In contrast, how many that are stale knights, nobility proud, have a face or that of Abraham and Jacob? ...
There was a list of suspect names to meet the real Chuetas.
But these Christians had their surnames the old, and was the traditional fancy separating the to each other.
They had only been marked by popular hatred of the families descended of those who were beaten or burned by the Inquisition.
The famous list of names was undoubtedly taken from the file of the Inquisition. - A happiness to become a Christian!
Grandparents charred by fire and grandchildren marked and cursed for ever and ever ...
The captain lost his ironic tone, remembering the gruesome history of chuetas de Mallorca.
It colored his cheeks and his eyes shone with fires of hatred.
To live in peace, had become all mass in the fifteenth century.
Since then, those suspected of Judaism those who did not have a protector cleric, had to go every Sunday to Mass at the Cathedral with their families, under the command and custody of a constable, who was in herd I put a blanket so that no one be confused, and so took them to the temple, between the whistles, insults and stones of the devout populace.
This was a Sunday and next Sunday, and in this ordeal weekly and endless dying parents and children became men, engendering new chuetas intended to insult the public.
A few families conspired to escape from this shameful slavery.
But if it was not, I want you to be ...
I am honored to have him as a grandfather much mine.
Three years were in prison, and confiscation of their goods produced one million dollars.
Furthermore, the Holy Tribunal had other million uprooted previous victims, and built a palace in Palma, the best and more luxurious than had anywhere in the Inquisition.
The prisoners were given torment to confess what they wanted their judges, and March 7, 1691 began the executions.
That event was as a historian not know of any in the world, the father Garau, Jesuit saint, well of science theological, rector of the Seminary of Mount-Zion, where now stands the Institute, author of Faith Triumphant, a literary monument that do not sell all the money in the world.
Here it is: accompanies me everywhere.
Charge encourage and strengthen the prisoners, had seen it all by, and languages ??made the thousands and thousands of spectators who attended the various peoples of the island to witness the celebration, solemn Masses thirty assistance and eight prisoners for burning, the luxury men's apparel and marshals, riders in spirited horses in front of the procession, and "the mercy of the crowd, which broke out other Sometimes cries of shame when they had to hang an outlaw, and remained mute before these reprobates forgotten the Lord ... " On that day showed, as the learned Jesuit, temple soul of those who believe in God and know him.
The priests marched valliantly shouting encouragement without tiring, the wretched inmates were pale, listless and without forces.
Well you saw how much aid was blue.
Those sentenced were taken at the foot of the castle of Bellver, for the final burn.
The Marquis of Leganés, governor of the Milanese, the way in Mallorca with his fleet, took pity youth and beauty of a girl condemned to the flames and asked his forgiveness.
The Court praised the Marquis Christian sentiments, but would not accept his plea.
Now you will see how evangelical piety recounts the death of my grandfather.
He opened the book Valls pointed to a page, read slowly: "As was just smoke to him was a statue, on reaching the flame, it was argued, covered and struggled as could, until he could no more.
Lechonazo was fat as a breeding and burned in the interior; so even when they arrived the flames, burning his flesh as a brand, and bursting through, he dropped the entrails as Judas.
Medius Crepuit sunt omnia viscera ejus diffuse. " This reading barbaric always produced effect.
The laughter ceased, the faces are darkened, and the captain walked around Valls amber eyes, breathing satisfied, as if she had to achieve a win, while the small volume returned to hide in your pocket.
Febrer once was among the listeners, the sailor said with grudging voice: - You were also there.
One of your grandparents, a Febrer, carried the flag green, most of the Court as an ensign, and the ladies of the family were in a carriage at the foot Castle to witness the burning.
Only a fool like you ...
Go, Paul tell us something about your travels ...
your achievements of women.
The soul of the Roqueta was still the same as those times.
Persisted hatred of religion and race.
For some living apart, in a piece of land isolated by the sea.
But soon recovered Valls good humor, and like all who have been shot by the world, could resist the invitation to tell their past.
Febrer, another wanderer like himself, enjoyed listening.
The two had lived a troubled existence and cosmopolitan than the monotonous life of the islanders, the two had spent the money lavishly.
The only difference was that he managed to win just Valls with the active genius of his race, and now, ten years older than James, had to do deal themselves with facility his modest bachelor needs.
Still traded from time to time and made commissions for friends who wrote to him from distant ports.
In its checkered history of ocean, Febrer discarded the story of famines and storms, and just curious about the affairs in the major international ports, which they collect exotic vices and females of all races.
Valls, in his younger days, when Ships sent from his father, had met women of all kinds and colors, finding mixed marinerescas that ended in orgies between shock waves of whiskey and a knife. - Paul, tell us about those affairs in Jaffa, where you wanted to kill the Moors.
And laughter threw Febrer listening, while the sailor was said that James was a good guy, worthy of better luck, with no other defects to be a sausage stuck to something family concerns.
To me, I tell it all, and since there family party, it is complete.
Febrer pretended not to understand.
The carriage entered Valldemossa, stopping near de la Cartuja before a house of modern construction.
When the two friends transposed garden gate, they saw coming towards them a man with white whiskers leaning on a cane.
It was Don Benito Valls.
Febrer greeted with voice, slow and dull, repeatedly cutting her words to suck the air.
Don Benito was glad to see him.
So said several times, but his eyes betrayed anxiety.
Best lived without seeing. - We have come together - continued the ocean -.
Knowing that James had lunch here, I have invited myself, sure to give you a great joy.
These family reunions are lovely.
They entered the house, decorated with simplicity.
Some cards and a horrible paintings depicting landscapes adorned Valldemossa and Miramar walls.
Catherine, the daughter of Don Benito, hurried down the upper deck.
Still wore powder of rice scattered on the chest, revealing the haste with which he had given a final touch adornment of his person to see get the carriage.
Jaime could contemplate carefully first.
She was tall, matt-brown, with black eyebrows, eyes same ink droplets and a slight hair lip and temples.
His youthful slenderness offered to fill and sign, announcing greater expansion for the future, as in all females of his race.
It looked sweet-natured and submissive, a good companion, unable to hindrances on the journey of life together.
His downcast eyes and colored his face when facing Jaime.
In his attitude, in their eyes furtive, we noticed the respect, adoration of you feel intimidated in the presence of unless considered superior.
It seemed impossible that a family was ugly.
Don Benito went to all the dining room.
Lunch was waiting for a long time, in that ate home to ancient usage, twelve o'clock.
They sat at the table, and Febrer, which was next to the owner, he felt disturbed by wheezing, by the great aspirations that interrupted his words.
In the silence that always surrounds the beginning of every meal, the whistle sounded painfully of diseased lungs.
The rich chueta lips moved, putting them in a circular as the mouth of a trumpet, and breathed in the air with noise strenuous.
Like all patients, felt the need to talk, his words were endless, from babbling and long breaks that left him with his chest heaving and eyes up, as if he were to die asphyxiated.
An atmosphere of anxiety spread through the room.
Febrer him with some alarm, as if you wait to see him dying fall of his chair.
Captain's daughter and used to the spectacle, seemed indifferent. - Is asthma, Don Jaime - laboriously said the patient - in Valldemossa ...
In Palma was dying.
The daughter took the opportunity to leave a voice of timid nun, in contrast to his burning eyes oriental - Yes, Dad lives better here. - Here are quieter - said the captain - and make fewer sins.
Febrer thought about the anguish of spending their existence next to that broken bellows.
The asthmatic, in his mania verbose, Jaime spoke of his descendants, of the illustrious Febrer the good and noble knights of the island. - I had the honor of being good friends with his grandfather, Sir Horace.
In his master grandfather knew everyone on the island and all talk, but keeping a gravity that commanded respect for the people without them away.
I was young, and had no fortune I have now ...
So among the 'red'.
Valls captain interrupted him, laughing.
Now his brother was a conservative and a member of all the guilds of Palma. - Yes I am - the patient shouted, drowning -.
I like the old ...
For she would die.
And he put his hand to his chest, breathing painfully, as if drowned enthusiasm.
Nailed atop his dull eyes, loving to respect the sacred institution of fear that had burned to their ancestors. - Pay no attention to Paul - went to retrieve the tooth, addressing Febrer -; you knows it well: a bad head, a Republican, a man who could be rich and will reach Growing old without having two pesetas. - Why?
Catalina made a gesture sad, as if afraid to be reproduced Febrer noisy scenes he had witnessed many times when discussing the two brothers.
Don Benito shrugged and spoke only to Jaime.
His brother was crazy: a heart gold, but crazy, hopelessly insane.
With their exalted ideas and rants on coffee was the main culprit of that decent people bear some prevention ...
to speak ill of ...
The river niece of his good appetite.
Whenever I ate with them admired by the ability your stomach. - But I know what it is hungry - the sailor said with some pride -.
I have suffered hunger indeed, hunger suggests that meat from peers.
And released by this recall in the full story of maritime adventure, he spoke of the times youth, when he had been "added" on board a frigate that went to the coast Pacific.
To strive to be a sailor, his father, the old Valls, author of the fortune of the house, had embarked on a schooner of his own which brought sugar from Havana.
The cook kept the best food, the captain did not dare give an order, see him as the son of the owner.
Never be a good sailor, hard and expert.
With the tenacious energy of race, was unknown to his father embarked on a frigate that was sailing for loading guano at the Chincha Islands, manned by people of diverse peoples: British deserters Fleet, boaters of Valparaiso, Peruvian Indians, the worst in each house, under the command of a Catalan stingy, more lavish in rebencazos in the, hut.
The trip was regular, but around the corner, after passing the Strait of Magellan, came the calm, and the frigate was still in the Atlantic about a month, sold out quickly the storeroom of the food.
The owner, a miser, had stocked the ship with scandalous parsimony, and the captain in turn had eaten the food, appropriating a portion of the amount for the purchase. - They gave us two biscuits a day, full of worms.
When I received the first amused me carefully, as a gentleman of good family, in taking away one by one those little creatures.
But after the clean leaving only a thin crust hosts, and I was dying hunger.
Then ... - Oh, man! - Protested Catalina, guessing what was going to say and repelling and fork plate with a gesture of disgust. - Then - continued the ocean, impassible - suppressed cleaning and swallow me whole.
At the end we only got one per day, and when I arrived at Cadiz I had to be subjected many to stock, for my stomach to settle.
After lunch, Catherine and James went to the garden.
The two brothers remained in the room that served as office, watching the couple strolling in the garden and ended up sitting in two cane chairs in the shade of a tree.
Catherine replied to questions from his companion with a Christian maiden shyness holy educated guessing the hidden words in common with their gallantry.
This man came for her, and her father was the first to accept this desire.
It was a Febrer, and she would say "yes." He recalled his childhood in school, surrounded poor girls who took advantage of every opportunity to annoy, from envy to wealth and learned hatred from their parents.
It was the chueta.
I could only get together with those of race, and even they were anxious to ingratiate himself with the enemy, betraying each other, excluding energy and cohesion for the common defense.
At the time of departure, they left chuetas before, an indication of the nuns, to avoid insults and attacks by other students to be together in the street.
Even the servants who accompanied the girls undertook fights assuming the hatred and concerns of its masters.
Also in boys' schools Chuetas out before fleeing from the slings and lashes of the Old Christians.
Valls's daughter had suffered the torments of the traitor pinprick, scratch hidden, the scissors stroke her hair, and then as a female, hatred and contempt for their former companions had followed him in life, its pleasures embittering rich young woman.
On field trips only greeted the friends of his father in the theater visited his box looked rather than people from "the street".
With one of them would to marry, and had married his mother and grandmother.
Despair and mysticism of adolescence had been dragged into the monastic life.
His father was close to drowning penalty.
But religion, religion that I wished to give life! ...
Don accepted Monji Benito of a convent of Mallorca, where he could see his daughter every day.
But no convent wanted to open their doors for her.
Superiors, tempted by fortune father, who would eventually move to the community, showed themselves compromisers and good, but alborotábanse monastic herds to the idea of ??being in their midst of "the street" and not humble and resigned to support the superiority of the other, but rich and arrogant.
When pushed back into the world for this resistance did not know what to think of their future and lived as a nurse with the father, not knowing what would be his fate, turning chuetas young back who fluttered like butterflies around it attracted millions of Don Benito, the noble Febrer presented itself as a fairy tale prince, to make his wife.
