The door was open.
Amparo entered step by step, fearing to find strange faces, and reached that room, crowded with furniture before and now almost empty ...
At first sight casting to see that there had been the pawnbroker.
He gave the girl a few steps inside the room and stood waiting for someone to come out.
Felt movement and voices in the interior of the house.
I was so transformed that hardly knew him at first sight, for he had grown a beard, which was thick, strong and curly, and the life of the field had been effective and rapid health agent that rude nature.
The face was full of vigor, and his eyes had all the brightness the best of times.
He wore brown cloth jacket and hat on his head skin.
Both clothes hung down so well that it almost beautiful.
Rather than a man in disguise, was a man who had dropped his disguise, appearing in his own right side.
Seeing to Amparito was delighted, but certainly something happened that bothered him to express his satisfaction. "Already here - he said quietly -.
It's your fault.
Be still, I do not like people ...
He left quickly and went back a little while to rummage in a drawer of the dresser.
Three or four times she saw him enter and exit Amparo wearing or bringing something and did not succeed to explain the reason for these trips. "Excuse me - said in one of those appearances, taking out a blanket and tearing it into strips -.
By coming here I found the poor Celedonia so lost his rheumatism, which I think that we will ...».
At the time she was alone, Amparo thought it prudent to close the door of the house because her open, we considered sold in the mansion of sadness, fear and pain. "Here I am again - that said, reappearing in the room with a handful of cotton left on the dresser -.
I had to give it a spin on the bed.
I I give the medicine ...
We also put bands in the knees and ointments and poultices ...
Not a moment stopped screaming and calling me.
Two days ago I arrived, and here I am without a moment's rest.
To demonstrate his strength, Amparo grabbed her waist before she could stop and lifted like a feather
