Is it the end that the door of his house?
He put his hand on the knob of shiny metal. "Is this - he thought - the first and last time I call here? ".
Do not have time to do more considerations.
Philip opened the door. "Do you love ...?». - It is not ...
These apparent discrepancies eternal clock, making sometimes match the steps of people, some not, contrary to human wishes always, and to our, already hurt us, are the most readily visible in the large reality of time.
While not appreciate the idea of ??continuity without these frequent disengagement of our steps with the toothed wheel that is not spent endless ever.
Art, abusing Perhaps for their own purposes, could not discredit this hidden logic, on the terms machine rests private and public events, and these come to be pedestal of the organism we call history. "Do you know where he go?" - Said the Empress from the room. - At the home of Dona Marcelina Polo, Calle de la Estrella.
This morning I went to an appointment, and they told me at noon. - At midnight! ... - Yes, ma'am ...
Centeno is away ... "Philip." - Miss ... - Nothing, nothing.
Pulse gave him out again and run back home.
He represented in his dazed mind two papers written by her long before, two brief letters, full of nonsense and greater shame that you could conceive ...
He took a few steps.
Do you want to call Dona Marta? ". - No, by God, do not call anyone.
Look over, please bring me a glass of water. - At the time.
In the short time that Philip was out, Amparo spread their looks for the luxury room where he was. "Here was I going to live - she thought, as fierce off the bottom rejected of his soul the wild joy that he wanted to enter it -.
because here I my life is finished. "Thank you - said to Philip, taking the glass of water and putting it on the table -.
Now I'll to do another favor. " - What you send me. - Well, you have the goodness - Amparo said slowly, searching her bag and pulling out a paper - go to the pharmacy, which is in the same street, two doors down ...
Take the recipe, I bring this medicine ...
Prontito runs, here I wait ... - I at the time.
From the hallway, and rushed back Centeno said 'If you do not get bored ...». - What? - Nothing, I'm going to wind the music box of pajarucos.
The orchestra began to play in miniature, and birds, opening and flapping their Piquitos wings, it seemed that singing in that forest enclosed in a lantern.
Very satisfied of its occurrence, Felipe went.
Then he thought In its resolution, which was unbreakable.
In the concern for suicide no longer occur to the similarity that steps had to play or novel, and Thus their enthusiasm cooled momentarily murderer.
But remembering the cards, such was his horror of existence, but did not want Felipe come back soon to conclude at once
