In the early days, the intimacy of their relationships excused, if not legitimized those loans later on, ended the love and ill-treatment started, was not found in a position to meet their commitments.
The Kronstadt latest conspiracy had cost him so much that after he had not known what to do: some letters found in Zurich, his answers to others, showing which had led to various parts insisting urgently to help you.
This reading Ferpierre inspired a serious question: Would they have killed and nihilistic Zakunine the Countess to grab your money? ...
The suspicion was not damning without examination.
In the house of the dead had been found many values, but the Countess was so rich, that it might have been in possession of the last day a higher amount.
Ferpierre agreed to ask Milan, counter casa d'Arda, if the values ??found in the village Cyclamens were exactly those who should be there, and at the same time questioning the servants of the town to find out if any of them could, in the confusion of the first now, having seen the murderers take the sums to be lacking.
But even if the judge believe that anything was possible in the world, would not admit that evil Zakunine out to the point killed for stealing.
The assumption could, of course had to be done was another: Zakunine returned to the side of the Countess, not because they felt love for her, but by the need the help they could give spontaneously.
Extremely rich, accustomed to not spend on themselves same or a quarter of their income, could get bail immediately to her former lover.
So the Prince went to see her from time to time and was more kind to her.
Among the letters of the Natzichet the judge did not find any that you serve.
All concerned to studies of the nihilistic, had written on many social issues discussed, drafts of articles for the American magazine The Rebel, and Spanish fact sheets and Dutch which the author was a correspondent.
For more than their dislike for the young did not give the magistrate was forced to admit that it had a culture outside ordinary: writing correctly in Spanish, English and German newspapers sent bibliographies in which he reported all kinds of scientific and philosophical.
The information gathered from the Zurich police were, moreover, pro-nihilist.
Three years earlier he had left Russia alone, without resources, having been deported his father and brother to Siberia for revolutionary acts.
In Zurich had begun to study medicine, living by his work, translations of scientific works made on behalf of German and French publishers.
I was in relations with all political refugees, but had not taken active part in the conspiracy: on the contrary, both orally and in writing disapproved of continuous and useless sacrifice of lives.
He bowed to the moral propaganda, the preparation of conscience, but ardent and virile nature, had not hesitated down to the action if it had been necessary.
And while its relations with the Prince nothing is said of precise, the suspicion of being his mistress was confirmed.
In love with her, her constant companion in Zurich, would not Zakunine impatient agitators abandoned both by the action of love unnerving as for persuasion that directly bear on it the girl?
These assumptions seem plausible to Ferpierre.
And the accusation of candle plant continued to appear unfounded.
True, he had returned to the side of the Countess and was treated with the greatest consideration, but if this should prove that he was sorry their evil dealings before, the same regret, the presence of these unscrupulous in his mind contradicting the hypothesis of murder could hardly wish for death of a being, who regretted having caused pain.
If the Prince had been married to the deceased, and, tired of it, I wanted to get marriage to the nihilistic nihilistic and wanted to marry him, he could rebuild rationally drama in another way, feigning repentance, the husband returned to the side his wife, persuaded his conversion, persuading others to dispel any suspicion and then, alone or with the complicity of his mistress, the killed to be free.
But Zakunine was not inextricably linked to the Countess, or could not believe he wanted to marry her young fellow, had to leave all these assumptions.
The repentance of that man was sincere, or rather credible because he had a cause: the need for money.
Beyond that, no reason, however subtle it was, could explain it.
In his long and varied experience, Ferpierre had studied carefully the passions human, and knew that faithless lovers often feel overwhelmed at the time of Treason, by a movement of compassion for the person who betray.
Aware of evil they do lessen their guilt by agreeing to that person a pity that seem to show His goodness of heart, but in fact it is a selfish pleasure, and, therefore, offends more the betrayed.
The Prince, who had forgotten and even despised by running her friend after pleasure, might have been inclined to pay for this presumptuous compassion to better enjoy their own happiness, no doubt had gone to watch the spectacle of misery that he had caused, to comfort the victim hypocritically.
If this was the correct explanation of the feelings of Zakunine what was the effect her action had occurred in the mind of the Countess? "Loving and loved another man, could have been jealous of the nihilistic, and the powerlessness of the jealous death have occurred?
By contrast, the certainty that the Prince belonged to another, should having served in a free way to believe, despite the seriousness of the commitment had contracted with his conscience: it was unlikely to have said that more would excuse if picked up his word.
But against this arrangement were all his scruples, and the hypothesis Suicide seemed quite natural if the unfortunate had ignored the compassion of Prince was false.
To believe sincere, knowing that the Prince had a new love, must have seen increase the difficulty to correspond to the expectations of candle plant.
But actually know Prince's new love?
Or better, can you really loved Prince to the nihilist?
Ferpierre understood that above all should make sure this view, certainly plausible, but not yet tested.
While the judge was heading to jail Eveche, where the defendants were arrested, was thinking about how to start the interrogation of the young.
The cavalier attitude taken by it the day of the disaster, had inspired the desire and need to be measured almost with that high spirit, to break him and confuse him.
While the guards were searching for the accused to conduct it before the magistrate, the director of the prison referred to it that the attitude of the young woman had been during days of confinement, a person who is not only quiet, but that defies suspicion.
He had complained of the cell and food, had asked to be allowed to read and write, and had actually written a study on Swiss emigration, full of figures and statistical data.
When did it come into the office of director, sat at a Ferpierre sign, and holding the questioning look of it, folded his arms. - It seems that finally has awakened to the memory you! - Began the judge .-- And if facts and figures you provided you in this letter are accurate, I see that your memory is also excellent!
And when they returned to see? - One year later, in Lugano. - Were you alone? - Yes. - Do you know why?
As the young continue silent, Ferpierre continued slowly - Have not you now want to answer? ...
You can not or should not reveal the secrets of their association.
And his silence would you mean Prince Zurich came expressly to work in advertising, to conspire, for political reasons final.
But I warn you before you believe it is necessary to clarify some points obscure.
During the time when, according to you, the Prince was in Zurich for political reasons wrote to him from Russia, England, everywhere, letters that called him, accused him to neglect the cause, he was accused of laxity and almost infamy.
And how do you explain that when Zakunine out Zurich and come here to Ouchy, you had not previously searched, run to him, again Sometimes in a house that was not his, and he found it right there on the day of the disaster? "Nor did you answer now?
Well then, I'll tell you something else: among these letters in which almost is accused of treason, is a friend to a conspiracy to not fall again a weakness that seems to be common: that of being seduced by women, to devote up too much of his time, gallantry ...
If I ask who is this woman, what would you answer me?
Now tell me when was this change in relations between you? - When he came to Zurich. - Did you specifically? - No. - Why then? - For political reasons. - Explain how you made this change in relationships.
As much as the girl tried to control himself, his voice betrayed a secret embarrassment. - So you were the first to speak? - No. - Was it him who said, well, suddenly, after not having thought of you during two years? - He stayed several months in Zurich and we see every day. - You did not know that, after leaving the Countess, came precisely from Zurich for her? - No. - How is it possible?
A moment ago you told me also to ask if he knew the Zakunine relations with Italy, which you did not deal with those things.
Because of his scruples, probably. - "Because I wanted another and could not be yours? - Do not know.
Just a matter of pain.
The young man left, and the judge ordered the release introduced Zakunine.
His attitude in the prison was completely different from that observed for alleged accomplice.
Nothing had asked for himself, no food, special, no books, no paper, nothing had complained, had hardly spoken a word that the guards had passed time lying in bed motionless, as if asleep.
In its general appearance, in their dark circles deep, was visible the work that was done inside, but what did it mortified? "The injustice of the accusation or the remorse of crime?
When Ferpierre Asked if he persisted in his statements, had nothing to add to justified replied in a choked voice: - No. - The other day you recognize your faults, confessed that he had responded to the affection he professed the Countess.
