Put it in an envelope, closed it and went, and gave it to Juan Gonzalez.
Bye it, and opening the door to leave, Father Hurtado stopped him saying: - Wait a minute, bro.
He left his desk, dipped two fingers in holy water font hanging on the wall and played with them the hand of the worker, telling him affectionately; - Go with God!
The Rector of Carrión de la Vega carefully opened the envelope that had just given the keeper, and took the letter from Father Hurtado read it, and without raising his head, looked at Brother over his glasses. - I do not understand this, he said.
It seems workers. - Do not bring any message from word? - Nothing has told me, Father. - Where is this man? - Wait on the net. - I will see him.
Slightly annoyed, the burly Father Rodriguez painstakingly rose from his seat, not without gaze to the pile of letters on his desk waiting for reply, and headed for the goal. - Good afternoon. - Good evening, Father, said Juan Gonzalez, his face lit by hope. - Have you brought this bill of Padre Hurtado? "Yes, Lord. - And you said nothing to tell me in words? - Nada, Padre. - It's weird.
The Rector was surprised.
That a man like Father Hurtado had written those few words, as lack of common sense, was absurd.
In the galleries immediately to the goal Father found the Attorney and the First Mayor, who, seeing his superior up their caps respectfully. - Father Howard has gone mad, Rector said without preamble. - Impossible!
exclaimed at the same time the other two. - So how do you explain that I send this ticket?
asked, and handed the paper to Prefect, who read aloud the following lines: - "Dear Father Rodriguez: I would be grateful to bury the bearer of this.
Brother in Xto.
Alonso Hurtado, SJ " There was silence.
Father Espadaler Minister, had the sanest man in the province could not have written those words.
Instinctively, the three priests went to the net to question Juan Gonzalez sure that it was a joke.
Two wires black blood staining his upper lip, left hand was clenched against his chest.
Similia similibus A LUIS CASTILLO LEDON.
As died the famous homeopath Dr.
Idiáquez, I can preserve the secrecy imposed on me under my word.
Exactly ten years ago began the strange illness that prompted my visit to that optional, and whose rapid healing was the first step of his fame.
From childhood I was sick and weak, so I can say without much exaggeration, that all my children and half my youth were spent in doctors' offices.
Indeed, it was a wonder to all my it was me living relatives.
Just turned thirty years, I began to suffer the most acute headaches imaginable, which every day increased the degree of me real life a martyrdom.
I just rested them in his sleep, and therefore Morfeo which constantly tried to woo.
But the day came that the dream could not even scare my sufferings, and the strangest thing the case was that, as he dreamed of the most fantastic and beautiful, were sharper the pains that tortured me.
Understandably, therefore, that so I wanted to escape the dream, rushing heavy doses of coffee and hoped I longed for death as a liberation.
More, Despite all my efforts to stay awake and horror that I saw come night, finally overcame me sleep, and then presented themselves to my mind the strangest views you can imagine, even in this world inexplicable.
Meteor showers, Kaleidoscope auroras, strange blooms, continuously fills my mind, sometimes over a sea phosphorescent I saw a galleon sailing toward me gold canopy of crimson and scarlet, while indescribable harmony sounded in my ears.
And as, again, that these visions were most beautiful, sharp was the pain that tormented my brain.
And such terror took possession of my soul that not not understand how I ended up in a madhouse.
None of the doctors I consulted my choice was wrong and did not put an end to my days with my own hand, because of my religious principles.
Finally, on the advice not remember what famous physician, determined that several of the most eminent doctors city ??to meet in consultation, and after two hours more painful interrogation, spoke my sentence.
My illness was incurable and would degenerate into madness, the tumor that had formed in my brain was inoperable and death was approaching, albeit slowly.
I left that office as a drunken man.
He said he had often wished for death, however, that day I loved life, despite my horrible suffering.
Seized my mind, as should be expected, I walked to my house for remote streets, afraid to find someone you know.
Suddenly, momentum did not know what set my sights on a small metal plate on the door of a dirty room.
I read the sign: "Dr.
Idiáquez, Homeopath" and almost without thinking about what I did, I entered the house and climbed the rickety ladder.
Idiáquez was an ordinary man and gaunt, and his office a dirty and miserable garret.
Idiáquez with the greatest attention. - The Sickness of you, I said at last, is strange indeed, and comes into effect a tumor that has formed in his brain, but is not only incurable, but I can save him it in three days. - What!
Here you have these cells that will take you every three hours, three of the vial marked A.
I paid the modest fee, and went downstairs quickly, as if flying on the wings of hope.
That night, for the first time, I left my sufferings, but also beautiful dreams fled, and I was tormented by nightmares.
These increased to such an extent in the two following nights, I can assure you that neither Dante could imagine in the deepest Avernus.
At last the longed-Friday, and effectively free of any physical and moral suffering, I climbed the rickety stairs to the office of Dr.
That day I bought a bust of Hahnmann and placed in a prominent place in my library.
Needless to say I think the news of my healing quickly spread throughout the country and Dr.
Idiáquez name soon became famous.
Thereafter, made the most amazing cures, and after a short time, brought a considerable fortune.
What more intrigued by his patients was ever prescribed, but he provided the drugs, usually marked with letters, although sometimes with numbers.
Naturally, he contracted with ties of close friendship and visited him often in his new and luxurious home.
One day I dared to say: - Doctor, long ago I wanted to ask a question. - What is it? - What is blood made up that gave me my wonderful healing? - My friend, that's my secret, but since you will owe my fortune, I tell you, if I promise, if I swear, not to say during my lifetime.
I made the promise required, and with a smile so sad - I've never seen a man's face a sad smile, - said Dr.
Idiáquez slowly - The cells marked "A" is composed of water and sugar, those marked "B" sugar and water.
OLD MASTER A LUIS GARCIA PIMENTEL Sandoval Hernandez family, opulent ten years ago and now almost destitute, was a of the most respectable of Mexico City.
As the main basis of his fortune included the vast estates he owned, from the time of the conquest, known today State of Morelos, fertile region, where it is cultivated with sugar cane preference.
Retain many of the Mexican haciendas in the nature of them knew their strengths former owners, while others, which are not known for its architecture, many, however, natural beauty, all of which makes a visit to one of these farms are not lack generally of interest.
Despite the close friendship between the Sandoval Hernandez with my family, from long years, I had not had occasion to visit any of their estates, though they themselves had spent long periods in ours, located in the center of the country, so that, as offered the opportunity to accompany the child from the home, Antonio and can let go of my not multiple, but necessary chores, I took it gladly so pleasant to go company to tour the main house of his house, famous for its wealth and natural charms.
We left Mexico on the night of August 10 and arrived at dawn to the historic city ??of Puebla de los Angeles.
All the next day we had on board the train, Travel annoyed by the excessive heat could be felt and we all win admiring removed Along the way, rich and diverse in culture and outlook.
And are burdened by high temperature, we arrive at the early hours of the night to small station, whose Indian name I do not remember, and where we expect the Administrator of the farm and several young men, each with horses.
We started walking course, and, either because the night in the field was relatively cool, compared with inconvenience of the railroad, or because I saw near the end of the journey, the journey seemed short.
Shortly after leaving the station, I saw drawn in the shadows of the night skyline the huge mole which formed the famous Hacienda San Javier.
And this figure, fuzzy at first, was quickly defined, allowing to realize, first, high chimney of the mill, then the slender tower and graceful dome of the church, the pockets of rooftops and, in short, all the main details of the building.
Little or nothing had spoken, and assuming that Antonio would teach me the next day all Details of the estate, I refrained from asking questions, but, on entering the huge patio, or rather square, which was outside the building, so I was surprised the strange silhouette of a man on the parapet of the roof, which could not help but exclaim: - Who is that guy who awaits your arrival in such a bizarre attitude?
Because it should be noted that sat on the railing (at imminent risk of falling), and covered with the most exaggerated high top hat.
Antonio laughed and said only: - Ah!
We dismounted from our horses in a wide porch, and after presentations bookkeeping and other dependents of the estate, in the "purge", or main office we went to take a very light dinner, then to cast in the coveted arms of Morpheus.
A small annoyance flitted across the face of my friend, to inform the administrator that most of the rooms in the house were under repair and being painted therefore, were available only to sleep in them, two bedrooms, a small, another, in contrast, vast.
Needless to say I think it was me courtesy of my friend and on entering it was my pleasant surprise to find very fresh, and see that the bed was placed next to a window door that communicated with the broker or open gallery covering the entire front and side of the upper floor of the house.
Measured this corridor about four feet wide by as many of elevation, was vaulted, and the broad arcs outlining the enchanting landscape, the shadows of the night, had a sweetness and serenity rare, perfumed the air with the various plants of those climates.
Despite the fatigue I felt, I spent a short time not in the solitude of that gallery, lost in thought, and a slight ringing in the ears, hear the silence, which only interrupted from time to time, the barking of a dog in the "real" not far away.
I did not know how long it was, when I awoke to the loud cough of a person.
This seemed to be in the corridor, a few paces from me, and I knew immediately that was the "caretaker" that any estate is usually around at night.
As the cough did not abate but, rather, agravábase so that the poor man seemed to be at risk of drowning, jumped out of bed for give help, but what was my surprise when I went to the gallery, to find that no only stopped the cough, but the lamp or whatever, was not there!
Torné to bed and a few moments, the event was repeated with identical results, and two and three times more until I got to assume that the man would be in some remote corner of the corridor, which, being vaulted transmit the echo of a cough, making it heard as if in the very door of my bedroom.
The next morning, reported the ugly incident that disrupted my sleep, wanted Antonio find out who was the watchman who had had such bad night at the gallery, but the manager said flatly that no one, because at that time of complete tranquility was unnecessary The existence of such servant.
And the repeated instances that someone had have been, the defense, after being questioned all the employees and servants, was always the same.
Without giving more importance to the matter, because in fact had little, we started the visit of large building, shadowing strength, convent and cottage all in one, dating from sixteenth century, the magnificent church, whose tower and dome tiles echoed in its rays tropical sun, and the boiler house, or mill itself, a huge building completely modern and, to me, fast interest.
And Unless I burst out laughing at her, sculpted with the utmost rudeness, representing an individual of angular and disproportionate appearance, sitting on the edge of the roof with his legs crossed, below the knees, and hands clapping in attitude.
So nothing missing to this work of art, he found himself smeared from the tip of the hat to exaggerated feet, a bright pink. - Here you go, "said Antonio, who promised to introduce.
As you see, is a work of art.
Herrera called Goya.
To not laugh at a family member, I'll tell you Don Joaquin de Herrera Goya was my ancestor, but not straight, he died unmarried; his sister, my fourth grandmother, he inherited this farm and I do not know if she is to be so beautiful statue.
It is customary to paint each year, and now you see pink, has been painted in blue, yellow, green, anything but black, because the belief is here - things from Indians - that if he were to be painted that color, something terrible would happen.
The position hands indicates not going to applaud, but the distance with them is the size measured of the loaves of sugar were produced on his farm and filled his pockets with doubloons.
The tradition does not have very flattering things to this man, the refer you someday.
He did not stop falling in grace the ridiculous character, and going down to the patio and watch from there I noticed that was located on the corridor, just above the site where that gave access to the door of my bedroom window.
The garden of the property, extensive and fertile, caught my attention for its eastern side, due large part to a pool with a fountain that was in it
