but times will come better.
After the bad always comes good.
Same thing could lose one another, because they were both at sea.
Against what everyone presumed, not made a deep impression.
On the contrary, from that day on it a trend señalóse to cheer, and participate in social commerce, not surprisingly, left in the population.
Began visiting the homes of friends, to appear in the cafe, walking through the streets, to chat, discuss.
He did not talk about leaving.
Until, with great astonishment of the village, one of the dances that took place in the Lyceum, danced all night as a pollastre that pisase the room first.
However, Cecilia was very restless.
Animation that his brother was so untimely, more like a nervous breakdown.
Above all, the strange smile, like a grimace, that was falling from the lips to read the newsletter of the Young Sarrio, made her shudder at times.
Then came what was natural.
After that insane excitement, wine, after a few days a deep, dark depression.
He spent three without leaving your room, not just dish test some of which Cecilia had, and what is even worse, unable to sleep.
With open eyes and ecstatic, he spent hours and hours lying in bed, looking at darkness.
On the third night, at about three light lit, dressed and started writing a long letter to his uncle.
Then he wrote another one with about Cecilia.
Closed and placed on the table first, so that they look suddenly pulled out a cigarette, lit it in the light spark plug, and began pacing the room.
He opened the desk drawer and pulled out the revolver which he kept there.
Brought to light saw that was downloaded, which does not fail to surprise.
He was almost certain to have loaded For a month, more or less.
He soon remembered that Cecilia had been with him in the hand, and a sweet smile sad and drew on his lips.
He went to get their hands on guns.
The cartridges were missing from their site.
He remained motionless and pensive long time.
Then, as if awakening from a dream, he shook his head and sighed.
He put on his hat, opened the door and down the stairs with great secrecy.
Passing the door of the main floor, hit her ear.
He had clearly heard the voice of his wife calling him from inside.
After the hallucination, continued to fall, opened the outer door with the key hanging pin, and hit the streets.
Had not yet dawned, but in the East seemed a faint precursor of the day clearly.
A water falling from the sky fog menudísima marina.
He climbed to the second wall and looked at the sea, whose horizon at that time was not very long, because of the fog.
The previous days had blown the northwest, and had curled and stirred up the bottom.
Big waves spreading swollen from afar their riding huge roar and crashed against the front of the Pawn, spitting the foam to the top.
The boy's eyes encountered a tender that was entering the port and danced like a walnut shell on the waves.
Continued every twist and turn with eager attention, as if it will be something.
After fourth time, when it was moored to the dock, he felt the spur new thinking.
