They simultaneously call attention drama actors and spectators.
Among the former, the Sword is the first suitor, the second sword its protagonist, the bull is the big beard terrible, the choppers are auxiliary frame, and capeadores and helpers of all kinds are the phalanx lucida of extras.
Frankly, the bull, fighting back a hundred enemies, I found the character more beautiful, more worthy of admiration and interest.
All of them, which best distinguished by the originality, the luxury or the picturesque dress.
But their roles are very uneven.
The sword represents the sublime of barbarism, the Picador, the perfection of bestiality, the simple or Capeador torero, the simple union of daring, agility and grace.
The capeador, very elegantly dressed (nice style) is reduced to cause the bull, get sets, driving to the scene of a decisive battle and have fun.
Is the courtier's sword, assistant, his lackey pedestrian.
The chopper, a knight on a horse skeleton rather than a horse, his legs aforradas on tablets of iron and pants with very strong and provided with a long spike, is presented in front of the bull, looking for, harass, bites without pity or fear, and looks like a robot the tremendous blow of the angry beast.
As the rubble horse that walks is blindfolded and can not defend themselves, for lack of strength and agility, when the barb of the chopper does not stand to contain the thrust of the bull, the devoted itself on the wretched horse, he sharpened up sinking the chest and abdomen, apart and throws him a few paces away, leaving the chopper lying on the ground, no defense under the bloody and confused mass of horse and bull.
This, more generous man, retires and find another enemy, seldom preys on a victim.
In addition, falling a picador all bullfighters come to save him, and dropped like a statue is raised because his legs, splints as they are, have no movement.
Shake his point, and if the horse do not dead right for the chopper mount again.
When that set was repeated three or four or more occasions, the show is so obnoxious as unclean.
A few men, blood stained and dusty, they shake like hell, with the tenacity of petulance on walking corpses that drag or shake in a movement of the intestines agony all the horns of the beast has broken and made forth by wide wounds ....
There comes the time of slaughter the bull, and the trumpets announce the funeral with a touch passed through the nerves and blood a deep chill of terror and compassion.
The Sword king of the scene, but does not come into action to kill the bull.
Provides the lot was a character choose a site, groping his gun, picks up his plush crimson cloak, his cap thrown to the wind, squeeze the bun hairpiece and looks with serenity to the beast, conducted with skill by courtiers come to accept the mortal combat ....
The bright luxury and uniqueness of dress, the pride of his terrible ride and expertise of its functions, the most dangerous make the sword, in the eyes of the Spanish, a hero, a demigod of death, a kind bloody artist, if I may use the expression heretical violence! ...
The bull comes along and, as if sensing the imminent danger, he refuses at first the formal attack.
Perhaps then guess that if it does not die heroically, or if not kill, awaits the pain infamous of the cheek.
Accepts the sword, measuring his enemy with a look of fire, he apostrophe with a sparkling puff, standing a moment the formidable neck, dig sand with utmost despair and anger, and attacks like a hurricane ....
The sword defends himself three or four sets, almost motionless, and the beast, and desiring to put an end to their struggle and martyrdom returns to the side of his antagonist, lowers his head, comes in a flash of steel broke out a huge cry of thousands of mouths, they sound the trumpets, and is, to dissipate dust, the great dark mass of a body like a boulder at the foot of a man who takes his sword from the heart and loins of the victim, and clean quietly against pounding the rough skin of debris ....
