When it does not sink the world events such, probably will not ever sink ...
Beyond the stables tried again with reasons and cries soften the hearts of his keepers.
But they complied with an order the head, and if not met, they would throw Respice medium.
Almudena silent, walking agarradito at the foot of Benin, and seemed disgusted with the collection and deposit of begging driving.
If I cried the poor candidate, not least the sky was crying, agreeing with her dark sadness, as the drizzle began to fall at the time of collection grew to be heavy rain, which put it head to toe loss.
The clothes of both dripping beggar; Almudena mushroom hat seemed the top piece of the source of the Tritons, little and to have lacked moss.
Benina lightweight footwear, shattered by the long walk of those days, it was falling to pieces in the ponds and bogs in which they got.
When arrived in San Bernardino, thought the old lady better be barefoot. 'Amri - Almudena told when pierced the door sad Municipal Asylum - yorar not you ...
Here it tigo me ...
In his desolation, he would not answer Benina.
And if she did the favor of release the next day, what reasons, what lies explain his long absence, his sudden disappearance?
What could I say or what his invention out of fertile imagination?
But it could happen that I did not believe Dona Francisca, and be broken up the bond of friendship that united them as old, and if the lady was really angry, throwing on their side, Nina would die of grief, because I could not live without Doña Paca, whom he loved his good qualities and very nearly their defects.
Anyway, after thinking about all this, and when placed in a large room, choked, fetid, where there was already a fifty of elderly men and women, ended lie in the loving arms of resignation, saying: "Whatever God wants.
As time went on, but the maid came back home, growing anxiety of the housekeeper, who, if at first he missed his partner for the lack in the material that was soon grew restless, thinking about the misfortune that would have happened: fuck car, eg, or sudden death in the street.
Frasquito sought to reassure the good, but to no avail.
And the old man's faded silent when his fellow would say, "But if it never happened this, ever, wanted to Ponte!
Doña Paca Truth lost all appetite, and the same, or slightly less, was happening to their host.
But as had no choice but to take something to support the forces, both were handed an egg beaten with wine and a few pieces of bread.
The lady was counting the hours, half and quarter of the night watches in the neighborhood, and did more than measure the passage end to end, listening to the sounds of the ladder.
Ponte not to be outdone: gallantry forced him to not lie down while his friend and protector was awake, and to reconcile the obligations of the knight with his ailing fatigue, beheaded a couple of little dreams in a chair.
To adopt a view that was violent, with pillow arms, crossed over the back, and sleep is hung her head, of what occurred torticollis tremendous next morning.
At the dawn of God, overcome the fatigue Doña Paca, dormidita stayed on the couch.
Spoke in dreams, and his body shook from time to time with nervous tremors.
Awoke shocked, believing he thieves at home, and on a clear day, with the void of absence Nina, I was more sad and lonely night.
According Frasquito, which in this thought wisely, no trace seemed safer to be informed of the gentlemen in whose house served Benin assistant.
I had thought about her countrywoman also the previous evening, but as ignorant the number of the house of D.
Romualdo across the street from the Loam, determined not to take investigations.
In the morning, having given the goalkeeper to inquire the whereabouts of the missing servant, he was sent with the order, and time again saying that in any goal of such street gave reason.
And all these, not in the house rather than some other cooked the day before, almost vinegary already, and crusts of bread.
Thanks to the neighbors aware of the conflict so severe offered the illustrious widow some food: East, garlic soup, that, fried cod, the other an egg and half a bottle of bully.
There was nothing to eat, making a brave, because nature does not hold: it must live, although the soul object, fond her friend's death.
Slow passing hours of the day, and both Ponte and his compatriot could not attention away from the noise of footsteps sounded on the stairs.
But many disappointments suffered, that at last, exhausted and hopeless, they sat facing each other, silent, with rest and severity of sphinxes, and looking at the solution tacitly conferred enigma to the divine will.
Already know the whereabouts of Nina, or the reasons for his absence, when God deigned to make them known by the media and ways that never reaches our forecast.
Lady Ronda and Algeciras heartthrob jumped, like rubber dolls in their seats. "No, not her - said Dona Paca with great disappointment -.
To open the child.
Caledonia, run to open, and find it: if it is one that we Nina brings news that happens.
Ponte rolled over several times top on one foot, and Doña Paca rose and fell back in his chair about ten times saying: "What happens ...
Romualdo home! ...
Happens, girl ...
My black skirt. " Between Algeciras and the girl was dressed in a bad way, and haste will put the clothes backwards.
The lady was impatient, calling them stupid and giving kicking.
Finally arranged in any way, passes a comb through his hair, and went tumbling into the parlor where waiting for the priest, standing, looking at photographs of people in the family, only decoration the mean and stay poor. "Excuse me, Mr.
Romualdo - Zapata's widow said that the excitement could not be standing, and had to throw himself into a chair, after the priest kiss the hand -.
Thanks God I can express to you my gratitude for his unfailing kindness. - It's my duty, ma'am "said the cleric ...-- some surprise - and nothing you to thank me. - And tell me now, by God - added the lady, so afraid of hearing bad news, which could hardly talk -; me know soon.
Will be, or not what you suppose. - Nina, Nina of my soul! - Is anyone in your family, your privacy?
Romualdo not tell me the truth not to increase my trouble, I'll thank you infinity ...
I will not bring you good news or bad of the person who cries, nor do I know which person is that, nor on what grounds you to believe me ... - Excuse me, Mr.
Benina I thought, my maid, my friend and companion rather had suffered a serious accident at his home in you, or leave it, or on the street, y. .. - What else? ...
The language it hit the palate, and looked at D.
Romualdo with terrified eyes. "Not to scare you, ma'am.
On the contrary: I have the satisfaction of communicating Dona Francisca Juarez the end of their sufferings.
The Lord, who has proved beyond doubt and more than compliance and resignation, now wants to reward these virtues, pulling it to you the sad situation that has lived so many years. " Dona Paca fell a trickle of tears from every eye, and not manage to utter a word.
What would be your emotion, which surprise and joy that was erased from his mind the image of Benin as if the absence and loss of this incident was happened many years ago! "I understand - continued the good priest straightened his body and his chair closer to with his hand touching the arm of Dona Francisca - I understand your condition ...
No passes abruptly bad luck on the well-being, without feeling a strong jolt.
And since it is important thing, which should preferably occupy their attention, talk about it, lady, leaving for later the other issue that worries ...
This phrase taken back to the spirit of Doña Paca the idea of ??Nina and her mysterious feeling disappearance.
Noting the look and D.
Romualdo benevolent intent and optimistic led to believe that the good Lord, after dispatching the present case, we speak of For the elderly, which certainly was not very serious.
Soon the mind of the lady vane quick turn around the idea of ??inheritance, and she grabbed it, leaving everything else into oblivion, and noting the priest report anxiety, hastened to meet it. - Well, you know that poor Rafael passed away on February 11 ... - I did not know, no, sir.
God has given you your break ...
The last years he lived in a farmhouse called the Higueras Juarez ... - I know.
That farm was my grandfather. - Exactly: D.
His pride was stronger than his complexion very strong.
Challenged the showers, hunger and thirst ...
Well You see that oak break like a reed.
A few months after falling ill he could count the bones through the skin ...
But when I learned the seriousness of our beloved friend, I stood there ...
One month I accompanied him and attended ...
These woes were sighs Dona Paca popped out of the soul, like birds escaping from an open cage on all four sides.
With noble sincerity, while petting in his mind the probable inheritance, was associated with mourning D.
Romualdo for the generous Ronda bachelor. 'Well, Madam, died as a devout Catholic after a will ... - Ah ... - In which leaves the third of his estate to his niece in the second degree, Clemencia Sopelana You know?
the wife of D.
Rodrigo del Quintanar, brother of the Marquis de Guadalerce.
The two-thirds the intended part of a pious foundation, partly to improve the situation some of his relatives by family misfortunes, bad business or other adverse and setbacks, have been less.
You and your children being found in this case, of course which are the most favored, y. .. - Ah ...
With this outpouring was in tears the unfortunate Dona Francisca, clasping his hands and putting knees, the good priest, fearing that such sensitivity ended up in a tantrum, came to the door, clapping for someone to come ask for a glass of water.
XXXIII Frasquito himself came to the aid of the water, and D.
Romualdo, as the lady drank and recovered from her emotion, told the deranged knight: "If I'm correct, I have the honor to talk to D.
Francisco Delgado Ponte ...
Algeciras natural ...
When I Ronda was in the year 56, shortly before the fall of Espartero, he was a child, and size.
Congeniábamos in everything except one thing: he was very rural, very loving rustic life, and I hate the countryside and trees.
I was always a man of populations, large populations ... - Sit down here - he said D.
Romualdo, with such strong slap on an old chair springs, which he arose a thick cloud of dust.
A moment later, he had heard the luncheon gallant participation in heritage Rafael's cousin, bewildered by staying in such a way that had to drink, to avoid Faint, let all the water Dona Francisca.
It is well to note now is the perfect match between the person of the priest and his Kidron name because of the stature, strength and even the color could be compared a big cedar trees that among men, looking at each other's characters, there are also similarities and relationships.
Tallud is cedar, and also beautiful, noble, wood somewhat brittle, but pleasant and fragrant.
For as was D.
Romualdo: Grandon, stocky sunburnt, and at the same time excellent person, of irreproachable conduct in the church, Hunter, man of the world to the extent it can be a healing, peaceful genius, persuasive speech, tolerant of human frailties, charitable, merciful, in short, procedures orderly arrangement and good as well got along with his position well off
