Even the mayor was here, to serve on what was good.
And the police, excellent boys who live among us and are almost family, hacíanse aside, understanding the situation and not wanting to miss a few poor. - To earth, boys - screaming our pattern -.
The Socarrao already know this evil out of step.
And cloth unfolded almost rammed the beach, digging the bow into the sand.
Lord, what way of working!
A wave of flooding to snuff Torresalinas, seeping into every home.
The mayor intervened paternally. - Men, too - said the pattern -.
Our master was satisfied. - Well: do a few packages with two bundles of the worst sting.
And he went into town, taking in the chest all the documents of the boat.
It seemed that the boat had left legs.
Was out of the water and dragged by sand in the middle of that crowd seethed and work, animated with happy cries. - What a disappointment!
The poor man groaned of sharp pain with every movement, but swallowed the tears and laughed too as the others, seeing that the cargo was saved and thinking of that disappointment which made everyone laugh.
When the last bales were lost in the streets of Torresalinas began the plunder of the boat.
The crowd took the sails, anchors, oars, to dismantle the mast, was loaded on the shoulders of a crowd of boys, leading him in procession to the other end of people.
The boat was made a pontoon, as bare as you see it.
The Socarrao is disfigured Roma as a donkey.
With four strokes was erased the name of stern and folios the sides of those damn signs, which are the charter of any vessel, was not trace.
The striker dropped anchor at the same time disappearing into the edge of town the past remains of the boat.
I stood on this site, wanting to see everything, and more openly helped some friends who were putting to sea a fishing boat.
The striker sent an armed boat, and jumped to the ground do not know how many men with a rifle and bayonet.
The boatswain, who was leading, swore furiously looking at the Socarrao and carabinieri, who had seized him.
Is dirty lot of paper and half the town was to testify, but nobody knew anything.
And nobody knew more. - And the cargo? "- I said. - I completely sold.
You do not know what poverty is.
When stranded, each grabbed the bundle that was at hand and ran to hide at home.
But the day were all available following the pattern: not lost even a pound of snuff.
The exposing the bread of life and every day you see the face of death, are freer temptations than others ... - Since then - continued the old man - who is here imprisoned Socarrao poor.
But do not take in going to sea with his old master.
Seems to have completed paperwork, bring him out to auction and it will be the pattern for what you want to. - What if another more? - Who has to be that?
To each what is his: the sea, which is of God, to us poor, we have to remove the bread from him, but does not want the government.
The dummy Nine years had passed since Louis Santurce was separated from his wife.
After he had been involved in silk and tulle at the bottom of elegant carriage, passing before him in a flash beauty, or had guessed from the paradise of Real, down there in a box, surrounded of men who were fighting the murmuring something in her ear to show off an intimacy smiling.
These events removed in all the sediment of the last wrath had fled forever his wife as a patient who fears the resurgence of their ailments, and yet, now would to meet, to see it and speak it at the hotel de la Castellana, which was insolent luxury the witness of his disgrace.
The rough movements rental car seemed to blow past memories from all corners of his memory.
That life did not want to remember, was developing with your eyes closed: their honeymoon modest employee married to a beautiful woman, educated, daughter of a family fallen on hard times, the joy of that first year of poverty sweetened by affection, then tossing Enriqueta protests against the narrowness, the deaf displeasure at being called beautiful by all and be humbly dressed, the troubles emerging for the slightest reason, the brawls at midnight in the marital bedroom, the gnawing suspicion Gradually confidence husband, and suddenly the unexpected rise, material wealth slipping through the door, timidly at first, and avoiding the scandal, then insolent display, as believing enter a world of blind people, until they finally Louis had the unquestionable proof of his misfortune.
It was not a coward was sure of it, but lacked the will or loved him too, and therefore, when after an embarrassing intelligence was convinced of his disgrace, he knew only raise the clenched hand that beautiful doll face pale, and ended up not strike a blow.
Only had the strength to throw the house and mourn as an abandoned child just closed the door.
Then complete solitude, the monotony of isolation, interrupted by news that they hurt.
His wife was traveling through central Europe as a princess, a millionaire had released, this was their very existence, for what he was born.
A winter call attention in Paris, the newspapers talked about the beautiful Spanish, and his triumphs on the beaches were noisy fashion, tried to ruin an honor for her, and several duels and certain rumors of suicide were around his name a legend environment.
After three year would be triumphant, returned to Madrid, its beauty enhanced by the strange charm of cosmopolitanism.
Now protect the richest businessman in Spain, and in his splendid court ruled on a hotel only for men: ministers, bankers, political influence, characters of all classes who sought his smile as the best of his decorations.
So great was his power, until Luis believed to feel around him, seeing that political situations were happening without being touched their jobs.
The fear to fight for the sustaining life made him accept this situation, in which sensed the hidden hand Harriet.
Solo and sentenced to work for a living, I felt, however, the shame of wretch whose only claim to be the husband of a beautiful woman.
Was worthless running away when its path, insolent and triumphant in his disgrace, to escape persecution those eyes that were fixed on him with surprise, pride of women losing their coveted.
One day he received a visit from an old priest and timid-looking, the same who now sat with him in the car.
He was the confessor of his wife.
When you say who sent him, Luis could not contain himself: "Valiente such, 'and let the insult round.
But the good old imperturbable as he brings learned discourse and are afraid to forget if it is slow release, he spoke of Magdalena sinful, the Lord that being who he was, had forgiven him and passing to the plain style and natural, had transformation suffered by Harriet.
I was sick, barely out of his hotel, a disease that gnawed her womb, a cancer that had to be tamed with continuous injections of morphine for did not faint and roar of pain with his cruel scratches.
Misfortune had have turned their eyes to God repented of the past, wanted to see ...
And always so beautiful, right?
It was useless arguments that seek healing.
Could visit whenever he wanted and give news of his wife: that he was very happy and now understand why men are bad.
Since then the priest visited him almost every evening, smoking a few cigars, speaking of Harriet, and sometimes went out together, walking on the outskirts of Madrid old friends.
The disease progressed rapidly convinced that Harriet was going to die.
Wanted him to beg his forgiveness, calling it a tone of whimsical and ill child requiring a toy.
To the other, the powerful protector, gentle disposition despite his omnipotence, he begged the priest to take them to the hotel to the husband of Harriet.
The good old man spoke with fervor of the conversion touching the lady, although admitting that the cursed estate, loss of so many souls, still dominated.
Her illness was a prisoner in her home, but at times of calm, when the rogue pain did not go back and forth like crazy, flipping through catalogs and figurines in Paris, wrote to its suppliers there, and rare was the week that did not reach drawers with the latest news: costumes, hats and jewelry, after targeted and hands a day in the closed room, fell into the corners or hiding forever in closets, and useless toys.
For all these fads going the other, provided to see Harriet smiling.
These confidences were continuing to slowly penetrate Luis in the life of his wife was by far the course of their disease and not a day passed without rozase with that mentally being, we had departed forever.
A priest was later presented with unusual energy.
This lady was in the past, we called aloud, was a crime to deny the last consolation to a dying, and he does not consented.
He felt able to take it by force.
In pursuit of the black cassock crossed the garden of the hotel many times, going by the immediate walk, had spied with looks of hate ...
And now tenderness he felt under his feet, the beautiful colors by sliding his eyes, the flowers that greeted him with her perfume from the corners, an intoxication causábanle eunuch and felt impulses to lie in that furniture, to take possession, as if he belonged, being of his wife.
Now he understood what was wealth, and how hard hung over their slaves.
Was already on the first floor, and had not even seen, in the solemn quiet hotel, none of these details is revealed in death as they enter a home.
Saw as impassive mask reared after thought he saw a gesture of insolent curiosity: a girl greeted him with enigmatic smile, it was not known whether it was sympathy or mockery "The husband of the lady", he believed distinguished in an adjoining room a man who was hiding (Maybe it was the other), and stunned by this new world, went through a door, gently pushed for his guidance.
Was in the bedroom of the lady: a room engulfed in soft shadows, ripping a strip of sun filtering through a balcony ajar.
In the midst of this beam of light was a straight woman, slender, pink, dressed in a beautiful soirée dress, the pearly emerging from behind clouds of lace, and chest and head with the dazzling sparkle of the jewels.
Luis !...-- groaned behind him a weak voice, with intonation and gentle child, reminding him the past, the best moments of his life.
His eyes, already accustomed to the darkness, saw in the back of the room something monumental and terrible as an altar, a bed stands, and which, under the undulating curtains, incorporating work was a white figure.
Then he noticed the motionless woman, who seemed to wait with her slender stiff and his eyes of vague look like blurred by tears.
The best served to consider developments that continuously received Paris.
It was the only actor in the representations of elegance and wealth that was given alone a remedy for his illness. - Luis ...
Luis !...-- groaned again the little voice from the bottom of the bed.
Sadly it was Luis to her to be grasped by arms that tightened convulsively and feel a burning mouth seeking hers, imploring forgiveness, while a cheek received the warm touch of tears. - Say you forgive me, say it, Luis, and I may not die.
And the husband, who instinctively tried to repel it, ended up throwing themselves into those arms, unwittingly repeating the same loving words of the happy times.
And I'm not as beautiful as in our times of happiness ...
when I still was not crazy.
Beautiful, always beautiful, her beauty and innocent child that made it so scary.
The death was not yet there: only between the soft perfume Sovereign of the meat of this majestic bed, seemed to slip a subtle and distant mist of dead, which gave away the rotting interior mixing in her kisses.
Luis divined the presence of someone behind him.
A man was walking distance, contemplating with a confused expression, as if drawn there by a superior boost to the will that he was ashamed.
Harriet's husband knew, on average nationwide, the stern face of that man and entered years, a man of sound principles, great defender of public morals. - Tell him to go, Luis! - Cried the sick -.
I just want you you ...
I just want my husband.
was luxury, luxury damned: I needed money, a lot of money, but love ...
Cried Henrietta showing his repentance, and the man wept, weak and humble with contempt.
And the community on affection rather than repel, linking the husband and the other with sympathy strange. - Let him go, let her go - repeating the sick with a stubborn child.
And her husband watched the powerful man with pleading, as if asking forgiveness for his wife, not knowing what he said. - Come on, Mrs.
Henrietta - said from the back of the room the voice of the priest -.
The two men, the husband and the guard, ended up sitting by the bedside of the sick.
The pain was roaring, we had to give frequent injections, and the two went solicitous their care.
Several times he stumbled his hands to incorporate Harriet, not separated instinctive revulsion, but rather, helped with effusion fraternal.
Luis was increasingly sympathetic to that good man, so smooth treatment despite their million, and that his wife was crying even more than him
