After he had saluted, Gonzalo went to sit by Pablito, and passing his hand familiarly over his shoulder, whispered: - What is your favorite?
And bending over his future brother-nailed an intense look in Venturita, corresponding her with something very unique.
Then both the converted Cecilia.
If you know you're the prettiest! - Said the other visible chopped. - Peace, peace, ladies! - Truth .-- Gonzalo said Paul began talking of the perfections Nieves, but it is also true that she would continue with all other, if not would have stopped ...
This raised his head and looked at him with mocking scowl that was funny character to his face. - Be careful, Nieves, that these gentlemen are out of sight.
Paul, ignoring the interruption, continued: - After Teresa and Encarnacion, Elvira and Generous.
Venturita also speak (for put it, of course, by the feet of the horses).
Cecilia no, because it is committed, and some would also say my lady Dona Paula, that, without offending anyone, is the most beautiful of all. - What a rascal! - Said it admired the grace of his son.
Paul had risen from his chair and hugged his mother with effusion. - Remove, remove, flatterer! - "She laughed. - Go loosening his pocket, Mom - Venturita said. - You see!
Houndstooth ever - said the young man angrily, turning her head his sister, while she laughed maliciously without lifting his frame. - Many have worked - Gonzalo said softly, sitting next to his girlfriend. - So, so - Cecilia said fixing her large eyes full of light. - A lot, yes, yesterday I had this pink embroidery ...
I say, I think it's pink ... - It's jasmine. - Neither the two leaves. - Bah!
Cecilia continued to move the needle blank. - What is it that overboard? - Gonzalo said aloud, the higher, thinking that he had not heard. - A sheet ...
We must not approach this Valentina; rises from behind - said the handsome young man.
The simile, though nothing cult, and perhaps for that reason, made me laugh to the seamstresses. - Valentina does not like the gentlemen - said Encarnacion. - You are right, the gentlemen will not take off more than parola, lost time and sometimes unfortunately lifetime - Donà said Paula forgetting that she had taken happiness .-- Concerning to that, Sarrió is lost.
There are hardly any girl who is left to accompany one of his equal.
The boy has to bring at least a tie and fungus, and smoking has nozzle ...
although it has no plate to eat.
Nothing is hidden, and to go at dusk accompanied by a gentleman, and just around the pilgrimages to see them come da grime clinging to them takes singing high ...
Do not know what awaits you.
For the son of Don Rudesindo married Esguila Pepe and the pilot of Mechacan Trinity, I figure that is the whole mountain is oregano.
The craftsmen of this village are so lying to lose!
If a sailor, he is seen once every year, brings four quarters, and pulled again there.
The rooms are completed, and the unfortunate woman is dragged, working to give a piece of bread to their children ...
And then what do they know of to estimate even a bit of grace women?
If they go with her one Sunday afternoon, will stop at every tavern the road, leaving, if the opportunity arises, the poor girl at the door, or call to hear some nonsense, which puts more than a poppy red ...
The other day I found to Tomasina ...
already know, Uncle Rufus, who does even a year married a Prospero's official ...
Well, at that moment was a real home for two of his father to buy bread, because in all that day had not eaten a bite.
Her husband drinks most of the wage, and half weeks, of course!
I did not get into that, but removing the credit do not come to raptors your equal ...
More than a gentleman and more than two I've seen goats come as home ...
And beat their women, even those who stick ...
If they do not have the long tongue, do not carry the half the time ...
Serves, and Don Ramon, the music teacher when she came home for "biscuits night was his wife?
What you should know ...
lived very close. - My dear, I do not speak for everyone - said Teresa subsiding by the fear that his wayward partner deliver him to light the night accompanying Donato Red, Medical Health, - only I say that there is gross ... - Well, let them alone and do not remember them, they do not remember you.
Each is each, and the most and the least know where the water flows from the mill. - Listen, Valentina - Elvira said grinning - when you marry, do you think carry Cosme? - If deserve the take ...
More want to take a couple times in my contempt Cosme a gentleman, rising! - I like that, learn, learn, little girls! - Pablito said.
Gonzalo, after a moment of whispered conversation with his girlfriend, got up, took three or four laps around the room, and sat down beside Venturita, with whom I used to have revelry.
Both liked to tease and frolic after the trust was born.
The girl I was drawing some letters for embroidery. - Do not come to mock, Gonzalo.
We know that bad drawing - said stabbing a provocative look, bolt, forcing the young to lower theirs. - It is true that, do not draw wrong - he said softly, shaking slightly, bringing face to the role Venturita her lap. - Pure gallantry.
It's pretty good. - You'll make very flattering.
I do not want to laugh at me, do you hear? - Oh!
I laugh at anyone ...
but much less than you ...-- he said without looking up paper, his voice growing low and visibly shaken.
He planted the book, which she had in her lap, on his knees, applied over white paper, and began to draw.
But instead of letters, began to draw with ease the head of a woman.
First the hair parted into two braids, then the forehead and beautiful, then a delicate nose, small mouth, his beard trimmed admirably united to the throat by a smooth curve and elegant ...
This, resting on the shoulder of his future brother, followed the movements of the pen.
Slowly it expanded a smile on his face vain.
After outlining the head, Gonzalo continued with the bust.
He put the hairdresser or the girl wearing matinee, and entertained good while carefully drawing silk ties that are holding ahead.
Venturita accent told picaresque: - Now, who is put under.
The young man raised his head and smiling eyes clashed.
Then, with brilliance and decision wrote under the picture: What I love most in the world.
Venturita took the paper in his hands and stared for a moment with pleasure.
Then with a grimace of disdain handed it back saying: - Take, take, liar.
But before reaching the hands of Gonzalo, Cecilia extended his and snatched him laughing. - What are those pieces of paper?
Seeing her in that way, the laughter that shook his chest suddenly paralizóse Cecilia, and opening her large eyes which was painted surprise, exclaimed: - Jesus!
You look crazy, girl.
But at that moment appeared at the door of Don Rosendo with multicolored robe velvet hat with silk tassel. - What? - Asked amazed watching his wife's angry attitude.
This will put the current, choked with sobs, the lack of respect for his daughter.
Don Rosendo was believed in the case of frown, and say solemnly: - That's wrong, Ventura.
Go to apologize to your mom.
He knew he was distracted, absorbed in some thought, and that domestic incident could not wring more than half of their concern.
However, to see the girl still in haughty and dismissive, he said again, more firmly - Come, daughter, go to ask for forgiveness, because you have offended.
The girl made his peculiar grimace of contempt in his lips, and whispered softly: - Yes, that's what I'm thinking! - Go, Ventura, what muttering there?
Go, before I get angry. - Go, go, Venturita.
Venturita rose from his chair, went through the middle of the upright and sulking competition, and went the room making a big bang.
Don Rosendo, after remaining motionless for a moment with eyes fixed on the door where his daughter had gone, he turned, saying: - I'm sorry to be so strong with my daughters ...
but sometimes no choice.
VII THAT IS OF TWO TRAITORS Sudden blurred pseudomarítima his noble face the fearful expression that darkened and appeared distracted again that another sign of constant meditation. - Gonzalo, if you do not mind, I ask you to pierce me at the office - said addressing to his future son.
This, that during the previous scene was pale and returned to his being repeatedly turned at confusing.
Nothing less struck him that Rosendo was unaware of the instability their feelings of love, and I would ask it close consideration.
Was, therefore, behind his head bowed and suspicious, and entered the desktop.
It was a spacious room, furnished with rich merchant class: large solid mahogany table, mahogany cabinets, too, where there bundles of papers more than books, velvet carpet, couches lined with brocade, and massive silver inkstand as a monument.
About a quarter of this camera ocupábalo a lot of packets wrapped in several colors, to whoever first Once entered into it, would be a mystery.
Gonzalo was not for or to any of the intimate of the house.
No, Don Rosendo not traded with them, make them.
And this not to speculate, unworthy of its kind, but pure and selfless inclination of his spirit.
From a very young man had told him.
The regulars trade occupations and the vicissitudes through which he passed his existence, had not consented to meet this passion but in a materially poor at times lost.
But since she could leave the desktop to some of the faithful entrusted dependent entregóse full heart and soul a distraction so helpful and honest.
In the morning at the store Graells, in the afternoon Saloncillo in the evening at home or in the Don Pedro Miranda, always working.
His servant occupied much of the day in court a few blocks of dry hazel perfectly equal, where his right hand had to take the show of the sticks.
And was not about to rest, even on holidays, production was excessive.
There were not enough consumers in the village, and saw packages needed to recall them friends of the capital, when the pile reached the ceiling clearance.
Thanks to the efforts noblest of the clear representative of their trade, we can proudly say that Sarrio in this interesting field of progress, was at the height of the big cities.
No other Spanish town or foreign competition could suffer with it.
Home of the rich, as in the artisan, never missing a well-stocked toothpick, undisputed testimony the refined culture of its inhabitants.
Rosendo said a couch to his son in infancy, and he was frightened and let himself fall into it sinking deeply.
After the trader approached a chair with an air of mystery, and sitting front of the young and looking between smiling and embarrassed, he said, giving the same time a pat on the thigh - Let's see, Gonzalito: how about the issue of slaughter? - Is the slaughter? - Said it opened his eyes wide as fists. - Yes, the new slaughterhouse, do you think should be placed in the dump, or on the beach of Meanas behind the houses of Don Rudesindo?
Gonzalo saw heaven opened, and, smiling with pleasure, he replied: - I believe that the Meanas beach would be nice ...
u-na do-da-de-ra in-sen-sa-skinned - all the best pointing repeated syllables. - And this opinion of mine - he said - do not go to refiguring it yesterday morning, but throughout life.
Since I was able to understand certain things, I realized that the slaughterhouse would not be where is today.
An inner voice always told me that the dump.
Before you can give any scientific reason, I was as convinced as that there was now located, and not elsewhere.
Now that the resolution of the problem approaches, I think I have to hold this view, to communicate my thoughts to the people and the result of my musings.
If you do not have to do I will read your letter I am writing Progress on this occasion the Lancia.
And indeed, without waiting for the answer to Gonzalo, he went to the table, picked up a specification paper that was on it, put on his glasses, and stood on the balcony gave beginning, not without some emotion that is reflected by the voice, reading the letter.
Commercial paper was written in large, striped.
All that for years led the Advancement of Lancia and other newspapers in the capital of the province, were written in the same role on both sides.
Although he did not know that the press was written by a only.
Almost simultaneously with that of toothpicks Rosendo was born in Belinchón the fans to write press releases to newspapers: that is, dating from a remote antiquity.
Ardent supporter of human progress, reforms at all levels, from the discussion and light, it is clear that the press had to command respect and enthusiasm.
Newspapers had always been an essential element of their existence.
He was signed to many national and foreign, because, as taught to trade, was well acquainted with French and English and had never missed, even in the busiest days, a couple of hours to spend to read.
These times are significantly increased for some years, but not that it would suffer by cod.
The enjoyment that our hero felt in the morning after taking the chocolate swallowing the substantive articles of the national flag, the Loose Politics and the Nouvelles à la main of Figaro was so vivid, it was printed long in the face until the radiation was being lost in the atmosphere.
Like all men of broad and lofty view, it was not exclusive in their tastes newspaper.
He loved the daily newspaper, as a kind shows the progress of human reason or as he put it best, "a demonstration raised public awareness." Opinions which each defended, were a secondary.
If you showed any predilection, it was only for the items loose meaning.
