Don Jaime was thus reduced to spend hours sitting watching play and giving players do not appreciated advice.
Used to pay the greedy cup of rum.
And the truth is that fattened fiercely this singular enjoyment.
And knew it was useless to seek the help of American gold.
But the Indians have tough skin and despised such outbursts.
I know you've arrived yesterday.
All I'm saying is that this results from the data that I presented the baritone.
I'll tell you right away salaries (counting on fingers).
The tenor, six dollars, the soprano, six are twelve bass, four are sixteen, the contralto, three are nineteen, the baritone, four ... - Baritone, five - said Peña. - Baritone, four - insisted furious Maza. - I know that there are five. - Baritone, four - roared back Maza.
Alvaro Peña stands exalted in turn, burning with noble desire to bring the conviction his opponent, and begins a furious race, huge, lasting about an hour taking part in all or almost all members of that illustrious gathering of notables.
Nothing like the famous brawls that among the Greeks before the walls went Ilion.
The same primitive simplicity in the arguments.
The same naive and barbaric violence in dictation. "There will be more ass man! - Hush, hush, head of cork! - Ox spoke, and said moo! - Te I say you're missing the truth, and if you want clearer, I say you lie .-- Jesus Gans! - Looks you a bad woman. " Were very frequent, almost daily, such altercations in the Club.
Like all those who took part had a direct, wholly original to appreciate the issues, like, if not equal to the heroes of Homer, the argument set to start the dispute, remained unchanged until the end.
Man who had spent an hour repeating incessantly: "There is no right to meddle in anyone's private life!" or, "That will happen in Germany, but as we are in Spain !»...
But what they lost in the arguments ganábanlo range in intensity.
Were increasingly expressed more energy and forceful, and more unrhythmicity voices.
Thus, it was rare day not to come out of there any drone, generally, were Alvaro Peña and Don Feliciano, the weaker larynx, not the most hawkers.
That the City had sent prune Watering trees walk: dispute at the Club.
The clerk of the house González Children had escaped with fourteen thousand reais: dispute.
The parish priest refused to give a certificate of good conduct the pilot Velasco Alvaro Pena had vomited blood a result of this dispute.
The local character issues, it was perfect.
The policy had very few growers Sarrio.
Only when newspapers much any news event package, it momentarily worried its inhabitants.
It was nearly twenty years that the district representation in Congress was entrusted to the wealthy banker Rojas Salcedo, who only once in his life Sarrió been taking donkey milk.
Generally was made to meet the presidents and secretaries of the schools, and pointing in the minutes the number of votes they wanted.
The reason for this was that it had always been Sarrió a market town where everyone could make a living without recourse to employment State.
Most young people, after, after two or three years in a college England and Belgium, were used on the desktops of their parents and their successors were in them.
Others, less still any military or civilian career of fixed salary, and only came from time to time to spend some time with his family.
Sarrió, it must be confessed at once, was a sleeping population for all major events of spirit to regenerate all the struggles of contemporary society.
In a word, in Sarrió the year of grace 1860 there was public life.
It ate, slept, worked, danced, they played, the contribution was paid, but all in a absolutely private.
When they tired to contest the of the Club and had to overcome the digestion, Don Mateo I said, licking his taste, he did not care about the progress of the company.
Within a few days preparing a surprise to Sarrio.
After much work was achieved to disgorge.
Was in talks with the famous Marabini, phrenologist, magician.
yes, on Tuesday or Wednesday might admire their skills in the theater.
Gonzalo had gone to the pool room and play the plated saw half a dozen Indians, which to give Tacaza, sounded like a peal of bells all gold charms hanging from his huge watch-chains.
These chains and these pendants were the attraction more powerful, the supreme temptation presenting their children for artisans Sarrió deciding to go to Cuba .--«¡ Fool, who you see coming in a few years with cloth coat Fine, great blouse ironed and lots of patent leather boot chain Morelos, like Don Pancho! "A stake latter resisted almost any boy .--«¿ That gives me seven times around the neck, father? - Yes, man, yes, and a portion of gold pens and lockets hanging. "And off he went from poor guys head in the Bella-Paula, the Carmen, in the town of Sarrió or other barcucho Sailing anyone to perish of hunger or black vomit, blacker still fascinated by the brightness of those kitschy jewelry representing the eyes of the terrible Loreley.
The attitude of some Indians playing as people who are not seasoned to repress their gestures and composing them, were strange and funny, served with joy to the young men whose antipathy to the Americans always expressed by mockery.
Who, like Don Benito, was high heels on the ground as the ball ran, who, like Don Lorenzo, bent to one side or the other, twisting and writhing as if their movements depended on the ball be inclined to one place or another, who, at last, as Don Pancho, who was small and fat, almost square, jumped up from the couch after having pushed the ball, the better to see the damage had been done in the sticks.
Occasionally you could hear the cry of impatience one of them addressing the boy :--«¡ Point, boy, do not be distracted! " Next came and sat Gonzalo Feliciano Gomez, who started him dizzy with his talk kind and insubstantial, giving each moment loving pat on the thigh as he custom. - When is the big day, Gonzalín?
do not hesitate to ask. "As you have seen the birth of the poor! ...
No nothing like the marriage to live happy and peaceful.
You tell me: and if so, why not married, Don Feliciano?
God never fails, eh, my boy? ...
Also, while you're young you suffer much.
Everything becomes desire, and rage ...
A fire in here that leaves you calm ...
But when the years come and stops the heat lover and is a cool as a cucumber, then, big, my boy! ...
The great age of man, fifty years.
Do not hesitate, Gonzalín.
You now get married and kisses and "my life" for here "my soul" over there, right? ...
This is good, but this is better ...
The girl is from a good family ...
Don Rosendo is rich ...
But hey, why do not you marry with small, Venturita, which is prettier?
These words made a strange impression on Gonzalo.
The thought thus expressed was formula brutal, but accurate and precise in its vague guess, a certain uneasiness that had been the night before.
He was a child, did not talk to ladies.
The kindness of the former was impressed ...
After a certain vanity of having a girlfriend ...
Contrary to his custom, he remained a good fifteen minutes looking pensive ivory balls rolling without seeing them.
Don Feliciano was gone.
Traits its appearance, made temporarily widened and spread, for her smile calm that characterized.
At the same time shrugged with supreme disdain.
With gesture seemed to say: - "I marry the ugliest of girls Belinchón ...
Anyway, whether with one or the other, but not marry me no!
I do not need that happiness comes from outside me.
I carry within me, in this mood of an angel God gave me, money that my parents left me in this health inconceivable, in this bull's strength ... " When he came back into the Saloncillo, greatly disturbed their daily gatherings found with the news that Severino had just brought the hardware store you do not know :--«¿ what's up, gentlemen? "- Everyone gets up and surround him.
The dealer speaks visibly moved .-- This night they robbed and killed Don Laureano .-- What don Laureano, the fifth? - Yes, the the Watermill ...
They say the two and a half, more or less, nine masked men entered at home, the servant ground with sticks, tied to the lady and the maid and Don Laureano cut his throat ...
Before you think he did suffer a lot to force him to drop the money ...
The good man had no more than twelve thousand pieces, and they determined he had hidden cat ...
They tied around here, save is the part, and strip strip to make it sing ...
A shiver of horror shook the Sarrió remarkable.
Pale as if they stayed they had been rigged and all that appalling torment.
The fifth of the Watermill was a league of the town, in the solitude of a pine forest, but nobody took that into account.
After the first moments of surprise, the comments began quietly.
Thieves would not be very far away.
However, remember that not Sarrió or around there such a thing ever happened.
Marin said he did day and saw some suspicious men night.
This news came in a healthy surrounding terror which was not revealed.
All proposed not to leave home at night, without communicating, however, so successful resolution.
The mayor said that in his opinion, the thieves must have come from Castilla Castilla .-- What? - Yes, sir, Castilla ...
Have heard my father (God rest his soul) that occurred five years seventeen men on horseback armed Sariego, surrounded the people and robbed Jose Maria Herrero sixty thousand hard he had hidden under one of the brick home.
At any other time, the circles have noted that this would have happened Sariego event in year five, did not necessarily mean the same thing happen in Windmills year sixty.
But now no one dared to contradict the risky proposition.
And they went quietly cementing the event, and seemed all agree on the views most extravagant and contradictory.
The voices were heard throughout the square well the Navy, but passers were used, and not stopped to listen.
And since then Sarrió notable not set foot on the street at night, as discreetly it had proposed.
The gathering of the Club last minute, the store Graells, Morana of the same, were abandoned.
The four or six blacksmiths set in the villa could not give or comply with the numerous requests for locks, bars of iron and master keys that made them all homes.
The thieves Windmills were not incurred.
All predicted, more or less foundation, who were prowling population to fall on her to sack a deadline.
However, as the man gets used to everything, even to the disease by up to conferences Ateneo, Sarrió neighbors, after a few days became accustomed to danger.
Began to leave their homes, it was quite dark, but with proper precautions.
Being frustrated all the efforts made to Dona Brigida an hour is sound asleep, threw home without pity
