Magnificent words thanked the ease with which the whole nation offered serve, and the same are received.
Greeks said that all suspects and we were enemies, and thus continuously sought ties with friends and strangers, that I hope never to do it.
Also received his army Turcopoles many companies that left Azan Sultan, and were baptized.
All Andronico wanted them aid, and estimated as large, and thus that our offered him words can not be more expensive than the estimate made it, being of people as advantageous to the others that served him, and feared at the time.
Andronico said the pay according to the difference of the arms and occupation, four ounces of silver each month to the men at arms, their horses Thin two, and so the pilots and people of mandoneros an ounce, and provided that they reach the coast of a province of the Empire they were given four pay, and when they wanted to return to their homes together, or split, you fought two for the trip.
Author George Pachymeres Greek, fragments illustrate much this relationship, although big enemy of the Catalans, says that the Catalans' pay bending were higher than those of the Turkish Greeks and Massagetas: that clearly shows The estimate was made of the Catalan and Aragonese militia, as with so excessive differential the advantage over all who served in the Empire.
Of pay, entertainment and benefits offered to the nobility and captains do not indicate the Historians thing with particularity, only the office and dignity of Grand Duke Roger, and the Steward in Corbera de Alet.
Where I suspect that his taste was limiting their pay and salary, because seconds later we shall see, Generals will ask his money, just pointing out the amount, but for this had to account to the accountants and finance ministers of Andronico.
The ambassadors returned to Sicily, and found Roger in Licata where he awaited his return, and know the proper office that wore then went to see the King, to give reason of the honorable Andronico hospitality that made its embassies and how long walked to offer grants.
Publicóse the day, and the captains gathered his people at Messina, where the army was ready, that in a few days was in order to sail.
It was the army of thirty-six candles, and between they had eighteen galleys, four heavy ships, most armed with money King, and Roger, for the execution of the day spent the ranch he bought in past wars, and took twenty thousand ducats of the Genoese in the name of the Emperor Andronicus.
It was much less the number of people in what is believed, for the two Berengueres of Entenza, Rocafort and Roger could not join, or follow him, because his departure differed for next year.
Berenguer de Entenza expect new companies to enhance people of Catalonia forces, and spend more reputation.
Berenguer de Rocafort stopped at a Castle Calabria, deliver and reuse the King Charles of Naples, to be entirely satisfied of what is owed him by reason of his salary.
Roger, though it lacks these two captains could you stop with just cause, being one of the most key parts of his army, determined splitting, and embarked his men had postponed the day.
King, over ships and galleys that gave them for their journey, they control supply of provisions and supplies, and money he could, a Prince that the rule only experienced the hardships and dangers.
This was the prize that was given to the most invincible and victorious militia of that age, and served for long twenty years to the Three Kings, Peter, James and Frederic, reaching its enemies five naval victories, three on the ground, without other significant events, and without the contestability heavy and large towns, and other defendants with commendable pertinacity and incredible value.
Such was the moderation of those times, very different from what we have today, because we see soldiers who have just seen the enemy, when judged by the largest short mercedes.
Part of Sicily navy, and militia was the people and the Almugavares.
All people embarked in the port of Mecina, and before leaving the lighthouse, it was shown general, and were found by Montaner, 1500 effective men out for the service navy, without officers, and four thousand foot Almugavares.
Nicephorus Gregoras, shortly Author true in some of these events, says that Roger went to Greece one thousand men, but George Pachymeres matches and Montaner, and claims that were eight thousand who have passed away.
This, to I believe, is the true number, for six thousand five hundred paid soldiers, it is true that reached the number of eight thousand with the family servants and captains, and Rich men.
And although these two authors do not agree, the faith of Nicephorus was always doubtful; Roger because he alone being captain of a thousand men, I can not persuade him that Andronico Grand Duke did, and he married his granddaughter, without preceding services.
Not seem Ageno the attempt, because all of our infantry was Almugavares say something of its origin.
The old mother of oblivion, and who have died and memories made clear distinguished between others that left us confused, has been the source of the Almugavares, but as I have could determine, was of those barbarous nations who destroyed the empire and name the Romans in Spain, and founded his own, which long kept in splendor and glory of great majesty, until Saracens in less than two years he was oppressed, and forced to the relics of this universal fire, which among the most rugged of the mountains, seek defense, where the beasts killed by his hand were given food and clothing.
But then his old value and effort, which treats gift and had buried with work and fatigue was restored, and made them leave the jungles and forests, and turn their weapons against Moors occupied earlier in killing beasts.
With the long custom to go wandering, never built houses or possessions founded campaign, and on the borders of enemies had their room and the livelihoods of their people and families: spoils of the Saracens, in which sacrificed the lives perpetually damage without other art or craft paid more to serve in war, and when their Kings were missing they made, with heads and private leaders ran the borders, where they came to call the former going to the incursions, go almugaveria.
Children and women brought with them, witnesses of his glory, or shame, as the Germans in all ages have used it, fur clothing of beasts, sandals, and Antipas of the same.
The network of iron weapons in the head in helmet, sword, pike and a little less than what is used today in companies of musketeers, but most had three or four Throwing darts.
Such was the haste and violence with that flashed in his hands, crossed armed men and horses, something apparently Montaner Desclot doubtful if not reported, serious authors of our stories, where its length is made, which can match concluded with the very Romans and Greeks.
Charles King of Naples, as some prisoners before him Almugavares, admiring the evils of the costume, and weapons, apparently useless against the bodies of men and armored horses, said with some contempt, that if they were those soldiers with the King de Aragon think warfare.
Then said one of them off whenever the mood to defend its reputation, Lord, you seem not so vile, and estimates in as little our power, choose a gentleman of the most mentioned in your army with offensive weapons and defensive desires, I would offer you with only my sword and dart to fight in the field with him.
With Charles desire to punish the insolence of Almugavar postponed the challenge, and wanted to attend and see battle.
He left his horse a Frenchman armed with all parts, spear, sword and dart.
Just entered in the lurch when he killed the horse, and willing to do the same owner, King's voice stopped him and gave him the victor and free.
Another Almugavar in this same war, to the tongue of water rushed twenty men of arms, killed five before losing his life.
Many other facts could refer, if not alien of our history, to try another length.
The question offered only the name, if it was the nation, or of militia in its principles.
I have for a certain thing that was the nation, and for sure more on this opinion, I have to Pachymeres George Greek author whose fragments give much light to this whole story, which he calls the descendants of the Avars Almugavares, companions of Huns, and Goths, and although no author find that counter to the contrary, many laws of the items are clearly inferred that the name was name Almugavar militia, and does not contradict this be true first, because between the two may have been.
At its beginning, as Pachymeres says, was to nation, but then do not exercise as Almugavares other art or craft, they came to give names to all those who served in that militia as well as many arts and sciences took the name of its inventors.
But I doubt he would have added to the Almugavares, militia so painful and dangerous, without being of his nation, because their natural inclination to follow the profession of the parents; and no man can continue to choose military, from the earliest age that deals with much risk of life, descomodidad, and ongoing work.
Nicephore Gregoras says that Almugavar is name given to all his infantry Latinos, so the Greeks call to all nations to you west, but there is no reason to contradict with such manifest falsehood, and more from an author so little noticed in our affairs as Nicephore.
Navy came Mecina, and prosperous voyage arrived at port Malvacias Morea, where were well received and helped with some soda on the orders of the Emperor.
Before leaving arrived in his letters he sent to Roger to hasten the voyage.
Gladly left people with drink and in a few days the army arrived in Constantinople, for the month of January indicion second, according Pachymeres with universal joy of the city seeing the weapons I had to protect, and defend.
Andronico, and Miguel emperors, and all the Greek nobility, with great love and great appreciation samples were received and honored.
He then ordered Andronico land any people, and to stay within the City in the neighborhood called for Blanquerna and the next day they handed out four as he had arranged to pay.
Roger was home.
Fight Catalans and Genoese in Constantinople.
It seemed to the Emperor Andronicus was proper to their safety and credit, implying that the offers made to our men had to meet a very timely manner, and then show that this deed, given first by what seemed more difficult, Roger was the wedding of his niece Mary, with which everyone was satisfied, judging for certain other grants such as lower and easier to enforce.
Made themselves weddings with the solemnity of real people, because the value of Roger could match the nobility of women.
Azan was Mary daughter of Prince of the Bulgarians, and Andronico's sister Trene of fifteen years of age, extremely beautiful and understood.
Among the greatest pleasure and taste for wedding, there was an uproar and quarrel between Catalans and Genoese fought battle that almost was bloody, born as often happens in a small case, and although Pachymeres says, collection was about twenty thousand ducats paid to Roger in Sicily, and that doze Emperor offered to pay them, but the more one occasion of the quarrel was, a Almugavar flowing through the city gave rise to two Genoese, seeing him alone, much laughter mocks his suit, and figure, but the military morale suffered badly Almugavar witticisms and nicknames in court, more daring language of hands, I rushed to the sword and Trav's independence.
Came from both sides supporters and friends, with courage and prevented or altered as suspects, and that forces from both nations found to their utter ruin and perdition.
The Genoese took their flag or script, and rushed the barracks of the Almugavares distributed in the neighborhood of Blanquerna.
Our cavalry recognizing the danger of their Almugavares, divided into troops, closed with people Genovesa mismanaged.
With this led to the Almugavares depart from their seats, and together to make satisfaction of those who so unjustly mistreated.
Peleose of both furthermore, with obstinacy, until the Genoese captain lost his Final Rose is receded with considerable loss and damage.
Andronico the windows of his palace to watch and looked like the fray when the Genoese were slightly mistreated, and some dead, and words showed his affection bad mood against them, but when he saw that with his customary rigor Almugavares were slaying As they were put forward, afraid that all the Genoese in Constantinople that would not die day; dangerous thing for conservation, because they depended on the prosperity of his empire.
Tiénese Andronico would certainly throw off the yoke of the Genoese if I could safely but it was hard to have to split them so that they could press at once, and if the consent of Constantinople perished, was irritate the other forces remained whole, and with prayers and promises and asked the captains who collected and removed theirs, and George Pachymeres concerned, he sent to Stephen Marzal Andronico great Drungario and Admiral, who was a quiet turmoil, and to pacify the parties, and who was killed and dismembered.
Finally, the presence and authority of Roger, and the other captains could therefore they obeyed all, and with much danger they withdrew, because they had brought their flags with the intention of undertaking pear, and loot, along with his revenge greed.
Call our Captains and briefly explained the shaft would have to see their weapons in Asia, protecting their miserable and Christian peoples, oppressed by the Turks, and removed the opportunity of new independence and disorders
