The end of splendid view was that the king told Mordechai's good that the two things I wanted, wealth and wife could not give more than one; to opt between the jewels of great value to front watched, and which would enjoy a fortune greater than that of all the sovereigns of the land, and a good woman, beautiful and industrious, certainly as rare gem that could not be found but stirring all the earth.
And now I think, ladies, you, trading, they should be this book.
With these bad impressions Benina up the ladder, as rested as bleak, with the steps in rumen, the peeling walls, without missing the signs of carbon or pencil scrawled with paneled doors, through which loomed the lower hinge piece of mat, and dirty street lamps seemed like urns day Saints.
In the first floor, coming down from heaven, with neighborhood cats and a magnificent view of the shingles and dormers, Miss Obdulia lived, his house, by the width of dilapidated rooms and cold would like convent, but for the low elevation of the roofs, which almost caught hand.
Mats and carpets were so unknown there, as in the Congo and the Levites top hats; only in what they called the Cabinet had felt a bit frayed, blue-flowered and red, about two yards square.
The flea market furniture with sheets declared broken disabled legs, limping their positions, the disaster in its infinite wanderings in moving cars.
However, such clothing got along poorly with poverty Luquitas's wife. "Did not come last night your husband? - Benina said, breathless from the painful ascent. - No, daughter, needless to me.
Let him in your coffee, and at their homes in ruin, with the members that have sucked the brains. - Do not you have brought nothing home for your in-laws? - Now do not touch.
You know that left him in a day every other.
There has been more than Juana Rosa a comb, and she was my Andrea.
They will eat together at home with his aunt. - So you're like chameleons.
Do not worry, that God squeezes but does not drown, and here I'm not fast for more than note that heaven or what you have already won ...
With the nice things that has amused me, and I hardly there is no agreement on home more than two ounces of chocolate, half a dozen dates, and some crusts of bread ...
If you bring me something, be the first for these poor cats bored that since the dawn will not let me live.
Looks like I speak, and say, "But what is our Good girl, that does not come with our cordillita?. " - Then bring to remediaros all - said the old woman -.
But I want to greet that gentleman stale, which is so fine and friendly with the ladies. " He entered the cabinet called, and M.
de Ponte and Delgado broke up with her loving compliments of the good society. "Whenever you throwing it less, Benina ...
O do not understand is that we women of a village, such terms as Fisnar ...
I'll be back soon, I have to give lunch to the girl and Mr cats.
And although Mr.
Frasquito forbid, has to do penance here.
I invited him ...
no, you Miss invites. - Oh, how much honor! ...
I thought I retire. - Yes, we know that you are always invited houses of greatness.
But as is so well, you dizna sit at the table of the poor. - Taking into account that both thank you - said Obdulia -.
de Ponte is a sacrifice to accept these poverty ... - By God, Obdulia! ... - But his great kindness inspires these and other great sacrifices.
During the prosaic operation, talked with chips and coals, and using the bellows as a conduit phonetic he said: "I'm having again like to feed the hungry poor, who confesses his hunger for shame that gives ...
How much misery in this world, Lord!
If I have money left after giving him lunch, I see how I compose to take the penny you need to pay cot tonight.
Heart tells me that last night did not pay ...
No, but I had the money, I would not give it, and although it offered, first slept in the open to catch it these poor hands ...
Two assumptions stood out among many that were the pride of Ponte Delgado, namely the hair and small feet
