Acúsasele therefore of lack of open-mindedness, lack of understanding.
Reply to this delicious lines of Don Miguel de Unamuno "And I will die repeating that the lack of austerity is not lack of intelligence but not is just nonsense, pure nonsense, nonsense auction that attracts the scum of good tone the centers of luxury and vice.
Not being the vice of thinking all the other spring from impairments.
Service call to the emptiness of the spirits are refined [7]. * * * Alvarez was first and above all self-taught.
As was his custom every student - says one of his biographers - to make marginal annotations to the works read, underlining paragraphs that interested him and scoring in the first pages of the book read the number that will to further consultation.
Also, worth of notebooks that had extracts, notes, grouped observations, ready to be used in his writings.
There are still many without having fulfilled its purpose - as a confession of that noble strain stem tutor - a cause of premature death.
Its work is recent method.
The bustle of the daily struggle prevented him rest and serenity so necessary to the speculations of spirit.
His tenure in the military, for journalism, for the courts, and as a lawyer or judge, its incursion into the political arena, his dedication to educational work as a teacher of military education, secondary and university acting as a member of numerous scientific or cultural institutions, or as in many diverse scientific conferences opinion, national or international, and their performance of official nation or province; all that prevented him from doing his work methodically and quietly, in specialization.
The need to bring the role and brings the official procedure.
Well, according to known psychophysiological laws, exercising the body develops, and some part of this or the ability to reproduce, spread, also roughly the offspring by so that, once lifted up by men and upper and middle of an era moral or intellectual level of the subsequent reporting enterprise, emerging for their respective race from a base platform or higher, go further with the same flow or momentum, that is what explains the notorious fact that men and upper middle France For example, when taken together, are worth many times more than Spain, in the same alleged Latin race, or those of Argentina - who had a Rivadavia, a Mitre and Sarmiento, - much more than those of Bolivia, which has had many bishops and any educator in America itself the South and the Pope, which explains that a Voltaire, a Michelet, a Renan, a Taine, a France, being a natural in France, would be an amazing event in Spain, absolutely impossible in Morocco
