I prefer that they had these wooden balconies, prefer that the pedestrians did not have continuous temptation to see two balconies at his disposal, two balconies that can be played hand, but saw that this is a normal occurrence here, I seem so outlandish and so ridiculous to want something else, as it would be in Constantinople to pretend that every house was not an enchanted palace.
Anyway, my wife went to bed, obedience, and not close her eyes until it was observed late in the day.
But after we get used to the new life, so much the money as watches were on the table or on the cabinet, almost in sight of what will happen down the street.
Needless to say that nobody came out to dispossess or to kill us.
We have crossed several times throughout Paris, never to have had news of an armed robbery, a murder, a mob of any kind.
We have only witnessed a fight between two men in the street of Buenavista (Beauregard), riot that lasted a moment and had no unpleasant consequences.
Other trends studied in Paris, just conceived, or conceived is conceived as a prodigy, the existence of such scrupulous level between social behavior is due, and will of charge.
This level is evident, and only ignorance, the prejudice or hatred can not know.
We have studied with great care the face of the Parisian civilization, and we must say very rarely seen a public demonstration of the individual, is in disagreement with the rule of society, ie, written laws.
There are those who have attributed this result to the vigilance of the police, but this way judge is not the most seasoned reveals knowledge of things.
The police, like any act of repression, can avoid special cases, local accidents and time, not produce a general case, unanimously, with rare exceptions.
This is a provision general mood and manners not to hurt the property, as this property is guaranteed by a formal proclamation of the law.
For this arrangement of the minds and morals was a result of monitoring police, was that each individual must have a spotter so attached to him as walking to their mark, which would lead us to suppose the existence of so many spies as citizens.
When a people is so immoral that each of your children need not be a spy for murderer or thief, no human forces that prevent the individual from that company is a thief or murderer.
The spy can not do anything but add to the sum a new numeral.
The citizen criminal would need an accomplice, the accomplice would be his own guardian, the police, espionage.
The intelligence, then, would serve only to give authority to the crimes, or to succumb in the struggle.
Yes, the police would have to be an accomplice, or robbed and murdered by the thief and by the murderer.
This can not be and may not be in any country in the world, there is no reason to be in Paris.
No, not the police.
Police are in Austria, and crime is incomparably higher.
England holds the police today less the French Empire, and England is moderated a country more than France.
Belgian police have less, much less, and customs of that country are far better than the people who examine.
Sardinia is under police Naples, Naples is more criminal than in a proportion Sardinia fabulous
