He continues and ends at the end, wishing, as eloquently assistant marina, which Sarrio awaken to the life of progress, which comes out of the lethargy in which it lies, and that somehow manifested in its enclosure the struggle of ideas always fertile, and look at its horizon bright sun of civilization. "...
If true, as I have understood that through the initiative and generous patriotic a respectable character of this town, is preparing it the advent of the fourth of modern states.
If it is true that soon will be equipped Sarrió a newspaper reflect their legitimate aspirations, that is the arena where they exercise their minds, the protection of their dearest interests, the advanced guard of peace and rest, the organ, in order, where to contact the spirit world, congratulate ourselves, gentlemen, Heartily congratulate ourselves!
and also congratulate the distinguished patrician by whose efforts will reach us a ray of that shining star of the nineteenth century called the press. " (Bravo, bravo!
The face of Don Rosendo shine full of majesty and sweetness.) After Perinolo son, sought and obtained the word Don Jeronimo de la Fuente.
The illustrated Professor of first letters, ardently desired up to the public eye after the fall of Pandects.
Then he began saying that was full of worthy ideas He (note that said not eloquent or illustrated, but worthy, worth nothing more) that had preceded the use of the word he intended by his profession to light the torch of science in children's minds, could not be decided in favor modern developments, especially the press.
In corroboration of these words, believes in the case say that, as soon as the creation of a newspaper was Sarrió a fact, would have the pleasure of exposing their neighbors to solve a problem which today had believed insoluble, that of 'trisection of angle ", which was dedicated many efforts and vigils, and other crowned a fortunately for the best success.
Spoke then great opportunity for some areas, physical geography and astronomy, explaining some problems of celestial mechanics, in particular the law of universal attraction, discovered Newton, through which the planets orbit the sun in elliptical orbits.
Finally, speaking of our satellite the moon, noted that the time of its revolution around the earth was significantly decreased, indicating that its orbit is narrowed.
This, according to the speaker, would result in later or earlier than the moon fall on earth and both would shatter.
Don Jerome sat down, leaving the audience very agitated, under the weight of this terrifying prophecy.
A few words explicitly stated that, in his opinion, thought is not just a physiological function of the brain and the soul an attribute of matter.
But, what part of the brain lies the focus of intellectual activity? - Wonders he .-- In his view, this activity is centered in the "gray, brown or yellow" and certainly not in the "white matter" which is nothing more than the driver of such activity.
He spoke after the dura mater, the hemispheres of the frontal, parietal and occipital of falx and tentorium.
At this point he had a happy occurrence, beautifully comparing the convolutions of gray matter to a lot of guts thrown at random.
All the powers which we call the soul, are only functions of this substance gray, this pile of intestines.
The brain secretes thought as the liver secretes urine, bile and kidneys.
He concludes that, as humanity does not penetrate of these truths, you can not leave the state of barbarism in which it lies.
As never wanted to be less than the doctor, asked to speak veterinary professor Navarro.
After spending a few words to welcome the holding of that meeting (none of the speakers failed to mention the buzzword) presented some very reasonable ideas about the pig gangrenous angina and prophylaxis.
He stumbled, mumbled, sweating to cast their thinking.
But the deficiency of expression, dutifully made up for novelty and interest that the subject offered.
At the time of angina were dying in Sarrió, enough of those cute animals.
The public, though he listened with respect and affection this news about the disease who complained at the time the swine, and was eager to hear statements the president.
After the mention of the son of Perinolo the issue of the paper, all eager to know what was true.
While lecturing Navarro, came a voice from the pot crying - To speak Don Rosendo.
Such was the eagerness to hear the word president.
Like all really high-spirited men and biting wit, wrote Don Rosendo better than talking.
However, his word was a hallmark of relaxed grandeur in vain would look at the speakers who preceded him. - Gentlemen (pause) I thank all people (pause) who have come this afternoon (Pause) to the meeting which I had the honor of calling (pause much longer during which sounds are noisy).
I have a real appreciation (pause) to see collected on this site most enlightened people of the village (pause) and all those who for one or another concept worth and mean something. (Bravo, very good, very good.) After this exordium as flattering welcome, said that what he urged in the time was "raising the intellectual level of Sarrió." Then he added that his purpose convening this meeting was not one to raise this level. (Prolonged applause.) To carry out such an enterprise had no strength and sufficient merit. (Yeah, yeah.
Navarro throws his top hat to the scene.
Alvaro Peña and Don Feliciano Gomez, picking up and return them to their owners.
The appearance of Don Rosendo shines with majestic expression, his lips, to contract with a happy smile, let see the two symmetrical rows of teeth, eloquent testimony to the progress odontálgicos.) - Despite these demonstrations of affection that I thank to the bottom of the soul (pause) the pride does not blind me.
The scarcity of my strength (No, no), my lack of enlightenment (No, no applause) will cause the body blows certainly does not correspond to the expectations of the public. (Voices from various sites: If you shall!
Applause.) But if you (pause) lack of intelligence may be supplemented by faith and enthusiasm, will certainly now.
My humble pen and my little fortune belongs to people of Sarrió. (Samples vehement approval.) The new paper, as he had "a great mission to accomplish." This mission was to raise the reforms, the progress that the town claimed.
The road to Rodillero was the constant desire of both peoples.
Stirring as if the seat had spikes.
He came forward appalling yell at the speakers: "Donkeys, donkeys!" as he used to do in the Saloncillo, fulminate against them or one of those ferocious sarcasm raised rash. "Those antics" had stirred the bile.
We know the great virtue of segregation the liver of the former Marine had.
Breathing hard, smiling sarcastically, gritting spitting teeth and often, thus showing their disapproval of what had been said, what was being said and what was said.
From time to time, let out a bah!
and other particles no less significant.
Finally, in the middle of the speech of Don Rosendo, or because nothing could oppose his grave eloquence, or because the noise of the applause will be exacerbated so irresistible, it is certain that out of the room, and began to walk through the front door of the theater in a state of agitation regrettable.
A few times, went back inside and went to the pan.
There, listening to Don Rosendo touch the point of slaughter, sought to please the populace to let him pass.
We do not know what it is, but it is certain that whenever a meeting is suggested by the idea any more or less free play there is no clean wheat, this statement produces disastrous effects.
This is even more remarkable, since generally in assemblies has no wheat in their pockets, neither clean nor dirty.
And if by chance any take him, it is certain that not even the thought would play with him.
Don Rosendo, on hearing the sentence, was suddenly silent and pale.
A loud murmur of surprise ran across the field of theater.
Some shouted: - Out! - Others said: - Chis, hush! - The eyes of all, after scrutinizing the heights of the pan, they turned to the presidency.
Having grumbled one that the switch was de Nieva, was assembled in the theater terrible confusion and noise.
Finally appeased the spirits, Rosendo and gives thanks to public bodies. - Prior to taking over this seat of honor (the president had retreated to the back of the stage) I have to say that if the parrot ...
or Mazar (laughs) aims to snatch a statement about the problem of public Macelo, I have no objection to it, because I do not clothes hurt. (Viva, curiosity.
You do not hear a fly fly.) I solemnly declare, gentlemen, the new Macel, in my opinion, it must be placed elsewhere in the dump. (Immense sensation.) He ends with a few words his great speech, and adjourned.
Viewers leave the theater half asphyxiated, both for the many emotions that were soon experienced, for the thirty-eight degrees Celsius was in the room.
IX A TALE OF TEARS This happened at the top.
In the dark domain of privacy occurred at the same time, some events, although not as memorable, were not without importance for people involved in them.
The day after the interview and Gonzalo Venturita, we have described, he did not visit the house of his fiancee.
He remained in his, pretending to be afflicted by a severe sore molars.
Such was at least the news that reached Cecilia Elvira through the Maiden he saw the servant of Don Melchor in the square.
No doubt more than Venturita and Valentina.
The embroidery fled to stumble upon the look of the girl.
Maybe I would fear embarrassing, perhaps she herself felt embarrassed without knowing why.
Venturita was as cheerful as ever.
Cecilia who only knew him a bad mood when he spoke less, out of his comfortable toothpaste elixir, copied a prayer to Santa Poland had given him, and calling with Elvira mystery to him said all flushed: - Elvira, will you oblige me to take this bottle and this form to Miss Gonzales? - Right now? - When you can ...
I would not be whole ... - Rest assured you, Miss - pale brunette said, smiling gently, - nobody will know a word.
Her mom is sending me for starch, and back, wham!
Gonzalo Upon receiving the message, he felt sharp seized with remorse.
Three or four times he was about to take his hat and stand Belinchón home, and let things continue as they had begun.
Feelings honest, kind and compassionate in his heart there, the voice of reason advocated in defense of Cecilia, the angel, in short, that every man carries within himself, he encouraged so I did.
The gentle and graceful image Venturita present to remember: the fire his eyes still flashed him the soul, the sweet touch of her hair voluptuous gold, the devil, in order, held him back.
Gonzalo was a healthy man in body, powerful muscles, blood rich but very poor control.
The more scared the hell exhausted temperaments than to the wealthy as yours.
The battle between the devil and angel fought, did not last long time.
He came to decide in favor of the former Ventura a little note that gender, the other maid of the house, brought him.
The look of the girl to give it, where thought he noticed the smile despite a tacit censorship disturbed him a little.
When you open later with a trembling hand The letter caught the scent of sandalwood that Venturita used.
Ofrecióse sudden your imagination provocative beautiful image of the girl, and removed every fiber in his being not yet had vibrated.
Acercóla to his lips, and drunk and throbbing with desire, he kissed frantically repeatedly.
