If there were more than this, where she would equal, would have the same effect: experience shows otherwise.
In addition, we conceive extension in pure space, and yet we do not see the body.
This when there is no mobility, and space is stationary.
Does not exist when there is no capacity to produce prints, and the mere extension of space does not have this capability.
Then the simple idea of ??the extension does not contain, even in the state of our knowledge, the whole idea of ??the body.
Ignore what the essence of this: but we know who enters on the idea that it have, something more than extension. [39.] When it is said that the body is inconceivable without extension, not to say that the extension is the concept that constitutes the essence of the body.
This essence is unknown to us, and therefore we can not know what goes on it or not.
Behold this fair sense inseparability of the two ideas, extension and body.
As we have no knowledge à priori bodies, and how much they know, even their existence, received from sense, everything we think or imagine about the bodies, must involve the serving as the basis of our feelings.
This basis as we have seen above, is the extension: no she does not feel, and without therefore, the body ceases to exist for us, or reduced to a being that does not stand out from others.
Will clarify these ideas.
If stripping the bodies of the extension, and leave you only the nature of a being, because of the impressions I get, then this is no different for me a spirit that I produjese the same effects.
I see the paper, and gives me the impression a white surface.
No doubt God could produce in my mind the same sensation, without there being any body.
So assuming that I knew to my feeling not carries a large foreign object, and that alone is caused by something that works on me it is clear that in my mind would be two things: 1. ª The phenomenon of sensation, which in every case would be the same. 2. ª The idea of ??being that occurs to me, and this idea would have more than a being different from me, that works on me: it would have in relation to external two ideas, distinction and causality.
Same as above. 1. º A internal phenomenon witnessed by my conscience. 2. º The idea of ??a cause of this phenomenon.
I do not know if this is still a body, but I know that the idea of ??the body such as I am, I get something else: I know this for me, no different from other beings, and that if his innermost nature is something that distinguishes them, this something is unknown to me (V.
cap. 1). [40.] Here as in what direction I say the idea is for us inseparable extension of the body.
But this does not follow that these things are identified, and to deepen matter, may be found to exist away from this identity, and body extension are two entirely different things.
We have seen that this was true by referring to the idea, which is an indication that the same happens in reality. [41.] Few have more clear ideas of extension geometrically considered, all attempt to explain it is useless simply by intuition we know better than I could tell us volumes.
This idea itself is so bright that it is based on a body science, the most extensive and obvious that humanity has: geometry.
Then there are reasons to believe we know the true essence of extension, considered in itself, because we know its necessary properties, and provided evidence that it lies our more scientific edifice.
And yet this idea is not found, or impenetrability, nor any of the properties of the body on the contrary, we see an indifferent capacity for all of them.
Conceive so easily penetrable and impenetrable extension; empty as full, white and green with properties to be in relationship with our bodies as without them.
Extension conceive a disposition to affect body to another, as in the pure space: in the sun that illuminates and warms the world, as in the vague dimensions of an entirely empty vastness.
SPACE-NOTHING. [42.] As explained in previous chapters may have noticed, that's ideas always mixed extension of space, and when you want to set the real nature of that, we also offer questions about the nature of this.
It is not possible explain any of those things, if left in the dark some of them, for the same I shall deal at length on issues of space, so under ideal appearance as real, because only this way we can proceed with some clarity in determining the nature of the extension. [43.] Space: This is one of the deepest mysteries in the natural order offered the skinny man's understanding.
The more you delve into it, but it is dark: the spirit is as immersed in that darkness that we figured out there in the vast depths of imaginary spaces.
Know whether what you experience are illusions or realities.
For a moment he seems to have reached the truth, and then discovers that it has narrowed its arms a vain shadow.
Form speeches that other matters would have to inconclusive and that are not in this, because they are in opposition to others who also seem conclusive.
It would seem that it meets the limit to its research, has put the Creator: and that the endeavor to pierce, fades, feels his flagging energy, your life extinguished, like all living on leaving the element of its own.
When some philosophers are going slightly on space issues, and flattering to explain in two words, it can be assured that either have not thought much about the difficulty that they hold, or to meditate, they have not understood.
Not proceed so, Descartes, Malebranche, Newton, and Leibniz.
Deepening the bottomless pit is not wasting time in useless discussion, even if not be reached to find what you are looking for, you get a very good result because touch the limits set to our spirit.
It is appropriate that we know what we can know and what is not, of this knowledge takes the philosophy considered very high and profitable.
Moreover, even with little hope of good result, it is not possible to leave without test an idea it touches so close to the base of all our knowledge concerning corporeal objects: the extension.
If you do not know what is the space, let us at least the sense of the word with this Somehow we will post also in the state of the art.
By space we mean the extension imagine that placed the bodies: the ability to contain, to which we attach no no quality of them, except the extension itself.
Assuming an airtight vessel, whose inside is empty, reduced to nothing As it is contained, and without in any way be introduced nothing new, this cavity that capacity is, and in our understanding, can be filled with body, that is a part of space.
Imagine the world as a huge vessel in which they are contained all the bodies: vaciémosle suddenly behold a cavity with equal space the universe.
Let us imagine that beyond the limits of the world, there is capacity for other bodies behold endless space or imaginary.
Because at any point where a body placed conceive, you can also conceive move, describing all sorts of lines taking variety of directions, and away indefinitely the place where he was.
Next to that ability, to those dimensions, not limit them to imagine whatsoever.
Then the space is presented as indefinite. [45.] Will be no pure space?
Settle some that space, irrespective of any surface of bodies, and considered as a simple interval, is pure nothing, admitting that he alone, can be tested two bodies are really distant, and also add that even if the whole universe reduced to nothing, except a single body, this could vary from place to move.
I think opinion holds that the contradictions that are difficult to reconcile.
As soon as you see that if the space is the same extension of bodies, where there will be no blank body
