It is amazing to imagine what would have taken this up beautifully brain if fortune would have been favorable and could devote himself to study, no material concerns are as for the intellectual shackles!
Its huge readings encyclopedic overturning the will there, along with personal observations of people, events and things the viewer discovers the sole right sight, will the relevant clause of the author or foreign national who sister or matches, accompanied by his remark tasty.
Was ringing with unparalleled persistent about it, urging his fellow citizens to study science, which put face to face with the religious precept.
It was "a liberal San Pablo," said Joaquín V.
It has been alleged and repróchasele as a feature of bad taste this emphasis, but, Alvarez was right.
In our country, religion takes many forms curious, is infiltrated every corner of social life: at school, at home, in government, administration, under the law.
Often argued that the religious question is not present, she has been resolved in our country in the world is no longer questioned.
The religious question is topical in the world today more than ever, and it comes out there mystical or religious revival in humanity ...
In our country the religious problem is topical, Sarmiento to this part, especially practice in his face.
Civil registration with civil marriage, secular law and education, are gains of the secular spirit of religious power.
Seemingly, the struggle - that muffled roars in different social groups - from religious precept and ideals Lay has increasingly emphasized.
Even, therefore, may justly tachársele of inactual Alvarez.
In this connection, is accused of "materialist", had made up its mind on such extreme readings - the "Unique" sources of their culture, says a critic - to approach old, backward, and saw Within this perspective the religious problem.
Engineers believe that this indictment has answered in a definitive manner: "Nothing in Indeed - he says - more false than the alleged identity of superstition with idealism, no There is nothing more awkward than the vulgar to suggest that all secular moralists are "materialists" and lack of ideals "and then adds:" There is nothing morally more materialistic practices outside of all religions known and scrupulous capacity to set their rates to intercede with the deity, nothing more idealist who practice and preach the virtue truth as did most of the philosophers who died at the stake on charges of heresy.
In this sense moral - and there is no one to appreciate an ideal planter - Agustín Alvarez was an idealist all his life, never adhering to the materialism of any known religion "[8].
V. - THE EDUCATOR Alvarez was a teacher in the broadest sense of the word.
His temperament and his teacher vocation for teaching is manifested in many forms.
Taught in the university chair - say their students - with real fervor.
THE EVOLUTION OF THE HUMAN SPIRIT THE MOTHER OF THE LAMB The specific need of understanding is the explanation, as the specific need stomach is food.
Hunger and curiosity, then, are the two primitive factors fundamental human: one to ensure the physical growth, the other to ensure mental growth, also necessary for the preservation of the individual and the species.
No wings, no tail, no horn, no claws, no fangs, no poison, no spikes, no horns, no shell, no agility, just for the intelligence man could overcome the other animal species in the struggle for life, but, instead, the intelligence was in itself a weapon or capable of developing power indefinitely, to rise higher than birds and fall lower than the reptiles.
It is necessary to work to live, and we need to know to act.
Knowing the right or vice versa taste good or taste bad, it makes no difference to determine the action or inaction and conduct in them, and just different to the outcome.
To find your way in the world, beyond the habit inherited instinct, it is necessary to a concept, an idea, an explanation of the world, very rough at first, and more and more elaborated later, because only crude explanations can satisfy the understandings crude and refined explanations can only satisfy the refined spirits.
Thus, for the fundamental gullibility of the child, the savage and ignorant, explanations are all the more credible the more outrageous, more extraordinary, more fantastic, that that is, more attractive, more impressive on the imagination predominant in them.
Systems of explanation of the universe, a priori beliefs about the unknown, were so necessary to man to party and perform in the tangle of goods and evils that life unfolds, as the paths and roads to travel on the ground, and both traffic areas the expansion necessarily had to produce widening of the road.
Discover how and why to be specific to the facts and things was impossible.
Imagine, was easy and inevitable, then surrounded in all directions by the mystery, urged on by the need to know to act and prodded by curious to know, men had to resort to the brooding fatally to decipher the mysteries of the universe and life, to orient ourselves in the world and life, and the mad house had to be responsible for furnish and equip the house.
For early man, the known history of their actions, the reason for their actions was inside that mystery we call the will, and according to this first factor of own facts were explained, of course, the actions of others as effects of other wills in other people, animals and things, like the child who is angry with toys disobedient to their whims and breaks, because the perpetrators believe that is voluntary; as the cowboys of the range they believe that the mountain known to outsiders and triggers then the storm to show their displeasure, as superstitious Neapolitans believe that the proceedings do not like the priests and flushed with rage when one goes from passengers.
Taking the first thing known - the self - as a basis or reference point for explanation of other things, the man was necessarily the epitome of all things real world, of course, and all the imaginary world then pleading directly at the sun beginning to send the light and heat and avoided the clouds and eclipses, and then Horus, Dionysus, to Phoebus Apollo, the Lord, God, San Antonio or San Francisco.
Starting by assuming a willingness on or behind things to explain the particular of things, the man reached by successive refinement, to imagine the unseen powers as producers of incomprehensible facts, embodying them later in the fetish for afraid to pay them, that is, worship.
And once conceived imaginary factors of the facts and things, came the need to influence those to influence them, and the wizard - embryo of the bishop - took his position in the tribe the useful function of scaring away evil spirits to heal patients.
The need to act on the invisible powers brought to the magician and the magician brought magic, witchcraft second grade, and bifurcated into two branches or specialties in Judaism and paganism, a to appease the angry imaginary powers or promote them through sacrifices laudatory and genuflecting, as "the blood and suffering of humans were the nectar of the gods ", the other to forecast or predict its determinations, interpreting, as the method of the prophets, the visions of the imagination exalted by fasting and solitude, in Judaism, or the dreams and omens, according to the method of fortune tellers and soothsayers in paganism.
Meanwhile, next to the old mythologies and liturgies perfected philosophy arise and Greek literature, which, decreasing human gullibility, the prestige first break the diviners of the future, then the actual effectiveness of the current theogonies for to unmet human curiosity widened in the Greco-Roman.
Y man needs, then, on the shores of the Mediterranean, a new explanation of facts and things in the world, and is provided by the Christian supernaturalism, with two testaments as a new theory of the facts and things, and the sacraments - witchcraft third grade - as a new vehicle of communication between human beings suffer accidents of life and events in the universe, and the superhuman beings that occur, discontinue or change at will.
East astrologers were to investigate the future questioning the stars and necromancers to know the hidden things of the occult, in the West exorcists to expel the demons from the body of the possessed, and blessed to induce the dead to produce goods and avoid evils to the living.
Albeit very slowly, because the Church, forbidding the doubt and curiosity to preserve its tenets, has dented the pricks that drive men to seek, investigate and find out to know, the human mind has always been growing in scope and complexity, straight and parallel with reduced fear of witches, goblins, devils and basilisks and the last suit or catechism imaginary terrors and hopes, with the revelations made of the prophets and apostles, comes, too, were too tight.
The exorcism, which had thousands of thousands victims, burning heretics, haunted and possessed, - hysterical, crazy and wise - he could not hold to human intelligence reaching more and dropped the first, definitely, at the dawn of the nineteenth century.
At first, the Church, then all-powerful, fighting disbelief nascent able to maintain the integrity of your explanation, creed, destroying or crushing which, since the Renaissance, began to excel in mental capacity, but they continue to sprout everywhere and in such a progression that war, excommunication, torture and the stake, operating at the maximum, not enough at last to be removed, and in turn, she also begins to retreat, before the rising tide of dissatisfaction with the curious ultimate explanation of nature and the supernatural.
Because alchemy has been opening the way to physics and chemistry, have revived the philosophy, literature and art, and human understanding, on the road again, beginning to repel the miracles of the dead and the prophets hysterical aberrations and Doctors of the Church, following the poor in spirit communion.
A new explanation of the world is becoming necessary for open minds Europe and America, and started in the last century the positive sciences, regardless unknowable origin of things to explain the facts of nature natural causes; leaving why they occur, which until now has spread to the faithful and unfaithful men, bitter and angry each other on their different priori explanation of the mysteries the universe to contract to investigate how they are produced, that being yourself for all observers, is a common capital for men of all races, all colors, locations and climates, a bond of mutual approach for mutual benefit.
And without a priesthood in isolation from family and homeland and devoted exclusively to propagate and operate without orders of chivalry and preachers to its service without Jesuits fighters their flanks, without missionaries to disseminate it without a pope at its head, not despots to impose it by force, the ultimate explanation of universe and life expands, diffuses and spreads spontaneously, not on the edge of the sword, and medieval religions, but on the wings of the book and newspaper, enlisting its own intrinsic superiority to all men and women, as beyond the intellectual level of the past that occurred official superstitions official religions, because just as fetishism Catholic v.
Gross ignorance of the grossest superstition, and helping the mild climate and soil fertility in privileged regions, one at another superstition to highest of the highest to science compulsory creed to free thought, truth revealed the truth demonstrated, in the religious magic rational mechanics; of palms blessed the lightning rod, the miracle steam, railway, telegraph, telephone, of rogation to the surgery and the serum of ecclesiastical censorship to freedom of the press; "the holy ignorance" to compulsory education, this has been the upward march human spirit, driven by the need to know the why of things to behave opposite things.
Question of thousands or hundreds of centuries to climb the first steps of evolution, tens only to the past, has become, under the impulse of instruction liberal public, a matter of only dozens of years to achieve significant capacity increases mental in the individual and the community.
Well, according to known psychophysiological laws, exercising the body develops, and some part of this or the ability to reproduce, spread, also roughly the offspring by so that, once lifted up by men and upper and middle of an era moral or intellectual level of the subsequent reporting enterprise, emerging for their respective race from a base platform or higher, go further with the same flow or momentum, that is what explains the notorious fact that men and upper middle France For example, when taken together, are worth many times more than Spain, in the same alleged Latin race, or those of Argentina - who had a Rivadavia, a Mitre and Sarmiento, - much more than those of Bolivia, which has had many bishops and any educator in America itself the South and the Pope, which explains that a Voltaire, a Michelet, a Renan, a Taine, a France, being a natural in France, would be an amazing event in Spain, absolutely impossible in Morocco.
Now, superstition, is not a false knowledge of things, is a activity of the mind - very poor, no doubt, but "better than nothing" - and according with the aforementioned laws, the mind developed by the former superstitions, how slowly it was, grew at last, somewhere, enough to exceed them, making necessary the second, then third, and so on, culminating in paganism gender, Buddhism, Judaism, Christianity and Mohammedanism, which topped the age of the imagination.
Poorly fed with lies, myths and legends, human intelligence has grown, Finally, enough food to need more consistent, less fantastic explanations and more positive events and things of the world, and started, then the age of reason, the progressive domination of man over the forces of nature conquered with positive methods of investigation.
As the men themselves, like animals all that at the end of their limited career pass to be a burden and hindrance, letters over the deck of universal life, he can not keep his perpetual youth, but by the perpetual renewal, the beliefs that extend beyond effectiveness of your radio, just as excessively elongated fingernails of aristocrats Siamese, for pregnant and narrow existence, should be, then swept by the benefactors oblivion and death, giving rise to new institutions, new forms of motion perpetual art.
The evolution of beliefs has been parallel with the understanding, and gods, demigods and current demigoddesses descended from prehistoric fetishes, as modern man descended from the caveman
