The apprehended no answer, and seemed determined to use the most studied reserve your correspondent, who showed keen interest in locking relationship. - Is telescope that? - Insisted the unofficial.
The owner of the telescope did not answer.
Semiavergonzado the questioner, voyeur everyone we surrounded the lord of the telescope, looking like a geeky guy who confesses to a false position.
But our man was not to assign individual strains and two relapsed. - Do I want to leave to look for a moment?
The owner of the telescope did not answer this time. - Hey, mister! - Timidly repeated touching on the arm - I want to stop looking?
The telescope took his eyes of glass, turned to see who spoke and answered dryly: - No!
The snubbed tried to forge a smile to hide.
Meanwhile, had won seats at the gate of the seawall where we were, a lady fat, with a style of bananas on which hung a Spanish mantilla sheet, tucking side by all the obstacles that had found its way, the face lit by a layer recently applied rouge, distributed a perennial smile everywhere, and tucked in a green dress Moiree, inflated by a moving and oscillating crinoline appeared Balloon in a time of rising.
A mole with hair on the lower face of our new arrival was a roguish air coquette withdrawal.
He was accompanied two undistinguished-looking girls, but plenty of cuddles and perendengues, bodies with a well designed, and a bust in which nature or art had abused with some insolence of a marked inclination to the exuberance.
The two girls, coming from the neighborhood of Montserrat probably verged on the 20 or 22 years and entered our group, which was narrowing, putting an unusual cacophony of screams and laughter which I could not explain causes. - Look, Mom - said the eldest, - this gentleman is so friendly, that will let you look through the telescope. - By God, Rachel!
Judith, by God, shut up - repeated the mother a continuous head wiggle.
The telescope remained impassive as a statue, as if no one spoke. - There is smoke, there are - shouted one nearby.
The human wave was stirred and an eddy, the people were grouped in the rail, everyone wanted to see.
But the crowd pulled him moving around.
Uploaded by Alexander, who with his arm it was free, he made his way as a Hercules, we went to take another position.
Yo, from the shoulders elevated my driver, saw the poor Dona Donata and her two biblical creatures, victims of the prognosis of her husband and manhandled by the mob undisciplined between the lad who had pirated it rude daughters and undid him bananas and tore his splendid parrot-colored dress, supreme admiration Montserrat district in a mass. - I have anchored, moored vessels have already! - Screaming around us .-- You see, sir, - I said a black gentleman petizón, tiptoe in vain to see, - see, there there - and pointed his index finger. - Where?
And indeed, a sudden white cloud enveloped the ship's sides and the echo of cannon dilated echoing dully through the spaces.
It was three in the afternoon of that sweltering day, the church bells cast in flight, rockets and bombs bursting in air without interruption.
While this operation took place, Alejandro and I beheld from afar, leaning over the fence, because we had left pass kiosks, entry forward.
On the beach, and at the foot of the seawall where we were, several rounds of Bass, in evening gown, had gathered to hear two of them, one armed with a guitar heavily ribbed white and blue, and one with an accordion, singing songs chauvinistic one of those tunes compadrito characteristics of Buenos Aires. - You sing the ring! - Shouted one of the listeners. - Your godmother! - Then said the guitarist, who actually had his eyes more twisted than a crossroads. - Sing what you arreglao ché pa National Guard.
The guitar with the accordion attacked a vulgar air, but rhythmic, ancestor straight from the milonga of the day, and behind the air, the nasal voice said ferrule and shocking the following couplet: Our National Guard in Cepeda and Pavón, bravely unparalleled was launched on the barrel the federal coward. - Lindo, Don Polybius!
If you Naide verseador race and wins.
Even the gringos of the whaling were drooling when you sing.
The shrill wheeze of the accordion would have followed, along with the wailing of the guitar if military bands had not announced that the column, formed already got underway along the waterfront.
That was when the crowd blocked the entrance, snatched by a row of guards armed, in charge of opening streets, swirled and fell back, compact, to tighten against the walls of the neighboring houses, a troop of horsemen came from the town, occupied abandoned space.
Gold dazzled me gals, white feathers and blue elastics agitated by the wind, the bright colors of the uniforms.
Alexander I lifted up so that he could see well, but barely had time to descry an elastic covering a long and rich mane of locks falling on an indolent and spacious front lead-colored eyes, all this supported on a body that would not have disdained to Doré Lafayette in drafting a distance.
Why have to be a nonsense, oh legitimate daughter of Don Francisco Camprodón adopted by every theater in Latin America?
Your octosyllabic murmuring stirred over night chest of the Virgin and the theater was not just your domain!
It was also the family, home, for all assailed him from the room of my Aunt Medea to the Academy of blacks and mulattoes was my brown hawk Alejandro.
I argue and argue as long as you have done to many of our poets: and enough to reflect a bit to notice that every social event seemed you in those days.
Some of your phrases as: "Do you have your sword tip?" Were enshrined as the Di quella pyre and the donna e mobile from Verdi.
But on this pyramidal tomb, built at the Talma and Keen of the large village, three figures rise: Lola, Diego and the Marquis, singing the national anthem prior to having their naive poem of jealousy and love to a room full, where the most beautiful women shine of those days.
My aunt had been accompanied by Miss Fernanda, I was accustomed to seeing frequently at home.
Fernanda was eighteen years old, pale, clear eyes and big, cold and as bewildered among the dense shaded circles that, in his thick lips that drew a mouth that could be called great without injustice, trazábase not know what vague smile on a shrewd observer would have found love and contempt together in a consortium inexplicable; the head was noble and proud, however.
At that time, which was an epic hairstyles of rollers and stuffed his Fernanda had such a simple, bordering on great elegance: her hair, a blond mate, collected and held by two strips of blue Moiree, were to finish in the most beautiful woman's neck.
His little heart, had, however, I do not know how appealing seduction, dilated by the softness around her bust, that grace her face radiated apathetic indolent the brush of Veronese printed on the face of Venetian patrician.
Was in short, that woman a set of coldness and eloquence, beauty and flaws that irresistibly attracted, and the originality of gesture and look aroused in me a deep and greedy curiosity.
A distinction was personified, the wrapping, the steam perfumed elegance an and good tone.
The other was a faun obese, his voice thick, its short neck, his chest invasive a mighty mustache, mustache was already almost, made it a chimera, in which both sexes blur.
That night was truly studded with diamonds from head to fingers, and as it had, and very good, one of their pride was hung for display.
Restless and talkative, kept a real telegram of greetings to the entire theater with the boxes, with the bowl, with the audience, everyone knew everyone greeted francachonamente with the fan.
Suddenly, a murmur of sympathy spread throughout the entire room and all eyes converged the central stage of the facet: many characters, dressed in the strictest etiquette, taking seat.
My aunt began to name them all. - Saluda, Ramon, compliments - I told my uncle. - If you come here, Medea ... - Yes you are, greet you say - and my aunt, at the same time ordering him to my uncle who salute, was repeated head movements towards the central stage, without being noticed by their occupants. - Who are they, madam? - Asked Fernanda.
But my aunt did not answer, determined to put your greeting in the faces of their idols and that her husband also places him physically shot it the arm and told him to wait for the occasion propitious to move the neck.
They both nodded urgently, made her a visual balance to hunt the adversary, but oh, mishap!
A look vague and indecisive, which I had a vague idea, crossed the line of the boxes without stopping at my aunt's brilliant, and greeting was a greeting in a vacuum.
My uncle coughed to hide the disappointment.
My aunt put the blame, claiming that he had taken the lead, my uncle wanted to rectify, but was ordered to be silent, and obeyed.
