Do you have a novitiate in the convent can go whenever you want ...
Obdulia again cover her face with her hands and sobbed: - Not that ...
I have a secret father a secret that hurts my heart long ago and I drown ...
You can no longer be my confessor - and suddenly raising the forehead, pale cheeks, eyes dry and bright, which was painted an extreme resolution, continued: - Be well, father, my whole life is meant to mourn ...
I also know that after this life I expected maybe an eternity of torment.
But despair has no torment nor fears anything.
I have cheated you, Father.
I do not want or I can be the wife of Jesus Christ, because it would be untrue to my oath.
I have within the soul, there in the corner hidden and sacred, a love which will be true all life.
This love is my delight and my torment.
Two years ago I live dying a death sweet, because I love my own suffering ...
Unknowingly, a parent, you have been poisoning me slowly, but, far from hating him, love him, love him with all my soul ...
I have tried start of my soul this love that consumes me, I've beaten my chest, I tortured my flesh ...
I know I'm doomed, but I love you ...
Take me where you please, but do not separate me you ...
Let me be your servant ...
Fell to his knees in front of his counselor, his face in his hands.
Al through his fingers thin you could see the bright lipstick that was covered.
His lips trembled to fulminate undoubtedly harsh sentence, but did not say it.
Launched quickly to the door and went for it.
Left home without realizing what he did.
Walked aimlessly through the streets a long time in a state of numbness that prevented him from reasoning about what just happened.
Physical exhaustion was his usual sedative effect and began to see clearly the situation.
He thought of telegraphing to the father, but it was not possible to explain in a telegram what happened, not even words could do it with dignity.
Besides, who knows than it would be able to see this mad if harassed!
A lively irritation was seized peaceful soul of the priest.
Had long believed not to the exalted blessed and now loathed.
When he returned home it was night.
She locked herself in her room without asking for his mate, and continued to meditate with feverish impatience on the same subject.
But did not move the site.
Was determined to never see her again while the prelate did not intervene in a matter that could so seriously to compromise.
Indeed, Obdulia lay in bed, senseless, and strangely pale.
He hurried to lavish all the care when it happened.
Between the employer and he temples bathed with cold water, I did smell some knobs which she brought in her hand bag.
It was not long open your eyes.
Spent some time with the serious look and fixed on the priest.
Make me a cup of lime juice. - Right now.
When they were alone, Bl long and looked back at him intently.
After a weak voice said: - Listen, father. - What do you want, my daughter - said nodding toward her. - Come you more ...
Fr Gil leaned further.
Sudden, unexpected motion, she devoted extruded bare arms of the bed and threw them around his neck, drew her face to it with unusual strength and kissed her long, wild, lips, and then another and another.
The priest struggled in vain to free herself.
Those arms are clasped as if they were of iron, and tag running around burning kisses his face relentlessly.
There was no sound in the room more the gentle sound they produced and the two breasts panting breath.
The young man fell heavily on the bed.
He just felt more shock, disgust and horror that, after hesitating few moments, lost consciousness and collapsed on the pavement.
Seeing him fall, the young man rose quickly out of bed and went to his assistance caring.
But to set foot on the floor, his weak nature, deeply disturbed by what he had happen and by the sight of her confessor lying on the ground, and also lacked fell prey syncope.
The Gil was a passenger fainted.
Sat up in the ground, and seeing Obdulia lying beside him in shirt and discovered a body part, felt a strong shudder of shame and rose as if moved by a spring.
Thinking with horror that he could get the love at the time, raced to the young among to transport arms to the bed.
When he was suspended for half a yard of soil, he felt noise at the door.
He turned his head in terror, and a gasp escaped embarrassment his throat.
At the door were Osuna, D.
Martín de las Casas and D.
Peregrin Casanova. - I dropped the lovebirds! - Shouted D.
Martin stentorian voice.
Miserable worm, should crush and cast after a wreck on the street to be eaten dogs!
Should nail you by the ears to the wall and expose to public embarrassment ...
In my house there will be such scandal ...
Spare a bit of surprise Fr Gil, then said firmly: - Gentlemen, this young man passed out while coming to help me for having fallen.
The I went with here, to beg you, because you want to enter a convent and devote themselves to God, which opposes his father for no reason or right and for that brutally abuses her ... - I mistreat my daughter, villain! - Shouted at the height of the outrage the hunchback, who had Obdulia transporting got into bed and was about to throw water on the face lies .-- and lies you say so.
I did not even know he wanted to join a convent ...
Peregrin with his shrill voice, administrative, - is knowledge of the fact immediately to the civil authority ...
To me it made me a father was governor of Tarragona ... - Let you in Tarragona, D.
Peregrin, who knows the people, go find a doctor ...
And you, Don Gil the love ...
to hell if you like. - To say that I abuse my daughter, because she wants to become a nun! - Kept exclaiming at under Osuna, while helping the hostess .-- Canalla, rather than rogue! - Mr Osuna, you excuse me ...
Already fix this issue in Peñascosa - uttered D.
Martin with his energy property .-- Now, over here! ...
Fr Gil went to the door, but when I was about to transpose, D.
Martin shouted as if you were in front of a battalion: Stop! - Friend Osuna - he said, addressing the hunchback, - you would have inferred a serious offense and you is not a decent if not now gives a slap to the individual who has offended (pointing for P.
There was awkward silence.
Osuna's countenance expressed uneasiness and hesitation. - Nothing, nothing - followed by the fierce invalid in his voice resonant theatrical beard - you are not man of honor, you have no hint of shame if corrective leaves the offense.
Osuna still hesitated a moment, cast a look of mercy to the invalid, but seeing his face ghastly, it was decided at last.
Fr Gil was densely pale, loomed two tears in his eyes, but made no move one to throw on her attacker.
XIII Thanks to the resolve of Obdulia, the matter was not brought to court.
From the first time admitted that he and solely responsible for the leak: the toilet no fault it had, only had assigned to accompany her after incessant requests and using of the scheme from abuse at home.
Peregrin Casanova, no doubt wishing to demonstrate no grudge against any of Osuna on the scene lighting, continued to believe that was instructed gubernatorial record.
But this is not unique of rocks.
The same applies Sarrió and Nieva.
Otherwise, how could life distinguished in these villages?
Against the advice of D.
Peregrin were all sensible people in the population.
A by affects the toilet, others timorous, some because they saw no reason to make a fuss, Osuna almost all advised they were staying.
They refused to assent to version of the maiden.
They felt it was a hoax forged by her to save, and if did not believe, at least expressed it, lowering his voice and grinning.
It I covered it with sarcasm, like the priest that her daughter's confession, and were run the villa thousand more or less ingenious pleasantry about his trip.
It is easy to guess that who else worked on this propaganda, but a sly way, was the P.
No chaplain was enough to be humiliated Sarrió ripping off his rival by Coadjutor belonged to him in justice.
I wanted to conclude it all costs, pulverized, not more hear his name on the lips of the pious women of rocks.
It seemed the occasion of pearls for it.
So he went spontaneously Osuna, asking if you did not think going to court.
When he learned that this could not be assumed because Obdulia all responsibility and claimed to have cheated on his confessor, experienced grief.
Such was his desire to exterminate P.
Gil, who was already a long time but that their relationships with it were strained, and even open hostility can be said, he ventured that far.
Three or four days after returning to Peñascosa saw one morning in church.
He sent a message by an altar boy who wanted to talk to her and waited in the sacristy.
It was beyond the young, though very bad wins.
The curate was made of honey treated her with extreme affection brilliantly handled the censer, knowing how sensitive he was alive and his love own.
When he thought having it soft, I did this with great circumlocution that he, as pastor coadjutor, had a duty to ensure the honor of all his parishioners, that it was walking in the mouths of people a few days ago, and this weighed on the soul by the particular affection that the professed.
We weighed all the more as he was sure there was no reason given for it.
He knew his generous character, his noble spirit, so I was convinced that On this occasion, as in many others, sacrificed for others.
However, this sacrifice was inadmissible, could be regarded as a sin.
The honor is not ours, is a repository God trusts us and that we have an obligation to defend.
Moreover, no disgrace was only for herself but also for his elderly father.
The poor are seen because of this nicknamed sacrifice and whispered in the village.
Even more, though that turned a good trait generosity, she and he, who were members of the Church, had a duty to report the ecclesiastical authority of any priest who act unreasonably in exercising its ministry, so it receives the fraternal condign punishment and prevent fees.
This it was in good faith.
She, as good Christian, was not to allow mock God's justice.
He understood perfectly that it would be painful to testify against her confessor; but it was a bigger sacrifice than being carried out, and God will surely appreciate.
Furthermore, it should be noted that when reporting to his confessor caused him no harm; the Otherwise, the punishment of the Church is seen as an asset, as a just expiation, when accompanied by repentance, sin and redeems us from the pains of hell.
Poor Narcissus ignored, despite having tried for so long, who they existed.
Before he had uttered a word, Obdulia knew what was going to say and how more or less, you know like turning life into your brain.
That ability monkish made platitudes crashed into the vivid imagination, the subtle wit and insight of the young saint.
Answered in the same tone persuasive, smooth, the cleric was adopted.
Nothing could accuse P.
Gil, who was a saint, an exceptional human being illustration served as a beacon in the parish from which it said had arrived, and whose modesty, selflessness and piety could serve as an example and encouragement to his teammates.
But but had reason to accuse him, he would refrain from doing very well, knowing that the scandal would use primarily the enemies of religion.
The lack of a woman when single leads only to her detriment.
That of a priest, into disrepute class and thus undermining the Catholic religion.
Several other considerations added, and including more than a sentence double acute intention known to the new coadjutor burnt horn. - Well, goodbye, D.
Narciso, and excuse me if I could not fully understand her charity.
Fr Narciso was grinning like a rabbit.
Displaying closed this route, came resolutely the other no less tortuous.
Melchior, the young born enemies toilet, vomiting venom against him, as logical.
But there were other Peñascosa few clerics who had always been fair.
In trying to attract them paint them the set from another point of view, ensuring that had reason to know secrets.
The trip was a real abduction thwarted.
Long ago he, D.
Narciso, was suspicious of what would happen.
The toilet had conceived an unholy passion.
The escape was agreed had been three months, and so on., etc.
I filled the head wind.
The position he occupied as pastor, in fact if not law, greatly facilitated this attraction.
It was agreed between the majority almost all of the chaplains of the villa, the excuse was a little boy with no weight or formality, which had disgraced the priestly class and God knows where it would stop if the bishop did not take action on the matter.
Since then half forgave all of them show their contempt.
Began to greet him coldly, then head back, then no answer.
When I walked into the sacristy, if there was other priests, noted that away from him and formed a separate group.
If I went to clothe to say Mass, was the day most of the clothes cupboard closed: I had to wait until D.
Be dispensed with him in the office when it was possible: not invited them celebrating Gaudeamus.
Finally, harassed him all the ways and manners that were offered.
Fr Gil was more surprised than angry that contempt.
Seeing that his colleagues dispensed him, they dispensed with without much regret.
Just spoke with Fr And Norberto D.
The old priest, who had been deprived of the leadership of fact remained, however, with determination their right, invented a thousand traces to prove the neighborhood.
He and D.
But he was afraid.
The former leader of the hosts Carlist was capable, if irritated him a little, beaten in the same church.
Don Miguel succeeded by terror.
Before he was treated with extreme consideration, and suffered with patience dashes that Occasionally he let go.
And when it happened to the young priest, preaching to the faithful at the offertory of the Mass, saying: "We pastors have a duty, etc., 'D.
Miguel, from his corner where he heard mass, uttering loud enough to hear him that around him, "Pastor I
