For something God has chosen to shepherd his flock.
He is so happy with the job and without it.
Nothing I know or anything you know ...
It was I who by hate injustice inspires me I dared to take this step ...
Quedósela again staring without blinking, absorbed in intense contemplation.
Obdulia lowered his head. - My daughter - she went on gravely, - youth has its rights.
You may be dazed, forethought as enjoyable without the gifts that God has favored us, living obfuscated without the thought of sin ...
But youth is not entitled to play for our salvation eternal, life and death.
The Holy Catholic Church has its ministers to ensure the faith.
I, though unworthy, I am one of them and I am responsible before God and Supreme Pontiff of my actions.
I have not learned any Pope or any decretal prelates that we had to account for them girls like you ... - Oh, my lord ...
I did not want! ... - Listen, you listen with patience, my dear, I heard you on your knees to your bishop.
Obdulia knelt again full of confusion, as red as a poppy.
The portly figure be enlarged enormously from the bishop before his eyes, his white hair crowned purple skull shining majesty. - The offices of the Catholic Church should not be coveted jobs: not searched accepted with humility and resignation.
The higher, harder and thorn is for those who want to serve God.
You, speaking of injustice, has apparently seen as a means of gain, and sinned grievously.
If I have not given the post of coadjutor to the person for whom you interest, that person should thank me because I have fought many terrible responsibilities that hamper their eternal salvation.
Obdulia, watching the lightning march again towards his confessor, found words to deflect. - Again I say, my lord, Gil's father knows nothing of this happened ...
to die of sorrow and shame if it comes to know, because it is the modesty and humility personified.
The estimation and respect that teachers, like all residents of this village, and my desire to see the parish in order and well served, I drove in a moment of levity to go His Grace ... - But do not you understand, my dear, that in taking this step, unusual in a young wise and pious you commit yourself, and what is worse, you commit yourself to a priest seriously? - Oh Holy Virgin!
His Excellency and rightly despises me because I'm just a poor dumb ...
The horrible thing is that from now on will be warned against poor fool ...
Sosiéguese you and learn that a successor of the Apostles did not prevention may feel no hatred.
If you have sinned, ask for absolution from his confessor.
Serénese you, no punishment has caused more than herself ...
Neither the innocent and the guilty are nothing to fear from me.
I fear that all of God ...
After asking many times for forgiveness and shed countless tears, kissed her again with Obdulia devotion ring prelate, and rose.
Excuse me Your Excellency the disgust that I have caused, and forget it. - May the Blessed Virgin protect you, my child.
Say a save for me, well I need it - answered The prelate, letting go and looking at her expression of shame until it broke through the door.
Left stunned, mad with shame, his hands trembling and her cheeks flushed.
As came home got into bed with a raging fever.
XI Already guessed the riddle, father Gil - said D. Álvaro from his chair when he saw him enter.
The smile that accompanied these words was so surprised that was contracted and cold. - What enigma? - Asked P.
Gil, a little shaken by the presentiment of some misfortune. - Do not be frightened, not that of Creation: an enigma more modest, the coming of my Peñascosa woman a few months ago ...
The young priest took from the hands of primogeniture which presented itself and began to read: * * * * * "My dear Alvaro: I know that Joaquina gave birth six days ago a child, which enrolled in the parish and civil registration with your name.
I have tried to inform me and they said it was perfectly legitimate, since your wife has been in Peñascosa few months ago and has stayed in your own home.
I doubt it, because I've never said a word about it.
The mayorazgo laughed. - But do you think there is still infamous in the world?
I want to tell me how it is possible to crap in a toilet.
For Apparently, you are still attending the first performance of the comedy.
For the same force infamous (Now that's the infamous!), The same force that moves the spider and the dove is the living inside my wife.
The fly, chicken and I deserve the same fate for being born.
Because felony - the man is being born, has already said Calderon, who was a priest like you.
Is infamy infamy always in our minds and awakens a feeling of disgust.
The Spider and the Kite not that they do evil, but his wife knows. - What does it matter?
Empower you to the beast with an awareness of their actions and you will be formed man.
The same crimes can be executed in darkness than light.
If I thought like you there is a God conscious creator of all beings, we send a "kissing hand" praising him for having been a child so kind and lovely as my wife and thanking her for having reserved for me particular application
