Desire was to suddenly reached the girl and slipped the turkey, that is, to say no ceremony, her daring thoughts but Mutileder was beside her, looking suspicious everywhere, with the beard on the shoulder, distrustful and hostile attitude, and brandishing a huge and fierce club.
It was enough to see a glancing blow to Mutileder bear was able to wear yourself out to any of a club, if he were to break down a bit with the beautiful and candid Echeloría.
Adherbal, as said, was wise, but he was also stubborn, enterprising and cunning.
Echeloría it was not a fleeting impression and light, but deep and durable.
Two or three times was then surreptitiously Churriana horse, and returned to see the child, being captive to its unique charm.
Finally, through the clever people of the country, it was reported Echeloría life, he knew I was going to marry Mutileder, and no detail was that you fail to take full news.
These elements formed Adherbal a diabolical plan, which went right, as unfortunately go wrong almost every diabolical plans.
One early morning the ship weighed anchor and set sail from the port of Malaga, after saying goodbye kick him.
Out port and the ship, he was very near the coast to the west, tacking to win best wind.
So a few hours elapsed until he reached one in which the gentle Echeloría down to bathe in the sea.
Adherbal then jumped in a very light boat with eight rowers vibrant and two other men of the crew, great swimmers and divers, and the most agile and devoted to him.
With the boat approached cautiously, hiding in the recesses of the coast and away from the rocks and hillocks, until came close to where Echeloría bathing, believing the most secure and complete neglect.
The swimmers then thrown into the water, dove, which suddenly emerged Echeloría was bathing, seized her despite her cries, which soon ended in fainting caused by Swat, and in that provision, beautiful and interesting as a nymph, is the led to the boat where the Adherbal in his arms, and then drove on board his ship.
Several girls, who bathed with Echeloría, fled in terror from that zalagarda, and jumping on the ground, alarmed by her moans and sobs to the nurse, who was ecstatic and nothing was noticed.
In contrast, just found out what happened, to extreme samples of their pain.
There was the venerable gray pull each other's hair, the rolling on the floor, and so formidable to shrieks, which Mutileder, though far, went to the site, listening to them.
The unhappy lover knew then all the enormity of their misfortune, but too late Unfortunately
