Because, those pleasures, that you enjoyed, that made him lay down other higher, due to her panic! ...
She was also flesh and blood, and to be with you felt powerless to resist the passion demanding: after, alone with his own consciousness, urgent voice heard!
She knew that I had returned to life, would it have destroyed Knock out the effect of his teachings?
You say that killing, wanted to evade evil, but do you think that in doing so has done well?
And those are the principles that you spread your books?
Could she have missed his word? - You can not swear an eternal love ... - And you swore to her? - You can not love who does not love. - Would you say the same if you were the left?
These ideas, the contrast of illusion with reality, the struggle of duty with pleasure wounded the unfortunate death, making it difficult to see and feel how life is.
Who wanted to leave it is too obvious.
Lack only show that really put into practice its purpose.
There is no direct evidence, but all presumptions are against you.
Think you coldly if able, the amount of circumstances that lie ahead, and you'll see that I have reason to think so.
Up declaring the last minute tied the other, refuses to listen to you, you plot to leave it!
With great difficulty, after insisting earnestly, you will start to permit hope: hope ambiguous, uncertain, distant, can you leave to take for not received, she could not deny, but commits to nothing.
Given the nature of Countess, the seriousness of his scruples, the sincerity of his remorse, we believe that as soon as you left, she again began to accuse, to prohibit the keeping of hope just grant and accept.
In this situation, what reason was the Prince to kill?
Still loved her, or if you please, was jealous, jealous was brutal those jealous mean offense to ownership and nothing more.
News had to make sure that slightest effort to prove his good, a word of love, a kind word, would prevented the Countess out of you.
I believe that there is jealousy, which is not hate, what makes you dismiss both the man, I admit I do not have good feelings place in the Prince and that, in reality, it is capable of a common crime.
But the malignancy more brutal has nevertheless need a pretext if not reason to arm and hurt.
No doubt that without it between your will, self-esteem suggests that reasoning: that is logical.
But If the Countess had wanted delivered to the inclination I felt for you, no one would have stopped when Zakunine was away.
If the disability had come from him, she might have to rebel and challenge; but did not come from him but herself, her inner consciousness.
Now, would you have been the nihilist?
This would have died at the Countess because she loved the Prince and was jealous of her rival.
But in this case, no difficulties are less than the other: on the contrary!
Then, if the friend you had not had reason to flee the life, we would if host the suspected murder narrowly founded that outside as it is.
But the reasons are having driven to suicide, not only missing, but abound.
You have, however, an argument on your part, you just ...
Ferpierre paused a moment to breathe.
Roberto candle plant remained in the same position that from the beginning I had heard, head bowed, hands tightly clenched, and who hopes a fatal blow. - There are hundreds and thousands of women in the position of the Countess d'Arda, in his scruples and the temptations of passion, not go so far as to commit suicide.
Expected, and over time fit to a life unbearable thought for a moment: compromise with his scruples; found in the example of others an excuse and confidence in the future redemption.
Such is the behavior of all, almost all.
You have well defined from the outset, the importance for this reason.
But to believe that, to argue that the Countess has not even wanted to kill himself after their final explanation with you, at the sight of evil inevitable, you have to admit that his friend, that this woman, whose greatness of soul prefers you and I really created by these confessions, the statements of people who knew her, you have Admittedly, I say, instead of resisting to the last, was also capable, like the others, of these comfortable transactions that we witness everyday.
You may be right ...
Candle plant resistance had stung, suggesting arguments whose force against charge you looked great, but at last, seeing that the other agreed with him, instead of asserting in his opinion, turned to doubt.
The reconstruction of the drama was credible, but nobody could statements that were true, and as to the possibility of murder, was in fact unsustainable?
Having developed one of the two hypotheses, it should examine the other and this task was prepared, with a growing antipathy toward the accused.
Moved by the pain of candle plant, keen interest by the deceased, more than ever distrustful of the Russians.
The day following the interrogation of the young, was, along with several packets of letters, Nice and Zurich abducted, the information requested to the chief of police department and the Russian legation in Bern, about two nihilists.
What is already known about the nature Prince Alexis Petrovich was confirmed and documented by extensive and detailed reports from both sources, full of statements made in previous political processes.
But also learned things I had never suspected.
Heir to the genius of the Slavic race, moved by feelings too impetuous and neighbors of the primitive instincts, Zakunine suffered, moreover, that hysteria which, according to science modern nerve disease has been found, is not only a painful privilege female.
Truly amazing things related of the Prince, his tumultuous youth.
Fatherless, hatred since childhood had been the second husband of her mother had turned into homicidal mania.
Constantly beaten cruelly punished with a savagery that far exceeded the severity merited by their sins, your character had soured.
One day - have not had more than ten years - walking with a comrade of the same age, approaching a railway station.
The friend had told him that keeps travel lines the path of the rails that are responsible for monitoring, to ensure that no obstacle threatened the safety of the train, then he took advantage of a time when your partner does not I watched him, and no more mobile than a perverse curiosity of evil, had put on the rails two large stones, and had stayed around till the train came to judge the spectacle of the disaster.
The rocks were quite large, but, fortunately, very resistant, and the wheels of the machine reduced them to dust without departing point.
In separate occasion, Some years later, the insanity of that being cold was manifested in another way, against itself.
Went about their possessions in Little Russia, and a boy, the son of a peasant, who served as a guide, was explaining the qualities of trees and herbs as they passed a green bush, the boy pointed to a small plant with long leaves and hairy, and he said: "This is Bethlehem, a terrible poison." Then, quickly, without giving his time guide to approach him, not to prevent the act, pulled few pages could hold his hand and ate it.
The guide had deceived the henbane plant was not, but for a whole day, they had all Alejo Zakunine believed poisoned, and were among admired and amazed to see the ironic joy with which he awaited death, and rebuked those who showed distress.
Without money, the devil had taken Game by the hair, one night after losing a sum that could not pay, had fired a pistol shot in the heart, not surviving their shame, the bullet, straying, he had broken the humerus.
As a matter underhand had a duel, and had not wanted reconciled with his adversary, but later had saved him from death, with risk his life, heroically.
To eighteen years had been impossible to do learn anything, or persuade him consider a single lesson, but once ashamed to speak French woman, a girl, believing that language expert had changed his life overnight, during two or three years, no one saw him again: delivered to the studio with the same energy he devoted to bad, he quickly recovered the lost time.
Nothing was difficult for smooth and sharp intelligence.
His will was capable of acts of firmness railroad, relentless perseverance, but it always remained the same, with the abduction of tenacious effort alternated frequent crises of nervous, sickly relaxation.
This side of his moral constitution was less known for the kind of jealous that put shame to hide their weaknesses.
Cold and hard with their peers, loved animals with human affection.
Passionate hunting, his dogs were his friends, talked with them, kissed them, looked straight in the eyes, as if to penetrate their dark soul gross.
Faced with those tiny beings became humble served them personally, is unaware of himself for taking care of them not missing nothing, and if any of them got sick, did not give a moment's rest.
One of his dogs died with his head resting on his knees, looking up to the last moment with his eyes dull and sad, and when he was already stiff, when he felt cold and lifeless body before vibrating under his touch, when he had understood the mystery of death, crying, a mute and copious tears spilled from her eyes.
With females was not as loving as with males: the lashes discharged his hand in moments of anger, fell only over them, but one day cease to provide the difference, seeing a dog, after having given birth to many suffering half a dozen puppies, got sick, but not consented, in which the removed children and howled so piteously, that, finally, is the returned, and died with all his offspring turned on the chest.
In the company of the women had fled as instinctively, since childhood, but at twenty years, killed his mother, who owns a vast fortune, came at once, with transformation sudden, the solitary life of the country, where violent exercises alternated with mortifications of the study, to be delivered cold and almost studiously to the elegant and unhealthy pleasures of the city.
It dispelled a lot of money and a lot of nervous energy: its constitution and unbalanced is exhausted.
Love, the first love of my soul, it inspired the daughter of Prince Arkof.
The effect of moral anachronism in that nature than others, did not need to impress loved with an affection young, naive and shy when for any another man had already passed the time of that love.
His teenage years were lonely and savage poetic been visited by ghosts, but by those laws of balance and compensation seem to extend its empire in the world of matter to the spirit world, the poetry of the heart, whereby seemed to subtracted, seized him when he was just immersed in the most prosaic and base loves.
And shame had driven a time to banish from his mind the limbo of ignorance, moral confusion subjugated his soul.
From one day to another and for a brief time there, no one recognized in him the same man and he left unworthy companies after vile entertainment, for a reaction that was not have foreseen, not live but dreams of pure contemplation, in silent adoration and unobtrusive; all that's not encouraged other purpose than to be worthy of being loved by a exemplary life.
The charm and the spell was broken again to work on it when the tyranny of parents of Princess Catherine made it to marry the Borischof general, governor of Kiev.
The impetus wild, violent convulsions, then returned to assault him, but something strange!
not immediately seized his soul, whose capacity could be proved sentimental and measured by this, he knew restrained and resigned to the idea that his wife's heart was in the arms of another.
As I hardly talked and ignored her feelings, having content to pine for her from afar, he thought, seeing her accept the general's hand, which I loved him, that he would be happy with it.
And bleeding heart, consumed with grief, fell, withdrew in order not to be an obstacle to her happiness, but when he learned that his successful rival not worth the fortune he had reached, that not only was not happy, but insulted, abused and mortified at being who he would have wanted to save, not only pain, but even uncomfortable idea, a furor that was anger, remorse and contempt, threw him to the field of nihilists who were preparing to kill the terrible governor.
Discovered the conspiracy, his rank and above range, the reason entirely moral guiding him, saved him cruel punishment inflicted on his companions, but that policy, which had been indifferent until that day, it suddenly ignited.
In the frequency of the revolutionaries during the preparation of the plot had failed, dominated as it was by another idea, to lie in the arming reasons: love freedom, hatred of tyranny, the thirst for justice, the ideal of brotherhood were incomprehensible for the love avenger, but when arrested and prosecuted, he met the brutal treatment police, judges unconsciousness, the heroism of the conspirators, when he was banished of the country, when observed, traveling the world, with a heavy heart, the painful contrast proud of the greatness and miseries incurable suddenly wore a new ideal before their eyes: the human redemption.
But, as expected, not that time has kept restraint.
In France, the Netherlands, Germany, in England he sought the party bosses and anarchist nihilist, as he could from his forces and all their personal activity to propaganda, mixed into new conspiracies that effects were bloody, and was again convicted and sentenced to death.
With incredible recklessness returned several times to Russia in secret to see their co-religionists, to encourage and direct: in danger of falling into the hands of justice, was miraculously saved, and continued after plotting abroad, always dreaming and preparing the social cataclysm had to open the doors of his country and regenerated.
Viva Print Ferpierre occurred in the judge's reading of these documents.
