MANILA Font establishment of Modesto Reyes and Ca Salcedo, 190.
TH Pardo de Tavera.
After the story of a thousand and five hundred islands that make up the Philippine Archipelago is that of the "hundreds of races that inhabit the islands Babylonian confusion," as says a geographical lyrical author who wrote about this country.
By omission of rocks, boulders, insignificant islets, many without vejetación, others with only one species of birds and some insects and wildlife, and most without a human being who will live in them, are, as inhabited islands and only have, being the Philippines, a few from Luzon, which is the largest, to that of Cagayancillo, which is one of the tiniest.
So it is with the famous 'races' pompous name whose meaning has been confused by applying it to political groups in no different from each other.
Recent ethnographic studies have shown that the races that inhabit our islands are three, viz: Negritos, Indonesian and Malay.
But these breeds are not only various miscegenation but a great variety of tribes mainly characterized by languages ??or, rather speak Filipino dialects.
If we will found in linguistic reasons for give names to the different groups of men, the number of races called Philippine to be quite grown, not yet come to the figure reached today and the teacher Blumentritt had the patient work together in alphabetical order a brochure published in Spanish with the title "The races of the Philippine archipelago." As powerfully clear linguistic studies anthropological issues, I believed that would be useful to information to establish the etymology of the names today apply to the different tribes, with the name of races, Philippines.
Political divisions of the islands almost always respond to divisions based on language, so that, beginning with taking charge of the names that characterize the provinces when these are applied to groups that speak the same language, found on the island of Luzon the following: Tagalog, Pampanga, Bicol, Pangasinan, sambal, Ilocano, Ibanag or Cagayan.
After see that within each of these provinces have different tribes, many with language carrying different, for this reason or another unknown, a different name.
Visayas applies to three dialects spoken in Cebu, Iloilo and Negros: Calamian or Cuyo is also pool name linguist and Mindanao to get see that not a territorial division the character is already in Luzon.
Many tribes have by name, a geographical name: another reason is discovered topographic, or local customs, or other relationship with neighboring tribes.
Sometimes names are simply applied to local residents, other times the source the name does not appear so clear and to discover its etymology is to start by decomposing to discover the root as discussed below.
For convenience we divide the names that we shall study in the following groupings: Compounds with the prefix Taga. "With the prefix I. "With the prefix A. "With the prefix Ma "With the Non prefix. "With the prefix and suffix Ka W 'in other ways. * * * * * TAGA prefix.
The meaning of such code is provided for us Polynesian languages: in Samoa is called taga-ta man, in Tahiti, losing the g we find the word taa-ta.
One of the major linguistic groups in the Philippines is composed of the Tagalog with which name are called the inhabitants of the provinces of Manila, Bulak, Nueva Ecija, Bataan, part of Tarlac, Laguna, Tayabas and the District of Morong, with about 1,250,000 individuals.
There is no doubt that in the old, all these men were not called Tagalog, this was named a fraction Manila lived and, by extension, be applied by the Spanish to all those who spoke the same language.
This percentage was the one who lived in Tondo, Manila and Basin peoples Pasig, therefore, some ancient authors, by etymology of how it sounds, explained the formation of the word as a contraction of taga-ilog "inhabitant the river, "but this is not possible, because if so there would be missing the point t, and even if this had happened, it could not have been as pronounced tagalog in the second but where required tagalog the phonetics of the word with similar origins.
Probably in those days were called alog those lands, and the name, outdated and obsolete in today's Tagalog, has been only in Pangasinan.
The Indians who inhabited the highlands as today called taga-Bukit (bukit 'land high) and the mountains taga-bundok (bundok, "the mountain").
In the lagoon itself, the inhabitants its banks were known by the name of taga-Doong, so people also called of the plain.
Doong means' pier, place, or cuddle shore where boats. " While in Manila called taga-bundok to the Highlanders, in Laguna knew they by Tinguianes.
I had read some authors hit the floor ting, noting the difference the language that existed between the inhabitants of the Ting and valleys.
Undoubtedly wanted once say 'mountain', and that meaning, lost today in Tagalog, there is still Malay.
Looking for references to this voice, I found the following in the Words of Fr Santos: "The Ting are from the mountains of San Pablo by Nagcarlan to Calaylayan, where he was Header formerly Tayabas, and then run the hills of Cabinti up Ulinguling, that is top of Mabitac. "A few lines before he said:" The Ting own or woodlands which leaves no doubt as to the significance attached to this voice.
From left Tinguian tingui formed with its fixed an serving here to name people.
The inhabitants of the province now called Batangas not initially called Tagalog.
Tagabawa is the name given to the mestizo means Bagobos, Manobo and tagakaolos that by Montano, are scattered on both sides of the gulf of Davao (Mindanao) near Son River.
We know that in the language of many of those tribes in the Bagobos, for example, taga prefix has the same meaning as in Tagalog and wider still, because there is significance of man who possesses or has this or that object, preceded by the prefix.
On the island of Paragua, Palawan or live on the coast Moors who came from Jolo and Mindanao and within some indigenous idolaters, considered Aboriginal struggle with the sea and who call themselves Tagbanuas.
We should note that in this name see linguists two procedures: the first is used as the Tagalog, using the affix taga, and the second form with the suffix non Bikol has the same meaning. * * * * * Prefix I.
Almost all compounds with the kennel name I belong to most hill tribes Northern Luzon are: Ibalibon, Ibilaw, Ifugaw, Igorots (Igolot) Ilongot, Isinay, Iraya, Italon, Itawe.
Ilokano é Ibanag that inhabit the plains, the Ibalon in South Luzon and The Idan in Paragua.
To find their etymologies will resort to the language spoken by the kagayanes, the Ilokano and gaddanes that are most important to that region.
The prefix I in Ibanag, a language spoken by the indigenous civilizations that inhabited the regions Call Cagayan and Isabela, has the same meaning as in Tagalog taga.
Originally called Ibanag to the inhabitants of the shores of that Aparry river from which population is nearby the sea, to the region called disseminate, and more properly from Aparri to Takalawa, a district of Lalo, to Gataran.
Based on this principle, let us see the etymology of the other names mentioned, noting that, as we know them today in its Spanish form, we begin by deprive them of the foreign elements that appear in your build, to consider only an indigenous form.
The italones (italon) lived in the ancient forests that extend to the northeast tip of Pampanga, being now in the mountains of Nueva Vizcaya and Principe.
Language Gadda, heel means "mountain" in what follows that italon means "mountain." Comes in support of this interpretation of Itaú supply faucets, strictly itaw depriving them of the termination indicating plural is Castilian, which is the name of some infidels living in the plains adjacent to the above.
Daya, Raya or Saya means "East" and "South" in several languages N.
region of Luzon, but in this case, refers to E.
because, although we know that they are to S.
of kalataganes is not the topographical relationship to these giving them the name but their situation with respect to the Itetapanes.
Here are some Montagnards living in the O.
of Isabela de Luzon, west of the Iday and the name says so, because in Ibanag, Telapan Tatalapan and means the 'West'.
The Katalanganes are the same men who Iraya speak the language these and its name comes from the river on whose banks they inhabit, name which, in turn, is derived from Talang, a pine species in those sites grows in abundance.
Commonly called Igorots the savages who inhabit the mountains of Luzon and even other islands, but in the ancient chronicles Filipino known only to that name Igolot or rather, in true Indian form, the infidels living in Benguet and nearby Mount Sto.
Now understood to also appoint the bloodthirsty savages North of Luzon, but the German ethnographer Hans Meyer and then Dr.
Schadenberg, say should only be so called infidels who inhabit Benguet and Lepanto.
It's called a dialect spoken inibaloy by the Igorots and this voice, in Ilocano, simply means "language of foreigners." The so-called infidels Isinays are about living in the western part of the Nueva Vizcaya also known by the name of Ituyes by province formerly called the county Ituy they inhabit.
The italones that we mentioned before, are of the same tribe race: at least Dominican missionaries say the peoples italones New High Ecija, belong to the ibilaos and these are also known by the name of Ilongot.
Is known to yogades (yogad) or to a montañeces gaddañes currently living on the slopes of the Cordillera Central, the western boundary of the province of Isabela, from the left bank of the Magat River, river end of the Mercedes, to the jurisdiction Christian peoples Itawes.
The etymology of both names gives us Ibanag language resembles both Gadda, resulting Gadd and yogad that have the same meaning and origin, only the first is the name of second place and the tribe.
Have failed my research on the etymology of other names such as some suppose ILOKO Influenced by the analogy, derived from ilog 'dweller river, "without noting that the radical referred to ends with g, and examined by voice k: i also the word ilog, river, not as in ILOKO, a prefix, but an integral part radical.
I can not say anything about Ibalon, the old name that was given to the people of Camarines.
Ilamut, Igorot tribe that resides in the mountains located between Nueva Vizcaya and Benguet, radical seems formed lamut Gadda, "mixture", meaning perhaps mestizo is etymology only probable.
Iday is variable yraya already examined.
Ilan, Illanes, lanos, wool, malanao are names given to certain people pirates the coast of Mindanao.
Maguindanaw is the indigenous name of the island of Mindanao or rather, only part of it.
Its inhabitants are called the same way.
Continued Danaw, water and lagoon, and applied this name to this region around the great lake of Danaw.
For the Moors called Illanes, Ilan Malanaw are also referred to, has the same derivation that Maguindanaw: lanaw, danaw variant, and the voice Illan, strictly speaking Ilan has the same i affix origin, used more in the languages ??of the north of the archipelago.
The mamanuas are some infidels who inhabit the Surigao peninsula and the shores of Lake of Mainit (Mindanao).
The etymology comes to corroborate this view, showing that the name of those black boys Banu is derived from land, country; mamanua "inhabitants of the country" with a phonetic transformation of b in m.
A mountain tribe of infidels in the interior of Mindanao, whose district is not known to me accuracy, or mananapes mananap called in Spanish form.
Also is named to the other idolatrous infidels in Mindanao, and is easy to understand that this term embraces distant tribes to be so widespread and attending to what it really means
