Canon Obrero more than once he had put right out in the street if it were not for consideration to the memory of his father and grandfather and name it takes, we all know that the moon is old in the cathedral as stones of the walls ....
In the good times of the cathedral and you had been peeled to rape.
The cathedral is beautiful as always, but not found by some the majesty of worship the Lord.
So does the choirmaster, indignant to see that in large only parties took seats in the middle of half a dozen chorus of musicians.
Young people living in the Claverias not love our cousins ??and complains about how short they are salaries, regardless of the time enduring religion.
If this continues, I do not miss see this bird and others as villains like him playing hopscotch on the cruise ...
He then continued: - This gentleman, here you see, is not happy with their condition, and that which, being almost a kid, took the position that his poor father could not get up to thirty years.
Want be a bullfighter, and even a Sunday ventured out in a bullfight in the Plaza de Toledo.
Despite his poor head, is from twenty years the position of dogcatcher of the holy cathedral, which can only be reached in better times came after many years and good handles.
Cobra realitas its six newspapers, and as the church is loose, can teach the curious to outsiders.
With the tips that fall is better than me.
Foreigners who visit the cathedral, excommunicated people looking at us like monkeys rare and we are all curious and worthy of laughter, set in it.
The English will wonder if it is toreador, and he needs to do more ...!
Seeing that give the taste, loose the bag of lies (because nobody liar leg check above) and count runs great bearing given in Toledo and beyond, the bulls is dead ...
and those England simpletons take note on their albums, and even some blonde bigeye drawn from stroke the head of this swindling.
For him what matters is that you create the lies and finally we long the peseta, it matters little that these heretics are to their land being disseminated in the Cathedral of Toledo, in the Metropolitan Church of Spain, employees are bullfighters and help religious ceremonies between run and run.
So it seems in that suit, according to the choirmaster, who knows much about such things, a certain tooth or do not know how, living in Italy for centuries and went to hell, writing his journey in verse.
Steps sounded on a narrow spiral staircase, punching the wall, connected the welcome to the upper floor. - It Don Luis - said Wooden Staff -.
Going to say his Mass in the chapel of the Tabernacle, and then the chorus.
Gabriel got up from the couch to greet the priest.
It was small and weak constitution, highlighting it from the first glance the disparity between the ailing body and the enormous head.
The front, curved and outgoing with his weight seemed to crush factions brown, irregular, disrupted by the imprint of smallpox.
It was ugly, however, expression of his blue eyes, the brightness of the teeth healthy and white alike, who seemed to light mouth, and smile naive, almost childlike, which folded lips, gave his face that sympathetic expression reveals to simple absorbed in artistic hobbies. - "So the Lord is the brother of whom you spoke me so much? - Said to hear the presentation Stephen was doing.
Gabriel put his hand in friendship.
Both were sickly: the imbalance Organic seemed to attract them as brothers. - Since the Lord has studied at the Seminary - said the Kapellmeister - know something music. - That's all I remember from those lessons. - And so much traveling around the world, have heard good things ...! - Something about that.
Music is for me the most gratifying of the arts.
I understand some of it, but "I feel it." - Very good, very good.
He talked like a restless child, not wanting to sit for more than Silentiary, each of developments around the room, offered a chair.
Went back and forth with raw mantle and the tile in hand, a poor hat no trace of hair, dented, with a layer of fat in the wings, miserable and old as the cassock and shoes.
Despite this poverty, the teacher chapel had a certain elegance.
Her hair, too grown for custom ecclesiastical is curled at the top of the skull.
The arrogance with which folded his cloak around of her body reminded layer opera tenors.
There was a certain amount of panache profane that betrayed the artist buried in clerical robes, eager to fly out of them, leaving them to their feet like a shroud.
And we should be in the "cathedral.
It's almost eight. - It's true, man's funny that you who remember me.
Then he said to the priest musician: - Don Luis, his Mass is at eight.
Will talk after things with Gabriel.
Can be drawn to the dessert, as you say, because in these times the devil hardly gives the office to eat.
The choirmaster nodded sadly nodded and left after two temple servants, disgruntled, as if you drag a painful and unpleasant work.
Humming absently to shake hands with Gabriel, and he thought he recognized a fragment of Septimino of music Beethoven, deaf and cut out from the lips of the young priest.
Moon lay on the sofa, abandoning themselves to be just fatigue after the long wait to the cathedral.
The old woman who served as his brother stood beside him a jug of milk, filling after a glass.
Gabriel drank, making efforts to master the trembling of her stomach patient, who was struggling to expel the liquid.
Your body, exhausted by the bad night and fatigue of waiting, finally assimilated food, sinking into a sweet languor that had not in a long time.
Gabriel was able to fall asleep, and so was more than an hour, still in the couch, cutting several times their uneven breathing with the rattle of hollow cough, that did not reach his dream fade.
When he awoke, he was hit with a nervous tremor that shook the feet to the head, making him jump off the couch and the influence of a spring.
Was the concern of danger that it had been fixed for ever in the habit of uneasiness made in the dark dungeons, all the time while waiting to see the door open to be beaten like a dog or led to the execution table at the double row of rifles, and more than this, the habit of living in all countries watched, sensing the police spying around him, caught in the middle of the night in lodging rooms for the order to leave immediately, the anxiety of the former Asheverus, hardly like a moment of rest, I heard the eternal "Go, go." He would not sleep more, as if afraid to suffer again the nightmares of dreaming black.
Preferred reality: the silence of the cathedral which enveloped him in a sweet caress, calm augusta temple, a huge mountain of carved stone crushing seemed to weigh on him, hiding forever haunted his weakness.
He left the cloister, and put her elbows on the railing looked at the garden.
Children who encouraged them to start the day were school, the women in their homes, preparing food.
Sunlight bathed the whole side, the shadow of the columns cut obliquely large gold boxes covering the tiles.
August silence, calm saint of the cathedral, entered the agitator as sweet narcotic.
The seven centuries attached those stones seemed just like so many veils that isolated from the rest of world.
In a room of the Claverias sounded a hammer ringing incessantly.
Was that of a shoemaker that Gabriel had seen, through the glass of a window, bent at his bedside.
In the patch of sky framed by the roofs fly some pigeons white moving their wings as if in a lake bogasen bright blue.
When fatigued, descending the cloister, and clinging to the railings, undertook a whisper that shook the religious silence like a sigh of love.
From time to time opened the gates of the cathedral, scattering in the garden and the Claverias a breath of air laden with incense, organ roars and bass voices singing Latin words solemnly prolonging the syllables.
Gabriel looked at the garden, bordered by white stone arches and buttresses rough of berroqueña dark, in whose peak rains left an efflorescence of fungi black velvet buttons.
The sun descended at an angle of the garden, and the rest was a green light, twilight convent.
The bell tower concealed a piece sky, boasting on its sides red, adorned with daffodils and Gothic buttresses projections, the strips of black marble head of mysterious figures and coats of arms of the various bishops who participated in its construction.
At the top, near the pinnacles pure white stone, showed themselves behind huge bells bars, and bronze birds in iron cages.
Three severe strokes, saying the high mass was at its most solemn moment, echoed throughout the cathedral.
Stone mountain trembled, the vibration transmitted by ships, galleries and arcades to deep foundations.
Then silence again, which seemed more impressive, deep, after the thunder of bronze.
Again he heard the rustle of the birds, and down in the garden, some birds chirping, as enraged by the ray of sunshine revived the greenish gloom.
Gabriel was moved.
He gripped the sweet intoxication of silence and quiet absolute: the happiness of not being.
That wart of seven centuries, formed by political powers who died and dying faith, would be his last refuge.
At the height of disbelief, the church serve as a place of refuge, as the greatest criminals of the Middle Ages, from on high Cloister mocked justice, held at the door like beggars.
There would consummation in the silence and calm the slow ruin of his body.
There would die, with the sweet satisfaction for the world have perished long ago.
Finally performed the desire to end his days in a sleepy corner of the Spanish cathedral, only hope smiled as he walked on foot along the roads of Europe, hiding from the civil guard or the policeman, and spent the night in a pit, matted, his beard in the knees, believing die of cold.
Take the cathedral and grab a rest of the shipwrecked vessel, and a near drowning: it was hope, and just do it.
The church welcomed him as a dour old mother who do not laugh, but open arms. - Finally .... ...-- Finally whispered Luna.
He smiled thinking about that world of persecution and pain that he left as a place remotely located on another planet, he'd never return.
The cathedral in store for you forever.
In the deep silence of the cloister, which did not reach the street noises, the companion Luna thought he heard, far, far away, the shrill sound of bugles, and after a dull roll drums.
Then he remembered the Alcazar of Toledo, which seems to dominate since its height Cathedral, intimacy with the heavy mass of the towers.
These were the bugles of the Academy Military.
A Gabriel harmed these sounds.
Had lost sight of the world, and when it was believed far, far away from him, felt his presence, just beyond the roofs of the temple.
The gardener, to ask the question, smiled with satisfaction, and his eyes looked to the infinite, as if to encompass the vastness of time.
The Moon were as old as the foundations of the church.
Had been born several generations in the chambers of the upper cloister, and when the illustrious Cisneros had not yet built the Claverias, the Moon lived in neighboring houses, as if it could exist outside the Primate shadow.
No one owned the cathedral with a better right than them.
Passed canons, beneficiaries and archbishops, won the seat, died, and another for the post; was a parade of new faces of gentlemen who came from all corners of Spain to sit in the chorus to die years later, leaving the post to other newcomers, and the moon always in place, as if the ancient family was a pillar of the many who hold the temple.
Could it be that one day the archbishop was called Bernardo, was called a year next Don Gaspar and another Don Fernando, it was impossible and implausible that the cathedral could exist without a moon in the garden, in the sacristy or in the crossing, used for centuries for their services.
The gardener spoke with pride of his race: his noble and unfortunate kinsman Constable Don Alvaro buried like a king in the chapel behind the high altar of Pope Benedict XIII proud and stubborn as all of the family of Don Pedro de Luna, V of his name on the chair Archbishop of Toledo, and other relatives no less illustrious. - We are all the same stock - said with pride -.
We all came to the conquest of Toledo with the good King Alfonso VI.
Only took him like a moon to kill Moors, and were lords and conquered castles, and others, my grandparents were in the service of the cathedral, as zealous Christians they were.
With the satisfaction of a Duke who has parents or grandparents, Mr Stephen went back the chain of the Moon to falter and lose in the fifteenth century
