Since, finely released prelate returned with him to Seville, where to August 15 1711, made profession of four votes.
Admitted only a few booklets of devotion, useful to introduce, even people of little or no consciousness, feelings of Christian piety, and to increase the esteem and reverence of Queen of the Angels, who was very devoted.
Made himself sailed to December 27 the same year of 711.
At this time it was recognized as the perpetrators were British, that when they came to our captain, they did show the passport of Queen Anne he had, and they let free ships.
Caminóse then with various fortunes, and P.
Come to Buenos Aires to April 8 next year of 712 and waiting there a few months doctrines craft, spent on them, with four of their conmisioneros, by order of P.
Visitor, Antonio Garriga, to the Missions of the Guarani, not without pain and sense of his novices, who wanted to enjoy him for a longer time and take it a hallmark of Indian Jesuit, to copy itself such mighty and so great virtues that are necessary to who in a strange country and among people as barbaric by nature and vice, should exercise the office of the Apostolic preaching.
What worked then in the service of God and of souls in those reductions can not easily say, but enough can be surmised, that among many, on the other hand most worthy, was chosen by fellow Apostolic P.
Arce for discovering the port of Itatines, where scale is hiciese communication with Missions the Chiquitos, and to observe the will of nations cincunvecinas to the law of Christ, in whose company he died happily.
Truly man of virtue and talent, that much was expected for the exaltation of Faith, God, from heaven ordered things of the earth, just the opposite of what we achieved our short trial, he had not deprived of Paraguay, shortly after he was given and llamádole to receive eternal rest when he was with strength and vigor to work for many years.
He died in 715, do not know the day, but it is believed his death was the last of November, at age 40 and 21 of religion, which had come to 1.
It is time we return to tie the threads of the story, interrupted this long, well than useful digression, and first to give a view to the reduction of San Juan Bautista, then move on to talk at length about the trabajosísimas Missions undertaken in recent years to the glory of God and the good of souls, the Apostolic P.
We said in Chapter XVI how to address the lack of subjects had been extinguished two peoples, and one dedicated to San Juan Bautista, but by this time returned to start another with the same dedication.
