May suppose I was offended when he went to home and want atonement.
You do well.
He poured his fascinating look first, Olympic, for the seats, leaving trembling and subjugated all the marriageable girls that roamed around scattered, then with serene start as the flight of an eagle, Alzola to stage eleven.
Home and teach him some work.
It was only leaving a scented trail sucked it with more pleasure than his sister.
It was a real trouble for them.
He felt strange apprehensions, fainting, hallucinations sometimes true, she had the nervous system perfectly balanced.
In the months following death of the mother, Raymond, taking heart of grace with the idea to protect your sister, had been more resolute and manly.
In time he recovered temperament their rights, fell back into their hobbies childish, as women's impressionability, while she grew up discovering a sound temperament, balanced and straight.
It did not take much work to bring Clementina, fascinate all the young naturalist.
Sometimes going to your hotel boys, others she was going home from the kids or taking them get to the theater or walk, they were most of the day.
Pepe Castro, the first Raimundo night found in the room Osorio understood perfectly what was happening, and filled with despair. - At this very great ...
now gives babies - muttered, grinding his teeth -.
He thought the young and cause head.
Clementina absolutely nothing because you detest.
The scandal would reveal their defeat, the more shameful as the winner a little boy was absolutely unknown.
Determinóse therefore wise not to give his arm to turn to the world and away from his beloved temporarily, allowing her to gratify whim.
Maybe later, tired of tease with that lamb, the lamb again the fold.
Raymond was not supposed child as Castro, as counted twenty-three years old, but had a child and delicate figure did not let him appear more than eighteen.
He suffered frequent attacks, particularly since the death of his mother, they sometimes lose sight, other speech, with another variety of strange phenomena which fortunately lasted a short time.
You saw seized with deep melancholy, crisis violent ending for a hearty and prolonged crying in hysterical women horn.
The view of the chandeliers spasms caused him, the knife of a doctor shuddered.
Apprehension of insanity made him suffer horribly sometimes, other was the fear of suicide against their will.
Never had weapons at hand, and the fear of throwing from the balcony was to close the night locked in his room, delivering the key to his sister, the only witness and confidante of these ravings.
His temperament and effeminate education she had were the cause of them.
Watched over, however, carefully as all Sufferers, who are more than those who think, tried with great effort to refrain comprising a fool that falls on men so constituted.
Anyone will be represented well what would happen to this boy when a woman so beautiful so flirty and as experienced as Clementina was resolved to make his conquest.
First her extreme shyness kept him from realizing the conduct of the lady.
I thought that those greetings affectionate, those smiles were nothing more than the expression of a sudden sympathy with loss had excited her.
Yet, when he befriended them and multiplied signals their inclination, and her sister gave the alarm, he could not imagine that there could be between them other than a close friendship more or less protective and motherly by of it, delivered and fervent for him.
However, the elixir of love that was dropwise Clementina dropping on his lips, came at last to the heart.
When I least expected it found love, dude.
But as they made this discovery he was seized with shame immense, and thought she would never have the courage to propose.
On the one hand the behavior of his idol with him, the constant testimony of sympathy lavished on him, lend themselves to forge illusions.
But it seemed so strange and unlikely that a shy, inexperienced, devoid of attractive could obtain favors worldly lady so rich and so beautiful that instantly abandoned or gently rocking them knowing that they were pure fantasy.
In addition, no could get rid of the pang from time to time in his mind.
Lady resembled her mother, no doubt.
Well, despite these regrets, his invincible shyness and the claims of reason Rayford was increasingly captivated by this woman.
Truth got Clementina play all weapons at its disposal, which were not few or even moldy.
As more shyness of his youth growing up in her adoring daring and aplomb.
In love this happens almost always, but here, given the special circumstances of both, acquired greater importance.
Shyness it became a disease, a strange thing, of which was perfectly ridiculous no account could be overcome by any means.
On the contrary, the more efforts made to acquire poise and disengage front of her best showing the emotion that was upon him.
At first he spoke with some serenity, authorizing a little joke or witty; then this serenity was lost, the jokes stopped.
No one could approach it without disturbed, could not shake hands without a slight tremor.
Clementina could not help but smile at the innocent dawn of love.
It was enjoying full curious, happy feeling even beautiful enough to inspire a child as rendered passion.
Sometimes wickedly amused at atortolarle in putting red, showing lively and outspoken as a cool, others plate appeared to humor melancholy glancing shy as a schoolgirl: Others, finally, treated him with tender familiarity, hearing about his life, his actions and thoughts, as a loving mother or sister.
So it was when Raymond regained a little freedom and daring look at the goddess face face.
Clementina often teased him for his scientific hobbies, went into his office and left scattered on the table or the floor cartons of butterflies.
This, if produce execute someone else in the house a disaster, did laugh at the young naturalist.
Began to whisper among the close of the lady something about these new and extravagant their love, advancing, of course, much more than they actually were.
One night food and triplet Pepa Frias said three or four elegant wild were around arguing his case: - Desengáñense you.
Clementina ends up falling for a Newfoundland dog or a journalist.
When Raymond came in the room with his head of blond cherub and melancholy, with their appearance humble and embarrassed, all eyes rested on him with curiosity.
In general, men over However, we judged ridiculous behavior Osorio's wife, but some ladies looked sympathy to the young man, very nice your air were naive, and understood the whim Clementina.
There were among them who tried to seduce him.
Was already considered our young mistress Clementina officer when he still had not his lips touched the tip of your fingers or dreamed it.
However, love was doing such progress in his chest that he feared one of these days fall on his knees before her as leading men of comedy.
He suffered horribly at the slightest sign of contempt, and enjoyed as an angel when the lady expressed her affection anyway.
Clementina was in no hurry to give lucky lover, but she was determined to do so.
He liked to prolong this situation, noting with secret pleasure the progress of the passion and events offered in the young.
Disgusted ravings of courtiers, was attractive to be adored live that way frenetic and mute, to playing the role of a goddess.
A glance from her was pale or blush that child, a word he was glad or sad to despair.
Raymond went to the Royal every night that it was his turn to Clementina.
Up to the stage to hello, and sometimes, as required by her, there was one or two acts
