Had the book open on his knees, arms earrings, eyes closed.
The recesses of her eyelashes began to ooze some tears, trembling and silent down her cheeks.
It was the sad picture of the vanquished.
Shortly after his delicate body shuddered, contrajéronse the features of his sweet face and peaceful, and shook his breast, sobbing.
His mistress Ms Josefa was shocked upon entering the room and find that way.
If you have parents or siblings, believe that he had killed anyone ...
Dashing Nose to that of D.
These tears from nervous I feel unwell days ago. - If it is what I said!
Those happy books, I would like to see burnt ...
Here Ms Josefa reel off a long Catilinarian, declaring in principle sectarian devotee of Caliph Omar.
The first devils take him the better.
The toilet looked at him timid and anxious.
No one dared to complain of the barbarity feared that gets into your soul and read his sacrilegious doubts.
After passing the church and pick up the oils, entered the ancient palace of Montesinos.
The day was overcast.
The rain fell sadly with a pertinacity which is known only in that region of the peninsula.
He left to open, as always, Ramiro.
It seemed that they had cast in a few days over ten years.
So I saw the priest took him with his trembling hands, wrists and agitated voice exclaimed: - It dies, D.
After I kill me ...
I throw into the sea ...
The old man, not knowing where he withdrew it, clutching at the same time with such force wrists the priest that he found it hard to suppress a cry of pain. - Quiet, Ramiro, quiet!
What is now we tend the sick and see if we can ease. - Walk with me, sir toilet.
There is hope ...
They climbed the stairs worn and dirty principal.
Ramiro was crying and muttering threats.
The old man pushed open the bedroom door of his master, and the priest paused, struck for the spectacle offered to his view.
There was his side that Ms Eloisa and a maid.
It gave him an air fan, which the patient instinctively tried to collect.
Offered and in his countenance any sign of death.
Ms Eloisa, hearing the sound of the door, turned his face bathed in tears, and made a sign the priest to be approaching. - A quarter of an hour that is on the attack - said in a falsetto voice .-- You can stay in he ...
Neither the patient's ideas, not the chaos that prevailed at that time in her head stimulated to do so.
Gil opened as a controller box and set oils to impose the last sacrament on his unhappy friend.
Ms Eloisa and the maid turned, marched to a corner of the room and wept strongly.
The rain beat at the time the leaded glass of the balcony with sad peal.
And dirty curtains, old muslin, hung dim light in the bedroom.
When they were about to end, serenose somewhat patient's chest.
Shortly after he opened his eyes and cast a look of surprise and even fear about the room.
After a moment he opened them, stared at the P.
Gil, went after sight to the oil paintings in his hand, his lips purple with a folded wanted smile. - At last I have anointed you! - Barely audible voice said .-- They have done well ...
But this machine is no longer walk, even the oil that you throw ...
I'm very grateful.
Women rushed to obey the order, greedy especially the sister, the dying man reconciled to God. - Although long since we have not talked about religious matters - "Father Gil sitting at the foot of the bed and tilting her head toward the firstborn, - I presume that their ideas have not changed since the last time we discussed.
However, at this time that his life is in danger, do not you feel the need for a faith that alum in darkness it can be wrapped, in a hope to comfort you in this bitter trance? - No ...
I arrived safely at the end of the horrible comedy ...
Mine has been very sad ... - Truth, D.
As believe it or not there is justice in heaven or he will receive the reward of his pains if he repents in this moment of their sins ...
and also their anti-Christian ideas.
These last words were spoken by Father Gil in a lower voice, as if he felt shame. - Not in heaven or on earth ...
that justice is ridiculous that you assume ...
But there larger ...
I am deeply guilty about being born. - That's horrible, D. Álvaro, and also absurd.
The pains of this world make us believe that this is a traffic ticket and proof that after this life, sad and bitter, no other where our immortal soul eternal finally enjoy pure happiness.
If you've got me even a little sorry ...
do not try to take off This last illusion ...
If you know there is a heaven, Calella ...
Do not disturb you, the more have liked in the world, this blessed peace that I will go ...
thanks for the tears - said the sick smile .-- At the same time dropped hand, transparent like porcelain on the priest and squeezed gently.
There was a long, sad silence.
The dying man, with eyes closed, seemed prepared to sweet sleep he craved.
The room is dark at times strong and at other grew clearer, revealing the thickness the clouds that intercepted the sunlight. - But you feel no horror at all, to annihilate all? - Said at last Fr Gil with some violence as an argument against its own thinking.
A fear is what I have to life ...
Some say it like me ...
Others silent out of shame, as do most of their husbands. - What if God condemn him after this life to eternal torment for having blasphemed both?
The dying man smiled work. - That you have invented the clergy ...
to disturb the peace of this hour ...
But I've bought too dear to part with it ...
There was another long silence.
The sick man closed his eyes.
Apart from some strange agitation fingers, his calm attitude confirmed the meaning of his words.
Seemed to be enjoying voluptuously of insensitivity that gradually penetrated his being, of preludes of nowhere. - And yet - he concluded by saying Fr Gil, a sigh and staring always on the balcony - would not it be infinitely sweeter this time if the entry of a new life, if our souls come down a legion of angels to take her to enjoy God ever, as we Christians believe?
The mayorazgo lifted her eyes a little and made signs of denial to the head.
But after making some effort to join instances, firm voice said: - For life in another world I would be bearable ...
would be forced to transform my completely ...
Let you, Father, to destroy the fundamental mistake of my life ...
There are other makers millions to sustain the burden of life. - But it is horrible to enter a night without limits, forever! - Not so ...
Death is a peaceful sleep ...
He closed his eyes again.
The dying man's hand trembled slightly.
He bowed his head on his chest and also closed his eyes, pressing them with the tips of fingers, as if trying to contain the torrent of thoughts that escaped from his brain.
The wind and rain had ceased.
There was no sound in the room but the distant sound of waves crashing against the rocks.
The blade sharp and penetrating cold skepticism in her womb: a hand tossed mercilessly cruel to tear better.
What that man, maddened by pain, he said it might not be true.
but in the end an attempt.
No security could hold her, because they do not have it in our power to know things.
When after a long time raised his head, the shock he received made him leap in the chair.
Fr Gil took the fan was on the bedside table and hurried get air.
Tried in vain to revive the dying giving incorporate air after opening the balcony, rubbing her feet with a brush doing everything that I suggested at the time his imagination.
It was the last attack of breathlessness.
Occasionally opened his mouth.
But its appearance is was quickly immobilized.
The man transmigrate to the statue, the soul is turned into stone.
He breathed three or four times the air and froze, motionless, eyes and mouth parted.
Ms Eloisa embraced him sobbing and kissing his face covered corpse.
The maid broke screaming as if she was hitting.
Gil's father dropped to his knees and began to read quietly by his breviary.
After a while Ms Eloisa and the maid also knelt at the foot of the bed and prayed.
But it, seeing a tear to hover between the lashes of his brother, he rose quickly and caught it with his handkerchief.
Tear was shed that just died, tear Protest against power ominous creature that has taken them from nothing without asking. - Look, father, how calm, how still breathes his sweet face! - Cried good lady, watching her brother with eyes of pain and tenderness .-- It is well known that has finally been reconciled with God!
The priest dropped the book on the bed and covered her face with her hands.
XII Obdulia told his confessor that he was determined to leave the world and devote himself entirely God in a convent.
He could not give more pleasant news.
Long ago that the preferences submission and to the exaggerated idolatry that she was pleased devout restless Fr Gil.
The event had transpired and much commented and laughed not a little too.
Of course he was mostly lost her, but reflecting also undermined the dignity of the priest.
Not presented in public or at home with their friends, and even tried to go to church at times when no there were people.
But I was even more distressed, with the attitude of his confessor, who embarrassed.
Perhaps because of this, and to win back his will, he went to an evening news to the confessional the determination was made.
Do not hesitate to give their consent.
So exalted devotion, a desire to live as penance and sacrifice more of their degree would find the walls of a convent in the middle of impurities of worldly life.
In fact, had always a little surprised that his penitent had no recollection of the monastic life, as according to their inclinations.
Then the age reached, transposed and early youth, did not fear that their resolution was the daughter of a fleeting desire, of a fleeting romantic exaltation, as usually happens at girls of fifteen to twenty years.
Not only, therefore, expressed its agreement, but encouraged to good words to persist in it and hold it in the shortest time possible.
Was in principle agreed between them that would seek the most suitable.
This was the question of the convent.
In a small village called Astudillo was Castilla Discalced Carmelite convent where she was a cousin of his superior.
It was a retreat fresh, remote, there were only ten or twelve nuns: a little corner of heaven, as I said a chaplain who visited him.
In that insisted on going, and her confessor had not finally forced to obey.
Remained the most serious issue, the permission of his father.
Obdulia introduced since then as very difficult.
Osuna had no daughter to her.
Fr Gil animated it failed to represent you that nothing was going to ask him.
Resolution withdraw from the world was good and merciful to the Church.
For those who do not believe in it, indifferent, there was nothing immoral, dependent on taste or a whole person's vocation.
If a parent consents to a child marries a prosperous career or choose your hobbies, why not to allow another look for your happiness in the silence of a cell?
Above all, nothing was offensive to the authority of the request humbly.
If they refused, they would argue reasons, perhaps became convinced.
His father had been crazy, mad, the mere announcement of what he wanted do.
He would not listen to reason, the rebuked, the reviled and cast out of his room to shove.
First I want her dead, and even kill for her own hand.
Obdulia rushed to dissuade him from this endeavor.
His father had said in an outburst of anger I would consider as an enemy to anyone who would speak of the matter, he does not listen and you throw in your home.
It was necessary to resign at the moment, waiting for more propitious time.
However, the pious Young manifested every day more and more vehement desire to leave the world forever.
Several times since the first attempt, had approached his father, but always in vain and misfortune.
Osuna increasingly opposed high violence.
Since I knew the purpose of his daughter showed with it off, treated with extraordinary hardness, on all occasions, but mostly at lunchtime, making mockery of his devotion and delight in tormenting her with bloody jokes that made him mourn.
And not just with words but with deeds tortured her mercilessly.
Claimed to have black arms tweaks that inflicted as the issue was touched the convent.
Fr Gil was shocked and confused.
I did not know what to do or advise.
Abuse and violence of the scenes with his father all the time had arrived so much so that one day he told his confessor be determined not to suffer them any longer.
If Fr Gil helped her business, would escape the parental home and enter immediately in God.
He was aware that she had good reason to disobey the authority of his father, and if you want to outrun.
But the case was very serious.
Since then tried to dissuade her quiet advising and resignation.
Perhaps with time Osuna convince him God would touch the heart and could done with their consent so craved.
Obdulia would not listen.
Had already suffered too much.
God could not want to obey a father and cruel tyrant that he disobeyed God's laws standing in the way to salvation of a daughter.
With many tears and extreme gestures begged him to succor in this predicament, that would lead to the convent of Astudillo.
The priest flatly denied it.
Again to advise calm and always seek the gentle means of obedience and humility win the consent of his father.
But Obdulia, driven to desperation by the increasing rigor of this, said the end of a bluntly that if, within eight days will not be decided to accompany her to the convent, would escape the house and go alone.
Great confusion hurled these words in the spirit of the young toilet
