Night and the cunning, matching the strength of the enemies would have given encouragement to the sick to march against him.
It was also possible two or more were awaiting him.
Came another yell, but Jaime shrugged again.
I could yell whatever he wanted her unknown challenger ...
Repetíanse howling furiously now, as the crowing of a cock angry.
Jaime believed see the man's neck, swollen, red, with the tendons vibrant with anger.
The guttural shout seemed to take little by little, to repeat, the contours and significance of a language.
It was ironic, mocking, insulting, his prudence taunted the stranger; seemed to call him a coward.
In vain he tried not to listen.
Nublábase his sight, he thought it was no longer the candle light in intervals of silence, the blood roared in his ears.
Can Mallorquí was thought very close, and perhaps Margalida, trembling and clinging to a small window, I heard these cries against the tower, where he was a timid man listening to them too, but locked as if it were deaf.
He threw this time for the book on the table, and then instinctively certainly without knowing what he did, blew the candle flame.
To be in darkness walked few steps with advanced hands, completely forgotten about the attack plans had conceived just before its rapid thought.
Anger upset their ideas.
Blindness sudden spirit had only one idea, like the last flicker of light that goes away.
Playing and the gun with his hands Palpant when catch withdrew.
I needed a weapon less embarrassing, perhaps would have to descend and crawl through the bushes.
Pulled inside the strip, and the gun slipped out of his hole with the smoothness a beast silky and warm.
Groped to the door and opened it slowly, only a small space, the need to stick their head, their rude hinges creaking slightly.
Febrer passing from the darkness of his room to the diffuse stellar brightness of the light, he saw the patch of weeds around the tower, beyond the confused whiteness of the farmhouse, and across the black hump of the mountains cutting a sky full of stars palpitations.
Two small flashes, two wriggle marcáronse fire one after another in the darkness of the bushes, followed by two explosions almost got confused.
Jaime felt a sensation in his nose acre of burnt gunpowder, which may not have been more a phenomenon that imaginative.
At the same time felt on top of his skull a silent and violent shock, something that seemed unusual touch without actually touching, the feeling of rubbing of a stone.
His surprise only lasted a moment.
He had been fired from the bushes, near of the ladder.
The enemy was there ...
He saw in the dark the point where they come the flashes, and moving the right hand outside the door, fired his gun a ...
He threw nearly blind, disoriented by the darkness and confusion of anger.
A slight Noise cut short branches, a faint ripple of the bush, filled him wild joy.
Undoubtedly had reached the enemy, and in your satisfaction, put his hand the head to convince him that he was not wounded.
To pass down his face after he fell from his cheeks and eyebrows and often somewhat pimply.
There was blood: it was dirt, dust and mortar.
His fingers glide over the scalp, still shaken by the deadly touch, stumbled with two holes in the wall, similar to small funnels, which kept a warm feeling.
The two bullets had grazed, going to dig on the wall at a distance from his head almost imperceptibly.
Suddenly the cry was repeated, the howling wilderness, far, far away, almost in the vicinity of the farm: a Auque triumphant, mocking, Jaime interpreted as an announcement of next round.
Can the dog Mallo, excited by the gunfire, barking mournfully.
The howling man went away, with endless repetitions, each time more distant, weaker, sinking into the blue mystery of the night.
III Just broke the day the Chaplain went to the tower.
His father, who had a strong dream, I was not aware perhaps those hour event.
Since the dog was barking and sound with many shots as the farm in a war Pep good when he went to bed tired of your tasks by day, was insensitive as death.
The rest of the house had passed a night of anguish.
The mother, then several attempts to wake her husband without success to get another incoherent words followed by more snoring, had prayed until dawn for the soul of the lord of the tower believing him dead.
Margalida, who slept near her brother had called him softly and distressing to hear the first shots. "Do you hear, Pepet ?...» The poor girl was sitting up in bed, lighting a candle, to light had atlot seen, his face pale and eyes of crazy.
She, so modest and shy, showed agitation in the greatest secrets of their nakedness, forgetting everything, twisting arms, her hands to her head. "Don Jaime had been killed: it heralded the heart." And trembled with the distant echo of new shots. "A true string of shots", he said the Chaplain, had answered the first two explosions. - Those were from you, eh, Don Jaime? - Continued the boy -.
The moment I met and I told Margalida.
I remember later that you fired the gun at the beach.
I have a good ear for these things.
Then was the despair of his sister, looking for clothes in silence, wanting to dress Running to the tower.
Pepet accompany her.
But then, suddenly sheepish, he did not want go.
He knew only mourn, and opposed the boy fulfill his purpose to escape by the wall of the corral.
They had heard the Auque next to the farmhouse, long after the shooting, and talking about this cry, the boy smiled with malicious air.
Then, Margalida, suddenly reassured by the words of his brother, was silent, remaining motionless on the bed, but throughout Chaplain night heard sighs of anguish and a slight murmur, as if under her veil a softly muttered words and words with relentless monotony.
When he looked out onto the porch women, dominated by the most gloomy thoughts, expected to witness a horrific picture: the tower destroyed and its ruins hanging over the body of the Lord.
But the Chaplain had laughed when he saw the door open, and next to it, as on other mornings, Don Jaime, bare-breasted, splashing in a bucket that he brought from the coast filled with seawater.
No he was wrong to laugh at the terrors of women. "In Don Jaime, who had not kill him.
And this he said, he understood men. " Then, after the short story that made him the lord of all that had happened at night, examined squinting with intelligent expression, both with bullet holes open on the wall. - And you had your head here, where do I have? ...
Febrer questioned the boy about the alleged offender, trusting in their knowledge of the people the country, and the Chaplain smiled with an air of someone important.
It was the same way he had the sang Aucar: many had imagined it was him.
The it howled in the serenades, dancing evenings in and out of the processions. - But is not it, Don Jaime: I'm sure.
But it was the other, Ferrer, I knew the voice, and Margalida believe the same.
The sneer and shrug with which he returned to answer Febrer boy they look happy. - That's what I figured I: it is not used on the island.
And with that pavoneábase, outlining in his person all the powerful aid that could Jaime count in times of danger.
The Chaplain wanted to take advantage of this event, advising Mr.
If he were to ask the fate Pep, he could not deny that favor.
Don Jaime suited him to have him at his side would always be two for defense.
And support the urgency of the request, but remember the anger of Pep, and the certainty that it would take him to Ibiza in early next week to shut him up in the seminar.
The Chaplain, who tasted success proud of this advice, gave a start to look by the doorway. - The stop! ...
Pep up the hill slowly, arms back and look pensive.
The boy was alarmed to see him.
Undoubtedly came from the recent news moody: not convenient meet him.
And repeating again Febrer convenience that kept him as partner, took the legs out the window, put his belly on the windowsill, and slipped by the wall.
The peasant, upon entering the tower, spoke without emotion of the event last night like a normal fact that only slightly alter the monotony of camp life.
Then he went to door to see the traces of the projectiles. - A miracle, Don Jaime, a true miracle.
He returned to his chair, long time standing still as if it cost him a great inner effort operating their slow thoughts. - The devil is at liberty, sir ...
When you want impossible things, everything gets tangled and just peace.
Then, raising his head, fixed his eyes cold and piercing on Don Jaime.
Should be notified the mayor, should say all this to the Civil Guard.
Febrer shook his head.
No, it was a matter for men, which was airing himself.
Pep was staring at the man, in a puzzling, as if in thought struggles found ideas. - You do well - said after a while the phlegmatic peasant.
Then, Pep, without consulting the Lord, set out its purpose of assisting in his defense.
I had not used it, but in his youth, when he lived his famous father (holy glory that is), had been a regular shooter.
Would to spend nights in the tower, next to Don Jaime, that he did not live alone, exposed a surprise during sleep.
Everyone in your house, and could come As luck would.
Pep also agreed with nods to those words.
The same thing his father said, and like him all the good people who followed the old ways.
Febrer a child seemed true of the island ...
Then, softened by the admiration he felt for Don energy Jaime, proposed another arrangement.
Since the man did not want company in its tower, could lower Can sleeping in Mallorquí.
Febrer felt himself tempted by the proposition.
But the tone of looseness with invited the father and the restless gesture that awaited her answer did give up.
No, thank you very much, Pep remained in the tower.
Could believe that changing housing impulses fear.
The peasant shook his head again with signs of assent.
Understand this attitude, the same he would do in your situation.
But this was no obstacle to Pep slept less at night, and if he heard shouts and shots near the tower come out to the field with his old shotgun.
And as if that requirement was imposed to sleep anxiously, ready to expose the skin defense of his former master, broke the calm that had remained until then, the peasant raised his eyes and clasped his hands: - Oh, Sinor!
Febrer tried to pacify the peasant, and let out a thought I wanted to keep hidden.
The joy of the farmer was so big and so alive his surprise that Jaime was undecided.
Before I have to live here, I find that I seek.
Pep was a gesture of resignation: his joy vanished, but also came close to nodding these words, adding that the same would have made his father and so he thought.
When the peasant got up to leave, Febrer, who was standing at the door, distinguished farmhouse near the Chaplain, and this brought to mind the desire of the boy.
If Pep not bothered by his request, could leave the atlot to accompany him in the tower.
But the father welcomed his request harshly.
No, Don Jaime.
If needed company, there was he was a man.
The boy studied.
The devil was loose, and time was already impose his authority and that the family did not follow disarray.
In the next week meant to take the seminar.
It was his last word.
Febrer, when he was alone, went down to the sea.
Guster Uncle repaired with tar and oakum the joints of his boat, fantastic dry.
Lying there like a huge coffin, looking with their weak eyes the interstices, and to find one who lacks buoyancy, joy made him burst loudly sung in Latin word made.
Noting that the boat was moving and leaning on the railing to see the gentleman, the old man had a smile malicious, and disrupted their chants. - Hi, Don Chaume! ...
Can women Mallo had told the story, and those hours circulated through the paddock, but from ear to ear, the way to talk about these things, but people become aware of justice, which only serve to entangle it. "So you had searched the night before, aucándolo to come out of the tower? ...
he, too, at other times, when he made love to her dead between two trips, he had aucado a comrade who was his opponent.
But he took the girl for having a hand smarter; total, a knife to his friend in the chest, which had plenty of time between life and death.
Then he lived on guard always coming down to earth to rid revenge of their enemy, but the years pass, all is forgotten, and the two friends ended for smuggling together, sailing from Algiers to Ibiza and the coasts of Spain.
Guster uncle laughed with childish laughter, pleased with these memories resurface youth in his memory if he heard of shots, stab wounds and provocations in the night.
Febrer left him singing the Mass as he finished fairing.
In the tower found Shopping of their food on the table.
The Chaplain had left without waiting, without doubt obeying some urgent call from his father angrily.
After lunch back to watch Jaime the two shells had holes in the wall.
Felt the need to provoke, to be arrogant, appear calm and threatening to the men, including his enemies were hiding.
He picked up the gun, examined their loads, threw it over his shoulder and fell from the tower, taking the same way the previous evening.
Passing Can Mallorquí, the barking dog output to the door and her mother Margalida.
The men were in a distant field Pep cultivated.
Should be very careful, leaving little of the tower, be on guard against enemies.
Y Margalida, silent, with eyes wide open, looked at Febrer, revealing admiration and anxiety.
Do not know what to say, his soul seemed simple humbly collected, no finding words to express their thoughts.
Jaime continued his journey.
Turning Margalida repeatedly saw, standing on the porch, following along with visible anxiety.
took the mountain path, went towards the pine forest, one of whose bald was the smithy.
Along the way she pondered Febrer attack plans.
The blacksmith had gone, the old black dress was not there to receive angry with hostile glare his eye.
He sat down under a tree as before, with his gun ready, sheltering behind the trunk, if this loneliness hid a snare.
It was a long time, the pigeons Wild, inflamed by the quiet and solitude of the forge, fluttered in the square without looking at the hunter, stationary and forgotten about them.
A cat moved slowly through the dilapidated roof with tiger stretches, trying to catch the restless sparrows.
More time passed.
The blacksmith was perhaps at home.
She would see him locked up arrive, and it was useless to expect.
It could also be that he had gone away with the old and not return until late at night.
And with the gun in hand, to be the first to shoot if the enemy was, undertook return to the valley.
Again, again found in the way peasants and girls looked at him curiously tenacious, just replying to his greeting.
Saw again sang with his head bandaged, in the same site, surrounded by friends, who spoke with violent gesticulations.
Recognizing the lord of the tower, before their comrades could hold him, stooped down, and grabbing two grooves in the hardened stone and flung him against it.
The rustic missiles, driven a weak arm, failed to make half of its path.
Jaime smiled sadly to these threats.
Mr passed quietly the first part of the night.
After dinner, when it was Margalida brother with the sad knowledge that his father not about to take the Seminar James closed the door, putting behind her the table and chairs.
He had his gun nearby and the revolver belt, ready to use them at the slightest movement of the door.
Accustomed to her ear the sounds of the night and breathing the sea, looking through them at a touch, a indication that solitude had other human beings apart from it.
He spent a long time.
In light of the cigar looked at his watch.
His head had ended up falling on the pillow, her eyes closed, he heard cries of challenge, shooting, cursing, but this was an abnormal state, as if I lived in another world, where the insults and attacks not wake up sensitivity
