After the first embrace, threw his head back and contemplate, not discard it.
He wore his beard, a black beard and curly.
Don Marcelo was agreed his stepfather.
The centaur Madariaga undoubtedly recognize this hardened warrior for life outdoors.
His voice trembling with tenderness.
He spoke to the toast and strong fighter with the same intonation I used twenty years earlier, when he stopped at the windows of Buenos Aires wearing to a child's hand. - You want money? ...
But the military made a gesture indifference, as if it offered a toy.
Never been as rich as when present.
I had a lot of money in Paris and did not know what to do about it: anything served. - Send me cigarettes ...
They are for me and the Comrades.
Received large packages full of food his mother elect from snuff, clothes.
But he kept nothing, everything was little to attend to their partners, children from poor families or they were alone in the world.
His bounty had spread from his group to the company and from there to the whole battalion.
Don Marcelo guessed popularity in looks nice and smiles of the soldiers who passed by them.
Was the generous son of a millionaire.
And this popularity also patted unto him to circulate the news that had come the father of Sergeant Desnoyers, a tycoon who possessed fabulous wealth on the other side of the sea. - I guess your wishes - continued the old man.
And looked around the bags brought from the car along the winding road underground.
All praised his son's exploits and amplified by Argensola now for your parade memory.
July spoke without boasting, modestly.
His life was hard, but equal to that of millions of men.
In his section, which only consisted of some dozens of soldiers, he was superior to for intelligence, for his studies, by their nature.
And all cheerfully circumvented the ordeal, experiencing the satisfaction of accomplishment.
In addition, the common danger in served to develop the noblest virtues of men.
Those who are alive can do great things.
For the first time savoring the enjoyment to be considered useful, the conviction that was used to something, that his way in the world would not be fruitless.
He remembered Desnoyers with pity that he did not know how to fill the emptiness of their existence and stuffing with all sorts of frivolities.
Now had obligations absorbed all his forces collaborated in shaping the future, was a man. - I'm happy - he repeated.
But in a corner of his eye open imagined seeing something painful, a reminder perhaps the last that remained between the emotions of this.
Crossed his memory gentle figure of Mrs.
She guessed that her son still remember her. "We are not allowed !...» fetch The rigid father last year was watched with amazement as mentally formulate this desire immoral.
They spent a quarter of an hour without letting go of hands, gazing into the eyes.
July asked his mother and Chichi.
Received letters from them often, but this was not enough to his curiosity.
River to meet the wide and abundant life Argensola.
This news came that he was glad a world that was only a hundred miles in a straight line, but so far ...
Suddenly the father noticed that he listened with less attention.
His senses, sharpened by a life Alarms and traps, they seemed to depart from there, attracted by the shooting.
Appeared the senator, who had strayed to the father and son speak more freely. - We kicked out of here, my friend.
We do not have luck on our visits.
And no soldiers passed.
All had come to take their places, as in a ship prepared to fight.
Julio took his gun, he had left against the slope.
At the same moment jumped a little dust over the head of his father formed a small hole in the ground. - Soon, far away - pushing said Don Marcelo.
Inside a trench cover was the bounce, short, nervous, "Bye, Dad." A kiss, and turned his back.
Wanted to run as soon as next to yours.
The fire had spread throughout the line.
The soldiers fired calmly, as if they meet an ordinary function.
It was a battle that came every day, not knowing certainly who had initiated, as a consequence of the location of two armed masses to short distance, face to face.
The battalion commander to his visitors left fearing a coup attempt attack.
Again the officer lead them himself at the head of the line and began to retrace tortuous, slippery path.
Before his eyes fluttered July look, his beard black and curly, it was for him most novelty of the trip.
She heard his deep voice of a man who has found a new meaning to life. - I'm happy, Dad ...
The shooting, more and more distant, gave him a painful concern.
He saw his son beautiful and immortal as a god.
He had a that their lives would all hazards untouched.
As I walked away from him, the hope seemed to sing in your ear.
And like an echo its pleasing statements, the father repeated mentally: - No one kills him.
I announced by the heart, which never deceives me ...
Julio was injured.
But at the same time he received the news with an unfortunate delay, Lacour reassured him with their inquiries at the Ministry of War.
The sergeant was lieutenant Desnoyers, his wound was almost healed, thanks to the efforts of the Senator would come to spend a fortnight nursing home next to his family. - A brave, my friend - ended by saying the character -.
I read what they say about him his heads.
Leading his platoon attacked a German company, killed by his hand to the captain made I do not know how many feats ...
And the father, weeping with emotion, shaking his head shakily, increasingly aged and more enthusiastic.
He regretted his lack of faith in the early stages, when the news the wound.
In July there was none kill him: she said her heart.
Saw him come home one day, shouting and spasms of women.
Poor Dona Luisa cried hugging him, clinging to his neck with gasps of excitement.
Chichi looked at him serious and reflective, placing half of his thinking on the newcomer, while the rest flying away in search of another fighter.
The maids were played the opening coppery a curtain, through this hole their prying eyes of antelope.
The father admired the small piece of gold in the cuffs of gray skirts capotón fastened behind, looking after the dark blue hull edge planes taken by French to trench warfare.
A graceful cap, similar to the musketeers of Spanish troops, shading the face of July.
Also noticed in his beard short and well kept, other than that he had seen in the trenches.
He was clean and neat for his recent discharge. - Is not it true that I think? - Said the old man proudly.
Doña Luisa protested, with mothers showing intransigence on similarities. - It has always been your spitting image.
To see him healthy and happy, the family experienced a sudden restlessness.
Wished to examine your wound to believe that there was no danger. - If there is nothing! - Protested the sergeant -.
A shot in the shoulder.
Doctors feared who lost his left arm, but everything has been well ...
No need to remember.
Chichi revised to July with eyes, from head to foot, discovering the details immediately of military chic.
The coat was shaved, dirty, scratched leggings, smelling cloth sweat, leather, strong to snuff, but in a doll wearing a platinum watch and the other subject identity medal with a gold chain.
I had always admired his brother for innate good taste, and put it in his memory of these details to communicate in writing to René.
Then he thought of the convenience to surprise mom with a demand loan for do yourself a post to the gunner.
Don Marcelo looked at him fifteen day satisfaction and glory.
The lieutenant Desnoyers could not go out alone into the street.
The father was around for the reception to the helmet that was exhibited on the rack with a modest splendor and glory.
He said it with such humility, with such vehement desire to see accepted the plea, that the child dared not repel his accompaniment.
Desnoyers had never gone so pleased with the streets of Paris as the side This strapping young man with his cloak of glorious old age and chest enhanced by two awards: the Croix de Guerre and the Military Medal.
He was a hero and this hero was his son.
Looks sympathetic to the public on the trams and the Underground Railroad accepted them as a tribute to both.
Interesting glimpses of the women threw the good waiter produced a tickling vanity and anxiety.
All military was, for more gallons and cross-bearing, seemed "ambushed" unworthy to be compared with July.
They had the fate of his son.
A does not who had killed him, and when by chance he received a wound, his remains were erased immediately, without detriment to the grace of his person.
Walking through the bedroom before bed, he imagined the hero in the pleasant company a great lady.
Only a female celebrity was worthy of him, his paternal pride not accept less ...
And it never could happen Argensola Julio was with a music-hall, in a cinema, enjoying the simple pleasures of the monotonous and overshadowed by Paris war, with the simplicity of taste of a second lieutenant, and that in point of loving his success good fortune did not extend beyond the renewal of some old friendships.
One afternoon, when he walked beside her down the Champs Elysees, shuddered when she saw a lady coming in the opposite direction.
Was surprised Marguerite still behind them, with the pallor of surprise, staring deep in the military going away.
Don Marcelo felt read in his eyes the admiration, love, everything past suddenly resurfaced in his memory.
Lacour his friend had returned to talk of marriage Laurier.
Margarita knew was going to be a mother.
And the old, regardless of reconciliation of the spouses or the passage of time, he was excited about this motherhood, as if his son had taken part in it.
Meanwhile, Julio was going, without turning his head, unaware of this look fixed on the back, pale and humming to conceal his emotion.
Continued believe that Margaret had passed by him without knowing, for the old silent.
One of the concerns of Don Marcelo was to ensure that your child tells of the meeting war who had been wounded.
No visitor came to his house to see the sergeant, without leave the old man making the same request: - Tell us how you hurt ...
Explain how you killed the German captain.
July apologized with visible discomfort.
I was tired of their own history.
To please his father had done the story before the Senate, to Argensola and Tchernoff in their study, to other family friends who had come to see him ...
And the father was rushing the story on their own, giving relief and details of an event seen with his own eyes.
Had to take over the ruins of a sugar refinery in front of the trench.
The Germans had been expelled by the French cannonade.
Recognition was needed, guided by an insurance man.
And the chiefs were appointed, as always, Sergeant Desnoyers.
At daybreak, the platoon had advanced cautiously, without hindrance.
July was only until the end of them, for the purpose of examining the positions of the enemy, when, turning to an angle of wall, was the most unexpected encounters.
A German captain was facing him.
They looked into the eyes, with more surprise than hatred, while seeking kill by instinct, trying to win each other in speed.
The captain had released the letter of the country in his hands.
His right hand sought his revolver, struggling out of the case, without for a moment his eyes of the enemy.
Then gave up, convinced that this movement was useless.
Her eyes, wide open for the proximity of death, followed in the French fixed.
and the German fell round.
Only then looked at the captain's orderly, who was walking a few steps behind him.
The soldier fired his rifle against Desnoyers, wounding him in the shoulder.
Then crossed a live enemy fire with the company, which had beyond high as his head was exploring the terrain.
July, in spite of the wound, continued in front of his section, defending the plant against superior forces until finally aid arrived and the ground was definitely in the hands of the French. - Was it not so, my son? - Ended Don Marcelo.
The son nodded, wishing I had done a story as soon as possible annoyed by their persistence.
But what his father knew what he would not say never, was the discovery I had done after killing the captain.
The two men, looking face to face for a second that seemed an age, showed in their eyes more than the surprise of the meeting and wish to be deleted.
Desnoyers known to man.
But each of them, with the desire to kill to stay alive, could not muster memories.
Desnoyers fired with the certainty that he killed an acquaintance.
Then, as directed the defense of the position awaiting the arrival of reinforcements, he hit the suspect that that enemy whose body was at a short distance could be a member of his family, one of the Hartrott.
It seemed, however, older than his cousins ??and his much younger than Uncle Karl.
This, with his years, was not going to appear as a mere captain of infantry.
When, weakened by blood loss, could be driven to the trenches, the sergeant wanted to see the body of your enemy.
His doubts continued pales before the face of death.
The eyes are open, seemed to keep even the impression of surprise.
This man knew him undoubtedly, he also knew that face.
Mentally apologized, as if in the presence of the sweet Bertha.
He had to kill to avoid being killed.
He tried to console ourselves that such Erckmann had fallen without identifying time, not knowing that his killer was a fellow traveler of months before ...
And kept secret in the depths of his memory this meeting prepared by the fatality.
Failed to inform his friend Argensola, who knew the incidents Atlantic crossing.
The sergeant left, and the whole family, after this period of realities, had to return to the caresses deceptive illusion and hope, waiting for the arrival of letters, making guesses about the silence of the absent, sending package after package with all that the trade offered to the military: useful things and absurd
