Son, it must be something in life: one believes that a poor, women, nine children, two and three sisters-in-law, two mothers in law, yes sir, mother and grandmother of my wife and if one does not contrive to keep this FAMILION ...
The truth is that everyone di cordelejo: D.
Mauro, the fool of John of God, and yourself, now resurrected to ask me to Agnes. "But you love her?
Anda, zanguango, cortéjala, to see if you can marry her, which, although difficult, not impossible ..., the girl will have a regular feat, and you could inherit primogeniture and the title, which will, according to the tenor of the scriptures ...
I lent sustained attention to these and many other reasons the lawyer Lobo, which, for that nothing was missing in his inexplicable kindness and courtesy, at the time said to me goodbye that perhaps could give me some lessons in Latin, if I was in the mood, as it was so great humanist, to earn his bread by teaching.
No, I hope not so we part untimely, and when it appears likely that, following me, you attended a show that make them more bearable annoyance of my personal stories.
de Santorcaz, who lead the country Andalusian family matters.
I told him that wanted to take me as a squire, but he said he had no money to pay my services, because their stock was not available to meet expenses of servitude and would welcome take sick as a companion and friend.
That was, in effect, and as I needed a few days of recovery, he waited for me, and one of the last days May or early June, after I left my obsequious guards, accounting as I could, and John of God, who hid the object of my expedition, we set off.
VI As Santorcaz was poor, and I still poorer, our trip was so irregular, which that we described in old novels.
We do not take any classes systematically in uncomfortable vehicles known in our Spain, on several occasions walked in galley male others, if they offered us their horses the carriers who become the Stain vacuum, and more often on foot.
We did night in inns and hostelries of the road where Santorcaz wearing his prodigious skill at not spending, always managing to serve him well.
To these and other mischief, my friend posing as a famous character, sending me that Excellence and call him before I discovered him whenever we looked at the innkeeper.
I met promptly and with such artifice, more than once, in addition to not paying anything, leaving to say goodbye humbly begging dispense them bad service.
Beyond Noble and Villarrubia de Santiago, and when after a long day sesteábamos, sections of the road, next to the chapel of the Holy Child, we added a waiter told us bore the same way that we and since then was our constant companion.
Was about twenty years, was called Andresillo Marijuán, and although a native of Aragon, was to serve muleteer a town of Andalusia, home of the Countess of Rumble, his mistress and lady, since it owned farms in the land of Almunia de Doña Godina was born the young man.
Santorcaz treated us superior, but without tyranny.
When arriving at an inn riding him in evil male and we walk, we were going to hold the stirrup and then remove spurs, bursting into compliments and courtesies, we had to grit their teeth for not release the laughter.
Marijuán, what better than to pretend I knew, was in charge of directing the landlord to give him the best master of the pantry, because His Excellency, who was Regent Seville, was a man fiercely punished terrible and the innkeepers that served him well.
So we crossed the Channel, sad and lonely country, where the sun is in his kingdom and man seems to work exclusively from sun and dust; country among all known since the world hase used to assume the immensity of the plains traversed by the horse D.
The greatness of the thought of D.
Quixote not only understand the greatness of La Mancha.
In a mountainous country, cool, green town of welcome shade, with beautiful homes, flower gardens, warm light and thick atmosphere, D.
Quixote could not have existed and would have died in bloom, after the first ride, no surprise the world with the great deeds of the latter.
Don Quijote needed that horizon, that land without roads, which, however, all of it is the way, that land without directions, because of it goes anywhere, without going determinedly any, land crossed by the paths of chance, adventure, and where everything pareer must pass charges of chance or of the geniuses of the fable that needed sun melts the brain and makes the sane crazy, that endless field where stands imaginary battles powder, producing the transparency of light, visions of armies of giants, towers, castles, cities need this shortage that makes it rare and the presence of an extraordinary man or an animal need silence when There are quiet, and this prodigious roar when storm winds; quiet and noise are equally saddened and extend their sadness to everything that happens, so if you are a human being in the wilderness, to the point he is a creep, a distressed a beggar, a grievant who is looking for protection against the oppressors and tyrants; needed, again, this total absence of human works representing positivism practical sense, limits to the imagination, which would stop its senseless flight needed, in short, that man does not put more samples in those fields of industry and his science that patriarchal windmills, to which only the missing language to be colossal, restless and furious, which from a distance call and scare the traveler threatening gestures.
VII This is the English Channel.
While crossing could not help remembering D.
During our days we were bored enough, except when Santorcaz We had some extraordinary event that was witnessed in distant lands.
A Once we left with an open mouth telling the feast of the coronation of Bonaparte, with all their hair and signs, and again we put the hair on end talking the most famous battle of the many that had been found.
When we had men in two males who provided little money for some carriers of Villarta, and I'm not sure if we pierced and the term of Puerto Lápiche or were going into it.
I do remember is that to escape the heat we started our journey long before sunrise, and night was hazy, the sky overcast and gloomy, damp earth the strong storm water to unload the previous day.
I should point out the landscape before us, because unless the picturesque relationship Santorcaz, it helped to impress my senses.
The road was straight to us left elevábanse a gently rolling hills which were lost in the dilated forming horizon bends at the bottom and far away you could see a hill higher on the skirt of which seemed to distinguish the houses of a village on the right soil lay completely flat, and the immense power crust and takes a stream and rainwater were many small pools, the surfaces, illuminated by the moon, offered for the misleading perspective view of a large swamp or marsh.
I have spoken of the moon, and I must add that this star, disfiguring of the things of earth, paid imposing solemnity bare and lonely landscape, leaving a dark clarified alternatively, depending on whether or not gave way to his pale rays the gaps, tears and acribilladuras clouds.
Santorcaz, after a moment of silence and meditation, held his horse, he stood in the middle the road, and gazing with a rapture the distant horizon, the hills on the left and puddles on the right, spoke thus: - I'm amazed, because I've never seen two things that seem so much like this country to another far away where I was three years ago at this same time, in the early hours of 2 December.
And those towers distinguish the other side of the hill, are not those of the castle of Austerlitz?
Marijuán and I laughed, saying that he put off such things, and if well as the pools were true, there was no castle Terlin or anything.
Then he placed the horse to step and sending us to follow him on either side, went on as follows: - Guys, I can not forget that famous day, we call the Three Emperors, and that is certainly the bloodiest, the most glorious, most business with which he illustrated his name the great tyrant, godlike man, whom I can now appoint a mouthful, because we do not hear more than heaven and earth.
Let me tell you guys, that ye may know what is the hatchet in the hands of the woodcutter in Europe.
I was in Paris without resources, after being on Latin teacher, a painter of signs, Ventadour showgirl, Swordsman, server émigré Coblentz, postilion prosecuted, saithe and typesetter printing, when enlisted in the army of Boulogne, intended to give a coup de main against England ...
When the Emperor moved us suddenly, without revealing his thoughts, the heart of Europe, were somewhat piqued because the violent marches mortified us much, and as we were dunces, we did not understand the plans of our boss.
But After the capitulation of Ulm, we thought we were the first soldiers of the world, and speaking the Prussians and the Russians, we laughed at them, tried until unworthy of our bullets.
When we passed the Inn, as they prepared to boast about great things to boarding in Moravia, after the action of Hollabrunn, we realized that the Russian-Austrian army We would submit formal battle.
What was not restricted to our heads was the reason if we would take the offensive or defensive operators.
But the big head, one that has a lock on the front and the beam between the eyes, it would decide soon.
At this point came, when we marched twisted road to the right, describing a great lap, so that was a right angle to its original direction.
Santorcaz again amazed at what seemed to him extraordinary coincidence, continued: - But this is not the way Olmutz?
Gabriel, or is this very thing, or it looks like one drop to another drop.
Look, now we face the swamp to our left Satzchan Pratz Hill.
They want to cut off the road to Vienna, to which will come down the hill and placed among Pratz our right and wetlands.
That is exactly what we want the Emperor, and everything has to make it appear that we retired to Vienna.
But you will want to know how it was we beat the Russians and Austrians, and I'm going to refer.
At dawn, oh, boys!, The Russians down mechanically by that high hill opposite, in order to come to our right to cut off the road.
Do not forget that here before we have a meandering stream that comes from left to right until it was lost in the marshes.
The center, commanded by Soult and Lannes left, eager to enter into fire, but the Emperor containing the ardor of those generals, to await the Russians had just committed folly to go down from the heights of Pratz to get into the mother Golbasch Brook.
There, in the distance and at the foot of the hill, are the villages of Telnitz and Sokolnitz ... - If there is not such villages, sir - interrupted Marijuán, unruly to the mystification. - Fool, will you shut up? - Continued Freemason -.
I know what I am saying, is that all Napoleon's desire, after he saw off the Russians, was to take those villages After seizing the ridge in front of us.
Move towards the stream, you see?, we went through here in a hurry. "If there are no such stream - Marijuán said, laughing -.
You if you have a head full of streams and villages, and right and left. - We arrived at the village of Telnitz and there began the attack - continued unabashedly Santorcaz -.
Look to front, because from here it is quite different from the position which respectively had: them over, we below ...
At first we were riddled; but Soult sent us up at all costs, and up defying the rain of bullets.
