I do not regret gratitude, but I want to finish build our affection, that you owe me something.
Journeyed to Valladolid husband and wife, durándoles long time the bitterness of not getting the little boy with his brothers, but four months was somewhat consoled, because Dona Manuela again declared that he was on tape.
The change of scenery should take the blame.
Before the year, Jose was the father of another creature.
Apart weird way to have to trust a child to foreign hands, and excluding fertility Manuela, the existence of Don Jose was not such as to weave with it a novel.
In many cities was, the work consumed his days and nights the coffee and the leisure reading newspapers, who was very fond, preferring to progressives: the house, perhaps never considered not certain, always had little or no attachment.
Each transfer was auction, and thus could refer to when old than in many or few years of service had stayed in forty-two beds, past and obeyed by twenty offices in more than thirty heads, none of whom he could complain.
Don José was born to an employee, his low intelligence not allowed the luxury of having his own ideas, and it lacked character and initiative exposure to be a martyr for getting to reform routines.
Their impressions, usually little intense, also kept him away from the excitement and apathy: its great virtue was to love honored to work with that tenacity of the middle reaches the enviable record name.
To speak against the tiger Maestrazgo, to Don Luis Fernandez de Cordova on top of Zumalacárregui and the Espartero clouds, he encouraged his eyes, his tongue gained strength, color words, and did wonders with the memory.
He knew few details of battles, fighting, games and both armies were marching from the first attempts of Don Carlos María Isidro to the embrace of Vergara, so that, for the months when the action begins this story followed with great interest the second significant rise of the absolutist, who always called rebels, because the word seemed to wrap something offensive.
As never left home, his main desire was to buy her newspaper supplements, flyers or extraordinary which at the year 1872 were published in prodigious numbers, and few friends went to see him knew their favorite conversation was the course of the war, news of which he commented with memories of the campaign from 33 to 40, and military movements then, now, by way of his, to be repeated.
But what really impressed listening to was that when dealing with priests who sent items, spoke of them as the other leaders, Full disregarding his priestly character, but despite his hatred Carlism exploited the occasion to condemn the conduct of the clergy who did this.
Were just judge them as military commanders greater or lesser importance, but not daring to download its outrage on them because as ministers of peace, leave the field to kill fellow men.
Sometimes phrases that eluded him, implied that the clergy did not want it, but never out of his mouth insults and aggressive phrases, and if someone said them in his presence, not only abstained from him chorus, but seeking to twist the spin conversation.
People of their privacy, knowing that this was the foundation were Fates of adjectives hard to talk about bad priests, and not spare time instead of compliment to any chaplain who was distinguished by good thing, but with this we Don Jose does not say in a clear its views on the people of the cloth.
Respect a moral, was what the vulgar call a saint.
His fidelity to Manuela, even the time of his youth, bordered on the unbelievable, and the children fell out of pure good.
A his greatest pleasures was that Leocadia you read the newspapers, whose news commented war, as if to himself, while he rolled the cigarettes he had to smoking the next day.
At the moment unfolded treasures of erudition, referring many Olózaga anecdotes, O'Donnell, Gonzalez Brabo, Sixto House, Asensio Calvo and Fernandez Rivers.
Another of his favorite subjects of conversation was to explain the cause of the grudge I had the Bourbons, continually citing as one of the books you most enthusiastic, a booklet published after the Revolution of 68, in whose pages contained statistics of victims that cost Spain dynasty since Philip V came to reign.
Many Sometimes she said: "What language the numbers!
Since 1672, when Charles II was still alive until 1868, the year that there were more executed for political crimes was 66. " In 1872 Don José was revolutionary and hardened, and his idol Don Juan Prim "If he were alive - repeated often - we would not have civil war! " When he was sprawled on the couch, called Correspondence. - Let old papers now, Dad, Pepe and Miller bring news. - Well, my dear, good, but at least read the parts taken from the Gazette, but that does not say ever the truth.
Leocadia picked up the paper and, approaching the light, read as follows: "MINISTRY OF THE WAR .-- Extract from telegraphic received in this Ministry up early today: »Catalonia .-- The Brigadier said yesterday plowing action with all the factions together Gerona province, which broke, causing many casualties.
Lieutenant Colonel Pina attacked his column to the factions gathered from Cosco, Torres, Baltondra, Ferrer and Moline, that, in number 400 men, were in demand Olsana contribution.
The enemy left the village, leaving the troops held 13 prisoners, including the aforementioned Moline and other officers, causing 11 deaths, appearing in this issue the leader Cosco, and seizing plus 24 rifles and other weapons scratched and effects of war. "Basque Provinces .-- Pursued by the column heading to latro Arana-rebels commanded ... * * * * * (Don Jose, interrupting ):--¡ That's it! "Latro, latro-fascists!
In the province of Vizcaya, the latest news, there are no more than scattered Maidagan heading.
In the rest of the peninsula no new extraordinary happens. " * * * * * Suddenly sounded on the door of the house two knocks. - There's your brother down, daughter, down.
Leocadia took the key off the dresser, and left without rushing.
They heard little in the step footsteps drowned out by laughter and Leocadia entered with two men in the room young, but of a different type.
Pepe was the man that his sister Leocadia a woman, a Madrid purebred, pale, intelligent eyes, medium height, easy word and movement fast: the other was his friend Miller, who made love to Leocadia.
Pepe gentleman dressed like poor: Millán as being clean worker who takes time to groom him.
The first closer to his father, kissed him as a child could do, and the second, before greeting, glanced at the door of the hall where he had gone again with Leocadia two or three packages that brought his brother. - You see, Dad? - Pepe said .-- When I come alone, take that half hour of opening, today, as I knew it came with me has to jump down the ladder.
The trouble is that the Baztán have into two heads with a hundred men, and linked to another item, about Estella, walk and in the vicinity of Pamplona. - The Gazette says nothing, at least not copy Correspondence. - But the government knows it, and the Ministry of War do not talk about something else.
Brother a home typesetter is a clerk in the Directorate of Infantry, where he heard it. - And for the Mastership, is there nothing? - Still ... - As there are iron hand, we are lost. - That does not, the war may last as long as another, but Madrid do not come. - The dinner is coming next - "Dona Manuela, entering with a pan in his hands.
In a cigarette paper could have made the menu that poor people: the classic red seabream, cabbage salad, almond milk and desserts brought by Pepe, there was no more.
The bottle Wheel was designed to Don Jose, who would give a couple of drinks to Millán.
The other agreed say that white wine annoyed them a lot.
Shortly afterwards it was not the rasp bream; salad, or a leaf. - Go to the health of those legs - said Millán, draining a drink and glancing at Leocadia. - No re-run as they ran! - All returns, Don José, everything you see you, to the Carlist.
Doña Manuela, bite still had not heard praise for his stew, he began to thunder against the policy. - Do not know about anything else.
It would be a horror.
You - the old man said, addressing the boys - have no idea what they did last time.
Lasted seven years, people could not leave the cities, women and children were shot to ...
now the army is well armed and better dressed.
In the other war fought with guns piston and spark up, and wore pants in winter thread.
Leocadia rose to fetch the milk of almonds, and then bringing back the bowl. - And all this in defense of religion - Miller said mockingly. - Religion has nothing to do with it, my children.
When you took up arms against Fernando VII, no one had abused the religion during the war, the battalions Christines spent more time on ranches Masses, the Liberals were almost more devout than the absolutists; no one had messed with the Church, and of course that you have already reached you, so San Carlos de la Rapita not had anything to do with religion.
Come see him now, will soon be like giving birth to a son of thirty-four years. - Have you always lived apart? - Almost all life.
We've already told you how was it to leave him with Don Tadeo.
In addition, our situation was not good, that is, never has been, We could never save anything.
In order to conclude, when we wrote that Don Tadeo Tirso wanted to become a priest, had already put in the seminar.
Leocadia and I tried to mime that old people over a new toy boy.
