She and a dark man of those that animals cured, came to the attention.
Sometimes he would come to our house and went in the morning, sometimes he would come to the door, pretending to buy eggs, and would come inside.
I at the beginning of their entry, pesábame with him and he scared me color and gesture that was bad, but when I saw that with the food got better, wanting Fuila well, because he always brought bread and pieces of flesh, and in the winter firewood so we could keep warm.
So, continuing with the inn and talk, my mother gave me a little black nice, which I jumped and help keep it warm.
And remember one time when my black father chessman with the little fellow, like the child that my mother and I were white, and not him, fleeing the afraid for my mother, and pointing say, "Mother, coconut!".
He answered laughing: "whoreson!" I, however well a young boy, noted that word of my brother, and said to myself: "There must be many in the world fleeing from others when they do not see themselves!" As luck would have the conversation of Zaide, that was his name, reached the ears of Butler, and done research, he found himself half through the barley, which for animals gave him, stealing, and saved, firewood, curry, aprons, and blankets and bedding for horses had been lost, and when nothing else had, unfettered beasts, and all this came my mother to raise my little brother.
We are not surprised at priests and friars, because the one steals from the poor and another house for his devotees and to help as much, when a poor slave to love what he did?.
And probósele what I say and more, because I with threats, they asked, and answered as a child, and discovered he knew fear, until some shoes that my mother pormandado a blacksmith sold.
When my stepfather thought hit and Pring, and sorry for my mother put justice on the usual centenary home that does not enter the aforesaid Commander, or the hurt in his Zaide accepted.
Not to throw the rope after the bucket, the poor woman went ahead and carried out the sentence and to avoid danger and away from wagging tongues, she went to serve those who were living at the inn de la Solana, and there, indignities, was completed to raise my brother until he knew how to walk and me to be a good little boy who would guests wine and candles and what else they told me.
Finally, no one said getting some passion, then do not said: "Do this, this other, COSEDE such grass, take that root." ANSI we were going under an arcade in Escalona, ??where at the time we were in the house of a shoemaker, there were many ropes and other things that are made of straw, and part of them gave my master head, who, raising his hand, touched them, and seeing what was said to me: "Go quickly, young boy, get out so bad dish from which stifles without eating." Yo, that it was careless of what I looked what it was, and as I saw but ropes and webbing, it was not anything to eat, I said to him: "Uncle, why do you say that?" He replied: "Hush, nephew, according to the tricks that you take, you'll know and see as I speak the truth." And thus we went ahead through the portal and arrived at an inn, at the door of which was many horns on the wall where the Recuero tied their horses.
And when one of them escaped, God forgive me!, Which thousand times gave the devil, and he who had died so many blessings from me said.
Because the whole time I was there, it would be nearly six months, only twenty people died, and I really think that I killed or, rather, died at my request; because seeing the Lord my endless and death, I was glad to kill you for giving me to my life.
More than this he suffered, was no remedy, if the day we buried I lived on was not dead, to look good vezado of the fill, making my quotidian starvation rather sorry.
So nothing stood out except death, I also for me and the other wanted some times, but never saw it, but was always with me.
A neighbor said to him: "In your house I remember that used to hang a snake, and it should be who the culprit.
Maldíjeme a thousand times - God forgive me! - and my bad luck, there most of the night, and (worst) osándome not stir for not waken, I asked God many times death.
And as I say, he was with them just Macías, telling them more sweet that Ovid wrote.
Them, they should be well instituted, as I felt disease, They left him for that era.
For one morning, getting the sad shirt climbed to the top of the house to make their chores, and as I get out of suspicion, desenvolvíle doublet and hose to the head left, and found a pack of velvet, satin fact one hundred fold and no damn white or hobiese signal that had plenty of time. "This," I said is poor and no one gives what he has not.
But the blind and the wretched miser petty cleric who, with God give to both the one hand and kissed another loose tongue, starved me, those are just having aquesta unlove and undefiled. " God knows that today, when I run into any of their habit, with that step and pump, we I pity to think if you have what it saw him suffer, even with all its poverty'd still be glad to serve more than the others by what I said.
Just had of some discontent that I would not be so presumed, rather than down a bit with how much your fantasy coming up to your need.
But it seems to me, and among them is the rule used and stored, although Trucco not gored, they have to keep the cap in place.
By the afternoon so that they returned, but was too late.
And because of this and other stuff I do not say, I left.
Fifth Treaty How Lazaro Went to a Pardoner, and the things that he spent In the fifth by my good fortune gave, which was a Pardoner, the more brash and desvengonzado and more caster indulgences that I ever saw or hope to see or do not think anyone saw, because he and seeking ways and means and very crafty inventions.
In coming to a place where the bull had to submit, first presented to the clergy or cure some things, not of much value or not: some lettuce from Murcia, where were in season, a couple of limes or oranges, peach, a couple of peaches, each path verdiniales pears.
ANSI tried them over because they promote their business and call his parishioners to take the bull.
Provide him thank him, find out how well of reach.
If they said they understood, spoke no Latin word for they could not trip, but took advantage of a gentle and well-cut desenvoltísima romance language.
When they would not taking the bulls, looking for what might take them for evil, and to what had discomfort to people and other times with crafty artifice.
And because all you see would make a long story, tell a very crafty and diverting, with which it will prove its sufficiency.
Somewhere in the Sagra of Toledo had preached two or three days, doing his usual errands, and had not taken bull, I could not see had any intention of taking.
Was given swore up and wondering what to do, he decided to call the people to another morning so he's bull.
And that night, after dinner, they stood to play the collation he and the constable, and the game came to fight and have bad words.
Commissioner my lord took a pike in the door of the play was.
But as people at all the noise the house was full of them, seeing that they could not use weapons, they began to call injurious, including the sheriff said it was my master forger and the bulls who preached were false.
Finally, that the people, not enough to see that putting it in peace, agreed to take the sheriff of the inn and elsewhere.
And so my master was very angry, and after the guests and neighbors pleaded with him to forget about it and go to sleep, he left.
The next morning my master went to the church and told to ring for mass and for fire sermon the bull.
And the people gathered, the muttering about the pardons, saying they were forgeries and that the constable himself quarreling had discovered, so that after they had reluctantly of tomalla, with that of all the hated.
The Lord went up to the pulpit and began his sermon, and encourage people to not remain without the blessings and forgiveness as the holy bull brought.
Being in the sermon, go by the church door the sheriff and, after praying he got, got up and loudly and deliberate wisely began to say: "Good men, let me say a word, then listen to whoever you please." I came here this swindler who preaches, who cheated and said that helped him in his business and to split the profits.
And now, seeing the damage it would do to my conscience and your haciendas, regretting what was done, I clearly stated that the bulls are preaching false and did not believe him nor toméis, and I'm not direct or indirect part in them, and from agora leave the rod and give her in the ground, and if some time it is punished for falsehood, that ye be witnesses to me as I am not with him and I give this help, you the truth and declare his wickedness. " And he finished his speech.
The sheriff said: "Fed is more to say about you and your dirty, but enough for now." Mr.
Commissioner knelt in the pulpit, and his hands and looked up to heaven said thus: "Lord God, to Whom nothing is hidden and everything manifest, for whom nothing is impossible, everything is possible, you know the truth and how I have been accused unjustly.
In As for myself, I forgive you because you, Lord, forgive me.
And made his sermon and fired from the pulpit, and we wanted down, called the clerk and me, who was charged with a wallet, and Hizon reach the first step, and took the sheriff the hands that had and had not in the bags, put them near his feet, and it became a place in the pulpit with a happy face and throw from there, tens and twenties in twenty of his bulls to all parties, saying: "My brethren, take, take of the graces God sends you to your homes, and do not hurts, it is so pious work the redemption of Christian captives which are land Moors
