To which I replied: - Roberto, no more white than you would tell, this scar me I made with all intention, I did me the same, faith.
These were his own words can you make them for a grand deception, but I can bring all the evidence that is true.
Fiddletown male population was or had been in love with her mostly.
Of this number, as one-third believed that their love was reciprocated, with the exception of his own husband remained some doubt about it.
The gentleman who enjoyed this unhappy distinction called Galba.
He had divorced of his excellent wife to marry Fiddletown siren.
This also was divorced, but whispering some previous experience of this legal formality made it less innocent and perhaps more selfish, but it is less concluded that it lacked tenderness or that he was free of the highest moral sentiment.
And in truth, few could read those verses graduates "Infelicissimus" which began: "Why waves no cypress on this front?" Published first time in The Avalanche, under the signature of Lady Clara, without feeling his eyelids tremble a tear of poetry anointing.
Blood lit generous indignation at the thought that Next week the News of Dutch Flat, answered the question with a joke tender poor and brutal, stating that the cypress is an exotic and completely unknown in the flora of the region.
Precisely this tendency to produce feelings in metrical form, and deliver intelligent world through the press, was what first attracted the attention of Galba, in those days drove a car with six mules transport between Knight's Ferry and Stocktown.
So, impressed by a poem describing the effect of the customs of California on a sensitive soul and vague aspirations to infinity of a generous breast view dismal picture of the Californian company, decided to seek the neglected muse.
Galba believed also felt in his soul the secret vibrations of a higher aspiration that could meet in the trade of liquor and snuff that provided farmers and miners camps.
After a series of events that this is not the occasion to relate, wine a brief courtship so brief that it was consistent with the previous legal formalities, the married, Galba and brought his blushing bride or Fideletown Fiddletown, as Madame de Galba preferred call in his poems.
Galba soon discovered that the rosy ideals who conceived while their mules traginaba between Stocktown and Knight's Ferry, nothing in common had with his wife who inspired contemplation of the fate of California and his own spirit.
Perhaps for this reason, the good man, who was not very strong in logic, sticking his wife, and as she was not very strong in terms of reasoning, let himself be led by same principle to certain infidelities.
Then Galba took to drink and the lady to work regularly in the columns of The Avalanche.
Cambiáronse two shots, but contenders would suffer harm, although it says that a Chinese who was unfortunately passed several buckshot in the calves that came from the double-barreled shotgun of colonel.
So learn John [13] to be, hereinafter, away from firearms.
So with a game that you can not miss.
Delicate situation that was exploited by the lady of Galba to leave the house her husband and took refuge in the Hotel Fiddletown, with only the clothes they wore.
Remained there a few weeks, during which time, it is fair to acknowledge that he behaved with the strictest modesty.
A beautiful spring morning, the poet left the hotel and walked down an alley toward the strip of dark pines that limited Fiddletown.
At that early hour scarce transients that ran through the town, stopped at the other end of the street to see output Wingdam diligence, and Lady Clara reached the outskirts of the mining camp no one would notice it.
There he took a side street running at right angles with the main street of Fiddletown and penetrating in the area of ??pine forest.
Was no certainly the only avenue aristocratic people, the houses were few, presumptuous and uninterrupted by shops or stores.
There she was joined Colonel Roberto.
The gallant Colonel swollen, despite the peaceful demeanor usually distinguished him, his coat closely girded their tight boots and cane that hung on his arm, swung jauntily, was not all him.
However, Lady Clara was pleased to welcome with a friendly smile and a dangerous look in his eyes, and the colonel, with a forced cough and strutting, was placed on the left. - The road is expedient - .-- Galba said Col.
I - continued a slight dilation of the breast, which endangered the safety of the buttons of his coat, - I take care to protect it so that you can recover what is fair. - You are very good and selfless - stammered the lady as they continued their march .-- It so nice to find a man of heart, a person with whom to sympathize in a so hardened and insensitive society like the one we have had in luck! ...
And Lady Clara looked down, but not before he had produced the usual effect on passenger. - Indeed, indeed - said the colonel, looking askance restless over two Shoulders: - yes, really.
Not noticing, then, nobody to see or listen, then proceeded to inform Lady Clear that the greatest sorrow of his life had been full to possess a soul too big.
Countless women, whose name, as a gentleman, he did not mention clinics, many women had offered his beautiful love, but lacking in all that quality could not correspond in any way.
But when two natures united by sympathy despise concerns also low and vulgar and conventional restraints of society hypocritical, when two hearts in perfect harmony meet and mingle in sweet poetic communion ...
But here the colonel's speech, which felt the influence of liquor, is clouded to be unintelligible and incoherent.
May be that Lady Clara had heard in cases like something similar and were therefore willing to supply the omissions and inconsistencies the mature beau.
Anyway, the couple's cheeks flush the colonel kept Therefore virginal shyness until they both came at the end of their journey.
Represented the end of the tour but a nice small villa recently bleached and highlighted in nice contrast on a group of pines, some of whose first rows had been removed to make way for a symmetrical wall around jardinito.
Plated sunlight and in complete silence, had the appearance of new and vacant, as if it had of carpenters and painters leave.
In the middle of the garden, digging a Chinese imperturbable, but the house was no other sign of life.
The road, as he said the colonel, was really expeditious and Mrs.
The girl backed away and then getting the distance value, said in his speech Feature: - Go, then. "Poker is not your clams?
With great effort suppressed her tears, held back a sob and said: - Dad ...
Naturally, the girl, Caroline, looked like his mother, and so I would be anything but pretty.
Fancied himself own consumptive dying because of their grief, but still beautiful and fascinating to ruin their glances rearward to the Director of the Avalanche and Colonel Roberto, who watched with effusive passion ... "But where I was, meanwhile, Colonel Roberto
