Sulfuric acid is a certainly long forgotten, in spite of its sphere of action is not acid less than the whip.
If this is of great importance as antimercurial, acid sulfuric acid, the sulfur that enters into their composition, is more effective against herpes, but Secondary herpes or mucous, as evidenced by their physiological effects that make apropos to successfully treat thrush, canker with minor abrasions side in irritation chronic itching of the mucous membranes and the cracks of the lips.
Recently, no longer useful in treating certain skin conditions with itching usually stains red, itching, livid and blue plates, abrasions covered with scabs spontaneous yellow and chilblains, dry rashes on the hands and between fingers of the same. = Dose .=-- The dose and mode of administration are the same as for hydrochloric acid.
Thuja occidentalis (Western YOURS). § I. - History.
Yours or the Canadian West is a family tree of the coniferous Juss monoecy .-- From monadelfia, Linn .-- Although Boerhaave and probably would ignore some British doctors and Americans have dealt with the Canadian thuya If Hahnemann had not proposed listing all known facts about the use of this substance, particularly in dropsy and sorrows indeterminate members.
A therapy should only Hahnemann this precious acquisition: its work on thuya part of the history of psychosis or of condylomata, special affection that this man has tirelessly to put the first regular observation and specific treatment to which this drug enters as one of its first officers.
But first of all we will say something about the psychosis.
The definition has been given of this word [26] applies to the mentagra, but the word fic [27] is the definition that gives Celsus psychosis, which is said escrescencias fleshy, commonly located on the edge of mucous membranes and skin, which sometimes degenerate into ulcers.
Psychosis occurs so often in consequence of syphilis, which has led to confuse these two viruses.
Hahnemann wants to distinguish them, but has not given the characters differential.
The productions are elevations sicósicas epidermis or epithelium of the hypertrophied papillae and situated on a point hardened by a chronic inflammation that usually occurs in consequence of a stroke, a compression, a scratch.
The forms vary according to testura the part where they are located, and probably also, according to that is purely sicósica escrescencia, or mixed with the syphilitic virus, the herpes .....
In the skin presents rather the appearance of warts, on mucous membranes, sexual parts, margin the anus, on the edge of the eye and lips, it has a meatier, more tender, confused through the same thing with grain cancer.
Ficiformes or pedunculated warts, warts, vegetations rattle calls and cauliflower, are manifestations of psychosis.
Is divided, then, this condition in acute, chronic and syphilis: the latter variety is not hallmark, unless it is not accepted as such its appearance with the primitive phenomena of syphilis: treatment results prove their nature.
Acute psychosis is particularly hard grain usually conical, red-faced which sometimes degenerates into gray background corroding ulcer, hard edges and high, they feel stitches in the work of the degeneration, the grain becomes very sore and is formed ulcer: in these cases is often fever.
Escrescencia sometimes warty, ficiforme, smooth and indolent, or splits open with or without pain, and is divided into several lobes.
Chronic psychosis is the vegetation that we have listed, and preference is presented towards forty.
Boeninghausen can admit, as a sign of hereditary psychosis and the indication of the thuja, two symptoms that then listed among its physiological effects, and are bulge of flesh at the tip of the fingers and hands as the feet.
The distinction that we have laid down, according to the opinion of some authors and observation of the facts, not deactivated when, by way of others, the idea that psychosis is always origin syphilitic.
It is convenient, however, indicate, without attempting to resolve the issue, the horse and dog frequently suffer from psychosis, everyone knows the affection of mouth in the dog, which extends in a few days to the entire cavity and fills it with vegetation.
Thuya is specific, because it makes them disappear quickly without fire or caustics, and without excision: these operations, in the final result, favor sicósicas escrescencias reproduction of, and even make them more numerous.
Developing, Therefore, the psychosis of horse and dog without syphilis and no finches phenomena tend to establish that this condition is independent of syphilis.
Polypoid vegetations are perhaps a form of psychosis and has also been given the same origin to the area, smallpox, and to certain ulcers that occur in the dermis.
We at least they have a powerful thuya elective action on the dermis, work very favorably in certain lesions of this part.
Several other drugs have an action similar to the thuja, as to the different vegetations ficiformes, such as: acid whipping, club moss, lime carbonate, silica, bismuth, savin, even states with respect to the escrescencias in general and certain polyps, phosphorus, the causticum, bittersweet, antimony, copper acetate, the Teucrium Marum, mugwort.
In summary, treatment of vegetation and other escrescencias of this genre as well as the terrible sores that happen to some ficus, beads and condylomas, is one of the most beautiful achievements of modern therapeutics, conquest that we owe to Hahnemann, who, although has been attributed exclusively to the thuya to the specificity that has not, since there need in many cases resorting to nitric acid, lycopodium and other drugs, it is a truth thuya that work more effectively so as independent as is the vegetation of any Another virus that develops on the mucous membranes in the points next to the skin, and presents pedunculated form, smooth, reddish and rather soft consistency that lasts.
This does not mean that this drug has no major indications in certain grains sycotic skin, and also shaped pedunculated warty, but always smooth, with some redness. § II .-- physiological and therapeutic effects.
It is well established that the thuya has a special action on the dermis, and even on all parts of the skin surface without its influence to limit it this system.
Offered in all their symptoms, and a very strong blood excitation and phenomena of irritation of mucous membranes, and asthenia and nutritional disorders; presents, in short, neuralgia referred both hiperesténico period as the hiposténico, and consist of pain varied as essential as symptomatic of rheumatic neuralgia, migraine, painful tics, nail hysterical.
Febrile conditions typical of Thuya flegmásicas are still poorly defined, and clinical has few facts to the effect, if excepting some cases of intermittent fever or sender and rather catarrhal fever in predominantly chills.
Thuya also is effective runny nose in the rebel, coryza, certain ophthalmia, stomatitis, urethritis, when the mucous are swollen or have some points the same as hypertrophied extraordinary development vascular system, increased sensitivity, flow serous, mucous and even purulent.
Its indication extends to serosa leucorrhoea and subacute gonorrhea; the coryza with flow watery, runny nose, scrofulous state, at the same ozena; to the cataract followed with ophthalmia chemosis, conjunctival mucous tubercles, sero-mucous flow.
Sulfur is a good auxiliary and it must be stressed these two drugs administered one after another or alternating.
It is useful also in gonorrhea thuya with escrescencias in condylomata exudates, in cankers with fleshy growths, in which three directions is insufficient acid nitric, and in which the thuja can play alone or alternating with it.
This medicine is the cure for excellence of the tubers mucous vegetations pedunculated or wide base, smooth, with or without irritation of the adjacent mucosa, in the year, or elsewhere.
Lycopodium is its analogue in these cases.
We know that whipped acid corresponds better to multiple vegetations, granular, exuding and bleeding, but also We expresses as the excision is not a wise practice.
Canker repeated or multiple pale background, with irregular borders and placed sensitive on irritated mucous correspond to the thuja.
In that heal sores serpiginous on one hand to stretch it out for another, and abrasions in the foreskin and the vagina serous or purulent exudation, you must toggle the thuya nitric acid, if the preparations have no indication as mercury, or if aggravate the condition.
The special action on the skin thuya inclined to hire you in the smallpox successful and some studies say, based on the facts that the drug is important, if no specific and even condoms.
It has been given, as mercury, the property to prevent scars indelible from the pustules of smallpox, managing it towards the end of the period of suppuration.
Sometimes occur frequently use the thuya in certain skin conditions, the syphilids particularly preferably in the form pustular acne, mentagra certain chilblains, patches of dark red and the redness of the copperas in the nose, lips and chin.
This redness is different from other similar conditions, by sensation of heat and some stitches, mainly afternoon and evening, by arrangement to the hot red swelling of the fingers and toes, the pavilion of the ear, the nostrils, the ease to bulge, veins and general sensitivity skin.
This provision of the veins, the sweat on his genitals, hands and feet; the former existence of nodules on the face, red patches, beads warty and escrescencias are circumstances that may characterize the inherent neuralgia thuja, is also observed blood effervescence, arterial pulsations, click on the joints, strong preference to be affected, the left side, worsening at night with heat and motion, and that the phenomena of the circulation are exacerbated, however, with rest.
Migraine, which is a pain as hysterical nail, or at least has an limited extent towards the sutures, with shocks and blows fresh and pain, relieved tilting the head back, is in relation to the effects of thuja.
Definitely worth it to be used in neuralgia more hysterical part of the reputed to essential and in some cases of nymphomania, in consequence of masturbation, with trembling of the limbs, tremors, sweating, and frequent hot flashes, congestive movements in the head and chest.
There are dizziness and feeling like a drunken, dimming of vision, discomfort in the head in the morning, lancinating in temples, or laceration discomfort and endolorimiento in occiput, lighting of the face at a time given, especially in the morning on waking; Chest, oppression, agitation, and feeling bloated, violent palpitation and sensitivity heartache.
Neuralgia own thuya are generally tight and lancinating, as shock or confined to limited points are rarely fixed, take the muscles or joints, that are popping with movement extent.
More commonly attack adults, sudan extraordinary that in the joints, superficial veins that have pronounced, lax skin and very porous, with grains, lumps or growths and certain acquired escrescencias or defects.
If we were possible exposes some results of our practice, add that thuya is effective in certain laryngitis, urinary incontinence, chronic runny nose, stiff neck, dull headache, insomnia and rebellious.
But we prefer to finish this chapter, noting that when used in escrescencias thuya and other exterior conditions should be used exterior and internally in tincture bit diluted.
Sometimes strong doses are ineffective for inside, in others the opposite is true, it is one of the most difficult drug to dose; but, again, that is one of the most precious acquisitions of treatment, even if limit its use to the escrescencias and vegetation, poorly treated today by excision, In view of the ease of reproduce and multiply, by the influence of germ or diathesis, which can not be ignored without problems. = Dose .=-- thuya doses for the interior are the same as reported in the aconite, calcium carbonate .....
It is used usually in solution, in the proportion of part of the dye for one or two of pure water, playing with her several times vegetations day with a brush.
Valeriana officinalis (valerian). § I. - History.
It makes the dyeing with the fresh root.
It dipsáceas the family of De la Triandria Juss .-- monoginia, Linn .-- Also called valerian small.
Founded in numerous ancient and modern documents, we may affirm, thus this drug like many others, that the work of Hahnemann and his disciples, who have served guide our own experience and clinical applications, are highly preferable.
The former have recommended valerian exceedingly: the migraine, paralysis, amenorrhea, pleurisy, intermittent fevers, putrid and nerve typhus.
So exaggerated Tissot the effectiveness of this drug, that all seizure thought to be incurable resist their use, as if they had seizures all the same character and acknowledged a common cause.
Bouteille valerian so confident that he proposed as a prophylactic of hydrophobia.
Professor Trousseau makes it the essential drug hysteria.
Giacomini is more moderate, but unattended, as usual, to the specialists and elective action medication, believed to valerian a vascular and spinal hipostenizante, neither more nor less that as asafoetida, arnica, poison ivy and even lead, medicines confused a general action, but weaker in valerian. § II .-- physiological and therapeutic effects.
Taken heavy dose of valerian, displays an intense action but fickle.
Undoubtedly that anxiety, palpitations, the lighting of the face, dizziness congested, sweats, the laxitudes spontaneous and paralytic weakness are disruptive effects, of short duration, and almost useless for them based on the indications, as sufficient proof the clinic, and the facts are always more eloquent than lectures and speeches.
For the facts and physiological symptoms that reveals esperimentacion, valerian has an elective action on the spinal nerve and ganglion, which are: the tension and nerve mobility, congestion and hot shooting, partial spasms, tenderness and irritability excesses, and numbness after; disorder, in short, sensitivity, and disharmony innervation.
Few drugs will be better suited to valerian to the nervousness of women delicate and exceedingly sensitive children, affected by the worms, but not for to the injection of the senses and nervous for mobility, an important element of hysteria, and therefore on the premises.
Valerian is also contraindicated in hysterical ball, but not when only sensation of heat rising from the epigastrium or the navel to the throat, nausea almost always.
These upward heat puffs are a symptom of its action.
Alter the circulation momentarily, and yet fits exactly to certain conditions subacute rheumatic fever, aches, erratic numerous, and feeling of brokenness and weakness, as a regulator of the nervous system.
Under this view also is indicated valerian in nervous and typhoid fever, when the pulse is small and fast, if there is exaltation of the senses of sight and hearing to touch, break tendons without constancy, inertia of the muscular system, increased urination puffs of heat that rises to the head, miliary eruption sometimes quiet delirium consisting of hallucinations, the patient is believed, for example, on the edge of the bed to make room to another.
Valerian also be preferred to any other, in fevers of children verminous and fever prevalence in all nervous, especially when there is pallor, anxiety, palpitations of heart, muscle tremors.
Add to these some useful indications for the use of valerian in the state of nervousness and impressions of the hypochondria people who sleep badly, always in pain, from flatuosidades in concept, and certain ideas that the distressed; often feel extraordinary hunger, nausea and even vomiting, loose stools; the urine usually are abundant and clear.
Although valerian is not able to cure these conditions completely nervous, as to its causes diathetic at least, however, very useful and might lead to more fundamental choice of drugs, by induces changes in the general.
If, finally, the importance of valerian in the treatment of hysteria is inferior to that of hellebore in the same circumstances, the reader can judge the therapeutic wealth offered by the medical field, after have seen in this work a number of eminently antihysteric drugs. = Dose .=-- doses of valerian are the same as those already identified in other medicines, administered in various mitigations or tincture.
Hellebore was the remedy of all serious and chronic ailments, but no fever.
Patients flocked in large numbers, even from the most remote countries, to Anticyra, city of Greece, where they had established directed by physicians who submitted the patients to hellebore, in the extreme, violent medication.
Also it was thus the mental alienation, melancholia, neuralgia, rheumatism, gout, epilepsy, dizziness and paralysis, elephantiasis, a condition herpetic calculations, scrofula, hypochondriasis, hidden cancer.
Hippocrates was cholera of his time, certainly indian with hellebore.
This heroic medicine, finally, fell to while Greece absorbent succumb to the greatness of Rome, and in the Middle Ages not to speak of it again.
Later they made some mention undecided.
Are confounded, so Thus, the various species of hellebore, until Hahnemann, not content to make known the great importance that the ancients gave to this drug, was given to many experiments, which, repeated by some doctors, the facts have confirmed the high, from cholera Asia, to the neuralgia and convulsive coughs
