But is there a particular stamp of elegance and taste not found in any of the other major Spanish cities, except to Seville.
He feels a keen pleasure to go almost all the streets of Cadiz, or to stand under the thick shade of the magnificent trees of the squares of "San Antonio" and "Mina." Apart from the interest they excite people of all cliques of conditions and the elegant shops full of curious, wherever you walk from one surprise to explore the best streets, paved not richly tiled.
It's outrageous the number of women in unhappy establishments that kind of corruption, and experts speculate the infamy the direction of those houses, namely the ignominy of European societies.
After stretching in several directions many works of fortification, which are in some way the defenses of Cadiz and background the bay.
Port Royal, located on the mainland coast, at the bottom of the bay is a nice population of 5.000 souls.
The vicinity of the mouth of Zurraque (south) and confused with one arm sea, and Guadalete, which enters the north, in the corner of the bay, the modern structure the streets and houses (usually symmetric) and its pier and harbor filled with fishing Seafood and carrying water boatmen, the table to the two sides are equidistant, The yard of the Ratchet and the "Trocadero" (commercial use) that is to the west on the bay, the animation of the people and the grace of the neighboring gardens and country houses - all this contributes to make Port Royal a picturesque and lively population.
That is the walking and break for the rich Cadiz, many owners of houses and villas pleasure at this point in the Spanish coast. "Port-Saint-Mary" is much more significant.
Delay, as I said, at the bottom of a small Gulf (north-west of Port-Royal) whose waters are separated from the Bay of Cadiz by peninsula or tongue of land where the "Trocadero".
Santa Maria, which is about 14 km from Jerez and Cádiz, 21, is the end of the road to Seville, and there recently completed the railway passes.
From there lies a land of imponderable wealth of carefully cultivated vineyards (and many other fruit trees), both from the point Jerez, towards the interior, whether by the coast in the direction of Rota (the country's famous tintilla) and the lower Guadalquivir.
The distance between St Mary and Port Royal is so short, the Guadalete involved, that in fact the former seems to belong both to the bay same as the Gulf said.
Its main communications with Cadiz are sustained through vapor coming out of a good spring and consistently across the bay.
Santa-Maria is a beautiful town with over 21.000 inhabitants, with much activity and movement agricultural, industrial and commercial.
Lies at the foot of a hill overlooking the right bank Guadalete, and is literally surrounded by orchards and vineyards.
It has many institutes public, many factories (mainly of fine liquors, pickles, hats and soap), and apart from its strong production of wines, cultivated many arts and crafts.
There is the type of populations Andalusia, active and industrious in general, where there are rarely any symptoms reveals of poverty or decay. * * * * * The time we needed to continue the tour.
So, we went to a small coastal steamer and returned to Cadiz.
Sevilla had to leave for the next day, and we take the second night we had visiting a theater and some cafes.
Nothing particular in the theater elegant and well attended (because the Spanish people are very passionate about the shows to impress strongly or make you laugh), but found, like most of Spain, a farce sung to pieces, with the name of zarzuela, and the usual choreographic developments French style - that are making it unbearable pest lose their originality and grace Spanish theater.
Instead of a good comedy or a good drama (and there are plenty in Spain) the public has to swallow how can a comic opera in bad taste, which degrades the same time to the play and opera.
In retaliation, the coffee is in all Spanish cities most curious social element.
To an inhabitant of northern Europe nothing could be more unpleasant perhaps, but for a noon child of Hispanic or Colombia, with the instincts of expansion and sociability, the scene has many attractions.
I said, speaking of Barcelona and Madrid, the most noteworthy approached the cafes in Spain.
As the spirit of the people is strongly liberal in all major Spanish cities, and particularly in Andalusia, coffee, - element expansion frank and free discussion and censure - is more important even in Cadiz Sevilla, etc., Where the liberal opinion it takes full advantage.
The piano (furniture infallible in the big brown) helps to raise the spirits and increase the noise of hundreds of parishioners - not infrequently serving epigrammatic instrument, according to the mood of the crowd.
It is common to express opposition there trends the national government, aversion to the French government, etc., making run (with applause loud and unanimous) and the hymn of Irrigation, and the Marseillaise, or another piece that involves an strong political reference.
Apollo Coffee, where we settled in Cadiz for a few hours in two nights, we sought a means of making curious observations on the political practices Cadiz.
Even inside the unique structure of coffee helped to make interesting scene, having some resemblance to the elegant homes that I have described, being observed from one of the top balcony overlooking the great room and details of all groups simultaneously.
I was stunned to hear the Spanish speaking on more serious matters: I seemed to be Bogotá in a cafe (where they speak with absolute freedom) but, in truth, was mutual tolerance in the most frank and earnest discussions of the Spanish.
Were said more clarity, without insulting, but seasoned with the usual Spanish pepper the three CCC, without having the slightest fear of a disagreement.
It's really rare ease and wit with which the Spanish people manage the epigram and knows how to apply a saying at every opportunity.
This unique political and social importance of the cafes in Spain made me think a little.
She dates from the time of constitutional government, so it is an institution very modern.
