In two minutes it was clear and the isthmus open a path in there campizo which covered the stumps of the cliff, until the pile of snow which lay Chisco.
Then the intrepid boy was pulled to the base of slope, and there, as if he were in the garden of his home, without worry the least about the horrific vision of the abyss that opened at half staff in each of his feet, he began to EXPAL snow slope, side to side, sending at the same time it did above the same, as the blades reach.
Without base and the snow slope and removed overhead, began to slip into the isthmus, which was split into two waterfalls disappearing in the ravine.
Clear and clean the slope in a few moments and unfettered, therefore, of the dangers they feared before, he fell down the rope called Chorcos, tied as it should and he knew it, his friend under the arms, and gingerly pulling up and helping the He fondly from below, was Chisco, who could not do anything for themselves, leaning to the slope. - Up to him now! - Salces Pete shouted, as pulsu, because if no one brazu cascau yeva has of faltali POCU.
Chisco arrived happily at the top, down the rope again, Atos her Chorcos, subiéronle; and no one stopped to ponder the feat, and it occurred to him that he had done worthy of the name, ran to surround all Chisco, who had already taken over the doctor in the oak groves, attended mainly by Don Sabas.
The head wound was negligible, and the arm was not even a dislocated shoulder.
The worst was the blood loss weakened him very much, and what might be of concussion, although how compliant was a good sign that the whole body was showing the remedies that you Neluco applied.
Three quarters of an hour the patient was sitting by his own efforts and their free will, another quarter of an hour later, asking detailed news of all that had past the hour and a half, he ate with great appetite and was drinking when he gave, and unfulfilled two hours, rehearsing their vigor of kicking in the snow walking and praying to Cure Neluco because it broke the place quickly.
Walking now, said Don Sabas your doctor: - And they say that miracles are no longer!
Be in the canyon wall smooth one rock ledge, go for the death penalty Chisco dragged by cellerisca; have a bed rock more than six feet of snow, and engage him in blankets cellerisca over another Thus, for the fall out soft.
And finally, is not the greatest of all the occurrence of Pete?
For what would have served the other without such barbarism?
As it was necessary to accommodate Chisco walk, his gait was not ordinary, down to Tablanca lasted much more than estimated at the output of "Cuevona" of "Pedregalón of Escajeras'; and how, even so, the monsoon of Robacio was not iron, became tired and not feeling much well as the night wore on grew colder and colder.
There were fears that Tablanca unable to reach their feet, and looked for shortcuts to soon.
How come, at last, Neluco and patients, we have already seen us.
Finished the story, with detailed comments from listeners, and refreshed and with Neluco lumbrona heat, god around Chisco's bedroom, saw and saw all sleeping profoundly a quiet sleep without any sign of fever, caused us instructions what could happen until he returned the next morning, called the bluff and Facia had prepared him, took leave and went to his house where his housekeeper would be crying by entrusting to him and to God.
Until well after midnight did not start the sleep feints to confuse and stack these thoughts and those images in his head, and that was precisely when I heard few knocks on the floor of the apartment of my uncle.
He used to call it with a stick that put leaning against the headboard.
But the shock of that night was something distinguished them from the blows of other times, heard by me without warning.
Could this be true, or product of a hallucination of mine, but I, in doubt, I stuck to it first and I got a leap, lit the candle, got dressed in the air and went to the call.
I found the poor guy sitting up in bed, iris color, looking for distress, mouth open, panting and breathing hard, and a rattle in the chest that looked like death.
and I did not know what to do or what to say at first: I imposed that picture had never seen and felt at the same time very compassionate.
It reached the two maids, who had also heard the shots, and, seeing his master from the door, I said Facia ear: - What mesmu that again!
because it was able to rise risk of getting worse, and Chisco and the Cure and Neluco and I and Facia and every one of the sleeping or resting at that hour or went healthy and good for the house, made missing in the world, all but him, that seeing themselves in this predicament was seen in his own interests and in what was natural.
But it is another reminder of her ...
and do not lie, the funeral mass, the body of your uncle, Marcelo, your master, Facia, which is already in abundance in this home and abroad ...
When morning came, at last, I was shivering with cold ...
and sadness, seated at the head of my uncle's bed, having seen from the sunshine of my room that did not appear the new day more cheerful than the last, and sent a wire to Neluco to anticipate the visit as he could.
XXIII As my uncle was found free of the attack on waking from sleep, relatively quiet, I had watched since dawn, and saw the room lit by daylight, although brown, melancholy, forgot the anguish she had suffered fatal few hours earlier, and he had not told other desire than to jump out of bed to make life normal.
God help us reduced cost to us even listen to the reasons we had for oppose the reckless and dangerous endeavor.
Neluco, which was already present and well aware for everything that happened during the night, he had really upset and even lacking a bit different respect.
If not for the good, bad that day would have to stay in bed and the next, and the other, and lasted as long as the snow storm.
because life is buried in cuartajo!
be in bed days and days to a man like me, without fever or pain.
After he surrendered, rather than conviction, for lack of strength to get away with it; but turned his face to the wall muttering protests and abuse as a child upset.
One Hundred and One, So you just imagine if there have to be careful, even to stop the death of Don Celso few days.
What is needed here now to discipline him a little, is to organize the editing assistance at the same time the life of this home.
You may not accommodate certain tasks, improper of their habits and even their nature Facia is the stamp of melancholy, and her daughter, Tona unable to meet with the most affectionate of the applications, skill and polish it missing.
Moreover, neither the mother nor daughter can, by their servant, imposed impetuous whims of his master, who, moreover, he knows them by heart, as than you.
More than wines and drugs, must attend to this patient with entertainment distracting him and glad and require you to be docile, even by courtesy.
Finally, I Mari Pepa thought.
Mari Pepa is coming here as a nurse with all my heart, and coming it will come Lita too, and under the pretext of accompanying Don Celso, pass to his side all day and make this big house an aviary.
Pearl seemed to me, and so he declared to Neluco.
He was to turn the plan into a thing made, and arrive in the bedroom this Chisco.
Which was no longer in it or nearby.
We went down to the stables and there we found him.
Something arm still hurt "jancia the hombral" but as was the left, handles well for their business.
He had a good 'appetite' is' did discover "the other rowing final, and That was up as usual.
I knew what his master, and he had "the diantris" to consider that while the poor guy went through hell, he was sleeping leg loose all night, and because of "softness and arreparus" who had been "malamenti" a man with his belt.
Pulsóle the doctor and he acknowledged the arm and head injury; gave him for safe and sound if required to observe certain prescribed care, bye me until "later", and left.
I suspected the same, and returned to the patient's bedside and sat at the head of your bed.
I found him more "human" than before, no doubt because it was also more depressed.
Tempt him not desire speak, nor was desirable provocársele as very expensive custom of Neluco, tell me I think by having nothing else to occupy them there.
It was certain that I had come really want to my uncle: the view was what hurt me the seriousness of his condition and the danger he was in the hands quedársenos when least expected, and yet the prospect of that number of bed days imposed by the doctor to the patient, with Subject to that made me this extent, the scant and gloomy precincts of that room, and tenacious, thick snow that had heaven in darkness, the earth without soil to tread and imprisoned its inhabitants, I worried and hurt me why deny it!
The heart frequently vitiated human of these ailments, not evil itself, but for lack education of the feelings, disuse of the most delicate of them, remnants of selfishness acquired the freedom of a life without barriers and boundaries.
I Explicábame that weakness, which seemed to grave sin, with these thoughts, and they consoled me, although not as much as the hope that plans be made and come Neluco Lita and her mother, Lita especially to relieve the weight of the cross, renewing the air and faces and sounds and light up those areas sorrowful, silent, black and dreary.
By midmorning entered the door of the room of the house the daughter and granddaughter of Don Pedro Nolasco, shortly after I heard if any "chirp" and fill the passage of Argentina and harmonious voices.
I went to meet him and got a pinch without hiding the great joy that his visit gave me.
The eyes and nose were all that was seen of his people: all else was a conglomerate skirts, jackets, shawls and woolen shawls thick and sweet.
Asking and saying, pray quietly (when it was undesirable that could hear my uncle), now almost shouting (to agree hear it), were loosened head and discovering his face, until it appeared in Lita (I saw little in the other) as moon in January between gray clouds, or more properly, as an August apple wrapped in the leaves of the branch: this was coloradito of smooth and down the roundness of her flesh there.
As they came well-informed and educated by Neluco, little or no talk about the role they corresponded in the comedy that we were going to represent in front of the patient.
Don Pedro Nolasco was unable to accompany them, or rather, had not allowed them, for fear fall would have been fatal in hombrazo of his years ...
they were scary.
Only on the rise it had fallen scree (Lituca) twice, and the same knee that must have made a pity.
I had not seen it yet, but I could swear by what the "sting", but not preventing movement, thank God.
Moreover, they knew that the patient did not suit him talk, although the request: the Occasionally, some chunga, as if evil was a joke, on time and with love, drugs and food, and to forgive them if they openly for inviting us to eat, because they, under the pretext of the snow, had planned to stay until night without Don Celso malice the truth of reason.
They came equipped to do more entertaining work hours remaining around the brazier.
Although still alive, was given be dead now.
They protested against the course, assuring him that he had "lodging" then it was the coldness of snow, and may also feel some of that would give the knowledge of what happened on the mountain the day before. - Do not deny it - it answered my uncle - and therefore no two ways about what you I said, for what can be expected as a man of my vein when left mayor, as I am mayor, by tinkering like that?
It was the truth, but, nevertheless, insisted the women bonísimas deny it, but not the impetus needed to achieve its charitable purposes, they were extremely affectionate and were imposed and shaken before that exhaustion and that cadaverous pallor the poor Don Celso, neither for the sake of maintaining their rights ignored by professional tyranny of Neluco, remembered and rising.
They left at last in the calm he needed instalámonos in the adjoining room, came gray woman with encogollado brazier of glowing embers, put him in the box that was there, and we sat around it, without losing sight of the sick, Mari Pepa, her daughter and me.
Mari Pepa got a very large pocket of her apron to the accoutrements of media; Lita (I did not know what withdrawal of its complicated wrappers) to the nail, and both began to work in their work and talk at the same time, but with eyes and sign with the mouth, which had to do with the status of my uncle.
I spoke of Lita had doubts Toper's home, and here's where my tenacity bordering on impertinence.
I met him at a glance strangeness with my beautiful interlocutor who responded to me a hint that were cleared too my intentions.
Then came Don Sabas, complaining since the passage of the regard that had been saved in our house that night.
