I have done much damage, a lot!
It was not my dignity, my pride destroyed what made me suffer ...
It seemed as if a cold hand gently gather me the guts ...
He slept in absolute immobility, eyes curved and densely pale face.
But that faded after laugh.
Doña Eloisa severe glanced at her husband. - Come on, do not start barbarize, Martin. - Lord, I do not speak only of the possibility of a mistake! - Invalid replied, laughing .-- Y if not, tell me Fr Norberto if there is much difference in figure between a lady and these girlfriends theirs. - They are friends of mine, D.
Good old D.
Norbert, the chaplain and organist of the parish, too modest to aspire to make triumphant virtue and faith among the upper classes, was dedicated with enthusiasm had long to start the service to these poor women who fall into it the most often by poverty.
Was introduced into the filthy dwellings they occupy, catechized making titanic efforts of oratory that put red as a tomato and forced him to coughing and spitting in a way awesome.
And when Bossuet art produced no effect, appealed money.
He was a pious bribery where he had spent the short flow inherited from their parents and it also took most of their pay.
He had managed to repentance various sinners, which used to lead to some asylum or convent established for them in Valladolid, by covering it, of course, travel expenses, installation, etc.
But in return of these triumphs experienced the good chaplain horrible disappointment.
Often beautiful was contrite sinners, he drew all the rooms and concluded that they could laugh telling him and the disappointment of the villa.
But do not faint in his work.
I was laughing test and failures.
The dream of D.
Norberto Peñascosa was found in a convent to repent.
To achieve would be able to go begging throughout the province, working as a bracero himself in the building, to give up eating tripe for the rest of his life.
In the village everyone knew that their hobby.
There was no one believed not entitled to give his little joke about particular more or less heavy, according to education of the individual.
But, much as they were, never saw him angry or give even signs of impatience.
No no doubt, though some appear, their good intention and complete disinterest that worked on this issue.
Norberto, - her husband wants to refer to the media I need to use soft to convince those fuckers.
Martin, realizing it had gone too far, he nodded, but not a wink expressive conduct the chaplain.
Obdulia was egregious efforts by eating, but his stomach refused to receive any food.
Still in a state of agitation clearly visible.
Martin's kids' about his lack of appetite.
Despite his penchant for the church, he was betting that was to end violently passionate.
There were certain signs: the eyecup, which she was very pronounced, the eyes a little narrowed, dry lips ...
The chief turned to slip invalid.
Ms Eloisa was embers, and again called order anguished voice.
This happened very often.
Martin enjoyed the unspeakable coloring the cheeks of the ladies with their bold statements.
He felt it was appropriate complement of another trend that was to get red of the Knights with their proverbial slaps.
Both accused his temper inclinations and testified undeniably heroic they come from the weapon of knighthood.
Obdulia used to respond to opportunity and grace, not infrequently leaving piqued, but the concern now denied access to embargoed note of his words and give them their due.
Before He felt unwell after dinner and had to go to another room and threw all he had eaten.
At dessert arrived Ms Serafina Barrado with his chaplain and steward.
The eyes were shining with fire gay and malicious that caught the attention of his friends. - Here's a cigar, D.
Martin - said the young priest, offering accredited one band, As he was sucking the voluptuously. - Good snuff! - Said the master of the house between the toes turning .-- What lashes stick you, friend! - Regular, Regular - replied the priest with a smile of satisfaction, leading to the same time an expressive look to his former mistress, who paid with other bright and loving. - Where do you buy? - Do not buy: I give them away.
Another change of smiling glances and passionate. - Ah!
Joaquin laughing - was burgundy. - Better and better. - Yes! - Ms Serafina said, ogling his chaplain.
