As the night went without asking any street name, and who knows where you intends to go and insists on hiding it.
Doña Manuela and Leocadia was out on the balcony, and the last past him on a bluff and go for the bow to the Plaza Mayor, had a sentence was the abbreviation of the situation by running through the family. - How strange it is me!
XIII Although sleep and travel fatigue and honored him, were not mentioned that night without writing Tirso a long letter, which perhaps had something to do with the output that was in the afternoon.
While Dona Manuela and Leocadia's father slept, he began to write.
The lamplight shone full and angled his face sallow, his eyes were large, looking brown and stubborn, a high forehead, somewhat spoiled by depression towards the temples, the tough lips and ledges and rough features, such as wrong size carved.
Dábanle aspect hardness the sharp brow, which involuntarily frown, and a dark sheen was left safe at the beard, even recently shaved.
Feelings seemed a man with a late, but strong and durable, ready to turn the firm into stubbornness and coldness in violence.
Its sweetness, when the show was to be enforced, his anger, sincere, all accused in the character own energy before the fight that complacency of the will.
His soul possessed grim devotion, should feel better the earnest proselytizing the sweet Peter Arbuckle God love Santa Teresa.
His priestly progeny was not among the meek of heart, but between those clerics who imagined heaven's door open with the hatchet to fight Moors.
His religious fervor had hints of war enthusiasm.
San Pablo cutting the ear of Roman soldier to defend Christ, or battling in Santiago Clavijo, were a thousand eyes times more glorious than outlawing Hilary force.
Some worship the Lord, others fight by dilating his kingdom on earth was their Tirso.
While the Church had unbelievers to gag, to defend privileges or privileges require the contemplative life seemed to him own narrow minds.
A mystical readings that @ the imagination, preferring the legends of daring missionaries who are the knights of faith.
A verse liked the Gospel above all: he who says: "I have come to bring peace to the world, but the sword. " * * * * * The next morning he rose early and did not leave.
Leocadia was listening to read newspapers his father, although he remained a long time with them, not say a word about purpose of his trip.
When the night was sleeping Leocadia Dona Manuela and Don José, he told his daughter: - Pepe often come too late? - No, almost always before noon. - Then wait for him today and tell him to come into the bedroom: I have to talk to him.
Mother and daughter guessed what it was, but he suggested no suspicion.
All equally surprised by the long silence of Tirso.
It was really weird to not give the any explanation about the trip.
Perhaps came only to see their parents, but this was not credible who missed so many years without it.
Before midnight came Pepe, and Leocadia, who was waiting for him, went with him to the bedroom his parents, where Dona Manuela and Don José asleep waiting disclosed.
Leocadia without a word heard the short dialogue that father and son argued. - Pepito, is not it hits you? - A lot, but you miss the cause. - Is that not a word ...
I do not understand what could be.
What do you think? - No, Dad.
It is time to talk or want to bother now.
Besides, you know I think: we have tried, we do not know, how we love ourselves as hell we love it and I? - Y Leocadia nodded her head yes. - You're right, son, but I loathe you have it.
The light of a candle that Pepe had made in the next room shakily lit the table, and the old man's face appeared in print the curious restlessness that he was concerned.
The bed was half undone, because he was fidgeting in her until she saw enter your child, and occasionally ran his eyes to his wife, as astonished that I could sleep free from doubts and suspicions that he was experiencing. - Oh, to rest, Dad.
Leocadia Pepe and kissed their father and two children, and left.
Passing of the bedroom Tirso, noted that snoring. - Do you hear? - She asked. - Yes, listen, listen how you lose sleep over the excitement of being at home. - Goodbye, Jimmy, see you tomorrow. - Abur, puppet, ugly. - Tonto, look like a boy. - At the foot of you, madam, ugly, hideous.
During the following days, Tirso kept identical save: no way out, talked of things indifferent, shunning all talk about his past, avoiding features of intimacy and acting as have not heard what he disliked.
When eating, sit last in the table, muttering the Benedicite between his teeth, he knew that others had to pray it, and go at night to be collected rosary from his pocket, leaving him in his hand to his room.
The first Sunday he spent in the house he rose more than usual and was praying over while, but did not leave or mass.
Leocadia, taking a moment he saw him go into the dining room looking for a breviary called Pepe: - Come, come and see what has put that in the bedroom.
I have come to make his bed, and look how I feel this.
Tirso had covered the glass of the window overlooking the garden with bits of paper brightly colored, married forming bad taste and whimsical shapes.
Sunlight, stained and distorted by the improvised transparent, giving the room a pitch variegated.
It looked like a caricature of a Gothic window.
Furthermore, on the head the bed was against the wall with chewed bread a picture of a very beautiful San Jose, with curly hair on low heat, rosy cheeks and holding the palm of a hand a child standing, as if to teach him to make puppets, while the other brandished a stick with more flowers than bow Seville.
On the opposite wall had a chrome: latest Ecumenical Council, meeting old dressed in red, sitting in a semicircle as bishops in the first act of the African, among which stood out for their white robes, a man who came to tell secrets in his ear a dove coming through a window, looking like being wrapped in a light beam.
Pepe covers everything at a glance and made a gesture, between laughs and contempt, telling his sister: - As these doodles had to buy them out that made the day he arrived, because certainly has not set foot in the street. - Certainly.
In the afternoon, while Don José was asleep, the mother in the kitchen and dressing Pepe to go see Peace in walking distance, Tirso spoke to his sister dearly, but violent to appear calm. - Have not gone to church today ... - I made the chocolate for all, I've combed hair and mom, I have composed a tattered a cloak was in your room, Lord, what a cloth so hard!
I scan the room and I down on the purchase ... - I mean, here everything, absolutely everything, is before God.
Suddenly, taking a newspaper that was on a chair, read the title: La Libertad Spanish. - What is this? - And touching only the tips of the fingers, as if afraid to get dirty he dropped to the ground muttering - Papelucho atheists! - Do not throw it, which then asks for a weapon and Pepe breaks loose!
Tirso went into his room and Leocadia was to help his mother, but the priest went out immediately back to the room with the haggard face, and took the paper, crumpled it hard and made a ball, threw it into a corner.
As the hall was very short, Leocadia heard the rustling paper crushed and ran back to his brother while ere it closed in his room.
The girl knew what had just happened.
Tirso held before her anger at seeing the paper, but then, left alone, the anger overcame prudence.
The prospect of a dispute between two brothers, who could sour, frightened Leocadia deeming it happened a threat to the peace of the house.
His good sense told him I was forced to hide it from Pepe.
After much thought, after trying in vain unwrinkle the newspaper with his hands, took him to the kitchen and straightened with a hot iron, leaving it to his brother after find him without seeing him Tirso.
When evening came Pepe Millan, who used to eat there on Sunday, leaving much of the night with Don Jose, for being near Leocadia.
Presentation made him the father of his eldest son happily ate all desktop and talked about politics, the only conversation I had the privilege of diverting the poor old man, who was every moment means to relate the events of that time with those of his youth, drawing comparisons between men and different times.
Pepe had begun to read Spanish La Libertad, which asked Leocadia and she brought without a single wrinkle, to the surprise of Tirso, but this remained silent, willing to listen Miller that, looking from time to time to the girl, holding a dialogue with Don José.
I remember that when the de Vergara, who were actually lost us after the Liberal Party said the crown the Queen, he was treated like a black-Espartero cornered him at once, to official Carlist favored them much, they said we were all brothers, and ours, which winter had beaten in denim pants ...
went to the Philippines or as Fernando Poo looked suspicious. - That and similar things so many Republicans in the new generation, because we convinced that there is no alternative. - That is very dangerous: people are not ready. - And since no one teaches anything, does he have to learn at their own expense. - Is that today there is no civic virtues.
If you only saw what indignation 40 year unfolded against Toreno and Martinez de la Rosa, requested the extension because of half tithe, and even the whole tithe and the scoop!
Well they would not approve Espartero the famous Councils Act! - Enthusiasm sterile, and have often been drowned in blood. - In that you are right.
Was condemned to death for anything.
Since the execution of Manzanares sixty partners and twenty of Alicante, May 8, until the Sergeants June 22, has last year without any such brutality, except to Zurbano, and the death of Mariana de Pineda, for whom it was necessary to make a new club, because my neck was very skinny ... - In spite of this - broke Pepe - there are those who look favorably upon the Restoration and who fights for Don Carlos.
Upon hearing this joke wicked Tirso could not take it anymore.
Praise Mendizabal, the reference to tithing and the scoop, the horror of the executions of revolutionaries, the liberal spirit throbbing in the conversation, made him harm, but to exploit what a grace the third person of the Holy Trinity, set the height to their outrage.
Then, rising from his seat, approached the group formed by Pepe and Miller with Don José and, as before the balcony, on which stood clear opening its slender black figure and said sternly: - It seems incredible that men talk and opinion!
Miller stopped in deference to his friend, and Don Jose because he repented of having said such things, leaving room for the wrath of Tirso: Pepe, more passionate, he faced it, and while talking moderately, he said: - It is natural to have sympathy for the reactionary parties, are those that protect you; but do you deny that we can not look good for the Church?
freedom is what Christ commanded you to preach democracy is that which hath allowed you, clerics and monks, born among the most humble, climbing posts highest in the world. - For Mendizabal was a thief. - That is a nonsense that has nothing to do with what we say.
And look, do not fret; but what I like Mendizabal, is for being who has done more harm to the Church. - Hush, my children, hush! - Shouted Don José: - Are you going to fight now?
Tirso made futile efforts to hide his disgust.
His displeasure was not grief, but anger, seeing that he was wrong when, shortly set foot in the house, he imagined that there was no devotion or belief.
His father was a progressive ridiculous that Espartero excited talking, and his brother a demagogue atheist, of which make a mockery of God and Divine Providence, his mother a poor lady, whom he imagined to be a saint because he was industrious, and a little girl presumed Leocadia, who spent the morning embandolinándose hair.
There was no mass, or fasting, or praying; there was no bull, ate meat on Fridays and father tolerated Pepe wicked jokes.
Was to vent their anger about violence in apostrophes, of which so often heard the gentlemen who frequented the house of Mr.
No greater insult conceived.
The women looked at the last words of dialogue, said gruffly, surprising the news that there Wheels by political matters, Miller went to stand beside Leocadia; Don Jose was silent, trying to find means of changing the conversation, stood Tirso to the balcony, as challenging them to all and ready to resume the dispute.
His figure was arrogant, more like soldiers ready to fight, that man eager to convince After a while, as a champion who has waited in vain for his adversary, left the room quietly.
Pepe and Miller went for a walk through the streets.
In the portal, that he asked, referring to the last scene: - Have you heard? - You are going to have much trouble. - Would you believe that this is the time we do not know why you came? - Was he in town Carlist relationships with people? - Why do you ask? - Be careful ...
Let's see if you give the police a scare.
To print your father would be a disaster.
