Salted meat, bad bacon, miniestra minced, and meals usually stale have been the mainstay of its individuals.
Reduced rational treatment to each other, the risks many of the wild Indians, and Breakfast miserable shacks, or huts of straw, irresistible to the inclement stations.
See inequality as the average of one to another.
In the Sierra Morena there was more to do than build the houses, simple operation for the many materials and operators that were held.
For the cultivation of land were provided with oxen tamed, and excellent tools that filled their wishes.
In the Patagonian coast around lacked: the rigors of cold climate, particularly in San Julian, and only found the greatest relief where he was suspicious of the risk.
The savage Indians held and encouraged us at that port, providing relief to the unfortunate people with guanaco meat, without whose help had perished, and the Black River, with the hares, horses and many cattle.
Now So Check against the advantages enjoyed by the Sierra Morena with the misfortunes of those Rio San Julian and Black, and fairly be said that everything was happy and joy, and here all unhappiness and sadness.
Despite this inequality, and be near a wisest king that manages the universe, plotted intrigues and contradictions that are notorious of which can be inferred that such a lengthy mediated hemisphere where only the two commissioners have been and will hold a impregnable rock.
The whale fishery, the supply of salt in the province of Buenos Aires, and provide for this means the meat trade of many that are lost in the vast fields of the Rio Plate, facilitate port for ships sailing up our Sea to the south and become more soft and comfortable this navigation, paving the way by water or by land to Valdivia and Chile, where with less cost and risk can be made transitive and trade that achieves Buenos Aires, and ultimately repair and extend the one with the capital in corambre of their campaigns, maybe even the Black River, linking to this importance of security borders that underlies the increase in populations of Indians and sugecion media attract the true knowledge of God and the good of the state, are the utilities that the we can take time and get in the conservation of the establishment of Black River.
Vastness and awesome of them to the first impression, shows a strange aspect to be watched with the utmost contempt.
Notwithstanding anything to intimidate me, because love and spirit of patriotism I looked to the just, pious and charitable intentions of the King, in the execution of these establishments, he defies everything.
I am going to meet for the same series of particulars that I have proposed, the reasons and fundamentals that I attend, drawn from the experience and knowledge I've taken of those Parages.
The British have opened our eyes to the inexhaustible treasure brings whaling; because of such remote regions, and to much risk, they are delivered to the discretion of the seas without more ports without more aid, more soft drinks or the insecurity of the elements, and what drive their boats.
With these hardships and dangers make their fisheries, and take very great profits of ourselves, through the oil that we sell to careen our ships: so that, with this trade off our shores, we are pilgrims of it, and lose that costs money, which ought to be to benefit the state, and we could acquire by the same means of this nation and others, whose interests would give much increase and glory to ours.
The attempt that just made D.
Francisco de Medina, resident and trade in this city in the port of San José, with the frigate called the Ventura, (and before May when it was in the the English) gives us a true knowledge of the proportions that has that port.
Without leaving him 50 whales harpooned in a month.
It is true that this laudable enterprise miscarried the poor quality of the harpoons, and ineptitude of those operators.
Repeating the same attempts, repaired the causes that failed, it's all up, and with the aid that clears the establishment of the Black River in the sale of its fruits, is easier and less burdensome to the person concerned this fishery, and at the same moment as does need to from that port, without touching on the Rio de la Plata, to journey with her cargo to those of Spain.
The establishment of the Black River will sustain and prosper with the output of its fruits, and through them can be such fishing without the expense of maintaining other the smaller vessels that are needed for it.
The others that are more expensive and expenses, it is provided through their cargoes, may engage in conduct salt Puerto de San José, or Black River to the capital of Buenos Aires and Montevideo, and a same operations as an accessory, does this useful supply the province, its abundance crossing convenience and benefit to salt meats that are lost in its massive campaign by introducing this new market in Spain, Africa or other European Parages: for use only with the much of our military and prisons will release, and gets to avoid extractions money that attracts us to buy in the north, are to the benefit of the kingdom.
Stakeholders in whaling will take advantage of what you can pay them the first kind.
The Buenos Aires natural populations and their neighbors in the cattle MatAns to the collection of corambre have this new utility to increase their wages.
Owners can take perhaps by this means the costs of them free, and Black River are engaged in work of the salt out and driving to the pier, which is another great support to their livelihood.
For these media has to go take the population increase, and perhaps, seeing the fruit to be drawn from these new plantations, the Spanish extended their fisheries further south, and we discover and provide some comfort and provides ports for ships arriving sail to Lima and back to promote the establishment of San Julian, as experience has expressed its fruits can survive, and recognizing the Strait of Magellan the accuracy you need and deserve, where all paths ensure there are plenty of woods: circumstance credited adapted to people, without any evidence to the contrary cause the effect of populations was Sarmiento, who could not have other result with method, forms and regulations that attempt.
In Tierra del Fuego, which is composed of several islands, the year of 1765, or 1766, was lost ship called the Conception of Escurruchea, on the shores of one of them, about 14 miles the mouth of the Strait.
The crew was saved, made itself a pretty boat transport to transport their supplies to Buenos Aires, where the Governor reported to D.
Pedro Ceballos, that the Indians of this island had been very human and compassionate, helping to pass timber for ship building, and assisting them in all, with other features and those Parages news: all of which sent D.
Pedro Ceballos an exact relationship to the Court, and proposed establishing a colony on the island.
But, having been on the occasion that it was bought to the French the Falklands, had no effect this proposal.
That these stories offer many people hope to survive in those areas, and be very useful to trade, state and religion can not be doubted.
The latitude of 52 degrees and minutes, the pole, although very cold weather can not be compared with The situation in Sweden, Denmark and Russia, which, being over 70, not without grounds fertile and very abundant.
Love without the help of cattle, without the benefit of agriculture, without proof of the experiments, fix and improve the quality of land, with knowledge of weather to use the work, and the effect of its productions, is to shoot white eyes closed.
Desert climates vary by the competition of people and livestock that make a stable population.
With the fires, wings and heat of the living, little by little tuning the atmosphere, land and produces steam, which make it more benign and is attracted to another fertility.
These are the principles and secure foundations, which have to sustain and support a business so arduous, and some difficulties at the sight of all have graduated from impossible.
The Black River establishment and promotion of whaling should be the sole agent that over time has insensibly the raid and conquer.
On the day, which is committed to promoting this fishery for their own profit have to see required, the duration, to keep a job or temporary establishment in the port San Jose to repair his people from the weather, and preserve foodstuffs, utensils and effects.
If this trade to join the salt, which abounds there is year-round occupancy.
To They need oxen, and the fresh meat would be very helpful and inexpensive.
For all offers proportion those areas: promoting the raising of livestock, may abound over time in terms take some fruit of their hides and meat, because there will be easy and cheaper this trade, the abundance and excellent salt salt flats, and be of superior quality such meat to the fields of Montevideo and Buenos Aires, so their salty pastures.
This is another incentive, added to the background, a population ready to make that useful port for our ships sailing to the South Sea in arrivals, as the immediacy Black River and stock can be cooled as needed, to prosper in this way navigations, closing the door to the English why have easy entry into this river, and consequently in the whole kingdom of Peru, cutting off the progress they make, and can forward with the lights that we have taken these important discoveries in the fishing the whale, and all this at greater length I have explained to him that my Lord Vertiz the memorandum is dated October 13, to which I refer.
If our Spanish arrived to establish the trade with accessories that are proposed in terms which the Crown to produce the same or greater interest out of Portugal the island of Santa Catalina, by granting temporary licenses to companies established to this end may be the most effective and proportionate way to go recognizing the coast and Strait, and advancing stocks.
Optional only the real power to grant temporary or permanent license to use of these fisheries, as seas belonging to his dominions.
Eyes open knowledge the great practical value of this trade, will attract interest to their use.
This is the fruit that can take the crown, not by the interests that rotates Portugal, but by the survey and those populations most advanced Parages south she cares about or interested.
At that excels in the most useful, and we show port insurance for the shelter of the boats, offering people, these costs compénsesele the granting of any privilege or license to the fishery in the time it seems regular, formal contractual obligation and mortgages.
Unansele those graces which allows the real protection and sovereignty, and thus, without squandering the royal purse, get the These wastes to useful Rey domains, preparing a means to attract true knowledge many heathen souls occupy in the propagation of the faith and usefulness of State and provide different benefits to navigation and trade.
While the Magellan Strait and islands of Fire is important to us a true and accurate recognition by if you allow ports that provide us passage to the South Sea, no be neglected the Gulf of San Jorge, which is located at 45 degrees and minutes to look with the indifference that so far.
The recognition that in March 1780 did the pilots of the expedition which came to control D.
Antonio Viedma, to set in San Julian, only recognized with the launch of the packet boat San Sebastian, about 40 miles from the northern side, pulling the west of the gulf.
For and news reports are from practical Indians their surroundings, ensuring that to this course comes very close to the mountains, where some streams draining water sweet, and half the land to them, is the way of the Indians of San Julian to Tucamelel river, or of the Incarnation.
This is evidenced by the daily recognition Villarino Black River, which relates the journey they had just done to that river near those expressed Indians.
If the English recognize and take hold of the Gulf, would have input for him to Valdivia and other towns of the kingdom of Peru, and he could easily be established without Our news.
Abundant large number of whales, which place provides the fishing greater advantages than others.
These grounds, that to be true express their importance, encourage stakeholders in the fishery to its recognition, we must disabuse, and give a true view of the importance of the gulf, and communication that is feared.
The fact is that the Indians of those Parages transiting the Black River by the way you say, and from this river go to the borders of Buenos Aires.
All of these utilities will attract to us the survival and development of the population of Rio Black.
She has to shake hands at the port of San José with its fruits and cattle, and as scale, such aid must go to other towns, discovering the ways that pass the Indians, their watery, campaigns and mountains to the Straits, because of all there is news and has only missed the previous ministry, the heat required in such cases, that in time the two Super-mayors have been on their committees, have but recognized the principal of this continent.
The internment of trade for Valdivia, Chile, Mendoza and other Parages by the Black River, would be very useful for smaller gap compared to that of Buenos Aires, for the help of navigation, and because they have other amenities that can make softer asperities the road.
The more enemies opposed the establishment of the Black Rio admit the usefulness of this hospitalization, but are impossible, speaking with such courage and security, as if they had measured inch by inch on those roads, and had learned with a practical knowledge of navigation River.
No need sugeto whom he should confess the justice of instruction and superior talent, that supports and sustains the same impossibility, and they assure me it has become clear in a paper that gave the government greater, the more steps that I could not get.
Would be most useful These challenges were reciprocal and mutual knowledge of them: for the contentious and rational opposition is the discovery of the truth which is that crave and seek those who seek the wisdom.
If so many opinions to be taken to give ground with the establishments, that is, to deter the King and his Ministers of the importance of them, they had first gone to the Super-intendant, to inform its view and respond, then it would have had more news and knowledge that shed light the whole truth.
For these reasons, the aforementioned request and feel like paper, they are matters should not be booked as much mystery about sugetos they have earned the trust of King for the performance of this important commission, mostly when it seems has run between people who have no connection with these materials, which I notice those points most essential for this role, though confusing, of which I will to meet and demonstrate As I proposed.
Two are the most powerful objections to this individual seems to show, in which supports and maintains the grounds of their opposition.
The first, which made navigation difficult Villarino in recognition of Black River to the Catapuliché, where she arrived, she herself demonstrates its irrelevance to trade.
The second grade of impassable mountain ranges, from that place to Valdivia.
For the same operations, expressed in log Villarino, this individual demonstrates the Black River inaccessible in its navigation.
If we would have to be to that point, at that station, to that state in which they found and navigated the river Villarino, it is necessary to confess futility, but this varies with the time difference, and repeated tests over give a true view of the channels, reefs, waterfalls and river flows, showing how to overcome them with other aid, seems somehow strange that so vividly, without waiting for other than practical knowledge, is useless to condemn and fail for a case that both interest to our happiness.
Villarino navigation was made at the station opposite.
The forty-five days we stopped at the Choelechel, food waiting to be continued, we delayed the time, So when he arrived at the confluence with Diamond makes the Black River, had fallen water, in terms that caused the hardship of his voyage.
This lack discovered jumps and reefs, and their maturity was the greatest difficulty.
If he had come to this recognition for the month of July, which is the time that begin growing, and last until March, would be less difficult and softer, not so many breaks were discovered and reefs, and carcasses would not cause so vehement currents caused constriction of them, as with most water extends the river and avoids the momentum of its effects.
With the help of horses or mules (that could not fend Villarino, the risks that were expected of the Indians, who are the attractiveness of their invasions) was smoothed and facilitated navigation and throwing them to the towpath, falling all the work of the sailors on the strength and vigor of these animals, removing and opening the way for the banks of the river to do useful these operations.
To take a true knowledge of all this, it is necessary that the different experiences seriousness of the case he asks: We must not defer to the relationship of a hasty and obscure tentative, which may be misleading for many reasons.
Discoverer is characteristic of all ponder the difficulties and work that has prevailed to to assert their merit, and even without fail the sincerity and good faith, those first impressions in humans often cause different looks in proportion to the affection in which he is caught.
Would not it strange that he and his Villarino, the loneliness of those spot, lack of communication, and others perhaps, I produgesen an affection or passion hateful in his imagination soar to lofty mountains of difficulty accessible hills or ravines.
When they discovered the Black River, the first pilot of the royal fleet, D.
Manuel Brunel, and infantry lieutenant D.
Pedro Garcia, the San Antonio Zumaca Oliveyra, such was the impression they caused the bar, which retreated to the port of San José, and gave for impossible input.
Villarino was, and proved otherwise, and on the day it is so easy, windy the bow on board have entered the launches.
If we had been to the decision and inform sugetos those we would not have been a disappointment so clear.
Black river navigation presents is not impossible, but difficult: it is fitting to all principles, since the best facilities that we despise in the day, at its source would cost hard work and maturity.
The time and the practical demonstration of the importance of this post and walk, subsisting the establishment of the Black River, are to give light to start preparing and paving the horror, much difficulty as it appears, extending its upstream populations, which will serve to your comfort level, prepare more interest to trade; contain the audacity Indians in insults and robberies that experience the frontiers of Buenos Aires, will be more solid foundation on which to found their hopes of reducing these infidels inhabitants of the vast and fertile lands that make up the skirts of Huechuhuehuem and ranges, to Concepcion, Chile, whose industries benefit operations wool, ponchos and blankets that make the cultivation of agriculture in which we imitate, fixed population, but widely dispersed from their homes, we offer the most extensive and happy ideas for the exaltation of our holy faith, and prosperity of the State and the day may come that imitation we laugh at these apparent difficulties.
