The garage did not keep another vehicle that brought green rubber float of Segovia and only rolling when the owners, to get the summer, withdrew to his country house in the Valley Amblés.
The rest of the year was abandoned completely in the dark den.
The boy penetrated inside every day to catch the mysterious egg that a hen placed on guadamacil bed cushions. * * * * * At ten years old Ramiro seemed touched God.
His mother saw him penetrate, as a predestined, in the harshness and meditation.
Through an outer harbor sometimes heard him recite, in fierce passion, religious dirges like a flame burning in his lip, sometimes one appeared busy long time to copy the most notable of Jesus Christ and his glorious Mother, and observed I always drew the name of our Savior with gold ink and the blue characters of the Blessed Virgin.
I believe secured, and, seeming to follow her own careless holding that such closure in the face yellowing, ruled that the squire take out for a walk, from time to time.
Medrano was presented after noon, and children, the girls dress in costume black velvet shoes Virillos silver, purple hat, a ruff and a fresh sprat short, was to say goodbye to the mother.
She marked the tresses, with the comb, to side, according to the Spanish way, and pray a Hail making and Pater, dispatched him with a kiss.
So knowing Ramiro was the city with its suburbs and outlines.
It was a constant revelation For your eyes weary monotone picture of the mansion.
The pursuit of life invaded different suddenly his mind.
In addition, the walls beasts they spoke a language legendary and heroic and temples, with their grave graves, told the glories of man and the pride lineages.
As the squire kept frequent contact with some clergy of the parishes, I heard tell or discuss, often in the corridors of the sacristy, the age-old traditions of the city, and in this way, her retentive treasured wonderful stories, who had to serve after to entrance to be kept or entertaining of cheap bars and bakeries.
Ramiro advantage of knowing that catchy.
The old soldier was illustrated with the things themselves, deciphering to registration and marking so confidently the site of events.
She learned Ramiro the tragic loves of the famous knight dwells with Aja Nalvillos Galiana.
It was also squire who told him first, before the Gate of the Mala Ventura, history Avila sixty hostages, whose head was boiled in oil, King Alfonso the Battler; and the sacrifice of Blasco Ximeno arrogant, it was a challenge to his own field, King treacherous and faithless.
The famous feat of Ximena Blázquez was concerned about one of the huge towers of the Puerta de San Vicente, and Ramiro and never raised his eyes to the wall that did not remember the trick of that female in the absence of men, seeing the Moorish Almoravids reach, up to the battlements with women of the population covered all beards and hats getting intimidated in this manner the infidels, who left to escape the city, believing it well defended. * * * * * Avila Medrano had in many friendships, but his most generous fellow, whether they are try to drink in company with a boot of San Martin and to procure some doubloons in a pinch, was the Portuguese Diego Franco, Ringer main church, that having worked of paraires in Segovia, was later drummer in Bruges and Antwerp, where he brought his great fondness for bells.
Ramiro was a feast for each of the visits that used to do, on top of the towers, to that "bachelor clappers," as he called the squire.
After passing the threshold of the Church, Ramiro pulled a cord hidden behind the cover, and, almost instantly up there with a dizzying height for your child's eyes, looked out, through a hole in the ceiling, a tiny face of a woman or man.
Shortly thereafter, could hear the sound of heels on the inside of a large pillar to the right, the bolt creaked, and the panel, when opened, had the ringer, or his wife, carrying in one hand bunch of keys and the other a lantern.
Then began the climb through the gap in that column of the temple.
The steps were so high that Ramiro had to help with your hands.
Only, from time to time, the narrowness of a loophole left a ray of sunshine through the glass color and perfumed with incense.
The visit took place usually at the top of the truncated tower, under a shed roof, rested on each one Razorfen tables, where the couple raised a half-dozen pig, black as pitch.
Ramiro amused browse the mysteries of the roof or contemplate the city and the horizon, from that elevation which produced in all its be the whim of a flight of fancy.
Franco was wretched body.
His wife, Aldonza González, whom everyone called the Extremadura, was, however, graceful and vigorous.
She ran the two thicker bells, leaving him the Clarillo and bells.
Many times, having to take a ring of importance, the four climbed the tower.
The squire help, and Ramiro, though shaken to the core, enjoyed those horrific explosions that threatened to demolish the tower and throw himself to air like a straw in the whirlwind sound.
Aldonza, the enthusiasm of his task, showed All shims until the meat.
It was a female almost beautiful.
Its tender skin like cream, her lips red as a pepper Candeleda, but both her hair untamed as his outline for youth, denoting a natural masculine and impudent.
He drove to her husband as a slave, unloading on him too much vigor renewed in their blood pure air of the towers.
Ramiro looked askance.
Sometimes, when no one saw, weight and sleeping levantábale on a seat, tried to encourage him and make him laugh with her tickling and estrujaduras violent. * * * * * Holidays, the preferred squire spent in your own den, playing cards with friends.
When the child reached the point called his daughter Casilda, comely little girl that the slum charmed with her beauty, suggesting these abandoned infants of speaking of legends.
The mother had been a Spanish Amalfi stole the squire night, injuring the father and killing a brother, and, discovered two years later, preferred complete left on the rack rather than denounce.
Composed of two bedrooms with a den garden in the back of a shack behind San Pedro.
Despite the sweetness and beauty of Casilda, Ramiro was always with haughty coldness.
She heard every word flash of admiration.
Quitábale lime stains or dust from their clothes, every moment besábale hands.
When playing in the garden it was she who ran to bring the pebble to the sling or the stick of the improvised crossbow as he expected stiff and lordly.
However, once the leave, Ramiro joined his mouth with creature dressed in rags like a gypsy, and this mechanical movement came to wake him in the course of days, a strange delight, which reminded him dirty smack picked fruit on the ground.
V After living in Avila more than nine years, the only person who dared to don Inigo closer friendship was the knight Don Alonso Serrano Blázquez.
As their estates in the Valley-Amblés women were contiguous and had belonged to the same family as the Eagles, not long be known.
There was no nobility in the community most illustrious lineage than the Blázquez.
History strain that was illustrated higher deeds and famous love a book of chivalry.
Don Alonso descended, by male line, the champion Ximeno Blázquez, first Governor and Mayor of the city when it was resettled by Count Raymond of Burgundy.
Ximeno Blasco, on the challenge; Ximena Blázquez, the hats, and the famous Nalvillos, married to the default Aja Galiana, and almost as famous as the Cid, were their ancestors.
The dating of very old Council resolution that whenever horsemen leave the city, in service King, "had to be their leader and descendant of the noble champion Ximeno Blasco, the Crawler, and no other lineage.
Don Alonso could use the flag five alternating with white lilies in a field of silver scallops, or the rampant lions azure field.
The honors have always shined in his family.
His palace, inherited from his wife, stood toward the North, together with the wall of the city, according to immemorial usage of the best bloodlines.
One of the cubes there stood embattled at the bottom of the garden, and his defense had always corresponded to the Eagles.
The gentleman short lived part of the solar year, the court drew a powerful magnet.
In contrast, dumb and monastic existence Avila de los Santos, where he spent endless hours without listening another note of life that the ringing of a bell or the sound of a rooster, he exasperated the humor as a harsh captivity.
Outside of battle of Lepanto, in which, armed with broadsword wide Guzman, bravely batiose on the prow of a galley, receiving a musket ball in the shoulder and released in thigh, did not record another action in your life memorable.
Moped almost always in the palatial offices.
At eighteen years of age was a page to Ruy Gómez de Silva, and at thirty, gentleman King, who reminded him later for his behavior in the fleet, the habit of Calatrava.
He had studied at Salamanca, resided two years in Milan and three in Venice.
The memory of this city still deliriously exalted.
He liked to discuss things of art, and often referred to his talks with Tintoretto, whom he had known intimately.
Latin and Tuscan sweet tongue you were as familiar as their own language.
To be alone among his books before he grabbed the Metamorphoses, or liberated Jerusalem, which the rough Paul's letters.
Everyone knew that it had offered the council of the Cathedral to take Gothic at its expense the cover of the Apostles with a Greco-Roman peristyle.
Crates their firms were full of poetic essays in which he sang in the manner of Boscan and Garcilaso to Chloris and Galatea.
Taken to complete a translation of The Labyrinth of Love, trails glosses Petrarch's sonnets, and had in hand a happy imitation of Arcadia Sannazaro.
For him, that bleak and austere nature that surrounded him everywhere, to her hometown hemistich did not deserve.
The use galas, continued genuflection, the atmosphere of the courtroom and all the artificial convoluted set of feelings or feigned, anyone estoraque, anyone histrionic shaving of court life, compounded by the exquisite refinement "who", as Don Inigo, "The wickedness of foreign prudent provided the Spanish to the value afeminalles" had ended by lying to cover with fiber wrap the austere Castilian Don Alonso.
However, not to notice it took a stout heart and a sword was hidden beneath embroidery velvet sheath that ceremony, and that his honor was always so punctilious as could be in the heart or cheek resting on the San Pedro, with its pair of spurs on the calcaneus.
Only had time to get to him early, fine grains sensuality fascinating life of Italy threw over kingdoms, spreading the taste of the pomp and beautiful to live.
The great possessions served above all, he says, not to demean in winning and best able to show the high rank of encouragement.
He was raised and splendid condition.
I thought that above all human pound was a generous gesture and shiny, like the feather in his hat.
No sword used in court longer than his or lechuguilla most eminent and wider.
Milan had their brocade weaving and brocade according to old patterns of family wardrobe, and only jewelers of Florence were worthy of recording the onyx and carnelian for the stamp of her rings and pommel of his dagger.
Several years of youth were spent astounded the young wife of a director of Castile and liked it a lot in court that he had given two thousand crowns in gold for a stained Valenzuela in bleeding, the surgeon who introduced him.
Antonio Pérez always seemed written great love, and he had that friendship and valimiento to get a seat on the Council of Italy the first joint.
His love of things that specifies a rarity and exquisite quality of art was amply sincere, but he also knew that the cult that ostensibly put a border incomparable passion a lordly life, and using his early friends in Milan and Venice, began meet in your home a real treasure.
Objects struck at the gentleman's imagination more subtle were his glasses and rapture ivories.
These, cold, smooth and quasi golden provocábanle indescribable enthusiasm.
He gestures of true love to catch them in the headlights and bring them to light.
It seemed as though their oppressed hands with pale aristocratic fraternity that matter, where the sun's rays mimicked an internal flushing blood.
Towards the middle of the main block, on two long tables made of tiny mirrors, fountains, vases, bowls of Venice randomly interspersed his weakness almost incorporeal and a fine way reversed the silvered glass as a beautiful flowering pond.
Some of those objects prolonged the miracle of living centenarians.
Century pieces previous generation archetypes innumerable, had been embellished in masks and vermin unforeseen by the clip of Vistoria of Ballorino of Beroviero, in the great age visionary glassware.
Cloudy glasses, a glaucous tinge muddy water as the channel, which appeared to have taken all your fantasy.
Its management educated the better hand the ivories.
Don Alonso took them with infinite care, like a little smooth movement could take their lives.
A friend, a painter trained in Venice, who was called Greco, Tell them taught to look at them at night in a moonbeam.
Vague on the substance astral light reflecting shimmering phosphorescence.
So what if he had fallen into his pupil the drop of a filter, Alonso believed breathe the smell of the night on the water, saw squamous steles, aturquesadas whiteness of the palaces, the gloom of the small channels placed in the mystery.
Thus, by virtue of crystal vain, that gentleman, from his dry, dusty Castilla, you thought transported to the city of the lagoons, where she spent under the black or green mask, hours unforgettable. * * * * * Between Don and Don Inigo Alonso Serrano Blázquez formosa soon that friendship tight and flattering often bind to the discontented.
Cried one proud and prophetic in tone against the policy the monarch, who, while he was destroying the privileges of the nobility, tolerated Catholic kingdom in the shameful scourge of the Moors.
The other, looking fixedly at to the gates, and vile crimes related rewarded with great honors and rewards.
One day, retiring to a home visit, met with Ramiro Serrano Blázquez in the antechamber.
The child was sitting in a chair high, sculpted support.
His eyes seemed to look staring a painful image of his own brain.
Don Alonso, in his manly packaging, concealing a heart capable of deep tenderness he suddenly moist eyes as a woman.
Ramiro had always regarded with indifference; but now seeing him deep in that melancholy, he felt a strange pity that he could not explain.
Teaching made him the house, the garden walls, and he brought him to meet his daughter Beatrice, a beautiful girl of ten years, they received a large room fragrant, dark, sitting on a blue cushion, between the owners.
When the girl stood there, Ramiro came forward stretching out his arms, but she held with deep reverence.
He composed at the beginning of a piece of Mount and three hundred acres of land for planting, but due to the troubles of the Lord, had been eroding rapidly until reduced to a thick and narrow strip of scrubland meadow in the end of which stood the ruined farmhouse of the parents of Dona Brianda
