There was no more than a bed in the same style as mine, but large, calls marriage a crucifix and a wall benditera the headwall, a comfortable, two hangers, a washstand, a cow couch, two chairs and a rug.
The bed was already made, the floor swept and all things in order, a sign that my uncle had but I got up early.
I looked out an open window on the east wall next to a cupboard, and saw what I had already suspected: the black rocky place, mottled vegetation cracks wild and separated from the house through an alley slope, slippery slabs.
Returning to the dining room of the Hall, I found myself with my uncle who entered it by the front door.
In the light of day it seemed very different from its design what had seemed to artificial light.
The thin white skin of his face was a shade blue, and in her eyes and her mouth a very strong expression of longing.
However, his "humor" was the usual, and if otherwise dissimulation, was not known.
Was amazed to find myself up so early.
Come to see what was in me if I heard stirring at bed, to enter, in this case, to open up the balcony, if he wished, and if not, to have pleased to give me good morning.
I thanked him very much for your care, and after hugging him asked how he had spent the night and why so early. - As always, the son of the soul - contestóme, coughing and wheezing -.
And may God grant me the worst.
In good health, I woke up at dawn, since I have such bad sleep, I long much the sun, and everything and thus, too much time in bed.
It seemed that the chill of the early morning dew was not feeling good, and so I told him advising him to beware of him. - That will be with you - he answered with his usual jocular air -, accustomed to living between crystals, but among the montunos around here! ...
Because there is not so at home, like I said last night.
And if you have not thought about it, what piece of junk you thought? ...
And he took me in tow to the kitchen, where I found the woman gray, Tona and Chisco, sitting the lazy and having lunch with some fried cornbread.
Diéronme cheerful good morning, rising very polite, and only time I left my uncle to change with them a few words, because as soon as he opened a door near the table and on the same wall, began to call at his side.
Obeying him, I went to a wooden balcony and very much blown line, half of which fell the courtyard of the stables, which did not pass the center of this facade, and the other half outside.
Forming an angle with the mountain and leaving a gap between the two, ending, crowned ridges and peaks, which descended from the East brushing it home side with their Bardales.
Within this framework all that looked like a hooded colossi contradanza, extended a snip arable land in pieces, and boronales prairie, the first of a green velvety, and the latter with thatched note that gave them the dry stalks, not yet cut, freshly picked corn.
From my observation and this harvest, coming down the ramp toward mountains opposite, and very steep at the same time toward the river, a rocky weed bristly and crossed paths and Cambera communication with the people whose houses were, made a flock at the top of the harvest, with the church in the middle, it seemed, and it was in substance your pastor.
In all buildings, with façades lavaditas and doors and windows wide, I saw so many sides unhappy, sickly beings, mouth and wide-eyed, eager to air and light that they were missing.
And among those faces had a number of expressions, from the pathetic compassionate to the comic and the grotesque.
Was winning some of them take a handout, to soothe the anxieties of the stomach, waste or a hat to replace the crumbling chimney, and all of a handle to steady without rolling up the mountain, in the violent attitude that I saw them.
I was so embedded in this lineage of visions, that even I learned of the reports he was giving me everything my uncle on the main square.
We are here "on the dial or what? - I meant - I said with a laugh counterfeit celebrating the question of my uncle - that what are the main outputs ... - Ya, ya, and I thought I had soaked - he answered it, leaving the air suddenly roistering - occurrence but as yours is either a joke mayor, and I'm like ...
The bridge is here on the left, among those thickets.
If you follow the right, because you pull it mundane, will follow, and if you're happy with less, he crosses, and not the vera apartándote river, in no time you'll hit the Jocic at sea ...
Look, man, here you see me and over the years that I have, do not reach the fourth time I've been to Santander.
Then there was the royal road of which I speak, which is yesterday, and had to go looking further.
She, in a blue velvet chair and cloves gilded with wedding finery, fashionable then.
Campara really, because it was hard nice weekend ...
Look, man, little more than a month before he left Spain, a clean shot, the last thief Pepe's Bottles ...
The second time was a result of the twenty-three, with a relative of the promise, he wanted, like me, see how things were going in the world, after taringa who had taken the idiots of the "Pitita." Cuartajo, what gave it fulfilled ...
For the third yesterday, as they say, no more than pleased to know I own the road what it was of fierru had just premiered ...
And to count, then found out you do not pass twelve which I have left the valley for more than two leagues ...
And I assure you that never sleep out of it, dream JICE art, and all the food that is not my home, I have always known to stuffing without substance and I do not see these picachones overhead where I walk like I do not see that thing like no trace, and even the sea of I think a pozuca coast compared to the widths of the valley ...
Of houses in Ringle not speak to me, piece of junk!
because only in mind I'm short of breath and I ajoga hiccups ...
The truth, Marcelo ...
Every man for himself, and with each other.
And in this respective, of knowing you have in this valley there are people who fall for old without leaving him more beyond the running of "encourage" a dog with asthma.
As for the alleys is choice but to go climbing up the brambles ...
My uncle laughed at what he called my innocence, "with as much as I knew the world", and promising explaining what amazed me the time the request "on the ground" would not tell me more. - And in settlement - he concluded - what do you think of everything you've seen? ...
because I do not think miss anything you have not set eyes. - Yes, sir - I said to the point -: missing something I'm looking for them since I started looking this morning, and I find it anywhere. - And what else is it, man? - For a span of flat land. - Piece of junk! - Cried my uncle here, looking at me with astonishment painted on the eyes - how on earth Jaller's has what not? - Do not! - I cried in my turn. - No, man, no - he insisted with the utmost seriousness -.
I understood that you knew the running here as gospel. - And what that is that? - That there is in this whole valley plain Don Celso room. "Oístelo now? - Added laughing and staring me in the face with his little eyes of fox -.
And laughed again, and I laughed myself, but lip service, thus leaving both the balcony, we returned to the kitchen, lazy as I felt like eating breakfast that morning.
At that breakfast and lunch in the acquired two new data, which resulted from little account added to those already possessed: the bread was made in the tavern batches each midweek, and there was no other than corned beef, except Sunday, which killed a cow in the village.
Knew there was fresh, good and every day, more than milk and their preparations ...
precisely what was at odds with the likes of my palate and the my stomach juices.
A few nights I spent in my life so long, so sad and so unbearable restlessness, as of that day.
all that my strength built in Madrid in the heat of reckless enthusiasm and sentimental moments breaks down, and the cold reasoning that I had covered in hours of sanity to fend off the attacks of my uncle when I called him until by love of God, revived in my head with a push and a colorful force that frightened me.
Sucedíame then what the reckless that a false pride, a nervous start and poorly disguised vanity, descends to the bottom of a cliff.
Only three ways I could return to light and freedom in the world, or at the end and finishing of ... (How awful!
To trip over the course without having sought me with desire I hated), or the restoration of the poor guy, which is impossible at his age and what deadly ailment suffered, or I get him all to low at best, rolling luggage when I felt like it and go back to Madrid by the shortest route, which I thought was a dirty trick that could cost the life of the kindly octogenarian, for whom my presence in their house seemed to be the bread and the sun that nurtured him and cheered him.
That is, two with the camera, God knows how long, and not franquearía I never, repugnance of my consciousness.
If in the meantime had been in me a natural inclination, any ability of making even pleasurable to many men, who are villagers, country life, thank goodness, but for Unfortunately mine, all in all I was missing.
And all this had to be added to the winter with its cold, its fogs, its rains and its blizzards, was already hovering peaks above the contour and the house of my uncle ...
