And throwing his hat on a couch, began a dance step, getting away with child shrinks the arms of her lover.
A few minutes later regained his composure, the gesture was often serious in it from the beginning of hostilities.
He spoke of his mother, always sad, trying to hide their grief and animated by the hope of a letter from the child, spoke of the war, commenting recent actions under the rhetorical optimism of the official parties.
Thoroughly described the first flag taken from the enemy, like a suit of unprecedented elegance.
She had seen in a window of the Ministry of War.
Is softened by repeating stories of Belgian fugitives arrived at his hospital.
They were the only patients who had been attend so far.
Paris did not get injured even war by the government order sent from the front to the hospitals in the South.
No longer opposed by the resistance of the first day to the wishes of July.
Your nurse learning gave it a certain passivity.
Seemed to despise the attractions of the area, stripping them of the spiritual significance attributed to them until recently.
It gave no resistance without desire, with a tolerant smile, happy to be able to give a bit of happiness, which she did not participate.
His attention was focused on other concerns.
One afternoon, being in the bedroom of the study, felt the need to communicate some news that from the previous day filled his mind.
He jumped out of bed, looking through his clothes littering the handbag, which contained a letter.
I wanted to read it again, report to someone's content with dragging irresistible impulse to confession.
It was a letter his brother had sent from the Vosges.
She spoke at Laurier rather than himself.
Belonged to a different drummer, but included in the same division and had taken part in similar battles.
Proclaimed him the brother of Margaret, and with it all officers who had seen him do his duty quietly, braving death with as coolly as if he were in his factory, near Paris.
Risky as requested by the observer, sliding as close as possible to the enemy to monitor the accuracy of artillery fire, grinding your telephone instructions.
A German shell had demolished the house whose roof was hidden.
Laurier, to emerge unscathed from the rubble, reset your phone and went quietly to continue the same work in the branches of a nearby grove.
Its battery was discovered in an unfavorable match enemy planes had received the concentrated fire of the artillery in front.
In a few minutes rolled over all personnel: dead captain and several soldiers wounded officials and nearly all the servants of the pieces.
Laurier was only as the impassive head - so his comrades called him - and helped by the few gunners who remained standing, continued firing, under a rain of iron and fire, to cover the withdrawal of a battalion. "I have quoted twice in the order of the day - still reading Margarita -.
Living with Laurier had seen many times strength of character, fearlessness by his gentle exterior masked.
For somewhat warned instinct, making him fear the wrath of the husband in the early days of his infidelity.
He remembered the man's gesture to surprise her one night out of the house in July.
The memory of this respect Margarita woke up in a feeling of gratitude.
Such Once he had loved like no other man.
His eyes, with a lust for comparison, were set in Desnoyers, admiring his kindness youth.
The image of Laurier, heavy and vulgar, his memory came as a consolation.
It was true the officer interviewed by her in the station to fire his brother did not seem to her former husband.
But Margarita wanted to forget the lieutenant pale and had a sad look passed before his eyes, to remember only the concerned industrial profits and incapable of understanding what she called "the subtleties of a chic woman." Decidedly July was more alluring.
July always felt irritation at hearing this.
He came close to collapse with one hand mouth of her lover.
It was an insult place apart from other men.
Meanwhile, she, with the illogicality of his daze, he insisted on talking about Laurier, commenting their exploits. - Do not want, I have not ever wanted.
But we must recognize that provides some interest in his new existence.
I'm glad his exploits as if they were an old friend, a visit to my family which he had not seen in a long time ...
The poor deserve a better fate, have found a woman who was me, a fellow at the level of ambition ...
I tell you I feel sorry.
And the shame was so intense that his eyes moistened, waking up in the torture mistress jealousy.
From these interviews came Desnoyers moody and gloomy. - I suspect we're in a false position - said one morning to Argensola -, life is going to serna increasingly painful.
It is difficult to remain calm, following the very existence before, in the midst of a people who are bat.
The partner felt the same.
Also considered insufferable young alien existence Paris tossed in this war. - Should one go teaching roles at every moment for the police to be convinced that has not found a deserter.
In a subway car had to explain the other day that was Spanish to some girls who were surprised were not on the front ...
One of them, after learning my nationality, I simply asked why I volunteered ...
Since everyone was going to war, he I wanted to do the same.
I felt no fear of death: the only thing he was terrified servitude military uniform, mechanical obedience to trumpet the blind subordination to the heads.
Fight for it offered no difficulties, but freely or sending to others, because their reared character to everything that meant discipline.
Foreign groups Paris tried to organize each his legion of volunteers, and he also projected the own: a battalion of Spanish and Latin American, reserving, of course, the presidency organizing committee and then the commander of the body.
Had released advertisements in newspapers, place of registration, the study of the rue de la Pompe.
In ten days there were two volunteers: a clerk in the very cold summer, which required to be an officer because he wore morning dress, and a bartender to the first Spanish-language words stripped of his command refused to Argensola with the futile pretext of having been a soldier in his youth, while the other was just a painter.
Twenty Spanish battalions were initiated at the same time with equal success in different parts of Paris.
Each fan wanted to be boss the other, with the individualistic pride and disgust to the discipline's own race.
Finally, future leaders, lack of soldiers, seeking to register as simple volunteers ...
but in a French regiment. - I hope to see what makes the Garibaldi - Argensola said modestly -.
This made her name glorious warrior tolerable bondage.
But then hesitated would anyway that obey anyone in this body of volunteers, and he was rebellious to a obedience that was not preceded by long discussions ...
We seem to have fallen on another planet: our old skills are meaningless.
The man of refinement and complications spiritual has collapsed, who knows how many years ...
Now go to the surface as victor simple man of limited ideas, but firm, which knows how to obey.
He could tell, he had known the visibility and spend now as a stranger among the same people who admired him months earlier. - Your kingdom is over - Argensola said laughing -.
Nothing good is being a good boy.
I, with a uniform and a cross on his chest, will now expire in a romantic rivalry.
The only official makes dream in times of peace to the ladies from the provinces.
But we are at war, and all woman has awakened the enthusiasm they felt their remote ancestral grandmothers by the beast aggressive and strong ...
Large ladies complicated desires for months with subtleties psychological, military now admire the simplicity of the maid you are looking for the soldier line.
Uniform feel about the humble and servile enthusiasm of female animality inferior to the crests, manes and feathers of their male fighters.
There to follow the new course of time, or resign themselves to perish obscurely: the tango is dead.
And Desnoyers thought that, indeed, were two people on the margins of life.
This had jumped, changing the channel.
There was no place in the new existence for him poor painter of souls and for him, the hero of a frivolous life, which had reached five to seven p.m.
III Withdrawal The war had extended one of its tentacles to the avenue Victor Hugo.
It was a war deaf, in which the enemy, soft, shapeless, gelatinous, seemed to escape from the hands to resume a little further hostilities. - I have stuck at home to Germany - said Marcelo Desnoyers.
The presence of this woman was for him a source of regret and alarm.
Fortunately, the servants, the chauffeur, all the male servants were in the military.
The two Chinese received a warrant in a threatening tone.
Very careful when talking to other French maids, nor the slightest allusion to the nationality of the husband of Dona Elena and domicile family.
Doña Elena was Argentina ...
But despite the silence of the girls, don Marcelo feared a withdrawal of exalted patriotism, which was devoted to tireless fervor On the hunt for spies, and that the sister of his wife saw confined in a concentration camp suspicion of dealing with the enemy.
Instead of keeping a discreet silently introduced discord in the house with their views.
During the first days of the war remained locked in her room, meeting with family only when called to dinner.
With pursed lips and staring sat at the table, pretending not to hear verbal enthusiasm overflows Don Marcelo.
This described the departure of troops, moving scenes in streets and stations optimism commenting unable to question the first news of the war.
The bayonet was the secret of the French and the Germans felt a thrill of terror to its luster, slipping irretrievably.
The gun 75 is was accredited as a unique jewel.
The enemy artillery He feels very sorry, because if you casually on target, their shells were erupt ...
In addition, the victorious French troops had entered in Alsace: as were his various populations. - Now is not like in 70 - said, waving the fork or napkin waving .--.
Chichi nodded enthusiastically, while Dona Elena raised her eyes as if in silent protest to someone who was hidden in the ceiling, putting to witness so many mistakes and swearing.
Doña Luisa was going to look after the withdrawal of his room, believing in need of comfort to live out of his house. "The Romantic" worth it no longer silent about this sister I had always complied with their higher education.
And the poor lady was stunned by the story that he was making enormous forces of Germany, with all their authority wife Germanic a great patriot and mother a teacher almost famous.
The millions of men emerged to pour from his mouth, then thousands marched to the guns, mortars monstrous huge as towers.
And over these immense forces of destruction, a man reportedly worth alone an army that knew everything and could do anything, beautiful, smart and infallible as a god-emperor. - The French do not know what they are facing continued --- Dona Elena -.
It is a matter of a couple of weeks.
Desnoyers impressed by these prophecies could not hide his family.
Chichi are indignant at the gullibility of the mother and her aunt Germanism.
A rousing Belize had taken over the former 'Peoncita. " Oh, if women could go to war! ...
He saw a rider on a regiment of dragoons, charged the enemy as other Amazons hermosotas arrogant like her.
Then the skaters on their tastes predominated ride, and wanted to be a hunter Alpine 'Blue Devil' of sliding over long skates, rifle in the back and alpenstock in his right hand for the snowy slopes Vosges.
But the government despised women, and she could not get another entry in the war than to admire the uniform of her boyfriend René Lacour, become a soldier.
The son the senator offered a nice appearance.
Tall, blond, a little feminine delicacy reminiscent to the dead mother, René was a "soldier of sugar" in view of his girlfriend.
Chichi experienced some pride to go out into the street next to the warrior, had found that the uniform increased because of him.
But one disappointment was clouded by little and little joy.
His illustrious father, for fear that the war cut off forever the dynasty of the Lacour, precious to the state, he did add ancillary services to the military.
Thus, Lacour (son) would not leave Paris.
And while Chichi said this, I thought with envy of her friends whose boyfriends and brothers were officers.
They could go out into the street, escorted by a braid that attracted kepis the gaze of passers and greetings from the lower.
Whenever Dona Luisa, terrified by the predictions of his sister, sought to communicate their terror to the daughter, it stirred angry: - Aunt Lies! ...
As her husband is German, he sees everything like your wishes.
Dad know more, the father of René is better aware of things.
The war has made you crazy as your father.
The good lady was shocked to hear the explosion of his wild desires whenever memory was emperor.
The first German to be near her was sentenced to death.
Doña Luisa was terrified seeing brandishing the weapon in the mirror of her dresser.
In five minutes she would resolve global conflict. - Defend, Boche! - Putting on guard shouted, as he had seen done in childhood laborers to stay.
And with a knife from below upwards air threw the entrails Majestät.
Then echoing in his brain a acclamation huge sigh of millions of women relieved of the bloodiest nightmares thanks to her, it was Judith, Carlota Corday, a summary of all heroic females killed by doing good.
Elena, the fragments surprise these delusions of his niece, raised his eyes to heaven, henceforth refrain from communicating their views, which reserved for entire the mother.
The indignation of Don Marcelo took another form when his wife repeated the news his sister.
In the eastern frontier, the French armies had advanced within annexed Alsace and Lorraine. - But what about Belgium invaded? - Asked Dona Luisa -.
Desnoyers replied indignantly: - That is a betrayal of the Belgian ...
And a betrayal among decent people is worthless.
He said it in good faith, as if the war was a match where the traitor was disqualified and the impossibility of continuing their felonies.
Furthermore, the heroic resistance of Belgium inspired him absurd illusions.
For a few days in Liege saw a holy city with its walls was about to crash all the power Germanic.
Falling Liege, his unshakeable faith has found a new foothold.
Could go deeper into the Germans would then many managed to get out.
The delivery of Brussels did not produce anxiety.
The progress of Germans to the French border also caused him alarm.
In vain his sister, with a brevity malignant in the dining room was mentioning the progress of the invasion, referred vaguely the newspapers.
The Germans were already at the border. - So what? - Shouted Don Marcelo -.
Joffre them to step out.
Our armies were in the East, on the site that corresponded to the true frontier at the door of the house.
But this is a traitor and coward friends that instead of giving face comes from behind, jumping the walls of the corral, like thieves ...
The French are in Belgium and settle accounts with the Germans.
The crush, not to again disturb the peace of the world.
And to that damn subject stiff whiskers will post it in a cage at the Place de la Concorde.
Chichi, encouraged by parental claims, plunged to imagine a series of tortures and vengeful scorn as a complement of such exposure.
What most irritated Madame von Hartrott were allusions to the emperor.
In the first days of the war, his sister had caught her crying at cartoons in newspapers and certain blades sold in the streets. - A man so good ...
such a good parent!
The fault is not nothing.
And his reverence for the powerful did you consider the injuries against the admired character more strongly than if they were directed to his own family.
One night, while in the dining room, left her tragic silence.
Several sarcasm directed Desnoyers crowded against the hero tears in his eyes.
This served her tenderness to remember their children, who are undoubtedly in the army of invasion.
You forget that among those whose extermination ask are my children.
Desnoyers saw suddenly the gap between himself and the woman lodged at home.
His indignation overcame family considerations ...
But these children were aggressors and made wrong willingly.
He was only interested inspired other mothers who lived quietly smiling in the Belgian population had suddenly seen their children shot, run over her children, burning their homes.
Elena cried louder, as if this description of horrors meant a new insult for her
