Do the opponents have difficulty of spiny solution?
The number of responses made up for its solidity.
The most serious author A answered in this way, the famous B-so, the wise C-so, either three is enough, choose the best sound, with complete certainty that the Achilles adversaries have received the wound in the tendon.
This is not to convince, but to win; self-esteem is interested in the race, and known are the infinite resources of this evil agent.
Favoring bulges and exaggerates, what prejudice is diminished, defaced Toggle: good faith protest sometimes from the depths of the soul, but her voice is drowned and silenced as a word of peace in fierce combat.
Certainly not because they were distinguished by Christian fortitude.
The causes are those listed above, the man before inducing others into error, he deceives many times to himself.
It clings to a system, there is every reason to castellated which might favor, his mood is going to overheating as it is under attack, until the Finally, whatever the number and strength of opponents, seems to be saying to himself: "This is your place, it must defend: is better to die with glory than live in disgrace cowardice. " For this reason, when trying to convince others, we must carefully separate the Because the truth of the cause of self: mind on how to persuade the opponent that giving, nothing lost in reputation.
No ataqueis never clearly and insight talent, otherwise the battle will be formalized, the fight will be close, and even holding him under your feet and the sword in the throat, not to confess recabaréis up.
There are certain words of courtesy and deference at all to address the truth, in hesitating the adversary should not save, if you want to give her things gone before have come to nasty ends [14].
Reasoning. § I.
The worth of principles and rules of dialectics.
When the authors treated in this operation of understanding, to pile up a lot of rules direct, support in some axioms.
Not dispute the truth of these, but I doubt much to the usefulness of those is much as has been claimed.
In effect, it is undeniable things that are identified with a third identify themselves, that is two identify with each other, if one is other than a third, so shall also the other, that is affirmed or denied of a whole genus or species, must be affirmed or denied the individual content in them, and also is also very true that the rules of argumentation based on these principles are infallible.
But I have difficulty in the application, and I can not convince they are of great use in practice.
First, admit that these rules help to give some precision to the understanding which may serve in some cases to design more clearly, and attend to the defects involving a speech well that sometimes this advantage is offset to the disadvantages carried by the assumption that reasoning is known, because no rules are ignored reasoning
