Let's talk about his person, as to why I came.
Looked at one side to another, although no one was near the giant, and said feebly: - Gentleman, great dangers threatening it and come to ads, but I do not know, unfortunately, how can I defend them.
His friend Professor of Physics had been that morning to the most remote and deep his laboratory to trust a big secret.
The Father of the Masters had to call to know if he always lists the machine he used to give injections soporific Man-Mountain the night arrived in the country.
And as a physicist he told her yes, He then asked if it was possible to build in a few hours - in accordance with section Chemistry - the amount of poison required to give a shot at the giant, leaving scandalous died without signs of intoxication.
The teacher had answered that he could not take care of this service without an express order government, and the boss had promised for later, leaving the matter in that state. - The promise of a government order is false, gentleman - added Flimnap -.
I, on the desire to defend you, I'm now mixed in matters of politics and I am honored with the friendship of Gurdilo eloquent.
The government knows that the Tribune is interested in the man-mountain, and as feared avenging his word, they will ensure right to authorize such a crime.
Despite his confidence in the fear of the rulers, he doubted that Momar abandon his evil purposes. - You want death, gentleman, and if you can not organize what poison injection, seek other means.
These plans should help the vain Golbasto.
I do not believe that such Golbasto is a great poet, or even medium.
The account of his impotence almost made him mourn.
Influenced by his new friendship with Gurdilo could only see in this character's remedy their concerns. - If our government to occupy the great orator! ...
There will certainly be Ra-Ra and the insane that follow.
Women who lead us in this moment are our enemies, but we must recognize that any government ever considered as solid.
To think, my learned friend says Gurdilo, which project to hold a major exhibition, like years ago, which the gallery is a reminder that you lived.
Perhaps with reason of this universal feast obtain his pardon, and you can attend all our parties.
But the teacher suddenly left this optimistic dream.
He saw with his imagination Giant loved lying on the beach, lifeless as a corpse, green and decomposed meats by poison and hovering over his face, spiral funeral, thousands of crows. - Beware, gentleman - he said - anxiety, beware of all, think they can throw poison in their food.
Do not eat without having first been tested for food that rabble around him.
The giant laughter sound welcomed the latest recommendation.
He looked toward the fire heating the pot, around which were grouped accompanying take advantage of their distraction. - Above all, gentleman, be careful while you sleep.
They can also kill in his sleep.
Feared being caught in his return to the capital if he stopped to shut the night. - I must be prudent gentleman, the government may be watching me.
Note: you friend and friend of Gurdilo! ...
There are more than necessary to lock me in prison.
Count on my friend Professor of Physics will do nothing against you even if I send the government.
Lower the hand, gentleman, put me on the floor.
Expect that I think about you at all hours and worry about their fate.
Gillespie left the teacher in the sand, not to prolong the torment of his concern.
Then he saw him running, swinging his bulky form and retain their veils, the wind sea ??seemed to snatch.
Several days of work, tired and hungry, but would receive the giant further visits.
One evening, sitting in the sand, he saw a man leaping nimbly on one knee, then running along the thigh.
He was almost naked, like men condemned to work in a fabric wound to the kidneys for every garment and reliefs showing muscular body harmoniously formed.
Before you recognize with your eyes, felt the giant awoke in fraternal instinct inside to tell who he was. - Oh, Ra-Ra! - Said feebly -.
Ra-Ra was laid on the plateau of flesh and bone, and supporting his face in both hands, spoke the Gentleman-Mountain: - Popito will notify you a few days ago that some of these men around him planned to kill him.
Until yesterday I had only vague news about it, now I can give a specific warning.
I think is tomorrow when the coup attempt against you, gentleman.
As to the instigators crime, I have formed my belief and no one will abandon it.
Are Momar and Golbasto those who wish to exterminate them, and they have not been able to get the government to further their desires, avail themselves of this mob that surrounds you.
Ra-Ra kept talking, and some of his revelations came to corroborate that he had Indeed the teacher. - At first, these two characters projected to kill you by means of an injection poisonous.
I do not know how they intended to do, but I have no intention no doubt.
Wanted you appear dead one morning, here on the beach, and people believe in a death ordinary.
But as they have not been able to make this plan hypocritical revenge, now appeal murder.
I think the I try to hit tomorrow, but I advise you, however, will save tonight, because might well have advanced the date of his crime.
Ra-Ra took the head off the giant's hand with his eyes looking down groups of suspicious people. - Those who surround him, gentleman, are people of poor character, but I think that all they will intervene in the crime.
According to my information, the only ones who have taken some money to run and want to win the rest of the amount are those mustaches of Blefuscu, so proud to show its strength.
Not lose sight of, because in them is danger.
Gillespie refused to understand how many pygmies could kill in his sleep not having of an injection machine such as that he had spoken Flimnap. - My friends - said Ra-Ra - have guessed, thanks to some words of these men, how they intend to kill him in his sleep.
They will climb cautiously to the top of his chest, they have noted that you sleep on your back, stick your ear to the curve of her trunk, to guided by heart palpitations, and when they feel under their feet these beats, five or six of them wield enormous steel bar terribly sharp, nailing all at once into his flesh, until you pierce the heart and jump the gun around pipes blood.
Golbasto Momar and should have given them the bar, providing, in addition, lessons to strike the blow in the right place.
Even the two talked a long time.
The giant eventually forget their own affairs to Ra-Ra tell him his revolutionary plans and hopes in the next triumph.
Since the young man could not fix the date of the insurrection against the Republic of women.
Only needed to initiate movement in a distant state, the most favorable to use that discovery to be conquering the famous black rays.
This was going to happen from one moment to another, it might be the next day was perhaps and ignored and in the capital. - You have to you a few days of slavery, gentleman - said the young - and therefore would be unfortunate if you kill those evil taking advantage of the last moments of tyranny female ....
Ra-Ra could not extend much for this interview.
He feared that those who accompanied the giant been fixed on arrival.
Also thought I should take precautions to avoid catch him during his return.
A detachment of soldiers were camped on the beach near the port, to prevent onlookers approached the giant.
As seen near the moment of victory, was more cautious than before, and should avoid in his old audacity.
If discovered and arrested him last time, could be frustrated the rise of the men in the city, leaving unanswered the uprisings of other cities. - Are you going to do great things - went on to say - Who knows if it will be this evening when us women's revolt against tyranny and come to deliver! ...
It was Ra-Ra, and the giant, after eating, he lay in the sand, as every night.
He would not sleep, staying in a feigned calmness, his eyes closed and watching the comings and goings of some pygmies who had gone to bed yet.
At last the silence dream was spreading on the beach, and Gillespie, convinced that no attempt night nothing against him, he finally delivered the rest.
The next day, when I had stones at the end of the pier, he saw a man in a small boat, pretending to fish and always stood near his step, without panic from the swirling waters that opened in the legs by cutting huge loud.
Fisher's insistence eventually attract the attention of Gillespie.
Miró vertically pygmy's little boat, who stood beside one of his calves, and acknowledged to Ra-Ra.
This, standing with both hands around his mouth forming horn, merely to shout: - Going to be tonight, I know for sure ....
And now continue its work.
Do not talk.
Indeed, the giant's voice, sounding like thunder from above, had called the attention of all his guards and even the crews of warships evolved watching him in the open sea.
Continued their trip with a giant rock in each hand, and the fisherman, catching their oars, walked to the harbor.
Scarcely had he closed the evening, Gillespie was realizing, for certain preparations, that notice of Ra-Ra was true.
He saw how athletes and grumpy-looking mustachioed took to the back their bags, saying goodbye to his teammates.
The latter is sensed only by their gestures, but it really was.
The group of bullies turned to Blefuscu announcing his departure in the first flying machine to come out at dawn for the country.
Those who remaining could not hide their satisfaction at being free of thugs who abused both them.
Gillespie considered this sudden trip, prepared to show, as a certainty that the coup against him would be that night.
He lay on the beach, as usual, standing at a short distance from the fire, which began to diminish its flames.
Little by little they were withdrawing their sleeping companions behind the dunes or the shelter of Canar.
It took long hours of silence.
Darkness was cut from time to time by the rays of color that came from flying machines.
But this night these illuminations were less numerous, as if someone had influenced so that their guards will watch less.
During the long periods of darkness, palpitations of the fire filled the night of sudden flashes of fire, followed long and deep darkness.
Suddenly thought he heard the slightest whisper-like insects crawling around on the sand. - They're here - said mentally.
The shirt that covered his chest was stirred with a slight tug.
He was one of the assailants, the most agile of all, he had grabbed the tissue, climbing for him to get to the top of his chest.
From there he threw a rope down the waiting, and one after another up five men, with great caution, avoiding a touch too strong sliding on the giant chest curve.
The man-mountain was breathing loudly, his eyes could see only half open what was happening around him, albeit vaguely.
Distinguished them moving on dark sand from the beach some animals are more obscure.
No doubt they were fellow murderers, who stayed down for a signal in case of danger.
The six men who were on his chest pulled the rope with a regular effort prudent to avoid wakefulness.
He felt that what went up was not a living being, but something long and metallic rigidity. - The rod that want to nail in the heart - thought the giant.
Through his closed eyelids he saw how the group of men was unleashing deadly bar, putting it in a horizontal position.
Its size was double that height them.
The man who rose far lacked agility, his feet sinking heavily between the ribs of the giant, as if afraid fall.
Gillespie could not see well, but suspected it was a woman.
This woman, lying on his chest, he was dragged to his ear glued to the skin, serving as guide to the noisy pumping blood through the huge heart.
While some maintained it vertically others are rubbing their hands and spit on them, preparing for the great effort.
When all was ready, she raised an arm to signal, and the six rose while the great iron sharp point.
Just waiting for the voice of his boss to quit fall, but before this happens, a catastrophe the emptied, as if they had unleashed about them all cruel and blind forces of Nature, as if the mountains that closed the horizon had fallen on their heads, forming a cascade of earth and stones, as if the sea had left his bed lifting a single wave to sweep.
The giant had moved an arm to put the level of his neck and then made him a rough movement along the chest, which was emptied and he could roll find.
The six men, with their bar, as well as the mysterious woman who ran, darted through the air.
And this was not the worst thing for them, for the man-mountain was lifted then a jump and started kicking on the floor, chasing the black figures, who fled terrified throwing screaming in all directions.
Each kick given by the giant clouds lifted sand, and they always seemed to float a pygmy, arms and legs open as well as frogs, sometimes with head up, sometimes with the head down.
Wrath of the Colossus did not find a few moments to chase enemies.
The immediate reeds shook shaken by the fearful race of little men.
Gillespie was going to lie again in the sand, convinced that nobody would dare to attack and, when he felt something stirring beneath one of his feet.
It was something that twisted throwing soft squeals drowned, trapped by the sand and arch bridge were his shoes between the ground and the heel
