Came close to private Lancia always saw this magnanimous and funny man.
Retired three years ago, was to settle in his country, where he one only.
Nostalgia for Lancia, the gathering of Quiñones, and especially teasing Valero his colleague, prompted him to leave the Galician country to come back to live between lacienses.
Valero, promoted to chairman of the Board, more worn every day, more roistering and ceceoso, sits to the left of the hero.
Moro front is ideal for all inaccessible marriageable girls, whose tireless head easily supports twelve hours of sitting without dizziness or confusion whatsoever.
Of all the institutions created by men, the strongest, this is the most respectable, the triplet.
For his unwavering strength compares very well to the immutable laws of nature.
For Moro is so true that the sword is worth the rough, like the falling bodies follow a uniformly accelerated motion.
Y there in the dark depths of the camera sleeps in the same chair with his glorious panties Manin short green cloth coat and strong spiked shoes.
His hair is gray, almost white.
But this is not the worst for him.
What is truly sad is that people do not consider and as a fierce hunter aged in the fight with the bears of the mountains.
Manin was only one zampatortas.
Lancia also laugh at their exploits and you look like an old fool's mad and heraldic Mr.
Fernanda finally managed to evade the congratulations of his friends and went to sit in a corner section.
The hostility of the owners of the house she was impressed.
But this was not the main thing, though she do for believing.
The hidden reason that he was ashamed to confess to herself, it was Luis.
The warm greeting of his former boyfriend had awakened Suddenly all his memories, all his hopes, sorrows and joys of another time slept on the bottom of his heart like birds among the leaves of the tree.
Inner turmoil was intense, but nothing or very little was reflected by severe cold continent.
However, felt a strong shudder to listen very close to his ear these words: - What are you wearing beautiful, Fernanda!
He was so distracted that he did not notice that the count was sitting at his side.
Unwittingly hand was the site of the heart.
Made an effort and looked at his face intently. - No, some gray in his beard ...
The tremor of his voice contrasted with the apparent indifference that wanted to give his words.
The count was given to intense meditation outlined in against deep wrinkles.
Finally he said, striking up conversation again: - I seen you before coming here. - Where? - Affecting surprise she asked. - On the road.
I left this afternoon for a ride on horseback and I bumped into the chaise.
I knew you well. - Well I have not seen ...
I remember that there are two or three riders before reaching Lancia but I have not met any.
In saying this could not prevent a wave of crimson dyed them again her cheeks.
His eyes met those of Amalia, who rested upon them shining, sidewalks.
Contempláronse an instant.
Feline mouth Valencia contracted with a smile.
Fernanda wanted to correspond with another as false, but could not.
He turned back to the Count and talked of things indifferent, theater, music, travel plans.
However, it was more and more worried.
Was losing his poise and spoke mistakes, as if he wandered away from his thoughts.
Silent moments, struggling to say something, moved about his lips, but rather to articulate what I wanted, expressing something else, something trivial and ridiculous that he was embarrassed as he left them.
Fernanda watched him with attention, winning the serenity and calm that he lost quickly.
Appeared embedded in complete the conversation, describing his impressions of travel naturally expressing their views with the same indifference if not mediate between them than an old quiet friendship.
Be concluded by Luis taciturn.
The Count hesitated a moment, but encouraged by the gracious smile of his ex-girlfriend dared to articulate: - In me.
Fernanda looked at him in silence, mocking curiosity under which sparked a joy impossible to hide.
The count is up to the ears turned red, and probably would have given the scissors for not having uttered those two fatal monosyllables. - Well ...-- Young said rising from his chair .-- bye.
Good to see you good. - Listen! - What? - Said the step back to get away and had him posing in eyes smiling and malicious concluded to fascinate. - Sorry if my words have offended you.
This word, dropped lightly, as a joke, he turn around his heart; raised concerns of its existence continued for some time.
All Gayoso had lived under the baleful influence of this idea.
But the terror of her grandparents seemed dilate in spirit, tormenting, maddening.
Amalia needed to fight heroically to distract you for a short time of his scruples.
So now, when he made a sign for who approached, saw him rise from his chair and gloomy approached slowly as if to drive him.
She had too much talent and pride to show wound short conversation we had had with his former girlfriend.
Received him with the same smile, he led the floor with normal and affected lightness, and did not remember or name Fernanda.
But his pale lips contracted with courage every time I saw him turn his eyes toward it.
The circles are keenly interested in the creature.
Was receiving caresses each other and paying them with affectionate kisses goodbye. - Good night, Josephine .-- Until tomorrow, rich .-- Have you been good today? - Do you have bought your godmother wrist close your eyes?
The count looked with moist eyes, making incredible efforts to control his emotions.
The always felt his view was offered that girl.
When it was over once did to rub his face with his lips candid.
But Joseph, with that admirable instinct Children have to know who loves them, hung around his neck giving direct evidence affection.
Fernanda also watched with keen interest, with an intense curiosity that made him open very eyes.
Josephine was six, pearly complexion, the eyes of a sweet infinite blue and melancholy, something sad and sickly throughout his diminutive person.
The Count resemblance was obvious.
When she left him, eyes that collided with Fernando.
Josefina elegantly dressed.
The lords of the Quiñones lovingly raised as an adopted child.
For a long time this was the favorite topic of gossip Lancia.
A differential with keen interest the cost of your hats, it was said the number of toys that they bought; hacíanse calculations on the amount that would endow upon marriage.
But they had already exhausted of much comment.
Shot came only when some allusion was let out sharp, or news to hear some new discovery.
The girl went to a group where they were Maria Josefa, the maid of the tongue devastating and Manuel Antonio, beautiful long as the first rays of the morning. - Listen, Josefina, who do you want more, your sponsor or your sponsor? - He asked that. - A sponsor - said the girl without hesitation. - And who want more, do your sponsor or the count?
The laughter of the group welcomed this response.
They realized that the girl was lying.
Don Pedro was not the man to inspire affection lively one. - Well, I think the count is also your pa ...
And he left the group.
It was where I was Amalia stood over him crossing his arms over his chest and said with bow: - Godmother, the blessing.
The lady gave her hand, kissed the girl with respectful affection.
Then, holding it in their arms, kissed her forehead. - You rest, my child.
Go ask a blessing to your sponsor.
These practices are very pleased last time the master of Quiñones.
I do not want to cut my hair.
Well, I'll tell when we finish.
And pay more attention to their protests, dropping the buzz words, continued unperturbed task.
She was twenty-five years or more, extremely small, almost as small as Josephine hollow-eyed and surly, whom all feared servants of the house
