On several occasions left the field lines with orders to exterminate them, but the bandits as they fought in order, the pursuers were forced to back groups, returning battered and with some losses to the city.
Rare was the raid by bandits in the capital as they are not carried away some Newfoundland, returned a few days after it hit and the close-cropped head.
With women Newfoundland also did the same, and more.
One night Hallab the queen of the home delight the brotherhood, when suddenly presented the gang, struck his majesty with it and committed outrages, such that flying, flying and took a few days to pantheon.
The throne was vacant, there was none to covet it for fear of consequences; which resulted in the discrediting of the tribe and gave prominence to the other guilds, party enthusiasts Rey del Monte, who was known title with the black son of Salome breast, Captain phalanx of the damned.
To some popularity contributed to the King of Monte lies and truths about him were counted.
Only the rich were victims of their robberies, and its share of the spoils shared between the poor rider who had not exceeded, and as for his courage and achievements, referíanse of him so many stories that eventually the people began to look like a legendary figure.
So great was the terror that the famous bandit, even inspired, the most powerful landowners, to be free from attack, became his feudal lords, paying a monthly contribution in money and supplies to support the band.
In vain he sent the viceroy placed on the road posts with posters offering four thousand dollars by the head of the King of Mt.
And they spent months and years running, and convinced the authority that the use of force could not catch the very mischievous, always slipped away from the better prepared ambush, decided to resort to treachery.
Nothing more treacherous than love.
A jet Dalila promised to hand tied the new Samson and his top Philistines.
Overlooking bare details of interest, say that one night, being the King of Between the dense mountain forest, accompanied by his bribes and four or six of their own, Delilah took care of drunk, and time prearranged in the forest penetrated the soldiers.
El Rey del Monte awoke to the noise, jumped on his blunderbuss, aimed, and the gun did not fire.
Then, guessing instinctively that she had betrayed him, took his blunderbuss by the barrel and let it fall heavily upon the unfortunate, which collapsed with the skull crushed.
III Manuc THE PARLAMPÁN If there were men in Lima to vir bonus reputation or poor devil, that was undoubtedly the Mañuco black.
They called him the Parlampán because bullfighting puppet appeared dressed in the masquerade or parlampanes crew and desempeñábase with such wit that had conquered no small populachería.
One evening they showed in the ring taking in the body than the usual spirits, she picked the bull, and brought him on a stretcher to hospital.
Came the surgeon recognized the wound, shook his head muttering malorum, after the surgeon den went to the chaplain, and heard confessions of Mañuco.
Item, the authority found that honest Mañuco was the right arm Rey del Monte for domestic burglary.
IV WHERE YOU CAN SEE FOR EVERYTHING THERE IS A HOMER ACHILLES Vast was the crowd that occupied the Plaza Mayor of Lima in the morning of October 13, 1815.
Everyone wanted to meet a bandit who stole a labor of love, sharing with the poor that which robbed the rich.
El Rey del Monte and three of his companions were sentenced to death by hanging.
The wooden Jan fateful stood in the usual place, opposite the alley developer.
The viceroy Abascal, who had received several warnings that groups of people were preparing to build a mutiny to free the convicted, troops surrounded the square with real and civic militias.
The excitement did not happen in waves and snarls, and the murderer quietly filled Pancho Sales their duties.
The next day he sold the real price of a tawdry romance silver, which recounted Gongora an exaggerated the exploits of the hanging.
Eulogistic romance of sufficient merit to give an idea of ??this passage: More than king of the mountains Cid for his courage was tremendous, Luckily, in the fight, by generous manner; Roldan-skinned African Challenger thousand risk not paid bravery DIDES but he surrendered.
I Are multifarious and conflicting historical views on whether Pizarro knew or not write, and brainy and thorough chroniclers assert that even knew the round-Or.
This has been generalized the story that while Atahualpa in Cajamarca prison, one of the soldiers who guarding the nail wrote the word God.
The prisoner showed the letter to all visited him, and finding that all but Pizarro, successful run to decipher the signs, was from that moment unless the head of the conquest, and considered it inferior to last of the Spanish.
Deducted from this evil and passionate writers felt that Don Francisco hurt his pride, and that shrimp is so childish revenge of the Inca making slaughter.
Hard to believe that we who man with the cream of Spanish nobility, because bulls speared in the presence of Queen Juana and their court, acquiring for their gallantry and skills of chopping so enduring fame as that years later conquered by their exploits in Peru; hard is, again, imagine that would have been lazy to the point to ignore the alphabet, all the more as Pizarro but tough soldier, he learned to estimate and distinguished men of letters.
Furthermore, in the century the Emperor Charles V was neglected as well as in the previous instruction.
Was not sustained and that they can read and write was itself of second and friars, and began to cause laughter is the formula used by the Catholic Monarchs in the parchment that graced the nobles who were at the mercy of valets name, title much or more coveted than the habit of the orders of Santiago, Montesa, Alcantara and Calatrava.
However, Montesinos relates in his Annals of Peru in 1525, Pizarro set out to learn to read, that his effort was sterile, and contented just to learn to sign.
This Reíase Almagro, and added that sign without knowing how to read was the same as receiving a wound without being able to give.
Almagro Being Old is historically proven that point was unable to read.
What we do is for us no doubt, as it is for the illustrious Quintana, is that Don Francisco Pizarro was unable to write, much as the opinion of his contemporaries do not walk even at this point.
Pizarro documents I have seen in the Library of Lima, manuscripts section, have all the two headings.
In a few reads Franx º.
Picarro, and very few The Marquis.
In Stock National and the Chapter are also a number of these autographs.
Putting an end to the question whether or not to sign Pizarro knew I decide in the negative, and here is the conclusive reason for that I have: In the Archivo General de Indias, which was established in the Casa de Contratación in Seville there are several letters in which, as in the documents that we have in Lima, it is recognized until the least understood in paleography, the letter of the firm is sometimes the same hand the hangers or scribe who wrote the document body. "But if you doubt cupiese - adds a distinguished writer from Buenos Aires, Vicente Quesada, who in 1874 visited the Archives of the Indies - I've seen in a report, in which Pizarro declared as a witness, the clerk testifies that, after giving the statement, said with the signals used to do, while in other statements attesting witnesses that the sign of their presence. " II Don Francisco Pizarro was not Marquis of Marquis Atavillos or ponds, and a variety many writers call it.
There is no any official document that can be checked these securities, or the same Pizarro, the head and side orders, used another dictation than this: The Marquis.
In support of our belief, we cite the words of Gonzalo Pizarro when a prisoner Gasca, he rebuked him for his rebellion and ingratitude to the king, who both had distinguished and honored to Don Francisco - The grant that his majesty did to my brother was only the title Marquis name and without giving any state, if not tell me what it is.
The flag and arms of the Marquis Pizarro was: Shield made tablecloth: the first hand, in gold, black eagle, columns and water, and red, house of gold, train of eight wolves, gold, the second part, made in red cloth, gold castle with a crown and silver, red lion with an F, and below, in silver, red lion, in the bottom, silver field, eleven heads of Indians and the middle crowned; total border with chains and eight taps, gold the bell, Colonel Marquis.
In a letter dated October 10, 1537 Charles V sent to Pizarro, read these concepts that energize our claim: "Meanwhile you shall be called the Marquis, as I write it, that, not knowing the name that will land on allotment shall be given, not sent that title, "and as to the arrival of Vaca de Castro had not been identified by the crown lands and vassals who constitute the Marquis, it is clear that Don Francisco was but Marquis to dry, or without Marquis Marquis, as he said his brother Gonzalo.
We know that Pizarro had in Dona Angelina, daughter of Atahualpa, a child who is baptized with the name of Francisco, who died before age fifteen.
In Dona Ines Huaylas or Yupanqui, daughter of Manco Capac, had a daughter, Dona Francisca, who married in Spain in early married her uncle Hernando, and then Don Pedro Arias.
By royal charter, and if there was no marriage to Angelina or Dona Dona Ines, were declared legitimate children of Pizarro.
If this had been such a title of Marquis of Atavillos, habríanlo inherited their descendants.
It was almost a century later, in 1628, when Don Juan Fernando Pizarro, grandson of Dona Francisca, King won the title of Marquis of Conquest.
Piferrer, in Spanish Nobility, said that, according to genealogists, was very old and illustrious the lineage of Pizarro, that some of the distinguished name with Pelayo in Covadonga, and then their descendants dwelt in Aragón, Navarra and Extremadura.
He concludes stamping that weapons are lineage Pizarro "golden shield and gold pine cones together two wolves empinantes to it and two boards at the foot of the throne. " These genealogists paint them to invent and linked lineages.
III About Pizarro flag is also a mistake that I intend to disappear.
Sworn in 1821 the independence of Peru, the Cabildo de Lima became Generalissimo Jose San Martín a trade, by which the city made him the gift of the standard of Pizarro.
Shortly before his death in Boulogne, this great man of the American Revolution made a will, returning to Lima flattered flag.
Indeed, the trustees made formal delivery the precious relic to our representative in Paris, and he took care to refer to government Peru in a box very well equipped.
Was this in the days of the administration fleeting General Pezet, and we had a chance to see the classic banner placed in a rooms at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
In the fall of this government, 6 November 1865, the mob ransacked several offices of the palace, and disappeared flag, which perhaps was shattered by a rabid would imagine seeing in it proof of the slanders, then invented the party spirit to overthrow President Pezet, winner in the fields of Junín and Ayacucho, and he accused his political enemies of criminal collusion with Spain to bring back the country from the yoke of old metropolis.
Mobs do not respond or argue, and the more absurd is the species most readily accepted found.
The flag that we saw had no weapons of Spain, but which Charles V agreed to the city by royal decree of December 7, 1537
