It was the first warning.
If before the third had not killed the bull, it would be returned to the yard, leaving the sword under the weight of the greater disgrace.
Gallardo, as if awakened from their sleepwalking, terrified by this threat, he horizontal the sword and threw himself on the bull.
A lunge again, that did not penetrate into the body much of the beast.
It seemed that it would not fall anymore.
The futility of the last coup angered the public.
The whistles were deafening, forcing women to cover their ears.
Many brewing, throwing his body Later, as if to throw into the square.
Oranges fell in the sand, crusts pan, seat cushions, such as fast projectiles for the killer.
The lines of stentorian voices sun came out, roaring like that of a steam whistle, which seemed impossible were the product of a human throat.
Occasionally sounded a loud bell with a touch of alarm.
Near the bullpen, a large choir sang the dirge of the dead.
The cleanup Gallardo sweat with a handkerchief, looking all around, as if surprised at the injustice of the public, and being responsible for the bull that happened.
Again he threw himself to kill, and very few could see what he did, because he concealed layers open incessantly about him ...
The audience quieted down, ceasing to slapping, but continued shouting and whistling.
The animal was topped by the nailer, you pulled the sword, was engaged by the forehead to throw mules and dragged across the arena, leaving a wide strip of land packed, and trails of blood that hits the waiters deleted with rake and baskets Sandy.
Gallardo was hidden between the barriers, fleeing the offensive protest to raise his presence.
He remained there, tired and panting, with a sore leg, feeling of disappointment among the satisfaction of being free from danger.
Did not die on the horns of the beast ...
The output of the square was sad, when through the crowd that occupied the area around the circus of carriages and cars, long lines of trams.
Gallardo's car rolled with slow pace, not to run over spectators groups leaving the plaza.
They departed to the mules, but he recognized the sword seemed sorry for your kindness.
Gallardo sensed the movement of his lips tremendous injuries.
Passed by the car other carriages occupied by beautiful women with white blankets.
Some turned their heads, as not to see the bullfighter, others looked at him with eyes of pity heartbreaking.
The achicábase sword as if to go unnoticed, was behind the bulk the National, frowning and silent.
A group of boys began to whistle along the carriage.
Many who were standing sidewalk imitated them, believing their revenge and poverty that had forced them to stay an afternoon outside the square hoping to see something.
The news of the failure of Gallardo had circulated among them, and insulted him, happy to humiliate a man who earned enormous wealth.
The protest took the sword from his resigned silence. - Cursed be! ...
Do you have Costao the money? ...
An employee of the square came to her crying with temper.
Not coming through there, should find another door.
But a voice answered from out strongly and opened.
Came a man and a woman with white hat he Cordoba, she dressed in black and mantilla.
The man shook hands with the employee, leaving in it something that humanized his fierce gesture. - I conose Nah, you, do not ?...-- said the newcomer -.
I Gallardo wedge, and this lady is his wife.
Carmen looked around at the abandoned courtyard.
In the distance, behind the stout walls brick, hear the music and could feel the breath of the crowd, cut screams Rumors of enthusiasm and curiosity.
Crews were paraded before the president. - Where is it? - Nervously asked Carmen. - Where have you in this, woman? - Said the brother rudely -.
In fulfilling its obligasión PLASA ...
Carmen continued to look around her, but with some hesitation, as have repented got there.
The employee, moved by the handshake Antonio and the relationship of those two People with a famous matador, showed himself obliging.
If he wanted to await the completion lady the party could rely on the caretaker's house.
If you wanted to see the race, he would know put in a good place but do not carry cash.
Carmen shuddered with this proposition.
He had come to the square with an effort of will, and he regretted it.
He could not withstanding her husband in the ring.
He would wait there until it could more. - Take Dio! - Said with resignation the saddler -.
We quearemos, I do not know what to paint here in front of the riding center.
Since the day before Encarnacion's husband was behind her sister, suffering shocks and tears of an excited nervous fear.
I could not live in Seville.
Took about a week of insomnia, seeing horrific scenes in their imagination.
Her feminine instinct seemed to tell a great danger.
Needed to run alongside John.
I did not know for what purpose or what I could get on the trip, but longed to be with Gallardo, with the loving desire to create standing lessen the danger about your loved one.
Had learned from the newspapers of the great failure of John on Sunday earlier in the plaza in Madrid.
The last letter he had received from the vaguely implied. - No, no - he said briskly to his brother -.
I'm going to Madrid this afternoon.
If you quies me accompany, if not wishing to come, I'll go alone.
On too, not a word to Don Jose: I would clog the journey ...
During Along the way, Carmen gave shape to their desires.
Should retire, but immediately, otherwise it would perish.
It was necessary that this run was the last ...
Madrid came in time to prevent her husband torease afternoon.
He said the heart their presence was to prevent a disaster.
You say what you want John, but will aluego of the running.
The author does not play, we would go to the Carsel toos.
And the saddler imagined the most dramatic consequences if he persisted in his foolish Carmen idea presented to the husband, preventing it torease.
He looked already in prison as an accomplice to this act, which in its simplicity considered a crime.
This reflection tamed Carmen, causing them to surrender to the direction of his brother.
Was allowed lead to a hotel that he chose, and there was all the morning, lying on a sofa in his room, crying, as if by some misfortune give.
Carmen just had lunch, deaf to the praise that taxed his brother the chef the establishment.
The hotel was located near the Puerta del Sol, and reached her noise and movement of people going to the race.
No, I could not stay in this strange room while her husband risked his life.
He lacked the courage to bear the sight the show, but I wanted to feel close to him: he wanted to go to the plaza.
Where would plaza? ...
The important thing was to feel close, believing that this approach could influence the fate of Gallardo.
He had intended to attend the race; had left the hotel to buy a ticket, and now Carmen aguaba the party with its commitment go to the plaza. - But what are you doing there, baby?
Imagine, if Juaniyo yega to see you.
Discussed at length, but the woman objected to all your reasons the same answer persistent: - Do not come with me ...
He finished his brother to surrender, and a rental car went to the square, entering it Stables in the door.
The leather is remembered much of the circus and its dependencies after Gallardo accompanied one of his trips to Madrid for the spring run.
He and the staff showed themselves undecided and cranky woman with red eyes and sunken cheeks, still planted in the yard not knowing what to do ...
The employee had a brainstorm. - If the lady wants to go to the chapel ...
He had finished the parade of the crews.
On the door leading into the arena again some trotting horses.
Were the picks that did not round and withdrew from the arena to replace their colleagues when they reached the turn.
Tied to a ring the wall were lined up six jacos saddled the first they had to leave the arena to replace casualties.
Behind them, the waiting choppers entertained by evolving their horses.
A manager of the stables, riding a skittish horse and brave, made her gallop around the corral to fatigue, then delivering it to the boobies.
Coceaban the jacos, martyred by flies, pulling the ring as if he guessed the nearby danger.
The other horses trotted, inflamed by the spurs of the cavalry.
Carmen and her husband had to take shelter under the arcades, and finally accepted the wife of the bullfighter the invitation to go to chapel.
It was a safe and quiet, and there could do something of benefit to her husband.
When he was in the holy part of a dense atmosphere by respiration of the public who had witnessed the prayer of the bullfighters, Carmen fixed his eyes on the poverty of the altar.
Burning four lights at the Virgen de la Paloma, but she seemed to mean this tax.
The man scratched a temple. "Candles? "Candles? ...
In the personal property of the square did not think to find them.
But suddenly remembered the sisters of a matador, who brought candles where he was fighting.
Latest had just consumed, and should be stored in some corner of the chapel.
Candlesticks were missing, but the employee, human resources, brought a couple empty bottles, and entering in your neck of the candles, lit them, placing them next the other lights.
Carmen was kneeling, and the two men took advantage of her immobility to run the square, eager to witness the first sets of the race.
He was curious women in contemplation of the blur, red by the lights.
No Madonna knew this, but should be sweet and kind as that of Seville, to which many Sometimes he begged.
It was also the Virgin of the bullfighters, which listened to their prayers Last time, when danger was near the rough men pious sincerity.
On that ground was kneeling her husband many times.
Carmen is imagined to be witnessing the corrida invisible.
Guessed by the various intonations of the sounds of the square during the tragedy developed in the ring.
Sometimes it was a burst of angry shouting, accompanied whistling, others, thousands and thousands of voices shouting unintelligible words.
Suddenly sounded like a scream of terror, long, loud, seemed up to the sky, a exclamation frightened and panting, I did see thousands of heads stretched and pale with emotion following the bull run fast, I was going to reach a man ...
Extendíanse long periods of silence, a silence, the silence of the void, that sounded enlarged the buzzing of flies outputs of the stables, as if the huge circus was deserted, as if they had remained motionless and breathless fourteen thousand people sitting in the stands and Carmen were the only living thing that survived in her womb.
Suddenly he encouraged this silence with a loud crash and infinite, as if all the bricks of the square is release from its interlocking, giving each other.
It was a standing ovation that shook the circus.
In the courtyard immediately to the chapel sounded caning on skin of the wretched horses, cursing, hoofs and voices clash. "Who's playing?" New choppers were called to the plaza.
These noises uniéronse others closer.
Steps in the rooms sounded immediate doors were opened with a bang: the voices could be heard wheezing and several men march as if burdened by heavy weight. - It's nothing ...
Before the end of the run will be biting.
And a hoarse voice, weakened by pain, as if it came from deep in the lungs, groaning, sighing, with an accent reminiscent of Carmen their land: - Virgen de la Solea! ...
I think I've broken argo.
Carmen shuddered with horror.
His nose seemed sharpened with emotion between the sunken cheeks and pale.
He felt sick; feared collapse on the pavement with a syncope of terror.
Tried to pray again, isolated in prayer, not to hear the sounds outside, transmitted through the walls with a sound desperate.
But despite these purposes, came to his ear a dark water splash and the voices of some men, which should be physicians and nurses, encouraging the chopper.
Would fall if he was still slumped in that dark place moved by the echoes of pain.
I needed air, seeing the sun.
I thought felt in his bones the same punishment that the man was moaning unknown.
Blood everywhere, blood on the floor near a vat, where the water mingled with the red liquid.
Retirábanse the picks of the ring.
They made the sign for the fate of flags, and coming riders on their horses for blood, the skin torn and hanging their bellies the nasty Bandullos from the bowels into the air.
Desmontábanse riders, talking with animation of the incidents of the race.
Carmen was to stew alight with all the weight of his vigorous humanity, releasing a string of curses the "wise monkeys" who helped him awkwardly on his descent.
I'll see what that probesito Quie.
It was instant death to recover the belly position.
Until there came the sound of the invisible crowd.
Perhaps that touch marked the moment when her husband would stand in front of the beast.
I wanted to escape to escape this torment
