And this thrill was communicated to the young priest and down in the depths of his being.
What she felt in her soul was no pain, no agitation, or distress, was just cold, deadly cold gnawing bones.
She dared not lift and question the immensity as usual.
He was sure his response and feared.
When he reached the first houses in the suburbs of the worms had already closed the night.
Al pass one of the poorest and dirty got his attention the noise of blows and started screaming inside.
Fr Gil acknowledged in that black mass to a cleric.
Come to meet people. - Are you going to go without a hat? - It's true ...
But at that moment out of a window of the house and flew off his hat, falling in the middle of the road, that is, close to the clerics.
At the same time a rough voice said, accompanied by several interjections: - Take the tile thief.
Fr Norberto was quick to pick it up and started walking. - But you explain to me ...-- said the coadjutor with him and making efforts to keep step. - I'll explain ...
When they had gone to the worms, bran into the square and the streets of the Quadrant, D.
Norberto shortened a little step.
At the same time he lifted his hat slightly and saw had a hit in the forehead, where the blood started. - But this is an indignity!
Let's take part then the judge ... - Do not think about that, dear ...
The part of all would be lost, is would a scandal, and the girl, looking lost, would these people with the shawl.
Staying Here, I have hope that with a little skill will achieve that devil take it off and reduce the same mother ...
This is nothing - he said wiping the blood with his handkerchief .-- What I something else is hurt this shoulder ... - But what has given you more hits? - I was shaken a little sheepskin - answered innocently laughing .-- It is a matter of arnica and rest ...
For some time every day I invite to calluses ...
It seemed as if he had been relieved of the burden that was overwhelming.
He felt relaxed the deep melancholy that oppressed him all the way, and ran for his inexplicable be sweet shake well.
After questioning the nature move, after consultation with decrepit theology, the breath of Jesus had passed the order for his soul and had cooled.
X Two months later, P.
Gil rested sitting in his chair Poor gutta-percha.
Work of those days, especially the latter, he had surrendered.
It was a purely material where his spirit, troubled by heinous and horrible thoughts, was pleased, looking soothing to the inner turmoil that tormented him.
