Eighty and two years old on February 3, San Blas blessed, a day after the Candelaria, why what I wanted to live or what had been lost here?
A man who served the King twelve years that for forty-five had been stung thousands of thousands of tons of stone on these roads of God, and that was always well regarded and puntoso, had nothing to do and, more to entrust the gravedigger who put a lot of land, much land over, and pack it.
Pierced with grief upon hearing the reference Benina so much misfortune, whose sincerity could not put into question, said the old man to take her to where the child was ill, and soon was conducted to a room dark, on the ground floor Large house corridor, where they lived together, for the payment of three pesetas a month, average dozen beggars with their offspring.
Most of these complained bitterly at the time in Madrid, looking for the holy bitch.
Benina saw only an old, petiseca and sleepy, it seemed drunk, and a potbellied female, swollen, vinous, tight skin, like a corambre filled with the face Erysipelas, poorly wrapped in cloths of different colors.
because she never did things by halves.
At the time, and were remedied those unhappy and others were added, the smell induced across the bottom of the hive soon spread.
And the Lord had to reward his charity, department, among the beggars attended the banquet, a cripple with no legs, walking with arms, that he gave him true news of the lost order Almudena.
Moor slept in the homes of Ulpian, and he spent the day praying hard, and playing a guitar with two strings that Madrid had brought all this without leaving a section dunghill, which falls below the flea season, at the bridge looking towards Segovia.
There he was Benina slowly, because the person who guided journey was slow, as one who walks with the buttocks bound in soil, on hands, and these in two billets of wood.
By the way, the man from the waist upwards ventured some indications criticism of the Moor, and somewhat bizarre behavior.
He thought that was Almudena cleric in the land, wants to say, priest of Zancarrón, and in those days was the majometana penance of Lent, which consists of giving heels in the air, eat only bread and water, and moisten palms with saliva. "What the harp sings hoarse should be a matter of funerals there, because it sounds sad and mourn feel like hearing it.
He went on the despernado, and Benin, with his basket on his arm, crawling up the heap, not without difficulty, for he loose material that formed was the slope, slipped easily.
The Moroccan did not move, her face turned toward the sun, like a piece of meat would toasting.
Tirole the old one, two, three stones, until he got hit.
And that does not cost me a little work to find you! - B'nina! - Excitedly repeated the blind child, who was revealed in a flood of tears, and the shaking of hands and feet -.
You vinir sky. - No, son, no - said the good woman, and arrived with him, and giving slaps on shoulder -.
Mordechai did not answer this question, silenced them.
The blind man felt it with his hand trembling as if seeing it for the touch. "I came - said the beggar at the end - because I thought, a guess, you'd be starving. - Did not eat me ... - Do you do penance?
Me to be Sinai. - Where you are is in the clouds. - You vinir with angels, B'nina ...
vinir you with fire. - No, son, do not bring fire or necessary, that enough achicharradito're here.
You're being drier than a cod. - Micor ...
and burn like paix. - In straw you would become if I let you.
But do not leave, and now you eat and drink I bring in my basket. - Did not eat me ...
And then began to sing in Arabic a strange chant, accompanied with dry and rhythmic sounds that drew the two strings.
Benina heard this Cantici with true devotion, for though it told him nothing of the lyrics and guttural extremely rough, or the cadence of similarity are found here styles, it is that such music was an intense melancholy.
Constantly moving the blind head, as if to lead the words of her song to different parts of the sky, and set in Lays some vehemence and enthusiasm burning denoting that he was possessed. "Well, son, well - the old woman said when she finished singing -.
But the stomach does not tell you that he does not catechins with these songs, and that you like best good lean? - Eat your ...
more years of San Isidro, and this misery and this fascist! ".
No less inspired talking than singing, Almudena said, "You be the zucena com, branca ...
casmines roses and mouth you ...
the evening star thine eyes. - Mary!
I had not yet learned how beautiful I am. - Donzella tudas, envy of you had them ...
Regocijación Hiciéronte God hands.
Loan you angels with harp. - San Antonio blessed! ...
If you wish to create all those things you must do me a favor eat what you bring.
Listing provisions, believing that this will awaken the appetite, and as the final argument said: "If you insist on not eating, I get angry, and not be back again to see you.
Say goodbye to my mouth of roses and my eyes as the stars of heaven ...
And then you have to do everything that I command you: Come back to Madrid, and live in your house as soon as you lived. - If you marry me, this yes ...
If not married, no. - Do you eat or not eat?
Because I have not come here to waste time by lying sermons - said Benina displaying all the energy of her accent -.
If you insist on fasting, I'm going now. - Eat your ... - Both.
I come to you, and have lunch together. - Casar thou me? - Oh really heavy man!
I will be forced to give you a couple of punches ...
With these and other reasons persuaded him, and finally stopped the unfortunate to be squeamish food.
But he did not leave his subject, and in between bites, said: "I tigo Casar ...
terra Dirna mine ...
I married for arreligión yours if you want ...
Arreligión you marry for me, if you want it ...
Baptism jacieron confirencia me ladies ...
Put my name Joseph Marien Almudena ... - José María de la Almudena.
The voice of Adonai with forza, voice Adonai with jermosura.
Adonai's voice breaks the Alarza of Lebanon and as fixed Tsion unicorns ...
The voice of Adonai short flames, face D'desert tremble, tremble Farah Adonai Kader D'desert ...
The voice of Adonai face adoloriar deer ...
In his palace that tudas Grolier.
Adonai settled by the flood ...
Adonai bless her with peace puelbro ...».
Even continued reciting prayers in Hebrew fifteenth century Castilian, which from memory retained children, and respect Benina heard him, waiting to bring it ended to reality and subject to the common life.
They talked a while about the desirability of making to the Inn of Santa Casilda, but he seemed not willing to please extremely important, while not giving her word to accept his black formal hand.
He tried to explain the attraction that, in the state of his mind, he exerted on the crags and tailings in arid at that time was.
XXIX With all his wit and mischief could not convince the old Moroccan opportunity Madrid turning to the high. "I do not know - he said using all the arguments - I do not know how are you going to fix you to live in this mountain of your penance.
Because you do not ask, here one has to bring you the pea, except to me, and I, if now I have some money soon I'll be without a speck, and I will have to order it with shame.
But tell me one thing, son: Will there be money buried here? - Have mocha, mocha. - Well, son, see if you take it out, which in this case would not waste time.
I do not think me that you count potatoes or witchcraft that you've brought your land of infidels ...
No, no: there is no salvation for the poor, and that removing treasures, or bring it one the truckloads of precious stones, it seems to me that it is conversation. - If you marry me, this I find treasures mocha. - Well, well ...
Then get to work for the investigation of where the barrel filled money.
Almudena opposed it was so soon, but she insisted on retiring, the firm he spent on all occasions "Then it would be good for me to stay I'm here, put the sun and the air like a coat in the dryer Tanners!
The African Tragose this ball with childlike innocence, and promise and swear by her friend that day to see him again While he continued in that obligation of its bitter penance, let him go.
Was Benina above, preferring to go to the station, as output more comfortable and practical.
Back home, the first thing his wife was asked if he knew when he returned from Guadalajara D.
Romualdo, to which she replied that no news had yet to secure the return of sir.
Nothing occurred worthy of note that day, but quickly improved Ponte, putting very joyful with the visit of Obdulia, which spent four hours talking with him and his mom of fancy things, and Ronda events forty years earlier in the present era.
It should be noted also that he was undermining Benina money because the child ate there, and it was necessary to add stuffing hake regular, plus dates and pastries for dessert.
With the expense of those days, with the prodigality charitable Cambroneras, harsh which subtracted from the loan Pitusa after pressing debts paid off, they would reduce for hours to get into one, or so, the day of the third escape from the suburbs Toledo Bridge.
It is ascertained that thing that third trip he was met by the old man of the day above, who called Silverio, and went with him, formed in line of battle, others wretched inhabitants of those humble villages, leading interpreter despernado man, expressing with ease, as if this ability to compensate them by Nature horrible mutilation of his body.
And he went and said, on behalf of the guild of beggars who was present, the lady had to distribute its benefits to all without distinction, since all were equally creditors to the fruits of his immense charity.
He answered with naive simplicity Benina she had no fruit or anything that deal, and that was as poor as them.
While he and others remembered face and such modes, and could testify that was the same, the same as at the time his eyes were seeing and feeling with their hands.
Confirmed with one voice told by the octogenarian Silverio, which had to add that by saint was taken before the lady, and blessed to have this, respecting his disguise, and putting all their knees before it and worship it.
Benina answered cheerfully was so holy that she and her grandmother, and they looked what they said and turn from their grave error.
Indeed, there had been years ago, a lady very Nobleman, called Doña Guillermina Pacheco, beautiful heart, great spirit, which wandered in the world delivering gifts charity, and wore modest dress, without offending decency, revealing his modesty sovereign the class to which he belonged.
That most worthy lady was no longer living.
For being too good for the world, God took her to Heaven when we need done around here.
And although live, masters, How could it be confused with it, with the unhappy Benina?
A hundred leagues are known at this to a village woman, maid service.
If his suit very poor, full of patches and darned, for his broken sandals, they did not understand the difference between a cook and retired Marquis born a woman, because this dress could well mask other things there was no deception or mistake, for example, in speech.
Those who heard the word of Doña Wilhelmina, which was expressed as the angels, how could they be confused with who said things in ordinary language?
She was born in a town of Guadalajara, Parent tenants coming to Madrid to serve when he was only twenty years.
He read difficulty, and writing was so bad, I just put his name: Cassia Benina.
For this name, some wags its people made fun of her saying it was from Santa Rita.
Total: she was no saint, but very sinful, and had nothing to do with the Doña Wilhelmina of yore, that was already of God.
It was a poor as they were, living on alms and are governed as he could to support his family.
Tell them God made generous, yes; and if something had, and found that she needed people, could not wait to get rid all ...
Convinced they did not give the miserable, left hand of God, and reaching their own emaciated, with distressed voices calling to cassia Benin succor them.
Ragged and emaciated children joined the chorus, and clutches at the foot of the unhappy Pascuala, you cry for food, bread.
Sympathy with many misfortunes, was the old to the store, bought a dozen loaves high, and dividing into two, the split between the miserable crew.
The operation was complicated in the extreme, because they all rushed to her with fury, each would receive their share before anyone else, and someone tried to rip off two servings.
It would seem to be double those hands at the time of most contention, or leaving others underground.
Suffocated, the good woman had to buy more books, because two or three old women who did not touch anything put the outcry, and rattled the neighborhood with their discordant and plaintive cries
