Later in the day, again tried to tow the vessel Pince Holy Trinity, but with so much success as the previous night.
Everywhere we discovered ships scattered, mostly English, not without faults and ensuring all reach the coast for refuge.
The day passed between agony and hope, and we felt it was essential to transfer to an English ship to save us, we thought it possible to preserve ours.
However, the idea of ??being taken to Gibraltar as prisoners was terrible, but to me, for men punctilious and stubborn as my master, whose sufferings must have been unprecedented moral that day.
But these painful choices ceased in the afternoon, and the time it was unanimous the idea that if trasbordábamos not perish all in the ship, which was fifteen feet water in the hold.
Iriartea and Cisneros received this news with calm and serenity demonstrating that there were great difference between dying in one's home or being prisoners the strange.
Continuous act began the transfer to the dim light of dusk, which is not was easy, having precision of about three hundred wounded ship.
The crew sound consisted of about five hundred men were reduced figure to the 1115 individuals who composed before the fight.
Began abruptly with the boat transfer from Trinidad, and the Pince of three other vessels of the England squad.
God's preference for the wounded, but though Seeking to avoid discomfort, it was impossible to rise from her place without mortifying, and some shouted loudly demanded to be left quiet, preferring death to a travel raged their pain.
The rush did not give rise to compassion, and were driven the boats so mercilessly thrown into the sea as were the cold bodies of their comrades.
Iriartea commander and squad leader, Cisneros embarked on the boats of the officers English, and my master having been invited to enter in them, he resolutely refused, saying he wanted to be the last to leave the Trinity.
This did not stop opposite it faded in me waves of patriotism, which initially gave me some courage, and thought no more than save my life, and it was not as out for this noble purpose the stay aboard a sinking ship at times.
All work was abandoned, no more thought of the wounded, and many them, and taken on deck, crawled through it with delirious lost, looking for a gateway through which plunge into the sea.
Were the wounded left in the first battery, which, feeling inundated by water already invaded the place, cried for help I do not know if God or men.
They threw rushed to the boats, and this confusion in the darkness of the night, was hampering transfer.
One man, indifferent to such great danger, remained in the palace without addressing to what was happening around him, and walked concerned and thoughtful, as if those tables put your foot where they were not requested by the vast chasm.
I ran to him, terrified, and said: "Lord, that we are drowning!" D.
Alonso ignored me, and I still believe, if memory is unfaithful, that without leaving your uttered words so alien attitude to the situation like this: "Oh!
How are you going to laugh Paca when I come home after this great defeat. - Sir, the ship is sinking! "I cried again, not painting the danger, but asking gestures and voices.
My master looked at the sea, the boats, the men who, desperate and blind, rushed to them, and I looked with anxious eyes Martial, and called him with the full force of my lungs.
So it seems to me that I lost the feeling of what was happening, stunned me, my eyes clouded I do not know what happened.
To tell how I escaped, I can not cover but in very vague memories, images like a dream, that certainly took away terror knowledge.
I looks like a sailor approached D.
Alonso when I spoke, and seized him with his vigorous arms.
I felt myself transported, and when my clouded mind cleared a little, I I saw a boat lying on the knees of my master, who had my head between her hands with paternal affection.
Marcial grasped the tiller, the boat was crowded.
I looked up and saw four or five yards away to my right, the black side the ship, next to sink, for the gates that had not yet reached the water, leaving a faint light, the lamp lit at dusk, and still watched, guardian tireless the remains of the abandoned ship.
It also hurt my ears a few regrets leaving through the embrasures, were the poor wounded had been saved and were suspended over the abyss, while those allowed to look sad light, communicating with his eyes the anguish of their hearts.
It is also true that this atrocious martyrdom of all the purified guilt, and the mercy of God filled the whole area of ??the ship at the time of dive forever.
The boat moved away, I kept seeing that big blob, but I suspect it was my fantasy not my eyes, watching the Trinity in the dark of night, and even thought to distinguish in the black sky a big arm coming down to the surface of the water.
Was undoubtedly the image of my thoughts played by the senses. -XIII- The boat went ...
Darkness was so strong that we lost sight of other boats, and the lights of the ship vanished Pince behind the mist, as if a breath of been extinguished.
The waves were so thick, and the gale so hard that the boat was moving very little weak, and thanks to the skilful guidance did not capsize more than once.
All callábamos, and the more fixed a sad look at the site where supposed to be our companions left struggling at the moment with the terrible death agony.
Not end without making that journey, according to my custom, some reflections, is well I can venture to call philosophical.
Someone will laugh a philosopher of fourteen years, but I do not peatRich to teasing, and I have the audacity to write my thoughts here then.
Children also tend to think great things, and at that time, before that show what the brain, so it were not an idiot, could remain calm?
Well, in our boats were Spanish and English, though the greater the number of first, and was curious to see how fraternizing, invoking each other in the common danger, without remembering the previous day killed in horrific fight, more like beasts than men.
I looked at the British rowing as vigorously as ours, I watched in their faces the same signs of fear or hope, and above all, the expression saint's own sense of humanity and charity, which was the motive of each other.
This I see, is not proof that all men are brothers? ".
But suddenly came to cut these considerations, the idea of ??nationality, that system of islands that I had wrought, and then said, "But, this, that the islands have to want off each other a piece of land, it will spoil everything, and indeed in all must have very bad men, who are the ones who assembled the wars for private profit, either because they are ambitious and want to send, either because they are greedy and crave to be rich.
These bad guys are those who deceive others, all these wretches who will fight, and for that deception is complete, driving them to hate other nations sow discord promote envy, and here you have the result.
I'm sure - I added - that this can not last: two to one to bet that soon the men of such agencies islands have to convince you that make a great blunder arming terrible wars, and will a day that will embrace, not to be agreeing to all but one family. " So I thought.
After that I lived seventy years, and have not seen that day come.
Some of it seems to me that my master said, speaking softly in his ear, and D.
Alonso had to give a lesson in chivalry, for I heard him say: "We are prisoners, Marcial, we are prisoners." The worst thing is that we could see no ships.
The Pince had moved away from where he was, no light indicates the presence of a vessel enemy.
Finally, we saw one, and after a while the confused mass of a ship that ran the storm to windward, and appeared in the opposite direction to ours.
Some believed him French, others English, and Marcial said he was Spanish.
Forced the rowers, and not without we get to talk. "Ship ahoy!" Shouted ours.
At once replied in Spanish: "It is the San Agustín - Marcial said. - The St.
At once the British who were guarding disposed to lend assistance, and soon find us all safely on deck.
The Santa Ana, a ship of 112 guns, had also suffered great damage, although not as severe such as the Holy Trinity, and while it was dismasted in all its clubs and rudderless, the helmet was kept evil.
The Santa Ana lived eleven years after Trafalgar, and even would have lived longer if by lack of buoyancy would not have gone down in the bay of Havana in 1816.
Mandábalo, as I said, Lieutenant General Álava, head of the vanguard, which exchanged the order of battle, came to be in the rear.
You know that the column commanded by Collingwood addressed combat the rear, while Nelson went against the center.
The Santa Ana, covered only Fougueux by the French, had to fight with the Royal Sovereign and four British; despite the inequality of forces, both suffered one like the others, being Collingwood the first ship that was out of action, so it had to move Eurygalus the frigate.
Since then I brought comfort to see that the faces of all those people revealed the fear of impending death.
They were sad and quiet is worth bearing with gravity maturity and the embarrassment of being prisoners.
One detail I noticed also called my attention, was that British officers were guarding the ship, or by far so accommodating and kind as well played by Trinidad aboard.
On the contrary, of Santa Ana were the gentlemen very sullen and unfriendly, and mortified in excess of ours, exaggerating their own authority and making repairs to all with great impertinence.
This seemed to upset a lot to the crew captive, especially seamanship, and I even seem to notice alarming whispers that have not been very reassuring for the British if they had heard.
Moreover, I do not refer incidents of navigation that night, of sorts Navigation wandering aimlessly, at the mercy of the waves, without sail or rudder.
I would not, therefore, annoy my readers repeating facts already witnessed on board the Trinidad, and step to tell others entirely new that will surprise you as much as it surprised me.
I had lost my love to walk around the waist and bow castle, and so, since I found aboard the Santa Ana, I turned to my master in the chamber, where I could get some rest and feed, because of both was much needed.
There was, however, many wounded who was necessary to heal, and this occupation, very pleasant for me, I allowed all the rest that my overwhelmed body demanded.
Found myself engaged in putting D.
Alonso a bandage on his arm, when I felt a hand on my shoulder, I turned and faced with a tall, wrapped in luengo blue cloak, and soon, as usual, did not recognize him, but watching him with attention space of a few seconds, threw an exclamation of surprise: it was the young D.
Rafael Malespina, boyfriend of my mistress.
Alonso with love, and he sat next to us.
He was wounded in the hand, and so pale with fatigue and loss of blood, completely disfiguring emaciation face.
His presence in my mind was feeling very weird, and I must confess all, although some of them do little for me.
At some point experienced a joy watching someone who has had emerged unscathed from horrific fight, a moment later the old hatred that this subject inspired me woke up in my chest as pain that returns to haunt sleepy after a period of relief.
With shame I confess: I felt some regret to see him safe and sound; discharge but also tell me that that pain was a sensation as a momentary and fleeting lightning, black lightning true that obscured my soul, or rather, slight eclipse light of my consciousness, which soon shine with splendid clarity.
My heart always concluded and filled with goodness, I'd run to Vejer to say, "Miss Dona Rosa, your D.
Have aided and abetted the Neptune, French, and the San Ildefonso and San Justo, our, but the forces the enemy is doubled with the help of Dreadnoutgh, the Thunderer and Poliphemus, after which it was impossible any resistance.
