To tell you that no one ever knew what was, or what promissory notes maturing date! - True, sir, very true - Benina said sighing in anticipation of what D.
Carlos I would after that sermon. - Because you calculate ...
if I have in my old age a good run for me and my children, if I need a Mass for the repose of the soul of my dear wife, it is because I always carried with business method and clarity of my house.
Today, retired from trade, took up the accounting of my personal expenses and do not sleep without going all the notes to the agenda, and then in the ratitos free, what happened to the Mayor.
See you, see it to be convinced - added tremor scoring more negative -.
What I want is that Frances could take this lesson.
And I tell the lady to take stock, to take everything apuntación, which enters as what comes out.
But she, that is no child, can not apencar by the good habit.
But it is an angel, sir, and we should not notice if it points or no points for rescue. - Never too late to enter the ring, so to speak.
I assure you that if there Francisca seen even intentions or desire to keep their accounts in order, would have borrow ...
provide no, he would have provided means to get to leveling.
But it is a head screwdriver, you agree with me that is a head screwdriver. - Yes, sir, I agree. - And it occurred to me ...
occurred to me that the best gift I can do to that this is unfortunate. " Saying, D.
It was an agenda. "See you - good lord said flipping through the book -: here are all the days of the week.
Note well: on one side, the column should be, to another, that of Haber.
For what it costs to be showing work here what is spent, and this other party to enter? - But if the lady did not enter anything. - Candy! - Trujillo said slapping the book -.
Something will, because her little consumer you are doing, and any amount that consumption, long or short, small or large, should have.
And what you take out of charity, why not sign up?
Benina looked between angry and pitied.
But the anger could pity, and there was a moment, a second no more, they stopped short of taking the books and prints in the head Mr.
Containing his anger, and for the accounting monomaniacal not I met him, he said with a forced smile: "So the Lord says to us bitches give to the poor of San Sebastian. - Day by day - the old man proudly replied, shaking his head lower -.
And I can tell you, if you want to know, what I have in three months, six in one year. - No, do not bother, sir - Benina said, feeling again wanted to give a fillip -.
The lady was so grateful, and I also.
Offered take a firm, make an account, or sign aiming a household name not to forget ...
You take this pen, which is sharp, and take it too, and when you wear the tip, it takes you to the kitchen knife. " And all these, D.
Seeing him move his lips to keep talking, and take hand the key in the drawer on the left, Benin felt great joy. "There can be no prosperity without administration - said D.
Carlos, opening the drawer and looking into it -.
So rot you all the money you save, and you become pus inside the body for busting, wallet of avarice. - Take your book and pencil, and take it very carefully ...
will not get lost on the road.
not leak or a verb. - Well.
And was watching the rest of many days, meet many needs, cover some mouths, living, breathing, give hand to request humiliating and punishment of searching by means so tiring.
The poor woman saw heaven opened, and the hole dozen pesos, beautiful compendium of happiness in those days. "Twelve hard - repeated D.
Carlos coins from hand to hand - but not the I in all, because it would encourage waste: they are assigned ...».
Benin fell off the wings of the heart. "If they are given, this time tomorrow and would not have a penny.
I point out two dollars to month, and every day 24 can you pick them up until they reach six months and last September I'll see if I should increase or not the assignment.
That depends, mind you, for me to know, concerning if given or not given, if no order or follow the ...
Beware of chaos. - Well, sir - humbly said Benin, thinking that he has had more satisfied, and take what was given, without getting into issues with the eccentric and mean old man -.
I I answer that will take the notes to ministry, and we were not leak or a loose thread ...
Carlos, after scoring, enjoying it a lot, the amount paid, dismissed Benina with a gesture, and moving cape and hat pulled down again, turn out not box but solemn days, he prepared to leave and will undertake safe and secure devotions walk that day that began and ended in Montserrat in the Sacramental San Justo.
XII "The démontrer old - Benina Sena was said, getting a good walk in the streets of Urosas - can not do more than what the natural demand.
Válgate God, when strange things Our Lord in the breeding of plants and animals that, more rare in that makes people.
Not just a view truths that seem to lie ...
In short, some are worse than the D.
Carlos, that after giving something, even if the expense and apuntación ...
There are worse and worse as ...
neither point nor do they ...
The story is that with these two hard I can not fix the day because Almudena would like to return to his, which is good to have him speak.
Bad days will come, and he will ...
I have twenty real, which I shall make a report to the girl, who is perishing, and the rest for lunch today, y. ..
Finally, for I have to say it lies at Doña Paca, God lights, as always, and we're pulling.
A Almudena see if I meet along the way, this is the time to get him to church.
You see that I meet. - Amri, have no hurry. - I owe you nothing ...
Tigo invite. " Benina nodded to treat, and complained bitterly after a while the two sit-in coffee economic taking two separate glasses for ten cents.
The place was a tavern retouched, with ridiculous between village and manor elegance, gold loud, the walls of marine and pintorreadas landscapes fetid atmosphere and mixed parish and sellers pobretería Rastro, loquacious indolent, some clinging to the newspapers, and other listening to the reading, all very comfortable at the bustling wander among spit, smoke and smells bad spirits snuff.
Solos in Benin and the Moroccan table, they chatted of other things: the blind man told the mischief your roommate and her interview with D.
Carlos, and the ridiculous gift from ledger and the two hard month.
Of wealth, according to public voice, treasured Trujillo (thirty-four houses, the sea papelorios government money, a ton of thousands of thousands in the bank), talked extensively, he ran to consider, eg, the number of poor people who could be happy with all that dosh, that D.
Carlos was coming as wide as deducting a portion for their children, who should possess natural, so apañarían others so many who walk through the streets of God barking from hunger.
But as they were not to fix it to your liking, more aware they had not thought such a thing, and sought each his crust of bread as I could, until death came and then God give everyone his due.
Finally, with extraordinary seriousness and tone of conviction deep, Almudena told her friend that all the big bucks D.
Carlos can be mine?
You're crazy, Almudenilla. - Tudo yours ...
If you do not believe me, you and see Priebe. - Vuélvemelo to say that all the money in D.
Carlos can be mine, when? - When you want. - I believe if you tell me how to be that miracle. - My learned how ...
Dicir you secret. - And if you can make the whole flow of that old fool, a guess, becomes another person, why should you settle for misery, why do not you take it for you? ".
Almudena replied to this that the person who made the miracle, whose secret he possessed, had of a view.
And the miracle was safe, by the blessed light, and if she hesitated, he had no to prove, with time everything he said.
Benina was always something superstitious, and I used to believe many supernatural stories have heard, well, misery aroused in her the respect of improbable and wonderful things, and although he had not seen any miracles, he hoped to see the best day.
A little superstition a lot of anxiety phenomena fantastic and never seen, and just as much curiosity, prompted to ask the Moroccan specific explanations of their science or magic, as this had to be sure.
Then said the blind man was all about art and know how to ask for what that we wanted to be called Samdai. "Who is that gentleman? - King of baixo terra. - How?
What religion do you have? - Be eibrío. - Oh dear - Benina said, he had not understood the term -. "And that you call him King, come and go? - And give you Tuda to ask him. - Will you give me all that you ask? - Sigur. " Almudena profound conviction that he showed the unhappy effect on women, who, after a pause to interrogate the dead eyes of his friend and his shiny yellow forehead, surrounded by black hair, jumped saying "And what is done to call it? - I say you. - Did not do anything wrong with me? - Naida. - Do not condemn me, nor do I feel sick, nor do I catch the devils? - No. - Then go saying, but do not cheat, do not cheat, I say. - N 'winning is not you ... - Can we do now? - No: hacirlo at twelve o'clock at night. - Do you have to be at that time? - Sigur, sigur ... - And how do I get out of the house at midnight? ...
Amos, leave it to me nonsense.
But you buy paliabra you without speaking. - I go silent. - Change you ...
Well then: I buy my clay lamp without a word, then ...».
Almudena ordered after he had to find a clay pot with seven holes, with seven nothing more, all without speaking, because if he was not worth.
And so was the person, without distraction, without neglecting, watching smoke rise benzoin and watching the light of the seven holes, until the twelve ... "At midnight! - Repeated Benina startled -.
How is it possible that this man, no more than you cirimonias told me to give me what is now Don Carlos Trujillo? - Seeing you, if you wanted. - But with so requesito, if one is neglected a little, or a mistake in one word mental prayer ... - Have you mocha care. - What about prayer? - I teach you; dicir you: Shema Israel Adonai Adonai Elohim Ishatar ... - Hush, hush, in life I say that unequivocally.
As net Castilian is not you miss me ...
And I assure you that I have these sorts of jitters from witchcraft ...
If true, how nice, take her to that of D.
zorrocloco Carlos all your money ...
masters half it was, for distribution among many poor ones who die from hunger ...
If could be tested, buying pots and Palitroques without speaking, then ...
But no, no ...
Also say that sometimes happen phenomena things, and go through the air and calling spirits, eg, the souls, looking at what we do and listening to us as we speak.
And another: what a dream, what is?
Well real things of this world, who come to this ...
But me, what can I say, I doubt that much money to give, without further ado.
That to help the poor, a guess, is quite a rich half a million, or half half million, to pass, but many, tantismas bags for us ...
Amos, tell when Nuncio, here we do not buy those potatoes ...
I I'm not saying it is not possible ...
and if I knew how to do the test, would, a thousand pairs ...
Tell me again what the recipe is to buy one without talking ...» .
