Finally, after long efforts, the picture passed the arc.
The alleged weakness of the government had turned to unwavering firmness.
Some began to desert, parading through the streets of Milan and the square of San Miguel.
The portrait rested ground and moved back and forth, unsure in the hands of its bearers.
They spoke: but all was useless: people began to recede, some screaming, and there were also those who wanted to resist the troops.
He spoke well, no doubt: big cheers welcomed his words, but the constant jostling, the cries of the downtrodden and crushed not allow one to express relief.
At best, those who in the arc discussed with the authorities, fell to see that the troops resisted.
He continued his invective, but the continued exiting the not to give to people in their efforts to verify the event.
He was pale, panting, and every word was like a whip that encouraged the crowd to move forward.
As the troops advanced clearing the square, and some were so bold, that before horses resisted and shouted apostrophizing Morillo and his people. - To those who cry! - Said the commander of the picket.
Arremolinóse the crowd.
Many ran to escape.
Others took turns, carried by the wave, or remained troubled, not knowing what to do.
Lazarus was silent. - Who cried? - Captain said, - To those who cry.
Lazarus tried to flee, but the strong arm of a soldier stopped him strongly. - Seize the screaming.
Lazarus went from a strong hand to another very strong.
Just realized that he had on.
And it was well obeyed, because the crowd was quickly disbanded.
The picture was shattered in the middle of the square, the troops took all the entries.
CHAPTER XIII # Do not get the expected arrival of an unwelcome .--. # Of all the procedures that the spirit used to torment himself, the most terrible is expected.
Seems to be easily resolved not to wait, divert the imagination of the thing hoped for, and live by only one life at a time time, without that painful aspiration for the future that unsettles the self, leading him out of the center.
When you expect what is to come times are centuries, when what should have been expected to arrive, flying hours and seconds.
Clara was at the time of the ten with the soul in suspense, trembling and attentive, full of restlessness and anxiety.
Spend ten, and the traveler is not, the clock flies eleven to twelve, and twelve to one.
Pascuala was very afraid, because the noise of people in the street was increased every hour.
The two were sitting in the room interior, and did not say any thing, nor the maid had those tales of nymphs and little dragon, who had learned in his village, and the orphan was laughing with the booming and natural simplicity of his character.
Both were very quiet, looked anxiously when some noise is felt on the stairs and make sure that was not what I waited, fell in his despondency one indifferent, the other on her calmly, melancholy and hidden agitation.
Tomorrow will come. "But instead of doing this logical reasoning, it is generally thought is this: "Do not you come?
For it is dead: killed him." Then the night contributes to this torment the night, which gives to every horrible ways, as to material things than to the visions.
Clara, who had failed or could not sleep, never ceased to receive reports, bumps, blood, darkness, suddenly opposed to a large light that shines horrors.
Da fever that situation.
Feverish impatience creeps into the blood that stirs and circulates as if the speed of its march accelerate the arrival of what is expected.
The disappointment of our desire is more terrible, because it is slow, with no limits.
That night and the loneliness seems to have no end in sight.
I wanted to get out and run, asking you all for the unfortunate young man.
He opened the balcony, looked into the street, thinking that I would see him pass, and considered to all passersby.
Then he noticed a person who sets the corner, looking at her tenacity.
Confident that he was not turned away, and did not care more of that person.
Closed the balcony, because he felt fatigue and many irresistible urge to sleep.
He went to his room and sitting in a chair, rested his head on the bed.
But instead of sleep began to ponder with such as delirium and agitation overnight.
Then there came Pascuala coming from the street.
Well I have not noticed. - Did not you saw the other day here ...
At that moment in his pocket rang Pascuala the pesetas that the military had given him.
Then he felt footsteps on the stairs and the bell sounded faintly. - Is he - said Alcarria.
You are the one who came the other day with him.
My entry was unique, but I'm not a thief or a murderer.
I come as a friend, bring peace and friendship.
Do not be afraid, Clara.
I come as a friend.
And we know of a single day when I came here to this poor guy holding. - Oh!
and can now come - said Clara alarmed.
I do not know him I do not care all that I said.
If he comes .... - The last thing I care about is that old - he answered .-- Before the military was interested a little.
You thought it was relative, perhaps her husband.
But then I know that is a petty tyrant who lives to torment a poor orphan, who dies giving melancholy enclosed here.
No I can see with indifference that someone so beautiful, so kind, so worthy of being happy, go life in the hands of this beast. - Oh!
Go away, by God. - I will not go, no - the military said, getting excited a little.
A few days ago that I am concerned idea of ??martyrdom that you must suffer.
I feel a strong desire to liberate you of this maniac, and I think I will realize this purpose.
I've been there a hundred times a day and horror has given me the dark side of this house, grave in life so beautiful creature.
You will laugh at me, I understand.
It might seem strange that I have taken this interest a person whom I've only seen once, but this mystery not talk now.
What matters is that you decide to do what I advise.
You know, I've sworn not to allow here die of boredom and loneliness.
I'm sure you, so simply told me the only time we saw some of his misadventures, have the confidence I need today, will appreciate the nobility of my purposes and will not object to that conduct.
Clara did not know what to say.
I was confused to see the generous and fraternal interest was to a person whom she had seen so little.
This would be proud to another woman, but Clara was very modest, and before that had no affectionate demonstration that gratitude and shame.
The truth is that I could tell he was happy and wanted to continue that kind of life.
It was impossible to live in the company of that beast.
This idea led to more vigorously reject the offers that you did. - You do not know the person with whom you live - continued military .-- You do not know him, I yes: I have already informed of his character and his ideas.
Not only is a flamboyant man and intractable, but a fanatic without a heart, a fierce man of perverse instincts and horrible calculations.
No: you can not go longer in the hands of this man, who is not your relative or friend: is called its guard, to make you a victim of brutal pride.
Clearly understood by the vehemence with which the boy spoke, it was certainly his interest, and also known that the old paint was not exaggerated.
The stranger was acting with the highest nobility, sincerity and good faith.
He was one of those characters inclined to adventures difficult and dangerous involving the salvation of the suffering.
His spirit of chivalry, his heart for good, in that event found a reason for occupation, and devoted its activity to the completion of the most generous purpose.
In addition, a very strong feeling of sympathy for this poor orphan, he was moved to proceed with such diligence.
More later we will know the name and deeds of this noble gentleman. - But you is not here any longer - Clara said .-- How do you convince me that interested in me, if just being here proves to me otherwise?
If he comes and finds him at home .... - Do not say anything.
That man is so miserable, that does not care neither happiness nor honor you: everything look with indifference.
You has no more protection than me.
The orphan, when he heard these words he felt a chill in the soul.
The timing was such made them look like a great truth.
Its sole, legitimate and true friend would not come.
No he had more protection than an upstart. - Nothing more than me, but it is enough - the young man with affected voice you follow the plan .-- I will check: If you do not that old.
I will for you all that can be a man of heart and honesty.
You have in me the confidence that what we have has to be saved ....
And now, Clara, I go.
But I shall soon return to give my orders to the poor prisoner, whose happiness depends on me.
He has no more protection to you than me.
The unknown man's decision, suggested as novel in the secrets of home, was very firm.
It was proposed to undertake an adventure generous, he bowed to at the same time a feeling of sympathy, and confirmed in him the desire, to do well.
If there was a bit of selfishness in it, then we will see.
Since he left, when left Pascuala scared of the kitchen and said: - The Master! - Do not open - Clara said .-- Wait fearful, hiding you.
But Elias, who had a key, you need not open for entry. - No matter - said the officer, who was trying to calm Clara.
Took a few steps down the corridor without see the intruder, but to get to the end, he noted that bulk, looked up and saw the young man who bowed before him with respect.
It is very lucid. - I'm not for processions. - Do you like them you know what happens in the houses of the royalists? - Said the old man bitter and suspicious accent typical of his character .-- Here there is a conspiracy.
And if I conspired, so you would not come to amaze the dandies of the National Militia.
Clara was shaking.
The military seemed that, offended by this insult, was about to draw his the tremendous saber at his waist and to download it over the head of the realist.
What harm can you do? - Me? ... ....-- Damage the fan responded with a fierce grin, that it was equivalent to the smile. - Soon will you do and for a short time.
With that I shall make the favor of leaving.
He went to the exit, not without trying to express to Clara with a look which he had previously that in so many words, that is, to trust him and wait.
Would have liked to be accompanied the girl to the door, but dared not unhappy
