Women, be strong, stand and crowded at the gates and some of the neighboring rooms.
Golbasto was standing between two windows in the great room, facing the audience as a eagle prepares to take flight.
Momar smiling with his head down, feeling Hurricane prematurely bent the wings of glory was about to descend upon him.
As the national poet was always thinking about their business, even when pretending to favor a friend coughed repeatedly to silence, and said: - Since we wish to recite, allow that begins with the works of Father of the Masters.
The great Momar is not known as it deserves to be.
There are many who are deceived with the best faith dividing our national poetry into two kingdoms, one of which attributed to him and another to me.
Momar is great in all genres, and to prove I shall recite the heroic song to the True Revolution inimitable work of which would authoring.
A burst of applause greeted the shameless flattery to the chief academic and modesty interested the great poet. - I recite that song heroic - continued Golbasto - so you can see the difference between true poetry and miserable and cynical counterfeits that are served to our people perhaps at this very moment.
The allusion to the hated young poet who was reciting his work in the temple of lightning Black was greeted with a burst of laughter sympathetic and intelligent grunts.
After this preliminary success, Golbasto was released to the recitation of poetry by his friend and protector.
The triumphant hymn to women's revolution began with a prologue, in which the poet begged the sun to hasten his departure from the ocean foam and not arrive late and to witness the greatest event in history.
Golbasto launched with a clarion voice, the first verse: Show yourself, oh, Sunshine!
and with thy rays of gold ...
But instead of showing the sun, as requested by the bard, which was the night came unexpectedly in mid-afternoon.
The room was completely in the dark, all believed to have concurrent suddenly lost the hearing, the mothers screamed with terror, spreading his arms instinctively to save their daughters, the beautiful warriors laid their hands on their swords, but unable guess where the enemy was hiding.
Some teachers accustomed to anything and not surprised to find the scientific reason all the facts are realized after a few moments, that this darkness was due to an outside release, to two massive curtains that had fallen on both windows, interposed between their eyes and light.
Momar wrists were scratched in the dark, wondering what the hell to service envious of its glory had succeeded in creating this disaster ....
None of them thought that the man-mountain seat could be used as roof they had on their heads.
In one of his stretches of fatigue, had gathered Gillespie both legs, placing them casually, with geometric accuracy on the two windows As the night suddenly created inside the room, precisely the same time the poet invoked the sunrise.
After the first stunning surprise, eyes, accustomed to the darkness, began to see weak, thanks to the dim light coming from the room immediately.
In addition, the slight movement of one leg of Gillespie leaked a ray of light, and this served to everyone present would recognize what was the origin of the disaster.
Momar was dumb, because the fact seemed so outrageous, I could not find words.
A beautiful rose Guard officer, sword in hand, over chairs, and approaching to a window threw a sword at the giant's leg.
Gillespie, who was half asleep, woke with a start.
He raised one leg to put the ball at the height results and scratched his chest with both hands he felt the itch in the calf.
Then he dropped the leg again, and this, as if to obey a power Momar diabolical enemy, returned to seal the window.
The crowd roared with anger, seeing in it a new insult for everyone.
Man-Mountain I wanted to make fun of them.
The military, eager to show his heroism to the children of marriageable age, ran to the windows, peppering his giant calves steels.
Golbasto and Momar, infected by such heroic example, wanted to show that served to something else to write poems, and took down a panoply a long spear.
They seemed outraged by this incident, which had come to disturb his glory, and holding four hands the spear to puncture began to give a leg of the colossus.
This time the pain did jump to Gillespie, freeing the windows through which came to pour the golden afternoon light.
Everyone could see Mountain Man crouched on his knees as he stooped then his face contorted with pain, his eyes sticking to the two windows to find out what evil insects were those who had crushed venom through those holes.
The ladies were frightened to see those two big eyes that looked aggressive peer.
But Golbasto and Momar, who had long and implacable anger of the weak when they feel wounded his vanity, in collaboration continued driving his gun and shot a furious spear to one of the eyes that filled the windows.
If Gillespie was not one-eyed, it was because the two poets, backing for his coup was more terrible, diverted a little spear, tearing only one eyelid.
The man-mountain threw back his head, separating the eyes of the windows with a wink painful, but immediately put her mouth on one of them.
Gillespie, not knowing how to defend against evil swarm that had released a spittlebug in the classroom.
The liquid projectile caught the two poets and brought down with his spear wrapped in a wave sticky, which they did not know how to get out.
The giant continued to fire projectiles of the same species.
Other kicked falls on the floor, screaming to get rid of this flood the bond that had nailed to the floor.
And the heroic girls Guard, not wanting to present their exciting backs to the enemy, were retreating to the back of the room, making pinwheels with their swords to defend themselves the bombing.
XI That is the speech delivered by Senator Gurdilo and how the man-mountain changed suit The, next morning, Professor Flimnap was long rush into housing the giant.
Never had kindly offered his face looks like, alarm and bewilderment.
Despite its lush meat, leapt with youthful agility of the elevator to the surface plate the table, before the athletes responsible for the crane had completed their maneuver.
I had never experienced so many emotions in such a short space of time.
A fear overwhelmed dominated him from hours before, and this fear was due to generous feelings, thinking More on the fate of the Gentleman-Mountain than his own.
The terrible news of all occurred at the home of Father of the Masters had just surprised at the most gratifying of its existence.
Doctors scholars who stayed in their rooms trying to hide, believe man-mountain that had gone mad and wanted to crush them.
But reborn their anger to remember the sting of those pygmies, and believed still feel pain her legs.
I this will be fixed eventually.
Professor seemed to have forgotten all the concerns that saddened him moments before, the jump-lift plate.
You at large risks, and therefore consider it appropriate to express what I had not dared to say a better chance.
But the hot teacher continued: - I do not demand that I respond immediately.
I need to know news.
Committed such excesses, which finally had to delete.
This will be a speech utter another day, when you comprehensive statistical data that I gathered
