It was vacation, and my friend and colleague Don Carlos, closed and our gatherings, we we cited in this site some time to get together, then rotate and roam other times the beam of the moon, retire to our inn, to review the studies that we are so busily and then we were worth so little.
One night (and very close to his departure for the summer with his parents) gave the twelve without having gone to the usual place.
Already I was beginning to take care for his tardiness, when I saw them happier and more loudly than ever, and seizing my hand the warmest affection, I apologized for his carelessness, and, as always, to straighten our inn.
If such happen, how would the fools?, and already decided that they must always campear around the world.
So saying - continued - from now on talks run through wise and therefore not anger, and since we can not attract the dream, now forget the pandects and codes.
Saying this, he began to introduce their projects, which were greater or more splendid if I had to hand a million pesos, and its future acquisitions and for the estates I had to give, and inseparably trips had to undertake, I stopped for crazy or like a man who amused himself by fantasizing the hours of sleep and rest.
The next day, good morning, was already in his office, adding and figuring amounts immense value, and yet to have on hand the money his family sent him to travel, begged me to lend him three coins that were of each other more in the same.
I replied that a few coins that he had not kept such a proportion, but to spend them that nothing mattered to me very strange circumstances.
He got up without replying or an echo, and went through the house in demand for coins as pilgrims, and soon returned saying: - It is far nobody has been able to meet the taste, but the person who least wanted; but the force has been content with their good work.
The old Carja gave me three coins the requirement that I ask: are three fold, the first of two pesos, the second of four and the third of eight, and the latter must be also kept many decades has it been since macuquino that is gold or cut.
And that taught me the double talk, that the reverse had the names of Ferdinand and Isabella. - The old Carja - said my comrade - however dulzaina display for me, always me is a bad omen since the other day, some gypsy fortune-telling that know, I predicted that my tastes had to spoil me by old hands, but in Case now I try not know what evil might induce.
Want to make a fortune ?..." I turned my eyes and I found two steps using a soldier rather than tall, with Morion crest, with ruff and blue dress, her face not unpleasant, but pale and ashen and the voice deep and sad but nothing unpleasant.
He carried the sword of plywood shoulder, and hand supported the pike dark, but very shining iron
