He had never known or owned more proprietary know that Don Pedro Miranda.
The institutions of law force, the old law, universities, army, navy, constitution politics and even religion, had no reason to be in their eyes, but as elements that a direct or indirect entrenched those rights.
The amazing machine of the Universe was formed to support his undisputed title to the freehold of Praducos, village situated half a mile from the village, and had direct on the Meanas, with a canon hundred and fifteen ducats yearly.
This awareness of their right engendered very clear, however, excess of clarity, some conflicts.
A settler came and said: - Lord, Joaquín el martinetero, has cut the cane yesterday walnut hanging over their garden .-- But walnut was mine! - Don Pedro exclaimed suddenly flushed with anger and surprise .-- Yes, sir ...
but hanging over their garden as ...--¿ How this scoundrel dared to touch on one thing that is mine, mine? - immediately filed an injunction, and naturally, he lost.
Of these injunctions had lost a few dozen in your life, without ever deterrant.
Don Roque de la Riva, constitutional mayor Sarrió, who have been honored to compare when I first saw him in the theater, a courtier of Louis XV, or a coachman big house, not remarkable for the purity of diction, before it was so run down and confused, that the caller he could scarcely understand.
Particularly after eating it was impossible to talk to him.
And this, for no other reason, they said, but because they don Roque used to instruct pilots a wine friends Rivero, so exquisite, that nobody would to drink, even at the risk of staying silent.
The paramount chief of the village civil leaving all evenings home alone, in appearance, actually pleasantly accompanied.
Its huge face shaved wanted to take the blood through the pores, preferably focusing on the huge back Bourbon your nose.
The eyes, with bouquets of blood also, half veiled by not being able to suffer the great heaviness of the eyelids slowly were spaced across the width of the street expressing an enviable level of fitness.
Serious step, slow, hesitant, accused just as a perfect harmony between their mental and physical faculties.
He lacked Don Roque to achieve happiness rather than tripping over a sheriff, or a street sweeper, or serene, or chipping, with any employee, in short, of the municipality.
From afar I descry, and suddenly lifted her eyelids, and nostrils of the smell was opened dam.
If this, sniffing the tiger, he spent the other side, or trying to hide Roque called him a voice of thunder. - John, Juaan, Juaaaan!
The victim's head went down. - Have you taken the job to Don Lorenzo? - Yes, sir. - Have you told the clerk to leave the file section of the cemetery? - Yes, sir. - Have you taken the cards to the headman of San Martín? - Yes, sir. - Have you been to tell Manuel to remove the debris that is in front of your house?
In short, I was wondering, until the poor sheriff answered negatively.
Then, the voice of choristers of the mayor was heard across the street, and even in the confines of the town.
Impossible understand what he said, if they were not splashing the garlic with the speech, and even these the cupped so that only the jack was seen clearly.
The rebuke never lasted less than fifteen or twenty minutes, the time required to leave the vast amount of garlic that had been accumulated in the body from the night before.
Just as there are people morning put their fingers in the mouth to cause bile Roque inevitably needed this relief to be comfortable.
He had not ever heard another interjection, but instead of this possessed such abundance that was not enough to put one on each floor, sometimes put two or three.
Shopkeepers came out to the door to listen, but smiling, not surprisingly, as usual of old to this show. - Don Roque today pulled Swifts firm - told each other aloud. - Look if you do John.
Indeed, the sheriff at every turn in the round that gave the mayor, had the thumb the mouth and made the sign of steep.
Don Roque would rather find a sweeper or chipping in the exercise of their functions.
Sometimes himself in the speech enthusiastically grasped the broom and began to give the sweeper a lesson in his craft.
Shopkeepers, the few pedestrians crossing the street and some lady who was leaning on the balcony with the noise, burst out laughing merrily.
Thus vented his noble bosom of the copy of garlic that was upon him, undertook again their way and arrived at a most happy disposition Saloncillo body and spirit.
Gabino Maza was a man of about forty-five-year-old naval officer, retired early because his maverick nature could not bear to military discipline.
High, dry, muscular, his beard and hair that was black in color in blue, the always broken and violent gestures, voice indefinable, sometimes serious, other, when angry, which was almost always began to talk, shrill and sharp as a falsetto so shrill that broke the ears.
Enjoyed a small income and a very small removal, with which he could live and feed his family with respect Sarrió a wealthy gentleman.
In the capital of the province and it would be impossible.
Eternal struggles, putting in each dispute, it was trivial, a lot of passion and violence really amazing, always willing, be contrary to everything they said although it was clearer the noonday gloom of a fierce and unfriendly to judge men, for that point was not made the case that never believed pure motives of human action by noble and honored to appear, spiteful and vindictive to madness.
In villages and towns, by the intimate, long and steady people, penetrates into the soul of each than in large populations.
Superficial treatment does, in them, many men sympathetic cold, selfish and even evil.
Courteous manners, gentle words, insinuating smile, immediately provide opinion 'nice and decent person. " In the province worthless this.
Which are generally hated by some men that stranger seduce him, while others, hard, violent, aggressive, often fall into grace.
The dissimulation, which is the talent of rude and vulgar natures, not ever forgive province, perhaps to be the predominant service in all social relations.
Moreover, as the exaltation of violence and constant cause of suffering, physical and moral discomfort, rightly judged that men of such temperament are in themselves the penalty of their excesses.
Gabino Maza was not hated and loved too.
Another character was gathered there Feliciano Gómez.
Grocery merchant genres retail owner at the same time three or four and some quechemarines that pataches coasting trade made by the Cantabrian coast, venturing once in a while the more transport to get to Seville.
Of medium height, bare head of hair in pyramid-shaped pins that reached her nose, almost always hoarse voice.
He was unmarried and living with three sisters over age, who had made real ladies workforce and economy.
The payment as they gave public voice, was to have him dominated and subject as a child, bitterly rebuke lighter faults, and mortify and boring by all means imaginable.
However, he never was heard a complaint from them.
The Belgian engineer, M.
Delaunay, had come to Sarrió years ago, in order to benefit mining the preserve of a powerful English company.
But Delaunay, who had some money and entrepreneurial genius, went on for six or eight industrial companies.
First set up a paper factory then another tip from Paris, and later tried to form an oyster farm, then factory cheese and ice.
Finally wanted to take a large marsh that was near Sarrió.
All these companies had failed, without anyone knowing why.
Delaunay was smart, illustrated, time-consuming.
Each industry knew it was going to exercise as the most competent teacher; charge devices to England, riding and running was happily getting very acceptable products.
The attributed its fall to the lack of roads.
The last of big corporations, aborted before birth, it more than any other discredited.
In a of his trips around the village, had been near a small river certain uncultivated land with little effort could be reduced to cultivation.
A few months later, when he was forced to close the ice maker and fire workers, the Marsh remembered and spoke of them to Don Rosendo Belinchón Don Feliciano Gómez and two more Indians to assist him in his great undertaking.
Replicated them that was necessary to see them, and concertóse the tour.
One morning mounted in two horses secretly initiated the march to the estuary of Orlean, distant four leagues Sarrió.
In fact, more than six years were under cultivation.
His mistake was born seeing them in December when they were resting.
Was obliged to live miserably.
But far from going out in his mind the fury of the business burned in poverty with more momentum.
So not leave a single Sarrió capitalist who does so in order to embark on one.
Sometimes it was a tram to the capital, others a port of refuge or a wooden piers, other great restaurant.
Some Indians, just by the way, he seduced, paid some thousands of dollars his innocence.
The fact is that Delaunay was a man of talent, scholar, learning very well with all the advances of science and industry.
Despise impossible without making an injustice.
The Assistant Port Marina, Alvaro Pena, young man of thirty, dark, big eyes black mustache Victor Manuel, was characterized by a deep hatred, implacable, the state church and all who represent him, even if his own brother.
Without being amateur in any way to science or literature, had a fairly large library, composed entirely of books against religion and its ministers.
He was signed to three or four newspapers known for their anti-clerical views, and said he had been had been seized a few years to accumulate data for a book meant to be published under the title of religion within the reach of all fortunes, which many neighbors knew and some fragments.
He was cheerful, courageous, fond of stories and jokes, which always played paramount role a priest or nun.
Don Jaime Marin, owner of four bushels of bread, the contribution amounted about six thousand pesetas, would be a large skull, a profligate, a monster of corruption if not have to wife to Dona Brigida.
This distinguished lady was achieved with a healthy energy that your husband does not ruin the family and cast them all for doors.
Before disrupt their finances secured the court deprived him of property management and was assigned to it.
It is not easy how firmly grasped Dona Brigida the reins of the house.
No Roman patrician was never a more perfect idea of ??sui juris, of the sacred rights "the city" had placed in his hands.
Since it came to pass, Don Jaime, despite his fifty-odd years, became in his hands a real thing as preventing Instituta.
The lady inflexible deposited in their hands every Sunday three pesetas, no more no less.
It was all available to flow during the week for their services, except smoking, which it subsidized, buying cigarettes itself.
When I needed a hat, she bought it, when a suit or a pair of boots be warned the tailor or shoemaker to come to take action.
He even kept him from going the barbershop, lest they run the two real.
By the way, with little or no consideration, the bearded rapador got some sometimes at nine o'clock, when Don James was sleeping. - What do I do? - Asked Dona Brigida. - Shave you - answered the lady very severe.
The barber, following the slogan, was approaching, he smeared his face with soap and robbed him the beard nicely without Don Jaime awoke more than half.
He missed another dream and when you wake up really used to say to the servant who served the chocolate: - Today is Saturday, they call, the barber. - Tonto, borricote, unable sacraments! - Answered her sweet consort from the cabinet .-- No see you shave yet? - It's true! - Said the good man feeling his face.
At first I used to ask friends or acquaintances of coffee some money to play ombre, and drinking on credit in coffee but soon or friends want to give anything, nor establishment owner trusted him and the value of two rooms.
Stopped short of Dona Brigida to throw him down the stairs one day that has brought him a hundred and twenty reais.
Once in a time playing checkers with Mr.
Lorenzo, as he flatly refused to follow the game without interest, was that Marin arbitrate should not be any precious metal.
Discoursed expose one of the two cigars that his wife was in the morning.
When he lost, that afternoon was not smoking.
Sometimes looking for a rematch, losing two and three would one by one, giving his opponent in the following days.
Then he spent, as their Friends would say, "the grammar", that is, to ask here and there a cigarette to calm the unbearable itching to suck.
Years of staying up all night until four or five in the morning, had formed a habit impossible overcome.
As holding him was not going home anyway to bed until daybreak, and spent the evening poking around the rooms, and as the vice late nights alone the cheapest is known, the witty lady let him retire at the time wanted.
Coffee remained in the Navy with the last customers.
After they retired, still remained while the boys placed the dishes in place and the owner pointed out the latest games.
When he threw the establishment materially was to company to the serene de la Rúa Nueva, very friend.
Chatting with the hours he killed still lacking for the dawn.
There were over fifty of them in Sarrio.
The hard work and subjection in which they had lived for many years, I did have an idea of ??happiness is very different from ours.
To us the joy is to enjoy a new pleasure every day, shaking, traveling, enjoying the body and spirit of the amazing variety of things that nature offers us.
For them was estimated solely on not working, spending day after day of hard redeemed law imposed by God to Adam after sin.
Most of them had their capital in the Funds, whose income when it comes to not cause discomfort.
Rising up early in the habit of early rising, and walked all morning through the streets or at the dock in gangs of six or eight player entry and exit, loading and unloading of ships.
After dinner they went to the mezzanine Navy coffee or Friendship, and spent three or four hours playing or watching play billiards. "Come on, ball of bone, go, go to hut! - Leave, leave, Don Pancho, which is wound .-- Sal girl, leave the manigüita .-- Ah, ah, how nice ute hits, Don Lorenso! - Do not get mad, don Pancho! " The game was always peppered with such phrases that smelled like banana and coconut.
When the days were long, there veíaseles afternoon by walking near the village also gang or sitting on the grass at the edge of a fountain.
It was time for tropical memories. "Remember ute, Don Agapito remembers mulatta aqueya ute dog that came to give plasma to the store? - And how well he sang the guarachas, the sinvergüensa! - a design that ute vese the rubbed, Don Agapito, the hard rubbed .-- And why not, Don Pancho, if what I would improve the dance of people with black slipped my Justo compare? - Wow, man, do not say So I Enoha!
Vese Poquita trabao I saw him with eya dancing down the little girl, little girl down! " There was no count on them to subsidize the orchestra, or theater, or other public recreation.
Young indigenous people if they wanted to have fun need to appeal to the pocket of his parents.
On the back, and even from the front, called them rusty, villagers, donkeys laden with money.
The continued glorification of his body, the vehemence with which he tried to persuade his audience, forcing him to take up the seat immediately, jumping into the middle of the room and screaming and slapping until he concluded his breath and strength.
There was talk of the company the theater had announced his departure to have experienced losses in the first installment thirty functions.
Maza was to convince them that there had been no such losses, it was all a hoax. - Not true, not true!
Anyone who says they have lost a penny lying! ... (Down voice and shaking hands with Gonzalo .)--¿ How are you, Gonzalo?
Maza grinds his teeth.
Go, go (with affected contempt), to force to deal with comedians you've forgotten the office, as the blacksmith of yore. - Hey you, smarty, I have not said what he believed.
