The first was executed Gotthard Arthus was whose version inserted 7.ma De Bry in part.
of its large collection of voyages: and so imperfect Hulsio seemed to Levin when confronted with the original, it was decided to undertake another translation, which appeared in Nuremberg in 1599, adding the portrait of author, with several sheets of fruits and animals of Paraguay, and two maps, one of America the north and the other from the south, although incorrect, are not without some merit for the time they occurred.
Of these versions is worth D.
Gabriel Cardenas to the epitome he published in 1731, and Barcia reproduced in the third volume of his early history of the West Indies.
Although the notes and index that accompanied it, did not illustrate it, and only may get to see the text, which would have done if we had found.
But of all the works dealing with the conquest of the Rio de la Plata, is that of Schmidel the rarest, most can be taken by irreperible.
Schmidel judgments sometimes resent the spirit that prevailed then in the conquerors all divided into factions and biases, and failure to pronounce on the conduct of Governor Cabeza de Vaca, illustrious name in the annals of conquest, disagree with the facts to us by other contemporary historians.
But regardless of these moles, prudent that every reader can discern, deserve credit data has been collected, and only the mention that makes so many places, tribes, customs and events, has been preserved of forgetting, which has swallowed up many other memories.
Whether you were endowed with an imagination more temperate or more mature trial, is that distrust what others said, is ciñeae refer to what he himself observed, it is true that he be considered the most circumspect writer of his time.
German language, that he used to write your notes, and Latin in which they were reproduced, were the most apropos to generalize, so for nearly two centuries were ignored.
Also contributed to this neglect the little case that made the Spanish of their establishments in countries devoid of mine: the exploitation was long the object exclusive of the administration of its colonies, and so general was the prestige egercian in the public these rich products, perverted to the trial of historians, whose admiration focused on the conquerors of Peru and Mexico.
However, neither were lower risk, and no less heroic sacrifices of those who invaded the other parts of America, and to ponder what it cost the occupation of Paraguay, just Schmidel follow in quick but brilliant look that gives over twenty years he spent in the New World, surrounded by people of a wild and savage nature.
Overworked, sought and obtained permission to return to his homeland, and escorted by twenty Indians decay, or Guarani, only fruit of his long pilgrimage in America, crossed the Guaira, to arrive soon to San Vicente, where he hoped to find a ship to Europe.
This way, no more footprints preserved, Cabeza de Vaca, about being impraticable by the rough terrain, was guarded by swarms of savages that are nested in their lengthy and impenetrable forests.
Entire villages came out to dispute the passage, and to all put up a brave resistance, seconded by his faithful companions, in spite of being Indian defended a European.
Finally reached the end of his journey sighed, and sat in Portuguese ship that brought him to Lisbon.
Commissioned by the Governor Martinez de Irala to put in the hands of the king a detailed part major occurrences of his administration, he went to Seville, where he was that time the Emperor Charles V, and the audience gave him that sovereign, he said verbally more news to those which contained the report of Irala.
This document is very important for the history of our provinces, if not lost in the hands of the King, should be in Sevilla or Simancas, in the jumble of papers piled on file.
Freed Schmidel all its commitments, he sailed for Antwerp, where it was restored the bosom of his family after twenty years of absence.
Buenos Aires, September 16, 1836.
Voyage to RIO DE LA PLATA.
Of navigation of Antwerp to Spain.
The year 1534, I left Antwerp sailed for Spain, arrived at Cadiz in 14 days, sailing 480 miles, and saw a whale off the coast of 35 steps, which filled 30 barrels oil.
There was in the port 14 large vessels prevented to go to Rio de la Plata, Spanish 2.500 and 150 German, Flemish and Saxon, with its Captain General, D.
Pedro de Mendoza, and 72 horses é mares.
One of these ships was Noarto and James Belzar Sebastian, that Henry was Peyne, the factor, with goods to the Rio de la Plata, in which I embarked with about 80 Germans and Flemish, well armed.
The day we left the port of San Bartolomé, 1534, with the army, and arrived at San Lucar, which is 20 miles from Seville, where we stopped by the stormy the sea.
Of navigation from Spain to the Canaries.
A first of September, quiet time, we left San Lucar, and reached three islands far between, called Tenerife, Gomera and Palma, are far from San Lucar 200 leagues [1]; abundant sugar, divided the army there.
Inhabit these islands with their Spanish wives and children, and are the domain of the King.
Spent four weeks with three ships in the Palma providing us with victuals, until orders came from D.
Pedro de Mendoza to continue journey.
Our ship was a relative of D.
Peter, called D.
Jorge Mendoza, who had fallen in love the daughter of a neighbor of the Palm: the last day for having weighed anchor, went ashore D.
Jorge with twelve companions, about twelve o'clock at night, and stole, bringing to the ship with a maid, her dresses, jewels and money and secretly brought it into our ship, without the captain Enrique Peyne know anything.
Only the guards warned him that it had seen.
We started to sail in the morning, and at two or three leagues of journey, time went so hard we went back to the harbor and cast anchor.
Enrique Peyne was in the boat ashore, and wanting take it, he saw 30 men armed with guns and swords, they wanted to arrest him, and knowing his crew urged him to not come out to the ground.
Of navigation from Green Island to Brazil.
When you walk in summer (usually more than 30 leagues), but are water, or the root of thistles, but food quenches thirst, kill the deer or the wild animal they encounter, and drink the blood, and it did, perhaps die of thirst.
Fourteen days brought real fish and meat, and because they missed one Mendoza sent to Ruiz Galan, judge, and two other soldiers to them (who were four leagues).
But the Indians were mistreated and returned to the camp with three wounded.
Mendoza seeing this, and that Galan was maintained with people, sent his brother, D.
Diego Mendoza, with 300 soldiers and 30 good horses (among whom was I) command, that taking the people of the Indians, kindle or kill them all.
But when we already had 4.000 Indians from their friends and family, life.
In the battle with the Indians Querandíes.
Indians nearly 1,000 died.
They fought hard and courageously with their bows and arrows, gender lancilla, half way to lance with sharp flint, and three points as trisulco.
They have balls of stone, tied to a long string, like our artillery [7]: échanlas at the feet of the horses (or of the deer when hunting), until they fell, and with these balls they killed our captain and the gentlemen referred to, and to the footmen, with their darts, which I saw.
But, despite his resistance, and we beat his people, taken alive were unsuccessful but none, not even women and children, because once it's had taken to another place.
In the village we found the skins of otters, a lot of fish, flour and butter fish.
Detuvímonos three days into it, and returned to camp, leaving behind a hundred men, which the interim fish with nets to supply the Indian people, because those waters are wonderfully abundant fish.
Distributed food, to every one, three ounces flour, and every three days, a fish, and if I wanted more, had to go fishing four leagues there: this fishery lasted two months.
Of the population of Buenos Aires, and hunger that is suffering.
Returned to our camp was divided people to the work of the city and the war, applying each to craft appropriate.
Began to build the city and up to around a ground near three feet wide, and a spear high, but what was done today fell morning, and within it a strong house for the governor.
All were suffering so much misery many were dying of hunger, nor were enough to remedy the horses.
Increased this anxiety have already missed the cats, mice, snakes and other little creatures that they used to tune it unclean, and ate up the shoe and other leather
