I watched carefully, and composing the glasses I notary asked in a tone of tedious. - What sent you?
As always I'm asking for you.
Not like these young donkey that to no avail.
Not one of these rascals will bring beef ravine.
The poor old man, overjoyed, delighted in looking at me and hugged me, and went through my larguiluchas cheeks and bloodless hands. - Come in, boy, go to the room ....
I have really wanted to talk to you.
The poor things always afflicted and infirm ....
He said this stroking and pushing me forward, between the double row of seats.
The boys opened his eyes to see me as surprised by the strange sweetness of his master.
Near the table stood Don Roman, he turned toward the small fry, and cried solemnly in a tone of sermon: - This, this that you see, is one of my most beloved disciples.
Many times, many, I have spoken to him.
This it does not I was, like you, so many disappointments, it matches itself did not Galician, and knew by heart the pasts, and understood, as a teacher, the sweet Virgil, the concise Tacitus, and Asia and pomposísimo Cicero.
Miracle did not finish the speech with some hexameters appropriate.
The boys to hear the familiar epithet, smiled mischievously, a sign that the nickname for the teacher for us ten years ago, still in use.
The rascal laughed and looked at each other with joyful faces of devils. - Let: - continued - I give the morning to you to celebrate the arrival of my disciple very loved.
But, hear me, no one will go until you hear the twelve.
Stay here, without making mistakes.
The best day this young man again, and I look, and we'll see, we'll see what your Advances in beautiful Latin language.
Don Roman raised his head and added: - You, Pancho Martinez ....
A swarthy lad, lively, of nice appearance, he led.
While the child went to call his teacher I glanced around the room.
Had nothing varied.
The same furniture, the same objects, the paper stained with ink, with signs on covers, recorded a knife tip, the board, the same board from another time at his easel green domino table occupied by the same books, all well placed.
There was the bell, handle broken, and ink surrounded by feathers, - Don Roman did not use other, - and next to the rod of sapodilla.
On the walls, blackened and chipped, two or three maps yellowish above the master chair, very polished and resobado, Our Lady of Guadalupe, the patroness of the school before the image a little lamp, a glass filled with dark blue oil in which floated a dying butterfly.
As soon as we entered the living room he heard the shouts of the school crowd, festive, playful.
Noise laughter, roar slammed books, a thousand and a thousand voices, frank and cheerful of freedom happy child.
He opened the door she rushed overwhelmed by, reminding roaring, a torrent of laughter naive.
When you left I thought I do not see them again ....
In February fulfill seventy- two.
I have disciples in all kinds trades and professions.
Some, in senior positions in politics, which were more disengaged, (Many did not exceed vel quis quid), others in the Church (two I have already given communion); others, doctors and good doctors, other lawyers, others, like you, on its way to people meal!
In fact, never worth much, nor for the conduct or by the application, insurance few students gave more war than I pomposísimo teacher.
When they were in their seats, they were all lazy, incompetent, donkey, then with the exception of those for dissolute end, everyone was excellent, compliments, utilized.
But the truth is that I always wanted Romao as a child, he treated me with great kindness; rarely feel my hands the beating of his rule, and that good old man, however their poverty, gave me lessons for two years, without requiring any extipendio aunts.
I am distressed to see my teacher so sad and dejected, when he was so near the grave.
Had I wanted to be rich, rich, for protection against the misery, give him all he wanted, and buy for him, if that were possible, health and youth. - Did I mention I'm poor?
Well, I'm poorer than you can imagine.
Or Latin, or anything else, all I can teach you everything I know, as you learned here!
Say I'm late, that my teaching is anachronistic, have you heard? "Anachronistic?
That will tell pedantic today, and all because mumble French.
That's what the learned here all they know, and now they do not want to confess that I owe everything.
They say they no longer serve to anything ....
But yes, without the help of French versions ...
Hey, what hurts me most, what comes to me as I live, so I tear the heart, I feel here, like the blade of a knife, is that they say ....-- The poor old man wanted to mourn; his face contracted painfully, his voice was getting shaky, his eyes peered a tear, - say ...-- and eventually made an effort - what I'm senile!
It broke my heart to see poor old man.
He cried like a child.
Eager relief comfort and vexed by the wickedness and ingratitude, opened his soul, simple and full of pain, a poor boy who years earlier was his disciple and phrases which he hoped compassionate terms of endearment. - And as they say I'm senile, and as go repeating that everywhere I missing disciples I need disciples and missing work, and unemployed, as you understand, I need money.
Ten or twelve disciples low paying, and how!
I have no more than prepare to die a Christian.
The other day - here he smiled satisfied the good old man - the other day, published in "La Voz de Villaverde" (the paper that they released when the election of the Chief Political), a papasal, giving it strong spirit, free thinker, and I, - the Dominie spoke softly, as if afraid that he might hear - what I did?
I took the pen, and I put mockery mocking gold and blue.
I sent "The Mountains" three press sucks way street.
That said, why I made the speech on 16 September.
If I knew it all from the mouth of Junior, the son of my friend Don Venancio, who is my disciple.
Follow them, follow them, you will make good race.
You will come, and see if you can translate a little something that I have saved around: an ode Salic at Stony, our red Tiber.
Struck twelve in the tower of the parish, and in other churches of Villaverde.
Grave and solemn of the parish, screaming and dissonant those of Christ; annealed at San Antonio, very compassionate and majestic Franciscan convent.
Again the noise, the shouting, the closing of books and the din of drawers. - I see those little devil! - Upset the old man said .-- awaits me or go?
Look: see a night by night I'm here, do not go out ever.
At night there I have to deal with the herd; see and hear the Odita.
Di your aunts that go beyond.
IX On the way out I stopped at the corner a few minutes.
Ahead of me a group of children coming from the 'National School', cheerful, talkative, brin bags with shoulder strap, very careful in their ink, some bottles sealed with a cork and hang in the balance The crooks got caught in the right hand index.
Almost advancing step beside me to pass some disciples of Don Roman, with the Nebrija under his arm, serious, serious, proud, highly paid of their science, as people of very high knowledge.
While stopped school in the corner to take on the flattest of the curb a game of marbles or donkeys, Latinos 'pomposísimo Cicero' long continued, turning to me with some mocking, impertinent curiosity.
At the end of the street in front of a store, a cart, pulled by a team, awaiting the departure of the farmhands.
Was loaded with barrels of rum and loaves of sugar-white, whose crystals were wounded by the sun, sparkled with diamond lights.
The ox on the left, a beautiful Sardinian beef remained motionless, the other white, streaked with black, whipping their backs with tail to shoo the flies that harassed.
In the back of the wagon, on the rail, rested crinosa pica.
As I go, in every street, in windows and doors, I saw faces that were not new to me.
When I look at them as they were played loosely, back in the hidden corners from my memory.
Men and women looked at me earnestly and carefully examined my suit, surprised the cut of my clothes, tight pants, then the use, of the American cortita; of my red tie (which villaverdinos said of "Chinaco '); of my hat curved, white, dotted with black spots, as if I had it sprayed ink.
Formerly the villaverdinos abroad were coming to their picturesque city, for of derision and amusement.
Laugh begun by the color of their dress and their way of carrying hair.
Whispered to him in his beard, cut a coat, and then ended by imitating what censored - and in the worst way.
A long time ago that I put my feet in Villaverde, and I understand that my countrymen are now over cult, because there I write, and I say they are not so: they no longer like to present poorly dressed, they adopt the correct fashion, and that the tailor is villaverdinas figurines are new every three months.
But then, when the events that befell I refer, was something else.
Leaning against the tower, where cracks and leper roll the clock breaking colonial, with its field marble and golden needles, invisible for anyone who saw from afar, because the hidden the branches of magnificent cypresses, in whose shadow the dandies shelter each Sunday, Mass after noon, they settle down to see the girls coming out of mass very all dressed up and attack.
Quadrant a cleric melancholy, pensive, smoking, and an Arab front of his tent in the lower corridor of the Municipal House a tattered police, with a rifle on his shoulder, walking, and back in the Calle Real, miserable trade center villaverdino, a train, a beggar, and Dr.
The square, or rather the center of her garden in the past, thanks to the efforts of a Prefect Santa Anna, was preserved as I left.
Amid the secular power, wide basin eight sides with granite fountain in the form of artichoke, which came out strongly thick stream of clear water, when the winter gale made him pieces flooding contour tiles.
The wall of masonry was crumbling and peeling, the chipped and crumbling banks, and the orange trees that surrounded the fountain, anemic, devoured by ants.
In a bed, the only one who seemed such, some hardwood floors and shining, enflorecidas and gallant.
Drew my attention to the side of the temple, a new building, a magnificent house, bright appearance, great for Villaverde and that place where everything is mean and vulgar.
Linda house, eaves airy, with wide and ripped windows, iron gates, windows elegant and marble thresholds.
The luxurious furnishings, drapes, walls papered, mirrors, large pictures with very fine engravings depicting biblical scenes (The marriage of Isaac, Ruth and Boaz, Rebekah at the well), everything pointed to the wealth of who lived there.
Skillful hands he played in a flask highly applauded, "The falling leaves', dreamy and languorous music that betrayed a melancholy performer.
I stopped near a gate.
Then I could descry inside: pretty garden, large and cool corridors, railings pots filled with roses, camellias and azaleas, cages and little cage, an aviary full of canaries that sang rejoicing.
In a mirror, fronting the window, see who played.
She was a young blonde, wearing modest white suit, one of those muslin dresses thread, fresh, light, fluffy, both nubile girls feel: outfits worn with the unique charm chicks Villaverde and Pluviosilla.
After the redowa, the beautiful young lady continued to play on the keyboard.
First, lightning-fast scales, whose notes popped like beads on a necklace, then favorite passages, favorite subjects - a melodic fragment, lulling and delightful.
I felt that I heard behind me the noise of the billowing chiffon skirt.
Why I thought I saw before me a pained face, crying and in pain, the face of Angelina?
and looked down.
X Andrew came to visit.
I invited him to take a stroll along the banks of the river, and then I said my aunts were in poverty.
To hold in school, but I shall not want, had done all sorts of sacrifices.
Cut back on spending at least possible, and worked from day to night, sewing, tailoring and canned pastas, and making artificial flowers.
Disease, common in Villaverde at the entrance of the summer, fell on the bed.
Although apparently healthy, was wound incurable disease
