It is said that when a farmer who claims to have much to spend want to give to his girlfriend or girl who is accompanying, goes to the confectioner and asks buds and sweet potatoes. - How many do you want? - Says the baker put in one pan of the scale weight paneled. - Have you jierro - replied the gallant.
The baker put the weight of half a pound. - Have you more jierro - repeated several times the stud, and the candy is poured almost all weights.
But always the girl, full of exquisite delicacy, and the more modest affectations, claims the difficulty of moving home is so much uproar and grief of candy, and ensures not be able to eat in a week or two, and that will sour, dry or stale.
In Finally, she is so eloquent that the gallant, though at first he resists calling the girl Almond average lady, after be persuaded, but not suddenly, but little by little; and as it entered the conviction in her mind and she keeps talking, he interrupted tracts telling the baker: - Remove your jierro.
And in this way ends up not being on the pan of weights more than paneled, and sometimes two ounces.
Lest we lacked the evening of any appeal, she was in a band military, which had been preserved since the time when there was national militia, thanks to the efforts and efforts of Don Andrés Rubio, who had been commander of the militia.
The eight musicians that comprised the band still wore when they were going to play the ceremony, former extinct institution uniform defending our freedoms.
They were journeymen musicians or laborers of the smartest, not playing badly, and always the Municipality paid a good stipend: six to eight reals each.
This tribute is liberated to Villalegre was put on old, by coming from the neighboring town, where he function the musicians, who surnamed tragalentejas in place.
Don Paco walked to her friends throughout the exhibition, giving little to no murmur, as they had expected.
As they were thinner than laborers, none was coming to speak, as they were more humble position that the rich peasant, owning and Hidalgo, the aristocracy the despised.
Juanita illegitimate birth was greater isolation.
Juanita he and a friend.
Among the boys, as he had neglected for many, the poor will not be approached by offended or shy, and rich men, if she would have been easy for stubborn visit her house, flake or lowered fear accompanying her in public.
Antonuelo was the only lover who still liked to accompany Juanita, but then walked Antonuelo very lost and was absent in one of his forays into the nearby sites.
Spencer did not visit or his mother Juanita.
First, the frequent visits he had been frightened Antonuelo
