A month earlier would not have hesitated to turn to his former clerk, despite how much it hurt his pride.
But now, think of the boldness that is allowed Corpus Christi Day and many others made by the stockbroker in his daily visits, Dona Manuela shame he stopped, and be lit room, had seen her blush.
She, who did not remember so many years for no Melchor Pena, sentíalo roam around as a guardian spirit of his honorable widowhood.
The doctor, from her second husband, did not remember for nothing.
One good piece with his infidelities, he had no right to demand accounts I could do.
What most surprised him was that caused it will now be shown as terrible scruples when, after his first widowhood easily and insensibly fell into the arms of Pajares.
Love had drowned then all the worries, but now it was a holding dishonorable, a sale that resulted only assume it will shame and embarrassment.
No, before misery.
Dona Manuela, intoxicated with the power of resolution, I thought of poverty as something unknown, but it was pleasant seeming to be the salvation of his honor.
Would work She and her daughters.
Dona Manuela, reviewing their limited knowledge of history, his pride was flattered and felt almost like a dethroned sovereign falling into poverty.
This enough to affirm it in its resolution.
When Rafael and Johnny came home, the family went to dinner.
The dinner was sad.
Seemed the body lying down in the dirt on the block, was there on the table, looking glassy-eyed and motionless with their former masters.
After dinner, the two brothers left, each going his own way.
Johnny had changed his habits.
Did not return home until eleven o'clock at night, and then to make a short visit to Tonic and Michelle, went to a cafe where people gathered Exchange and could be seen daily reviews and prophecies of "bullish" and "bears." At nine p.m.
Pajares received a visit from Andresito and dad.
Cuadros showed himself joyful and radiant, as if he is happy news that in the yard nelet had given him. "So the horse was dead?
Come on, now explaining why they were that afternoon walk on the Alameda.
Was to feel the loss, because a horse to replace Bright worthily had to cost some money, but what the devil!
four or five thousand real or harm anyone.
And the Lord spoke of money Tables sneer throwing back her head and pulling the belly as if it were lined with bank notes.
The girls talked to Andresito near the piano, and Dona Manuela, calm and self-possession herself, she stared at his former clerk.
The shocked by the contempt with which that man spoke of money, and received a bloody sarcasm the assumption that four or five thousand reais meant nothing to her.
And thinking this, his eyes went instinctively into the marble of a console, where it had been exhibited magnificent silver candlesticks now stored in the Monte de Piedad, and also looked at the sticker adorning flights the classroom walls, replacing two large paintings inherited from his father, the work of Juan Juanes, for which he had given the need to live for a month.
The man, blinded by his fortune, did not know what he said.
Like she was some years before when he farms to sell or pawn and threw the money hand over fist.
Cuadros, always ignorant of the true situation of the house, terribly upset Dona Manuela.
Wanted to appear friendly, and this made offers that were sarcasm.
He is responsible for the purchase of the horse.
How it would be cheaper, for a Shiny beast as beautiful as that would only pay about three thousand.
The horse he was riding his son had bought almost a bargain, and now hoped to have the same fate. - What is right for you, Manuela, is to buy the horse as soon as possible because if people you see them walking many days like today make malicious comments.
Those of us at some point look at us owe us a lot in our stuff.
And the lucky fool, talking of the height, closed his eyes as if he felt the vertigo of which are at the top.
What caused the greatest effect in Dona Manuela was the claim that people would comment if not shown in public as usual.
Now reappeared the pride of his character, shuddering at the thought of mortifying shame with which talk about his ruin.
There be sustained in height, using all means, and then to come around, until what only blush at the thought both produced.
And the lady vain to assert its resolution, seeking examples and remember what I had so often heard in the infamous gossip gatherings: the innumerable cases so decent ladies like her, well regarded by society, and who had made sacrifices equal to salvage the prestige of their homes.
And supported by the pernicious example of those women who had both censored dependent looked old with eyes that revealed a reasoned and calm immodesty.
The stockbroker sensed something in the eyes of the wife of his former principal.
And credulity old skull and innocent threw the body back with some pride, as if convinced that their personal belongings had influenced such an amazing achievement.
The visit ended at midnight, and when the father and son ran toward the door, accompanied by the ladies of the house, Dona Manuela changed his last words to Mr.
Tomorrow I trust that my request will be made. - Oh, sure ...!
You know that all things interest me as my own business. - So, come tomorrow at three and give him the money. - Will you shut up?
But in the end, I will come to have the pleasure of a chat.
The stockbroker was like a rebirth of life, something that reminded her fever young, when as chief clerk joked and chased the maid in the backroom Teresa Las Tres Rosas.
In the dining room could hear the sound of silverware Visanteta dried, the only learned the visit of Mr.
She was the one who heard the muffled laughter lady and the dragging of some furniture, as if they were driven to violence, but a girl was cautious and restrained, which only dealt with his actions, without pausing to interpret outsiders.
The next day the family could go for a ride in his carriage, and a younger horse and Bright took best picture that the void that his death had left in the manger.
Doña Manuela had money, started to pay bills regularly; providers do not bother and demanding payment of arrears, and the French dressmaker, After pocketing a few thousand real thought lost forever, the girls did Pajares new outfits to show off at the fair in July.
All was joy and peace in Dona Manuela, and impacted the family happy Las Tres Rosas, where we considered the simple Teresa happy.
She knew her husband had Clarita definitively broken, that "bad skin" that lived on the streets of the port.
And quarters did not pay the mezzanine, or attending to their crazy spending.
What is more, a soul charity she had not heard that this loss was deceiving him, mocking him with the kids Stock Exchange, and showed himself unrepentant Antonio, ready to protect not just more women ilk.
The poor Teresa, to think that his former mistress was the one who had performed such a miracle, attracting her husband on the right track, I felt such gratitude that he could not talk about it without being to tears.
Valiente thing mattered The Three Roses!
There was to tempt fortune; and now that he was in favor, it was crazy not to retire on time.
Increasingly love Tonic, he flattered the idea of ??getting married immediately, but this impulsábale same care to wait.
It was better to contain their desires for a few months, year at most, let their capital, turning the bag, were enlarged as a snowball; they possess the long-awaited and respected million, making the transformation was complete: enjoy watching the poor grisette became, under the direction of his vain mother, in elegant lady, with big house, carriage and other trappings of wealth.
The desire for swift action to this desired end was what made him bold and muted fears of a likely ruin.
Those who had known him in the past asombrábanse for radical change in his character.
His uncle, Don Juan did not speak and with him.
One day gave broken relationship, it was about to beat his nephew. - Johnny, you're a fool - said the miser with his lips trembling with anger, erizándosele brush mustache -.
I always believed that your character had more than your father to my sister and therefore I did but now I see that I cheated.
I have lost bad company, that lying atmosphere in which you live, your examples of wasteful mother's advice your principal fool, believed to be an oracle in business to earn money for blind a whimsical mockery luck, and someday will pay all together, giving me a taste you can laugh to see him shirtless.
Selling the garden to make you the owner of the Three Roses and marry this girl, who, as I have understood, a good person, would have been like your uncle.
So you had come to me: 'Dude, I need this, that and the other thing', we at the end of the street.
But now, you understand?
As I've gone to all of your family, and I can not love.
I thought you, want you to be the that was beside my bed at the hour of my death, and to recount the four quarters I have, I said: 'This is for the guy. "But now I'm disappointed.
Walk, walk, become a millionaire in the stock market, and if you get into a beggar, do not come looking for me, because what will your guy is laughing at how gross you are.
He had not known any other father, and also in their merchant calculations, had always appeared the hope of being the heir of Don Juan.
But the agitations of the Exchange, and especially profits, cushioned sorrow the break.
When ends meet, earned the "differences," he said with surprise: "It seems impossible for us to censure for taking a holding as true.
Whenever Johnny was in the tent with the old merchant, it will soon glances of compassion as contempt.
Sometimes they even came to murmur reproachfully: - Oh, Johnny, Johnny ...!
Tables that demon drags you into perdition ....
Now you're doing very well so you can convince; but the fry will be laughing.
And the old man turned his back, confident that the facts would come to support their forecasts.
Her mother wanted more from I saw him handed over to business.
His son was no longer dependent on trade, was a stockbroker, and that always provides higher social status.
In addition, earnings were a source of hope for the widow, that although he saw all their needs met this, I kept feeling worried about the future.
Juanito's good fortune could solidify the prestige of the house.
The proximity of the July fair to the family concerned.
Never had spent evenings so nice in the house of the de Pajares.
At night, after dinner came Mr Paintings, Theresa and her son, and began the joyous reunion.
By open balconies penetrated the breath of neon hazy summer full of enervating perfumes.
Heat cast their narrow dens people from the lower floors, and doors were blocked by cliques of white shadows sitting on low chairs and breathing noisily.
Up on the roof, covering the Place a sheet of satin moth-eaten that was transparently infinite points of light, sky the summer with his mysterious and opaque transparency.
In the dark balconies could be distinguished, among the pots of flowers and put the jug to cool silhouettes scantily clad confusing.
Others open and lighted, bypassed, such as those of birds, the sound click the piano, sometimes accompanied by the steady drip of new irrigated pots.
In the corridors of the huge partíanse square watermelons, and women on the noserag chest to get rid of spots, devoured the slices as crescents, wipe the red mouth juice.
Whispered a door with a melancholy guitar strumming, answering from another accordion with his shrill and nasal shriek.
The noises of the square, laughing of people, shouting that crossed between the cliques and popular music, came in the cool of the evening in the lounge of the Pajares, serving deaf support the conversation of the party.
Girls, Andresito, made plans for the next exhibition.
They remembered the rigodones in Hall of Agriculture and lively waltz in the Trade, thought of the costumes that had brought the French fashion designer, and kept intact in order to knock on the Alameda on the first night of the fair, and even felt their evil little joy considering effect their cause in the friendly elegance.
So Conchita, despite angry and moody character, we felt happy to see Roberto "returned to the fold", being more in love than before.
In the evening, leaving his friend Rafael, attended the gathering of Pajares and not content with the long conversations there argued with his girlfriend, still in the mornings, when it was Amparo the toilet, the maids in the Market and Mom in bed, up the stairs, and landing to the open door of the room, over an hour talking to Conchita, until Dona Manuela got up and started moving the house.
The major concern of the family were the three bullfights, the loudest celebration of the fair.
The girls had prepared their costumes to "my beautiful" and a number of times they had tried before the mirror to learn to put in a natural and tasteful white blanket lace.
The day came for the first run.
The atmosphere seemed charged with a strange environment madness and brutality.
Arremolinábase morning people, with pushing and shoving, around of resellers in the Plaza de San Francisco hawked the "sun" and "shadow", and as if the city had just suffered an invasion, stumbled in with people from everywhere the garden and people: some corduroy trousers and multicolored blanket, and others types sly de la Ribera, dressed in black cloth, fine, jacket over his shoulder, revealing the white sleeve shirt, rubber boots get in the way, and holding a stick thin, almost childlike, always moved with aggressive insolence.
The crowd had the same look in every street, as if the whole city had Dress according to the same pattern.
Cordoba hats white felt or seafaring straw-colored jackets, red ties, and in every mouth a cigar inch.
The Descent of San Francisco was a rush on the endlessly rolling waves of crowds.
The ponies Pamplona, ??covered with borlajes restless and bells rattling, passed like lightning through the crowd by pulling the colored tartanillas, cars stately carriages and English, in whose banks erguíanse as the swaying flowers girls dressed in pink or blue, his face enhanced by the frame of white lace.
The little people, the laying of the sun, went in groups, with the huge boot to the shoulder and Liria cudgel in hand, smelling of wine and shouting, as if he began to feel drunk insolation that awaited them in the square.
The thrill-seekers babieca agolpábanse off the inns where they were staying gangs, patiently awaiting the departure of the bullfighters play with respect to the braid diestrus.
People pushed through with curiosity each time a chopper packaging on the chair and the boy went to the rump riding his pony bony and gaunt, he had to the square with a trot mess.
Among the carriages thundering streets quickly and crossed the center of the city Tables spent the stroller, and behind it a reel that would rent the Pajares.
Doña Manuela preferred site, dusted and touched up with such art, which produced her face Print some sticking out between the festoons of black lace, and in front of her girls hilarious as a bullfighting magazine chrome with low shoe, fishnet stockings, skirt half-step with a net full of strawberry and looking boldly on the white cloud that enveloped their lovely heads, closing over the chest with a bunch of carnations.
In descending of her carriage in front of the plaza, the compliments showered on them, and for all there, up to the mother, breathing loudly and blushed, pleased with the win.
Undoubtedly they were the ones that are most attracted attention across the plaza.
There was only seeing them in the negligently fanning box, while much of the masters of lying, placed standing and turning his back to the ring, looked fixedly, with eyes of desire.
I could not complain about life.
Won as wanted, like a boy with his outfit clear, red tie and the big cigar, which ring kept the paper for everyone to know of its price.
On one side Teresa had, quietly and without feeling the slightest suspicion of infidelity, and the other to Dona Manuela proud of the admiration that she and her children woke up in a part of the square.
You could not ask for more happiness.
On one side the legitimate wife, the other, Dona Manuela, the satisfaction of the flesh the food of vanity, and the two families of which he was the point of attachment, happy, luxurious, drawing public attention thanks to her good luck / that allowed throw handfuls of thousands of pesetas.
The stockbroker, savoring his good fortune, claimed mentally God is very good, and did not know what, given a confidence that will soon be a millionaire teníala by indisputable.
In the back of the box was the son of Tables and the two of Dona Manuela, with twins in hand, watching the look of the plaza.
In the laying of shadow, the circular tiers was a white hat stepping down to the barrier.
Some hoods charged of flowers or shiny hair, standing on the shawls from Manila, broke the monotony the rows of white spots.
The doors of the boxes abríanse noisily, and appeared in the rails, covered with the national colors, white blankets, faces smiling, hair flowers, whole spring was greeted by screaming fans below, standing on wooden benches.
Opposite the sun cracked skin that force out sweat, the smoke was clothes and put on a fire helmet on each head, bewildered, was the demagoguery of the party, waiting impatiently noisy item, so willing to throw into the arena hats in honor of the right, such as banks and sticks in protest
