What kind of art, how great, what style is that?
You certainly write to vulgar people and no finesse, not distinguished spirits.
I would not say who it was until the thirtieth chapter.
Upon hearing this, I do not know what happened to me.
Since I made frank confession of my impressions, although I may be unfavorable, I am compelled to say that the opinion of someone so adept puzzled me, so i didn't get much time to say a word.
Serve flush with that I confess to my singular atonement and to the smug audacity idea of ??convening such enlightened jury, to make known one of the most ridiculous human mind abortions that have been exit.
From his window he constantly looks to the young, and spend the night listening to the sad mayar of tigers (and call for now to cats, to find another animal more poetic), and since there is annihilated in the fool inspires love that mysterious lady, misteriooooosa ...
cally, very languid, with blond hair, very blond and floating, and a waist so .... (In saying this, he made an unusual gesture, determining the thumb and index fingers of both hands a circle no larger than the periphery of an onion.) The paint very sad, always dressed in white, day and night resting on the railing, hand on the cheek, and looking at the vine, climbing plant lizard as balconies, came to his own shoulders. - I warn you - I said sheepishly - that I did not put garden, but street. - No matter - said, - I take off the street and put wall units.
Continue: the would always very sad, and occasionally a tear came to his blue eyes, looking like errant drop spray that stops to rest in the cup of a hyacinth.
Here is how to achieve develop action to see and get to know the two characters.
One day the lady crying more than ever, and looks more firmly into the garden, her white dress is more than ever, more than ever on their hair blond.
A bird that plays in the bushes comes to rest on the vines near her hand the lady, and as seeing the tip of the thumb feel is a cherry, the pike.
The young screams, and at the same time save the frightened little bird, soar, and go after perch in the loft across the street.
The young man who has been eating it with twelve chapters eyes without it being condescending stare.
Sentíame I confused, overwhelmed by the astonishing inventiveness, originality, the wit of the woman, with whom the Safos and Staël were literate three to the room.
Of the other characters in my audience, say anything yet. "Bravo, superb! - Said Cantarranas applauding with vigor and enthusiasm, thereby, that he jumped the wrong button on his shirt stuck, and the tips were detachable neck in the air. " - Do you like my thoughts to you? - Said the poet.
This is the only Canevas, then comes the style and ... - I am excited about the idea - I replied, pointing with her pencil as the magic brush draw your fantasy. - This is the path you should follow he added, giving to Cantarranas a pin to be asserted neck. - Oh!
The resort is lovely bird. - The bird - Cantarranas said - should be the middleman between the white and the young lady South. - Well, I continue to develop the action as follows - .-- Here she continued: the young man took the bird with her delicate fingers and giving him some bread crumbs, was fed several days, getting tame dint of patience.
You see how strange: it was loose in the room without trying to escape.
One day I tied a thread on the leg and threw him to fly, the bird came to rest on the balcony where I was the lady, who stroked a lot and migajitas gave him cake soaked in milk.
This established fast, passionate and volatile match that lasted three months.
This prepares the reader to love the big fuss to be come later. - What tenderness, how soft, how pleasantly! - Duke said at the height of admiration! - I agree the thought - I stated, noting that all discrete device to fit after in my work as best suited me.
After the poet was shown in all its splendor, decorated with gallantry from style, incomparable wit, then let me run and shameful for the difference resulting from the wonderful inventiveness and the dry, barren and birth of my caletre emaciated, How had I dared to continue reading?
Or two pulls to make me open my mouth; and there it had broken the manuscript, if the Duke was the same kindness, not me required to pursue, with prayers and courtesy, who overcame my modesty and changed in value my well-founded fear.
I looked, then, in my manuscript the point where it left off, and read it following: "The young Alexius was poor, very poor. (Okay - said the poet.) His parents had died few years, and only what was wrong with her aunt, who lives in Alicante, live, if living was.
The bad and the worst soup cooked with that Dona Antonia de Trastamara and Peransúrez fed him were such that would not be enough to keep up to a Carthusian.
And yet, Doña Antonia Peransúrez Trastamara and so noble as ugly catadura name, used to complain the guest did not pay, horrible accusation that freezes the blood in the veins, but is true. (The poet articulated a censure me in the heart sounded like an echo loss.) So the real hundred of Alicante came, the poor had nothing to sticks was, indeed, the thing that least needed it.
Then they ate debts and I could not throw into the street without looking out of each paver a creditor.
Since you have to fall back in the bilge. " Upon hearing this, another character that I heard for the first time broke his silence, and with thundering voice, giving a fist on the table that scared us all, said: "It is not only very good, great, amazing.
Mark had been a novelist.
Since married merchant street cloths Posts, left the Muses, who does not much ever produced and helped to make the belly a bad year.
He continued, however, their hobbies, and since it does not deliver the painful work of creation, he would devote himself to criticism, easier and bearable.
Always his novels (the most famous was called The Candle of Anastasio) shone the naked reality.
Of the many differences that existed between his muse and Virgil, the main one being that of D.
Marcos fled the simple and pure nature scenes, and just as the fish does not can live out of water, the aforementioned muse was not at his center were from infected attics, from the damp basement, of all places unpleasant and disgusting.
His paintings Tables were emaciated, and their favorite types the most weird and deformed beings.
A curious fond of statistics, it found that one of his novels came out twenty-eight hunchbacked eighty-eyed, sixty women from these they call them, until two and a half dozen old green, and as many old deceptive.
And such was the temper of the man distinguished, which he saw as God created ugly, sickening and disgusting.
These epithets the fit on each page, strung together like beads.
It is not necessary, no, they roam the world, straining the presses, more than three dozen of his novels, which I think they are read in all the corners of the globe.
In his private life, there were many adventures, each more interesting.
While he was a writer, his fame was great, his hunger much, his own money scarce, the attitude of those we call evil bring.
The editor who bought and published his lucubrations, was not resolved in the pay as in print, infirmity own talent who traded, and D.
Marcos, whose name sounded from the banks of the Llobregat Guadalete until, covered with laurels fainted, not more gold than his fantasy, or other wealth than his glory.
But as luck the person of the distinguished author sack of straw to look like a widow trade Wool and other excesses in the streets of Posts, was tender correspondence, courteous visits honest treatment, and at last Unioliva Hymen, but not all grumbled about that neighborhood by what, how and when the wedding.
What the Muses wept this link, not for cash, because visible in the gap, bartered the low-nutrient writer laurels for the prosaic fill of his new life and accounts hung up his pen a rack, as Hamete so that any trashy novelist played out hereinafter.
After a long honeymoon, which have never seen fabric merchants, are said not always reigned peace at home more Octavian.
They were not satisfied's biographers D.
Marcos in the case of certain fights, who put his wife in danger of being killed by her husband, some attribute it to whims the writer, other more conscientious, and always looking for hidden causes of events human to become growing pessimism infiltróse points so in their thinking, that filled his life with melancholy and ennui.
In the eyes of the profane vulgar, D.
Mark was always the same.
He advised young people seeking guide them along the path of the sewer.
Gave advice whenever it asked for, and not refused to praise the new writers, if your school were colorful, it was bitumen school.
This is the third character of the four who were my audience, and he who exposed their way of thinking, saying: "It is not only very good.
You have to paint life as it is: disgusting, vile, rude.
The world is this: not for us to reform it, supposing it to our whim and fancy, we meet only portray things as they are, and things are ugly.
This young man you've painted there is so bright, and he needs a good dose of black.
Today we do not know how to give chiaroscuro style, and since I have stopped writing certain people that I know, is the novel on the floor.
If you want to do an exemplary work, surrounds the gentleman of all kinds of pity and misery, you throw on him the sinister shadow of society, and such society is most revolting, disgusting and filthy that I have thrown in his face.
And then if you should offer a moral lesson to his readers, have the boy exchange of overnight, by sheer force of hunger and satiety, in a despicable creature, revealing and the bottom of junk in the heart of every human being there.
Introduce you to all the dark reality of life, bracts in this ocean of mud, unable to float, and drowning choking, drowning ....
But, yes, let you fall in love with the lady hydrophobia opposite, because in that great dramatic device has to be based around the fictional building.
If I were in charge of developing the plan, I would do so ingenious, never seen or novels or dramas. - To see, to see? - Interrogate all, I enter for the sake of my literary thoughts friend, others by curiosity and desire to see in all their horror that the intellectual cesspool atrocious ingenuity. - I would do next - continued: - I would be very desperate, not knowing what to do to communicate and engage with the lady across the street.
Suppress that of the bird, which is unbearable. (The poet left betrayed, with a wave of indignation, her outraged mother's love.) He thinks sometimes get a bandit to rob the lady, others would think burning the house to get the lady in his arms.
Meanwhile becomes thin, yellow, cadaverous-looking a fool or sorcerer, the house is falling apart, and their misery is forced to eat rats. (Cantarranas closed his eyes after looking at the sky in anguish.) One day he passes the trick lies a clever, and for this I have to assume that lives, not in the house opposite but in the attic of the house.
