He spoke enthusiastically about the operation of branding, that Don Fernando had never seen.
The yegüerizos sow casting their ties to the wild horses, holding them by the ears, while the iron was heated in a fire of dried cow dung, and to be the red mark, wham, applied it to the side, burning the hair and skin being marked forever the cross and the crescent.
And with some sympathy for Salvatierra, knowing thus ignored some things that were for the most interesting overseer of the world, he continued explaining the regime to which young horses are subjected, all the operations carried out by voluntary in their enthusiasm for the rider.
First the moor, coming from the freedom of the pasture, to become accustomed to eat at the manger, then went to the field, compared to the farmhouse, with big head and a long rope, to go round like a ring, and learn to dams, to put the leg back where they put the front, or beyond, if possible.
After that came the operation supreme place the chair on the backs, their wild nervousness accustomed to this bonded; accustom them to the crupper, and stirrups.
He spoke with pride of their energy fighting with wild beasts and willingness to neigh and bit the air, kicking, rising vertically or dunking your head on the ground while coceaban in space, but so could be freed from the oppression of their legs steel, until finally, after a mad race, which seemed to find the obstacles to crush the rider, became sweaty and defeated, submitting entirely to the hand the editor.
In came a young man of small stature, moving cautiously sideways, as if afraid touching the wall.
In its early shrinkage seemed to implore forgiveness for all that do.
Her eyes glowed in the dark as well as strong and sharp teeth.
Approaching in light of the candlestick, Salvatierra was set at the copper color of his face, in the corneas of eyes, which seemed stained with snuff, in the hands of two colors, pink palm and the back of a black man who became even more intense under the fingernails.
Despite the cold, wearing summer blouse, a pleated guayabera, still wet from the rain, and the head was two hats, one inside the other, of different colors, as their hands.
The below showing a brand new gray and white on the underside of its wings, the top was old, a reddish black, with frayed edges.
Rafael grabbed the lad by the shoulder, making it balanced, and presented it to Salvatierra with a comic gravity. - This is Capers, which Nah, you probably have heard.
The more gypsy thief too Jerez.
If there were any justice, would have long ago dao club in the plaza of the Jail.
The overseer continued frowning and deep voice: - Work at Matanzuela with his family for many years, but is a thief like gypsies toos and should be in prison. "Nah, you know why it comes with two hats?
And clasped her hands in despair, looking eagerly Salvatierra and telling children: - Nah, you do not believe him, Zeno, is very bad and I say that by rotting blood.
For the salusita my mare that too is a lie ...
And he explained the mystery of the two overlapping hats had soaked to the ears around his face in a halo of rogue two colors.
The one below was the new, the Holidays and unsheathed when I went to Jerez.
In the days of work did not dare leave at the farm for fear of the companions, who allowed all sorts of jokes with him because was "a poor gypsy", and covered it with the old so it does not lose his gray and silky it was his pride.
Exacerbating the overseer continued to gypsy peasant humor that delights in anger the poor in spirit and the homeless. - Hey, capers, you know who is this guy?
It is the gift Fernando Salvatierra.
In the last two hours Gañanía Jablan no more than him.
M 'cones glad one preson so fine and so one.
Well mers is that their is someone: has the face of gobernaor.
Salvatierra smiled at the gypsy's fawning obsequiousness.
Unhappy that he did not know categories; judged by the reputation, and considering him a powerful figure, an authority, trembling, hiding his embarrassment with fawning smile of races ever prosecuted. - Don Fernando - continued the overseer .-- Nah, you have friends abroad could fix the trip to Capers.
To see if that land was so lucky as their bonuses.
And speaking of Capers, gypsy dancers who gave a hit in Paris and in many Russian cities, whose names could not remember the overseer.
His portraits included to on boxes of matches, the newspapers talked about them, they had diamonds in abundance, dancing theaters and palaces and one of them had won a Grand Duke, or panjandrum Rafael remembered what another title, taking her to a castle where he lived like a queen. - And that too, Don Fernando, a wise monkeys, so ugly and black as his cousin here today; a gawky, which I have seen small chickpeas robbing farmhouses and other seeds vivacious rats, no more than one gypsy and a shameless that put coloraos men.
Their premiums were about culling not written to the family and is not sent or this. (And did crack the nail of a thumb between the teeth of a horse.) - Breast: paece lie that my uncle to behave so badly with his family, being a cañí.
But far from being indignant, he broke into praise of Uncle capers, a man of initiatives, tired of going hungry in Jerez and be in danger of going to jail if strayed a donkey or a mule, had thrown the guitar over his shoulder, not stopping with all their "wins" as he called the daughters, even the Paris.
Instead of premiums he and his brothers would enjoy so much wealth.
And he claimed in good faith neglecting as insignificant the difference of sex, not giving any value to the ugliness spicy cousins, believing that his fortune was due to skill in singing, for which the pobresita of his mare, his cousin Mari-Cruz and he was worth far more than all the Capers who roamed the world.
The overseer, looking sad gypsy ofrecíale protection.
There was Don Fernando, with its influences of character, we had booked a job.
But fearing a foul if he did not thanks to that man, overwhelmed with sugary words Salvatierra, as he looked the overseer, not knowing where I was going to stop. - If, porridge - Rafael .-- Already have continued employment.
The breast will make Seviya executioner or Jerez: what you choose.
He paused in his cursing, seeing that they served to delight the overseer, and added with malicious intent: - Gave premit mers that when you go to his vineyard of Don Paul, you cunt-faced RESIBIR Lent.
Rafael and not laugh.
He feared that the gypsy, in the presence of Don Fernando, spoke of her love godfather's daughter, and was quick to dismiss. - Take a cigarette and get out ...
Capers was due to the docility of a dog.
Saying goodbye to Salvatierra extended his mulatto hand, repeating that he waited in the Gañanía and people walked to revolt presonages know that a so high was in Matanzuela.
When he left, the overseer spoke to Don Fernando de los Capers and other Roma from the farmhouse.
Were families who worked years and years in the same house, as if they were part of it.
Were easier to handle, men and women, that other people of the Gañanía.
With them there was no fear rebellion, strikes, or threats.
They were both beggars and thieves, but shrink from threatening gestures with the docility of a persecuted race.
Rafael had only seen the gypsies working the land in this part of Andalusia.
The people love the horses seemed haberles expelled from the industry, which was his worldwide, forcing them to seek life in the cottages.
Women were better than men: dry, black, angular, with masculine trousers under the skirts, doblábanse the whole day to weed the wheat and starting seeds.
A Sometimes, when not watching closely, apoderábase of them breed laziness, desire to remain motionless, staring at the horizon without seeing anything or think about anything.
But so sensed the proximity of the overseer, ran the alarm at the slang that was his only force strength, which isolated them from the hostility of colleagues. - Cha, hustle, which sinela er jambo! "Listen, working, watching the master!" And each one gave his task, with zeal, with efforts so funny, often Rafael could not help laughing.
The dust fell like rain water on the stones of the courtyard.
The overseer made a gesture of resignation and called Zarandillo, who was on the block.
The old will serve as a passenger, he stayed there. - I should enter the Gañanía, Don Fernando.
You have to keep some one of authority; if not, take one and trust is lost.
