The starry sky flaunted her pale fire, earth slept quietly, and when was heard in the distance a barking dog or the crowing of a rooster.
I remembered things and past events, evoked painful memories of childhood, grief and bitterness children, the sad days of school, the melancholy of first love.
One by one they paraded loving relatives before me, loyal servants, friends never forgotten.
In reviewing the pages of the booklet of my life I thought I was going through lengthy, desolate street between two rows of graves whitened here and there in the shade of willows and cypresses.
No had only two: the kindly doctor and the schoolmaster's unfortunate ....
I found thinking about the happy days of my first love.
Lean, pale, ethereal, ideal, that image came to remind me dear forgotten oaths, promises.
Sad, sorrowful, weeping, seemed to say: - "I offer your soul and your life, you gave me your heart, and gave them to another ....
I believed then - poor fellow dreamer! - A rising of fire would be dull and foggy for the evil, that the lilies of the river would not have flavors for the wicked, that the rain would silence enmudecerían fearful their music and when to pass under its arches, vaults beneath their foliage, stained hearts.
I thought that love was the real prize and palm of goodness, and to love and be loved, to love as tall as I was and quite understand, elevation sublime, constant desire for perfection, never-ending aspiration at all, it was necessary resemble the soul, so pristine and pure, the flower opens its dew crowned corolla intact loving the breath of zephyrs.
I spent the night in the window.
Orion fell into the sunset, and the truck was hiding its stars deep in mourning cloud that rose slowly growing in the humid valleys Pluviosilla.
The dream squinted my eyes, and was I to pick, when grave and majestic bell rang the parish church.
Ringing, mysterious and solemn that announces the arrival of the day, they repeated from mountain to mountain states the inhabitants of the mountain that has raised Villaverde.
A bronze sacred echoes answering the river, forests, orchards and poultry.
Currents Stony change of pace, there in the thickets chorale preludes, loving flutter, and begins all over the movement and life.
It seems that the winds are rushing to pour through the valleys the scent of the flowers opened during the night.
The highlights of the campaign were heavy and slow ....
XXVI I heard noise in the next room.
Pepilla aunt had risen, and soon to call.
And the good lady laughed and joked like a child.
Still did not stop the music of a thousand bells villaverdinas.
The Parish, serious, solemn as an archdeacon when she sings the Preface in the Mass of Corpus, the San Francisco Seriot, circular rhythm playing, round the twist, as in the string Sunday, the San Juan tune and shrill, the steeple of the church of San Antonio arming an uproar without as well as in an orchestra cymbals and chinoiserie, in the belfry of the convent of Santa Teresa bells went crazy, and the cracked bell of Christ sounded smug and conceited to resemble a cracked tenor that does not leave the theater.
One ring varied and capricious, without unity or measure, so different from another that are advertised on special occasions and holidays classics, had something the wonderful modern music it seems that the tools are free, your account walking free, neglecting time and discipline, fleeing from each other, but suddenly come together and agree on rare and unique harmony that first surprised, then subjugation, and, finally, makes us silent woods, region or celajes cloudless sky, cerulean seas asleep.
The music of the towers fell on the city in fresh waves and spread through the valley a flooded river way that would escape the ravines.
Do not know why I was afraid that Aunt Pepilla knew I had not tried to sleep.
Rid the intact bed sheets and blankets stirring, took his hat and overcoat, and went into the corridor.
Excruciating had to climb hill.
When we climbed the stairs we saw people crowded into the door.
Elbows on the fence we beheld the spectacle of this splendid entrancing twilight Villaverde landscape lit by the red glare of the rising day on fire furnace with reflections of the colored clouds on the horizon that rowed. - Angelina - I cried, shaking hands with the girl - you love me forever, forever, as I love you? - Always! - Answered trembling .-- As today, and tomorrow, even after death!
In the dim light of dawn, it bathed in celestial clearness the face of Angelina, I crying, that two tears rolled down her cheeks. - Girl! - Cried my aunt from the threshold of the temple .-- What are you doing?
The towers released the last ring, the body broke its streams of mystical harmonies, and their solemn chords joined children's choir festival voices, whistles warblers of tintinantes noisy tambourines.
In my house, my poor house, which I looked like a castle.
If anything, and that from time to time, to visit dominoes or chatting Andrew.
On Sunday, back from Mass to talk to the aunts and Angelina, reading, to write ....
In the afternoon the patio.
The maid and I Regab plants, and then we we installed the orange foot.
We cut violets and roses, and we amused ourselves in making bouquets, determined each that theirs was the best.
Angelina used to weave a garland that mixed ferns in a wonderful way.
There are variety of them in Villaverde, and our garden grew the most beautiful.
Near the fountain, on the rocks, and trunks old, there were some who seemed feathers, silk ribbons, strips of satin.
After the play, ran to hear the verdict of the ladies.
For the sick were better Mine, for Angelina Aunt Pepa were the prettiest.
The award of those contests Flower was a loving embrace of the wretched old woman, which could only prolong hand to pat the winner.
But there was always for the young tender phrase, a compliment those trembling lips, at times made for a smile of pain.
Served after the bouquets to decorate the small altar of the Virgin, before which burned a a butterfly all the time.
Placed the offering we returned to the patio.
So did Angelina another bunch, a very cute ramilletín, to glad my bedroom, placed in a glass never missing glass, Diamela, carmine or heliotrope blossoms fragrant.
While the young flowers available, confident that the aunts could not hear and that Juana had left, we spoke of our love.
Masses of Christmas gave us time to talk very comfortable.
We went, we left behind Aunt Pepa, I gave the girl's arm, and from the house to the church that was a pleasure chatting.
More than once begged my aunt to tell me the story of Angelina, I asked insistently I referred to it as had been under the protection of P.
I did not cause surprise the singular discretion of my aunts.
So there were always all of family.
This reserve was injurious to them on occasion.
Until I was twenty-five years I knew my uncle Albert, a brave soldier who died vomit victim in Yucatán was not my mother's brother.
My grandparents do not know where they picked him up, gave her upbringing, name and race, and they all believed brother of my aunts.
Registering a shelf left by the wayside I found several documents, letters from the grandfather and a copy of his will.
To tell the truth, I wanted to know the story takes Angelina, but I never dared to speak this.
She was ahead of my desires, and one afternoon, sitting at the foot of the orange, while available on his knees a violet beam, separating those that were withering and meal worms severing the stem and huddled in groups, he said: - Look, my Rorra: love me very, very, how you want your Angelina.
Perhaps I should tell it before giving listen to your love before confessing my love.
Many times I wanted to talk about it, but or I have not had the courage to do so, or you, with your loving words, you have distracted my thoughts.
It is good to know everything.
So you can not say you never cheated
