At dawn he was back in the market.
Got up at three, loaded with baskets Toni picked vegetables to close the night before between oaths and vows against a naughty life in which both have to work, and to grope for the path, guided in Dark as the good child of the garden, going to Valencia, while her husband, that good boy who cost so dear, still snoring in the hot students, well wrapped in Carrion rugs marriage.
Those who bought vegetables in bulk to resell it to this young woman knew before dawn and was in the market of Valencia, sitting in their baskets, shivering under the thin and threadbare shawl.
I looked with envy, not realized, those who could drink a cup of coffee to combat the cool morning.
And with the patience of a beast submissive waiting to give him money for vegetables that had been set in their complex calculations, to keep Toni and bring the house forward.
After the sale ran back toward his cabin, hoping to save as soon as one hour way.
Came back in office to develop a second industry: after vegetables milk.
And pulling the halter of a cow blonde, who had hit the tail as loving Satellite a playful calf, returned to the city with his wand under his arm and tin as to serve customers.
La Roche, and dubbed the cow for his blond hair, bellowed sweet, shuddering under a burlap trappings, hurt by the cool of the morning, turning his eyes wet towards the hut, he stayed behind with his stable black, relaxed, in which straw smelly thought with pleasure of the dream unfulfilled.
Pepeta the herding with his staff.
And the cow and the calf trotted through downtown Alboraya Road, deep, muddy, deeply furrowed lanes.
On the slopes side, one arm in the basket and the other swinging, spent endless cigar beads and spinners of silk, all the virginity of the garden, going to work in factories, leaving with the flutter of her skirts a trail of chastity rude and rough.
Fields scattered by the blessing of God.
After the trees and houses that blocked the horizon as the sun peeped huge red wafer, horizontal casting golden needles forced to cover their eyes.
The mountains in the background and towers of the city were taking a rosy tint, the puffs that rowed by coloreábanse sky as skeins of silk crimson ditches and puddles in the road seemed fishiest fire.
It sounded inside the barracks dragging the broom the clash of crockery, all the noises of the morning cleaning.
Agachábanse women in slopes, taking the basket next to the laundry.
Jumped on the brown paths rabbits, with his devious smile, teaching, to flee, heading for the pink buttocks the button-shaped tail, and on piles of manure blonde, cock, surrounded by his cloqueantes odalisques, uttered a cry of jealous sultan, with the ardent pupil chins red with anger.
Pepeta, insensible to this awakening he witnessed daily, continued their march, more more quickly, on an empty stomach, aching legs and undergarments impregnated a sweat of his own weakness and poor white blood, that perhaps escaped during for weeks, contravening the rules of nature.
The avalanche of hard working people that was heading to Valencia filled bridges.
Pepeta passed among workers in the suburbs who came to the lunch bag neck slope, stopped at the octroi of Consumption to take his ticket - a few coins that all ached on the soul - and went through the deserted streets, cheering the cowbell de la Rocha with badajeo pastoral melody, sounding to the sleepy bourgeois with green meadows and idyllic pastoral scenes.
He had the poor woman parishioners scattered throughout the city.
His departure was a convoluted journey through the streets, stopping before the gates closed, a knock here, three and ringing away, and always, then the shrill, sharp cry, which seemed impossible could arise from its poor and satin chest: "The lleeet!" Jug in hand down the maid disheveled in sandals, with swollen eyes, to receive the milk, or the old caretaker, still with blanket that had to go to the Mass of the morning.
At eight o'clock, after serving all customers, Pepeta was seen near the neighborhood of Fishermen.
As also found in the office, poor orchard went bravely into the dirty alleys, which seemed dead at that hour.
Always, on entering, felt a certain uneasiness, instinctive repugnance weak stomach.
But its spirit of honest and sick woman known to overcome this impression, and continued on with some pride vanity, a pride of female caste, comforting to see that she, weak and overwhelmed by poverty, was still superior to others.
In the closed and silent houses came the breath of cheap debauchery, loud and undisguised: the smell of spicy meat and rotten, wine and sweat.
Through the cracks of doors seemed to escape the brutal breath and sleep after a night landslide caresses of fierce and drunken amorous whims.
Pepeta heard his name called.
At the door of a ladder beckoning a good girl, bare-chested, ugly, no other charm than a youth about to disappear, the eyes wet, the twisted ribbon, and cheeks blush stains from the night before: a cartoon, a clown for vice.
Pepeta raised his head, fixed his eyes for the first time in the slut, and seemed to hesitate. - Rosario! ...
The harlot, by custom of the trade, tried to accommodate with cynical smile, the gesture skeptical who knows the secret of life and believes in nothing, the exclamations of shocked styling.
But the gaze of the eyes eventually clear Pepeta embarrassing, and lowered head as if to mourn.
No, it was not bad.
He had worked in factories, had served as home to a family, but finally gave her sisters example, tired of being hungry, and there he was, receiving sometimes affection and other blows, until they burst forever.
It was natural: where no father and mother, the family ends well.
Forgot Pepeta cold and reserved attitude to join the outrage of the girl.
Rosario was encouraged with the conversation seemed to rejuvenate with this childhood friend.
This liked: busting, which is the Holy hiciesen the sons of Don Salvador rascal! ...
It was all I could comfort her.
I was very grateful Pimento and to all the folks they had prevented other work that you enter of right belonged to his family.
And if someone wanted to grab something, well known was the remedy ....
The girl was whipped up, shining in his eyes sparks of ferocity.
Revived in the harlot passive beast accustomed to the beatings, the daughter of the garden, which is born from the shotgun hanging behind the door and holidays and aims to delight the smoke of gunpowder.
After speaking of the sad past, awakens curiosity was wondering Rosario all there, and ended in Pepeta.
Everyone could see she was not happy.
Still young, age revealed only clear those big eyes virgin, dupes and timid.
Good boy, yes, he shook everyone in the tavern Cup on Sunday afternoon, when he played the trick with the most handsome in the garden, but at home should be an insufferable husband ....
A booming voice came down like thunder tomboy through the gap in the ladder. - Elisa! ...
Rosario began to laugh herself.
Now called Elisa: Do not you know?
And mimicked with rustic grace the voice of the invisible tomboy.
But in spite of his joy, was quick to withdraw.
He feared the above.
The booming voice or The Lord of the milk could give something bad for his delay.
He climbed the ladder faster, After much to recommend Pepeta that ever pass through there, to remember together the things from the garden.
The weary bell rang de la Rocha over an hour through the streets of Valencia.
Released the withered teats to milk the last drop of tasteless product of a poor grass leaves cabbage and waste, and finally undertook Pepeta back to his hut.
The poor peasant walking sad and pensive under the impression that meeting.
Remembered like it was the day before the terrible tragedy that engulfed the Barret with whole family.
Since then, the fields over a hundred years ago the ancestors of the poor working labrador had been left by the wayside.
His cabin, deserted, without a hand merciful to cast a patch to the roof and a handful of mud cracks walls, was sinking slowly.
Ten years of continuous flow together had managed to ruin that people do not take notice already on it.
But this morning, Pepeta, influenced by his recent encounter, he noticed debris and to stopped on the way for a better view.
The Barret fields, or rather for her, "the Jew and his unholy Don Salvador heirs "were a blur of misery amid the fertile garden, worked and smiling.
Sorry to ruin that mood, squeezing the heart.
An entire family ....
There he knelt, lay on his stomach to peer through the reeds like a Bedouin lurking, and after a few minutes he returned to run, lost in this labyrinth of paths, each of which led to a hut, to a field where men hunched by shone his hoe like a flash of steel
