Took possession of my mind a sweet melancholy are harmonious with the vagueness of my thoughts and especially with the respect they inspired me virginal beauty of those places.
Very soon my fellow surrendered journey the rest, the fires were extinguished; grew dark, and majestic silence of the jungle was scarcely interrupted by the rustling of the leaves slightly choppy in the treetops, or by the murmur of the waters.
Only I had stayed up and can not forget the happy impressions of this evening, whose memory has been more than once to delight hereinafter my spirit again. " The dress worn by Indian moxeños to travel, consists only of a very long shirt sleeveless, made from the bark of bibosi abounds, as noted, on the banks of Mamore, mainly below the Exaltation: the bark of a species of moral, which located on the shores of all rivers of the country neighbors Yuracares, also serves for the same.
When passing the Indians for such spot, provided always stop for shirts, echoing throughout the woods for a few moments with the ax retail and the noise made by falling trees blows to the strongman.
Preferably Elígense those newer and less knotty, first cut a piece to recognize its quality.
Once on the ground as the tree chosen, is cut off the branches, saying then on trunk length of each sleeve by a circular incision, after having practiced a longitudinal opening, is inserted under the bark a small stick, or smooth and sharp, to detach from the woody portion without tearing.
After this operation, shirt is a cut whose extremity is necessary to turn to outside in order to separate the exterior, rough and hard, from the inner, white and compact.
However, still lack the preparation work, nothing expensive by the way, and that comes from follows.
Every Indian Forest brings a piece of tree on which it stands, on the bank of the river, the crust should be prepared; and provided with a square hammer, grooved transversely, beats on it strongly, with one hand as soon as soon with the other to detach from each other all the fiber after having maceado on both sides, stretched, followed by washing in the river, then back to macearla still for a few moments, and finally extends like a piece of canvas, no more missing, so the shirt can fill your office, but sew up the sides and make an opening to pass the head.
There in the country of a plant called Itiro Yuracares, which are served to Moxos a purple dye eSCelente these shirts.
When the crusts are already prepared, the bend in a particular way to soak in that after dyeing, resulting from disposition of the folds, boxes near perfectly equal.
All sailors INDIGENOUS that flow from that country carry this purple shirt, and from afar would think seeing them is a choir bishops.
If these raids come to find two boats of the same nation, the Indians divided each other, with a detachment fraternal, everything they have: truth is that they all considered as members of one family when they came from the same nation.
The unfortunate Indians enjoy in Moxos a lot less freedom than in Chiquitos, having no one day you can have at his own discretion, since the days of rest on Sundays and other holiday, are entirely devoted to religious practices.
The remaining year are assumed to be occupied for the State, if not actually make it work tirelessly for the benefit of employees, keeping them, in work requirements, still less consideration to the women, who resent it, from being sterilized early.
Never has been greater slavery and despotism under a Liberal government.
It should be noted that before 1832 the chiefs of the republic completely ignored what happened in the provinces away from the center, considered in some ways as private possessions of employees to whose interests the little picture much zeal manifested by the supreme rulers.
Every fortnight is distributed in a number of cotton seeds, giving them each a flake india twenty ounces to around fifteen days should this file yarn.
Delivery will be made as follows.
Placed the chief in front of the school with some scales to check if the ball of thread, which deposes every entering India has the required weight of four ounces.
As they pass under the Indian instálanse runners to wind thread: completed this operation, the re-call list to verify again the weight and also refinement, giving it lashes at the present too thick.
Get after each india, in exchange for his ball of string, a piece of soap produced in the same mission.
In Chiquitos and not punished to the women from the time he administered the province governor Don Marcelino de la Peña.
In Moxos employee greed perpetuated and even increased Draconian punishment to the natives, and the slightest fault or by the mere whim an administrator, a priest or a chieftain, when not tied to a pole make them lie belly to flog.
There are examples of Indians who have been punished for having distracted and non welcomed the chief.
As Moxos cattle abound in every fifteen days, in the day Saturday, is a distribution meat.
Are killed regularly from fifteen to twenty animals, according to the population of missions.
To proceed to this distribution, established by the Jesuits, lead herders slaughtered on the number of animals is necessary, and after they are slaughtered, make as many servings are few families, then placing in rows on piebles lying on the ground, all these parts.
The chief one hand and the other given Alferes the voice to the interpreters to call in sections, first to all married women, then widows, single women and then to the children who came to take their ration from by two rows of prosecutors armed with a whip to keep the order, which is strictly observed.
Great fun on these occasions to see the familiarity of gallinasos, these parasites the civilized and savage man, who come with incredible courage as if calling also his part, mingling with the Indians and often quarreling with them pocesion a piece of meat.
One of these birds, which was the band's boldest, most known for some signals, particularly that lame, always attended distributions Concepcion.
Scarcely appeared in the air, with shouts of joy saludábanlo all Indians for whom it was already an object of fun, so it was never made the slightest damage.
This Welcome guest had not failed once in the space of ten consecutive years and was already so spoiled that carried the meat to the baskets of the Indians.
The day they celebrate the feast of the mission, they doubled the Indians regular rations: Administrators have the privilege of having meanwhile fresh meat every two days.
All this consumption met the extraordinary that provision is made for canoes, when People traveling to a category, each mission has a total of just more or less than five hundred to nine hundred head per year.
Baures in the mission and that of Carmen, a tradition still seen as entirely forgotten in the other missions.
When it any traveler of distinction, all indigenous will visit the day after Sunday Mass, carrying each a present, which is cocoa, vanilla, monkey fur, ducks, chickens, or anything else you can call the attention of the stranger, who in turn must correspond with other gifts, but if fame bulking their donations, the whole town was gathered together at their doors, and I must rely a prosecutor to put an end to such an assault in nonsense.
The women use the tipoi [1] without any adornment, but a very fine fabric, some of them pintorreado usually wear black.
