However, neither were lower risk, and no less heroic sacrifices of those who invaded the other parts of America, and to ponder what it cost the occupation of Paraguay, just Schmidel to follow the rapid but masterly look that gives over twenty years he spent in the New World, surrounded by people of a wild and savage nature.
The year of 1534, I left Antwerp sailed for Spain, arrived at Cadiz in 14 days, sailing 480 miles, and saw a whale off the coast of 35 steps, which filled 30 barrels oil.
Increased this anxiety have already missed the cats, mice, snakes and other little creatures that they used to tune it unclean, and ate up the shoe and other leather.
It was then ate three Spanish a horse which had secretly stolen, and having known, confessed tormented the theft, and were hanged, and at night were three Spanish, and cut off the thighs and other pieces of meat, not to starve.
Another Spanish, having a brother who died him, he ate. [8] CHAPTER X.
The navigation of some of the Rio la Plata above.
Displaying the Governor that people could not stay there, he had put together four brigs with 40 men each, and three boats or boats, and gather the people and to Jorge Lujan, 350 men to ascend up the river to reconnoiter the Indians and find supplies.
But the Indians felt ourselves, with their villages burned all the food and how could serve as a relief, and fled, but Buenos Aires drinks at a little, which we distributed to half ounces of bread ration, but as it was so short, half starved people in this journey.
He was surprised General to see so few people, until he knew the reasons referrals told Jorge Lujan.
Site, taking and burning the city of Buenos Aires.
As went sailing the Parana River Plate, with 400 soldiers.
Juan Oyola led to the 400 soldiers of the Adelantado D.
Pedro de Mendoza: sailed in launches and small boats up the river Parana, and at two months, at a distance of 84 leagues, we came across Indian towns, which met four leagues we arrived: llámanlos Timbúes, and we Buena Esperanza.
Peace came about 400, who inhabit a island in canoes, each one will fit 16 Indians, and received us very well.
Pedro de Mendoza the chief gave the Indians called Chera-wolf, a shirt, a red cap, a sickle and other things, that took them willingly and took us to his village, and gave us plenty of hunting and fishing, we received great joy, because if the journey had lasted ten days, we had all starved, as had happened to 50 of the board.
These Indians Timbúes bring, on both sides of the nose, a star stone inlaid white and blue are large and high, the Indian women, girls and old, hideous, bloody wounds and faces, and naked, except cotton cloth that covers from the waist to the knees.
They have these people, nor have they ever had another meal that hunting and fishing will be 15.000 or more Indian warriors.
Its tree canoes are 80 feet long and three wide, and sailing, rowing (no mistake) fishermen mode of Germany.
Returning to Spain D.
Pedro de Mendoza, died on the voyage.
Four years were in that town, but our Head D.
Pedro de Mendoza [9], was so sick that he could not move hand or foot: so, as well as having spent more than 40.000 ducats effective on this day, he returned to Buenos Aires in two of the four brigs, with 50 soldiers, and from there to Spain, where they arrived, having died miserably to halfway, and ordered in his will more people be sent to Rio de la Plata, with supplies, merchandise and other necessities, as he had given before leaving.
And having reached to Spain, two brigs, the King's ministers sent two boatloads of people, with others who had provided.
Alonso Cabrera is sent from Spain to Rio de la Plata.
Was as captain of these two ships Alonso Cabrera, [10] who brought 200 Spanish and supplies for two years.
Came to Buenos Aires, where 100 men were still the year that we 1539.
Went to the island after the Timbúes, arranged with John Oyola dispatched a ship Spain, according to the order who brought the Council of the Indies, with copious relationship quality of these lands and peoples, their people and other circumstances.
John stood in line Oyola with Alonso Cabrera, Domingo Martinez de Irala and the other captains, to pass shown, and was found to have 550 soldiers, including those who had come again, resolved to leave 150 in Thimphu, (because there was no room on the ships), and its captain and governor to Charles Dubrin, who had been page of the King.
To continue the voyage up the Parana river, towards Coronda.
In eight brigs put the remaining 400 men, and left the port of Good Hope Paraná river above: we another river, called Paraguay, we had news, and whose Indian banks were populated Carias, with plenty of corn, apples and root (that they made wine), fish, beef, sheep, as large as mules, deer, pigs, ostriches, chickens and geese, which will be discussed in chap. 20.
Having sailed four leagues, we the first day to the nation Coronda.
His Indians are high, and bring about a nose pebbles, and the women walk as those mentioned above.
Are similar to Thimphu and inhabit these islands to 12.000 of War: mantiénense hunting and fishing.
They have great abundance otter skins, rescued from everything they had, of Accounts, glass, mirrors, combs, knives and hooks.
We stayed two days, and gave us two Indians cavities that had captivated for us as guides and interpreters.
We arrived at the Galgaisi and Macurendas.
We continued our journey, we reached another nation called Galgaisi, [11] that could put 40.000 Indian war.
Indians also bring their two stones next to the nose, such as Coronda; and are of the same language as Timbúes: It is 30 miles from their island
