Doña Beatriz did not know what to say after all, was silent, and let go as you don Braulio wanted.
The three took a stroller with mustache and went to the Gardens.
Along the way, said Don Braulio: - I think, and I'm sorry that you are going to annoy.
We have no friends.
If you do not know anybody, if no one speaks, well that neither you nor I know yet of memory.
Talk, we tell new things, we shall the gathering of the three, we'll hear the music and cool. - To take the air - said Don Braulio - the same is to go there than the Prado. - And still save money for the tickets - Beatriz said.
Ines was silent, and left to continue the dialogue between husband and wife. - I do not mean expenditure poverty, Beatriz.
You know that I'm not mean, though I am poor. - I know.
I suspect not think it hurts to spend money on gifts.
I say this only to realize that, view things as you see them, is silly go to the Gardens, but I, and Agnes certainly more than I see them through another prism.
We like to see people, but not repaired by us.
Although we do not forge the illusion or hope or even desire be seen and admired, want to see and admire the show, the beauty and elegance of others. - You're right, my dear, you're right.
I forget you're a girl.
Your tastes are as a girl.
Mal did in marrying a man ...
Everyone who knows me will know you, and, knowing, estimarte can not but by what you're worth that much, and not because you are my husband.
Those who are known only as husbands is because otherwise they do not deserve to be.
No one would remember of them but for their wives.
As for your age, your darkness and your poverty, I fall in love again, well you know, that youth, brilliance and wealth in any other.
If something is worth my love, it bathes your soul and feel rejuvenated.
Don Braulio, who was sitting in the mustache, hearing phrases such as loving mouth linda could not contain his excitement, he burst into tears, holding the hand of his wife, kissed passionately.
Doña Beatriz in her hand felt a tear fell on it to give the kiss Don Braulio
