Y the bully, closing the cabin, bed.
The corral, the barn, pens, were the work of his father, and that cap of straw, as high, so slender, with two small crosses at the ends, had raised him again replacing the old, which was water everywhere.
And his handiwork was also the edge of the well, the pillars of the arbor, weirs, above which showed their plumes of flowers and carnations dompedro.
He reached into his belt matches the strip of cardboard that served to light their cigars.
At last it was his, God well knew, and could destroy your finances before you see it in the hands of thieves.
But to go and burn down their old house felt a sense of horror, as if he were to he bodies of all his ancestors, and threw the match down.
And so it remained until near dawn, cutting, crushing with crazy kicking, swearing loudly, roaring curses, until exhaustion finally calmed his anger, and threw in a groove like a child crying, thinking that the earth would henceforth be her bed eternal and only work begging on the roads.
He was awakened by the first rays of the sun hurting your eyes and the happy chatter of birds jumping around his head, drawing his lunch the remains of the destruction night.
Pimento and his wife called him from further, inviting him to take something.
As he passed the tavern Cup, went into it.
Some roads in the neighborhood spoke to him to pity his misfortune, inviting him to drink, and he hastened to accept.
Wanted something about that cold that he had gotten into the bones.
And he, as sober, he drank one after another two glasses of brandy, which fell like waves of fire in his stomach weary.
His face colored, becoming then a deathly pallor, her eyes vetearon blood.
The road was pitied him expressive and confident, almost as an be happy.
I had not lost everything.
He still had the best of the house, the sickle of his grandfather, a gem that did not want to change or for fifty bushels of good land.
And he drew from his girdle the curved steel, pure and bright: a tool for fine tuning and cutting very subtle, that he said Barrett was in the air from a cigarette paper.
Paid the road, and driving their beasts alejáronse to the city, filling the road of squeaky wheels.
The old man was still more than an hour in the bar, talking to himself, noting that the head it was, until, disturbed by the harsh gaze of the owners, who guessed his condition, felt a vague impression of shame and left without saying goodbye, walk unsteadily.
I could not take your memory a tenacious memory.
I saw with my eyes closed a large vegetable garden orange that was more than an hour away from Benimaclet and sea.
There was left him many times in their affairs, and he was now, to see if the devil was so good did you encounter with the master, which was rare day not inspect your eyes miser the beautiful trees one by one, as if he counted the oranges.
Came after two hours of walking, stopping many times to his body poise, that is balanced on the legs unsafe.
do not play ....
Barrett remained planted on the bank like an idiot.
The landscape breathed peace and honest bestiality was a Moorish Arcadia.
No one as he tended the cattle and watch the march.
Watched at all hours, was always close to nag front, avoiding the deep potholes and missteps, and yet, if a truck poured was his, if an animal fell ill because of the rains was surely Batiste in spite of paternal care with which he rushed to cover the flanks of the beasts burlap trappings fell just four drops
