The young suspected for some time for other reasons, has requested permission to withdraw and not denied.
Is as pale as death ...
The truth is, these unexpected news had aroused in me many pleasant emotions and painful at the time, I felt close to fainting. * * * * * * * * * * * Mr.
After some awkward words of part to part: - Ah, my dear boy! - I said - do not wonder about what is happening here, but if you have need a confidant and a counselor, I would ask the preference.
I could not actually vent in a more friendly heart, or safer.
I did the worthy elderly a detailed account of all the circumstances that have been identified since my arrival at castle, my special relationship with Miss Margaret.
So I've read some pieces of this newspaper, to clarify the status of these relationships and also the state of my soul.
The two hearts, which in my opinion are worthy of each other, could not be reconciled without understanding: but that's fanciful event, whose theater has been the tower romantic d'Elven, I confess that I am baffled entirely.
I have more confidence in you, myself, because I know that misfortune always exposed to the suspect, has been irritated to excess susceptibilities my honor.
Laubepin stood up, her lashes fell over his eyes, and around the room great strides for a few minutes, then stopping in front of me and taking my hand with Strength: - Young - he said - is true, I love him as a child, but even when he should tear his heart and mine to yours, I will never compromise my principles.
Best is to go beyond the honor stay behind him, on oath, all of which are not required under the tip of a knife or at the mouth of a gun, we must not make them or meet them: that's my opinion. - And mine.
Leaving tomorrow with you. - No, Max, stay here a while yet.
I do not believe in miracles, but I believe in God rarely allowed to succumb to our strengths ...
I know I ask a great deal of value, but formally claim his friendship.
If one month do not hear from me, then leave. 12 October.
Two days ago I can get out of my retirement and move to the castle.
I had not seen Mademoiselle Margarita from the moment of our separation d'Elven tower.
When I entered, was alone in the room, with the recognition made an involuntary movement to rise, but remained motionless and her face was a purple colored suddenly hot.
This was contagious, that I felt that I blushed to the front. - How are you, sir - I said to reach out, uttering these simple words with a voice so sweet, so humble, alas so tender, she had wanted to throw in knees before her.
However, it was necessary to answer the political tone of a cold.
He looked painfully, then lowered her large eyes with an air of resignation and continued his work.
Almost at the same moment, her mother summoned next to his grandfather, whose condition worsened significantly.
For many days he had lost his voice and movement, the paralysis had invaded almost over.
The last glimpses of his intellectual life had been extinguished, only sensitivity persisted with suffering.
There could be no doubt that the end of the old man approached, but life had taken hold very strongly that strong heart, to discard him, without a stubborn fight.
The doctor had said that the agony would be long.
From the appearance of danger, Laroque Madame and her daughter had lavished their efforts and their vigils with passionate dedication and enthusiasm of sacrifice, which are under special and the glory of their sex.
The doctor also very tired, he soon announced that he would lie on a bed that was in the next room. - I worship here at all - I said, - everything is done, you see, and not the poor suffer man ...
Is a state of lethargy that has nothing unpleasant, and which will arouse death ...
of one can therefore rest easy.
If you notice any changes, call me, but I think this will not happen until tomorrow.
In the meantime I'm dying of sleep .-- He gave a yawn sound and left.
His language and his coolness under the dying shocked me.
It is, however, an excellent man, but taxed to death the respect that is due, it is necessary not only see the raw material that it dissolves, but also believe in the immortal principle that detaches.
Left alone in the funeral chamber, I sat at the foot of the bed whose curtains had been lifted, and tried to read to the light of a lamp that was near me, on a small table.
The book fell from my hands, my mind could not separate the unique combination of events, that after so many years, gave to this old man's grandson blame the victim as a witness and protective of his ultimate dream.
Then in the midst of profound calm, time and place, to my regret evoked the tumultuous and bloody scenes of violence that had filled this existence to an end.
Distant impression of them was looking in the face of this dying secular, their pale outline of which is drawing attention to the shade, such as a plaster mask, and only saw in them the seriousness and the rest premature grave.
For intervals at the head approached me for sure if the breath of life that was far the chest destroyed.
Finally, around midnight, I felt an irresistible drowsiness, and fell asleep with his head resting on his hand.
Suddenly I was awakened by tremors do not know what grim; I looked up and felt a shudder pass through the marrow of my bones.
The old man was half raised in bed, and had fixed a watchful eye on me, astonished, that shone the expression of life and intelligence that I had hitherto been unknown.
When my eyes met his, the spectrum shuddered, opened his arms crossed, and I he said with a pleading voice whose timbre strange suspended the movement of my heart. - Marquis, forgive me!
I wanted to get up, I wanted to talk, but in vain.
Finally I found the strength to come to him to how I approached, he retreated painfully to escape back to an awesome touch.
I raised a hand, and lowering it gently to your eyes wide open and desperate terror. - Die in peace! - I said - I forgive!
He had not even finished speaking when his withered face lit up with lightning of joy and youth.
While two tears flowed from their sunken sockets.
Extended their hands to me, suddenly, the hand was slammed and stretched in space with a threatening gesture, I saw squirming and rolling their eyes from their sockets dilated as if a bullet had struck his heart. - Oh!
Fell back on the pillow like an inert mass.
Very soon he was surrounded by pious tears and prayers.
I retired with my soul deeply moved by this extraordinary scene, which was forever remain secret, including the dead man and me.
Rennes, October 16.
Last night, around nine, I was I leaning on my window open when I was surprised by a faint light was coming to my room through the dark park roads and in a direction not usually bring the people of the castle.
A moment later he called at my door, and Mademoiselle de Porhoet came panting. - Primo - I said - I have to talk to you. - Is there any trouble? - I asked, looking at her face. - No, not just that.
My dear son, have you spent two or three nights at the castle this week have not seen anything new in it singular or in the attitude of the ladies? ... - Nothing. - Have not you noticed at least in his face a kind of serenity is not used? ... - Yes, maybe ...
Putting aside the recent melancholy of grief seemed to me more calm, and further said that in another time. - Without doubt, would have drawn attention to other particulars if you would like me lived fifteen years in daily intimacy.
So I have often surprised including signs of a secret intelligence, of a mysterious complicity.
Madame de Laroque has cast aside his brazier his box, and all innocent hobbies Creole rises to one hour and installed fabulous from dawn to Margaret in front of the desk.
They both entered a taste passionate about embroidery, and reported the money that a woman can win a day with this kind of work.
She recently revealed to avail me and without having to enter the secret from you before what suits you, I believed to be transmitted without delay.
Unable to make you rich, they become poor.
I have found it impossible cousin, leaving you to ignore this determination, equally worthy of these two generous souls and chimeric these two heads.
Excuse me add that his duty is to thwart at all costs this project.
It seems futile to talk of repentance that prepares our infallibly friends, and the terrible responsibility that threat, you understand as well as me.
If I could, my friend, accept at the moment the hand of Margarita, the matter would end in the most happy, but is linked to this subject by a compromise which, however blind however unwise it was, is no less binding for that honor.
When you party, I will make it easier to return to these two girls to the right. - Well, I am ready; be leaving tonight. - Very Good - continued: - when I give this advice my friend, myself to obey a law While rigorous honor.
You sweetens the last moments of my long solitude has turned me illusion of the sweetest charms of life lost me years ago.
Away you make my last sacrifice ...
He got up and looked at me a moment without speaking. - At my age not to embrace the young - he continued, smiling sadly, - bless them.
Goodbye, dear son, and thank you ...
I kissed her trembling hands, and she left me precipitously.
The resignation begged to reach a resolution which had not calculated, and for my part, he was determined to not make me an accomplice.
I gave my word and she knew she could be counted, that would never accept my happiness at the expense of ruin.
At the end, to turn away the best of his foolish project, spoke vaguely a near future in pretending glimpse of hope of fortune.
At midnight, when everyone was asleep, say goodbye, a cruel farewell to my retirement, to that old tower that had suffered so much, where both had loved!
and I slipped into the castle a side door, the key was entrusted to me.
Crossed stealthily, like a criminal, empty galleries and sound, guiding the best I could in the darkness, I finally the room, where he had first seen.
She and her mother had left, was just an hour recently manifested their presence even for a sweet, warm scent that I got drunk suddenly.
I knelt before her place, and there with the forehead on the marble, weeping and sobbing like a child.
I took the last hours of the night to secretly drive me to the small town neighbor, where I took the coach of Rennes.
The next day morning, when he was going to ride on the train, entered the courtyard of hotel a post carriage, and saw him down the old Alain.
When I saw his face lit. - Ah, sir, how fortunate that no party!
I said in two lines of Porhoet was Miss seriously ill and called me.
But I did not take the time to change horses and threw me in the chair, after having decided to Alain, not without difficulty, to sit down compared to me.
I do not know what is true in this, but it is a pity - I said - that to this respectable lady has her head stuck in the ideas of Cathedral and does not want to abandon ...
because, you note, which is more wedded than ever.
At first, when the news fell on the pavement round and was believed dead; but an hour later he began to speak, without end or respite, its cathedral, the choir, the nave, the council and the canons, North Wing and South Wing, so that to calm has been necessary to bring an architect, builders, and put on the bed of the ill-fated planes building.
Finally, after three hours of conversation on the subject is drowsy for a while; waking, asked to see Mr. ...
This strange event caused me the liveliest surprise.
However, with the help of my memories and confusing details that Alain gave me, I came to give me an explanation of them, were confirmed positive news very soon.
As I said, business succession of the Spanish branch of the Porhoet had gone through two phases.
There had been first among Mademoiselle de Porhoet and a big house of Castile, a long process that my old friend had ended up losing in the final analysis, then a new process, in which de Porhoet was not, had been raised, regarding the same succession, the heirs Spanish and the crown, which meant that goods returned to it by right of establishment of the estate. "Since at the Escorial on April 10, 1716.
I THE KING. " Next to this piece, it was just a translated copy, had found the original text the arms of Spain.
I had not hidden the importance of this document, but had feared exagerármela.
Doubted the validity of title, on which they had spent so many events and many events were supported by the Spanish government, and even doubted that would the power to make room, even if they wanted to have them.
Not receiving any answer, I soon to forget in the midst of personal care that overwhelmed me then.
The Spanish government acting in a manner contrary to my unjust suspicion, had not hesitated to play word of King Philip, and the moment that a supreme decree just started tackling succession to the crown of the Porhoet immense, by another decree the nobly restored to its rightful heir.
It was nine o'clock at night when the carriage went down in the wet threshold of the cottage I had just come in, albeit belatedly, this fortune almost real.
The servant came to open up; wept bitterly.
The old man squeezed my hand tightly and introduced me, without uttering a word, the fourth of Mademoiselle de Porhoet.
The doctor and the priest of the town remained silent in the hollow of a window.
Madame de Laroque was kneeling on a chair near the bed, her daughter standing at the bedside, holding the pillow on which rested the pale head of my poor old friend.
When I saw the patient, a weak smile lit her face, profoundly altered, and tore one of his arms painfully.
I took her hand, fell to my knees I could not hold back my tears. - My son, my dear son to !...-- Laubepin Then stared.
The old notary then took the bed a sheet of paper, and continuing, apparently interrupted reading, read: "For these reasons, instituted by the holographic will, by universal legatee of all my estate, both in Spain and France, without reservation or qualification, to a maximum of Santiago Mary Odiot, Marquis d'Hauterive Champcey, noble-hearted as to race
