The visit of the Royal Sites is a matter of interest to all foreigners.
I promised later visited the Escorial and La Granja, but did not believe that Brown and other properties the ruling family, adjacent to Madrid, deserving particular study.
I thought Aranjuez require preference, more especially as, having been there in a railroad train, felt the attractiveness of the curious this enchanting oasis.
On the other hand, had announced a major bull run in the plaza of that small town, and I wanted keenly know this show unique and characteristic, which differs from both bulls games in Spanish-Colombia.
Truth is that neither the Tato, or Cuchares or another of the princes of the Aranjuez bullfighting should work, but was announced as king of the party such a Pepete, sword of the second order not without reputation.
Thousands of people from all conditions were grouped into the railroad station to go to the bullfight.
Everything contributed to seduce the locals: Bulls, the thousand beauties Real site, which produces almost fantastic pleasure flight in rail, and even new to convert to Aranjuez in Madrid Versailles.
The train passed and the seat cushions reached.
To achieve first-class wagons had to arrange a quotation from sixteen passengers, lest it sour spending time in the second and third cars.
I confess that I felt, because he wanted to take my darkness in Spain to slip between the common people, accepting all setback, to know a little change of the nature of the classes lower calls.
But I went with a distinguished Spanish writer, which by dint of Spanish was very gallant, and as he had seen a beautiful blue-eyed Madrid head blonde, capable of seducing the most sane, it was necessary to drift trailer.
That fact made me once again confirm the inaccuracy of the famous physiological rule: similia similibus ...
which is also a principle of chemistry.
Perhaps there is truth in that, in some situations, but in general, but I have not seen the mysterious chemical contrasts affections.
My partner was a Catalan-blooded and edging Democrat, while Fairy wagon that we were going was a blonde British appearance, nothing less and daughter that of a writer to absolutist fist.
The conversation is initiated with exquisite warmth and among old friends.
I must say with pleasure that I have nothing but fond memories of the numerous friends of coffee, theater, wagon, diligence, etc., which harvested in Spain, friends of one hour, anonymous, they are lost forever a moment later, but leave good memories for the kindness obsequious in their manners and goodwill that give the traveler any reports requested.
In honor of my friend for a ride and to do justice to his eloquence, I remember a circumstances.
Shortly after the departure of the train, when the conversation was walking through the passes of gallantry concealed, the blonde lady like a queen who abdicates his crown on a whim, stated that he hated marriage and would never marry, and that, not by hatred of men but .... (Oddly enough the daughter of an absolutist!) For the love of freedom.
The same day in my beard preached the same sermon to others inveterate three or four times, with admirable gallantry spirited.
The opulent Aranjuez valley formed by the lifting of some hills in the great plain who has the Tagus hydrographic center, collects the waters of this river and the Jarama whose convergence is checked at a short distance from the city of Aranjuez, which is 49 miles Madrid.
Not without reason can call the valley the garden of Madrid, it is distinguished by the abundance and excellence of its fruits and vegetables.
In Spain the classic land of strawberries and asparagus is Aranjuez.
Its industry is very small, and very little agriculture importance if we are to judge by the few vineyards and olive groves a few tiny hills contour.
Best of Aranjuez is its forests, gardens, palaces and her offspring, all of which belongs to the "real estate".
The population is only a little over 5,000 inhabitants, a figure that usually double during Spring by the invasion of those seeking the delights of the countryside.
New town and court, Aranjuez is distinguished by the ability of their homes, and runs very wide streets to string and cut at right angles.
Is between the city and the Tagus which extends the most splendid gardens and parks of Real-site.
