Or you lack some caudalejo of philosophy, which has persuaded me to you would like more than any other this writing of a sage.
First it was written in the ancient Chaldean, which neither you nor I know, and was translated into Arabic for recreation of the sultan named Ulug-beg, in the times that Arabs and Persians were given to write the Thousand and One Nights, The Thousand and One Days, etc.
Ulug most liked to read to Zadig, but more amused with sultanas is the Thousand and one.
Ulug he said unto the wise, how could bear with patience some stories without head nor tail, that meant nothing.
Well, that is why are to our liking, answered the sultanas.
I hope you do not look like them, and you're a true Ulug, and not mistrust that when you were weary of talks as instructive as the Thousand and one, although much less recreation, can I have the honor that you take a few minutes of wandering in things you hear me those on right.
If time scandir, son of Philip, would have been Thalestris, or the queen of time Sabean Soleyman of these kings have been those who have made pilgrimages to see you.
I beg your heavenly virtues carry no bitterness delights be lasting your beauty and your chance for life.
King Moabdar reign, lived in Babylon a young man named Zadig, of good character, which education had improved.
Did bridle his passions, though handsome and rich, and spent affectation, and he insisted on always give him the reason, and respected human frailty.
Pasmábanse all seeing as he had plenty of wit, never taunted with chufletas of the perturbation bad yarn, the baseless rumors of the crazy decisions, minstrels of ridicule, which the Babylonians called conversation.
In the first book Zoroaster had seen that love is itself a ball full of wind, and coming out of it storms so that the sting.
Not that Zadig was praised to no appreciation for the women, and that dominated.
This jealousy, mere children of his vanity made him believe he was in love Semira, and wanted to steal it.
Zadig answered modestly: no dog is bitch.
It is a very small fine bitch, Zadig continued, that has borne little has, coxa of the left foot forward, and has very long ears.
How that you have seen?
There was a wise writer who had composed a work in thirteen folio volumes about properties of the taps, great Theurgists, which went to all haste to submit to the Archmage Drastanés, the most foolish, and consequence to the most fanatic of the Chaldeans to those remote times
