Your sister is great, you brother is a saint, but you should live life with them and half at their expense.
Inesita sighed, and continued love: - In the town, for you, you're a real girl, how he had to miss a rich landowner, a homeowner or farmer with the kidney well covered, which aspire to your hand?
But here I find it difficult.
Goodbye, and let me alone.
The housekeeper was forced to leave.
He kissed his girl, and advised to turn off soon light and fall asleep, they left the room, carefully closing the door.
Ines was not well in the desert, pulled out of hiding the letter and read as follows: "My dear lady and dear friend: Despite the respect that I have always treated you, you will not have noticed the more than brotherly love since you were a little girl teachers.
The class difference between you and me and my lack of fortune, gave me no never mind, while you were here, nor could I even dream that you expect him to do so I said, accepting my hand.
Since you lack the people God has favored me, bless my work and sleepless nights, and I already have incomes and means to live here with family, almost as well as the wealthy.
This change or improvement in my position and the consideration that your sister and her husband took an honest man and poor, and you should not be any more ambitious and demanding that she give me after the boldness that I have missed to the day, and I have to declare that I love and that I should be the happiest of men if you come to me. "I know the nobility and generosity of heart to you, and I know I will never marry you by simple calculation, but I'm not so thoughtlessly enthusiast who does not understand that by giving important step as the link for all and raise a family, not to be consulted, weighed and measured the difficulties in life, and the resources that exist to overcome them.
For the latter, I tell you frankly, do not believe that it's offended, I have today Pretty good.
From what I can tell you I own circumstances, his brother and friend My Don Braulio. "As for me, you know me and decide.
I know you do not deserve it, but the love makes me bold, and implore him to lend me the merits that I need. "I do not want you to decide at once, but after most careful consideration, so that not have to repent of lightness.
The life of Madrid must have special attractions for girls.
I want to see you in Madrid, and know and appreciate all these attractions, to renounce them, knowing what waiver, when I give a yes, if by that I given.
If you would join your fate to mine, would be respected and loved here, and the surround yo anything that might be pleasing, to the welfare and culture of these places I agree, but you would have to abandon all idea of ??returning, were not a step large cities.
My ambition and all my life plans are coded in care my flow and doing more in this town where I live also my children, if God's given me.
Why put a period to the answer I want, and I beg you not give me the rush.
My impatience is great, but I restrain my impatience when this is my lifelong happiness, and above all, of you, I is a thousand times more expensive. "I have a whim and caprice call him because it would be neat state here the grounds on which is founded: I have a fancy to you, in full freedom, without anyone to influence their advice for or against, decide my fate, rejected, or favoring. "So this statement of mine is a secret to everyone, including his wife's sister you, Dona Beatriz.
Only Don Braulio know the step I take, but he has promised Don Braulio not advocate for me, and just give you the reports you requested. "I will wait until within a month, at least.
Do not attribute you coldness of my soul this long wait that I impose.
Atribúyalo the idea so high that I have the solemnity and therefore commitment to induce you to enter. "I said to you to, but not you that dude, even despised, will always admiring your affectionate and loving, Paco Ramirez. " Inesita read this letter with very great satisfaction, showing it in the lipstick that animated and lit his face.
No one, however, that would have been in that moment, except for powers supernatural to read souls, if satisfaction had discovered was just vanity to be loved, or even love for the person who was determined to woo her.
Read the letter, Inesita rose from bed, opened the top drawer of the dresser and kept the letter in it locked up.
Then lay down again, turned off the light and placed comfortably to meditate perhaps on content of that document, and sleep at last.
VI The next morning, Ines and Don Braulio, while Dona Beatriz, less early bird that , was still in bed, had a long conversation about the letter undoubtedly Paco Ramírez.
Then they went to church together the two sisters, then all had lunch, and finally, Don Braulio, not without promise before that night would lead to the two girls of the Gardens Buen Retiro, went to the Ministry of Finance.
Although Sunday, Don Braulio prompted his departure, or gave an excuse for it, assuming it was extraordinary occupations.
Back in his office, where no one had come over him, Don Braulio, instead of studying records, long time was sitting with his elbows on his office and hands on the cheeks, studying himself.
This study should not give very satisfactory results.
Don Braulio sighed several times, knit his brows, showed some anger taking some punches, and eventually relent and shed two tears, slowly sailed her face.
Then, as by way of ease and comfort, Paco Ramírez wrote the following letter: "Dear Paco: Last night I fulfilled your request with all the requirements and precautions that you gave me.
Beatriz ignored and will ignore the step you have taken.
Agnes is very secretive.
As the effect of reading your letter may have had on his mind, I do not know what to say.
This morning I spoke with Agnes, but the heart of a maiden is impenetrable, unfathomable as an abyss.
Modesty, candor, innocence, all these garments, men believe long, are no longer a thick veil, but a high, thick wall, which serves to repair heart to not be noticed or read what it mind reading.
Hence the deception men often have more clear, but are not cheating when you no longer have Remedy: After marrying. "Inesita seems, and I think that is candid, good, frank, everything you can imagine, but does not leave you to discover not whether or not, but if your letter has not been flattered and flattered.
That's right: she has been very grateful for the affection and confidence that inspires you.
In terms I infer also told me something very important.
If Agnes had thought reflectively this other thing would be something to censor much thought, but I think she feels one instinctively, not realizing comprehensive, and sensible, however, fair.
In sum, Agnes does not calculate or thinks, but feels and perceives that your plan is bad and caused the error.
You will offer to be decided in a month or for the pleasures of this capital, for the triumphs self-esteem can be here and ambitious hopes which may be incurred in soul, or for yourself, your love and your hand.
This would be discrete if there were no circumstances it spoils and has discovered her at once. "It is this fact of your absence.
Missing you and present all such property, apparent or Real, who has to leave for you, the game is not the same.
Not you who struggle, but your memory, which, if one side is worth less than the individual, on the other hand may be worth much more if it beautifies poetry.
In short: Inesita not going to leave this for you, because you prefer, but for the recollection of you, who has not seen for three years.
The memory also have to be confusing, incomplete, diverse lot, and it will be completed and transform it with fantasy.
She will not be remembered as a woman remembers a man, as a bride remembers her boyfriend, but as a young girl remembers her older brother.
Has, then add the imaginary quality of loving and thinking about you other than to now thought. "All this and more, you will understand without my saying so, is stirred in the mind of Agnes.
I believe that understanding is one, and I imagine a tool for measure you like the thermometer.
All fired the shots that escape through white top.
I compare your doctor when he notices the progress of tuberculosis in a loved one, provided the damage is to do and not even know how to avoid or remedy. "I see too well clear contempt for me that is slowly entering the heart of Beatrice and devouring the affection that I have.
And you better not feel sorry for me
