If I had to save my reputation, aviada was with a friend like you.
And smile with an expression of superiority, considering well above what they could that the people of his friendship with Rafael. - In the market you tell me about all the vendors as if this was for me the most irresistible of flattery; ensure that we are a proud partner.
My gardener takes all occasions to tell me you're very handsome.
The poor lady did not see more than this in the world.
Rafael seized the moment.
I was sick, yes, sick of love.
I wanted to start thinking of devotion to her, and could not.
Needed see, hear, and only lived for her. "Read?
All repugnant to him.
Their home was a cave that went to great effort to eat and sleep.
She left as soon as you wake up and leave town, it looked like a prison.
Servant, animal, inanimate object something that was in constant contact with him, that he craved: not to be compelled to the arrival of the night away after a prolonged farewell ending child pretexts, to return to the irritating banality of his life, the solitude of her room, in which dark corners, as evil temptation, he thought he saw eyes fixed on green.
Leonora was not laughing.
Le proximity self-conscious of relatives of Leonora, intimidated him and mocking the surface air with which she received visits, the irony with which he aimed it a little disconcerting words of love.
Every day he went to the blue house trembling hope, troubled by the illusion. "Perhaps is today, "they said.
And his legs trembled, and saliva in his throat seemed to solidify, drowning.
If the Count was speaking Russian model of elegance, Rafael next day, to the astonishment of his home, took out his best clothes, and sweating under the sun, oppressed by the high collar, undertook that journey it was her Street of Bitterness, walk like a lady so that dust does not dampen the shine of their boots.
If the musician German crossed the memory of Leonora, he revisited his books, and affecting the outside neglect of those artists seen in the novels, arrived there with the purpose of discussing the immortal master of Wagner, whom he hardly knew, but she adored as a person family ...
Acknowledged that it was impossible that struggle to match with the thousand ghosts that filled the memory of Leonora, but do not do it for wake that heart to be loved for a moment, a day any more, and then die!
The avenue was deserted.
Rafael, overwhelmed by the effort of that confession, which took account of anguish and dreams of many months, he leaned against the trunk of an old orange.
Leonora was facing listening to him with bowed head, scratching the soil with the tip of his red umbrella.
Dying, yes, he had read this many times in novels could not suppress a smile.
I had thought a few nights in the confusion of delirium, end that love tragically.
The blood of his father, violent and domineering, boiled in it.
If she convinced that it would never be his, was not to kill anyone, and kill him later!
Drop the two on the ground soaked with blood, as on a bed of red damask, kiss him in the cold lips, without fear that no one bothered him, kiss her and kiss her until the last breath of life was lost in the pale face of it.
She said with conviction, vibrating all the muscles of his face manly, burning like coals Moor her eyes streaked for the passion of blood veins.
And Leonora was looking at him now passion, as if he saw a new man.
Trembled with emotion on hearing the new barbarians dreams, death threats.
That is not gloomily as the poet killed Italian looking lost love died killing, destroyed the idol, if not attended to his pleas.
And sweetly moved by the tragic expression of Rafael, was carried away by it, that had taken an arm and drew her away from the avenue between the tops of the orange low.
Leonora seemed intoxicated by the virile perfume of those threats of wild passion.
Rafael, the head down and quietly watch the artist, thought he had offended his words and repented of them.
Should forgive him, he was crazy.
He was not indifferent to her, not inspired dislike or hate, otherwise they would not be friends and would allow continued visits.
But do not resist, and eventually love him, he achieved conquer by force of love and of worship.
It would be his slave, the carpet that would his feet, the dog always tended to her, his eyes burning of eternal fidelity, would end up loving him, if not for love, gratitude and pity.
And as he spoke, brought his face close to Leonora, seeking his image at the bottom of the eyes green, pressed his arm with the fever of passion. - Careful, Rafael ...
And as if awakened in the middle of danger after a sweet dream, she shuddered, detachment with a nervous impulse.
Then he began to speak calmly, and record of drunkenness that had troubled the passionate words of Raphael.
No, what he wanted was impossible.
The die was cast, I did not love ...
Friendship I had taken something away.
It was already a boat old who could not bear the weight of a new passion.
If I had known years before, maybe.
The two need to get away.
I flee before the end of the spring, I will not know where, again the world to sing, where there are men like you, and the time and absence will be responsible of cure.
Leonora winced when he saw the blaze of wild passion that went through the eyes of Rafael.
He felt her lips with the hot breath of those who sought his mouth, muttering to roar off: - No, you will not go, I do not go away.
And he was linked, moved from head to foot by jittery arms that passion gave new strength.
Her feet left the ground, he was raised, a brutal drive the he fell on his side at the foot of an orange, while their clothes were moving about convulsive hands, trembling, that wounded the beast flesh with caresses.
It was a brutal fight, which lasted a few moments ignoble.
Its robust body vibrated with a supreme effort, she sat with her weight smothering Raphael, Leonora and finally sat up, putting your foot brutally, without mercy, on his chest Young, squeezing as if trying to crack the bones of his chest.
His appearance was terrible.
It seemed crazy, with dirty blond hair and ground broken.
Its green eyes glowed as sharp metal knives, and his mouth, discolored emotion, contracting, releasing, by force of habit, the instinct of effort his battle cry, a hojotoho!
torn, savage, which shook the calm of the garden, shaking to poultry, they ran scared from the trails.
Umbrella brandished in anger as if it were the lance of Wotan's daughters, and several times pointed it at Rafael's eyes as if to remove them.
The girl seemed crushed by his effort, ashamed of his brutality, lifeless on the ground, without protest, as if he wished never to rise again, to die under that foot suffocated him angry.
Leonora calmed down, and slowly came back a few steps, while Rafael was incorporated, picking up his hat.
It was a painful scene.
The two felt cold, did not see the light, as if the sun had gone out and the garden blowing an icy wind.
Rafael looked embarrassed when soil was afraid of her, afraid to be seen in the clothes disheveled, dirty ground, beaten and beaten as a thief who surprised a strong master.
Leonora's voice, speaking with contemptuous familiarity that is used with the miserable. - Go!
He looked up and saw the angry and arrogant Leonora, fixed on him. - Me not take me - he said coldly, - give me if I want.
And in a gesture of contempt and rage with which dismissed Rafael, seemed to mark the memory Boldini odious, disgusting old man, alone in the world that had taken by force.
Rafael wanted to apologize, ask forgiveness, but that memory of adolescence evoked brutal scene, made her relentless. - Go, go, or get slapped! ...
And to give more power to these words as Rafael, humiliated, dirty, out of the garden, Leonora closed behind him the wooden fence so brutal momentum, which nearly blew up the bars.
IV Doña Bernarda Rafael showed himself pleased with her.
No more glaring, gestures severe, the mute scenes between mother and son, who witnessed with awe the intimate of the house.
He did not go to the blue house, I knew with great certainty, thanks to free intelligence that the affected people serving the family.
Just left the house, a casino by the time the afternoon, and the rest of the day in the dining room with her and friends, or locked in his room, no doubt turn his books, which the austere lady looked with superstitious awe of their ignorance.
That would happen: it was a quirk of age, had to give youth its own.
Already tired of the artist to be so beautiful, and then it would be easy to get back on track.
Doña Bernarda admired once again the talent of the director, seeing fulfilled their predictions, made with a cynicism that the devout lady blushed.
She also believed it all over.
His son was less blind than the father.
Was tired the lost love of a woman like that, not wanting to quarrel with his mother for so little, nor enemies discredit him and returned to duty with great joy of the good lady around him to seek care. - How about that? - Her friends asked her mysteriously. - Nothing - responded with a proud smile .-- It has been three weeks and no hints of wanting back there.
My Rafael is good.
An angel, an angel.
It spends hours talking to me and the daughter of Matthias.
Something, yes, or at least the appearance of any.
Rafael, tired of wandering around the house tired of books to which he spent hours turning leaves, unaware of what they said, took refuge in the room where his mother sewed, watching a complicated embroidery the daughter of Don Matias.
Rafael liked the simplicity of this gentle girl.
Its simplicity produced in him a impression of freshness and relaxation.
Cuevecitas saw it as a narrow and hidden in which slumbered calm after a storm.
The satisfied smile of his mother encouraged him to stay there.
I had never been so kind and communicative.
The enjoyment of having him back safe and modified its austere submissive to the roughness.
Remedios, head bent over her embroidery, heavily reddened whenever Rafael praised their work or said it was the prettiest girl in Alcira.
The thread helped needles, with outstretched hands acted as the skein winder that curled the girl and more than once pinched her under the frame, with the confidence to have met child, which did not prevent her screams shocked. - Rafael, do not be mad - said the mother kindly threatening their hands .-- Let dry Remedies work, if you behave so badly will not let you enter the room.
The thing is in full swing.
That boy is this the image of his father.
Believe me, they should not lose sight.
If I were not here, that little devil would be able to discredit the crazy house.
He knew from his spies that morning market were found both in the streets of Alcira.
Rafael turned her gaze as if looking for a place through which to escape, she went pale and pretending not to see him later.
What did that mean? ...
In the joy of victory, began to think about the wedding of his son with Remedios, and lifting Reservation tip of a great lady, Don Matías was like family, praising affection live increasingly linked to the boys. - Well if you want - said the rich man's crude - for me that the wedding is soon.
Remedies makes a lot of paper in my hand: a young woman as there is little for housekeeping, but This is no obstacle to the wedding.
Very satisfied, Dona Bernarda, that we are relatives.
I just feel that Don Ramón can not see these things.
And it was true that the only thing that marred the joy of rustic millionaire, was that it lived the high and mighty Lord for the pleasure of treating him like an equal, thus crowning success its amazing fortune.
Doña Bernarda also saw in this union the height of his dreams: money joined power, the millions of a business whose success seemed wonderful shots of the game, coming to quicken with sap from the tree of gold Brülls, something cracked and old for long years of struggle.
Dona Bernarda had some afternoons the boys to their gardens or rich estates of the father of Remedios.
Had to do with what kindness air watching the young couples, screaming alarmed if in his travels a few minutes remained hidden behind the orange. - This Raphael - told his counselor that he had confidence that relate more once the sadness of intimacy with her husband's .-- What a rascal!
Rafael enough to contemplate how picked flowers and placed them laughing in the head or chest of Remedios, who resisted weakly, with a blushing schoolgirl moved by such tributes. - Quiet, Rafaelito - whispered with a voice like a bleat supplicant .-- Do not touch me; do not be bold.
And his emotion betrayed in such a way that seemed to be asking the girls to return to put in your body that upset those hands from the feet to the root of the hair.
Retreated by education, he was fleeing because this is the duty of a Christian girl and well educated, escaped as a goat with graceful leaps between the rows of orange trees, and Mr deputy left behind at a gallop with quivering nostrils and eyes burning. - That you take, Remedios! - Mom cried, laughing .-- Run, which takes you!
Don Andrés contorted his face wrinkled with a smile of old faun.
Cassettes you soon, take heed if not, we can give a lot to laugh Alcira.
And they were all deceived.
Neither mother nor his friend saw the expression of dismay and sadness Rafael when left alone, locked in a room whose dark corners still saw and mysterious green eyes that he had spoken to Leonora.
It lasted shame and self-abasement as of this morning.
Was seen in all its tragic absurdity, matted on the ground, pressed by the foot of the virile Amazon, stained earth, humble and confused as an offender fails to apologize.
And then the terrible word like a whip: "Go!", As a lackey who dares venture his lady, and the gate closed behind him noisily dropping like a stone tomb between him and the artist.
The morning I found it by chance near the market, thought he would die of shame legs trembled, he saw that the street suddenly darkened as if nightfall.
I needed to forget their embarrassing blunder that memory tenacious as remorse, and is near the protected stunned his mother.
She was a woman, and her hands, which seemed unbound since that painful morning, went to her, her tongue was, after vehement confession love for the garden gate, now spoke lightly, expressing an adoration that seemed without a trace slide down his face expressionless Remedios, going far, far away, where remained hidden and injured another.
Remedios was stunned about to fall into a sad stupid just barely visible.
Was a drunkenness foam evaporated in the desert.
Remedios seemed one of those fruits unseasoned, healthy, with the flick of virginity, free of pitting and staining, but without the flavor and perfume delight that intoxicates.
In his strange situation, living for the day of frolicking with a girl child aroused in him no more than the joy of fraternal camaraderie and during the night of sad memories, all he pleased was the confidence of his mother, the quiet of the house, power come and go without feeling eyes fixed on him angry and to hear words of indignation choked breath.
Don Andrés and friends of the casino was asked when would the wedding, her mother spoke presence of the children of the great transformations that have to do at home
