Ten years of neglect had hardened the ground, drawing from its neglected innards all parasitic plants, all the thorns which God has created for the punishment of the farmer.
A dwarf jungle, tangled and misshapen spread over those fields, with a wave of foreign shades of green, tinged here and there by mysterious and rare flowers, the kind that only arise in the ruins and cemeteries.
Under the foliage of the jungle tiny and encouraged by the safety of his lair, grew and multiplied all sorts of nasty, spilling into neighboring fields: Rough-backed green lizards, giant beetles with metallic shimmer shell, spiders short-legged and hairy, even snakes that glide immediate ditches.
There living in the heart of the beautiful and neat plain, forming separate world, devouring one to others, and even cause harm to the neighbors, they were respected with a certain reverence, for the seven plagues of Egypt seemed little to those of the garden to throw on those lands are cursed.
As Barret lands would never be for men, were nesting in them bicharraco disgusting, and the more the merrier.
In the middle of these desolate fields, which stood out on the beautiful plain as a stain of dirt in a regal cloak of green velvet, rose the cabin, or rather this, falling, with straw cap of gutted, teaching through the openings pierced the wind rain and its rotten wooden ribbing.
The walls, scratched by water, showed their raw clay bricks, no more than a very slight white spots that exposed the former whitewashed.
The door was broken underneath, gnawed by rats, with cracks that cut from one extreme to another.
Two or three windows, completely open and martyred by gales, hung from one hinge, and were to fall at any moment, just blow a rude gust of wind.
It seemed that the left were CASUCO to shut out ghosts in the night, who were inside screaming to people from murdered, that the whole bush was hiding under a shroud of it hundreds of corpses.
Horrific images was what inspired the contemplation of these abandoned fields, and highlighted even more dismal misery when contrasted with the lands near, red, well maintained, correct full of rows of vegetables and seedlings, to which was the autumn leaves transparency caramel.
Even the birds fled from the fields of death, perhaps for fear of the animaluchos that rebullían under brush or by sniffing the breath of misfortune.
On the broken thatch, if anything could see was the fluttering of black wings and treacherous funeral feathers of crows and kites, which were shaken mute the laden trees of joyful and playful fluttering PIID, remaining silent the garden, as if there were sparrows half-mile radius.
Pepeta going to move forward, toward his white farmhouse, which peeked through the trees some fields beyond, but had to lie still on the high side of the road, that he should a cart loaded advancing stumbling and seemed to come from the city.
Her feminine curiosity was excited to notice him.
He was a poor farm cart drawn by a bony old nag, which helped in hard bumps a tall man who was walking next to him encouraging him with shouts and pops whiplash.
Labrador dressed, but how to wear the scarf round his head, his pants corduroy and other details of his suit, which was not betrayed in the garden, where personal adornment has gradually been contaminated by the taste of the city.
Was a farmer in some remote village: kidney may come from the province.
On the car amontonábanse, forming pyramid to higher than the poles, all kinds domestic objects.
Was the emigration of an entire family.
Consumptive mattresses, straw mattresses scandalous stuffed corn husk, esparto chairs, pans, kettles, plates, baskets, bed green benches, all piled on the car, dirty, worn out, miserable, smelling famine, to escape desperate, as if the march unfortunately after nipping family heels.
At the top of this mess three children could be seen hugging, which provided the fields with wide eyes, as explorers visiting a country for the first time.
On foot and behind the cart as watching for anything out of it fell, a woman and a marching girl, tall, slim, slim, it seemed daughter.
On the other side of the horse, helping when the vehicle is stopped in a bad way, was a boy of eleven years.
Its exterior betrayed serious child, accustomed to struggle with poverty, is a man at the age others play.
Pepeta, supported on the back of his cow, they looked forward, ever possessed the most curiosity. "Where would these poor people?
The way that, tributary to Alboraya not going anywhere.
Extinguished in the distance, and exhausted by the myriad branching paths and trails that gave entrance to the barracks.
But his curiosity had an unexpected ending.
The car left the road, crossing the dilapidated bridge of logs and earth which gave access to the cursed land, and is got by Barret fields, flattening their tires brush respected.
The family remained behind, saying with gestures and words confusing the impression that caused him misery, but straight at the wrecked cabin, and who takes possession of what is yours.
Pepeta not want to see more.
Now I really ran to his hut.
Anxious to arrive before left to the cow and calf, and the two beasts continued their march calmly, as who does not care about things outside the barn and has insurance.
Pimento was lying on one side of his hut, smoking lazily, staring at three sticks smeared with lime, put in the sun, around which fluttered some birds.
Occupation was a master.
Upon seeing his wife come to the astonished eyes and poor chest heaving, Pimento changed positions to hear better, recommending that does not approach the wands.
Pepeta, with emotion and fatigue, could barely say two words together. "The land of Barret ....
Iban to work, to live in the barracks.
She I had seen. " Pimento, bird hunter with league foe of labor and terror of the contoured, could not impassive gravity retain great man at such unexpected news. - Recontracordóns! ...
Got a jump straight weighed and human muscles, and began to run without waiting for further explanation.
His wife saw how he ran cross country to a bluff to the lands immediately cursed.
There he knelt, lay on his stomach to peer through the reeds like a Bedouin lurking, and after a few minutes he returned to run, lost in this labyrinth of paths, each of which led to a hut, to a field where men hunched by shone his hoe like a flash of steel.
The garden was still smiling and murmuring, imbued with light and whispers, dormant under the waterfall golden morning sun.
But voices sounded in the distance and appeals: the news was transmitted to belt out a field to another field, and a shudder of alarm, surprise, indignation, ran through the whole plain, as if they had spent centuries and circulate a notice that the beach had appeared an Algerian galley looking white meat shipment.
II When harvest time Barret watched the pictures of different crops that their lands were divided, could not contain a sense of pride, and looking at the high wheat, cabbage-heart with his curly blonde, green melon poking back to flower ground peppers and tomatoes, or half hidden by foliage, praised the goodness of their fields and the efforts of all his predecessors to work better than the rest of the garden.
All the blood of their grandparents was there.
Five or six generations had passed Barrets their lives tilling the same soil, turning upside down, medicine her womb with burning manure, taking care that no decrease in their vital juice, brushing and combing with the hoe and gate all those lumps, of which there was not one that was not watered with the sweat and blood of the family.
Many wanted the farmer to his wife, and even forgave him the folly of having given four daughters and no sons to help him in his task, not least he loved the four girls, one angels of God, who spent the day singing and sewing at the door of the hut, and some Sometimes they got into the fields to rest a little to his poor father, but the supreme passion Uncle Barrett, the love of his love, were those lands on which had passed monotonous and quiet of your family history.
Many years ago, many - in time the old Tomba, a nearly blind old man who kept the poor herd of a butcher Alboraya, he traveled, heading del Fraile, shooting blunderbuss against the French - these lands were among the religious of San Miguel Kings, good gentlemen, fat, glossy, earthy, showing no big hurry in the collection of rent, it being satisfied that afternoon, passing through the cabin, I received the grandmother, who was then a real girl, presenting us with deep gourds of chocolate and offerings of fruit.
Before, long before, had been the owner of all that a great lord, who deposited their sins by dying and farms within community, and now, alas!
belonging to Don Salvador, an old man in Valencia, which was the torment Uncle Barret, for even in dreams appeared to him.
The poor farmer hid his troubles to his own family.
He was a brave man, customs pure.
On Sundays, if I was a little tavern at the Copa, where he met all the people of contour, was to look to trick players, to laugh like a blessed listening to the nonsense Pimento and other brutalities that were acting cocky guys went from the garden, but never approached the counter to pay for a glass.
He always carried a pocket of his tight band on the stomach, and if he drank, was when one of the greedy invited to all present.
Enemy to communicate their troubles, he was always seen smiling, good-natured, calm, taking pulled down over his ears blue cap that justified his nickname.
I worked at night to night, when the whole garden was asleep, as he was, to the uncertain clarity dawn, scratching their land, increasingly convinced that he could with them.
Seeking help took servants who robbed him working little and finally said goodbye to surprise sleeping in the barn in the sunshine.
Influenced by the respect to his ancestors, wanted burst of fatigue on their lumps before to agree that some of them were transferred on lease to foreign hands.
And not being able to with all the work, left unproductive and fallow half its fertile land, claiming with the culture of the other supporting the family and pay the master.
This effort was a silent struggle, desperate, stubborn, against the needs of life and against their own weakness.
Had but one wish: that the girls ignore their concerns, that nobody would account at the home of the hardships and sorrows of the father not to disturb the holy joy that house, busy at all hours by the laughter and songs of the four sisters, aged only one year differed.
And while they, who were beginning to attract attention of the young men of the garden, attended with new silk scarves, colorful, and ironed and noisy skirts to the feasts of the little towns, or waking at dawn to go barefoot and shirt to look through the cracks in the wicket who were singing them albaes [2] or presented with strumming the guitar, the poor guy Barret, increasingly engaged in leveling its budget, drew, ounce after ounce whole bunch of gold amassed farthing farthing on it his father had left him, shutting and Don Salvador, old miser who never had enough, Not content with squeezing, talking about how bad were the times, the scandalous increase contributions and the need to raise the price of the lease. [2] dawns.
Enjoyed throughout the garden a nasty reputation because rare was the game where it had no land.
Every afternoon, wrapped in an old layer, which had until spring, looking squalid beggar, and accompanied by curses and hostile gestures that left his back, was visiting the paths to the settlers.
Was the tenacity of the miser who wants to be in contact at all hours with their properties, stickiness the usurer who always has to settle outstanding accounts.
The dogs barked at him from afar, as death approaches, the children looked at him sulky, the men were hiding to avoid painful excuses and the women came to the door of the cabin with their eyes on the floor and lie on the point to pray to Don Salvador to be patient, answering with tears and threats to his snorts.
Pimento, who as the bully was interested in the misfortunes of his neighbors and was the knight errant of the garden, promised to mumble something like hitting a beating and cool off in a ditch, but the very victims of greedy deterred him talking the importance of Don Salvador, a man who spent his mornings in the courts and had friends of many bells.
With people like the poor always lose.
In all of its settlers, the best was Barret: although at the expense of great efforts, all he owed.
And the old man, who cited as a model to other tenants, when in front of him extreme cruelty, was more demanding, excited by the gentleness of the farmer, glad to find a man who could satisfy his instincts without fear of oppression and prey.
Increased, finally, the rental price of land.
Barrett testified, and even cried recalling the merits of his family who had lost his skin in those areas to of them the best in the garden.
And Barret paid the increase.
The blood would give him rather than abandon these land which gradually absorbed his life.
Had no money to bail out and only had what they produced in the fields.
And completely only, hiding the family's situation, having to smile when he was between his wife and their daughters, who recommended he not tried so hard, gave poor Barret to the most absurd folly of work.
It seemed that their vegetables were growing less rapidly than those of neighbors he just wanted to cultivate all the land, worked at night to grope, the lower cloud of hail made him beside himself, trembling with fear, and him, so kind, so honest, even advantage of the carelessness of the farmers adjacent to steal some of irrigation.
If your family was blind, in the slums surrounding the situation well guessed Barrett pitying his meekness.
It was a good fellow, did not know "stand up" to the nasty miser and he was going to devour it slowly sucking in full.
And so it was.
The poor farmer, burdened by a life of fever and dementia laborious stayed bones, bent like an octogenarian, his eyes sunken.
One characteristic hat justifying his nickname and did not stop his ears, taking advantage of the growing thin, down to the shoulders as a memorial apagaluz of its existence.
The worst thing for him was that this unsustainable overtiredness only allowed to pay half the insatiable ogre.
The consequences of their folly by the work did not wait.
The Barret hack of an animal suffering that followed in its desperate efforts tired of working day and night, to go pulling the cart to load Valencia Market vegetables, and then no time to breathe or headbands, be coupled to plow, took the game to die rather than allow the slightest attempt at rebellion against poor master.
In desperation looked at their fields, who could no longer grow, the rows of fresh vegetables, people city ??consumed with indifference, not knowing the anguish that their production does to suffer a poor father ongoing battle with the land and misery.
But Providence, which never abandons the poor, spoke by the mouth of Don Salvador.
For something say that God often brings good from evil.
Then there was it to help, showing how unfair it was those who hated him and talked ill of him.
And lends to Barrett, with the small detail of requiring a signature - business is business - at the foot of a role in which he spoke of interest, the accumulation of revenues, debt liability, the latter referring to the furniture, tools, everything he owned the peasant in his hut, including barnyard animals.
Barret, encouraged by the possession of a new young and fiery steed, became more actively their work, to kill on those terroirs, which seemed to grow as diminishing their strength, wrapping a red cloth.
Most of what they harvested in their fields, the family ate it, and handfuls of copper he drew from the sale of the remainder in the Valencia Marketplace desparramábanse, without forming never needed to quell the pile Don Salvador.
These anxieties of old Barret to pay their debt but they would come eventually wake in him a certain instinct of revolt, raising their rude vague and confused thinking ideas of justice.
All his grandparents had left life among those lumps, they were watered with the sweat gives the family if not for them, by Barrett, would be so unpopulated land and the sea ....
But these were momentary rebellion, returned to him the resigned submission of the farmer, the traditional and superstitious respect for the property.
And the poor man, he considered the failure to pay as most of the dishonor, returned to his tasks becoming weaker, more exhausted, feeling inside the slow collapse of its energy, convinced that he could not prolong this fight, but outraged at the possibility leaving only an inch of land of their ancestors.
Christmas semester was unable to deliver to Don Salvador more than a small part.
San arrived John, and a penny.
The woman was sick, to pay expenses until he had sold the "Golden marriage" the venerable earrings and necklace of pearls, which were the treasure of family, and whose future possession caused arguments between the four girls.
The old miser was adamant.
No, Barret, it could not continue.
As he was good (For most people I did not believe), could not consent to continue killing the farmer in this endeavor to cultivate a larger land forces.
Not consent, it was matter of good heart.
And as I had made proposals for new lease warned Barrett to leave the camps soon.
And so it should be reminded that the realization of the loan to purchase the horse, with revenues amount amounted to ....
The poor farmer and was set in the thousands of real debt to coming up with happy returns: troubled and confused as he left the order to abandon their land.
All his pride, his Moorish gravity, disappeared suddenly, and knelt before the old man asking him not to abandon, for he saw it to his father.
But good father had thrown the poor Barret.
Don Salvador was adamant.
He continued his cruelty muffled phrases feeling hypocritical.
The farmer got tired of asking grace.
Went several times to Valencia to the master's house to talk of their ancestors, had moral rights over those lands, to ask a little patience, nodding wild hope that he would pay, and finally ended by the greedy not open his door.
He continued working, albeit with misgivings, always looking forward to passing a stranger the roads immediately, as one looks from one moment to another being attacked by a gang bandit.
He cited to the court and did not appear.
He knew what it meant: entanglements of men to lose good people.
If they wanted to rob him, who seek him there on the fields they were pieces of his skin, and as such would defend them.
One day I was told that the afternoon would be the Court to proceed against him, to expel the land, seizing also to pay all her debts in the cabin.
That night and not sleep in it.
So outrageous was this for poor old Barrett, who smiled incredulously.
That could be for the cheats, for those who have not ever paid, but he had always fulfilled who was born there, they only had one year lease ...
