His excitement was growing, and began to laugh so as untimely, no one doubted it would end up by a loud explosion nervous.
Indeed, when least expected, alzose suddenly from his chair, ran to the balcony, opened it, and if not had been subjected to time had rushed to the street.
At length he fell with a strong attack which fortunately came soon.
Then came the flattening him bedridden three or four days.
Quarter took third in the Calle Serrano, very cute and happy he moved his furniture, and after installation began to slide his life, sad yes by the ever-present memory of his mother, but peaceful and serene.
Raymond turned his attention and care in Aurelia.
Imbued with his role as father and protector of the girl orphan she did what her mother had done for him until then, the served and pampered with a love and dedication that moved to the friends who visited.
Aurelia was not beautiful, nor had great talent, but felt for his brother because his mother had instilled, worship idolatrous.
However, even with regard to material life, the young man in the vacuum his mother.
Aurelia was trying to not miss anything, but was far from attain the supreme delicacy of it.
Gradually, however, was trained in the housekeeping.
In addition, Ray and did not require the refinement of earlier.
The feeling protection, awareness of the duties I had to fill to her sister, made him not think of himself.
On the contrary, any attention to Aurelia was surprised, and grateful as if it came from a child.
The room will cost twenty dollars.
There were more than a servant.
So that the income of eight thousand pesetas they possessed enough for them.
As part of the state came from and actions of a factory, his administration was the easiest.
Raymond was able to devote more ardor than ever to the study.
Wanted to comply, in respect to his sister, the promise he had made the mother, to give up his share of inheritance and provide a dowry to the marriage allowed well.
After he left home, was twice a week to the cemetery to scatter some flowers on the grave of his mother.
Sunday was carrying to Aurelia.
Usually little left.
The preparatory study to be a warning to opposition on the one hand, and another his hobby collector and teller of the insect world, accounted for most of his time.
For miracle came in the cafes, the theater could not attend because of mourning.
One day, being in a library of the Carrera de San Jerónimo, where he spent some moments leafing through the works of foreign newcomers, he managed to enter the shop a beautiful elegantly dressed lady.
Seeing her, eyes widened Raymond expressing amazement rested on her with an intensity that made her turn her head away.
While bought a French novel was contemplating the ecstatic, with signs of tampering in his face.
Leaving her let them fall down and tried to follow, but the door was a carriage waiting.
The footman, hat in hand, opened the door, and instantly pulled the horses with speed. - What is it, D.
I did not want to know more, and said goodbye.
This lady looked like an amazing way to his mother.
The situation of his mind, still shaken and sore, he had acquired such resemblance more attention to their eyes than they actually had, he would produce a vivid expression.
A few moments then passed by Osorio hotel three or four times, but failed to see again Mrs.
The next day was to ride and there he found retirement.
Since then spied and followed their steps with a consistency that revealed the deep sentiments that spirit.
Although this was rather the face of her mother, Clementina's face is Salabert "reminded him more energy.
This caused him acute pain, in which plate Although it seems paradoxical.
Well he that has seen the disappearance of this world a loved one.
There is usually some pleasure in scratching the wound, to renew the grief and crying.
Raymond could not envisage a long time Clementina's face without feeling the tears running down her cheeks.
However, there was a hardness and severity that he never possessed of his mother, but when he smiled, the disappearance of this hardness, the likeness was wonderful.
Not our boy hid the anger that the woman received from her dogged pursuit.
And was inwardly laughing at this strange error.
If I knew this lady - it was said when he saw a gesture of disdain on his lips - why I like it so much, how great would be his awe!
A wave of sympathy and even, you might say, he was linking to worship it.
If not for that aspect was imposing, it is easy that would have directed the word, it had been given to understand what gave him great comfort with his presence.
But Clementina was placed in an area so high that he feared his disdain.
Enough was showing him the only charge to contemplate.
Do not seek to confirm, first because he did not care, then it once confirmed will be forced to dismiss it, and did not want a woman who is both her mother seemed to figure out a wretch.
Failed to ask for news of it.
He was satisfied with where I could meet this strange desire to renew their pain, be moved to tears.
As not frequented high society could not attend the theater, to procure the needed pleasure to follow in the street or walk when not going away.
Also found that going to Mass on Sundays two Jeronimos, there could contemplate the more space and tranquility.
He realized his sister was found, but made no effort to show it.
Aurelia feared not as clear as he saw the likeness and tore part of his illusion.
Two or three times a week, Clementina used to go walking in the afternoon, as the day first saw it.
Raymond, from the viewpoint of his cabinet to the Calle de Serrano, converted into an observatory, spied upon arrival.
As soon as discerned in the distance casting to the streets to follow wherever he could.
The lady strongly resented this persecution, be the time for going home to his lover.
Not that it mattered much to be divulged his new love, but a remnant of decency that remained.
Besides, I knew, because he had recently said, that husbands, when surprise their wives in adultery and kill them, are exempt from responsibility.
As I was convinced that his detested, feared that would take advantage of this resource to get rid of it.
These vague terror, united the residue of shame she had, encouraged her irritation against Raymond.
His character violent, capricious, despotic, that is altered with unforeseen obstacles.
He had not even repaired well in the face of the young.
I hated him without deigning to take care of her figure.
Then, the calm with which she received the provocative gestures of contempt not spared, seemed an insult.
All things considered, this little boy was making fun of her, because it was not credible for a boyfriend to look both serene and cynicism.
No doubt, after warning that bothered her, it was proposed to mortify a vengeance.
And no doubt they could dutifully.
The laps seemed to take to outrun clarified, the visits did not win, all the anxieties that the boy had trouble, I did every day and they would most loathsome Burnt blood.
Devised out by car, get into the Calatravas and fire there, but Raymond, to be deprived for several days to see her, also gave the flower to take a car point and follow yours.
This caused overflowing anger and promised herself that cut intrusive and annoying chase, but did not know how.
First he thought that Pepe Castro speak, and threatened the boy.
To see the coolness with which it took him, was angry and did not mind the subject.
Then she imagined accost on the street and beg with little cold and contemptuous words that do not bother more.
When it came time not dared to do, but did not sin of timid: the trance seemed serious.
In these doubts and hesitations was, when, down the Calle Serrano, lifting casually eyes upward, happened to see in a high enough viewpoint to his enemy.
Cruzolo then mind the idea of ??finding out your name and write.
And indeed, violence that marked all his actions, as they passed the house and entered the portal went to the checkpoint of the porters. - Do you have the kindness to tell me who lives in the third quarter of this house? - They are two very young gentlemen, brother and sister.
Only live here for four months.
Orphaned apparently recently ....
The keeper, seeing a woman as smart, he was talkative and accommodating, but Clementina the interrupted immediately. - How is called the master? - D.
Raimundo Alcázar. - Many thanks.
And he went away.
He went out and gave a few steps.
But suddenly, he thought that the writing had its drawbacks, and it was actually better explanation verbal which no one who knew he could find at that time.
He stopped a indecisive moment, and suddenly turned around and went back into the portal.
Crossed without a nothing in front of the door, and climbed the stairs to light foot.
On reaching the third floor, despite the vigor and strength of character, felt a little faint and was the will about to turn.
His proud and stubborn temperament push, however, thought he had seen come and learn of his repentance.
On the floor third had two rooms left and right.
Clementina had seen papers in one.
Called without hesitation in noting that the right was a doormat for the front foot door sign that was inhabited.
He left to open a maid who asked D.
Raimundo Alcázar. - I see - said after he learned that he was home.
The maid entered the room, and how it seemed odd that visit, he asked: - Notice to miss? - No, no, tell you the gentleman, who's who wish to speak.
It was, while in his office, seized by violent agitation.
To see the lady go in the first portal was shocked no specific reason for it.
Tranquilizóse to see her leave, and again when he came back changed.
Crossed his mind the idea I could go home, but instantly dismissed it as unlikely.
Imagined rather would come to visit one of the principal tenants or second quarters, which were quality people.
However, in spite of his reason, not reassuring.
When he heard sounds the doorbell was terrified.
Just had a mind to go into the anteroom.
Before I could make a sign to the maid and it was open, forcing him to retire strongly to his office.
He was tempted to refuse, although it was the lady in the room.
Al finally decided to leave, thinking that there was no rational reason for it.
Raymond did not have many dealings with people.
The relations of his mother had been limited, some few relatives, some known families.
For its part, had not done anything to expand this circle.
We have already said that he had not narrowed intimate friendship with any of his classmates.
Less had sought entry into the casinos, gatherings and balls of the court.
His adolescence and youth days he had had crept calm within the home, studying and collecting butterflies.
He knew the life of books.
Nature had endowed him, not However, a clear and sympathetic wit, eloquent and a certain dignity of manners which supplied fairly well to the elegance and distinction to the continued friction foam society engenders.
Entered the room quiet and still with a vague and prone to the odd hostility lady step filled him.
The situation was so strange Clementina, despite his pride, his experience, his ease, and even it may be said the tear, it was suddenly embarrassed.
Felt the need to make an effort to buy brio. - Here you have me - he said sourly that was inappropriate and rude. - You tell me what I owe the honor of this visit - Raimundo said, his voice a little shaky. - Well .... (The lady hesitated a moment) I owe the honor done me by following me two months as a Chinese shadow everywhere.
Non-sick as the lay of the Madgyares, I stepped up to ridicule here to ask you to stop in pursuit.
If you have to tell me something interesting, tell me once and conclude.
Were these words spoken rashly, like someone in a situation false and exaggerating it wants out of anger.
Raymond looked at her in amazement, which Clementina upset and even more rushed. - Madam, I have offended in the soul ....
Clementina stopped him saying: - If you are going to declare your love can save the hassle.
I'm married ...
and although what would be the same. - No, ma'am, I will not make a statement - said the young entomologist smiling -.
I to explain to you my pursuit.
While I understand you've mistaken about the sentiments that inspire me, and I find it natural that have offended.
How far will you suspect the truth!
especially in circumstances in which now I am ....
Raymond became serious when he arrived here and paused.
Then he said abruptly, her voice altered by emotion - Madam, my mother has died recently ...
and you seem very much to my mother.
In pronouncing these words stared with anxious attention, wet eyes making heroic efforts to avoid breaking into sobs.
This revelation came in Clementina astonishment and doubt at the same time.
Rayford knew what was going through his mind, saying pushing the door of his office: - See you, see you if it's true what they say.
The lady took two steps and saw the border wall on the same couch table type, the enlarged photo portrait of a lady exceptionally beautiful, and that certainly looked quite like it, though not as clear as the boy said.
About the portrait, subject to the frame, had a bunch of evergreens. - Something we seem - said after watching the picture carefully -.
But this lady was more beautiful than me. - No, more beautiful, no.
Had more sweetness in his eyes, and that gave her face a charm unspeakable.
It was pure and kind soul that shone in them.
He was speaking with enthusiasm, regardless of the lack of gallantry he was committing.
Clementina's pride suffered even more for the innocence and sincerity with which they were uttered.
Raimundo's eyes trembled two tears.
The lady said at the end: - How old was your mom? - Forty-one years. - I I have thirty-five - he replied with barely concealed satisfaction.
His skin was smooth as satin.
Seemed those of a child ....
There was observed indirectly by saying a few swear words to the lady who was present.
This was strongly felt chopped, but dared not show it because the pain of the young and sincerity with which he spoke imposed respect.
What he did was change the subject, casting a curious look at the office. - It appears that you are dedicated to collecting butterflies. - Yes, ma'am, since childhood.
He brought together a very respectable number of species.
The I have very cute and curious.
Clementina approached one of the cabinets.
And I cast a quick glance of curiosity.
Clementina not sympathize much with men science, but it instilled some vague respect mixed with fear, as being foreign to part of the world who gives superiority. - Are you a naturalist? - Asked later. - Study to be.
My father has been ....
As he showed his wonderful collection with the special joy is not without disdain with which The sages teach their work to the layman, he was learning his simple life.
Arriving to the illness of his mother again moved and tears to spring to his eyes.
Tangerine I listened carefully, running it the cards that lay before her, leaving escape a few words, sometimes tinged praise to insects, either sympathy when Raymond came to describe the death of his mother.
He could not, however dispel the confusion that made her the rare step taken, the situation that was anomalous.
He left her abruptly, as he always did things.
He got serious and reached the boy, saying: - Many thanks for your kindness, Mr.
You see, I am married, and anyone would think that I breath or give any reason .... - Lose you worry, ma'am.
From the moment that you keep annoying me to follow.
Pardon me to grace the occasion - the young man pressed his hand in a natural affectionate sympathy and managed to interest the lady.
By contrast, became more serious and marched into the room.
As they passed her to open the door, he said frankly seductive - Not worth anything, ma'am, but if you would like to someday use my insignificant person You do not know the pleasure that would cause me to it! - Thank you, thank you - without stopping Clementina replied dryly.
Upon reaching the staircase door and pull the pin, the young man saw the head poke curious sister in the hall. - Come here, Aurelia - he said.
But the girl ignored and left quickly. - Aurelia, Aurelia.
Rather reluctantly, it stepped into the hall and walked towards them smiling and red as a cherry. - Here's the lady from whom I have spoken, which so resembles mom.
Aurelia looked at her not knowing what to say, smiling and blushing growing. - Does not seem a lot?
Dí. - I do not find the girl ...-- responded after some hesitation. - Do you see? - Said the woman turned to Raymond with a smile on the lips -.
No has been more than a fantasy, a hallucination.
There shone a bit of spite under these words.
Aurelia's presence was more even false situation. - No matter - said Raimundo -.
The door was open. - Both said Clementina ...-- like going to reach out Aurelia no, leaning one of these bows cold, dismissive, with the ladies quickly established aristocrats the distance that separates the speaker.
Aurelia offering muttered a few phrases.
Raymond came up the stairs to dismiss, repeating phrases and courtesy that did not impress the lady, judging by serious continent.
Down the stairs herself unhappy, overwhelmed by irritation.
It was the first time, neither the second either, that his impetuous temperament placed it in these situations anomalous and ridiculous.
VI # From the "Club of the Wild" to Calderon's house. # Picturesquely scattered over the couches and armchairs in the great hall Conversation Club of the Wild, lie to the 14:00 to 1:00 dozen of his most loyal members.
Further away is Manolito Davalos alone.
Pinedo beyond with some partners, among whom only know Rafael Alcántara and León Guzmán, Count of Agreda, for being the nightlife of the home of Amparo that so angered the Duke of Requena.
Not only partners provide each other money and play on their words but also perform same with the club, considered a legal person, and even the janitor at official capacity and as an individual
