Is that the nature there is no center of gravity with all the accuracy that science is?
not; center exists, it is not he missing, but the means to find him.
A satisfies these conditions dutifully nature: point exists, and not really to blame for the limitation of our experience.
Sticking to which is in favor of unextended points, it is without any difficulty of the center of gravity, in pure science.
The other dares not much, but comes to say: "You see that molecule, that little balloon infinitesimal diameter, whose smallness not enough to represent the imagination?
Make him smaller splitting for all eternity in decreasing geometric progression, in the ratio greater than podais conceive, and go closer always at the center of gravity without ever reaching it, the nature you do not miss ever: the limit before you retire, but will know for certain that you approach him.
Further into this molecule is what you seek, continuing to advance inside: do not find; but there it is. "I do not think that the reality in this case detracts from the scientific accuracy: mechanical theory or imagined or conceived, not going beyond. [35.] These considerations leave beyond doubt that the geometry in all its accuracy, theories in all its rigor, exist in nature.
If we were able to follow In our experience, we would find as the real with the ideal order, and discover when the experience is against the theory, provided that this is not wrong, it is because the limitation of our media makes us ignore the conditions imposed by the same theory.
The engineer who builds a system of gears is forced to correct their theoretical rules due to friction and other circumstances from the area in which constructs: if he could see a coup within nature discovered in the friction for example, a new gear system infinitesimal, confirming with admirable accuracy the same rules, that experience made him believe grossly belied by reality. [36.] If the universe is wonderful in his moles of immense grandeur, no less so in parts of infinite smallness, we are between two infinite, and the weak man who is nowhere to a or the other, must be content to feel them, hoping that a new existence will clarify the arcane currency that now not only profound darkness.
CLARIFICATIONS ON THE EXTENSION. [37.] If the extension is something, as we have already demonstrated, what is?
I have to my eye and hand me the pen, which is certainly no extension.
His movement is executed in the space remains still.
At time A, the extension of the boom have been occupying the A 'of space; when B, the same extension of the pen is actually occupying the B 'distinct space Part A ', then neither the A' of space, and the part B ', are identified with the extension the body.
This seems to have the full force of a demonstration, that for clarity and generality reduced to a syllogism.
The things that separate or be separated, are different, so the extension of bodies can be removed and separated from any part of space, then the extension of bodies and space are different things.
I said that this reasoning seems to have all the force of a demonstration, but no longer subject to serious difficulties, but how are you can not be understood without having considered the idea deeply space, I reserve to express my opinion, for if you try this in the chapters following. [38.] The extension of a body is the same body?
I can not imagine the body without extension, but does not prove that the extension is the same body.
My spirit has gained the knowledge bodies through the senses: they have given me or disperta, the idea of ??extension, but nothing I have said about the intimate nature of the body felt.
But the bodies we know nothing but what we experienced through the senses, without being there been given to penetrate the intimate nature.
