This is the great advantage enjoyed by this science.
It is so clear, so pedestrian and so simple, children of the doctrine could understand if they wanted.
And yet (something, incidentally admirable!), just take a step from ground so firm and sure, and from place usually so clear economists fall into a bottomless sea or within cimeriana dark night.
Economy Politics goes to escape, jumping from the truism to the sophistry with prodigious agility.
In the same issue of whether the precious metals, gold and silver are better than oxen for currency, unforeseen difficulties and contradictions occur.
Sample serves as : If the debt that the Spanish government has made and continues to contract is estimated at oxen could not be lower by 5 100 in one-twentieth, except that the seven lean breed of Pharaoh's dream and fill the world infinitely all of oxen cacoquimios and emaciated, but debt estimated PTA has made the cut with softness of a feather, and almost without anyone realizing it.
Oxen, man with large, unless the lean children, would always be oxen, but the new ESP not like the old, and the day that the minting of new currency is completed, we ensure that instead of duty, for example, 20,000 million reais, we 19,000, not be that alteration of the currency does not pray with the creditors of the State, and they continue to pay interests under the old law.
But leaving aside this issue, stating that while here we use the word money within the meaning of capital or wealth, we perfectly the distinction of these things, and have made all men of all ages, no need for economists indoctrinate.
The reason we call money at all wealth is that money is wealth without which you can not pass.
Money is also a value that flows more easily all other values, and represents and measured.
Money is not all wealth, but the moving, and more circulating liquid wealth.
Blood is not all life on the body, and yet not live if the blood does not circulate throughout the blood or if we escape, although not completely accurate comparison, because there is no comparison completely accurate.
There is nothing in the body that can replace the blood, but there is something in society that can replace money, and this something is credit, which does not create an atom over wealth, but put into circulation and provides mobility and near ubiquity and much of the wealth that stands and inert.
In short, the money, but replaceable credit is part of wealth, and so this as being the most lively, more energetic and more circulating is a pain to lose.
The company has no money, or the guy who has no money, already Aviados.
After many studies have inferred therefore that the money economists is indispensable to man from the moment that man lives in society, acute above, whose truth shines brighter than the midday light.
Sitting and these bases, I philosophize and a little discourse on the relationship of money (And generally of all wealth) with the customs and the highest powers of mind human.
The first and most capital is to believe that in our days, is money dearer at other times.
On this day, men are as always, but if some alteration has occurred, has been favorable.
Easy I would build here a multitude of historical examples, from the remotest ages so far, to prove that the interest has dominated the world since then, and his empire far from increasing, fell.
I would not, however, make a scholarly work but a meditation philosophical.
The satirical poets, novelists, authors of comedies of all past centuries have shown that at the time in which they lived was estimated more money than this.
While these sayings, ancient remains of what is called wisdom, come in support of what I say .-- For money the dog dances .-- Cobra and do not pay, that we are mortal gifts .-- Ten .-- soften rocks money, yours or someone else .-- Whoever has money, looks tambourines .-- And so could I keep citing to fill a print sheet.
But still I will quote another saying that, Spain is a very Catholic country, should be regarded as the most rising hyperbole all is done with money that everything is bought and sold, even the most venerable and holy.
The saying says: For my money, Dad I love him.
In countries with a backward culture, we see a phenomenon which, as we get civilized and a little more polishing, wanes, and that does not disappear completely.
Is this phenomenon disgrace, discredited, the strong suspicion, and even the horror that surrounds him that is poor, which is hated, when it is neglected.
The old Spanish proverb states that the money is the whole man: that is, that money is guaranteed straight, probity and integrity in whom you have.
Further away is yet another proverb: Poverty is not shame, but bouquet of spice.
Our immortal Cervantes, echoing the general sentiment, he says, not once, it is difficult for a poor to be honest.
Well you can bet that no one would think, in our century, San Jose excuse have been a carpenter, and assume that tickets had three or mortgage.
Neither by the blood nobility apologized poverty before having money has been in all Source century nobility.
Monies are quality, the din is better than the gift, are sayings corroborate my assertion.
The deep reverence that inspire the money and who has always been identical.
The has declined somewhat is the horror or contempt for the poor, and some pitfalls that must be rich in old, perpetually surrounded.
Prudent and discreet man was, not many years ago, everywhere, and the day has even, on many, to do if you can, a great mystery of the state of their finances, especially if it is or was very rich or very Poor: If you are very poor, so you will not despise, and if it is very rich, so you will not steal or kill him.
Here in this awful dilemma of being dismissed or threatened with death born that sentence of moralists, that civilized countries today seems so stupid and so absurd that I had that desire was a mediocrity of fortune, to live happily and quiet, not envious or envied.
Because, in truth, if money is a good while greater good, should be more palatable, and not conceived the golden mediocritas held by Horace and other poets of all times, but remembering that the wealthy man was continuously exposed to kill or mistreat him to steal, and the emperor or Prince under whose rule he lived, and greedy mob.
And when wealth was not annexed a high degree of power was a constant danger, and almost impossible to conjure.
I do not think I hate that deep that we had in the Middle Ages the Jews were just coming deicide people, but they were rich.
The frequent killings of Jews that occurred in Spain perhaps they had not come to fruition, if the Jews had been careful to stay poor.
Something similar can be said of the monks in recent days, after they lost retained the power and wealth, while the scandal has been lower because the sweetness of customs, the greater abundance of money and wellness, and more concerted and political way of life of men, have diminished the hatred of those who do not have that have.
Proof of this confidence about them is that now, in civilized countries, nobody or almost nobody treasures.
Popular literature is full of stories and legends of hidden treasures, guarded by a dragon, a giant or a monster terrible, nothing less was needed so as not to steal.
From here originated the idea of ??the wizards, who discovered the treasures.
The science of dowsing, now losing its poetic nature and superhuman, has come to be transformed into the Statistical auxiliary discipline of political economy, with respect to which, it becomes what is Anatomy in relation to physiology.
Statistics is a true delicacy of science, and so that it will soon form the uninitiated the concept that it deserves, we can define Science tells us snacks.
For this science finds out how much flour, how much meat, how many beans and chickpeas are devouring a year than is spent on clothing and footwear; what is produced and consumed.
All this would be easier to figure out if people fearful that the Government would impose a greater contribution, not disguise a little spent, pretending to be even worse treatment than is generally.
However, the desire to conceal and disguise the wealth that you have some money has gone almost everything in our age.
In the past was thus a danger that the money ran out to light, which had to be legitimately usurer who lent him.
Well, by chance, most revered, most adored the image that comes through the streets and squares, even when very devout procession, and bending everyone in their path the knee, the divinity itself, always hidden in the back of the sanctuary, for fear that the vulgar profane with their looks, and even whose name is incommunicable and unknown to those not initiated into its mysteries?
There are also many other reasons that the day is considered less money.
It is the second, which comes more easily credit to all parties.
It is the third that produces less interest. (None of these reasons militate in Spain today.
Economists explain why.) is the fourth, and perhaps the most powerful, that our century, as more civilized than previous ones, is also more spiritual.
And here I can not help stopping to condemn the ridiculous habit of giving in charge of materialistic century.
Music is the most spiritual of all art and flowers now flourish extraordinary.
Just no fool, who, if he had lived two or three centuries ago, not having received more than eating, not now enjoy, or at least do not say that enjoys listening to music wiser and convoluted.
Juan Ruiz, Archpriest of Hita, says there are only two essential things that move man: namely: Inspection and maintenance, and one that I would not dare to lie, although the tool Archpriest, shielded with Aristotle If dixiese of mine, would be to blame; Grand philosopher said to him, not me to crawl.
The music also moves and no man who does not like going to the Royal Theatre.
But the spirituality of our century is synthetic, and this is the reason that some, do not understand him, accused of materialistic century.
In the past, or if there was no matter and left it at home as something lost and given to the devil, falling which that were in the mill, or was abused and punished as rebellious subjects where people came to take in the most cruel asceticism.
In our time trying to rehabilitate people matter, in the best sense of the word, and purify it as they can.
The matter at last is God's work, and although some perverted by sin, is not something as abominable as says.
At last she has been resurrected and go to heaven, but transfigured and glorious.
So bad that I do not go polishing, perfecting, beautiful and subtilized in this world.
So not quite understand the significance of the principle of that ode of Pindar: High Don is water.
Rather, water was regarded with horror and fear, to cause the greatest evils, especially for people of a certain age.
A man of seventy, when or where there was, or has not fallen into disuse this saying, should or ought to have their skin covered with more stratification that our globe.
If this neglect of matter that existed in past centuries, is what is spiritualism, is should prefer to be materialistic.
But it seems to me that true spirituality is in cleaned, shelled and purified, so the soul and body.
A man can not clean feel so beastly appetites as a dirty man.
In many moral treaties, writings by monks, who washed little insurance, I have read so unprecedented precautions to prevent temptation, Pasman me and make me imagine that men and women would then be like tinder, gunpowder and fire.
One of these authors suggested that if there has to deliver something to a woman, put it to be delivered in one table or elsewhere, and not be given by hand, to avoid the slightest rub or casual touching, adding that people of different sex, they are more forthcoming, they must be at least a distance four rods.
The effervescence, which represents the excess of caution, no doubt came from of the limited water, which cools, molifica and even spiritualized.
In this sense we are also more spiritualist now.
While then the study of theology and lit overwrought feelings emotional soul in love, a love that could easily twist a bad part, now studying spirited youth, from his earliest years, business as serious as Krause Philosophy or political economy, are made more moderating force and less mischievous and acquire a Gravity really like them, and all the fire and freshness of imagination going, not poems and compliments to girls, but in rhymed prose dithyrambs mellifluous, pray free trade, prays to desestanco salt, now to another object of the same order as in the past old or even suspected that might be the target of many shots poetic and abductions lyric so wonderful.
These symptoms are noticed today spiritualization everywhere.
And homeopathy, to the infirmities of the matter is cured almost spiritually.
Recent discoveries of physiologists prove the rudeness with which nature proceeds so far in this nutrition.
To ensure, as evident truth that in less than a month completely moved all the atoms or molecules in our bodies and take others.
The soul, the hidden principle of life, virtue plasmante, energy reporting, how ontic, as a wise friend of mine called, is only what remains.
Life is, therefore, not poetic and figurative, but in all reality, a river, a whirlpool, a raging torrent.
A gentleman, to regulate bulk, you get to live seventy years and weighing six or seven arrobas can ensure that it has been, assimilated and owned as part from your body, from birth until the time of his death, some 5,000 or 6,000 arrobas substance which, if they are equipped with high density, perhaps forming a volume one, two or three cubic miles.
I see clear signs of approaching the time of these inventions.
The electro-biology is a science that begins now, and has yet to go a long way.
May not be far away the blissful and glorious day when fed in a less rude, volatilize our bodies, and to sustain in the air, and become ubiquitous, and communicate, and even light and airy.
For all these considerations and others that remain silent in order not to make very tedious digression, I have certainly our age, if they sin by something, or pneumatosis is plenty of spiritualism.
And yet, I say, in this century as a spiritualist, loves little more than money mostly.
I agree that there is this love, but not in that has not always been, and perhaps more alive.
At the time that a more perfect society will be well organized, the money will acquire a virtue most significant (approaching infallibility) that is intelligent, industrious and careful who you have.
The money will then represent the talent, work and other many virtues.
Not having money mean, almost equivalent to being lazy, ignorant and for little.
We have not yet, unfortunately, to this degree of social perfection, and there still many people who get the money badly.
