It is an old man who knows half world and know more than Lycurgus.
He has traveled to Chile, Bolivia and Peru, and know every inch the land where these hours have to be fighting armies.
I got curious, I sat up in bed and said aloud: - "Don Salvador, if not very sleepy, you want to get a little?
Take a mate and chat "Don Salvador .-- up immediately, rolled back the stone she sat up close to me, and smiling sat down again. - Imagine, Don Salvador, who for three long days that I walk between the hills, alone and deploy the lips, because the others are always behind. - We are accustomed, sir.
But once, many years ago, I too, in a long trip, I got tired of walking alone, find a partner (which would not have more worth found!), and put me in a case that I have not ever forget. - Was he a villain? - No, sir, but if you have patience, I'll tell how it was that, so that later you tell it, but do not believe it.
But I swear it's true, and if not, ask about it in Peru friends say where you go.
Don Salvador was when I told the curious adventure, which I started writing again I could hardly, in my plain and simple style, not daring to imitate the special language picturesque and adorned the narrator.
Don Salvador was in San Juan, in his youth as a laborer, had traveled almost the whole Republic mules driving from one point to another, under the orders of a foreman.
Thus as found in Salta, where he came to serve an old and known carrier.
There was few years, then, always in his office, went to Peru, he made a small capital is well the game soon dissipated, is forced to return to work, took the chasqui profession or own for which he did indefatigable strength suitable for horseback riding, or more properly, mule.
But that office, in a land where the Indian and running more quickly than the beast and can pass through places where it does not risk, it was not very lucrative indeed.
No is my purpose to narrate the vicissitudes of the life of Don Salvador, how the interior of Peru passed to the coast, and later became a miner in Copiapo, then going back to the Republic Argentina and finally occupied the honorable position of mail that played for ten years.
It was one of those trips as chasqui when the case came up he was referring.
