Pacha, which is head of the colony was established a very strict internal police, distributing jobs depending on age and gender, and all work was done in common, alternating so that one day dealing with the culture, the next went to the game, and vice versa; so that all products were distributed equally, as if there were more than one family.
In order not to renounce the Catholic religion, the inhabitants of this small republic built a chapel, placing in it some images of saints, took care to bring speakers it also in their migration.
Pacha, already invested with civil powers, wanted to reunite to them the performance of religious duties: he was the one who baptized, who sanctified marriages and burying the dead, being at once the priest, the judge and the legislator colony.
Among the stringent measures taken by him, to avoid detection, had dictated a law which commanded them to be buried alive all those who, under any pretext, tended to stay in touch with the people of Athens, so I could live ignored for so long, no one would be so reckless and daring to break a law this nature, and whose violation was bringing in so horrible after consequences.
It happened that a girl of thirteen years old, daughter of Manuel Cito, whose family was composed of his wife and this one girl, having often heard of savory taste that gives salt to food, he conceived the desire, and with this project, to procure the substance.
Without their parents gird escapóse the hamlet and taking the direction of Athens, arrived to this village, where, unseen, was introduced in an isolated house, and seizing all salt could be found, returned to Irimo with the proceeds of their theft.
During his absence, that was three days, the caretaker boss stopped perceiving the lack of girl practicing thousand pesquizas to know of his whereabouts, and urging parents to closely to tell him what was hers.
In the midst of these investigations are featuring the young fugitive, and the content of their cargo is discovered that came from Athens, where, on the other hand, she confessed to state.
Pacha immediately sent to the punished to the full rigor of the law, but at the time of execution, all the inhabitants gathered implored his grace with such request, and the poor girl had so many protests that finally the head Gave forgiveness.
Six or seven months, entirely forgotten that he had escaped death tempted a second excursions for the same purpose, and having done all the spy Pacha directions with strict orders to apply the terrible punishment decreed for him, was pinned Four days later, and neither tears, nor could soften his despair at his captors, incontinently that posed by the horrendous ordeal of being buried alive.
The unhappy parents, overwhelmed with horror to the news of such an event, abruptly fled of Irimo, and went to Aten to complain to the judge the awful punishment which had just suffered its daughter thereby discovered the mansion in Pacha.
Immediately ordered the authority apprehends this, which was made so, you drove to La-Paz for trial but it took so long to execute him, that in 1823, when the city fell to the Patriots, Pacha was seen covered by a general pardon and could then return to his country.
Irimo still exists, and is composed of the same families, subject to the jurisdiction this Aten civil and ecclesiastical.
Its inhabitants, the great fertility of the land enjoy all the comforts of life, under a mild, in a delightful position.
The waters of the river to meet the Aten are Mapiri, a tributary of the Beni: at Moreover, this is the only power center in the province that does not address the Tuyche.
Under this denomination usually meet people from inside, such as San-Jose of Chupiamonas, Tumupaza, Cavinas Isiamas and separated all of them, vast deserts, from those just discussed.
I will therefore also describe these people, old missions, also founded, as stated above, by the Franciscan Fathers.
SAN-JOSE DE CHUPIAMONAS.
Coming to the northeast of Apollo, and going through horrible roads full of dangers of all kinds, in the middle of a desert without end, and after thirty-eight leagues a march excruciating, it finally comes to St.
The people composed of seventy-three Indians, all similar to the Athenians, who speak the same language, is located near the confluence of the said river which forms the Tuyche, which is so wide at that point, it is necessary to pass it on rafts, so that people are very helpful to the travelers and merchants, dealing in a band pass of river to the other.
Because so little number of its inhabitants, had intended to gather this population with that of Aten, but the just claims of the dealers have made retained as an indispensable item for trade.
The San-Jose temperature is very warm, but why is there any way know diseases: their abode can not be more pleasant, it seems that nature had pleased to pour out his gifts in uncivilized places, with a bounty worth the promised land.
The foreigner who comes to Saint Joseph is stunned with admiration at the sight a vegetation so beautiful, and the infinite variety of fruits that abound there.
Indeed its forests offered all over the vanilla, balsam oil, Recinos, aromatic bark, gums, wax and honey and many medicinal plants.
There spontaneously Críanse the most exquisite fruits, and including cocoa, which grows wild without being planted by bear abundant crops everywhere.
The game offers prodigious amount of birds and quadrupeds: among these may be mentioned the large beast, the bear-ant, the parrot-light many deer and wild boar, and a kind of very little pigs, called on the country Quebo-queres.
The Tuyche also abounds in fish.
Finally, this extraordinarily fertile soil produces rice, maize, cassava, peanuts, bananas, pineapples, cotton and sugarcane-sweet, but all of these productions serve only for the consumption of the population, and in no way to trade.
Twelve miles northeast of San-Jose, on a small rocky hill composed of whitish and in the middle of a horizontal field, covered with small forests or grasslands, is old mission located Tumupaza [1], converted to this in a parish.
When the months of August, September and October, up one on the hills, warnings to the distance, on many different points, the smoke produced no doubt by the fires of the savages, which unknown until today live in such places as to Tumupaza surrounding fertile.
These Indians, belonging to the nation tacana are well made and elegant figure, have black hair and very fine, regular face and a pale white complexion, her face is pleasant and expressive, and everything in them the joy announces.
Are otherwise very plain: all your dress is a robe made of cotton fabric, which falls to them knees, and he has only half sleeves, are always bare, and no cover head
