[93.] From these considerations, that even when born naturally gravitation the same position of the bodies, this need not produce the order, if the results it were not subjected to certain laws.
Then, assuming the fixed roof, the east and the West does not mean anything fixed.
I said that space, as distinct from bodies, is nothing but the object of the idea of ??space is the same extension of the body; or rather, this extension is the foundation from which we get the general idea of ??space, and she his turn, is also included in the general idea. [107.] Say as Kant, that space is the form in which the phenomena before us, and that is a subjective condition necessary for the perception of them is tantamount to saying that phenomena, presenting as extensive, require that the spirit is able to perceive extension, what is very true, but nothing explains the nature of the idea of space or another, either in its object. "The space, says Kant, is not an empirical concept derived intuitions of space: as for certain sensations be referred to external objects that is, to some thing in a different place that I occupy, even for me to represent things as foreign to each other, that is, not only as different but as occupying different places, the representation of space must already start principle.
Note that no treatment of the appreciation of the dimensions, but simply the extension represented, at any rate.
For this phenomenon, I see no nothing is needed a priori to be understood unless the faculty of feeling, which in effect exist a priori, ie it is a primitive fact of our soul in its relations with organization of the body that is united, and others around him.
Under certain conditions of our organization, and the bodies that affect the soul receives impressions see or touch, and with them the extension.
This does not appear in the abstract, either as separate of the other sensations that accompany them, but confusing them.
The soul does not reflect then to consider what a post here, another there, the rest yonder, but has an intuition of this provision of the parties, nothing more.
While failure is confined to the pure sensation, it is common to the wise, the ignorant, the adult, children, and even to all animals.
This does not need any a priori, if such is not understand the power of feeling: what does not signifying nothing but a being to feel, you must have the ability to feel, not be advertised as a philosophical discovery. [109.] There is no such discovery in the doctrine of Kant on space: no more than, for First, the consignment of a very well known and, secondly, the renewal of idealism.
The provision of a well known fact: for this is equivalent to noting that the intuition space is a subjective condition necessary for us to perceive things around outside others.
The renewal of idealism in this extension is denied to all reality, considering things, and their disposition in space as pure phenomena, or as mere appearances.
The of observation is true in the background, because in fact we can not perceive externality of things together, and with respect to us, not the intuition of space; but perhaps not expressed with sufficient accuracy, because the intuition of space is the same perception of the externality, and therefore should rather be said that intuition of space and this perception are identical things, not that the former is a indispensable condition for the second. [110.] Prior to the impressions, there is no such intuition, and reflecting well on it is about pure intuition, and separated from intellectual concepts, it is inconceivable without walking accompanied by a representation of the five senses.
Imagine the space pure, without any of these representations, without leaving even that vague sombre pretend in regions beyond the universe, what we have left?
The imagination is without an object: the intuition ceases, and we are down to the purely intellectual concepts that we form of the extension, the ideas of a possible order of things, the affirmation or denial the existence of this order, depending on the views we profess about the reality or unreality of space. [111.] It is clear that a number of pure feeling, nothing is usually nothing that can serve as a foundation to a science.
Are a set of phenomena that leave their mark on memory of being sensitive to be bonded in a way, so that repeated representation of one, it excites the other, but not give any general result, which might support to geometry.
The dog must have seen a man who was inclined towards the ground, after was moving, and threw a stone, and in consequence will have experienced a painful sensation; when they see another man in the attitude of bowing, and then taking the gesture of the last time, start running, because linked in his memory the sensations of leaning, the gesture, and pain, will energize the third with the presence of the first two: and instinct of preservation of the damage will inspire the leak. [112.] When these feelings are in an intelligent, excite other internal phenomena, different from mere sensory intuition.
Whether our spirit is the general ideas is to be formed with the help of the feeling, the truth is that they develop in the presence it.
So in this case, not only have the sensitive intuition of extension, but we perceive something common to all extended things: the extension is no longer a particular object and becomes as a general form applicable to all extended things.
Then, there is no the intuition of the extended, there is the perception of the extension itself, then begins reflection on the idea, and its subsequent decomposition, of which emerge as fruitful germs, certain principles are developed to infinity, forming the huge tree of science that his name is geometry. [113.] The transition from sensation to the idea of ??the contingent to necessary, of the particular fact to general science, provides important considerations on the origin and nature of ideas, and high character of the human spirit.
Kant seems to have confused the imagination of space with the idea in spite of their efforts analytical depth is not as much as he appears, when you consider the space as a receptacle of the phenomena, and this, again, is a very common idea, just that he has destroyed Kant objectivity, making the space a purely subjective condition.
According to this philosopher, the world is all the appearances that present themselves to our spirit, and as we imagine on the outside, a boundless receptacle containing it all, and there is nothing contained, and he has placed within us the space, as a preliminary condition, as a form of phenomena, such as a capacity in which we distribute and manage. [114.] In this Kant has confused the imagination roams with the idea.
Behold limits these things.
We see an object: we have the sensation, and intuition of the extension.
Space seen or felt, in this case the extension itself felt.
Imagine many objects extensive, and a capacity in which everything is contained.
She comes to us in our imagination, as the immensity of the ethereal regions, as unfathomable depths, and dark regions, beyond the limits of creation.
So far no idea, no more than imagination, born from that beginning to see the bodies, we see the air around them, and transparency This allows us to see distant objects, and so from our childhood we usually imagine empty capacity, which are located all the bodies and different from them.
So far there is no idea of ??space, but imagination is not it, kind of sensible idea, rough, probably common man and the brute.
The true idea, worthy only this name is the one with the spirit when he sees the extension itself, without any mixture of feeling, which is like the seed of the whole science of geometry. [115.] And here it is necessary to note that the word representation, applied to pure ideas intellectuals, should be taken in a metaphorical sense, unless it be to have removed from its meaning everything can refer to the sensible order.
For the ideas we know the objects, but not we represent the objects.
Representation as such, but occurs only imagination, which by necessity referred to sensible things.
If I prove properties the triangle of course is that you know, I have an idea of ??it, but this idea is not that internal representation is being offered as a blackboard.
This representation has it around the world, have the same irrational, and yet can not say that the gross have an idea of ??the triangle.
That representation is equally perfect in all, there is in her more and less, who imagines three lines, closing an area, has the representation triangle with such perfection as Archimedes, what can not be verified in the same idea of ??the triangle, which obviously is susceptible of many degrees of perfection. [116.] The representation of the triangle is always limited to a certain size and shape.
When imagine a triangle, we offer their sides with this or that extension, and their angles or less large.
The imagination, the representársele an obtuse triangle, you see a thing different from a rectangle or acute-angled, but the idea of ??the triangle itself is not subject to or to size or to particular figures, extending to all the triangular shapes of all sizes.
The general idea of ??triangle dispenses need for all species triangles, and the imagination of the triangle is necessarily the representation of a triangle of this or that species.
Then the representation and the idea are very different things, even referring sensitive to objects. [117.] The same happens with the space.
The representation of him is not his idea.
In this representation we always offer something specific: a clarity as the sunlit air; blackness as the very air in a dark night.
In the idea, there is nothing of this: when reasoning about the extension, on the distances, you should not get any of this.
The idea of ??space is one, the representations are many, the idea is common to the blind as which has a view, for two is also the foundation of geometry, but the representation is very different about them.
Which overlook the space is represented as a reproduction confused feelings this way, the blind, can only be represented as a confusing repetition of the sensations of touch
