The extension considered in us is an idea and a primary fact.
Scientific fruitfulness of the idea of ??extension.
It is the basis of geometry.
Simplicity of the idea of ??extension.
This reality is necessary, if not to destroy the reality of the outside world.
Reality the extension and geometry.
The geometric accuracy made in nature.
Examination of two minds about the divisibility of matter.
The same result both cases.
Clarifications on extension.
The extension and bodies.
More clarification on the inseparability of these two ideas.
If know the essence of the extension.
Importance of questions about space.
Reasons against those who support them, denying the reality space.
Review of Descartes and Leibniz on space.
Doctrine of Descartes.
Doctrine of Leibnitz.
A remark on it.
Invalidity of an argument that he contends.
Opinion of those who believe that space is the immensity of God.
Review of Leibnitz.
Review of Fenelon.
A doctrine of theologians on the perfections of God.
It examines Fenelon doctrine.
Doubt about the true meaning of his words.
It explains what the space.
Analysis of the generation of the idea.
Uncertainty inseparable from these materials.
The extent and location.
What is change of place.
A single body can not move.
Priori demonstration of the impossibility of certain figures in a single body.
Priori demonstration of universal gravitation.
Not sufficient to explain the existence of movement, and its regularity.
Illusion of fixed points in space.
It examines the fixity of the four cardinal points.
If God could give to a single body movement.
Opinion Descartes and Leibnitz.
Benefits to include the idea of ??space in the extension abstract or generalized.
Comments on the opinion of Kant.
Doctrine of this philosopher.
Confusion of ideas.
He made the discovery that it contained.
We must not confuse the imagination of space with his idea.
Limits of these two things.
System gives rise to Fichte.
Kant in contradiction with some of his disciples on idealism.
The problem of sensory experience.
What is the problem of experience.
This raises the final.
Considerations on the abstracted extension of phenomena.
The extension is not one of the things that enter the extended thing.
Analysis of the extension.
Uselessness of the definitions used to explain that.
The phenomenal extension and geometric extension.
Considerations on the fixity of the measures.
Range of vision.
Futility of touch to a fixed size.
Agreement of art and science.
The reality and appearances.
What is the corporeal world in the eyes of a pure spirit.
Pure geometry is separable from sensible.
What is extension is stripped of all sensitive.
Why we find it difficult to conceive of intelligibility pure corporeal world.
Necessity of metaphysics.
Failure of philosophy that reduces the world to movements and figures.
The body of mathematical and natural body.
Failure of this distinction to resolve the difficulty.
Towards one based on mathematical considerations.
Non-subsistence which is based on the parity of the number generated by the unit.
A conjecture on the transcendental notion of the extension.
A mistake that is suffered in the investigations into the first elements of the extension
