To hear, suddenly stopped Doña Paca, as the little mouse that night, feeling constantly gnaw steps or the man's voice.
Was heard only, for a long time, the occasional sigh very profound for the lady, who then began to complain and grumble under his breath.
Quick crisis had made the genius of the unhappy lady, determining a sharp turn of vane.
Trocáronse anger and displeasure to the point tenderness and affection.
Occur soon the clearest symptom of sedation, he was a keen remorse of what he had said and shame to remember, did not mean anything because the grunts, and complain imaginary pain.
Looks like I applied a hot iron on the side, and tear me to pulling the leg bones.
I have the head as if I had got the brains, putting in place of bread crumbs and parsley finely chopped ...
Not bothered, I have not told me make a cup of lime, rub me back and give me a ballot salicylate bromide, or sulphonal ...
This is horrible.
And then I complain to God, and say things and to insult him as if he were a nobody.
I really deprived of many goods, but I have given your company and friendship, which is worth more than gold and silver and shiny ...
Y I remember now, what do you advise I should do in case of renewed D.
Francisco Morquecho and D.
José María Porcell embassy with that inheritance? ... - But, Madam, if thats what you dreamed ...
and such men are a thousand years achantaditos very underground. - You are right: I dreamed ...
Because this is a sign of inheritance safe. - And you, what you dream? - Me?
Look you, who tells us that this old house, once inhabited the rich merchants, there is within such partition wall or a pot full of pelucones well? - I have heard tell that in the last century lived here a few stockists of cloth, powerful and when he died ...
no money was not found.
There have been cases, many cases. - I have certainly money is on this farm ...
I do not know! - Benina murmured, letting fly his mind wander to the eastern spells proposed by Almudena. - And if the walls do not, under the tiles of the kitchen or pantry can be what these gentlemen hid, thinking that they would enjoy in the afterlife. - May be ...
But it is more likely to be in the walls, or a guess, on roofs, including beams ... - I think you're right.
The same can be up than down.
I assure you that when strong floor in hallways and dining room, and swept through the mansion as if to collapse, I think I feel a ruidillo ...
Date walks around the room, stomping, and hear ...».
Benin and his wife obeyed his command, with no less conviction and faith that she, in effect ...
heard a metallic clang, which could not only come from the huge amounts of silver and gold (probably more gold than silver) embedded in the ancient factory.
The house was like a huge body, sweating, and each of its infinite pores let go one ounce, or center, or twenty-one and a quarter penny.
XXVII In the early morning the next day was Cambroneras Benina way, with his basket on his arm thinking, not without concern, in the exaltation of the good Almudena, which would lead to early madness, if she, with her very quick, he could not restrain the right.
Below the Puerta de Toledo and found the other poor Burlada calling a stubborn child.
Said to her fellow parishioners who had moved his home to the Bridge, not being able to fix in the kidney of Madrid with the high cost of rent and the meanness of the fruit of charity.
In a shack by the river gave accommodation for little more than nothing, and this advantage united to ventilate the field trips that gave morning and afternoon, the river and point to point river.
because although little is gained, there is a settlement.
In short: with this and something goes down, live, Dona Benin, and can be a bug in the rich.
Goodbye, which have fun, and find your health Moor ...
As he found a small square, bordered on the west side by a common building, the south by the railing of the bridge abutment, and the other two unequal sides sandy slopes and embankments, are born wild thorns, thistles and stunted grass.
The site is colorful, airy, and might almost say happy, because since it is dominated by the green banks of the river, washing and dish clothes tenderijos thousand colors.
To the west stands the mountains, and the opposite bank of the river cemeteries San Isidro, San Justo, offering a spectacular view to both tuft of cemeteries and both dark green cypress ...
The melancholy inherent in the cemeteries not deprive them in that picture, its decorative nature, as a good backdrop added by man to Nature.
eight ten or more donkeys, with their angry red collars, and with them groups of Gypsies sunbathing, which flooded the neighborhood with its radiant light, cheerful giving shine to were adorned with colorful gross and people.
In the animated huddles all was laughter, chacota, running to and fro.
The girls jumped, the boys ran in pursuit; the children, dressed in rags, tumbled, and donkeys were kept only serious and reflective in the midst of unrest and commotion.
Old gypsy women, some tanned complexion and black circle gossiping in separate Grandón arrimaditas the building, a house regular racer look.
Two or three girls wash cloths in the middle puddle of the square is formed with escurriduras and waste from the local source.
Some of these girls were very dark skinned, almost black, which highlighted the filigree hanging their ears, others color of mud, all agile, graceful, and drop-waisted esbeltísimas language.
He sought the old familiar faces among those people, and look around here and there, thought he recognized a gypsy who had once been in the hospital, going to pick up a friend of hers.
He would not approach the group in which such other disputed on a donkey whose sores were the subject of lively discussion, and waited a favorable opportunity.
This was soon come, because entangled two churumbeles clean punch, the one with legs open from top to bottom, showing the black cops, the other with a sort of turban on his head, and all dressed in a man's sweater: the gypsy came to separate; ayudole Benin, and Immediately afterwards he holed in this way: "Tell me, good friend, have you seen around here yesterday and today to a blind man they call Almudena moro? - Yes, ma'am: halo seen ...
jablao with him - said the gypsy, showing two teeth racing ideal because of their whiteness, equality and perfect preservation, which highlighted within the case two large, fleshy lips, a violation retinto -.
We saw in the bridge ...
she said she dende dwelling houses last night Ulpiano ...
Desapártese, good woman, this beast is many inconsiderate, and kicks ...».
Benina fled from the chair, looking around him the great hind legs of a donkey, two peas beaten, and to know the tricks and his education asses and gitanesca, and went to the houses that he motioned that of perfect teeth.
Start of the esplanade a winding road or street towards the bridge of Segovia.
In left as you enter it, is the house broker, a vast hive of rooms poor worth six pesetas a month, and follow the walls and outbuildings of a fifth or farm Valdemoro call.
On the right, several ancient houses, dilapidated, with indoor pens, dirty rusty fences and walls, offers the most irregular, decrepit and miserable that architecture can be urban or rural.
Some doors boast beautiful tiles with San Isidro figure and date of construction, and the dilapidated roofs, full of humps, twisted vanes are made of sheet iron, gracefully wrought.
As you approach, noting Benina somebody showed up to a fence on the ground floor, he intended to ask was white donkey, excessive ear, which headed out when she began speaking.
Came the woman in the first corral, paving, all bumpy, uneven door rooms and sheds or stalls vivideros covered with rusted tin sheet: the only wall white or less dirty than the others, saw a boat painted with ocher, three-masted frigate, child style, with fireplace which curves out smoke.
In this part, a woman scrawny wash rags in a trough: it was a gypsy, but paya.
For the reasons that this gave him, in the left part of the Roma lived with his donkeys, in peaceful community room, for bed each other the holy ground, serving as pillows troughs the sound.
On the right, and also blocks borriqueñas, no less filthy than others went to sleep at night many of those who are poor in Madrid: ten cents were given a portion of the soil, and live.
Almudena detailed signs of Benin, said the woman who, in fact, had slept there, but other poor people was gone early, it did not provide those bedrooms to laziness.
If the woman wanted a message for the Moor blind, she would give, if come the second night to sleep.
Thanking the scrawny, left Benin, and went across the street below, watching to either side.
Expected to distinguish one of those bald hillocks of the Moroccan Fig sunbathing or delivered to his melancholy.
Ulpiano past houses, are not the right rather than arid, rocky slopes, landfill debris, slag and sand.
As a hundred meters from the Esplanade is a curved or zig-zag rather, leading to the station Fleas, which is recognized from below by the stain of coal in the ground, the fences enclosure of way, and something that steams and boils above all this.
The day was peaceful: vivid light accentuated the bright green of the greens and the purple of the cabbage, pour across the landscape shouts of joy.
He walked and stood alone several times, looking at gardens to feast their eyes and spirit, and the arid hills and saw nothing resembling the image of a blind Moor sunbathing.
Back to the Esplanade, down to the margin river, and ran the laundry and the shacks that are supported by the buttress, and found no no trace of Mordechai.
Dejected, he turned to the Madriles up, intending to repeat the day following their investigations.
At home he found no novelty, I mean, yes, found one that might well be called wonderful event, a work of genius Samdai underground.
Shortly after entering, said to Dona Paca with joy: "But, my dear, do not you know ...?
I wanted you to come to tell you ... - What, ma'am? - Who's been here D.
Priest, a nasty issue you, and he came to me with complaints. - There is nothing like that. - Do not you see him you leave home?
I felt a deep voice here, as main person, I did not understand anything ...
He just said he wanted me for a matter of great interest. - In that case, again. - Not very soon.
He said that this afternoon had to go to Guadalajara.
You've heard of that trip. - I think so ...
Someone said something down to the station, and the suitcase, and I do not know why. - Well, you see ...
Celedonia can call for me to explain better.
that Guadalajara would come around ...
Two or three times repeated: "Tell your wife that has been here D.
Benina, confused for a moment because of the rarity of the case, gave soon to be forgotten for having more important things to occupy their understanding.
He found Vial so much better, they agreed to lift the bed, but to take the first steps room and hallway, he found the lover with the news that her right leg had been a bit invalid ...
Expected, however, that with good food and exercise regain its activity and that member firm.
Would soon discharged.
Its recognition the two ladies, and particularly Benin, would last as long as life ...
New felt encouragement and new hope, cheerful omens soon get a good placement allowed to live in ease, having their own home, however humble, y. ..
Anyway, that was lively man, and the pharmacy inexhaustible optimism was restored sooner.
Since all attended Nina, and no need of the people under their care is forgot, saw fit to warn the ladies of San Andrés Costanilla, sure have missed the absence of a dependent. "Yes, bring me the favor of a recadito on my part - said the gallant, admiring this new trait estimate -.
XXVIII He found a tattered old man who used to ask, with a girl in her arms, at the Oratory Olivet, which told him crying over their misfortunes, which would be enough to break the rocks.
The daughter of this mother of the child, and one that stayed home sick one neighbor, had died two days' misery, lady, tired of so much suffering laying the gofes in search of a medium muffin. " What did it now with two kids, not having to keep if for himself did not draw?
The Lord had his hand stopped.
Wanted no more to die, and to bury soon, soon, to stop seeing the world.
His only aspiration was to leave worldly colocaditas the two girls in a arrecogimiento of many that are for infants of both sexes.
He had found a kind soul, a man ecclesiastical who offered the girls put in an asylum, but when I thought I had managed the business, the devil came to break it down ... "You see, Madam, do you know a man by chance very priest showed up called D.
Romualdo? - I think so - said the beggar, again feeling a lot of confusion or dizziness in head. - Tall, well built, habits of fine cloth, or old or young. - He says that is called D.
Romualdo, yes ma'am. - Will ...
by chance, one that has a niece named Doña Patros? - I do not know how to call, but niece is ...
Was in me, yesterday afternoon, right.
I'm going home, and tell me that he had gone to Guadalajara. - Just ...-- Benina said, more confused, feeling that the real and imaginary scrambling and intertwined in the brain -.
