Had time to leap to the home of Weasel, and re- point to return to his home of Dona Bernarda.
Said and done.
A moment later came diligent in the hypocritical old tabernuca that faces the public in the establishment above, and the first thing he saw there was the picture of Luquitas abominable, the husband of Obdulia, with other lost and two or three ragged women, playing cards in a dirty circular coffee table, between glasses of Carignan and Camus.
At the time of going to Benin, had just a game, and before you put your other hand, the son of Doña Paca shot foul on the table cards, dirt racing in the hands of the players stood up unsteadily, and language and fine half-confused, which usually employ drunk, offered the maid of his mother a glass of wine. "Stand back, sir, I've drunk ...
No I wanted to be wrong with this mob, so he could thunder, and without wasting time bickering getting into the vicious Luquitas, by the neglect in which his wife had, went straight to its object: "What is not around the Pitusa? - Here's to serve - said an emaciated woman, coming out of narrow little door, well hidden among the shelves filled with bottles and bottles that were behind the counter.
As a crack that leads to the cache of an eel, so was the door, and the exemplary women thinner, stunted and elusive that could be found in wildlife such females belong.
His face was so thin that when you see him in profile could tenérsele built sheet, as the figures of the vanes.
In his neck did not fit more seams, and a your ears earring hole was so big that he could get with all a finger play.
Jagged teeth and black, bald eyebrows, eyelashes, bleary, the tender eyes, lynx-eyed, completing his physiognomy.
The body does not have to say but which are difficult to find exactly comparable ways to those of a broomstick dress, or, if desired, covered with rags scrubbing floors, arms and hands, that gesture seemed whipped, as a fox runs like dusting the face of the interlocutor of his speech and accent, which sounded as if gargling, and strangely enough, I will say also to give complete idea of ??the person, that all these externalities unpleasant it appeared a breeze of kindness, a moral attractive, so ensuring that the Pitusa term was not far from unfriendly. - "What brings you here Benina Sena? - Said shaking hard on both shoulders -.
I heard tell you were in big, rich house ...
And the Weasel, is it? - What you want, Sena Benina? - Daughter, you know him wonder, if healthy. - We argue.
The wound is opened when you least think. - Oh dear ...
The other partly tore a very narrow staircase, which rose by one after another. "It's a decent person, as they say, character - added Benina, safe and to find there the unfortunate gentleman. - De la grandeur.
Cooker and kitchen shelves served as a reservoir of empty bottles, broken boxes, broken chairs and lots of rags.
On the ground, on a miserable pallet lay full length D.
Ponte Francisco in sleeves shirt, still, the face was broken.
Two big women, kneeling on either side, the one with a glass of wine and water, rubbing poking the other, we were shouting: "Come back in yes ...
Benin, fennel, it was also yelling, shaking, "D.
Bottle of my soul, what is that?
Ponte unsupported in the chambers of Bernarda arrimose the doorway of the chapel Irishmen for the night.
Total: the poor poor old man painted it had to be uncomfortable, and chase them with the stick raised to beating, pataplum, round fell to the ground.
Released them laughing, thinking he had encountered; but when he did not move, came, also came near the serene, he began to face the torch and then saw it was an attack.
Húrgale here, húrgale there, and the good lord as a dead body.
Called the Weasel, discouraged him, saying it was all a sincopiés, and as it is charitable, good Christian he, and had also studied a year of Veterinary sent bring him home to assist and give back his breath with poultices and rubs.
This was done by charging between the two and another partner, because the patient weighed a bunch reeds, and at home, pinches and rubs force, came to himself, and thanked them so kind.
The Pitusa asked him some soup, he took with relish, giving each time the most thank very much ...
so fine, and so remained until the morning, well apañadito on his pallet.
They could put in a room all night because there was just the unemployed, and there in the old kitchen was very good, being part of ventilation.
The worst thing was that morning when he rose to leave, he repeated the attack, and all gave day long every hour a syncope so tremendous, that was a corpse, and it was hard to get back to God and help itself.
Had left him in shirtsleeves, because he complained heat, but there was the clothes without anyone to touch her, nor anything of what toil he had in his pockets.
Weasel had said that if not recovered in the night, would part of the delegation to bring him to the hospital.
Pitusa Benina said the pain was sent to the hospital to such an illustrious matron, and she is determined to take him home, yes ...
Struck the mind of the old one bold idea, and the resolution was primary quality of his character, he hastened to put it in implemented expeditiously. "Want to hear a word now? - Pitusa told her, seized her the arm out of the kitchen.
And at the end of the hall, entered the room only vividera of the house: a bedroom with double bed iron hook point quilt, mirrors twisted sheets of concubines, comfortable crippled, and San Antonio in its base, with flowers rag and oil lamp.
The dialogue was quick and nervous "What is offered? - Well, not much.
Lend me ten dollars. - Sena Benina, are you in your mind? - In them I am, Teresa Rabbit, as it was when I lent you a thousand real, and I saved to go to jail ...
It was the year and day of the cyclone that ripped trees the Botanical ...
I met you that we bought together ... - I saw a strong commitment. - I was beginning to roll down the world ... - And rolling, rolling, fell into temptation ... - And how you served in big house, I figured I said, 'Well, that, if you want, you can get me. " - You came to me with fear ...
Then you, as you made peace with the wine store, I paid ... - Hard on hard. - Well, now I'm the one that has fallen: I need two hundred reals, and you'll give them to me. - When? - Right now. - Mecachis ...
I will pay it soon; and if you want real hard, there incomeniente. - It's not that: it is that I have no quarter cut in half.
This does not bring cattle indecent but misery. - Válgate God! "Y. ..? - No, I have no jewelry.
Not mine: they are the King of Clubs, a friend of Rumaldo that gave them to keep and Rumaldo gave them to me. - Well ... - If you give me your word play within eight days and bring it to me, but word formal, San God!
Give ten long, because one of them has a bright which gives the falls. " Little more was said.
If someone did, would not have heard more than a blink of the dresser drawers, a whisper of Benin, and harsh gargle of the other.
XXII Soon the two women back next to the collapsed Frasquito, entered the Weasel, which was Achille a strapping young man of fine appearance, with complexion and features some gitanescas, wide-brimmed hat, well tight waist, and the first thing he said was soon to be conducted on interfezto Hospital.
Benina protested, arguing that the disease was Ponte those requiring home treatment and family at the hospital would die without remedy, and thus worth more than it will take home of Dona Francisca Juarez, which, although it had been very least, still was in position to make a charity, housing countryman Mr.
de Ponte, with whom he had, if I remember, distantly related.
In this he turned his fading the poor lover, and recognizing his benefactress, he kissed her hands, named Angel, and what I know why, very joyful to see her at his side.
With an imperious gesture, followed by a kick, the Pitusa urchin ordered the two to leave his duty in the front door; The Weasel fell to ship, and standing alone the Benina and her friend to the poor Ponte, I wore the coat to take him away and Levitin. "Here in confidence, D.
I swear it - Frasquito answered with languid accent, drawing from his mouth words as with a hook -.
but not that ...
if I will say at the end ...
graphy. " He fumbled in the pocket of his coat, paws and between letters and papers, took one that unfolded, showing a photographic portrait, regular card size. "Who is this Madame? - Said Pitusa who promptly picked it up for consideration -.
As beautiful, it is ... - I wanted - continued Frasquito breath taking each syllable - Obdulia show their perfect likeness ... - Well, this picture is not the girl - staring Benina said -.
Something you find in the face cut, but is not it. - Tell you if it looks or not.
The one or the other, is like that. - But who is? - The Empress Eugenie ...
Forced to buy it, show the similarity Obdulia ... - D.
portrait Sure did not give the poor gentleman, and carefully keeping the cardboard, buttoned his coat and tried to stand up, operation could not perform complicated by the extraordinary weakness of his legs, no thicker than drumsticks.
With the readiness to use used in cases like this, Benin went to take a car, for which previously had to evacuate another measure of the utmost importance.
But as was so executive, soon dispatched, with ten dollars in his pocket, he returned to Big Midi cab car taken by the hour, and the door the house stumbled upon Petra drunkenness and his companion Fourth and kilo, which the tavern shouting out. - "Yeah, we know that they said took him to tinkle ...-- -.
Well behaved women of course, they consider a man ...
themselves, do not buy the pan ... - The pot of seven bujeros ...
If not, why are so many omen? - Shut the very big mouths.
Heart and soul. " Of entertainment served to all home and outside.
It was a noisy function immediately down to Frasquito are singing songs in funeral, and saying a thousand jokes applied him and the Benin, insensitive to the outpourings of the vile villain, got into his car, leading the Andalusian gentleman like a bundle of clothes, and ordered the driver to bite Imperial Street, snuff taking care of the horse well.
It was not, as is easy to suppose, loose Dona Francisca surprise to see that you got in the house apparently dying body, transported between Benin and a porter.
Poor Lady had spent the afternoon and evening in mortal anxiety, and saw a strange thing, believed to have turned the dream or direction.
But the naughty maid hastened to reassure saying that this was no corpse, and its shabby could be inferred, but sick grave, D.
himself Frasquito Ponte Delgado, born in Algeciras, who had found on the street, and without going into further explanation of the unprecedented event, came to comfort the Doña Paca troubled spirit with the betrothal took news that its tough new bag odd, it adds up to attend to more urgent commitment, and breathing for a few days. - "Oh, you take my weight off of my soul - said Mrs.
The God bless you.
We're in a position to a charity, picking up this unfortunate ...
The favor and obligation accompanying health. - We must take things as they have ...
She would sleep on a mattress on the mat, and it would, and would if it were possible to boot the wretched old nails death. "But my soul Nina, have you thought through the load that we have caught up with ...?
Do you think that we are ourselves to get us a protective one? ...
But just tell me: Was D.
Romualdo blessed who ...? - Yes, ma'am, "replied the old ...-- Rumaldo, that stunning was not prepared to lie. - Blessed, blessed a thousand times sir! - She ...
Romualdo? - Hunter? - As you said do not know what a rabbit. - He does not hunt, but he was given ...
I do not know ...
partridge, rabbit, field ...
Then this afternoon ... - I, I said, 'Benin, to see how I put this rabbit morning that brought me ...'. - Asked if there were to be in gazpacho or rice, were disputed, and as I said nothing and I burst into tears, 'Benin, what do you have?
In short, rabbit's foot took the trouble to tell him that I saw ...».
Doña Paca convinced no longer thought only Frasquito install, which did not seem realized what was happening.
At last when he had gone to bed, recognized the widow of Juarez and showing their gratitude with handshakes and warm sigh, said: "This child, this mother ...
You are the spitting image of Montijo. - What does this man? - Gives because all we seem a. ..
the emperors of France ...
Finally, quit. - Am I in the palace in the Plaza del Angel? - Ponte said considering the miserable alcove with missing eyes. - Yes, sir ...
Arrópese now;'re very still to take the dream.
and live. " They left him alone, and began again Benina the street, eager to cover the opening to creditors rude, that impertinent and shameless pressure overwhelmed the two women.
God great pleasure of bringing them to the harsh hills that they had made more provisions, was to the streets of Rue, and with her basket full of good food and the heart of hope, thinking freedom from the shame of begging, at least for a couple of days, returned home.
Methodical promptly went to work in the kitchen, accompanied by his mistress, who was also smiling and joyful. "You know what happened to me - told Benina - at the time you've been away?
Well I was dormidita on the couch, and dreamed that two men came home grave clothes black.
Morquecho and D.
Francisco José María Porcell, my countrymen, who came to involved the death of D.
Pedro Jose Garcia of the Antrines, carnal uncle of my husband. - Poor lord is dead! - Nina cried with all my heart. - And that D.
Peter Joseph, who is one of the first rich men of the Highlands ... - But tell me, is what I dreamed account or is it? - Wait, woman.
These two gentlemen came, D.
Francisco and D.
José María, a physician, the another town clerk ...
they came to tell me that the Antrines Garcia, uncle flesh of my Antonio, I was appointed probate ... - Ya ... - And ...
the thing is clear ...
It left half of his assets to my children Obdulia and Antonito, and the other half to Frasquito Ponte.
by the priest D.
As these two gentlemen who were to visit, died thirty years ago, when I was the girlfriend of Antonio ...
and García de los Antrines was very old then.
I have not heard from him ...
Yes, all has been the work of a dream, but so vividly that even I find that I am looking ...
Te I tell it to laugh ...
I make the dream case because it could happen, a comparison, that those who come here go over there and bring us the remedy for our ills.
Below ground there is another world, and the point is to know how and when we can talk to the living Soterraña.
They have to know how badly we here, and we dream we see how well you go over there ...
XXIII Everything was fine the next morning: Don Frasquito improving hour by hour, and the entendederas middle state clearly, Doña Paca happy, well-stocked home vittles, that the next day and insured, so the poor could Benina rest of his pitiful bid in San Sebastian.
But to be so necessary to sustain the comedy of their care at the home of church, went as usual, the basket on his arm, ready to keep the morning and do something useful.
Upon leaving his mistress said: "I think we'll have to make a gift our D.
It should show that we are grateful and well educated.
We pawn for three months.
You will always be the same.
For like both look good, is now so poor.
One and one evoked memories of land they were born Andalusian, raising families, people and events; you talk and talk, Doña Francisca walked out the registration of his dream, but was saved well to tell the citizen. "Tell me, Ponte: What has become of D.
Peter had died the year of the Revolution. "Go, go, and I thought he was still alive.
Do you know who inherited their property? - As his son Rafael, who has not wanted to marry.
And goes for old.
It could be that will remember us, your children from you and me, as it has closer relatives. - Ay!
do not doubt you, will remember ...-- Doña Paca said with great animation in his eyes and the word -.
