The last leaves were falling, sadly mixed red offal in the stiffness of bare branches.
The plain naked and was not severe and not a shred of dry stubble to remember the summer or fall and did not show a single new grass do expect the return of the fertile seasons.
In the distance, many couples could be distinguished of edible red hair, dragging the plows, sunk into the blackened earth, moving uniform slowly.
Everywhere sounded the voice of the young men by encouraging labor yoke especially local and shouting, wailing, was prolonged indefinitely in absolute calm gray that day.
Occasionally, through the atmosphere and light rain fell hot like a light gauze curtain.
The sea began to roar at the close of the scarps.
The marshes were filled with water, high tide was partly submerged Lighthouse Garden, beating calmly base of the tower and sat on an island.
Magdalena walked nimbly wet roads.
Each step outlined in the soft earth the imprint of his shoe narrow, with high heels.
I watched that so light and so trace fragile, still comparing and distinguishing it from that we were leaving, calculating how much was possible that lasted.
Those steps would have liked to remain embedded, as witness to his presence, the whole indefinite would happen without it, then thought the first pass after the wipe, a little rain would destroy, and I stopped to look once more into the intricacies of this unique trail trail be left by the most loved, in the same land where I was born.
When they approached us Villanueva pointed in the distance the road, leaving whitish Village extends in a straight line to horizon. - That is the road Ormesson.
Magdalena then leaned on my arm in an attitude of complete abandon and said this one sentence: - My friend, you are an ingrate!
In mid-November, on a cold morning a white frost, leave my house Trembles.
The carriages remained on the road, crossed Villanueva as I did again.
Alternatively my eyes roamed the countryside disappearing behind us and the beautiful Magdalena's face sitting across from me.
XII Happy days were completed, finished that season short pastoral, I fell into deep concerns.
Just installed in the small hotel should serve as a halt Paris, Magdalena and Mr Nièvre began receiving and movement of the world did intrusion in our lives. - I will stay at home once a week to outsiders - Magdalena said, - for you'll forever.
Next week I give a dance, will you? - A dance? ...
There was only a small number of guests surrounding Magdalena near the fireplace in the first room.
When he heard my name announced, by an impulse of familiarity that did not have to repress, he turned toward me away a bit of around her and showed me, from head to toe, and unexpected image of all the attractions.
It was the first time I saw so, beautiful dress and indiscreet dancing.
I noticed that changing color and instead of answering his calm gaze my eyes fell awkwardly on a loop of diamonds gleamed high in the low-cut body.
One moment we were facing to face, she cut, I turbadísimo.
Surely no one suspected the rapid exchange of views we warned the two that had been wounded delicate modesty.
She blushed slightly, A slight shiver agitated her shoulders as if suddenly felt cold and broke off in the middle of a sentence negligible, approached the chair once occupied and as naturalness of the world took a lace shawl and pulled it.
That attitude could mean many things, but I wanted to see it as just a naive act of condescension and goodness which even showed me the most adorable and puzzled me for the rest of the evening.
She kept some shrinkage within several minutes.
Two or three times for no reason at me surprised, as if still under the control of a persistent feeling, then returned his courtesy obligations Gradually aplomb.
The movement of the dance performed on her and on me in the opposite direction she regained her freedom and was happy, I was sorry so much the more gladly saw and my anxiety grew as he learned in her outdoor attractions bartered an almost angelic creature in a perfect woman of good taste.
It was wonderfully beautiful and the idea that others know as well as I was soon oppress bitterly heart.
Until then my feelings about Magdalena had escaped feeling the bite of poisonous. "A torment," he said.
Thought I had exhausted all sort of fainting.
Obviously my love was not complete: one was missing tributes of love, not the more dangerous, but the ugliest.
Never admits being jealous, but those feelings were that I could be confusing.
It is good to make profitable any humiliation, and it enlightened me about many truths: I had noticed, had she been able to forget, that this exalted love, thwarted, seeds of misfortune, slightly carnal, but very near infested with pride, rose much above the ordinary level of passion that was no worse or better and the only aspect that made him different from those was due to being less likely that many others.
Some facilities habríanle brought down from its pedestal unfailingly ambitious, and like many things in this world whose only superiority stems from faulty logic or fullness, who knows what would come to be if it had been less absurd or more happy! - Would not you dance? - Magdalena asked a little later in their path without having I tried. - No, not dance - I replied. - Not even me? "- Said with astonishment. - Not with you or anyone else. - Do as you like - ended with some dryness.
No more I talked all night and shrank out of sight as much as possible.
Oliver was already past midnight.
I talked to Julia who had danced in bad win and you did not dance again, when he entered the room quiet, with much ease, smiling with that look in his eyes that was assembled like a sword hanging, every time was with new faces, especially women.
He went to Magdalena, shook hand and I heard he apologized for having arrived so late.
Then walked around the room, stopped to greet two or three women who were known, and finally sat down familiarly next to Julia. - Magdalena is fine.
And you are also very good, my little Julia - told his cousin about without having paid attention in his headdress .-- Only - added in the same tone of abandonment - have you two loops of pink that make you a little brown.
Julia did not budge.
Then set the glaze slowly Oliverio dark blue of her eyes without flame, and then he had looked for a few seconds of a able way to uproot the firm expressed its cousin, he said, standing: - Will you join me along with my sister?
I did what she wanted and I hurried to meet Oliver. - You've offended! - I said. - Maybe.
I had the courage, was worth?, To stay until the dance ended.
I needed to return to see Magdalena alone, to possess more closely then that would leave many people which had spread, so to speak.
Oliver had asked that waiting for me asking see that would repair the lack of having come so late.
Good or bad, this, about which could not harbor suspicions of cheating, seemed to settle.
We were face to face in one of those gusts of secrecy that made our friendship always clairvoyant, the thing more unequal and more rare.
After our trip to Trembles, and especially since our return Paris, had taken the temperament of me proceed without protection whatever it wanted their views on my conduct.
It was now three or four in the morning.
We and forgotten in a small lounge where some players are retarded still stubborn.
When we finally realizing that not perceived as a sound, and there were no musicians no dancers, no.
Magdalena, sitting at the bottom of a large empty room talking animatedly Julia, curled like a cat in an armchair.
Gave an exclamation of surprise to see us appear in this desert at that hour, after endless night so bad that employed.
She was alone with Julia and I supported it before Oliver's arm.
The average red light projected above it, formed a fog composed of fine dust and fumes smelling of the party.
Above furniture on the rug, remains of flowers, bouquets trampled, fans forgotten dance cards with notes.
The last carriage rolled on patio slabs hotel and to my ears came the sound of the handle to be folded and the pounding of the doors closing.
I do not know how fast to retreat to another time when we met the four in such a meeting - but in a different situation, each under the influence of a simple heart, vanished forever - made me look around me and summarize in one sense everything I said.
I let go of me is enough to consider, as a spectator in a theater, that picture four-person singular closely grouped after a dance, examining each other, silent, looking closer in the same way in another time and finding an obstacle once seen as trying and failing to do so.
I was well aware of the dark drama that unfolded between us.
The Mr input Nièvre was colder and the sight of that seemed to cause intimate cuatuor very opposite effect.
With his tie a little high, his impeccable dress, with a special air of a man in evening dress just give a party and feel homeowner, it seemed little friendly and simple hunter who had been my guest Trembles, it seemed also that Magdalena, with the dazzling brooch bearing on chest hair splashed with diamonds, did not resemble the modest and intrepid walker, a month before receiving the rain followed us and walking with his feet in the sea. "It was a simple difference of trichomes or was that more of a real change of souls?
I thought I noticed a chill in it had not previously noticed and some firmness in its position proud husband again I showed that Magdalene was his wife, and I was not anyone there.
Whether or not suspicious, error into illness, there was a moment that this latter view seemed so clear that I gave way to the smallest doubt.
The farewell was brief.
With eyes closed recapitulated what had happened during that night and not knowing what was in antojábaseme everything seeds of many storms, then I thought Mr.
Several days a week at least, Magdalena passed without giving signs of life.
Took advantage of the time does not succeed it was safe to go home to leave a card.
Once this formula of civility, I thought we were in peace Mr.
was no reason, but the cruel despair over me gave me strength at this time to avoid them.
Starting from that day, the movement of Paris surrounded us and were swept away by that whirlwind which stunned at risk of stronger and more heads are likely shipwreck the strongest hearts.
Little did I know almost nothing about the world after fleeing of him for a year I was suddenly in the room of Mrs.
Considered useless to repeat that I was not made for that kind of life could only answer me: 'Go away'; but perhaps this advice will work and it would cost I would not have followed.
Had In order to appear in almost every room that she frequented.
Intended to be as accurate in fulfilling the duties of society entirely artificial, as satisfied a man well-born and covered under their sponsorship.
She often expressed a simple I wish no other foundation than welcome to avail me and my imagination, ready to transform However, scope of mandate assigned to it.
Wounded everywhere, unhappy restless, the continued constantly and when that was possible I missed her desolate, cursed those who I disputed his presence and I despaired.
Sometimes I sincerely rebelled against customs in which I dispelled fruitless not contributing much to my happiness and I removed one other reason.
Cordially hated people of which I served, however, to reach when prudence or other reasons I moved away from home.
Thought, not without reason, that his enemies were so as mine.
Eternal secret that would be brought and taken in such media, because like an outdoor fire was certainly unwise to lay off sparks that give him away; if not already known, at least it was easy to come to be known.
Not a hundred times no.
I dreaded even the thought that there was a conspiracy against my happiness, the idea that this reduced and famished that had been the subject of envy for whoever it was.
A Magdalena only told part of the truth.
Do not hide anything about my aversion to society, firing only the most personal reason of certain grievances.
When it came judge the world more generally, other than the perennial idea that it should consider as a thief of my fortune, lavished invectives with fierce joy.
The hostile painted everything that I was loved, indifferent to all that is good and full of contempt for most respectable, both in terms of opinions as to the feelings.
Repeatedly argued facts, by which every man of good sense should be hurt; censured lightness of the social precepts and more still of passions condemned ease of conscience, whatever the causes, ambition, glory or vanity.
Doeth notice the way free as usually understood, not the concept of duty, but all duties, abuse of words, the confusion of all the measures, which leaves room for perversion simple ideas to get anyone to understand about what is good, true, bad, worse, proving that there is no appreciable difference between glory and prestige - in the sense of the word - not exact delimitation of the evil actions and facts simply thoughtless.
