The tranquility of the old firm contagious to feel, he was able to defend all bread for their children.
The old man, with so much solemnity as if it were a relic, took from behind the door gem house: a piston gun that looked like a powerhouse, whose stock touched mothlike devotedly.
The would charge him, he would understand better that friend.
Quite a handful.
A rope of straw pulled the plugs.
Now serving coaching inn, five or six Zorreras bulk pellets, shrapnel fine, and finally a taco well beaten.
If the gun does not burst with indigestion that death would be mercy of God.
That night his wife said he felt that he expected turn to water, and the whole family believed him going to bed early.
When he left, leaving it closed the cabin, he saw the starlight, under the fig tree the strong old man engaged in putting the piston to a friend.
While pointing to the mouth of oven and keep calm.
When you bow down looking for the cat inside ...
Sense, teacher's advice, he lay down between two beds of geraniums in the shade of the hut.
The heavy gun rested on the fence rods pointing straight at the mouth of the oven.
To him liked those things, but I had grandchildren, and also arranges these matters better one.
He walked away the old cautiously, like a man accustomed to haunt the garden, waiting for a enemy in each lane.
What old would say if you were there?
His feet touched the shack, and thinking that after that Pepeta mud wall and the little ones slept, no other defense than their arms, and the they wanted to rob the poor man was fierce again.
Trilling space, as if far, far away, speaking from on high the voice of a cantor.
Could hear the screeching of a car rolling down a distant road.
Barking dogs, howling fever transmitting their poultry in pens, and rac-rac of frogs in the nearby canal interrupted by the splashes of frogs and rats leaping from the edge of the reeds.
Sense to have the hours they were playing in the Miguelete.
They stood: they were men who were advancing curved, almost knees. - You are there - he murmured, and his jaw trembled.
The two men volvíanse everywhere, as if fearing a surprise.
They went to the bluff, by registering: then drew near the door of the hut, sticking the ear to the keyhole, and in these maneuvers twice went close to sense, without that he could know them.
Iban wrapped in blankets, by low which poked shotguns.
This increased the value of sense.
Are the same who killed Gafarró.
And went into the oven.
One of them leaned forward, putting his hands in the mouth and placing pointed to the gun.
But what about the one that was free?
Poor sense to start to feel the pangs of fear felt in the forehead with a cold sweat.
Killing one, was disarmed before the other.
If you let them go, finding nothing, take revenge burning his hut.
But that was stalking tired of the awkwardness of his companion and went to help the looking for.
The two formed a dark mass obstructing the mouth of the oven.
The thunder shook the entire garden, raising a storm of screams and barks.
Sento saw an array of sparks, burns to the face felt, the shotgun was and shook hands to be convinced that they were whole.
Surely, the friend had burst.
He saw nothing in the oven would have fled, and when he would also escape, the door opened of the cabin and went Pepeta in petticoats, with a candle.
Had aroused the blunderbuss and driven out by fear, fear for her husband who was away from home.
The red light of the lamp, with its haggard movements, reached the mouth of the oven.
There were two men on the ground, one over another, crossed, confused, forming a single body, as if an invisible nail unite them around the waist, soldiers with blood.
He had not missed the mark.
The coup of the old gun had been twofold.
And when we feel and Pepeta, with frightened curiosity, lit the bodies to see their sides, fell with exclamations of amazement.
The garden was without authority, but quiet.
At sea At two o'clock a knock at the door of the hut. - Antonio!
And Antonio jumped out of bed.
It was his friend, fishing partner, warned him to be, to sea.
He had slept little that night.
At eleven o'clock still chatting with Rufina, his poor wife, who churned restlessly in bed talking business.
The day least two or three hundred were killed arrobas, the money flowed like a God bless you and those like Antonio, kept good conduct and made their nest egg, emancipated themselves from the condition of simple sailors, buying a boat for fishing own.
A veritable fleet was occupied every night, not just space to move, but with increasing lack boats had been fishing.
The networks will often drew algae or fish, trash fish from which melts in the pan.
The tuna this year had taken another path, and no one could lift one on his boat.
Rufina was appalled by this situation.
Antonio, as he dressed, woke up her son, a boy of nine years with him in fishing and did the work of a man. - See if you have more luck today - the woman murmured from the bed -.
In the kitchen you will find the cot of the provisions ...
Just yesterday saw some a tuna that is loose, an old man who weighs an estimated more than thirty arrobas.
At least sixty dollars.
And the fisherman just fixed thinking about that dead fish, a lonely, separated from his herd, returned by force of habit to the same waters last year.
Anton was already standing and ready to go with the severity and satisfaction is gained bread on the age at which others play, to shoulder the provisions carrycot and a hand the tank of the Rovelo, the favorite fish for tuna, the best bait to attract them.
Father and son left the cabin and followed the beach to the fishing pier.
The friend was waiting in the boat preparing to sail.
The fleet shifted in the darkness, waving his fence poles.
They ran over it the black silhouettes of the crew, broke the silence the sound of sticks falling on deck, the creaking of the pulleys and ropes, and candles in the dark desplegábanse like huge sheets.
The people near the water extended to its straight streets, bordered with white houses where were housed for a while holidaymakers, families from all those inside looking the sea.
Near the pier, an old house showing its windows and fired furnaces, tracing trails of light on the restless waters.
It was the Casino.
The gossip and Antonyms pulled the strings, and slowly traced the lateen sail, shivering to be bent by the wind.
The first boat crept softly on the calm surface of the bay, then rippled the water and began to nod, were pointed out, in the open sea.
In front, the dark infinity, in which the stars twinkled, and everywhere on black sea, boats and more boats as they went sliding on sharp ghosts waves.
The friend looked at the skyline. - Antonio, change the wind. - I noticed. - We'll have rough seas. - I know, but in!
Let's get away from all these, which sweep the sea.
And the boat, instead of going after the other, which followed the coast, continued to bow to sea.
The sun, which cut huge red wafer, on the sea drew a triangle fire and boiling water as if it reflected a fire.
Antonio grasped the helm, the mate stood by the mast and the little boy in the head scanning the sea.
The stern and gunwales of threads hanging hair dragged their baits in water.
From time to time and pull up a fish, which turned and shone like tin animated.
But they were tiny pieces ...
And so the hours passed, the boat always on, as soon as lying down on the waves jumping up to show their red bellies.
It was hot, and Anton ran down the hatch to drink the water barrel stuck in the narrow cove.
At ten had lost sight of land, only saw the stern of the far from other boats sails as white fish fins. - But Antonio! - Said the friend -.
Antonio turned and started running the boat drifts, but to no land. - Today - said happily - take a bite.
And will be presented fishing whenever she wants.
For each a great crust and a raw onion, pounded his fists on the side.
They rolled over the stern onions and bread, and the two men asomáronse to the side.
Yes, it was a tuna, but huge, potbellied, powerful, almost dragging his black flower water Velvet back, perhaps the lone spoke both fishermen.
Powerful fleet, but with a slight contraction of his strong tail, moved from side to side of the boat and soon out of sight and reappeared instantly.
Antonio flushed with emotion, and hastily threw Sea rig with a large hook as a finger.
The waters are muddied and the boat was moved, as if someone with colossal force Pulling stopping it in its place and trying to make it capsize.
The deck was swaying as if they flee from under the feet of the crew, and the mast creaked pulse of the fans candle.
But suddenly the barrier gave way and the boat, leaping, he resumed his march.
They pulled him and surfaced the hook, but broken, split in half, despite its size.
The friend shook his head sadly. - Antonio, the animal can more than us.
The rig hanging from the stern almost straight.
The boat shuddered again, this time a terribly.
The tuna was well grasped and pulled the hook solid, stopping the boat, making dancing wildly on the waves.
The water seemed to boil, rose to the surface foam and bubbles in muddy swirl, which if depth development of a gigantic struggle, and suddenly the boat, and seized by hidden hands, lay down, filling the water to half cover.
Antonio, releasing the helm, was almost in the waves; but heard a crack and the boat regained its normal position.
The water is stained with blood and the animal sank a red swirl.
Antonio breathed at last.
Good had escaped: all lasted a few seconds, but a little more, and had gone to the bottom.
But good shots you've stirred.
She will not take to stay afloat. - And the boy?
This is the father asked anxiously, anxiously, as if afraid the answer.
Antonio slid down the hatch, expecting to find in the Creek.
He fumbled in the small, dark space, without finding more than the barrel of water and gear parts.
Reckless by a blow, he would have gone to the bottom like a bullet.
But mate, even thought all this, said nothing.
Far to the site where the boat had been close to capsizing, a black object floating on the water. - There he is!
And the father jumped into the water, swimming vigorously, while the companion slackened sail.
He swam and swam, but its forces left him convinced that the object was a rowing a wreck of his boat.
When the waves lifted up, pulled the body out to see farther.
Over the sea were just him, the boat approached and a black curve that had just emerged and horribly contracted on a large bloodstain.
He swam more than an hour, believing that each friction body of his son would arise under his legs, imagining that the shadows of the waves were the child's body floating between two stools.
Are things in life.
The dead boy that killed all our relatives, where we die.
All a matter of sooner or later ...
But now, what we are, to think that we are poor.
And preparing two nooses tuna seized the body and took him to tow the boat with blood staining the foam of the wake.
The wind favored them, but the boat was flooded, was sailing badly, and the two men, sailors Above all, forget the disaster, and the scoops in hand, worshiped the inside the creek, throwing shovels of water into the sea.
That tough task brutalized Antonio, prevented him from thinking, but tears were rolling their eyes and more tears, which, mixing with water from the creek, fell in the sea over the grave of the child.
The boat was sailing with increasing speed, feeling emptied their bowels.
The small port was in sight, with its masses of white houses by the golden afternoon sun.
The sight of land awoke in pain and Antonio numb horror. - What will my wife?
And all men trembling as energetic and daring, which at home are slaves of the family.
Glided over the sea like a caress cheerful rhythm of waltz.
The land breeze greeted the boat with live and lively melodies.
It was the music played on the promenade, opposite the Casino.
Below the flattened palm parade, like beads on a string of colors, the umbrellas of silk, straw hats, clear and colorful costumes of all people summer.
The children, dressed in white and pink, leaping and running after their toys, or were gay Outcry as color wheels turning.
In the spring thronged the office: his eyes, accustomed to the vastness of the sea, had recognized what was towing the boat.
But Anthony only looked at the end of the pier, a tall, bald and blackened, standing on a rock, whose skirts swirled the wind.
Everyone wanted to see up close the huge animal.
Fishermen, from their boats, threw envious glances, the rascals, nude-colored brick echábanse water to touch the huge tail.
Rufina was opened through the crowd, reaching her husband, who with his head down and stupid expression I heard the congratulations of friends. - And the boy?
The poor man still more his head down.
The sunk between his shoulders, as if to make disappear, refusing to hear, not see anything. - But Where is Anton?
We are very unfortunate.
The boy is dead, is where his grandfather, where I will be any day.
Eat sea and the sea has to swallow ...
But his wife did not hear him.
Was on the ground, shaken by a nervous breakdown, and rolled kicking, showing her thin and roasted animal nakedness of work, while pulling by the hair, scratching his face. - My son! ...
The neighboring district of fishermen flocked to it.
They knew what it meant: nearly all had gone through the same perils.
They lifted her up, holding it with his powerful arms, and marched towards his house.
Some fishermen took a glass of wine to Antonio, who never ceased to mourn.
Meanwhile, compadre, dominated by the brutal selfishness of life, with buyers haggled fiercely fish that wanted to purchase a beautiful piece.
The waters, waving gently, taking gold reflections.
And under the palm trees were still parading the colorful costumes, happy, smiling faces, a world that had not felt the misfortune to spend with him, who had launched a look at the drama of poverty, and the elegant waltz, rhythmic and voluptuous, anthem cheerful madness, harmonious glided over the water, stroking his breath the eternal beauty the sea.
The cove was packed, and on deck amontonábanse sacks, forming a mountain around the mainmast.
To move from stem to stern, the crew were on the edges, holding with dangerous balance.
The night was good summer night with stars in bulk and a cool breeze, somewhat irregular, that as soon swelled the great lateen sail up the mast to moan as ceased to blow, falling faint the vast canvas with loud flapping.
The crew, five men and a boy, had dinner after the exit maneuver, and once slicing the steaming cauldron, which sank the fishing fraternity from crust to the pattern to the boy disappeared down the hatch all off duty, to stand on the hard mattress, their bellies swollen with wine and watermelon juice.
It was at the helm Uncle Sparks, a toothless shark that growls eagerly welcomed the latest indications of the pattern, and with him his protege Juanillo, a rookie who did San Rafael in his first trip, and I was very grateful to the old man through whom he entered in the crew, killing your hunger, it was not little.
The wretched lute antojábasele the boy a ship Admiral, a happy ship, sailing sea ??of ??plenty.
Dinner that night was the first dinner he had made serious in your life.
Had reached nineteen years, hungry and almost naked as a savage, sleeping the crooked hut where her grandmother wailed and prayed, still by rheumatism: day helped to launch the boats unloading fish baskets, or pest was in boats chasing tuna and sardines, to take home a handful of tiny fish.
