Or on the contrary, turned his attention a moral disappointment to distract from a more, fearful of a disappointment that would have been much more disastrous?
If you love this man was lying, did not sanction the close failed awareness that a link had contracted outside the law?
For the Christian who guilt had seemed, if not excused, at least tempered by the sincerity of love for the honesty of the agreement, the purity of the commitment "should not imply a condemnation sudden severe lack of these conditions?
Ferpierre saw that these ideas should be concerned about the deceased at that time, almost read between the lines.
And just as when listening to a musical phrase provides for the development and cadence of the melody, its logical predictions were confirmed by the following paragraphs of the reports: "I had no value, but must have it.
Again and I was afraid to go down to my for an internal examination, this duty that I have always been easy, and nice.
Can I prevent the pride confess that I could fool me?
His thinking is so complex their experience has been so vast that he himself does not know his true nature and that no pulse pound passenger, there is no other than itself.
I expected to get put it back on the path of truth, but the work is harder and requires more time than I had expected.
However, I still hold out hope, confidence encouraged me before. "There are times when I doubt.
I doubt most of it, myself.
Our resistance must lay down the law to the exuberant energy and arrogant men.
But another idea overcame me: that for strong souls no written law in a book just to understand it.
The unknown that all tells me that for my fall the law of love: faithfulness.
Now I can not, I should not, I do not suspect that there mocked up to that law.
And yet, what I used to think these things, say them in high voice, write, if in doubt overwhelms me and torments me? "Slowly, but with perfect clarity, I have seen emerge, grow, and bounds.
Doubt becomes anxious at times in desperate certainty.
So I think I still remain a force to exercise extreme force: forgiveness.
I feel that no it cost me, and that's bad, because if it cost me, it would have more merit.
But he I can do whatever they want, provided they do not deny everything and always ... "Ah, that laugh ...!» "It was hoped that Zakunine had reached the only condition imposed by the hapless? ...
To rebuild with the help of these confessions the defendant's character, which saw Ferpierre adverse trial that man, made by Robert candle plant, was not the result of passion.
Behind their profession of faith humanitarian, his preaching of justice, equality, love, selfishness to withhold a skeptic, low appetite, wrong intentions, since he had been able to reduce such torment to a being who had surrendered at discretion.
If induce the illusion of a more tranquil pursuit of social reform had failed Had he answered it at least acts of kindness, these demonstrations of love?
Ferpierre returned with interest to reading the newspaper: "Today I said the same words that I copy, without changing anything on them: "" So you think that love is immortal?
You judge me unworthy of love: you think you have sacrificed; sacrifice hurts, and want to get your clearance: it will look for another love, not doubt: I will offer any ...
At first say that my fault and later recognize I am not guilty.
Within you, within me, the nerves, in the flesh, blood of us all, there is a ferment that nothing and nobody can calm: when you're hungry, you cebarás, once you've eaten, you will feel satiated.
Out of this truth there is no other.
Is must say it, repeat it, to honor and recognize your laws, your commandments, your scruples, are lies and hypocrisy that we expose and confuse.
Your big names, Love Duty, the Right, have a meaning, but not the same as you think.
Our duty and our right is reduced to obtain and maintain the pleasure, which is why the origin to the life, as your pleasure is mine, we love, when it is not enough for each other, love ends.
Sound you utter another word: Honor.
My honor is to say what I think, in my actions to agree with my ideas.
Everyone is wicked full of worries, but most stupid unjust.
Science, which does not lie, has taken over the true, the only law that is in the secular accumulation of lies: the law of the struggle for existence. "Ocultadla, cast fire books that teach, if you still believe in your lies.
But once you recognize how you can stay serious, repeated listening to these chants lied?
If you leave me when I no longer love you, I appreciate, if you betray me when still love you, I'll kill you.
My right is equal to yours.
The anarchy that we want to establish already exists in the customs, but there is nothing more than anarchy in the sense that you the dais, ie, ignorance and the injury of the laws.
What is needed instead of what is an anarchy that conforms to natural laws, the uniform conscious vital instinct, beyond that there is nothing. " "I have omitted the least thing: these were his own words.
Beyond that, there is nothing ... " And Ferpierre, even though it had long been accustomed to the spectacle of pain, felt moved to think how bitter must have been the death of the believer.
For transcribed these words, each of which was an insult and offend frighten as blasphemy, to recognize that Zakunine was right, it was necessary the unhappy be ordered without an excuse, which was considered lost without hope.
Should be recognized, finally, that the illusion of a soul and redeem the desire to do it had been mere pretexts, which in its love, all love, that all life, we hear no more voice than the tiny drives.
But could, in fact long deny the beliefs of a lifetime?
In that sentence it was right to what extent denier irony intervened?
As she spoke of his love, he argued skeptical arguments, cynical and almost expected that he would be betrayed; this was enough for the unfortunate itself is flouted, but what he thought of the possibility of betrayal? "He recognized that, by a fatal logic, his first error was follow a second and a third, or conversely, rebelled against this logic?
If the act is a sin how can it be spoiled intended pleading? ... "I will not have to wait long, the work of destruction is already advanced, my pain bites breastfeed more viciously.
Beyond a statement that was transcribed read in a book: "When I live under the laws, I have the obligation to comply, but can you still make me when I'm out of them? "(Montesquieu.) This trial was due seem uniquely adaptable to your own situation.
However all contrary arguments, must see that suicide is an evil, and that the moral law ordered life endure patiently until the last day, but this order could be worth for those who had obeyed all the others, it had infringed and a much more serious should feel detached from this duty, and besides, when I thought about killing yourself, wanted to impose punishment. "Is it time?" He asked in another paragraph.
After a few blank pages, the judge found the thought struck him: "The joy does not have sufficient virtue to forget the pain, as a new pain .-- The night August 12. " Between the two sheets had some dried flowers, stiff and discolored, by way of signal.
Those flowers and the date set under those words, they think that Ferpierre it was a more noteworthy event, which the Countess attached particular importance.
Continued reading and found a paragraph in the longer time it stopped.
The deceased did not express his own thought: once copied something from a book: "Nothing contributes so much to make life unpleasant, a second love.
The nature of eternity, of infinity that brings love and lifts it above all things, has vanished ya: love seems ephemeral as everything starts again. "(Goethe.) Ferpierre remembered very well this trial by the German poet: could the deceased have cited without applying it to itself?
The poet's statement meant that the second love is inevitably doomed, because thrilled by the depth of the new affection is not possible for the heart that has seen the former's death.
The savages of America immortal believed the first European came to conquer the new world, and therefore the omnipotent judged until seeing Spanish succumb first recognized the deception and ceased to venerate ...
But the certainty expressed by Goethe and later affirmed by the Countess d'Arda what could asserted against the persuasions of the life instinct?
How many love again prevents knowledge the new love to end up as the first?
The certainty of death that you have is it perhaps a reason for suicide?
The condition in which the Countess was the lack of a written obligation that the linking inextricably to the Prince, the example you gave her unworthy lover, was natural, humanely are sought in the new love comfort and enjoyment which revocation, common to all human affairs, could not and should stop.
What happened was that while he was open to men, had been linked to his own conscience, without the aid of the rite, but with complete sincerity.
True, had been outside the laws, but in order to come back to them who had abandoned and unknown, and whether they had received this an example of evil, had been due to give the good.
Feeding this new love was not, therefore possible, without compromising the attenuation, in the ambiguity of their status, substraían to the conviction and allowed at least hope that it might avoid rigor. "This idea convinced me: that souls do not need strong that law is written in a book just to understand it. "Could have forgotten their own words, the feeling that they had been given?
If that feeling was sincere and healthy; if the soul of this woman was so high and strong as it appeared in the statements of witnesses and in the pages of the book, not only was possible had been given death but that the incident should have been almost expected.
Before I found candle plant, his heart was oppressed, his life full of bitterness, all their efforts had failed, but, however, could still be respected.
In the bitter had been disappointed, yes, censorship and reported foul, claiming that it had joined with Prince Alexis, not to fulfill a noble purpose, animated by a pure sense, but simply to satisfy his own lust, and even had said that his own failure was attenuated.
A second fall not only had no excuse, but also skeptical view would be confirmed or that it had formed her first lover: "Your sacrifice hurts, want to obtain compensation and seek it in another love: not doubt, someone will offer you ... "These words of Zakunine who had humiliated and offended when there were more than a skeptical forecast, would have been confirmed by the fact, expressed reality, if she had yielded to the love of candle plant, then the skeptic, denier, the blasphemer had been right, faith that the believer is held against him had been reduced as he wanted to reduce it to a lie, a hypocrisy.
Ferpierre repeated to himself that suicide under these conditions was not only possible, but almost necessary.
And for other reasons had recognized its credibility in a nature melancholy and contemplative as this, in a soul accustomed to regularly look inside itself, to explore without fear, but rather a kind of complacency problems of life
