A silver chueta withheld a long time.
But the heir Febrer, the offspring of wealthy merchants and heroic sailors, had to withdraw thinking about the money he kept in his belt.
Was certainly not enough for such a purchase.
Then in another store Pepet purchased a knife, the bigger and heavier than found, an absurd weapon, capable of making him forget that of his glorious grandfather.
At noon, Febrer, bored aimless walks by the Navy and the steep streets of the former Royal Force, entered a small inn, the only one of the city, located along port.
He found the guests as usual.
In the lobby, a few young men dressed of peasants, with headquarters cap: soldiers of the garrison that served as assistants.
In the dining room, junior officers of a battalion, young lieutenants who smoked with a bored and looked through the windows, as prisoners of the sea, the vast blue expanse.
While eating lamentábanse of bad luck of his youth, useless and lost in this rock.
They spoke of Mallorca as a place of delights, remember the provinces mainland, from which many of them were children, as havens for those who longed to return.
It was a yearning, a desire that shook their voices and put in their eyes gleams of insanity.
Weighed on them, as a string of insufferable prison, under caste Ibizan exclusivism island, suspicious to outsiders.
There was no joking with love, not time lost in wooing, or hostile indifference, or honest engagement to marry soon.
Words and smiles directly led to the marriage was only possible treatment with youth to discuss the formation of a new family.
His whole dream was to get a license to live several days in Mallorca or on the Peninsula, off the island virtuous and shy, which only supported the stranger as husband embark in search of other lands, where it was easy to expand exacerbated their desires, like those of the college and the inmate.
Febrer felt the same tedium of those soldiers, printing of being locked in a prison deprivation that was to pit the sea.
Now it seemed the island capital of a population of monotony irresistible, with their ladies locked in shy and monastic isolation.
I thought in the field as a place of freedom, with their wives simple soul and natural affections, limited only by a defensive instinct equal to primitive female.
That afternoon he left the city.
Nothing remained to him of the optimism of a few hours earlier.
Marina streets were foul, a foul odor escaped from the houses in swarms of flies buzzed stream, jumping in the puddles at the sound of the footsteps of a passerby.
The memory of the hills next to the tower, fragrant smell of wild herbs and salty sea, seemed to smile in his memory with idyllic sweetness.
The car took him to a farmhouse near San Jose, and departing from it set off the mountain, passing through pine bowed by heavy storms .
