Now, about your aunts ...
For now, let me alone, leave me alone!
And do not ever think of such gossip.
Go to the hacienda, you'll see.
I always I asked God to rid of it ...
And this I say pushing me out, and opening the door. - Go, it's too late ....
I have to get up early ....
I have to work in the little shop.
I said goodbye to the good old man, and took up the street to the cemetery of San Antonio.
I went the steps, and leaning on the gate I started to contemplate the city.
The night was dark; black clouds hid the horizon.
As soon as they discovered the peaks of the Sierra, drawing on a clear sky, which sparkled with pale gleams a few stars.
My thoughts flew in search of my Angelina.
XLIV I got up very early, and I spent the first hours in the garden.
In roses, too beautiful with its new foliage, buds not yet bloomed, but in the box "Do not forget me" Angelina seed, opened the first flowers.
Had won the love of the poor orphan.
My plants, languid and sad, do not flourish in many months, until late April or early May.
The soon be my girl adorned with all the beauties of spring.
I was suddenly seized with deep sadness.
I watched the cerulean flowers, Fresh, lush, dotted with dew, and I thought the ephemeral nature of man's hopes.
Not that I loved her with all my heart, with all the energy of my soul.
and I loved Matilda, and although he had not died in my memory and still alive in me the memory of sweet, it was not, alas!
for the poor lad, who had sworn eternal love, the angel of charity that followed him everywhere, that lady of your spirit was light in all darkness, the sound source in solitude, iris advertising bonanza, through the cloud, the storm moves away, the storm has ceased.
No, Angelina lived for me, I lived for it, the misery and love had united our souls, soul mates, born one for another, created to form a single: "Two souls with one thought and the throbbing chord heart.
Sitting at the foot of one orange, silent witness of our love, Angelina I was thinking when knock at the door.
I sensed that someone brought me news of my beloved and I went hurriedly.
It was the groom's P.
Herrera. - ...-- Here you have told me, without getting off the horse - this box and the letters.
One for my aunts, one for me.
I dreamed I was in Villaverde, at home and around you.
You were reading and I was painting rose petals.
Suddenly closed the book, put on the table, and you came step by step to me, to rest at the back of the chair ....
So ... (Like that night remember?) I said quietly: "Angelina ....
I woke up crying and distressed, as if I no longer wanted, as if they were to see you again.
We went to the top of the hill, and there on a blanket, we stopped.
I went along a cornfield.
Grow some plants between rows giving flowers as daisies, and I I cut many, many, many that I no longer fit into the apron, then sat on a rock and, remembering a poem you read me, entertained me to ask if I wanted flowers.
Defoliation all, and all told me, with the last petal, you want me ... "Much !»... 'Much! " I have no moments of sadness, not anymore.
I am very happy and secure in your affection.
Forgive me; forgive me if I ever doubted your perseverance and your loyalty. "But all of this have not told you how I got your letter.
I could not go to the ranch Ocotes to find the waiter and I settled to wait in the corridor.
He received the package, opened it, took his card and gave me my own, without a word.
I rushed to read the letter from Dona Pepita.
And you'll see: a blade ...
In you not I know how very dark, some sadness and some disappointment that I like, that make me suffer, I do mourn.
It seems as if you have little love for life.
No, I'm sure.
Rodolfo mine: it must change so to think, that you stray from these ideas so rare and so black, and you love the life that love as I love her like a godsend.
Well I do, and you too, you too, because are good.
That's why I love you I love you so. "The last part of your little letter made me very happy to you.
So you want, so I dreamed, and must be provided with your Linilla. "I have here in the heart is one thing that saddens me, and I tell you, but I need time to writing.
Paul has to leave at three, are the 0:30, I have not seen if the table is list, and you know that my dad eats one o'clock, the clock sounds, and not just give it When you already have in the room, clapping and calling for the soup. "Paul will give you a box, it is a handkerchief embroidered with the monogram I the moments unemployed.
Dad says that is very nice, I liked it, and I think you look like you same. "Take good care of your aunts, mainly from Dona Carmelita, look how much he likes pampered.
just for you, your Linilla. " XLV Was writing until after midnight.
At that time I went outside and cut branches most beautiful "myosotis" to put them in my letter and they came at the hands of Angelina. "There are - I wrote - those flowers of heaven, so beloved of my Linilla.
They are the first that sprang up in the box that you sow.
Your plants have bloomed before my own, but that's not because you love me as much as I love you.
Mine do not give hope, but flourish, and made more beautiful than yours, which is proof that I love you all my life. "I had a great disappointment in recent days, a quarrel that has caused me great pain.
Well view the thing was not so, and perhaps very bitter I spent days without there being reason for it.
Do not get to ponder on this.
and nothing else! "I must tell you that three days ago I left the house of Don Juan.
The doctor has gotten me a job very well, in the hacienda of Santa Clara, which, as you know, is Mr.
I was in the house of that gentleman a very nice person, I received with great courtesy, as a friend, not as an employee, we arrange in a two by three, and on 15 I leave for the ranch.
I am sorry to part of my aunts, but my daughter, there is no choice, what to do!
I do not understand the field, but I will learn; hardest things I've learned.
It saddens me to think that I live far from you, and that I have not long to see you, for I will be going to San Sebastian and I offered to your dad.
Sorry, sorry, but as you will understand, I must not lose placement Don Crisanto the poor have sought me.
With what I earn in Santa Clara will be necessary in this house for Aunt Pepilla not have to work in their flowers, or with the small fry.
I will provide for all household expenses, and perhaps this destination will be for Your Rorra the beginning of a laborious life, yes, very laborious, but well paid.
And you I say things I do not understand the field, and I do not know about that one iota.
Learn all, though, I understand, my occupation is on the desktop.
No desire, I desire nothing else, and it encrypts all my happiness. "Why dost reproach me my sadness and melancholy?
Think I've been very unhappy, and suffer from Murray and aggravation.
You're right: life is friendly, lovable, despite that pain is inherent in human nature, haunts us everywhere and at all hours.
You're right: When a man loves and is loved life is nice.
So I am, so I have become in recent years, and although your love and affection my life happy, but you are to my soul faint light and joy at times it darkens my soul and I am happy to feed my pain, sinking voluntarily in sadness.
I do not consult it with flowers often be misleading and flattering, but my heart is all yours. "Imagine a man who had lived many years in the obscurity of a dungeon, and suddenly, when I had lost all hope of freedom, from exposing him.
Is not it true that sometimes sigh lovingly recalling his imprisonment, the narrow space that was for him home, country and world?
At times I do not think I can not believe you love me I love you, and I'm happy.
Forgive me, I will not think about it, and if I think those things do not I will say.
Is not that right? "The scarf is very pretty, the monogram is superb, very elegant, very simple, as drawn and embroidery for you.
Say hi to your dad, if you think appropriate to do so, so do not suspect our loves.
Did not approve, and is the reason I remember my disgust for you and for him.
Let me know that you grieve, Linilla, Linilla me, tell me you have secrets from me?
I can imagine what it is: a childish ....
Do not say now that I write as you wish.
The day you do not write me as you know it, I, for my part, I have to punish, and poor you! "Goodbye, my darling!
Rodolfo. " XLVI I rarely left home, and only to visit Don Roman.
I spent the morning in my room and afternoon in the garden, devoted to my favorite poets. - What book are you reading now? - Used to ask the "pomposísimo" when going to see .-- Lamartine? "Victor Hugo? "Novels of Dumas?
I answered affirmatively, and the good old man made a gesture, growled, and added mohino: - Ugh!
And if you're very sure your Latin, the classics Spanish ....
Well, stop the hand such daubs.
But I did not listen to the advice of Don Roman, and review the most eloquent pages of Chateaubriand, sweetest verses of Lamartine, and I memorized the best scenes of "Hernani" a collection of plays, translated by I know not whom.
I still remember some of the famous drama romantic, that of Dona Sol Carlos V: - "Be still, I ashamed ...!
Don Carlos, between the two all affair is madness ....
My father, his pure blood shed in the war for you, and I am listening to angry, I am, despite the furor so crazy for your wife, just for your lady, very much. " He disregarded the classics, and engulfed me in the deep vault of romantic literature.
Andrew bought a day in his shop of "legality", a third of old papers, including which I found brochures, books, brochures, supplies, and volumes of "The Cross, I hurried to collect.
Then I read much of "The Devil's Pistol ', I devoured the novels of Florencio del Castillo, and in two days I began by collecting the two volumes of "The Thirty Years War ' Fernando Orozco, the most deliberate of our novelists.
What caused me such a painful impression that book!
Filled me with sadness, and hurt me cruelly heart.
I went up the hill, and walked up to my site choice.
The cloudless sky and celajes like a cerulean glass dome.
Groves, fresh and greening, flaunted his new robe, and in the meadows and the hills floated a mysterious pink light.
Middle Valley have enjoyed the past glories of the day and there behind the church of San Juan, behind the mill, half hidden among banana and "Izotes" in the curve of Stony wide and open, the last rays sun traced a trail of silver, which assumed a splendid focus, whose powerful radiation hurt my eyes.
The city was wrapped in gauze and gold, and the East loomed tops of the mountains, the peak of Otates, and the crests of Mata Thick on a green background of soft opal.
West side of pretending the clouds burning mountains, an abyss of flame, which hid the sun.
In Villaverde, as in Pluviosilla, such notice sunsets are sure fire hot day, announces the 'south', the scorching wind that heats the atmosphere and calcined earth.
They came to me the voices of passers crossing the Alameda, or went along edging wagon road width of ash.
The pleasant evening breeze caressed my face with his perfumed kisses.
Still glowing in the Sierra the last rays of day, and as they climbed the valley thousand rumors of the sleepy nature, the voices of the river and birds singing, I started admire the magnificent picture before him.
Shone on the river the last burst of light air the green light turned on a vague reflection of violet, ennegrecióse the valley, and it was evening. - "So - I thought, - so will the happy illusions, and the most smiling fade hope: Life is a perpetual pain.
The past is sad to remember the good lost, in this we find the joy, the future fills us with horror ... " "Is it true that pain is the sad heritage of humanity miserable?
