My countrymen were quick to warn that late afternoon I spent hours listening to me play to Gabrielita.
One night, he entered the pharmacy, I heard talk of Miss Fernandez and saying something about me.
I soon learned that in all the corridors, in all the gossip in every house, they said and repeated that I was in love, I drank the wind by the daughter the wealthy owner of Santa Clara.
XV One afternoon I received a note from Don Roman, a note very punticomada, gracefully written, with the excellent letter that Palomares years ago that my teacher gave skilful reputation hangers. "My dear disciple and friend "Like you I offered yesterday, last night I was to visit Mr.
As I told him I thought it appropriate: I told him of your good qualities, your good character, your hardworking nature, your statement strong and targeted, and the difficulty that I was to continue the studies and career started so brightly, and the need that you looked to find something productive.
Oyome of goodwill (which I thought was a good omen) and I promised to take in the matter at the earliest.
I judge it necessary to make a visit as soon as possible and I recommend you try my friend (who was also very close, the Lord your grandfather) your great and characteristic kindness, courtesy makes you unique.
Castro Pérez is paid much of externalities, and to have you flatter environment is necessary.
It's manic, and slightest thing goes against him.
Up to you to rest. "Come over here.
The liver is me since yesterday, annoying and 'achicopalado. " Come, talk, and you show you something you'll like it much, some hexameters I forged last night against those "wise men" of "The Shadow" and "The Voice." "You know how much you want this your teacher and friend Román López.
He gave me a bad feeling the esquelita my master teacher.
Of course I thought I was going to try a man of bad character.
I figured it was a Castro Pérez of those lawyers old peritísimos Court issues, but otherwise few out-and-out ignorant, a village matron, paid his fame and his science, those who long for everything old, and are always unwilling to everything new, a phantoms angry, grumpy, those who view with suspicion by young people, and are pleased at all hours censored encyclopedic education these days, which, while not bulk produce non-breeding wise fools, like so many old people I knew, fenced in his learning scenario, very arrogant and cocky with his science, science meager and mean that conquer them in the popular vile fans and acolytes of that pass as they say amen Socrates of the village, so they loose the biggest blunder.
In a word, I figured Castro Pérez was one of those old lawyer, replete with Latin phrases, which are known memory the items that are allowed to push in canon, and who write miss with 'h', 'cape theologians' as they were called "in illo tempore"; experts in the legal shenanigans, but vacuous by everything else habilis to hide their ignorance and dismissive of what they do not understand; watching everyone with an air of protection, and to appear serious and brainy, showing inaccessible and go for a few wonders sullen and come to be, in towns and cities like Villaverde, lords of life and property.
Surely, nothing will, of fixed all will answer in monosyllables, and leave there angry and desperate.
I hated to follow the advice of my teacher.
I understood very well what it meant to me by saying, "I recommend that you treat my friend with your great and feature goodness"; but it shocked me introduce myself as a shy and meticulous donated pretending estimate that did not happen to me the limits of a vulgar and common respect, as we give all for reasons of politeness and courtesy.
He lived behind the parish, in a dilapidated and gloomy mansion.
When I reached the hallway I was tempted to go back and go talk to Don Procopio.
I slipped the rundown.
My man, almost lying on an armchair near the window, looking through a file.
Pérez Castro's face changed expression. - Come on, girl, - muttered getting up and offering me a seat, - here you have a chair.
We will see, see if you are useful.
If you want to work .... - It's what I want ...-- muttered, looking down, while the lawyer looked me straight in the eye. - Well, I want it, trabajadorcito.
procure, under such right direction, learn in a short time as necessary.
Pérez Castro smiled, and two hands clasping the thumb and the index is composed glasses, and then patting the abdomen, and fell back and stopped me. - None of flattery, young man!
Nothing worthy of what they say about me ....
He spoke slowly and calmly, hearing. - You are by far modest ...--¡ Here! - I said .-- Here the incense! - Who is not aware the talents of you, your profound knowledge of his reputation, his honesty purge?
We'll see if you get what you want.
He tells me you was his pupil, and the more advanced .... - The Lord my teacher loves me, and me too lenient.
But it is well known: they are the best employees who go around all day consonants to hunt ....
And very beautiful! - Thanks, girl!
This was his crutch. - I hope you in memory of my grandfather ....
Romao and would speak of the circumstances where I am.
We will see, see if you serve me.
up within a week I can not solve.
Tomorrow I'll see if I can reconcile several things.
Come back here, Friday or Saturday ....
Then light the candle and write down what you like.
I prefer the old and gallant Spanish lyrics ....
And after a pause: - You know: Friday or Saturday .... - I'll come over here .... - No, I'll call you.
I understand that there will Pérez Castro fell ill.
XVI We were in late October, mediated the fall, and the fields were green again by rain show off their foliage.
The morning was crystal clear, fresh, prodigal of light, and sunsets short, splendid, incomparable.
I was happy to wander around Villaverde.
A hundred times I traveled the banks of the Stony, and many others saw, from the top of Brush Hill, sunset.
My Site favorite, where I went every evening, was almost flat rock, which appeared collapsed the last peak, and sideways on a rock, gave me a comfortable seat that surrounded buvardias coral, soft Cebadillas fragrance, wonderful and flowing grasses ferns which floated on the wind, scattered the brown feathers of ripe ears.
North side, the hills of San Antonio, the pastures of the brush, the shacks of Barrio Alto, hidden in the thicket of jinicuil and orange groves.
To the east, the most picturesque in the valley.
Right and left the mountains of Mata-Thick, covered with the lush vegetation of the lowlands, the hill of the Otates that seen from the point where I was, like a camel lying on the sand awaiting the breath scorching deserts.
Between these heights the darkened plain, the sky split in two parallel horizontal strips: upper waxy and transparent bottom tinted violet.
About this area profiles were drawn soft rolling of distant mountains, and the haughty dome Church of Christ, and presumed correct dome, topped by a cross of iron, around which endless circling swallows a few dozen stragglers.
In the snowy peak fringe of silver clusters; celajes tulle, tattered gauze burned by Light west, remnants of burning red brocade, pearly ribbons, birds of fire dyer snakes twisting and stretched, skiffs candlelight lace, which rowed like swans in the huge high sea sapphirine.
The sun was hiding in a slow, majestic golden abyss, the mountains of brilliant clouds, through which passed the last gusts rose miss divergent in the spaces, or down to illuminate with uncanny clarity the solitary purple pastures, the Gramal slopes, the cane plantations of saccharin, the ashes of reeds river, the trees which divide the fields, and the dense woods of a nearby village, which newly whitewashed bell came from the thicket as a pillar ruin.
And here and there, and beyond, and everywhere, in sheets, strands and weeds, golden twinkle of yellow flowers, forerunners of the grim and gloomy days of the first week November.
The last fires of the dying sun shone in the quiet city on the tiles domes, and steeples, stained glass and mirrors, and shiny silver-lend at Stony.
Swift birds returning to their nests, thousands of birds singing in the bushes of the hill, and the wind whispered in the grass.
I plunged me in the contemplation of the spectacle charming.
They woke up in my mind sweet memories, and my heart shudder feelings and tenderness of first love.
My escaped his lips the most beautiful verses of my favorite poet, my hand traced on earth red a beloved name, and the shadows that descended in droves to the plain I thought see the figure to grace the gentle maid.
In such delusions - delusions that were, and nothing more - happened in my soul some painful melancholy sighs and I tore my eyes moistened.
And I sought among the thousands of houses Villaverde the humble home of my aunts.
There were the good old wanted me so much, there was Angelina, the poor orphan object of my love.
Quietly, very quietly, fearing that any hear me, I said the name of the sweet girl, as if she were near me and could I would listen and tell: Angelina, I love you I love you!
