Arose at this, went to the site and invited the youth to come up with it.
very alone down there in the corridor. - Never dance - all confusing the girl replied, as if any serious misconduct against him. - Do not know V? - Yes, sir, I know, but ... - Come on, do not like. - Before you loved me, now, not so much.
All this was said increasingly shortened, without dropping from the lips an innocent smile and humble, that pleased Michael.
It was all I could please him: the face, without being ugly, nothing I had that could draw attention, moreover, did not see it clearly, because of the dark that the room was.
When he said the last words, she hastily retreated.
Brought him shortly after dinner, the maid was an old ugly and sour, to turn limitose a lamp, setting the table, and on it the dishes, without a word.
But soon Dona Rosalia time again to give talk, and throw it without his tongue, soltola so well that blessed lady, that before the end of dinner and Miguel knew everything about your life.
He had done some quarters, few, with their revenue, thus giving the tobacconist and what some guests left for the summer, lived modestly, but no cheating.
He had six children: the eldest, who had nineteen years, was employed in a shop in San Sebastian, the second pilot studying for Bilbao, the third, Adolfo, I had at home, a piece of wood that served only to give trouble, came after two girls aged eight and ten years, and finally, a child of five who was, by all signs, the idol of his eyes. - And that girl who came to ask if I wanted dinner, who? - Ah, Maxi, poor thing!
It's my niece, the daughter of a brother of Valentine, my husband.
Not met his mother, his father was captain of the Duero, a steam V.
That steam, going to Manila three years ago, ran aground.
My brother, regardless of whether the ship could leave or not, he hurried to his cabin, shut himself up in it and shot himself. - What an atrocity! - He was so delicate, that the thought that he could throw the blame, he amassed the trial and committed this madness.
The boat lightened the ship as a little left, because he says Valentine, the bass was Sandy, the Bonifacio was poor which was there under the water.
Maximina, of course, does not know what the shot, believes his father died in Manila of disease.
We have many children, and is a sacrifice that we impose keeping, dressing and shoes, but something has to do for God, truth, D.
Not bad, no sir, and you know how much to thank your guys what they do for her ...
But the poor is basically useless.
I let her missing until the obligations of home, which like V.
I recently wrote to his uncle (because word would not dare) saying he wanted to become a nun.
But to be a nun, D.
Miguel, you need a dowry, and we can not give.
Valentine was determined to let them out of pocket, but I am opposed.
Gave a bad feeling so sorry for Michael.
Tired of listening to his hostess, got up and under the pretext of arranging the room, went to the bedroom.
Doña Rosalia after left him alone.
That night was not easy to see the general.
His house was across the bay such time as hard-pressed to find her.
Moreover, Lucia wanted his visits were secret forever: it was necessary to know how I wanted that done.
Determined, then wait until the next day.
It was too early to go to bed.
He took his hat and cane to walk around the people.
Upon leaving, was still dancing in the square: Maxi was again sitting in the chair looking at it. - Good night, Maxi - said our youth approaching her. - Ay!
Good night. - Still to be decided V.
Is there a chair out there? - I'll get it now - said very embarrassed.
Miguel, great disengage, put them close together.
As they sat down, started dancing girls to lead them stares.
The night was starry and clear or obscure.
Into conversation, talking about the dance, the time from his trip, sold out in an instant all public areas.
Maximina smiled kindly to what he said, but just answer only in monosyllables, but she was unaware that efforts be made more explicit.
Miguel was inclined to view it. - Do not look good, looks nice, in fact - said leaning back again .-- But V.
also is ...
and very nice too. - Oh, God - the girl said, blushing. - Go it is! - Miguel said, laying his hand on hers and gave her an affectionate squeeze.
The girl did not move: both silent for a moment. - Are we going to play around with the clothes? - Said one of the young so that Johnny had finished his repertoire.
Started the game with items.
They lit a match, it was giving each other through certain words that had to be spoken aloud, paying garment conclude that in whose hands or go out.
Our young took little interest in the game.
When the match came to him quite fallen, dropped it without giving it to Maxi, and paid garment. - Why has not given me? - It asked. - Because we wanted to V.
He got saloon owners of the garments, they were commanded to say yes three times and three times no, they were made to please the audience, etc., etc.
Miguel, while these operations lasted, kept deposit from time to time some little words in the ear of Maxi.
With boldness courtier's run came to seize one of his hands and hold it in hers.
Was surprised to see that she did not retreat.
She was a virgin hand, solid and cold one if not great, but perfectly machined, made him remember the overall, long and gritty and always burning.
Timidly pressed first, then more power: After lovingly caressed her, touching her gently on top.
Maximina let him do withdraw without dreaming, like a natural thing.
In the I wait for spring.
