They can give us thank those poor guys for the happiness they prepare. - Every man has a destiny to fulfill on earth. - I know perfectly well that fate.
Having the many pains that nature and our like we provide. - And if we suffer with patience and commend them to God, to achieve the reward reserved the good.
Always is bad manners to dispute with people who come to visit, but in this case, where a priest, would be a real offense. - Tell you how much she likes, sir.
My duty is to preach the truth without fear of offense.
The gentleman looked back at him this time with a compassionate benevolence, and approaching him and placing a hand on his shoulder, he asked, smiling: - Let's see, Father, if you were God, would make a world as evil as this? - This question is more like a mockery ...-- responded with signs of sadness and disgust the cleric. - What you see how offended! ...
What I mean to ask is whether, taking you on your hand build a better world, full of happy people, happy forever, would you on a whim the other full of pain, sadness, bitterness, would you life to poor beings, good and bad, for the sake of rewarding good and punishing the bad. - God created the world evil, but good.
The myth of the apple.
But assuming that these two deserved punishment What have we to do with his crime?
If a person had wronged him, will you be able to take revenge on their children and grandchildren?
Principiaría you to forgive the offender, and if not forgive, at least be saved from causing any harm to their children.
See you, So, how I am obliged to consider you a better person than God.
A wave of blood mounted to the face of the priest.
The amazement, indignation, he locked the language. - That's mockery unworthy of the most holy - finally articulated .-- I am surprised that having you received a Christian education has reached the point of wickedness.
A wry smile appeared on the haggard face of the gentleman. - Yes, I received a Christian education ...
at least as understood until Christianity now.
Look at you, excuse I've had a father who was like God.
For the slightest fault, daughter of my inexperience, my temperament, my age, I imposed a barbaric punishment, cruel.
If I slept during the rosary, lashes, if he committed three mistakes in the lesson, whipping, if I dropped a blot on the written plan, lashes, if he ran around the house stripes, if stained clothing, spanking.
But still my father was better than God at this point, because the spanking of Ramiro lasted a while while the devils we have to give last forever, as they say you ...
The smile on his lips wandered off.
His eyes, fixed on the floor, widened with a look of terror.
Ahead of them went into swift and grim vision throughout their childhood.
His father, a high, dry, with its large curved and sharp nose like the beak of an eagle.
He had never seen him smile.
Half life was spent in the church, where he dropped to his knees with a strong blow made him shudder (sometimes imagined that he had the knees of iron or stone).
Only you spoke to reprimand or require performance of any task.
I had more friends two or three priests, with which we abhor heard of modern liberalism and godlessness.
She saw him, poor boy, emaciated and sickly, spending two to three hours kneeling in church without ever enjoy the pleasure of running outdoors as children of the destitute fishermen without having a companion with whom to communicate their innocent thoughts.
One day like another.
The sky is always gray.
And the silent house, gloomy, dirty, occasionally echoing walks with slow, rhythmic, his father.
Lancia could be seen later in studying the second education, staying at the home of a cleric of the same temperament and habits than his father.
His teammates despised him because of his weakness, his lack of ability, teachers were I looked askance by nature reserved and sad.
Despite their ardent desire to pursue a career failed.
His father considered unworthy of primogeniture House Montesinos to write a motion or a road map: the lawyers were called curia, engineers to masons, teachers maestrillos.
The military liked, but his ideas Traditionalists prevented him from sending his son to serve a liberal government.
Unable to serve their king with arms of a noble life should be up early to hear mass, add a look at your finances, talk a while with the butler, playing triplets with the priests, then give them a walk, pray the rosary, confession often and constantly giving example the plebeians of virtue and piety, without ever rubbing them.
But despite the large showing respect for the priests kissing and holding hands in public, Álvaro remembered a detail that had always attracted much attention, when eating the servants served before the master and his son that the chaplain of the house.
Aristocratic pride even more vivid beat in the heart of his father that the religious sentiment, but he knew so well in the ally them depths of his conscience, which had come to believe that religiosity was a quality deprivation aristocrats, and that distinguished it better than any other of the multitude negligible.
Peñascosa could be seen in making the life of idle gentleman, as a child under ten years despotic authority of his father.
He began to read novels that gave him sneak a lady who had tobacconist Quadrant street.
Rose after the library, where a clergyman, brother of her grandfather, Wise went through in life, had made great copy books, and began to devour them.
In his life, sad, monotonous, only religion, thought God, the promise of immortality, of another world more just and more beautiful sweeten little the bitterness of the hour.
And behold, suddenly wary of this sweet promise, doubted whether all the truths of religion, even the existence of God.
At first went suspicious, dark, fearing that his father discovered his abominable in the eyes thoughts.
Then, cruelly tortured and overwhelmed by them, anxious to find remedy your wrong, a hand that sustained him before falling into the abyss of perdition, had the courage a day of throwing at the feet of his father and confess.
The old aristocrat was terrified and to remedy the folly of their child (so called) found no alternative but to advise Penance, fasts, mortifications of all kinds.
For him, these doubts did not come rebellions rather than meat, which had to fight with the humility and discipline.
Suddenly jumped the barrier of doubt and fell on the field in disbelief.
Since then, neither a moment's hesitation, more and more convinced every day that this world was worthless, and that out of this world had to wait otherwise.
Death of his father and confessed with remorse not sorry.
Treat anxiety and breathed the air of freedom.
There was a time when Life seemed less horrible, the world had for him a sweet smile.
It was when the well filled pocket, he went to Madrid.
First science offered comfort and entertainment.
Caught up with avidity the latest ideas in philosophy, history, science natural alternated, discussed with the most eminent men of Spain.
And he had the satisfaction to observe that there in his solitude of rocks, meditating on the ancient books had reached the same results as the modern philosophers.
Then came love, a dream sweet and heady, pungent and divine music that was suspended some time on misery of the land, which reconciled him to life and woke up in their hearts the hope infinite the illusion of immortal bliss.
The fall of that world of light, happy, smiling, was Cruel indeed, one of the blackest pages in recorded history of mankind, where there are so black! ... - By the way - leaving said his ecstasy painful skeletal hand from the front - I've had enough time to seriously those things that you believe.
I had a hard time pain, many sleepless nights, many tears separate from them.
Let me return you so many tears I laugh a little now. - So - said the priest shaking badly repressed - that, forgetting entirely beliefs you sucked, the holy religion of their parents, declaring you an enemy of God ... - Yes, sir, the enemy of God and men ...
That is, unfortunately I can not God so, does not exist.
If there is, judging by his work, God would be a good evil.
Can not be of God, I am of the men not to harm but to flee them as they flee from the ferocious beasts.
Since I was born I have been experiencing many pain.
However, I never tried to get back at them because I know they are evil because it has created Nature or Fate, they hurt as do the beasts, for selfishness that rages within every living being.
I have left nothing but bones.
Good men suffer the consequences of any aberration; can not survive.
All animals are born with a defense to fight in combat life, some have teeth, others have claws, some have horns, some have wings flee: the good man is the only animal that has no means of defense.
It is the poor fly in the vast tangle spider web shaped by the rogues that make up the vast majority of mankind.
The only consolation that the good man can have is that their tormentors are not happy.
Within the universe conceals a cunning force, perverse, that drives us, leading us towards an unknown end for us, which have nothing to do.
To this end we need mysterious and forces us to reproduce.
The individual for her is nothing, the species is everything.
Work as the owner of a livestock kill before a good horse that no longer works, forces him to leave an infant.
Concerned only with perpetuity so you will not ever missing instruments, deceives us with the lure of pleasure, ambition or pride.
Yourself, who does not work for any of these phones, is also an instrument of the species.
To worry about the fate of these poor orphans, seeking earnestly the means of living, you unconsciously obeys the orders of the evil force.
When not just the attraction of pleasure for the preservation of life, appeals to the sense of compassion that has placed within us.
In this thrill followed by a lively irritation.
It took a great effort of will not to break into insults against blasphemy. - It's all very well - said controlling himself and forced smile, - but you will excuse me ask you a question.
In that dismal pessimism as you profess, the idea deplorable that you have formed the world and men, in that brutal atheism (pardon the phrase!) which has to exhibit much pleasure, are you sure that everything depends on cool and collected right?
Anyone who suffers on earth can ask God like Job: When the existence will asked for nothing? ...
For the rest - said adopting a contemptuous tone, insulting - from you have entered through that door I knew what was coming.
I am convinced that you believe religion is nothing more than a set hypothesis innocent as those of all other religions invented by poverty and cowardly men, who can not resign himself to dying good as other living beings, as irrefutably teaches us experience, that can not be convinced that they are born for pain.
And not think on a whim, but after having studied and pondered the matter at length, after following step by step carefully the history of religions more important.
If I were to choose one among them would certainly be no Christianity which is one of the saddest and most senseless.
What happens to me Goethe: the cross grates on me nerves.
Therefore, none of you convince me.
You have no respect for me that you pay his character and his works.
Of their science and of all his colleagues, bishops and archbishops me laugh out loud.
His eyes shone fiercely, looking down, but these eyes softened tremble suddenly saw the tears in her P.
Gil. - Excuse me, sir, excuse - was quick to say, approaching him - if I have offended.
It is God who ... - So I'm happy, because it does not matter .-- ...-- replied smiling bye.
You know you have a friend here and a house available.
V Damn left the house in a state of indescribable confusion and sadness.
Refused go to Ms Eloisa, who was waiting impatiently.
When I later saw her, manifestole failure in short and clean words.
For a few days made efforts to remove from your thinking that unpleasant interview and even blasphemous image.
Overwhelmed, crushed by a reception so brutal, no idea who had no means of fighting that devil full of anger and rage of impiety.
But His words resounded day and night in his ears, chasing him, hurt him as cruel lashes.
Knew some arguments of the heretics, those who brought the books of theology and that the author, with the authority of the Fathers, always victoriously refuted.
Knew the existence of the rationalists, but the news was weak and vague.
I had never been expressed in a way so cynical atheism.
I did not think he was truly had convinced that God did not exist.
Dissipated, however, after a while printing, could not help thinking that had unnerved soon.
Too knew that the sheep had not been good to deliver First, it would be a cautious man, scholar, who was not to attract four common spaces.
Under the ironic and cynical statements of primogeniture guessed Montesinos Throughout the study area, a thoughtful and complete.
To combat this system and reasoning can be argued that the wickedness was necessary to know in advance, discuss and weighted prior to the head, then, to appear in the mouth of the unbeliever, destroy, Dust them.
So do not be afraid to try again this coveted conversion.
But the more difficult it was, the more obstacles in the way, more alive was their desire to achieve.
