But he was not moved to the threat.
Needed to hold his own way prosperity of the ship.
It was not possible before the repair.
But trying to calm himself and placate his mate, repeated many times: - England will indemnify ...
And to numb his impatience, was moved to the ground.
The village was scarce in famous buildings.
The pieces were as dark cabin.
The rods were occupied by an ox white, lustrous, with huge horns and wide, an animal similar to those contained in religious ceremonies of the ancients.
To his right was towing a horse, his left a big ass and lean.
And this triple and discordant coupling was repeated in all stationary cars to ships along the docks or flipping their heavy wheels the slope that leads to the upper town.
A few days later, the captain felt fatigued and bustle of Naples.
In the cafes of Toledo Street and the Gallery of Umberto I had to defend some boys troubling with low-cut vest, tie wing and felt a little lopsided on the locks, proposed that quietly organized recreational events unheard of foreigners.
Pretty had also seen the paintings and household objects unearthed from ancient cities.
It seemed an inverted recess look so childish fantasies of sculpture and painting as a character having the phallus Main ...
One morning I took the train, and then skirting the smoking mountain of Vesuvius, passing between Pink villages surrounded by vineyards, dropped in a season: Pompeii.
Hotels and restaurants, in mournful solitude the guides came like a swarm of wasps suddenly awakened.
They lamented the war, which had cut the flow of travelers.
He was perhaps the only one who was coming in all day. "Lord, at any price !...» But the sailor continued.
Always, remembering Pompeii, had made the desire to return to see her alone, all alone, to receive a direct impression of ancient life.
His first visit was seventeen years before, when I was piloting a glider Catalan anchored in the port of Naples, using the cheap price of a Sunday.
All had been confused in a group that pushed and stepped on by listening to the guide more closely.
Leading the expedition was a young priest and elegant, a Roman Bishop Dress silk, and with him two foreign ladies and goons that were planted on higher ground having their skirts lifted for fear of some geckos that snaked among the ruins.
The loneliness so often desired for his second visit he was met.
The Dead City had no other noise than the flutter of insects on the plants, who began to wear spring, and reptiles running around invisible under layers of ivy.
At the Herculaneum Gate, the guardian of small museum Ferragut let alone consider the emptied of secular bodies: several Pompeii plaster in the attitude of terror that death had surprised them.
I absorbed the news of Rome, intrigues of German diplomats, the possibility that Italy entered the war.
Echoed their steps under the sunlight with a sound equal to that of the hollow underground tombs.
When stopped, the silence was reborn, "a silence of two thousand years", he thought Ferragut.
Y in the old silent voices sounded far with the violence of a bitter argument.
Were guards and employees of the excavations, which, deprived of work, gesticulating and insulted in their seats twenty centuries, deeply alienated by the patriotic enthusiasm or the fear of the horrors of war.
Ferragut, with the plane in hand, went to these groups, no one should rise to guide.
For two hours might believe a neighbor of the ancient Pompeii was left alone in the city on a holiday dedicated to the gods countryside.
His gaze went up the extreme end of the straight streets, without running into people or things to be reminded modern times.
Pompeii seemed smaller in this solitude.
It was a narrow crossing paths with high sidewalks paved with polygonal blocks of lava blue.
In the interstices formed fertility laces tight spring grass dotted with flowers.
Ancient carriages, the that there was not dust, had opened with deep wheel ruts in the pavement.
In all the moments he was a public fountain with a mask he had thrown your mouth water.
Certain red signs advertising the walls were verified in the early elections of the current era: mayor candidates or of diunviro recommending that voters Pompeii.
Phallus wielded doors to ward off the evil eye, others a couple of coiled snakes, symbol of family life.
In the corners of the streets, a Latin line engraving the wall begging the passer to refrain from dirty outbursts.
Were still living in the walls stucco cartoons and puppets, designed by Cesar urchins century.
The houses were built at the light on a floor which had happened the tremors, until the arrival of the final catastrophe.
They only had brick or cement the ground floor.
The others were of wood, and had been devoured by the volcanic fire, leaving only stairs.
In this city, funny, friendly and easy life, more Greek than Roman, all lower floors plebeian houses had been occupied by small shops.
Were stores with the door the same size as the establishment: caves square, equal to those of the Arab souks, that show to its farthest corners of the buyer arrested in the street.
Many kept even your stone countertops and earthen jars.
The buildings had no particular facade.
Its outer walls were smooth, unaffordable, with the odd lattice skylight and high, as in the palaces of the East.
The door was like a gate to escape; whole life was turned inward, flowing wealth and magnificence to the yard central, adorned with pools, statues and flower beds.
The marble was rare.
The columns, constructed of brick, were covered with stucco offered to the paint surface.
Pompeii was a city polychrome.
All columns, red or yellow, were capitals of different colors.
Predominated in the walls the black patent leather with red and amber, occupying its center a small table, over often erotic.
In the friezes and newts rode love between rustic and maritime emblems.
Tired of your trip through the dead city, Ferragut sat on a stone bench between the ruins of a temple.
I looked at the plane put on their knees, sipping titles that had been designated the most interesting buildings on account of a mosaic or of a painting village of Diomede, home of Meleager, Adonis wounded, the Labyrinth of the Faun Black Wall.
The street names were not less interesting: by the Baths, via of the Tombs, route of Plenty, Theaters pathway.
The sound of footsteps roused her head to sea.
They were walking tall and strong.
Had their faces veiled hat and a larger veil crossed behind his back, sustained by the arms by way of a shawl.
Ferragut guessed a major difference in the ages of the two.
His step was alive, but rested on the floor with your feet some authority bulky widely shoes with low heels.
The younger, tall and slender walking small bounds, like a bird that only knows how to fly, strutting on the steep heels.
The two watched with concern to this man who suddenly emerged from the ruins.
His first impulse was to retreat, but continued to guide his way unmoved, and eventually follow.
The lane of the brothels was next.
The Guardian open a door, leaving after watching, with dramatic anxiety, as if set out its pleased to use this for a tip.
And the two ladies were going to see some paintings fuzzy showing how there is nothing new and original in this world: yellow figures and naked, the same at first glance, no other news that the exaggerated bulge sex differential.
Half an hour later, Ulysses left his bench with tired eyes and severe immobility the ruins.
In the streets of the Spa again visited the house of the tragic poet, then Pansa admired, the largest and most luxurious of the city.
This Pansa had undoubtedly been the most ostentatious bourgeois Pompeii.
The xystos, garden attached to the house, had been replanted with vegetation Greek cypresses and laurels among pictures of roses and violets.
By following the outer wall of the garden, Ferragut found the two ladies.
Cotemplaban the flowers through the bars of a door.
The younger English expressed his admiration by a swaying his purple roses around the pedestal of an old faun.
Ulysses felt an irresistible desire to be bold and gallant.
He wanted interest to the two foreign theatrical tribute.
He felt the need to draw attention something dashing and daring Spanish waving to all far from home.
With an agile climber masts, saved from a jump the garden wall.
The two ladies gave a cry of surprise, as if to witness something unprecedented.
This boldness appeared subvert the ideas of the oldest, accustomed to life in disciplined people who respect hard all prohibitions.
His first impulse was to escape, to avoid being complicated in the bombing of the unknown.
But a few footsteps stopped.
The most Young smiled, looking at the wall, and reappear on it Captain, almost clapped with enthusiasm, as if to hold a risky kind of gymnastics.
The British navy believed them, and spoke their language to deliver both wearing pink in hand.
There were flowers and all, born in a land equal to the other lands, but under the ancient walls, the vicinity of the stalls and the house built tavern by Pansa time of the first Caesars, were given the same interest as if they were roses two thousand years, miraculously preserved.
The largest and most luxuriant gave it to her, and she accepted it, smiling, as something that belonged without question.
His partner, once the first impression of the gift, showed impatience to get away from this stranger. "Thanks ...
thank you! "and pushed the other, had not yet finished his smile, the two abruptly walking away.
A corner adorned with a fountain hide them from the few steps.
When Odysseus, after a light lunch in the restaurant Diomedes, came running to the station, the train was to depart.
He wanted to see Salerno, famous in the Middle Ages for their physicians and navigators, and then the crumbling temples of Paestum.
Going up in the first car who found the way, he seemed to see the veils of the two women disappeared behind a door that closed.
In Salerno station returned to descry occupying a hired carriage that was lost in a nearby street.
Then in the rest of the afternoon, he met with them necessarily, by the attraction experienced by travelers in a small town.
They met at the port, mortally threatened by the movable bar sand were in the gardens near the sea, near the monument Pisicane, the romantic Duke St.
His companion went ahead, his eyes wandering, wanting ignore their presence.
At night they saw shorter distance.
They lived in the same hotel, same accommodation to all the small ports with excellent food and unclean rooms.
Its tables were close, and Ferragut, after a greeting coldly replied, he beheld the two ladies, who spoke little and quietly, fearing to be heard by a neighbor.
On seeing the older with the free face veil, suffered no disappointment.
Your enemy maybe in another time would have disturbed the peace of men, but could continue hostile gestures with impunity and hosters: Captain did not think so sad.
Should be more than forty years.
Its abundant bore some fresh meat, work on care and gymnastic exercises.
Instead, his face, white skin, transparent yellowish subcutaneous flood, which seemed formed with waves saved.
On the old hair, a red hue, artificial curls piled hiding baldness and gray hair.
Her eyes, green, had the opacity of bovine eyes calmly when were free of myopic glasses.
But just these crystals mounted in gold were interposed between it and the outside world, the two took a sharp drop glaucous punch people and objects.
The girl was less grim.
Seemed to smile with the corners of his eyes, while half Ferragut her back, thanking his admiration moving and searching.
She wore her hair in disarray, as a woman who is not afraid of the indiscretions of her hair and let it emerge fuses under his hat winding with all his rebellious nature
