And she, unaware of the thoughts of his companion, deceived by the stillness of her face still talking to staring into the horizon, speaking softly, like if count himself illusions.
The sacrifices as proof of love to this woman left cold, welcoming them with a skeptical expression. - All men have told me the same thing - he added -, all promise to kill if they are loved ...
and most of them is but a phrase of passionate rhetoric.
And although they are killed really, what does this prove? ...
Suicide is a resolution of one minute, that does not place to repentance, a simple nerve burst, a gesture that is often thought in what people say, with pride of the actor frivolous want to fall in good posture.
I know what that is.
A man was killed by me ...
Ferragut, hearing the last words, shook his immobility.
A malicious voice sang on Brain: "I go three !...» - I saw him dying - she continued - in a hotel bed.
He had a red spot like a star the bandage on his forehead: the hole in the pistol.
Died clinging to my hands, swearing I loved and who had been killed by me ...
And yet I'm sure he himself was deceived, that I loved.
He was killed by wounded vanity to see me away from him, for stubbornness, for theatrical gesture, influenced by his reading ...
This was in Russia ...
I've been an artist a little time ...
The sailor wanted to express amazement that produced the various mutations of this existence errant and mysterious increasingly showing a new side, but he restrained himself, for better hearing advice cruel evil voice that spoke his mind ...
The killing was not intended for her ...
Freya went on. - To kill is not a proof of love.
All have promised me from the first words the sacrifice of its existence.
Medium amber sky was the other half of Blue Night, which began to flash the first stars.
The Gulf fell asleep beneath the leaden cloak of the water, exhaling a mysterious freshness communicated to the mountains and trees.
The silent air trembled with exaggerated loudness, repeating the fall of a Rowing boats, small as flies, which slid down the Gulf Cup, extending female voices and invisible to chase in the woods of heights.
The servants were from table to table placing candles encased in paper lanterns.
The mosquitoes and moths, revived by the twilight, buzzed around the flowers of light red and yellow.
His profession endangers every day, and when it rests on the ground I can risk it for the most trivial reason ...
He paused again and continued: - The honor is better than life for some men, the respect, preservation of their place.
I just convince a man who risked for me honor and position, descend to the bottom, without losing its will to live ...
That's love, cold and not lies, oaths drama of our world.
Ulises repeated his mental comment: "Definitely crazy." But this thinking is reflected in his eyes so clearly, she guessed. - Do not be afraid, Ferragut - he smiled -.
I will not require such a sacrifice.
All this I'm talking about is fantasy, imaginative inventions to fill the emptiness in my soul.
Blame the wine, exaggerated our libations to the gods, which have now been without water ...
In the endless dark sky twinkling eyes starlike.
The vast gulf cup reflected their sparkle like ice cream wisps.
Lanterns the restaurant drew purple spots on the tablecloth, looking around them the faces of those who ate with violent contrasts of light and shadow.
In the closed rooms escaped scandalous kissing noises, persecution and falling furniture. - Come on! - Freya ordered.
He resented the noise of vulgar orgy, as disgraced the majesty of the night.
Needed moving, walking in the dark, breathing the fresh air of mysterious gloom.
In the garden gate hesitate to offers of several coachmen.
Freya was the one who rejected their offers.
He wanted to return to Naples on foot, following the gentle descent of the road of Possilipo, after a long standstill in the restaurant.
Ulysses gave her arm and began to advance in the shade insensibly driven in initiated by the ease of going downhill.
Freya knew what this trip.
At first steps the sailor told it with a kiss on the neck.
I was going to take advantage of all the bends of the road, from high in some places discovered to descry the Gulf phosphorescent through the woods, the long shadow areas, cut only occasionally to time by the lamps or lanterns public carriages and trams ...
But this freedom thing and his companion were accepted, she had taken the first step at the Aquarium.
In addition, she was sure of his serenity, which would keep the love in the limit she wanted to set you ...
And convinced of its power to react in time, abandoned the same as a woman up.
Ferragut had never had an occasion as auspicious.
An appointment was alone in the mystery of night with a large space ahead of time.
The only thing annoying was the need march, to unite the hugs and oaths of love relentless ambulatory activity.
She protested, coming out of his trance, every time I proposed love to sit roadside.
The hope was that Ulysses obeyed Freya, eager for swift action to Naples.
She did not answer, abandoned in the arm that the captain had passed through his waist, leaving drag as if half fainting, squinting and offering his mouth.
What matters is putting it in the hotel. " They had walked about an hour and imagined that only a few minutes had elapsed.
On arriving at the gardens of the Villa Nazionale, near the Aquarium, they stopped for a moment.
There was more light and less people in the way of Possilipo.
Fled the electric lights Caracciolo road, reflecting in the sea pearl moons.
Both instinctively they approached a bank, seeking the shade of ebony trees.
Freya had suddenly calmed.
He seemed irritated against herself for his neglect in progress.
The excitement from kissing, constantly renewed, had made him long for a delivery immediately, with the exasperated desire ...
To be close to the hotel now regained their energy, as in the presence of a hazard. - Goodbye, Ulysses!
I'm going to spend the night at the doctor.
The sailor pulled a little, with the flip of a surprise. "Was it a joke ?...» But no: no was questionable.
The tone of his words betrayed a strong resolution.
At the same time mental counselor told him bitterly: "It is making fun of you! ...
It is high time that this is over ...
Make her feel your authority as a man. "And this voice had the same timbre that Triton the deceased.
Suddenly thought of something violent, brutal, ignoble.
Ulises fell upon her as if to kill her, pressed in his arms, and two, made one body, fell on the bench panting, struggling.
The shadow tore the white flash of a wave of undergarments removed.
The vigorous Ferragut, trembling with emotion and desire, had only half its strength.
Suddenly jumped back to two hands clutching a shoulder.
Experienced pain excruciating, as if one had just broken bones.
She had repelled an accurate working pressure of Japanese fencing, which uses the hands as weapons irresistible. - Ah ...
this! - roared throwing the worst insults women.
And fell on her again, like a man, joining his loving desire a desire mistreat, debasement, making her slave.
Freya awaits foothold ...
Displaying the glacial brilliance of one of his eyes, Odysseus, not knowing why, it was agreed Eye of the morning, the reptile partner dances.
In this raging bull attack was stopped by a simple touch on the forehead, a tiny metal circle, a kind of frozen thimble which was based on his skin.
It was a small revolver, a nickel gleaming deadly toy.
Had appeared Freya's hand out the secret of their clothes, or perhaps from that bag of gold which content seemed inexhaustible.
She put a finger on the trigger, he stared.
Should not be the first time brought to light.
With a man, had taken over his claw hand menacing, twisting it until it breaks, without his revolver inspire fear.
But I had opposite to a woman ...
And this woman was able to kill him, placing him in a while ridiculous situation ... - Withdraw, sir! - Freya ordered formal and threatening tone, as if speaking to a stranger.
But it was she who eventually withdrew to see Ulises stepped back, being thoughtful and confusing.
He turned his back, while his hand disappeared from his revolver.
Before leaving muttered several words that could not understand Ferragut, looking at last time with contemptuous eyes.
They must be terrible insults, and uttered the same as in a mysterious language, he felt deeply his contempt. - No way ...
He said this several times before returning to the hotel, and thought for a night's vigil cut in agonizing nightmares.
Well into the morning I awoke from slumber final the trumpets of the bersaglieri.
He paid his bill in the manager's office and gave the last tip the doorman, telling that a man hours after the ship would come to take your luggage.
I was glad with the joy that forced the need to adapt to events.
It congratulated for their freedom, as if this freedom had conquered voluntarily not be imposed for contempt of it.
It was better not to remember what happened.
He stopped in the street to throw a last glance at the hotel. "Goodbye, albergo damn! ...
Only here could live away from the complications and lies of terrestrial life.
All people of the ship, in the weeks before the arrival of the disgruntled feared captain, smiled now, as if they could see the sunrise after a storm.
Distributed good words and affectionate pats.
The work of rebuilding was going to end up Next ...
Greeted in the kitchen Caragol Uncle ...
Surely would get to them hundred years.
And the cook, flattered by so much praise, whose origin could not understand, responded as always: "Yes, sir." Toni, quiet, disciplined and family, inspired him with no less admiration.
His life was a life straight, firm and smooth as the path of duty.
When junior officers spoke presence of noisy dinners to jump to the ground with women from different countries, the pilot shrugged. "The money and the other should be retained for home," said sententiously.
Ferragut had laughed at many times of the virtue of his second, he walked hunched and sleepy for much of the planet, without allowing any distractions to awaken with a voltage overwhelming if the chances of career brought him to live a few days at his home Navy
