For first time he saw him mourn.
This time he did not regret the responsibility for their china.
You see, the bandit has a son and you, after four years of marriage ...
Need a grandson, do you understand?
To console himself for this lack of children at home, went to the ranch foreman Celedonio where a small band of mestizos were gathered, fearful and hopeful, about the pattern old.
Poor Misia Petrona went quietly, as he had lived, trying to in the last minute to avoid any disappointment to her husband asking for forgiveness with his eyes by inconvenience that could cause his death.
Elena came in the room to see the body his mother, and Desnoyers, who had more than a year holding back the fugitives the father, took the opportunity to overcome this anger. - Forgive her - said the landowner after a long resistance -.
I do it for the poor deceased and you.
To stay at the ranch and that comes with it the gringo scoundrel.
The German would be an employee under the command of Desnoyers, and the couple live in the administration building, as if they belonged to the family.
Never would lead word to Karl.
But just saw him coming, spoke to treat the "you", giving him orders rudely as same to a stranger.
After always passed along to him as if she knew.
Finding at home to accompany Helen's older sister, also went ahead.
In vain, "the romantic" transfigured by maternity, took advantage of every opportunity to put before him small and repeated his name loudly, "July ...
July. " - A son of gringo singer, skinned and white-haired kid carrot, want that is my grandson ...
I prefer to those of Celedonio.
And for more protests, entered the house of the overseer, distributing handfuls to the small fry pesos.
After seven years of marriage made the wife of Desnoyers felt he was going to be a mother.
Her sister already had three children.
But what they worth to Madariaga, compared with grandson I was going to go? "It will be a man - said firmly - because I need it as well.
Be called in July, and I want to look my poor deceased. "Since the death of his wife, who no longer called "China's" felt something like a posthumous love for that poor woman who had so endured during his life, always shy and silent. "My poor deceased" came to every time rancher in talks with the obsession of a regret.
His wishes were fulfilled.
And with the generosity of joy, allowed the German entry into her home to attend to the feast of the baptism.
When Julio Desnoyers was four, his grandfather as horseback riding through the room, placing it in the front seat.
Going from ranch to ranch to show the populace copper, as an old king who has to his heir.
Later, when the grandson able to speak loosely, be entertained for hours talking with him in the shade of eucalyptus.
Pussy yet, but his aggressiveness was taking a childish character.
Even in the largest expansions of love is worth the contradiction, bother looking at his relatives. - Come here, false prophet! - Said to his grandson -.
July protesting as if insulted.
His mother had taught him that he was Argentine, and Father we recommend adding Spanish, to please my grandfather. - Well, because unless you Frenchy - continued the rancher - he shouts: "Down with Napoleon!" And he looked around to see if it was close Desnoyers, cause to believe that a big hassle.
But the son went on, shrugging his shoulders. - Down with Napoleon! - Said in July.
And had the hand immediately, while grandfather sought their pockets.
Karl's sons, who were already four, and moved around the grandfather as a humble chorus kept at a distance, watched with envy these gifts.
To please, a day just saw him resolutely approached, shouting in unison, "Down with Napoleon!" - Gringos bold! - Roared the old -.
That is what you have taught them the scoundrel of his father.
This blonde offspring tolerated, but not allow any privacy.
Desnoyers and wife took the defense of their nephews, their fairness.
And to quench comments of its dislike looking to Celedonio, the best of the listeners, then replied to all: "Yes, pattern. " "So be, boss." - They are not at fault - the old saying - but I can not love them.
Moreover, as like his father, as white, carrot-haired frayed, and the two largest wearing eyeglasses the same as if they were write! ...
Madariaga had never seen sharks, but he imagined them, without knowing why, with Glass round eyes like pieces of broken glass.
At the age of eight years, July was a rider. "A horse Peoncita!" Grandpa ordered.
Y out at a gallop over the fields, like sparks from among the thousands and thousands of cattle horned.
The "Peoncita" proud of his title, was due at all to master.
And thus learned to pull the loop to the bulls, leaving them trapped and defeated, to jump fences wire to his little horse, a boat to save a deep hole to slide over the gullies, but not often shoot under his saddle. - Ah, gaucho fine! - Grandfather said, proud of these achievements -.
Take five pesos to gave him a handkerchief to one China.
The old man, in his growing mental Confused, did not give an exact account of the relationship between passions and years.
And the child rider, to keep the money, he wondered what china was that and why should you a gift.
Desnoyers had to start his son the lessons of the grandfather.
It was useless to him to do teachers come in July or trying to send to the school of your stay.
Madariaga kidnapped his grandson, escaping together to take the field.
The father ended up installing a child in a high school in the capital when it was over eleven years.
Then, the old set attention in the sister of Julio, who was only three years, taking it, and the other, ranch to ranch on the front of his saddle.
Everyone called Chichi to the daughter of Chicha but the grandfather gave him the title "Peoncita" as his brother.
She was dressed like a boy, he rode the same as men, and to merit title 'gaucho fine' conferred by the grandfather, had a knife in the back of the belt.
The two were in the fields from sunrise to sunset.
Madariaga still seemed like a flag braid rippling of the Amazon.
What most irritated the rancher was that the family remembered his old age.
Councils Desnoyers to remain calm in the house welcomed them as insults.
And advanced years, was more aggressive and reckless, taking extreme activity, as if she wanted to scare to death.
Even while I have life, and those who wait I die to grab my weights are disappointed.
The German and his wife, kept apart in the life of the stay, had to suffer in silence these references.
Karl, in need of protection, living under the shadow of the French, taking advantage every opportunity to overwhelm with his praise.
I could never thank him enough for what he did for him.
It was his only defense.
The wife admired his brother with great extremes of enthusiasm: "The gentleman most accomplished of the earth. "And Desnoyers silently thanked the membership, recognizing that German was an excellent companion.
As available at all of the family fortune, Karl generously help without the old would know.
It was he who took the initiative so they could perform most of their illusions.
Desnoyers, therefore they had no desire to return to Europe wanted to facilitate this desire to his brothers, and gave Karl means that it might be the trip with his family.
The old man wanted to know who paid for his expenses. "Let them go - said with joy - and never return. " The absence was not long.
Spent in three months what they had for a year.
Karl, who had made known to his relatives the great fortune that meant their marriage, wanted to appear like a millionaire, in full possession of their wealth.
Elena became transfigured, talking to pride of his relatives, the baron, Colonel of Hussars, the commander of the Guard, the court counselor, stating that all peoples were negligible beside the homeland of her husband.
So it took some air protection praising Desnoyers, a man Well, certainly, but "not born", "mongrel", and also French.
Karl, however, expressed the same commitment as before, remaining submissive modesty behind his brother.
This was the keys to the box and was their only defense against the terrible old ...
He had left his two older children at school in Germany.
I was at school in the capital, and the nuns educators had to struggle greatly to overcome the rebellion and wickedness of their brave student.
On returning to Julio and Chichi stay during the holidays, focused his favorite grandfather in the first, as if the girl had only been a substitute.
Desnoyers conduct complained somewhat disordered child.
Was no longer in school.
His life was that of a student rich family that remedies the parsimony of their parents with all sorts of imprudent lending.
But Madariaga came out in defense of his grandson. "Ah, fine gaucho !...» Seeing the room, admired his kindness handsome.
Tempted him to convince the arms of his strength will did talk about their fights at night, as a valiant champion of young bands licentious, called street gangs in the argot of the capital.
He wanted to go to Buenos Aires to admire about the gay life.
He had already gone from the eighties. - Come, false prophet!
I know what I'm saying.
Paternity inevitably contained in all its romantic fantasies.
He was almost blind, and the agony of his eyes was accompanied by a growing mental disorder.
His senile insanity took on a lewd character, expressing itself in language which scandalized or made everyone laugh the stay. - Ah, a thief, and how cute you are! - Watching his grandson said with eyes that saw only pale Shadows -.
The spitting image of my poor deceased ...
Have fun, your grandpa is here with his pesos.
If you'd only to have what you give away your father would live like a hermit.
The frog is the hard fist: there partying with him as possible.
Spend and triumphs, that's what your Tatica has collected silver.
When the grandchildren were leaving the room, amused his solitude by going from ranch to ranch.
A mature mixed on the stove was boiling water for their mate.
The old thought confusedly that it might be his daughter.
Another offered him fifteen years of bitter zucchini liquid spliff with silver to sip.
And so I would evening, still and silent, sipping mate after mate, surrounded by families who watched him with admiration and fear.
Each time he took his horse for these excursions, his eldest daughter protested. "At eighty and four years!
Any day they would regret a disgrace ... "And unfortunately wine.
The horse became a dark pattern with slow step and without a rider.
The old man was shot in a hill, and when I picked up was dead ...
Thus ended the centaur, as he had always lived, with the whip hanging from the wrist and bowed legs, the curve of the mounting.
His will he kept a clerk Spanish in Buenos Aires almost as old as him
