So if you prefer this ...
how we live here, but montunos and poor, the wealthy use City ... "So entendístelo, Marmitón?
But I slept with wary curiosity to know sight of land they had voluntarily bury, and feeling suddenly revive that strong desire to see a bit of light filtering through the cracks of the doors, I rose quickly, Laverne shivering in the shelter envolvíme thickest of the various I had at my disposal, and looked at the same balcony that I had looked at night.
The rain had stopped, but he was the wretched remnant of sky was visible from there a heightened head full of clouds passing at full speed over the rock border disappeared over the roof of the house.
Between cloud and cloud and when it broke a joint of the tight rope, hinted at a jironcito blue, dotted with pearly glaze; something like hope for some sunshine later, if by chance in that wild governing region weather the same laws in the world I knew.
Leaving this point in doubt, went down with the look and attention to what interested me at the moment: what could be seen from the earth in all directions from my observatory mossy stone with rusted iron railing.
Forward and almost touching his hand, a huge rock that was out of sight at the top, and even continued to grow as he walked away up the hill to my left, step toward decreased slowly right and as it stretched down the hill, to crash, become slope, a mountain that cuts off her skirt extending from one side to another.
Touching the rock of the hill and to disappear into the gap left by the left between the bottom of the hill and mountain, down the river to escape, tumbling and prancing and roaring in its channel narrow and deep, covered with weeds and mysteries.
Tilted towards the river between him and the house, below, front and left of the balcony, viscous soil moist slabs with patches of grass, moss, nettles and Bardales.
In right and almost lead to the balcony, the principle of a front yard that was down and gave back at right angles to the other, as well as the shed that fencing on the side the river, and was destined, by visible signs, blocks, fuelwood and hay.
By hindrance of these roofs and the long line of the façade of the house, only reached to see the right, a narrow strip of cultivated land, parallel to the river and falling the valley, as all traces, extended to that part, ie, right River.
And all this, the courtyard and roofs, and the ground outside, and the brambles and ferns and the railing of the balcony, in short, as was seen or felt from my observation, moist, glistening and dripping.
There being no smiling thing that put the light on that side, we went to the other facade corresponding to clear the border to my bedroom.
Unable see also from there, and for the same reason, the rest of the facade, I supposed, and not without reason, that the building was occupied by my body overhang.
The balcony fell on a garden of the same width as that facade of the house, and very little longer, with corresponding inclinations toward her and toward the river, a dozen fruit trees in skeleton, a box half rotten cabbage, some plants of rue, marjoram and rosemary, a vicious rose fallow Moreover, an old wall to fence it all, and over the wall, the emerging black moles of a rocky amphitheater of mountains that are beyond walking in tall with the rock on the right, which was part of it.
From the direction of light and other signals rather easy to estimate, say for sure that front of the house faced south, and the lastral coming down to my left, ie to the east, between the wall of the garden and the mountain on that side from a high cliff that I saw something far away, I had come the night before
