Spirit had seized him.
Did not know what purpose it got there, so far from the part of the garden where they lived theirs, and eventually drop into a field hemp to the roadside.
Soon his drunken snores sounded painful between the green and upright stems.
I felt heaviness in the head and stomach weary.
The pressure produced on its sickle stomach cross belt gave him chills.
By joining stuck his head between hemp and saw a turn of the road to an old man I walked slowly, wrapped in a layer.
There was her man, the same he wanted to see from the previous day.
The old usurer had hesitated long before leaving home.
But the fear in drawing its absence in the orange grove was stronger than their fears, and thinking that the farm was away from the shed attached, stood in the road.
And stood to contemplate his garden, and laughed at the fear last jump of the bed when he saw Barrett himself hemp, and it seemed a huge demon, red face, arms outstretched, preventing any leakage, cornered at the edge of the ditch that ran parallel to the road.
Believed to dream; crashed his teeth, his face green stood and dropped his coat, revealing a dirty old coat and rolled up to his neck scarves.
What happened yesterday was to make it a little scared ...
You're going to continue on the land ....
And bend your body, keeping you close the Barret.
Intended to drain, run away the terrible scythe, whose blade broke a ray of sunshine and blue skies reproduced.
As was the ditch behind him, could not find room to move, and threw the body behind seeks to cover the clasped hands.
I repeat that was a joke.
Sickle tired of obstacles, had shot down one stroke of the clenched hands.
Hung from the tendons and skin, and red blood stump threw hard, splashing to Barret, who roared to receive in the face of the hot spray.
Faltered the old man on his legs, but before falling to the ground, horizontally split sickle against his neck, y. ..
Don Salvador fell in the ditch, his legs were in the ditch, blown by a kick slaughtered beef funeral.
Meanwhile, head buried in the mud, let go of all its blood in the deep gap and water stained red, following its course with a gentle placid murmur glad the solemn silence of the afternoon.
The canal, the red, seemed more mighty.
Suddenly, the farmer, dominated by terror, began to run, as if afraid that the stream of blood drown the overflow.
So cried the garden of Don Salvador's disappearance.
Everyone guessed the Barret's hand, and nobody spoke.
The barracks had opened for him his last hiding; women would have hidden under their skirts.
But the murderer wandered like a madman through the garden, avoiding people, lying behind of the slopes, crouching under the bridges, escaping across the fields, frightened by the barking of dogs, until the day after the Civil Guard found him sleeping in a haystack.
For six months only spoke in the garden of Barret.
Sunday went like a pilgrimage for men and women to prison in Valencia to watch through the bars to the poor "liberator" increasingly gaunt, with sunken eyes and look worried.
Came the view of the process, and sentenced him to death.
As Barrett had been always docile, voting as the chief and ordered that passively obeying sent, there were trips to Madrid for his life, and the pardon was timely.
The farmer left the jail made a mummy, and was taken to prison in Ceuta, for to die there a few years.
Disolvióse his family, disappeared as a handful of straw in the wind.
Daughters, one after another, were leaving the families that had been collected and moved to Valencia to earn a living as maids, and the poor old, tired to bother with disease, left the hospital, dying shortly afterwards.
The people of the garden, with the ease with which all the world to forget the misery of others, barely remembered now and again the terrible tragedy of Barret, wondering what would be their daughters.
But nobody forgot the camps and barracks, remaining one and another in the same state the day when justice drove the unfortunate settler.
Was this a tacit agreement of all the garden, a plot instinctive, in the preparation barely saying a word, but even the trees and the roads seemed to get into it.
Pimento had said the day of the disaster. "To see who was the handsome dare to get into that land! " And all the people of the garden, even the women and children, seemed to answer with their eyes of mutual understanding, "Yes, to see." Parasitic plants, thistles, began to emerge from the cursed land that Barret was kicked and stabbed with a sickle on the last night, as if sensing that her fault die in prison.
The children of Don Salvador, some rich men as greedy as his father, mired in creyéronse misery because the piece of land remained unproductive.
A farmer resident of another district in the garden, the man who never missed handsome had enough land, he felt tempted by the low price of the lease and to go through with to all fields that inspired fear.
I was going to till the land with the gun on his shoulder, he and his servants were laughing at the loneliness they let the neighbors, the barracks were closed to his step, and followed them from afar hostile glances.
Much the farmer watched, sensing an ambush, but it was useless caution, because one afternoon when I returned alone to his house, when he still had not finished clearing their new fields, you dropped it out two shotguns, but saw the attacker, and miraculously came unscathed from the handful of BBs that he passed to his ears.
He had been pulled from a ditch, ambushed the shooter behind the Canar.
With enemies and could not fight, and the bully, on the same night, gave the keys of the cabin to their masters.
Pimento was undoubtedly the author of the attack, which prevented the fields were cultivated and the Civil Guard seized the check from the garden, taking him to prison.
But when it came to the statements, all paraded before the district court affirming Pimento's innocence, but to those rustic rogues they could start a contradictory word.
Even old ailing never left their barracks declared that day, at the same time that they heard the two shots, was in a tavern Pimento Alboraya of carousing with friends.
Nothing could be against these people and look stupid gesture candida, scratching his neck lied with such aplomb, Pimento was released, and all the barracks came a sigh of triumph and satisfaction.
Since the test was made: everyone would know in future that the cultivation of those lands paid to the skin.
Cultivate the land themselves, and sought laborers between people suffered and submissive, smelling of rough wool and misery, low in search of work, driven from hunger, from the ends of the province, from the border mountains to Aragon.
In the garden he pitied the poor churros.
And the result was that the docile churros the next day instead of going to the field, mass presented themselves to the owners of the land. - My lord, we come to pay us.
And they were frustrated all the arguments of the two bachelors, furious at being attacked in their greed. - My master - answered everything -: semos probes, but we have not encontrao life behind a haystack.
Not only left the job, but passing notice to all his countrymen to flee from earn a wage in the fields of Barret, and those who shun the devil.
The landowners asked for protection even in the public papers.
And pairs of Civil Guard were to run the orchard, to bet on the roads, to surprise gestures and conversation, always unsuccessfully.
Every day looked the same: women sewing and singing in the vines, the men in the fields, bent, eyes on the ground, giving no rest to the active arms; Pimento tending to the great man sticks to the league, hoping to birds, or helping Pepeta to clumsy and lazy, in the tavern a few old Cup sunbathing or playing trick.
But The guild did not trust, no farmer wanted the land or even for free, and so the masters had to abandon his efforts, allowing it to be covered with weeds and that barrack is shut down, awaiting the arrival of a man of good will can of shopping or work.
The garden trembled with pride seeing how that wealth was lost and the heirs of Don Salvador became the "holy." It was a new and intense pleasure.
Ever had to impose the poor and the rich get below.
And the drive seemed more delicious bread, good wine, the lighter work, imagining tantrums of two greedy, that with all his money had to suffer the rustic orchard fun of them.
In addition, this spot of devastation and misery in the midst of the meadow was used for the other owners were less demanding and taking example in neighboring leases would not increase and it took up when the semester to take effect.
The desolate fields were the talisman that kept closely united to the huerta, continuous elbows touch, a monument proclaiming its power over the owners, the miracle of solidarity of misery against the laws and the wealth of those who are lords of the land without working or sweat on their lumps.
All this confused thought, made them believe that the day when the fields were Barret cultivated the garden would suffer all kinds of misfortune.
And do not imagine, after a win ten years, he could enter another person abandoned fields that Tomba, a blind pastor and talkative, that in the absence of audience, recounted his daily exploits guerrilla dirty his flock of sheep.
From here the gasps of amazement and anger expression across the garden when Pimento from field to field and in barracks hut, was making it known that the land had Barret and tenant, a stranger, and that 'he' ... "Him!" - Whoever he was - was there with all his family, settling without hesitation ... 'As if it was yours! " III Batiste, to inspect the uncultivated land, there was said to work for a long time.
He was an energetic man, entrepreneur, seasoned to the struggle for win the bread.
There he was 'very long', as he said, and also comforted remembering trances that had seen worse.
His past life was a continual change of profession, always within the circle of misery rural, moving every year automatically, without a finding for family well-being mean that was all his aspiration.
When he met his wife, was young mill near Sagunto.
Then working "Like a wolf" - he said so - so that your home is not missing anything, and God rewarded his diligence by sending each year a son, beautiful creatures that seemed to be born with teeth according to the hurry that arose in the chest maternal leave to ask for bread at all hours.
Result: they had to leave the mill and devoted to roads, in search of greater profits.
Dead dream, never dared, as partners, to sleep in the car, leaving the animals march guided by instinct.
Watched at all hours, was always close to nag front, avoiding the deep potholes and missteps, and yet, if a truck poured was his, if an animal fell ill because of the rains was surely Batiste in spite of paternal care with which he rushed to cover the flanks of the beasts burlap trappings fell just four drops.
In a few years of strenuous pilgrimage along the roads of the province, eating bad, sleeping in the open and suffering the torment of spending months on end away from family, that I love with affection reconcentrated rude and silent man, only experienced Batiste losses and saw their situation increasingly compromised.
What it worth continuing swollen skins carrying wine or oil barges lost in the hands of builders and car, until it was time, seeing next ruin, left the office.
He took some land near Sagunto: dry fields, red and eternally thirsty in which twisted its ancient carob hollow trees or olive trees raised their powdered round heads.
His life was a continuous battle with drought, a continuing look at the sky, trembling with emotion whenever a small black cloud looming on the horizon.
Little rain, the crops were bad for four years, and Batiste did not know what to do or where to go, when on a trip to Valencia met the sons of Don Salvador, a great masters (God bless), who gave that beauty of fields, free lease for two years until they completely regain their status of other times.
Something he heard what had happened in the cabin, the causes that force the owners so beautiful to keep unproductive land, but after going so long! ...
And Batiste felt himself possessed of a sweet Ecstasy to be fertile orchard grower had so often envied when he passed the road from Valencia to Sagunto.
That was land, evergreen, with the entrails of a crop breeding tireless after another, circling the red water at all hours as life-giving blood for the many ditches and sprinklers that plied its surface as a complex network of veins and arteries fertile to feed whole families with tables, so small, they seemed scarves foliage.
Sagunto dry fields recordábalos thirsty as hell, which fortunately had escaped.
Business The fields were lost, was there much to do, but when you have good will ...
And stretching, the big man strong, muscular back of a giant, round head and a kindly face sustained sheared by a thick neck, a monk, extending his powerful arms, lifted her accustomed to sacks of flour and the heavy skins of the cart.
So concerned was their land, who barely noticed the curious neighbors.
The restless heads poking among cañares or lying on his stomach on the slopes, Men stared at him, little boys and even women of the barracks immediately.
Batiste did ignore them.
He knew what that was, and would be accustomed.
Also, maybe they were interested see how poverty burned ten years of neglect had heaped upon the fields of Barret.
And helped by his wife and children, began to burn a day after his arrival the whole parasitic vegetation.
Shrubs, after writhing in the flames, embers fell facts, escaping from their nasty bugs charred ashes.
The hut appeared to be blurred between the clouds smoke of lamps, which aroused anger deaf throughout the garden.
Once clean the land, Batiste, without wasting time, proceeded to its cultivation.
Were harsh; but he, as an expert farmer, wanted to work slowly, in sections, and setting a box near his hut, he began to remove the help of his family land.
Neighbors burlábanse them all with an irony that betrayed his irritation.
They were gypsies and those who sleep under bridges.
They lived in the old barracks the same as shipwrecked on a ship wrecked endure: plugging a hole here shoring up there, doing real wonders that would hold up the thatch, distributing its poor furniture, carefully fregoteados in all rooms, which were before burrowing mice and bugs.
In point of time-consuming, were like a herd of squirrels, unable to sit still while the father worked.
Teresa Rosetta women and the eldest daughter, with her skirts gathered between legs and spade in hand, digging more ardently than a laborer, resting only to turn back by the hair falling on the red sweaty face.
The eldest son was continuous Valencia travel to the basket on his shoulder, carrying manure and debris, placed in two piles, like columns of honor, at the entrance of the building.
The three little ones, serious and laborious, as if they understood the plight of the family, went to all fours after diggers, tearing lumps of hard burned shrub roots.
This preparatory task lasted more than a week, sweating and panting family from dawn till night.
Half of the land was removed.
Batiste filed and styled with the help of the old and spirited horse, which seemed to the family.
Had to come to his crop, were in San Martin, the time of sowing and the farmer cleared land divided into three parts.
The higher in wheat, a smaller frame for beans and other plant for fodder, it was not something to forget the Morrut, the good old nag.
And with the joy of that after a laborious navigation discover the port, the family proceeded to planting.
The lands of the garden did not deceive, hence would bread for the whole year.
The afternoon saw the planting was completed by the immediate way forward a few sheep of dirty fleece, fearful that they stopped at the edge of the field.
Behind them came an old parchment, yellow, eyes sunken in the deep orbits and mouth surrounded by a halo of wrinkles.
The family looked at him intently.
Was the only one in the two weeks that there were dared to approach the land.
Noting the hesitation of his sheep, he shouted for them to go forward.
Batiste went to meet the old.
Some of it had heard the old Tomba, but in the past two weeks had led his flock to graze the weeds in the cliff of Carraixet, without worrying about these fields ....
Those land, after the poor Barret, were cursed.
I could believe him, that was old and experienced, would bring misfortune. " And the pastor called his herd, to march him down the road, and before leaving threw the blanket back, raising his emaciated arms, and some chanting wizard that predicts the future or a prophet who sniffs the ruin, he shouted to Batiste: - Creume, fill meu: desgrasia will carry you !...[ 4] [4] - Believe me, my son will bring disgrace! ...
From this meeting arose another reason for anger to the entire garden
