Moreover, the mistress was pleased to discrete with Ines, to explain their views and to find way to say I ran as her, that his spirit and the Inesita were in complete harmony. - Come on - said he loves - what do you do fool around here?
Nothing is more harmful to health that this mischievous fashion of Madrid to make the day night and night into day. - I'm coming - said Agnes.
He continued the housekeeper, who always accompanied her, helped her to undress, and get dressed, and never away from her at night until she was in bed.
The bedroom of Agnes was set with singular care and cleaning.
On the bureau, in a glass case, they saw a San Antonio de Padua, package, made of clay and painted not vulgar artist.
Young Ghost, glory in Lisbon was very cute face, had good colors, as if life does not do him penitent dent by the grace of God, and showed ecstatically happy and contemplating the Child Jesus, who was in his arms and lavished a thousand gifted favors.
Poor Inesita bed, three chairs and a small table was over which had writing materials were the same neatness.
Completed the furniture a pine cabinet glass doors, within which there were several books and not a few curiosities and beauties of almost no value, but there were guarded as if they were the most portentous objects art.
There appeared, placed in good order, the wise men and some shepherds and shepherdesses of a former birth, an angel, two dolls dressed in a long bath, and several boxes and juguetillos other witness who gave keeper was thorough and its beautiful owner.
The Inesita linen was in the comfortable, and the dresses and other finery were kept in a dark little room, immediately to the bedroom, where he perches, and where covered some indiana old quilts and coconut.
Inesita first thing he did was hide the letter with the more openly between the pillow his bed and cover.
Then quietly left the housekeeper to help her undress, which was work a few minutes.
And he was finally in bed, her hair gathered no network or cap, but rich and adored loose skein.
Ines said he had no desire to sleep, and asked the housekeeper to let her light to read in a devotional book for half an hour even.
The love, however reluctantly, had to bring veladorcito to bed and leave him a lighted candle.
During all this was not idle the language of love.
Inesita almost always answered in monosyllables, eager to have ended talk and be alone, but the mistress was in the mood that night and not just with his thoughts and speeches.
Among other things said: - Daughter, I can not reach the taste you can have your sister and her husband live in this maze of the court.
Truth is that there salary was more vile, but ...
if there is a penny over here with a hard ...
living so high ...
The worst thing is the little or no case here to make it.
Madrid still I have no person to talk.
Here there is no soul I address the word and give me the good morning.
Then everything is expensive, you eat gold or is necessary dieting, or spend much money eating there.
Begin shortly thrushes, and in our land reach up to five quarters to get a pair.
I command you work ...
None of this is our scope here but when they ring loud. - Do not be greedy, love, do not be greedy, do not remember much of pots of Egypt, as I said Monsieur le Cure, who used to scold you for that vice of gluttony - Ines said laughing. - It's not gluttony, ungrateful.
I'm sorry for you, not me.
I just dish alboronía or a gazpacho.
On the other hand, I'm not mourning only food but also other things.
And I mourn with good reason.
Do not worry so much about me.
