And remember everyone, absolutely everyone's costumes, and described and specified, not to mention ribbons or gallon.
Certainly preparations their dress, and steps had to be taken to procure the items characteristics, robbed long day and night, she missed weeks at the office, and he came here the first dismissal, and severance his first arrears.
Although in very small scale, could also meet other curious Frasquito Obdulia: curiosity, or rather illusion of travel.
Had not been around the world, but had been to Paris!
and that enter description all, Mabille, the Loreto! ...
Ponte was not more than six weeks, living with a great economy, and making very good time, day and night, so it does not will be nothing to see.
In those forty-five days of freedom from Paris, enjoyed it unspeakable, and brought to Madrid memories and impressions that count for three consecutive years.
All I saw, big and small, beautiful and strange, stuck his nose around a little girl, and not I must say that was permitted little debauchery, desiring to know the secret charms and seductive thanks to enslave all peoples, making them tributaries of the voluptuous Lutetia.
de Ponte, that's not for poor. - No, do not believe you.
Knowing handled, you can live as you want.
I spent four Napoleons five newspapers, and nothing I had seen.
I soon learned correspondences of buses, and more distant sites was for a few her.
There Restaurane economic where you serve good food for little money.
Do not you hear more than pardon, pardon all the time. - But among the thousand things you saw, Ponte, you miss the best.
Victor Hugo, you know, was emigration. - And Lamartine, do not you see you? - At the time, and the author of Graziella had died.
One afternoon, the friends I accompanied me on my walks home taught the Thiers, the great historian, and I also led to the cafe where, for winter, I used to go to have a glass of beer Paul de Kock. - Does the novels to laugh?
I also saw the shoe store where you made the boots Octavio Feuillet.
I lasted until the death of Prim .. - That Octavio, what is the author? - From Sybil and other works all handsome. - Do not Know ...
The same thing happened to Mary or the daughter of a laborer ...».
In this Benina told them that I had prepared the pittance, and lacked time to fall on it and do the honors due to the tortilla and marinated pork chops with fried potatoes.
Owner of his will in any act that required finesse and good manners, they are composed Ponte admirably with their nerves for not disclosing the ferocity of his hunger late.
With benevolent trust, Benina would say, "Eat, eat, Mr.
de Ponte, although this is not food thin, like that you get in other houses, not hurts now ...
We must apencar yet ... - Lady Nina - replied the proto-cheesy - I assure you, on my word of honor, that you an angel, I am inclined to believe that the body you have embodied a being beneficial and mysterious, a being that is mere personification of Providence, as understood and understand the ancient and modern peoples. - Válgate God knows, and salty says what nonsense! ".
XVIII With the substance restorative lunch, it seemed that resurrected bodies, and spirits strengthened took flight to the higher regions.
Again installed in the cabinet Ponte Delgado told the delights of the summer in Madrid at the time.
In the Prado met all the cream and flower.
Believe me, friend Ponte, which would have made me fool, if God had not given me the ability to figure out the things I've ever seen.
In its time, mama let me have pots on the balcony, then I removed them because one day I watered so much that rose police and threw us fine.
Here there are hardly any flowers, and that we come by rail and arrive limp.
They say there are so many kinds of roses, I want to see them, Ponte, I want to smell their aroma.
There are large and small, crimson and white, of many varieties.
I am dying of grief for not being able to possess. - I've seen - Ponte said - that of D.
José Salamanca in its heyday.
You Figúresela bigger than this house and the next meeting.
Just think palm trees and large ferns height and cones of America with fruit.
I think that I'm seeing. - And me too.
All you paint me, I see.
Sometimes, dreaming, dreaming, and seeing things do not exist, that is, exist elsewhere, I wonder: "But it could not happen that one day I had a magnificent house, elegant lounges, stove ...
and that at my table great men sit ...
and I spoke with them and they instruct me? ". - Why has not it can be?
You are very young, Obdulia, and still has much life ahead.
All that you see in dreams, see it as a real possibility to be unlikely.
Give you food twenty covered, once a week, on Wednesdays, on Mondays ...
I encourage you, as old dog in society that do not put more than twenty covered, inviting for those days very chosen people. - Ah ...
As you are so beautiful worshipers will ...
Not fail to be in any danger, Obdulia.
I advise you to be kind to everyone, very fine, very polite, but as soon as PROPASE any, magazines dignity, and become colder than marble, and disdainful as a queen. - That's what I thought myself, and I think all the time.
Everything I see and enjoy ...
But believe me one thing and say it with heart.
Amid all this hubbub, deal and I would enjoy very much alms, would I go looking for the most destitute poor, to succor y. ..
You are an angel, and with the magic wand of his goodness will disappear all miseries. - It appears to me that is true what you say.
You see what I get: a while ago we talked about flowers, because I was already attached to the nose has a rich smell.
Methinks I'm within my range, seeing so many beauties, and smelling delicious fragrance.
And now when we talked about poverty relief, I came to say, 'Frasquito, bring a list of the poor that you know, to start distributing alms. " - It quickly becomes, madam - Ponte said caught the imagination delirium, and thinking that should lead the proposal with the name of the first world's needy Francisco Ponte Delgado. - But we have to wait - Obdulia added, giving the snout against reality, to return to jump again, like a rubber ball, and soar to the heights -.
And tell you: in that run by Madrid seeking to alleviate misery, I get tired a lot, right? - But what do you want your cars? ...
I mean, I am assuming that you have a great position. - I will accompany you. - Sure. - What you see him riding a horse down the Castellana? - Do not say no.
I have been a regular rider.
Since we have spoken of carriages, I advise you not have garages ...
you mean by a renter.
You will remove a lot of headaches. - What do you think? - Said Obdulia and unbridled and unrestrained -.
Since I travel Where should I go first, to Germany or Switzerland? - First to Paris ... - But I suppose I've already seen Paris ...
That's the last nail ...
And I: I say that I'm already in, and again on his way to another country. - The lakes of Switzerland are a fine thing.
