Which completed the number of beneficiaries was in July Desnoyers.
The grandfather made special mention of it, bequeathing a field "to tend to special expenses, supplementing what his father did not give it. " - But that represents hundreds of thousands of dollars! - Protested Karl, who had done more demanding to be convinced that his wife was not forgotten in the will.
The days that followed this reading were painful for the family.
Elena and his the other group looked as if it had to wake up, staring in a new light, with look different.
They forgot what they were going to receive, to see only improvements relatives.
Desnoyers, benevolent and conciliatory, he had a plan.
Expert in managing these assets huge, I knew that a deal between the heirs was going to double without increasing costs products.
The German, upon hearing his sentence, he stood proudly.
No, every man for himself.
Each which they lived in their area.
He wanted to settle in Europe, having freely property.
I needed to return to "their" world.
Desnoyers looked at him face to face, seeing a stranger Karl, a Karl whose existence had never suspected when I lived under his protection, timid and servile.
French also believed to contemplate his surroundings in a new light. - Okay - said -.
III Desnoyers family The "succession Madariaga" - as they said in their language of law men interested in prolonging to increase their own fees - was divided into two groups separated by the sea.
The Desnoyers settled in Buenos Aires.
The Hartrott moved to Berlin after Karl had sold all assets, to use the product in industrial and land of their country.
Desnoyers did not want to live in the countryside.
Twenty years had been the head of a huge Agricultural and livestock activities, sending hundreds of men in several rooms.
Now the radius of its authority was severely restricted to parcels of fortune old with the part of Elena and the many legacies.
Le enraged to see established in the immediately to various foreign lands, almost all Germans, who had purchased to Karl.
In addition, it was old, his wife's fortune amounted to some twenty million pesos, and his ambitious brother, when he moved to Europe, perhaps demonstrating that he better sense.
Leased some land, entrusted the management to some of the other favored in the testament, which is considered the family, always seeing the pattern Desnoyers, and moved to Buenos Aires.
In this way he could watch his son, who was wearing a hellish life without getting ahead in the preparatory studies for engineering ...
In addition, Chichi was already a woman, her strength gave him an early appearance, beyond his years, and was not should keep it in the field to be a young lady like her mother paperback.
Dona Luisa also seemed tired of the life of stay.
The triumphs of his sister caused him some discomfort.
Was unable to feel jealous, but, for maternal ambition, he wished his children are not left behind, shining and rising as the children of the other.
The higher the wise family.
Was devoted to philology and historical sciences, but his sight was becoming increasingly poor, owing to the continuous readings.
Soon to be doctor, and before Herr Professor thirty years.
The mother complained that it was not military, considering his hobbies as something that twisted the top family destinations.
Teachers, science and literature were a refuge for Jews, unable by its origin from obtaining a degree in the military.
But he consoled himself a renowned teacher can get with time consideration social almost comparable to that of a colonel.
His other four sons would be official.
The father was preparing the ground so they could join the Guard or in some aristocratic regiment without the co-body voted against the proposed admission.
The two girls are probably marry when they had old therefore with Hussars officers bearing on its behalf a particle noble, proud and gracious gentlemen I was talking enthusiastically Misia Petrona's daughter.
The installation of the Hartrott was worthy of his new friends.
At home in Berlin, easement was in knee-breeches and white wig nights of great food.
Karl had bought an old castle, with turrets pointed, ghosts in the basements and several legends of murders, assaults and rapes, that brightened his story in an interesting way.
A Architect honored with many foreign orders, and also held the title of "Director of Construction" was responsible for modernizing the medieval building, but lost they look scary. "The Romantic" described in advance in the dark receptions games, to the diffuse light of electric lamps that mimic torches, the crackling fireplace emblazoned with their fake logs bristling with gas flames, all the splendor of luxury Modern allied with the memories of an era of powerful nobles, the better, she said, History.
Furthermore, the hunts, future hunting in an area of ??sandy land and shifting, with pine woods, at all comparable to the rich soil of home stay, but who had the honor of being footsteps centuries earlier by the Marquis of Brandenburg, founders of the ruling house of Prussia.
And all this progress, the rapid rise family, in just one year! ...
They had to compete with other families overseas who had amassed huge fortunes in the United States, Brazil or the Pacific coast.
But they were Germans 'unborn', coarse plebeians who vainly struggled to enter the large world by making donations to the imperial works.
And "the romantic" let the pen run a family glorifying within which he believed to be born.
From time to time, with the letters of other short run Elena came to Desnoyers.
The brother gave account of their operations, as well as when he lived at the ranch protected for him.
But this deference is linked to an ill-concealed pride, a desire to retaliate their times of voluntary humiliation.
Everything he did was great and glorious.
Had placed its millions in industrial enterprises of modern Germany.
Was a shareholder in factories huge arms as peoples, navigation companies launched a ship every half year.
The Emperor was interested in these works, looking benevolently to those who wished help.
In addition, Karl was buying land.
It seemed crazy at first sight, having sold the affluent areas of her inheritance to buy sand Prussians produced only by dint fertilizer.
But as a landlord was on the "agrarian party," the aristocratic group conservative par excellence, and so lived in two worlds apart and equally distinguished: that of the great industrial friends of the Emperor, and the Junkers, knights of the field, guardians of tradition and official suppliers of the king of Prussia.
Upon learning of these developments Desnoyers thought in representing the pecuniary sacrifices.
One day in the room, thanks to impulses, revealed French the cause of his journey to America.
He was a former army officer in his country; but the desire to live ostentatiously without other resources than the salary, dragged him to commit reprehensible acts: theft of funds belonging to the regiment, sacred debts without pay, forgery of signatures.
These crimes were not formally pursued by consideration to the memory of his father, but her body peers in a court of honor.
His brothers and friends advised him kick as the only remedy, but he loved life, and fled to America, where at the cost of humiliation had finally succeed.
The wealth erases stains faster than last time.
Now, to settle in the country, everything was forgotten, but what contributions imposed upon her vanity ...
Desnoyers could tell the thousands of frames for discharges into the hands full charitable works of the Empress, for imperialist propaganda, for companies veterans, for all groups of aggression and expansion that the ambitions Germanic.
French, sober man, parsimonious in its costs and free of ambition, smiled at the greatness of his brother.
Karl had an excellent partner, although of a childish pride.
He could not forget German that hovered around him as a loving and submissive younger brother.
When her family commented with a somewhat envious vivacity the glories of the relatives in Berlin, he said smile: "Leave them alone, they cost money." But the enthusiasm that the letters from Germany breathed finally created around his person an atmosphere of unrest and rebellion.
Why would not they to Europe, like the others?
All her friends had been there.
Doctors attending to the ladies declared the existence of melancholy new and terrible disease, "the disease of Paris." Doña Luisa supported his daughter.
Why what she had to live in Europe, as well as his sister, being as it was richer?
Up July expressed its grave in the old world look in greater use.
America land is not wise.
The father eventually ask the same question, missing that would have occurred it before the trip to Europe Thirty-four years without leaving that country that was not yours! ...
It was time to leave.
He lived too close to business.
In vain I wanted to save her retired farmer indifference.
In the club, in the theater, wherever he went, people talked about land purchases, sales, business fast with the profit tripled, liquidations portentous.
Would end up mixing in some speculation, as the player you can not see the wheel without wearing his pocket.
For this is not worth having left the room.
His family was right: "A Paris !...» Because the group Desnoyers, go to Europe meant going to Paris.
Could "aunt from Berlin" sing all kind of greatness land of her husband. "Macanas! - Exclaimed Julio, who had made serious comparisons geographical and ethnic nights of raid -.
No more than Paris. "Chichi saluted with a wry grin doubt about it: "Is that perhaps invent them elegant fashions in Germany? "Doña Luisa support their children.
During his early years in America it was impossible for this trip, had not done military service.
Then had vague news of different amnesties.
In addition, ample time had elapsed for the prescription.
But laziness of his will made him consider a return to his country as absurd and useless.
Nothing kept across the sea Pulling him.
He had even lost all connection with those relatives of the field that hosted his mother.
In times of sadness, projected raising activity to entertain a huge mausoleum, all in marble, in the Recoleta cemetery of the rich in order to transfer the remains to the crypt of Madariaga as founder of the dynasty, followed him, and then all his family when the time came to them.
Beginning to feel the weight of his age.
It was close to sixty, and the rough life of the field, riding under rain, rivers forded on horseback swimmer, the nights spent in the open, had provided a rheumatism that embittered his best days.
But the family eventually communicate your enthusiasm. "A Paris !...» believed to be twenty years.
And forget the usual parsimony, wished his own journey as well as a ruling family, in deluxe cabins and self bondage.
Coppery born two virgins in the room and elevated to the rank of daughters of the lady and her daughter were followed on the trip, without slanting eyes reveal their astonishment at the major developments.
Once in Paris, Desnoyers felt disoriented.
Embroiled the names of streets and proposed visits to buildings disappeared long before.
All his efforts to show off of good knowledge were accompanied by failures.
Their children, guided by recent readings Paris knew better than him.
Had remained in the room years on end without saying a word in their language.
Thought in Spanish, and when transferring ideas into the language of their ancestors, splashed with all sorts of French Creole phrases. - Where a man makes his fortune and his family is, there is his real home - said sententiously reminding Madariaga.
The image of the distant country he resurfaced in dominating obsessively as soon as cushioned First impressions of the trip.
He had no French friends, and out into the street, her steps I instinctively headed to the meeting places of the Argentines.
Had been away from home, to feel more strongly the desire talk about it at all hours.
Read the newspapers there, commented on the rising fields the importance of the next harvest, the sale of steers.
Returning to his home with him also the memory of the American land, thinking with delight that the two Chinese would hit the professional dignity of the French cook, preparing a porridge, a carbon or a pot to Creole style.
He had settled the family in an ostentatious house in the avenue Victor Hugo: twenty-eight thousand francs rental.
Dona Luisa had to come and go many times to get used to imposing aspect of the porters: the decorated, dressed in black and white whiskers like a notary comedy; her majestic, gold chain on his chest luxuriant, and received the tenants living in a red and gold.
Upstairs in the bedrooms, a luxury ultra-modern, cold and ice in sight, with white walls and windows of small rectangles, exasperated Desnoyers, who had enthusiasm for the complicated carvings and rich furniture of her youth.
The same arrangement directed numerous pieces, which always seemed empty.
Chichi protested greed dad to buy him slowly, groping and hesitation. - Miser, no - he replied -.
Is that I know the price of things.
Objects only liked, when he purchased a third of its value.
The deception which showed them was a testimony to the superiority they bought them.
Paris offered him a place of pleasure and could not find in the rest the world: the Hotel Drouot.
Went to him every evening, if not found in newspapers the notice of other auctions of importance.
For several years there was no famous shipwreck in Parisian life, with subsequent clearance of debris, which does not take a small part.
The usefulness and necessity of acquisitions were of secondary interest, the important thing was to acquire at bargain prices.
His daughter now complained that the house was filled too.
The furniture and ornaments were rich, but many ...
The white walls seemed detached from the magnificent stalls and display cases filled.
Shaved sumptuous carpets, on which they had walked several generations, covered all floors.
Ostentatious curtains, not finding an empty space in the classrooms, were to decorate the doors to the kitchen immediately.
Moldings disappeared from the walls under a plywood frame closely together like the scales of armor.
Spent much more than if a fashionable furniture maker was his supplier.
The idea that everything acquired by the fourth of its price will continue these extravagances did of economic man.
I could only sleep well when you imagine having made the day a good business.
Bought at auction thousands of bottles from bankruptcy.
And he, just drank crowded caves, recommending to the family that employs the champagne as ordinary wine.
The ruin of a furrier acquire him fourteen thousand francs fur were worth ninety thousand.
The whole group seemed to feel the early Desnoyers a freezing cold, as if the polar icebergs invade the avenue Victor Hugo.
The father just to gifts with a fur coat, but ordered three for his son.
Chichi and Dona Luisa present in all parts covered with silky mop varied: one day chinchillas other blue fox, sable or sea lion.
The same decorating the walls with new lots of tables, hammering at the top of a ladder to save the expense of a laborer.
I wanted to give to the children examples economy.
In his off hours changed heavier furniture site, ocurriéndosele all sorts of combinations.
It was reminiscent of his good time, while driving in stay sacks of wheat and bundles of hides.
His son, noting that a sideboard peering monumental, but was put in cautiously.
Desnoyers felt some hesitation before two servants, incorrect characters, solemn, long tails, which did not conceal their astonishment at see a man with more than one million of income given to such functions.
Finally, were the two coppery maids that helps the employer, joining him with a familiarity of sisters of exile.
Four cars completed the estate of the family.
The children would have been satisfied with a nothing more, small, brand, showcasing the fashion brand.
But Desnoyers was no man to squander the good times, and one after another, had purchased the four, tempted by the price.
Its entrance was on a street head back to passersby.
The chauffeur needed two assistants to attend to this herd of mastodons.
But the owner was only memory of the skill with which he thought he had deceived vendors, eager to lose sight of such monuments
