He had gone there to investigate a process and while attending a drama.
The sight of his usual passion, but the accident put him in that moment in the presence of a soul with which he joined the memories of youth suddenly awakened.
The man who was there with him was not just the old fellow with whom at one time had had frequent conversations, was also one of the brightest wits of his time.
The nature of this genius had inspired no sympathy, and though he had not discovered, and had just discovered how little the man resembled the writer, the same rivalry intellectual mediated between disturbed him, as his ordinary substraía indifference the necessary composure.
And before that pain felt moved when he was just need all the lucidity of his mind to study the indictment.
But once the young man was overwhelmed by the suspicion of having been himself the cause involuntary suicide of the countess was necessary not only to make him believe that suspect was not implausible, but let the torment and remorse.
As missing lacked physical evidence, it was not possible to form an opinion, but in simple inductions, and between the candle plant assertion, that the countess had not been given the death when light of a new affection shone his dark life, and suspicion to the contrary, that the same failure to obey this feeling would have revealed the misery of his incurable existence which of the two deserves more credit?
Accustomed to exercising its power of analysis in very dubious and obscure, the judge he had been still unclear, but, however, instead of arguing among themselves the various hypotheses, doing everything possible to distract, to prevent one of them, against their will, take roots and disturb the accurate perception of truth.
Ferpierre knew that vegetation of ideas is much faster than that of certain plants that range in short time around him a forest of leafy branches, and that the opinion, though his life seems dependent of the will, and stop under the influence of the contrary opinion, it is nevertheless tenacissima and sometimes resistant to greater efforts.
You need to touch hands to believe, but I'm sure we have committed a heinous crime today.
