I planned to spend this evening at the palace Visit Donna to ask about his health. - Shut up, fool, I've never felt better, especially since this morning.
The slap I have given to "those" not attending to the choir with them, grazed my not put me in a great mood.
For the record my best intentions, I have come to see you.
Please know that I'm fine, what the disease is not true.
That they know everyone in Toledo that the archbishop does not see its canons, and this makes for dignity, not for pride, because while low to see his old friend the gardener.
And the fearsome big man laughed like a child to think about the disappointment that this visit could give the town hall. - And, believe me, Tomasa - continued - I come to you only as a convenience, this afternoon was upset in the palace, I was bored.
Visitation busy walking with some friends in Madrid and I have felt that arrechucho that gives me time to time to reminisce.
Felt need see you, and I thought well in the garden of the cathedral is always fresh.
So thin and so quick, you keep better than me.
You're not wrapped in fat as this sinner, or have medical conditions that bitter tea night.
Your hair is still almost black, well-preserved teeth, no need, as This cardinal, wearing a device in the mouth ....
But anyway, Tomasa, you old like me.
The two old men, ignoring the social differences, with the resignation of fraternity beings who walk to death, they remembered the past.
Everything was the same as in childhood: the garden, the cloister, the cathedral had not changed.
His Eminence, closing his eyes, he still believed the acolyte Naughty half century earlier.
The spiral blue drag of his cigarette seemed his mind by the endless riots past. - Do you remember how fun of me your poor father? "This boy - said in the sacristy - it a Sixto V. "What will you be?" I asked.
And I said the same thing: "Archbishop of Toledo. "And some that mocked the good sexton of the confidence with which I spoke of my claims!
When I was consecrated bishop, he believes, Tomasa, I remembered a lot from him, feeling that he had died.
Would have enjoyed seeing his tears of joy to contemplate with the miter in the head ....
I have always loved, you are an excellent family, and many times you killed me hunger. - Calle, sir, street and remember those things.
I am that I have to thank it so good, so llanote, despite its category, which is almost in the back of Pope ....
And the truth is - said the old with the arrogance of his candor - which loses nothing that way.
Friends like me you will not have any.
You do not surround more than sycophants and crooks, as all the great land.
If it had been a priest for Mass and pot, no one would look face, but Thomas would continue to be their friend, always ready to do a service.
If you want both, it is because you are simple and friendly.
If you spend pride, like other bishops, would kiss the ring and hasta la vista!
The cardinal in his palace and the gardener in your garden.
The bishop welcomed with smiles energetic openness of the good woman. - You will always be Don Sebastian for me - continued -.
When he told me not to call him Eminence and all those treatments that gives people, I thanked him more than if I had given the mantle of the Virgin del Sagrario.
It choked me further treatment, I wanted to scream: "But what Eminence truncheon and Grace, if we scratched small thousand times, because thief saw this great crust and apricot in my hands that I would not scoff! " Thanks I talk to you since I saw him benefited from the cathedral, as a priest is not well tutearle as an acolyte.
The two old men were silent.
His eyes wandered around the garden with some tenderness, as if each tree or foliage covered arcade find a souvenir.
Then again I remember we met here in this garden, a whopping years ago: the least forty-eight or fifty.
I was with my poor sister, who had just married the gardener Luna.
Walked through the cloister which was then hovering around my husband.
Vi enter a beautiful arbor soldadote, a sergeant, with a great noise of spurs, the Shiv arm and a helmet with a tail like the Jews of the Monument.
Were you, Don Sebastian, who had come to Toledo see his uncle, the beneficiary, and would not leave without visiting his friend Tomasita.
I even remember that I said something about how beautiful and fresh that I was after years of absence.
In Spain there are only three races worthy of man of the sword, of the Church or the toga.
My blood boiled, and I wanted to be a soldier, but had the misfortune to catch peacetime.
My career had been slow, and not bitter in recent years my uncle, I followed your advice and return to school, returning to the Church.
And Don Sebastian stood his old body fat, stretching his arms with the arrogance of the last remnants of his force. - You have always been men - said the gardener -.
I tell you many times a certain bandages do they talk about you, criticizing him for if patatin or potatoes. "Do not play with you His Eminence, who is very able to get a day in the choir, and I want and it does not, remove them slap everyone to clean. " - More than once I've been tempted to do so - said the prelate firmly, shining in their eyes a spark of energy -.
But I stopped considering my position and my character peaceful priest.
I am pastor of the Catholic flock, not a wolf that frightens the sheep with fierceness.
But sometimes one can not more, and God forgive me!
I've been tempted to raise the staff to start a fight with the rebel who flock shelter in the cathedral.
The prelate excitábase talking about his struggles with the council.
The calmness of spirit that provided the tranquility of the garden disappeared hostile to remind their subordinates.
Needed, as usual, confide his sorrows to the gardener, with that instinctive benevolence that drives the big to cross with the humble. - You do not know, Tomasa, which these men make me suffer.
I am the master because master, because I owe obedience under the discipline, without which there would be no Church or religion, and I resist and disobey me.
My orders are complied reluctantly and when I want to impose, to the last priest comes out with what he calls his rights, and makes me litigation, and go to the Rota and Rome if necessary.
There is no middle man between them, they are all gossips and cowardly.
And the prelate paled, leaving his seat with painful gesture, as if his bowels moved by intense throbbing. - Pay no attention - said the gardener -.
You are above all, you win. - Of course I shall overcome, because not so!
Be the first time that it is below.
I know that eventually I will see my feet to the repugnant enemies.
Not only hurts us what you do against them, but what you say ...
To ensure their salvation had abandoned the children.
Believe you me, come here not saints; men, all men.
Don Antolin stop there, scratching his head under the bonnet.
The shining diamonds, gold seemed tarnished and dusty, The blackened silver, pearls were dull and dead
