Our Moorish philosophy, asceticism, or whatever you want to call it, gives himself this magnanimous indifference so deplored by economists and politicians, and so applauded by another class of thinkers who look at things from the top.
That's the play we took it we decided that night by operation of law .....
I mean, we owned a reserved eight seats, four people gave two seats each, with a corresponding corner of a head and head .-- We sleep, then immediately the train started up (as we were in dire need the rest of our haste the day, and also to whet your dream and providing rest, to account for the early mornings and other hardships resulting to an artistic and poetic delivery ground chickpeas), and spent much time sleeping. * * * At three o'clock in the morning we woke up hungry.
We were in Sanchidrián, to twenty-five leagues from Madrid, on the other side of the Cordillera Guadarrama.
That is, we had passed through El Escorial, by the above Navas (God bless) by Avila, and several other small towns and large, without us even aware of it .-- Who Don told him Felipe II when the building what was called the eighth wonder!
Who said there would come a time when there crossed people with closed eyes as lovers of art and history as we do!
But what a lot if we had gone with equal indifference the formidable Sierra de Guadarrama (Which is somewhat larger than the Monasterio del Escorial), going unconscious, not only front of their tops, but in their very same womb, the cradle of metals by the office of earthquakes in the regions of hell? * * * Sanchidrián said that we were, and the sting of hunger had roused us.
The same boy who knew the route by which station particularly we were (as nobody had bothered to vocearla), we also participated, motu proprio, the thermometer the telegraph marked at that moment six degrees below zero.
Fact which transform the car into an inn, and dined quietly, profuse and pleasing, that for that announced we had on board the basket of provisions, that nothing was missing in profile, then groceries to more than good law, containing bottles of water and wine bottles, coffee himself Aden and machine to do it, lighting candles that guiorno, and many other refinements of sybaritic and comfort that not even conceived by the ancient Roman emperors.
III EN MEDINA DEL CAMPO Travelers who go to Salamanca in railroad, have to wait in the station Medina (for an hour!) for the train that runs solely between these two We charge .-- illustrious cities, then, with all of our furnishings, and cast ashore standing on the platform, adhering to the high and incomprehensible designs of the companies, which have not seen fit save to travelers this time of detention.
As it was still dark, as already stated, and did all the cold that we were told in Sanchidrián we had to take refuge, like the rest of the travelers (about thirty natural those nearby) in the tiny cafe descristalado and afortunadísimo (vulgo Fonda) of Station, where we were obliged to listen, to our regret, over another call, unedifying and nothing funny ....., to which we get after shirk, speaking us and quietly to the illustrious city whose doors vivaqueábamos so unpleasantly.
This is, therefore, that came out the day funestísimo August 21, 1520, in which Medina del Campo was burned by the mayor and Captain Ronquillo Fonseca, in consequence of its inhabitants have resisted to hand over the artillery to fight to Segovia, raised for the Communards, and we remember also that beautiful letter, written with such why the Segovians to the Madinans, when you read these sublime words worth ancient Muse of History: - "Our Lord is witness, that if burned village development houses, they burnt the entrails to us, and we would like to lose any more lives that many farms were lost.
But take, gentlemen, of course, that Medina was lost because Segovia, Segovia or will not report, or Segovia avenge the insult to the Medina .....
From we say, and to the law of Christians swear, and this scripture promise that all us for each one of us will venture Porno estates and lives, and what less is that all the residents of Medina freely take advantage of the pine forests of Segovia, cutting, to make their homes, wood.
Because it can not be anything more than just that, because Medina occasion that was not destroyed with artillery to Segovia, Segovia give their pines with to be repaired to Medina .....» "Medina (added Lafuente historian) had been until then the emporium of commerce, the great market of the Kingdom, and the principal repository of foreign goods and domestic cloth, silk, brocades, jewelry and tapestry: its annual fairs were famous in the world: all perished on that day of desolation, of seven hundred to nine hundred houses were consumed by the flames. " * * * All of this had begun to dawn, seeing which, we moved the platform of the station, helarnos preferring outdoor rosicleres seeing the dawn, the air to cast and to the increasing vulgarity of the cafe.
The station platform was as quiet as solo .-- Our train had primitive continued his march towards Irun, no sooner we got out of it, and then had another party direction to the great city of Zamora .-- The only thing it would not even think of going out signals was the newly established Salamanca train!
In contrast, the sun came .-- By the way that its first ray did not hurt our eyes directly, but came to respect a loving kiss with arrogantísimo Gothic tower, which we had seen opposite the station, on the ruins of an ancient fortress .-- It was the famous Tower Tribute of the renowned Castillo de la Mota.
This castle, far from Medina few hundred steps, and now separated from it by the tyrannical rail, crown a kind of plateau in these endless plains of Castile, may well play the role of height when it chose to seat a citadel there .....-- Isabella died.
That is, perhaps within this tower, gilded the rising sun, was (and is) the room painted by Rosales, with unique expertise, in the table was called to his reputation .-- There was imprisoned for twenty years, Hernando Pizarro, brother and fellow glories of the Conqueror of Peru .-- He lived also jailed Cesare Borgia the abominable .....
But as if the train had been waiting to Salamanca we were welcome to stay Station at Medina to say "go!", the bell and whistle, and the voices of employees took us out in this contemplation of such venerable ruins and its great historical memories, forced to run more quickly to the platform, which we had imperceptibly away.
At that moment shone in our eyes, not reflected light, but the same disk sun .....
IV A MEDINA DEL CAMPO DE SALAMANCA We left.
The train turned to the West, no sooner stepped out of needles, and Colossus immediately Medina del Campo, whose last houses adjoining the station.
The railway crosses the same streets of the town, on an embankment a few feet height, through which we see, over fences and walls, within many pens filled with wood, dung and tools of work, and covered with very recent frost where they went and the early morning sunbathing and chickens clucking .....
At least, the windows and doors of their houses were closed, not expelling smoke stacks, and there was not a soul in the quiet streets.
Medina is very extensive, and compréndese well, to see that play important role in the history of Spain.
At every step we discovered dilapidated houses, with every appearance of uninhabited and large lots of others that have been sunk.
Countless church towers new or old (Ie four or five centuries ago, or last century, judging from the shape of their bell and the color of the walls) mantiénense still standing.
Stone abound blackened by time, and still have to count to be down the centuries and the revolutions .....
Disaster caused by the incendiary torch of Ronquillo and Fonseca, everywhere nótanse .-- The remains horrible misfortune of Medina, as those of Pompeii and Herculaneum, is dated determined.
But as we thought in this, the train had already left back to Medina del Campo, and ran happier horizons .....
Let us do the same. * * * Medina is 77 km to Salamanca.
About the first to go, only I have to say that we crossed the great plain Castilla la Vieja, more productive, but no less forlorn and dreary than Castilla New.
As we saw eye reached miles and miles of green fields without newly plows with great care, where the seeds were sown to the crop of 1878, but or a tree or a house, or running water, even the slightest ripple in the field !.....
However, almost black, endless plain, sheltered by a blue sky and clean and flooded with light for a bright and glorious sunshine, was not without charm and grandeur, to Because of its very simplicity .-- The day was beautiful, a true Spanish day, and this beautifies everything.
Moreover, since we were sighting in the solitude of those lands that some farmers quietly plowed and we could not imagine where they came from or what hours had risen to be there so early .-- Seen from the train, people seemed of the Moon viewed from Earth, or inhabitants of the Earth viewed from the Moon or more like a permanent fixture of that scene, such as human figures that put the artists in landscapes.
Minutes later (that's like saying a few leagues beyond) we passed a mound of mud, stone, plaster, tile and broom, topped by a tower his cross and all .....
It was a people was Campillo: I mean, was one of many Campillos as contained in the List of Spain.
Then we passed through El Carpio (ie by Carpio, as they also knew more than one ).....
And to the seven twenty-eight we came Cantalapiedra, famous today for its drinking water, not drank.
There is already beginning to curl the ground .-- Cantalapiedra occupies a sloping plateau, where there also formerly a castle almost impregnable.
In the fifteenth century the Portuguese took possession of it and defended a long time under its walls, the claims of the Beltraneja .-- The inhabitants of the town then proceeded nevertheless the castle that could over time give occasion to new struggles and problems, if left standing, and no sooner completed that civil war, demolished peacefully with its own Wash your hands .-- So that has not always run as axiomatic as to whether vis pacem, for bellum.
And all I can say Cantalapiedra.
Posts run again, the sun, which was already warming up, began to pat into the car, and ended up resting most loving .....
And we spend asleep (as we saw after Indicator) for New Carolina Pedroso, Gomecello, And Moriscos names that have found no echo in our memories, but we had not been asleep.
Instead, he wanted the Providence despertásemos to leave this last station, ie when A quarter of an hour (mile and a half) to get to Salamanca .-- Otherwise, we would suddenly found under the walls of the big city, something opposed to all the rules of art to be moved. * * * The first thing we saw of Salamanca (long before I saw from afar) was his famous bull ....., salamanquinos bulls, a thousand pounds of weight and formidable horns, planted near the track and watching the train with more anger than fear. - Ah, scoundrels! (I was about to tell you).
Upright stone so rampant in the air, so much architecture, so grandiose, so nobly, correspond in all respects to dictate laudatory "Girl .....» Rome was therefore undoubtedly we were ahead of Salamanca.
ENTRY INTO THE CITY STREET .-- ZAMORA Railway Station Salamanca took one kilometer from the city, and since it it runs to a beautiful avenue of trees, which serves as a public promenade.
But this very abundance of lodging a new difficulty arose, which was that, as had not consulted anyone before leaving Madrid, or notice to any friend of ours arrival at Salamanca, did not know what was the best hotel we find, therefore, the situation the French (and French influence far) called embarrass du choix.
It was something of a mistake in point of so much importance.
Wonder, then, to a guard civil (infallible authority, tile below), and he advised us (in confidence) Hotel Trade. - At the Hotel Trade! - Told us then with confidence, penetrating the bus of that dedication.
As for the rest of the passengers ..... (Ah, cuckoo!), And were seen walking on foot for street trees, from which it follows that the other coaches went to the city vacuum .-- But What mattered, if the honor of Salamanca was saved?
Brand new saying goes: Do what you must, but what you should do. * * * Uploaded on rear bracket, and cap, head, and tucked into the waist of our cage, looked at us and smiled the lad on the bus (lad also by age, as there would be under fifteen), and seeing his face I picaresque, worthy of his countryman Lazarus de Tormes, jubilantly díjeme :--«¡ Here our guide until we get to the inn !.....» And I went with him to speak, after donation, which I did, of a cigar.
This young man told us, among many other things less interesting, as the door, and no door, where soon after we entered Salamanca, is still called the Puerta de Zamora, and the beautiful road that begins here also bears the name of the city of Gonzalo Arias.
And we remembered, for our part, the clamor that arose in Madrid Schools the year of 1855, when Salamanca (not all) had seen fit to bring down such door, not realizing that had served as the Arc de Triomphe for the entry of Emperor Charles V Tormes in the city of the year, also of grace, of 1534 .....
The Calle de Zamora said that, as we saw later, it is the best of Salamanca, called on all our attention, and especially mine, on brown, and as austere .-- And old age was my last and then very recent pleasure trip to the theater had been the province Cadiz, and my eyes were made to see people very white, shiny, brand new, new to say, well, green adorned balconies, patios flowers exposed to the public and horizontal roofs of whitewashed style of Africa was still dancing in my imagination those cities with laughter, no smoke or artistic monuments, simple, funny and flirty and young, dressed in calico summer, called Sanlúcar, the Ports, San Fernando and Cadiz.
Salamanca, on the contrary, I had in the Calle de Zamora, dressed in cloth and velvet Iron and suede, as a kind of ricahembra warnings to assist the Council or to the battle, and more fond of the temple to the ball .-- Many houses were stone, others were painted in a harsh, outdated, monumental.
The architecture and archeology, history and legend, completely bizarre gay village Cadiz, reappeared, then, in my view with its venerable character.
Great heraldic field over several doors, or in the spacious canvases very strong walls, or in the black hardware and grills and feudal balconies.
Covers could be seen of the period of the Renaissance might be called Spanish plateresco, others arc Roman with very great segments, style Trastamaras weather, and some as imposing and avoid making, that, to avoid running the year 1877, I would have sworn that living in such houses powerful inquisitors or one of those terrible mayorazgos that used to be leaders of a dozen brothers, all soldiers, monks and nuns were in doubt .-- Castilla Old, or, rather, in the ancient kingdom of Leon!
And note that Salamanca is nothing gloomy or morose of grim, as we they had believed until then, similar to other Castilian cities, but is, certainly knew it was, a gay population, lively, bright, with beautiful sky, free and pure atmosphere, decent, finally, to house, as shelters, which tend to be called at Valladolid and Burgos Castilla Andalusians.
This brings us to the hotel, at the other end of that same street, choose rooms we proved excellent, and since then we are officially notified or warned that lunch at the establishment at eleven o'clock, we beat palms as a sign of joy, and then take the stairs down, to take advantage of the missing peak hour for the canonical lunch, taking the first art walk through the city of Fonseca and Maldonados.
VI LA PLAZA MAYOR .-- THE GRASS Corrill The first walk through the entire historic city should be no guide and no written guide, only how to form their own opinion of things and admire, or do not admire them, regardless for suggestions and comments of others.
