Doña Paulita, who had already addressed the nose to scold Clara, was shocked to see ulcerate, and reassured her: - La Magdalena sinned and was forgiven.
liberal! - Salome said, believing that a grace. - The pride that you have shown in this question has no excuse - Peace said dismissively. - When older people say that you have missed ...-- added another - they know why they say, and you have to do more to settle and quiet. - But alas!
I do not know how I could miss. - When you say it, the reasons will be for it. - But if I have a clear conscience. - Quieter is not replicated when superiors say one thing. - The authority, girl - Peace said, - the authority is necessary ...
Since we have shown you enough fatal influence that you have produced the ideas of the day.
Thus society walk his ruin.
But we'll bring him to you back on track. - For the time being - Salome said - careful how you looks at the window. - It is forbidden to approach you to a balcony or window, that you open the door of the staircase. - And you talk when not asked. - It has to lift you at four o'clock in the morning, that laziness is the mother of all vices. - I get up at the same time, sister - said the devout, - I will provide to you sometimes at that hour to entertain the understanding of holy things. - To see if from here on out is careful not to say those terrible nonsense now he said. - No return - said in an outburst of love of neighbor Dona Paulita - I know it will not return, I I hope that will be good and obedient.
Other saints were made worse. - Be careful how you talk with anyone who comes to this house.
You will work as you send - continued Paz, adding that code to an article fatal. - But not for, too - Dona Paulita informally indicated that the work is good for scaring occasions of sin, but excess is bad. - Do not be too much.
Do not you remember the past, and now that you're committed to our protection for life, must not think only of good behavior.
We, as you have had the misfortune of losing his parents, will try to run it and amend it to be the authority much needed.
His terror was so great that it wiped away tears, and remained in this painful state of perplexity which follows the great crisis of the soul.
Let her in her confinement to go to Lazarus, who moans in a prison of another kind.
CHAPTER XVII # # The liberal dream
