Five years elapsed.
His character has been more suspicious and melancholy.
The yellow leaves of the trees, washed rain, shine like gold, a thousand rivulets down the side hesitant creepeth of the hill and go to deposit their water in the plain, which expands with soft green and wet undulations.
A darker band indicates the channel of Lora, which is hidden under mysterious its rows of willow and thick alders.
The count, with his head thrown back, eyes half closed, breathed with delight the cool damp of the afternoon.
The road flanked the gently sloping hill.
Before transpose and lose sight of the city, stopped his horse and looked back.
Lancia was a lot, not great, red roof, on the dark arrow protruding from the cathedral.
Received a yellow spot under the oak forest of the Farm.
Further down the towers orange of his ancestral home.
A cold wind swept clouds and precipitates behind the mountains.
The sky unfolds seamlessly with the pale blue of the autumn days.
Some stars already point on the horizon like diamonds.
The trees, mountains, streams, valley green carpet covered the undecided in the dim glow of the sunset light.
The count put back his horse and galloped swiftly down the hillside Lancia hiding.
The wind pressed his temples, ringing in their ears, causing a fresh drunkenness dispelling the dark clouds of his imagination.
On the muddy road is not but a herd of cattle, some trajinante with his team, or slowly by oxen-drawn cart, in the bottom of which sleeps the road carelessly.
But before transposing a bend, thinks he hears distant sound of wheels and bells.
It is the seat post that comes at dusk Lancia.
Crossing his side runs a distracted look in the background, and collide with other eyes large and shining.
Feel an electric thrill, head back quickly, but and sees only the back of the chair away.
A fleeting sensation, but very clear, it said.
Had no news of their arrival.
I knew who became a widow a few months.
Garnet had rolled at the end like an ox under the stroke of apoplexy.
But at the same time was valid word that hated Indian widow's death from the humiliating Lancia farce that their countrymen had been given in marriage.
The failure to come when the death of his father, which occurred last year, left him well tested.
Count on this thought a few moments, after he faded from the mind distracted him a cloud thick raped and moved toward the zenith again presaging rain.
But in the background his spirit was somewhat vague and sweet put in a good mood.
The horse stirred and came to Lancia and good night, dripping and covered in mud, but a light heart and gay without knowing why.
Fernanda did not hesitate an instant.
He saw and knew as clearly as he could to warn signals that the time and care had printed on his face.
He seemed older; thought he saw in his long silver beard wisps.
At the same time in his eyes, perched a moment on it, guessed the suffering, boredom, something sad, he was impressed happily.
The memory of her former boyfriend had always lived in the bottom of his chest.
Or treason, or contempt, or the thousand distractions which flew into the frivolous life bustling Paris, had managed to tear it from there.
If I had found satisfaction in the fullness of his strength and health, would not have felt that sweet breath caressed her instantly.
In such a malignant joy was unquenchable resentment of the woman scorned, but also something winged, sound, vaporous, like hope, who sang and laughed in his soul and blacks dissipated thoughts that accumulated on his forehead.
The need, not their will, forced her to return to Lancia, which had vowed not to put feet anymore.
Her husband had made a will in his favor.
The brothers of one challenged him.
Attached was a former servant of his father, transformed into a lady in waiting, and a butler.
From Madrid had telegraphed a premium, and this, together with Manuel Antonio, two girls of Matthew and some friends over, waited in the badly paved square of the Post, which stopped the diligence.
And come hugs and hugs and kisses, and go to questions and exclamations and tears.
The victim heir-Rosa Estrada had not expected to feel such joy the plant in his hometown.
Her friends took her embraced, almost in a twinkling, all the way home.
There were dismissed all but Emilita Mateo, who Fernanda beckoned her to stay.
The two friends reached slowly, holding her waist, the staircase, broad, polished, so often their Girl tiny feet had trod.
They soon shut in the old cabinet daughter Rosa Estrada-time to savor the sweet secrets.
Kisses and smiles and protests of faithful friendship is told his life during those five years.
Fernanda spoke her late husband with a compassion that would be sad and it was very derogatory.
Lived with him in a sort of antagonism of ideas, tastes and desires, which constantly kept away.
Neither was happy or unhappy.
Five years were paraded stunner before him busy streets, glittering theaters, grand hotels, dance halls, dazzling costumes, many acquaintances and no friends.
Her husband kowtow to their whims force, like a bear growling indomitable he obeyed the bottom of the tamer.
Had a daughter, who died at four months.
The playful Emilia was very unhappy in her marriage.
And Fernanda knew but vaguely.
In letters is not easy to descend into some significant details.
At first very well, but then bad company had spoiled.
He gave the game first, then the drink lately by women.
The latter was what was Emilia.
Everything is forgiven by Choice: to come drunk at late at night, he pawned the earrings, covered, until the cap shelter, what could not bear was that he saw enter the house of a loss that lived Locksmith in the street.
In saying that the daughter of Retired let out a torrent of tears.
Saw her pained mourn, for the joy that was always rebellious distinctive character.
Fernanda tenderly caressed her and shared her tears.
After a moment of silence asked - But do you still love him? - Yes, my dear, yes! - Angrily exclaimed .-- I can not help.
Your poor father will also disgustadísimo. - Imagine! ...
And worse - he said, crying bitterly - now returned to his old hobby against the military ...
As I go for house starts to nonsense, nothing more than to mortify ...
My sisters support him ...
At this point, the sobs broke the tender breast Nunez's wife.
When the daughter of Rosa Estrada, had demonstrated that it was not as easy as it seemed to reduce of ground forces, his spirit finally calmed down gradually.
Fernanda be presented that night without prior notice Quinones in the talk show.
A childlike joy seized both with this project.
So that shaped it, Emilita bye, promising to return soon to find his friend.
It was ten o'clock at night when both went up the stone steps, always oozing by moisture, the vast stately steps of Quiñones.
At the top Emilita that forbade the servant announced.
She opened the door Fernanda room and pushed inward.
It was an appearance that left ecstatic for a moment at the circles.
Estrada's daughter, Rosa, wore an elegant dress shop just out of one of the most famous dressmakers Paris.
Her beauty, which his countrymen knew no more than the delicate button was become marvelous rose in the five years of refined and elegant.
Wonderful for the arrogance of her body for the brightness of its large African eyes, by the delicacy of her complexion, the beauty of Paris Fernanda had acquired its necessary, grace, the noble and simple gesture, the taste in clothes, the highest distinction in Lancia had ever achieved.
Her black silk dress left bare chest and back.
Some Pearl runs woven in the hair made up all the trappings of his head.
Amalia was the first he saw her, and suddenly blood flowed from the heart.
I knew you'd come, but figured it would be so kind ...
Both looked into his eyes and declared, with a glint, hatred burning in the background of their souls.
But circumstances had changed.
Amalia was five years ago, the lady most elegant and distinguished of the population, the only one whose poise and refinement of manners transcended to another level more cultured and spiritual.
Fernanda infinitely surpassed by now.
It had aged so obvious.
Among his hair strands were already enough silvery complexion, always pale, had lost its freshness, and he had lost desire and taste in clothes, had been gradually folding under the pressure of society ordinary and corny that surrounds it, adapting to it and neglecting more and more of him.
The contrast was, therefore, more alive.
Well I noticed the noble wife and Grandee felt humiliated to the core of your being.
A smile from her lips as contracted despite Fernanda changed with the obligatory greetings.
The ladies rodeáronla immediately.
It was a deluge of kisses and hugs accompanied by live exclamations of joy.
The men, who formed a circle behind her hands also advanced and warmly shook the traveler's beautiful.
And while much congratulations and congratulatory words, or out of forgetfulness or embarrassment, no one dared to hint at the misfortune that she had experienced A few months ago, even the slightest memory for red bear sleeping their eternal sleep in a cemetery in Paris.
Only when the excitement had calmed Greetings, Amalia took her hand and said smiling at her from top to bottom: - Do you know that are very elegant suits duel in Paris!
Fernanda was a sneer. - Never mind the dress if it is the duel in the heart - Maria Josefa said that in the five years that have passed prodigiously had sharpened the blade, the tip Tailstocks and their language.
Fernanda's cheeks were stained with carmine.
Ashamed as if it were a crime not to feel Garnet loss.
Then, irritated by this hostility, almost violent show anger.
He turned his back and began to talk to other ladies.
At that time the Count de Onís left the cabinet and came to greet her.
He held out his hand with a warm smile.
She handed hers in a glacial, spreading rapidly look.
However, he warned about his eyes a pale circle denouncing emotion.
To conceal walked to the cabinet, said with affected lightness that get free, that he had more desire to see was a D.
The Grandee noble lay on his couch with the cards in his hand.
His hair and beard were whiter, but so bristling and wild.
His strong features seemed more pronounced; sunken eyes shone more brightly delusional.
Moving to work that great torso Athletic empty of the features of his face contracted with a look of fierce sadness and helplessness that inspired fear.
But if your body is visibly cast down, stood his pride more and more verve.
Every day grew a little respect that embodied called himself by Quiñones de León and contempt for others by being born under the stigma of any other name.
What he cared about was if sometimes appropriate to the dignity of having a limb Quiñones entirely inert, and if it would be preferable that they lived to share in the glory of the organism.
When Fernando came into the cabinet looked up and stared at her a sharp look that embraced her from head to toe.
In spite of being mortified by that tone, Fernanda greeted him warmly. - Good to see you so good, my dear, and take this opportunity to give their condolences.
You know I do not write letters for years.
I felt a lot Santos ...
Listen, Moro: proposed you do in your life give me a decent card? ...
It was a good fellow, a good neighbor, unable to hurt anyone.
Fernanda, who felt perfectly all the gall of that speech, he answered coolly, and then of few words went to the salon.
Pedro had bothered him the whiff of elegance and distinction bouncing daughter Estrada, Rosa.
He was irritated that someone were to rise up around him, even it were only a few inches.
Loathed everything foreign, and particularly that Paris, where he envisioned Quiñones de León that were not very decisive influence.
So vaguely suspected, with horror, which were unknown.
Of course I tried to separate mind from such disparate idea.
If you were to enter fully into the spirit, what remained the noble knight?
Die, and nothing else.
Triplet making the game are the same characters we already know.
Saleta, the great Saleta, whose lies are streaming from his mouth soft and syrupy, which forced him to smacking often
