Romualdo: Grandon, stocky sunburnt, and at the same time excellent person, of irreproachable conduct in the church, Hunter, man of the world to the extent it can be a healing, peaceful genius, persuasive speech, tolerant of human frailties, charitable, merciful, in short, procedures orderly arrangement and good as well got along with his position well off.
Dressed neatness, without boasting of elegance without limit smoking good cigars, and ate and drank everything claiming the support of such strong bones and muscles so hard.
Big feet and hands correspond to his bulk.
His features coarse and bulky not without beauty, by the proportion and good design, sculptural beauty mask, miguel-angelesco to decorate a fascia bracket or the center of a poster, missing the mouth garlands and festoons.
Going into details, that the heirs of Rafael yearned to know, gave them news Kidron tidy the will, both as Ponte Dona Paca listened with religious care easily assumed.
Sandalio Maturana and Marqués de Guadalerce.
In part that the two people there interested, provided Rafael: a Obdulia and Antonito, sons of his cousin Antonio Zapata, they left the Almoraima farmhouse, but only in usufruct.
The executors will hand over the product of that farm, which would split into two halves to the heirs of Antonio and Obdulia, the death of them.
A Ponte Dona Francisca and annuity were assigned as many other relatives, income from debt securities, which constituted a major wealth of the testator.
Hearing these things, Frasquito stroked over the ear is the recessed strands of her hair, without taking a second of rest.
Dona Francisca, indeed, did not know what was happening: believe dream.
Soon came to mind memories of the disappearance of her maid, and returning to the side Kidron said between sobs: "Forgive me, I do not remember that I lost the companion of my life ... - I look - repeated the clergyman, and Frasquito, like an echo: - I look like. - If he had died - said Dona Francisca - I think the intensity of my joy would resurrected. - We'll talk about that woman - said Kidron -.
