You know you are selling to the meek the parish ... - And how are you now here in the village? - Since the death of my father (God rest his soul) living at home: businesses have not been very good, and will cost some time to fix yet.
Yet the story, God by, say mass within two years ...
They were in front of a solitary hut on whose door waved a white flag and red, giving testimony that there were worshiped Bacchus. - Do not take anything, but will come down to accompany you.
The devil is hurting me in the chair. - You will not lose time - approaching Celesto said to hold the stirrup and down as Could the voice .-- Are you going to see one of the best party girls, straighter than a pine well-armed and well planted ...
The faces that the seminarian made to utter such words are not for described.
Amalia while washing the glass in a bowl placed at the end of the counter, Andrés examined at your pleasure.
Celesto data seemed accurate.
It was an arrogant girl figure and good eyes logs and bruised arms, fat and too much red.
When he opened his mouth to laugh, taught healthy white teeth, but nothing tiny. - Give me another pink face, when I see you I dried my throat ...
Andrew, do not home would take her to willingly? - And what I had to want this man in your house? - Laughing mischievously asked her. - To give you candy, princess - are not they, D.
Andrew? - Go! - I do not like sweets. - What if I gave you the, star? - Asked the seminarian with syrupy voice, entering the enclosed by the counter and step closer to the girl cat. - Bah ...
then I will gladly eat them - she said ironically. - Really, honey? - Celesto asked while grabbing her by the chin and sticking cardinalfish clear eyes, ignited by a spark of love.
Andrew felt that it should go to see how the horses went.
The carefully considered, reviewed their helmets to see how were horseshoes, fixed gear, while inside the bar hear a cheerful and continued to romp, sprinkled with tender phrases, laughter and not a few blows.
Well there where you see, D.
Andrew, there is nothing Amalita surly. - Ya, I see you know you look for the folds.
Celesto satisfaction laughed until swallowing tears. - Bah!
Already have looked before I did many others.
but there is no more ...
Of course, D.
Andrew, this only lasts until take the higher orders, because I will not be a bad priest ... - You will do very well, otherwise, you'd better follow a different career. - Nothing, nothing, I am resolved to: the same day I ordered that was that ...
Out came outside women, and new life as God intended ...
He kept moving his tongue with increasing vigor seminarian while the operation lasted on his head were the glasses of gin.
When he got tired of talking, singing some Trimmed picaresque song obscene, laugh not a little to young courtier.
Joy is contagious, like sadness.
The Celeste got pegársele and soon came to him The duo, putting unusual exercise forces your lungs faint.
Why not stopped walking at a brisk pace by the pleasant road, which clung like a ribbon white skirts of the hills.
The valley was closing.
Behind the wooded hills and crests poked some mountains announcing that passengers would soon enter another craggy region in the heart of the mountains.
Indeed, the road ended abruptly near a strong tightness of the mountains, where they settled a village of little importance.
Thence along a path as soon as narrow width, which skirted the mountain in the likeness of the road and was shaded by large tracts of farm adjoining hazel.
The landscape was more and more wild.
The valley had been transformed into ravine, where a bustling river and crystalline ran through narrow but very delightful meadows.
Here and there the canyon was amplified, as if to deserve such a name, sometimes closed till you changing into true throat, where there was little more space than that occupied the road and river.
This, as we walked towards his birth, was lost in flow, though gaining much in pleasantness and freshness, more alive, more delicate sound.
Large yellow pebbles which formed its bed dejábanse see very clean, and even in the deepest wells, worked the edge of a cliff, explored the eyes all the secrets of background ...
The mountains Sometimes he stood on a peak, and were white and crowned with ornate crest, including holes which showed the blue sky.
Moss was in these large piers dark green, that stood out bravely against the white of the limestone.
Andrew was silent as a mute.
He was overcome with emotion at this respect and vigorous nature, which had not only seen in the landscapes in oil or gouache. - Are we very far from Riofrio, friend? - No, sir, and we entered the council of the branes.
Riofrio, which is the capital, is in the center.
As we emerge from this tightness and go up a short repechito, we'll see.
You will not like these peñascotes, right?
The seminarian turned his face inflamed gin, fearing that Andrew joke, but seeing very seriously, made a slight grimace of surprise, and herding the horse with hazel wielding, turned to pick up the thread of his favorite song. "Women who are overweight and tender And it has good leg ...
And the priest to sin, Deserved to be a countess, marquise, duchess And the priest cardinal. " And it brought peace to the song, until he spotted a girl who arrived with a basket on his head. - Hello, Telva, good body: where did you go at this hour, chiquirritilla?
I guess not Lada ...
At the same time blocked his path with the horse and give you tap on the cheek with the rod. - Well, I'm Lada. - What if you eat the wolves? - Little is lost. - You'd lose a girl like the sun. - Yes, from noon!
Let me go, Celeste. - In seguidita, but before you tell me where to go. - A Lada, do not you know? - That's not true: you're going to Marin to bring fruit to your aunt, and we went to see your cousin. - Good Wins do I have to see cousins ??or uncles!
Andrew had continued walking, the suspicion that the conversation would be long and not very fun (for him at least).
Repechito rose that he had spoken Celesto, more advanced, and turn a corner the road, suddenly ofreciose to view a spectacle that left him suspended.
At his feet there in the background, discerns an enjoyable and virgin valley, crossed by a crystal stream eses was doing, leaving them both sides dazzling green pastures.
Close this valley some wooded hills darker tone.
Behind the hills, Second, his brow raised high mountains of white stone, beyond these alzábanse other even higher, then higher ones yet, and so on an indefinite series of boulders, leaning upon each other, as if it steep for a glimpse to this fresh and delightful corner.
Andrew was in ecstasy before that semicircle Immense mountains, empty seats seemed a conference of gods.
At the highest played almost the red clouds that accompanied the sun in its descent.
From the hills to mediated lower very short distance, although the view is often misleading in such cases.
Staining white on the dark green of the hills, planted appeared, or rather, hanging over the valley some villages.
At the heart was seen one bigger than the other, resting between foliage of a superb vegetation .-- He must be Riofrío - is putting the said Andrew hand over his eyes, by way of display, to examine in greater comfort.
But the gentle village resisted inspection, half-hiding behind the trees, which served the full extent of poetic stronghold.
Could not be anything more beautiful.
The river, lit by the oblique rays of the sun, was a polished silver belt that imprisons him.
He recalled the untouched valleys of serialized novels, and agreed that he had never imagined anything so beautiful and demure.
Happy thought, who was born in this secluded retreat and never lost sight of him.
At the same time came to his mind a rush of melancholy reflections, inspired in part by its pitiful state, partly by the bitterness of romantic writers, which was saturated.
But when it was entirely embedded in them, behold, a horse, harnessed and without rider, arrives and crosses fast.
Celesto apuradísima was in a state.
Shrunken, folded, curled, lying at the foot of a road boundary walls, while Telva stood a little higher, in attitude angry, flashing eyes, cheeks pale, ruthlessly throwing all the stones that was at hand.
Celesto touched everywhere, to see if I had a spot of body bruised, and said with a sigh: - What a great mare! - I thought you had thrown the horse, it went ahead with great speed ... - Yes, it smells like around the block has not waited.
Mount you, D.
Celeste was a little embarrassed. - Of course, D.
Andrew, this mess will conclude the day you take the higher orders - said after walking a while in silence. - You are right - Andres replied smiling ironically - that day ...
Calm down with all the valley through a narrow, zig-zag path.
The rectory was the first in the village, some distance away from the others.
In front of her stopped.
Almost simultaneously appeared in the corridor and the door respectively Riofrío cure and his mistress. - Who is it? - Asked the priest from above and the love from the bottom. - Almost anyone! ...
I did not think it would be so timely.
Here I go, there I go now ...
In our traveler pleasantly surprised that his poor health depart the heart of a person who had never seen.
Dismounted, took leave affectionately Celeste, and embraced his uncle and escorted by the nurse, climbed the winding stairs of the rectory.
V The priest was nearing Riofrío in sixty years.
He was small and thick, short neck, chubby face and red, or rather, purple, clear, round eyes, as paths a compass; agile in his movements, despite obesity, and strong as an athlete.
The expression his features regular, hard, almost fierce, but when he had to say something, even if as insignificant, v.
gr., when asked the time or the weather was, swelled such luck Bourbon nose, eyes wide open and nailed them with such force the interlocutor, it needed a lot of presence of mind and composure to not lie shaking.
Andrés deeply felt intimidated when her uncle asked her to take off his boots and to set out the shoes. - I think that there is no shoes in the suitcase ...
The priest took a moment in the dark alcove of the room, and left holding a pair of sneakers like boats, which sank with a crash at the feet of his nephew. - Now take off that coat. - What coat? - The ones you are wearing, man ...
paper looks ...
You are dying of cold.
Andrew realized he was referring to jaquette. - No, sir, I have cold. - Yes you have, put on that jacket lining, you'll see how quickly you go into heat.
In the jacket out to him his uncle fit comfortably over it, two nephews.
But Andrew was so scared that I got no reply. - Now you need to hold those heads, man, that head! ...
Wait a minute, do I have a hat that you come from knob.
It was a black velvet cap, high and vueludo, which covered her ears.
When looked the little mirror that hung above the dresser, was a figure as dark and strange, so similar that of a shroud, he felt fear. - Sit in that chair now. - I'm not tired. - Sit down, I say, and respond to what I ask. "I will answer with all honesty? - Yes, sir. - How are you stomach? - So, so. - That's not saying anything ...
The priest, who paced the room with his hands behind him, he stopped in front of his nephew, and nailing in him a look of incredible ferocity, he said with strong emphasis: - Well, it is necessary to heal!
Andrew did not answer. - Well, it is necessary to heal! - Repeated more loudly and without ceasing to pierce with a glance. - Will try - said Andrew muttered. - How? - I will try. - Ensure ...
is good, is perfectly - the priest said, softening a bit and continuing walks .-- The first thing to do to heal is to take care of the coat, especially the coat the stomach.
It makes me five laps.
To you I guess I will give you any more. - I give fifteen! - Thought desperately Andrew, who was sweating profusely and within the sheepskin.
The priest continued walking and developing its therapeutic system founded almost exclusively in cotton and wool.
Andrew looked at him with keen curiosity while not without fear, imagining that he had done badly in coming to fall into the clutches of the savage.
Once the description of the system, the curate of many things, not knowing, touching the family.
Thirty years ago it played one parish, without going beyond its terms four or five times to go to the capital of the bishopric.
Comrade had been the father Andrew, I had wanted in the soul, but since her marriage had not been seen since.
The judge, when the priest spoke to his son, he said, "my cousin Lighter Fermin water. 'The priest, when he referred to the magistrate, had always his finger to his forehead respect, to indicate where the safe was his cousin.
Although some knew what he had passed after the death of one, was not aware of the various events or the Brawls that the boy had with his guardian on grounds of interest.
Andrew, a little calmer and began to refer to often.
For very quiet walking and eating a third of my fortune, I've given for not carrying my mother's brother to court. - Fool! - Shouted the priest sprang upon him with terrible eyes injected, but sudden softening, he said: - It's not your fault ...
Heredia to you after all, as your father, like me, like my brother Pedro ...
Rita came to light a lamp oil, as the room was almost in darkness, then spread the cloth for dinner on a table brown, black and polished by years of use.
Soon came with a steaming pot, which he placed on the table, saying: - Dinner on the table. - Holy Word! - Said the priest, rising.
Sitting in front of him, Andrew noted that the oil lamp light struck a table full hanging on the wall, representing a soldier on horseback. - What general is that, uncle? "- Asked, assuming it was a general. - D.
If you have seen in the battle of Muniesa with the telescope in hand, I understand you, throwing lines and parallel ...
Here, hidden behind the slope, the cavalry to charge when needed ...
At the forefront of Spanish ... "Captain Tal, you display your company and bother you guerrilla enemy flank right ...
What Coronel, protect yourself with a battalion captain may for the case of withdrawal ...
Commander Tal, attack you with four companies that position ...
What Coronel, protect you with a battalion commander Tal in the event of withdrawal ...
Brigadier Tal, you leave with such and such regiments on the left flank to take the enemy's rear ...
Brigadier What, prepare you to tackle head when I ordered.
