The sword, feeling chatty, talking about funny incidents toreril life, ending with the original ads have the feats National Stew your chopper, a barbarian who swallowed whole boiled eggs, half an ear had less, by a friend habérsela started a bite, and being led to blunt infirmaries of places fell into bed with such a weight of iron and muscles, which crossed mattresses with enormous spurs and then had to unpinning like a Christ. - Very original ...
Doña Sol smiled listening to the details of the existence of those rough men, always a round with death, and until then he had admired from afar.
He was not so ignorant as it seemed at first sight.
In the room where coffee was served they saw the sword a guitar, the same, no doubt, that the teacher gave lessons Owl.
Lamented that this was not the nailer of his crew, a guy who brought women crazy with his golden hands to strum the guitar.
Gallardo was on the couch, sucking the magnificent tan who had offered him a servant.
Doña Sol cigarettes smoked one of those whose perfume vague sank into drowsiness.
Weighed on the bullfighter's clumsiness digestion, closing her mouth and allowing no other sign of life than a stupid smile intently.
The lady, tired, no doubt, the silence in which his words were lost, was to sit before a grand piano, and keys, push male wounds, they released the joyous rhythm malagueñas. - Olé! ...
That is Bueno, but many Bueno - torero repelling said his clumsiness.
And after a Seville Málaga sounded, and then all the Andalusian songs, melancholy and oriental dream Dona Sol had collected in his memory, and enthusiast earthly things.
Doña Sol went slowly lively rhythm of popular songs to other music slower, solemn, that the sword, in his wisdom Philharmonic, recognized as "church music." And had not pitched cries of enthusiasm.
She felt invaded by a delicious immobility cerrábanse his eyes could see that, however little it lasted this concert, going to sleep.
His eyes African fijábanse round the neck of white, crowned by a halo of golden hair crazy and rebellious.
Danced an absurd idea in your mind dull, keeping awake to the tingling of temptation. "What would this cunt if I get up, and step by step, he went to kiss him on the ?...» rich rubble But their purposes were no more than a bad thought.
He inspired respect woman irresistible.
He remembered also the words of his agent: the arrogance with which knew scare the pesky gadflies, of that little game they learned abroad The deal was a big man like a rag ...
Suddenly feared rude snoring cut this incomprehensible music for him, and that, therefore, should be superb.
Pinched legs to ginger up; stretched out his arms, covered her mouth with one hand to stifle her yawns.
Gallardo was not sure whether he had to sleep
