But I, who saw things differently, I was creeping until a French column came to stand before me in such a provision, that my shots could enfilade from one extreme to another.
The French are the line with great perfection.
Tome While pointing with one of the parts, engineering looks at the head of the first soldier ...
What caused great consternation in the enemy, but as they did not understand my strategy or could see myself in the place where it was, they sent another column to attack the troops to my right, and that column had the same luck, and another and another, until the battle was won. - It's wonderful - "my master, who, knowing the magnitude of the ball, he would not, however, lie to his friend. - For the second campaign under the command of Union County, sloughing also a great time Republicans.
Boulou's defense, we did not go well, because we ran out of ammunition: I, however did a great destruction carrying a piece with the keys of the church, but they not many, and finally, as a source of despair, I put in my barrel bore keys, my watch, my money, I found few trinkets in his pockets, and finally to my crosses.
Everyday eating Pitt, with Burke, with Lord North, in general and other VIPs Conwallis I called the funny Spanish.
I remember once being at the palace, begged me to show them how it was one, and I had to ride, chop and kill a chair, which amused much to the whole court, especially when King George III, who was very buddy of mine and always said that he commanded me to get my good olives land.
And I will show you the calculations that I have done, not only to increase to an extent great caliber artillery pieces, but to build strength plates to defend the ships and castles.
We gobbled up in a heartbeat and I Marcial leftovers and continue the journey on horseback, marching in step, and we as before in our crippled buggy.
Frequent food and drinks with the dew still further excited Malespina vein of the old inventor, who went all the way broaching its great nonsense.
The conversation turned to the issue of where it started: a war of Roussillon; as D.
El Conde de Aranda, as you know, condemned from the beginning this disastrous war with the Republic.
because we friends since childhood.
When I was in Aragon, spent seven months together hunting in Moncayo.
Indeed I build for him a unique gun ... - Yes: Aranda always opposed - said my master, shortcuts on the dangerous path of ballistics. - Indeed - continued the liar - and if that great man so warmly defended the peace with the Republicans, it was because I advised him, convincing before the untimeliness of war.
More Godoy, who even then was valid, she persisted in continuing it, just take the contrary, as I understood later.
The Queen was very hard at it, and King said no nothing ...
Every day he came with Brown to pull a couple of shots ...
Even the Godoy had formed, knowing my superiority, and if not, I would have missed a little castle where shutting him not to give me to do.
But I refused, preferring to live quietly in my town, and left the public business in the hands of Godoy.
There you have a man whose muleteer father was in the meadow that my father had in Extremadura. - Do not know ...-- said D.
Although obscure man, I thought that the Prince of Peace belonged to a noble family of little wealth, but of good principles. " Thus continued the dialogue, Mr.
Malespina dropping balls like temples, and I love hearing them with holy calm, seeming sometimes angry and pleased to hear other such nonsense.
If I remember correctly, also said D.
Jose Maria, who had advised Napoleon dared made of 18 Brumaire.
With these and other things we went to sleep in Chiclana, and my master, horribly broken and bruised movement because of perjured gig, stayed in the village, while others followed, eager to get to Cadiz on the same night.
While they dined, saddled Malespina new lies, and I could see that his son could hear with regret, as embarrassed to have at father the biggest liar who created the earth.
They took their leave, we rest until the next day at dawn, at which time we continued our journey, and how it was much more convenient and unobstructed from Chiclana Cadiz in the stretch run, we at the end of our journey at about eleven o'clock, no new health and soul cheerful. -VIII- I can not describe the enthusiasm aroused in my soul back a.
As I have a moment of freedom, after my master was installed in the house of his cousin, went to streets and ran them with no fixed address, intoxicated with the atmosphere of my beloved city.
After long absence, which had seen so often enchanted my attention as something new and extremely beautiful.
In many people was the way he saw a face friend, and everything was nice and sunny for me: men, women, old people, children, dogs, even houses, for my youthful imagination watched it I do not know what staff and lively, I represented as sentient beings, it seemed that involved the general happy for my arrival, mimicking on their balconies and windows of the features of a face jubilant.
My spirit was reflected in everything outside their own joy.
Ran through the streets with great anxiety, as if in one minute would see them all.
In the Plaza de San Juan de Dios bought some candy, but for the pleasure of eating, by pleased to introduce composition to the vendors, whom I spoke as a former friends, recognizing some as favoring in my previous misery, and others as victims, not yet appeased, my innocent fondness for loitering.
Most did not remember me, but some I was greeted with insults, recalling the exploits of my childhood and making humorous comments as on my new packing and the severity of my person, I had to leave in a hurry, no without hurt my decorum some fruit peel thrown by hand against my expert new suit.
As was the consciousness of my formality, these jokes more pride caused me what a pity.
I talked to a few sailors I found the step, saying that I was going to the top, and asking in a tone very emphatic if there washed up Nelson's fleet.
After I told them that Mr.
I came at last to the inlet, and there my joy knew no bounds.
I went down to, and removing shoes, jumped from rock to rock, I looked for my old friends of both sexes, but not found but very few: some were men and had embraced best race, others had been shipped by the cam, and those who remained barely recognized me.
Unable to resist temptation, and compelled by mysterious lure of the sea, whose eloquent rumor has always seemed to me I do not know why, a voice asks sweetly in the bonanza, or call with urgent anger in the storm, undressed in a hurry and jumped on him as he throws himself into the arms of a loved one.
I swam for over an hour, experiencing an indescribable pleasure, and then getting dressed, I continued my ride to the Vine neighborhood, whose uplifting taverns found some of the most famous lost my glorious time.
Talking to them, I threw them a man of mettle, and as that I spent on giving away a few rooms had.
I asked for my uncle, but did not give me any news of his seniority, and then we had chatted a bit, made me a drink of spirit which gave the point with my poor body on land.
During the strongest of my intoxication, I believe those scoundrels laughed at me As they felt like it, but once I calmed a bit, I left the tavern avergonzadísimo.
I wanted to see after the old cathedral, which meant one of the most tender memories of my childhood, and went into it: his compound seemed charming, and I've never walked the aisles temple one with such religious worship.
I think I got the urge to pray, and I did indeed, kneeling at the altar where my mother had put a former voting my salvation.
The character of wax which I thought was my perfect portrait hung there, and took his place with the severity of the holy things, but I looked like an egg to a chestnut.
I prayed on his knees for a while remembering the suffering and death My good mother, who already had God in heaven, but as my head was not good, because of the fumes of cursed spirits, when I got up I fell, and an inveterate sexton nicely put me on the street.
In a few strides I went to the Noodle, where he resided, and my master, as I entered, I was scolded for my long absence.
If that had been missing committed to Dona Francisca, I would not have escaped a severe beating, but my master was tolerant and I never punished, perhaps because he was conscious of being so young like me.
We had gone to reside at the home of the cousin of my master, who was a lady, whom the reader I will describe some prolixity, because it deserves such.
Doña Flora Cisniega was an old lady who insisted on staying young, had more than fifty years, but put in practice every conceivable artifice to fool the world, appearing half that terrifying figure.
Enumerating curls, bows, ribbons, rags, marinades, vermilion, water and other extraneous bodies who attended to the great work of his monumental restoration, would fatigue the most skilled fantasy stay This, then, for pens of novelists, if ever, the great seeker things are not appropriate as beautiful affair.
Regarding his physical, as I have is this the set of his face, which seemed to have set their rosy all the brushes Schools present and past.
I also remember talking with lips made a face, a retreat, a mime, intended, or out to grace the huge mouth, or hide the havoc on the teeth, from whose ranks deserted every year a couple of teeth, but that supine ploy of the presumption was so unfortunate, which formerly disfigured the beautified.
Dressed in luxury, and his hair was spent by almudes powders, and as he had bad meat judging by proclaiming the wide neckline and left transparent so the gauze, every effort was to show off those parts less sensitive to the injurious action time, for which purpose he had a wonderful art.
Doña Flora person was very in love with old things, very devout, but not the holy Dona Francisca mercy on me, and greatly differed from my mistress, as well as hated it naval glories, it was keen for all men of war in general and seafarers in particular.
Inflamed patriotic love, as in the maturity of its existence could not aspire to the warmth of another love, and extremely proud as a woman and a lady Spanish, national sentiment was associated in his mind the roar of cannon, and believed that the greatness of the people is measured by pounds of gunpowder.
Having no children, occupied gossip life of residents, brought in and carried in a small circle of two or three cotorrones like her, and also to its systematic distracted fans to talk about public affairs.
Then there were no newspapers, and political ideas, as well as news circulated of living voice, altering then more than now, it has always been that the word liar printing.
In all large cities, especially in Cadiz, which was then the most educated, had many unemployed persons who were the bearers of the news from Madrid and Paris, and vehicles carried and brought diligent, proud with a mission that gave them great importance.
Some of them, living as a newspaper, were attending the house of that Lady in the afternoon, and this, in addition to good chocolate and best buns, attracted to other anxious to know what happened.
Doña Flora, and he could not inspire a passion formal, or removed off the heavy grief of his fifty years, that role had not exchanged for another any difference as the general center of the news at that time was almost equivalent to the majesty a throne.
Dona Francisca Dona Flora and cordially hated, you understand who consider militarism exalted one and the timidity of the other peaceful.
Therefore, talking with his cousin on the day of our arrival, the old saying: "If you had always ignored your wife, you'd still be a midshipman.
You have done well not to follow your advice and come to the square.
This is shyness, and fear that has the English who come here to the squad combined Last August did not dare to seize the British cruiser sent by Collingwood, and only consisted of three ships.
All our officers are very sorry for being obliged to serve command of such a man.
Gravina was in Madrid to tell Godoy, providing large slights if she did not head of the fittest man squad, but the Minister replied anything, because they dare not solve anything, and as Bonaparte he's involved with the Austrians, while he has not decided ...
Napoleon should entrust the command of the fleet some Spanish, you, for example, Alonsito, giving three or four degrees of Mogollon, which a well-deserved faith you have them ... - Oh, I am not for that - my master said with his usual modesty. - O or Gravina, who say it is as good sailor.
Imagine that when Villeneuve came lacked boats of food and ammunition in the arsenal they are not wanted to.
