What pleasant occupation no more honorable would you hire us? ...
And since this is what I'm allowed to tell you frankly, I must say that besides this study, you can not do without, no other occupation over time still, which of us had used days ago ...
and we have used you, to our great surprise, and has thus lost an excellent use spare hours to kill ...
I thought that, even if you had plenty of money to Tablanca come, was to poke a little curious about the estates of view here, inherited from Don Celso, and the body, we go to say, the deals and contracts with their wearers, and more in this vein, that continues to offer his hand and patriarchal therefore, interesting and colorful for a man like you.
Under the pretext of seeing with own eyes, it leaves jail overwhelming and sad, breathe the fresh air and renewing ideas and spread the spirit shrunk.
With the contemplation of what is seen as well, born communicate thoughts, first of all, with those around us, and give abundant material to reason then if we're alone or to socialize with interest if we are happy together friends who love us well.
Come on, it seems impossible that either by instinct conservation one has come to you one thing practicable and convenient, and has chosen delivered bound hand and foot to the harshness of his jailer.
But still not too late to rectify this mistake.
We will accompany you to these areas as time consent; see and talk about what you care to see and what you want to talk; continue here after talks outside and they are believed or will be discussed and reformed calculation and design, but sometimes resulting castles in the air.
Much of the rest, it will only get through the doors of this house ...
For example, within a few days because we're in the month to do so, will you be arriving the phalanx of his tenants and sharecroppers to pay the "rent" they owe, some in corn, chestnuts or money, others in the three species together, and some with hands in pockets unemployed, for you to provide what they need most.
So you will know, just little, to the foot of limping, and discovering the way which has to reach the very heart of the mystery ...
Amen to that, why do not you go back to their healthy raids before?
There is Chisco, more courageous and proud even then, it has improved Fortunately, and doubly attached to you by the largesse that he has had, there is Chorcos sigh yet, though not as much as the daughter of Facia, for those adventures Rangers, and those few drinks so comforting, and those entertainments as frequent ...
and here I am I finally, for when you have me, and so will tell Don Sabas of itself, and each of the inhabitants of this town ...
When you least expect will you grow from the field the prelude of spring, to find dry land and dotted of enamel flowers, inhale the fragrance of the forests and meadows, and perhaps set in that it is time to move the earth ...
I paint the case, this garden, and even to cultivate better than it has grown until today, and to that end, you call the workers to for the sake of paying the wages, and sends them to dig, and as you are obedient, will you drunk with the smell of turned earth, which is the smell of pleasant odors, and think of new and varied plantings, and even outlined a garden project in the corner warmer ...
in short, which are always chores to the man who insists on having them, but is in the wilds of Tablanca ...
Here he stopped and stared Neluco stared as if waiting for my reply.
I soon give it. - All that picture you have just drawn - I said - I love and seduce me ...
as painting on paper.
I have in my hands remedy for the annoyance of a few days ...
a good season, if you want.
When you can not tack up the mountain, or remove earth my garden, or have business to deal with my settlers, and you are busy in their chores professionals, and Don Sabas in his ministry, and the sleet become unbound, and endless hours and endless nights, what would I do in the wilds of the loft, without nature and the passions of my uncle, or Mr.
mortal sin is to tell a man of talent and experience you, how to bypass the spare hours in life that we all go.
The main thing is basis of occupation: the gaps are filled as she can.
Are you thinking about my own caletre and talking to myself language.
Natural is that I find a suitable companion to my liking ...
And in this case, what do you mean me, sir, matchmaker, how expensive or how consciousness I offer to any woman, and all I know, this penitentiary for reward that I am looking in the attempt to marry her? - Well, that lacked only you! - Said here Neluco her hands to her head, as I had taken them shortly before and the ground itself -.
With a partner that estofa you would not live here in peace holy midweek.
Take care, Don Marcelo - added in a tone of most sincerity - that the woman chosen to share with you the lordship of the house, is considered very honest and gainful about it: this is sufficient, and no doubt that the abundance of this condition at our disposal.
The issue is not rogue stab: it gives time to discourse, to walk and see ...
and what the hell, man! - suddenly exclaimed with unusual vehemence - as we talked and seriously, and not fantasize you see me in what I say, this válgale example is now reminded me: do you want beauty and tenderness and kindness and delicacies feeling, and how you could ask for, minus the refined culture of the classroom, in one piece, in a model woman, even for a man like you?
However closely we have: Lita.
I declared my amazement, and said: - Since you came to Tablanca, is committed to seeing visions that purpose.
I know something that you told me and another has left little to show it.
He once painted the caste and the reasons for the affection we have for them.
What I said then was pure truth, and the best proof of this, what I propose and has caused much astonishment.
Believe me with all that I believe and I believe, would not take my devotion to the about to give a pledge of such high worth, if it were mine in the sense that you had imagined.
Not to mention that even without that dream commitment, God knows what the hostess think of these accounts, if we were listening through the eye of the lock.
Neluco laughed then, and I realized I did not know I carry the joke with the freshness that the case required.
Talk quietly changed the doctor gave shortly after a few laps in the Hall, talking ...
do not remember what trivia, was after a short while, and I remained another Once alone, but strange!
without concern or sadness.
XXXII Boy, did I think the occurrence of Neluco!
It is seen that the increased interest of things does not depend on the things themselves, but their circumstances and accidents.
That same thought expressed aloud by the doctor, had passed in silence through my mind recently before without leaving a trace on it ...
But what was born the stubborn determination that I had since I arrived and met Tablanca the granddaughter of Don Pedro Nolasco, to find out "what was" between her and Neluco, assuming that "there was something ..." and earwigs have to be?
At the end of the day, what mattered to me that I had or not any?
Híceme these questions, because tying their pleas to the effect that had caused me the unexpected occurrence of empecatado mediquillo, it was assumed the existence, in never had thought of certain streams so mysterious and unexplored depths of the heart ...
Anyway, whether or not such flows, coinciding Neluco and I, of its own accord and spontaneous, in a singular and specific point, I mentally sketching the idea, and he as if I had read in the brain, presentándomela later with a veneer of reality, it was more than enough reason to devote full attention to the case I was consecrated.
They do not every day, in similar situations, coincidences of that caliber.
It was that I spent hours dissecting the dead doctor and unexpected hint subjected, impalpable fragments, the force of a scrupulous analysis.
So I to felony suspect the lack of Neluco thought him capable of having targeted The idea, according to the person concerned, or even her mother.
But it took only a moment reflection to dispel suspicion, with shame of having fallen into it.
At all stages of life men have some children, and there is always a 'toy' that comes when and where you least think, that surprises us and we love and we are concerned, and even "makes us good ..." and also stupid.
I say this because not only spent the rest of that afternoon and much of the night circling the Neluco had given me, to "see what was inside," but when I woke up the next day, the first thing that got me between the hulls of the heart was the question of whether or not she was the granddaughter of giant Castañalera and so comely as pretty as the doctor actually had painted me and I had seen when less interested in me then, and with this doubt, the firm intention of going to clarify with myself as I got up ... "Because - what I said - not that I mind two cumin, ultimately, enlightenment, not that touched my soul and nowhere person, but am very interested in the case.
This is a course that could be the best day, and is great need to see, weigh and measure everything carefully and on time to avoid further disappointments and hopeless. " And as I thought I did ...
and even more than I thought, because I care in the clothing as I was careful never there ...
