Women amazed watching him, the men retreated, forming wide circle around him that he cried oaths, waving his hands as if to close to blows with the whole crew.
Le enraged the silence of those people, as if to an unruly crew. - When did Captain Llovet not find in your village men who follow the sea?
The roaring said, as a tyrant who is disobedient, as a God who provides the flight the faithful.
He spoke in Castilian, which was the sign of blind rage. - Present, Captain! "- Shouted at one time a few voices trembling.
And breaking through, appeared in the center of the circle five old, five skeletons gnawed by the sea and storms, former sailors of Captain Llovet, carried by the subordination and affection that creates the danger faced in common.
Yet a little shuffling, others with hopping of a bird, one with eyes wide open, showing the pupils the vagueness of senile blindness, all trembling with cold, his body wrapped in yellow cloth double cap pulled on scarves wraps to the temples.
Of women and children leaving groups, which were thrown on them trying to stop them. - Grandfather! - Shouted grandchildren. - Stop! - Wailed the Bouncers.
And the brave old men, standing as the hacks dying to hear the clarion call of battle, repelled the arms to be tied to their necks and legs, and shouted the voice answering your boss: - Present, Captain!
Sea lions with his idol in front, were opened to the sea happened to take one of the boats.
Red, flushed by the effort, his neck swelled with rage, managed only move the boat and slip a few steps.
But for the first time that people, who adored him, put his hand on him.
The boat, abandoned all help, ran to death on the waves tumbling.
Already close to the rocks, and was going to crash between swirls of foam, and the man who both had spurned such a life, which had fed to the sharks with tribes whole name and wearing a dark scary as a legend, stirring furious, subject a hundred hands, cursing because he was not allowed to risk the existence relief to some unknown, until, exhausted their strength, eventually crying like a child.
An official Reclining on the bed and continuing with vague look roof cracks, journalist Juan Yanez, the only guest room political thought had come that night in the third month of confinement.
The horn had thrown in the yard the long notes of taps; in the corridors rang with monotonous equal steps of the guards, and closed blocks, filled with human flesh, came a rhythmic sound, like the breath of a furnace distant or the breathing of a sleeping giant it seemed impossible that at the old convent so silent, whose ruin was more visible to the harsh light of gas, sleeping a thousand men.
The poor Yáñez, forced to lie at nine, with a perpetual light before the eyes and plunged in a deafening silence that made them believe in the possibility of dead world, thinking how was hard to settle your account with the institutions.
And Yanez, remembering that night the opera season began with Lohengrin, the opera favorite, saw the boxes full of lovely bare shoulders and necks, between flashes with jewels, silks and airy reflexes waving feathers ruffled. - The nine ...
You have now left the swan, and the son of Parsifal will launch its first notes between public expectation hiss ...
I have no bad opera ...
It was a clash of strings that looked like the noise a lot of nails and old keys, and occasionally a weak voice repeated: "Pa. ..
dre ours that is ...
TAS in the heavens ...
In the opinion of the majority, wanted to pretend to be crazy to save it Neck: maybe fourteen months of confinement in a dungeon, waiting for all hours death, had finished with their little brains of fierce instinctual.
Yanez was cursing the injustice of men, who for a few scribbled pages in a bad mood when he was forced to sleep every night, lulled by the delirium a sentence of death, when he heard loud voices and hurried footsteps on the same floor where was his department. - No, not sleep there - cried a voice tremulous and high-pitched -.
and thirty years of service.
Who ask for Nicomedes: everybody knows me, even the newspapers have spoken of me.
And after staying in jail, do you still want me to sleep in a loft or for prisoners serving?
I'm sick and not sleep there.
Bring me a doctor, I need a doctor ...
And the journalist, despite their situation, exhilarated by the intonation reíase effeminate and ridiculous with that of thirty years of service requested by the doctor.
He repeated the murmur of voices as if they were discussing Council were heard steps, each time closer, and opened the door to the room of politicians, sticking out her cap with gold braid. - Don Juan - said the employee with a certain shyness - you have company tonight ...
Dispense you is not my fault, the need ...
And Mr. (well, with an ironic intonation) passed the door, followed by two prisoners, one with a suitcase and a bundle of blankets and sticks, another with a canvas bag which marked the edges of a wide and low box height. - Good evening, sir.
Greeted with humility, with a trembling voice that he did laugh Yáñez, and take your hat off discovered a small head, cane and carefully shaved.
It was a fifty obese, ruddy; layer seemed to fall off their shoulders, and a pack of charms dangling from a thick chain gold pattered on his belly at the slightest movement.
His eyes were small reflections steel blue, and the mouth appeared oppressed by a curved and drooping mustache like two question marks. - You dispense - said, sitting down - I will bother you much, but it's not my fault.
And the pot-bellied bourgeois showed obsequious, humble, as if asking forgiveness for having usurped his place in prison.
And of course ideas danced imagination loose, just outlined, which seemed to seek and pursue complete a thought.
The man hesitated, but finally gave him the quizzical expression energetic, and bent head affirmatively.
Then the silence was long and arduous.
Some prisoners placed man's bed in a corner of the room.
Yáñez stared at his companion accommodation, who stood with bowed head, as shying away from their eyes.
When the bed was made and the prisoners retreated, closing the door with the employee exterior lock, continued the painful silence.
Finally, one subject made an effort and spoke: - I'll give you a bad night, but it's not my fault: they have brought me here.
I resisted, knowing that you are a decent person will feel my presence as the dark side may have occurred in this house.
Also, you do not look bad person.
I'm the dean of the class and tell on my list to political row.
I have the pride of having always fulfilled my duty.
The will now be one hundred two.
There are many, right?
Even the veterans have been presidio that by me at the last moment, he calmed down and said: "Nicomedes, I am pleased that be you. " The official view was cheering in kind and curious attention paid him Yáñez.
He was taking land: every time he spoke with more disengage. - I have also my little inventor - continued -.
The reporter jumped out of bed as if to flee. - No, thank you very much.
Blow this cleaning time talking recently, but Yanez seemed impregnated human fat juice of one hundred who formed his list. - And are you satisfied with the profession? - Asked to make him forget the desire to look their inventions. - What a relief! ...
The manager to meet the justice it seems to me someone and deserves some consideration.
But these all times are hypocrisy.
Cries the prosecutor asking for a head on behalf of who knows what things respectable, and all seems well, I'm off after his bidding, and I spit and insult me.
If I go into an inn, I put in the door just know me in the street all shun my touch, and even in court me pay to throw his feet as if I were an officer just like them, as if my money was not on the budget ...
There are those who annoy me recently: the past, and scarcely seem Friends which I left yesterday, but the old ones from my early days, when I was still excited and I felt awkward, those are real demons that, just see me alone in the dark parade on my chest in an endless procession, oppress me, choking me, touching my eyes with edge of their hopas.
They follow me everywhere, and as I grow old are more frequent.
When I got into the attic began to see them poke through the darkest corners.
For this reason she a doctor: I was sick I was afraid at night, I wanted light, company. - How long are you alone? - No, I have family there in my little house on the outskirts of Barcelona, ??a family that gives no trouble: a dog, three cats and eight chickens.
They do not understand is why people respect me, me like as if I were a man like others.
Never I happened to kill a chicken, I faint to see bloodshed.
My wife died six years ago.
Do not think that was one of those drunken sluts and brutish, which is the role that novels reserves the female executioner.
It was a girl of my people, with whom he married upon returning from service.
We had a son and a daughter; bread enough, much misery, and what do you want?
youth and a certain brutality of nature I brought to the office.
At first hacíame grace the hatred of the people, I was proud to inspire terror and disgust.
The best my life: five or six years there was no work.
My savings were converted into a house in outside and the neighbors appreciated Don Nicomedes, a man sympathetic employee at the hearing.
The boy, an angel of God, a worker, Miss Prude and quiet, was in a commercial house; girls - how much I regret not having her picture here! - the girl, who was a seraph, with big eyes blue and blond braids, thick as my arm, and when they ran around our little garden resembled one of those ladies who go to operas, not going to Barcelona with his mother without some young came upon her footsteps.
Had a serious boyfriend, a good boy who would soon to be a doctor.
Things she and her mother, I pretended not to see anything with that kind blindness parents that are reserved for the last time.
Nicomedes's voice was increasingly shaky, his little blue eyes were glazed.
The neighbors closed doors and windows to see me, and although the city is great, I always knew in the streets and insulted me.
Saw in bed, his face contorted, greenish, she so pretty!
and white-spotted tongue.
The next day was no longer living.
He loved with all his soul to mediquín, and I read the letter in which the boy said goodbye forever over who was the daughter.
Spent all day at home, people fleeing in a corner of the little garden, sad and neglected since the death of the girl. "What do you think, Anthony?" He asked. "Dad, I think of Anita." The poor deceived me.
Thought of him as we had cruelly wrong for a while thinking ourselves equal to others, and committing the insolence of want to be happy.
The thud was terrible: unable to get up.
Antonio disappeared. - And nothing has known you from your son? - Said Yanez, interested in the grim history. - Yes, after four days.
The poor old woman was slowly, as if tirasen guys it from above, and I, the bad, the hopeless, I am left here alone all alone, without recourse even to drink, because if I get drunk, they come, You know?
them, my persecutors, to go mad with the flutter of black hopas as if they were huge crows, and I get to die ...
