They say the Board of Seville has assembled a great army with troops at San Roque.
It is as it were ...; you pose here is Gibraltar, as is San Roque near here. - The D.
But what I understand, and the experience I acquired in those terrible wars, I dare say that the Andalusia army comes upon Madrid, and if you do the same that of D.
Gregorio de la Cuesta, you judge the shock that will pass the French.
We must keep the secret very carefully, gentlemen, and you girls, beware of going very well telling these things when they go to sewing, because it can reach the ears of the Grand Duke of Berg ...
I think the following things happen: Andalusia's army will come to the Channel, the French will to beat them, leaving free Madrid, where you will enter D.
Gregorio de la Cuesta, which, if followed to the south, they sting the rear by Tarancón, and at the same time as there will take you back was the Tagus, seeing the French attacked by either side, by force will have to fall the river, where they will drown. - How you know this man!
It is a wonder that in this way can advertise movements the enemy.
And no doubt: this has to happen. - And how the uprising is general - said Fernandez - can not go everywhere.
I have understood that it is very upset because Napoleon does not want to become king of Spain. - Angelito!, Since it requires very little to say. - And as it seems that rule of king of Naples it is a D.
Joseph, whom they say also likes that ... - Is known to be fans of the family. - What you should do Mr.
Fernandez - lumbermen said - is to go to any of these armies, had no doubt where to look, and who knows if we would make general overnight. - I'm no good - said the Great Captain -.
This now is silly, and if not, you'll see how at the drop of a rooster is all finished. - But the army of Andalusia, is it true, or is it pure conjecture to you?
Whether we realize it at once. - It is true, gentlemen.
I think Santiago Fernandez has reason to know what makes an army that does not do.
When our generals begin to say "Over here you I ', and I will put you in the know, day by day.
At this point came when he entered Santorcaz, and as soon as he saw the honest people formed the audience of good Fernández, began to march in a bad mood, because flamasón presence of that was quite nasty to everyone in the house. - Great news, great news I bring, Mr.
Gonzalo Fernandez de Cordova - exclaimed from the door -.
Be poor chance, then, and you It's their loss, for they know not what happens ...
I really did not know what you just said, but back in the office I heard other stuff I do not know if it will sound While the ears of the rabble.
Luis to count, to see if taste the annealing is removed? - What news are these? - Nothing, not much.
When the French know them, you see how happy she gets ...
And they have given in arming the peasants, the Castilla same as in Catalonia and in Valencia and Andalusia ...
But that is worthless are men and icing sugar paste, and I say no bullets, with salivary destroy the French. - What do you know everything comes down to the Junta of Seville is forming an army San Roque troops, who commands Brown, and Granada, which are orders Reding?
Well, that knows everything Madrid. - Mira, Fernandez - Dona Gregoria said informally - you are wrong to reveal what you know as good a conduit, because I am not dull to know that what our army does not be said.
And if not, for instance: if you, you're aware of everything, because of your great tino for war, you discover what the army of Andalusia and reaches the ears of French can take advantage of the news, and then ... - That must be seized, woman, or what do you know about these things!
On the contrary, I want that Mr.
de Santorcaz go with the story.
It is sad thing to have come to that end by the blunders of our kings, but once here, no choice but submit to what Providence has sought to make us.
Spain can not resist invasion, because if would resist a miracle, a supernatural feat ever.
Condemned Napoleon and to be seen sitting on his throne to a king of the imperial family, the most sane is resigned to it with the consciousness of having deserved. - Spain should be French, that Spain will of Napoleon! - Said the Grand Master, on in violent anger -.
de Santorcaz, you are an insolent, you're a foul-mouthed, you has no respect for my gray hair.
Ya, what can you expect from a shyster skull, as you, who abandoned his family extranjis going to learn bad habits?
Woman, you're with that calm and no anger buffa like me?
And rising from his seat, told Santorcaz majestic gesture with the door of the room; more like D.
Luis did not have humor to leave, because every day the same scene was repeated to no avail, getting ready to eat quietly, letting it fade away, as effectively vanished, without bloodshed, the wrath of his honorable friend.
growled a little food Santiago, but prudence and discretion of his wife avoided a collision could have had dire consequences.
IV What I had passed on May 20, if memory serves me.
I was moving slowly in my convalescence, and in a few days and I found myself strong enough to stand up and give some great walks through the corridors of the house because the house of the Great Captain was to only release the long corridor, whose walls were opened up twenty doors numbered hostels in many families.
Worse than my body was my soul, full of troubles, of apprehension and anguish, so sorry for terrible memories as distressing presumptions so, my thoughts ran to the past to the future, alternatively, seeking in vain for a little peace.
The death of the priest in Aranjuez, still forming in my soul a great void, I was less sensitive than might appear at first sight, because I like traffic conceptualizing he had brought a new saint to the phalanges of Paradise, I considered my friend in the true place, and not far from us that if he could forsake invocábamos.
As for Agnes, did not doubt that someone was in power to protect it on behalf of the relatives of his mother, and although this belief had no information that the relationship Juan de Dios amazed, I confirmed it growing, based on background I miss my readers for being known, and the sordid greed of licensed Lobo, character highly paid to seize the girl and deliver, through a good reward, who wanted to possess.
All my desire was to hard reset to go out and when I got it, I had the pleasure of letting me know all my friends as a true resurrection, or soul of another world is back with a body to collect arrears.
You have no idea of ??the aspect then offered Madrid if they do not tell people walked all flustered and distracted, sometimes fearful, sometimes making efforts to conceal joy.
The French hate the hatred was not: it was a fanaticism that I have not met after no example, a feeling that occupied the whole hearts by leaving room for other one, so that's like the love, the love itself, and even dare I say to love God, adapted and subjected to secondary phenomena great abhorrence inspired the executioners of the people of Madrid.
To these alone were seen everywhere: his presence made to stop or speed transients, and this deviation was so extraordinary that even seemed concerned themselves of deep regret and watching them morose and sullen, feeling that the ground will burn the soles of the feet.
Had filled trenches and batteries Retirement, and to see at all his pride and presumption of the invaders, there was nothing to lead the ride to the East, and are found in large groups around the bars, or strolling along the road of Aragon.
No Spanish was heading there, unless the rogues, who, then as now, liked to poke its nose everywhere.
Led to my curiosity, I approached Retreat, and also toured other sites to the south, also busy positions advantageous.
Madrid inside the shops were deserted, as everyone gathered to request or report news gathered in hidden places, is worthy of note that even then began to give its first signs of life the secret societies, though I did not see any, I say this only with reference to vague rumors.
As the desire for news on the lifting of the provinces was a fever that were not exempt or children or the elderly, or women, when it was known that D.
John Doe had received a letter Andalusia, Galicia and Catalonia, the house was filled with friends, even strangers is allowed to loudly invade not wait to tell them the big event.
Sacábanse copies of letters that spoke of the Board of Seville and the uprising of the troops San Roque, and those copies circulated with a rapidity that would envy the modern Press periodically.
Every day and every hour there was talk of the officers who had fled Madrid join armies or Blake Cuesta, and when faced with a military or a young countryman of good size and vigor, is not it to another question: "Do you when are you going? "The families of the victims had forgotten to pray for the dead, and thought to equip the living.
Shortage of laborers and artisans, because of the slums departing daily many men to swell the items and Mancha Toledo, and despite the brutal side of the French General, and missing weapons in the houses, and the fugitives departed empty-handed.
The invaders, who watched the hatred of the fearful suspicion capital which has suffered its devastating effects, not allowed, being so great in number and strength, which is manifested what the locals thought and felt, but even so, how many songs, many jácaras, romances and tenths suddenly sprang the popular vein, and threatening to resentment, and Zahir with spicy jokes that no one knows but by the abusive name of the scoundrel!
At the bottom of this great upheaval, among many misgivings, had a secret joy, for as day after day came news of new surveys, all the French thought and placed on the verge of embarrassing retreat.
That joy, that confidence, that blind faith in the superiority of the heterogeneous and discordant popular forces that wait provided, that not believing in defeat, that no matter who cured the collapse, were Because of the definitive victory in such a long war, and it may be said that the strategy, strength and tactics, which are human things can not and may never anything against the enthusiasm that is divine.
As was natural, news, the survey was wildly exaggerated, and the popular delusions saw thousands of men where there were only hundreds.
When the news came from Bayonne were subjected to systematic contempt, and the provisions of the palace of Marras, as well as Cortes ridiculous call in the city of Adour, and the lawsuit tribute to some great tributes to Bonaparte, gave fuel to bloody satire.
When some said that Madrid king would come from Napoleon's brother, was standing for the most ingenious improvisations the epigrammatic genre.
All gatherings, which then was great, because society is not yet spilled cafes, were, shall we say, real clubs where deaf and terrible beating conspiracy national.
It conspired with desire, with the news, with suspicion, with hyperbole, with satire, with truth and lies, with weeping tribute to the dead and prayers for the triumph of the living.
V This was Madrid in late May 1808, before the first cannon shots sounded Cabezón and the first shots of the Bruch.
Having said this, let me talk a little about myself, basis for that misfortune is always echo throughout discreet and sensitive person, I think I'm not sack of straw in the eyes of my readers, and that some interest will inspire painful trances of my stormy life.
I need to also explain why I started my causes Trip to Andalucia in May and June, and if all of a sudden I submit Despeñaperros way in Santorcaz unknown company, you would be correct not to explain the motives or journey so dangerous, nor my sudden accommodation with this singular man.
It is therefore the case that, not satisfied with the news about Agnes gave me Juan de Dios, I tried to find the truth and had the happy idea, rather, the inspiration, to appear home of the Marquise, who did not find, but Divine Providence wanted a servant, known mine from the famous night of the performance, came out to meet me, and after show very obsequious, satisfy my curiosity on that point.
As I said, the same day 3 May there appeared a man with green goggles, which led within a litter at a tearful young and seemingly ill.
Not finding the woman, asked by his brother, with which he had to confer more than two hours.
After bye, leaving the madamita at home.
The brother of Mrs.
Marquise, who was none other than that holiday diplomat who met in October 1807, started the day 4 to Cordoba to join his sister and niece, and anything weird! - server told me that strange - it took the young girl. - "So that now are all in Córdoba? - I asked. - Yes, and according to reports, believe not come until these things are gone.
The man one of the green goggles had been some days here and sometimes Ms.
Condesa, other aunt, received him.
Bad man looks. - What did the young resistance when they tried to take it? - If you looked dead, what resistance could I do?
As we had to load two to put in the car ...
I do not know if what I heard and mean time draw the attention of my readers, but what yes they have to cause surprise, what I say surprise, big surprise, is knowing that I dared to defy the wrath of the Wolf degree, the same Wolf of yore, not hesitating to risk it all to clarify what disturbed me so deeply.
Not wanting to appear even in shadow by Sal hated street, I sought back in the Mayor's House and Court, where with I thought surely find him, and to the point where I was ...
Well at first I saw, Echomen arms around his neck, showing great interest in me, and not only asked me news about my health, but tell him he asked me some details my squad and for him miraculous resurrection.
I remained stunned, but not quiet so unusual softness assuming that would work its elegant cunning and preparation of a new coup against me, but when I asked him the state in which the process was famous, he replied that no one thought such a thing because as the French were friends of the Prince of Peace, not desirable to disturb the servers and friends of the latter. - No I - said - that His Highness the Grand Duke amosque.
That was a joke, and Having A on, the point would have been released.
Ah, well understood that kept Requejo treasure in your home !
