Amalia's name in vain.
Only when she put her hands on the girl uttered a cry of terror and put her head on his chest.
Between the Concha and Mary laundress had exploded, with regard to these punishments, serious Brawls.
Mary was naturally compassionate and hurt him the martyrdom of the girl, but not knew them all, because Amalia tried to guard against the servants, except Concha.
If not language was loose, not to censor the bit not in the kitchen of his wife's behavior. - Honey, this is worse than the Inquisition.
If there you have it punishes prize that this will make a working woman, honest!
Someday I will thank you. - Yes, thanks!
After all, Mary, unable to endure with patience the spectacle, took the decision to leave.
There was a day a lady, and the Grilled excuse that it hurt asked for the bill.
Not concealed from the real Amalia reason, it was aware of their murmuring.
Concealed, however. - Yes, daughter, you understand that the ironing bored.
I'm also below par for days.
Fighting life with a sick and now, to finish off the party, get out that little girl, whom she founded my hopes, so ungrateful and wicked!
Mary hesitated. - You see, ma'am ...
Grandee's wife realized that if he continued on the subject, the laundress was going to say something unpleasant and hastened to cut the conversation, paying your account and dismissing with affability.
Did not prevent this that the home say in confidence, in a house where he was to serve what was going on Quinones.
Soon enough people were aware of the cruelties were that the child was committed.
The Count de Onis, to escape the public's curiosity, that bothered him greatly, and even more to get rid of Amalia, had moved, without telling it, was already near one month at the Farm.
There had written to his ex-mistress, but All day I thought so, to inform him of its decision.
Such was the fear Valencian had come to inspire, the pen fell from his hands every time you take for news of his marriage.
And let slip the days continued hesitation, thinking concern at the anger that she would take over, hoping, like all weak, in that some unforeseen event commitment deliver him.
One way to break the relationship without fight, without agreement, without explanation, it was really original, but very typical of his character.
However, when she thought she felt a sudden restlessness, alterábanse his nerves, and began to walk around the room with visible agitation.
A vague and sad foreboding oppressed his heart.
Love got frantic Fernanda inspire you had forgotten some of Josefina.
At certain times rebuked himself with bitterness even thought would not get married to Fernanda happiness if I could not see his daughter every day.
It understood that this was impossible to continue Amalia power.
So dreamed of wresting: imagined with pleasure blundering projects of abduction, away with her and Fernanda to anywhere in the world peaceful and enjoyable.
It happened that one of these days of hesitation in the count, was in the morning at home Michelle Quiñones, the more nervous and violent of the four sprites for the Elderly.
It was in order Amalia ask for advice about a dress she was planning for the next dance the casino.
The visits at this time were rare, but as the noble family kept intimate Retired relationship with the lady, the maid did not hesitate in passing to the case above, where it was. - What importunate, right?
Honey, is the time when you can catch the single - entered funny saying with the fickleness that characterized the young shoots of Matthew.
Amalia was received warmly, but showing some surprise and concern that Michelle did not notice.
The issue was overcome completely wipes their spirits.
Amalia took his girlfriend to the balcony.
But they had not spoken many words, when it believed receive a weak whimper in the same room.
He turned and saw in a corner Josephine knees and tied up alongside the toilet, in such a way that would be impossible to get up without lifting the heavy furniture, something far beyond his strength.
Amalia was quick to explain. - This girl is getting so bad that I clarified to tie me for being still.
Michelle, whom he hated punishment, shut up.
Quiñones's wife continued talking with affected indifference of her dress, but in spite of how much the item should be an interested party the girl was quite distracted and threw frequent glances at the girl.
And looked a good time with extraordinary firmness.
He came back to tie the talk, but his voice was noticeable slight alteration.
Micaela was more and more distracted.
The outrage was going up into the throat, and had concluded to do some nasty warning to his friend if the girl had not complained again. - Well, it is seen that we do not have to leave in peace - said the lady to smile .-- Efforts will to give you loose.
It was there and unleashed a long time using it, the rope was so many times around their small body like a busy trunk.
But the time to get up the girl, he could not.
No doubt a few hours ago I was in that painful position, the muscles were stagnant. - Top stringers! - He joked, as he helped her up.
Micaela watched the scene with amazement; flashes of anger crossed his eyes. - You did not like the posturita, eh?
Go downstairs and ask for a kiss Concha.
The girl, upon hearing these words, was densely pale, remained motionless some moments, and finally went to the door unsteadily.
Before reaching it, Michelle, that closely followed the hearing, noted that had their eyes covered with tears.
Amalia resumed the conversation with rags.
Not three minutes had passed when they reached the office, remote and off, shouting of the child.
Micaela quivered nodded toward the door to hear better.
Amalia alzose strongly from his chair and went to close the door.
The screams ceased to be heard, but young nervous and not heard the words of Amalia.
A great uneasiness came over her; subíanle vapors in the face and the awful thought shameless desire that evil, to call Jewish, rogue, varlet.
Everything that happened in that house is represented by blow.
Jealousy first, then the news of the marriage of Louis dropping like a bomb then the miserable revenge on the daughter, the father's abandonment.
He knew the unforgiving nature of Valencia.
But what would move with insults then?
Produce a serious scandal and the toss of the house.
Micaela, despite his violent temper, had a compassionate heart.
What worried her most was doing something for the unfortunate creature.
And he was calm enough to hide a little and think the best match was telling especially just the count, who will likely ignore such dastardly revenge.
When he was in the street felt the need to vent his chest.
He thought of Maria Josepha who lived nearby and who professed to foundling tender affection.
He entered his house agitated trembling, before uttering a word sank down on a couch, giving air to the tip blanket. - Ugh!
Has the heart of a hyena. - But what? - Asked in amazement, burning with curiosity, the buxom shrewd.
Then the daughter of Retired nervously told him, stammered with anger, the situation they had found Joseph, the pallor of the child after the strange invitation her godmother, who had heard the screams as if she was giving torment.
Maria Josefa immediately joined his curse to the young.
They pulled out all the evidence evil they knew Grandee's wife and decided to give part of what was happening the count, but find out before more details.
To do this, that same afternoon, Mary began to talk to the ironer, which for several days had left home Quiñones.
Concluded however, to give rein to the tongue and refer the thousand iniquities that Mrs.
Thought in part to the court, but on completely alienating the beast Valencia (which in his honor that is not worried much in such moments), they understood that would be of little or no results.
Quiñones was the most powerful people in the population; D.
Peter, head of the ruling party in the province, the authorities, workmanship or under their influence.
Everything would plug immediately and would remain as before.
But this was to then in the House.
Furthermore, although all or nearly all, knew the secret of the girl, not could've been warned.
After some discussion, decided to write the following letter, signed only by María Josefa, "Mr.
Conde de Onis.
My dear friends: With due Subject to inform you that the girl picked up by our friends Quiñones lords, and therefore all we care who is the object in the house of cruel treatment.
I we have a duty to intervene to cease.
You tell me what to do and me as a woman does not reach me.
If you want to know the details of the martyrdom of the child Maria the maid go a few days ago stopped serving at home D.
Yours faithfully friend, Josefa María Hevia. " Luis crumpled the letter in his hands clenched.
All the blood rushed to his face.
No realize what had left the house and almost took the road race Lancia reaching it in minutes.
That vague and awful premonition that I felt we performed the end.
Amalia retaliated fiercely.
The hidden meaning of the letter was that: they were going to him as the father of Joseph and cause of their misery.
Not knowing what course to take, went home for reflection.
In it he used to find Where was Mary and pass a message to him to come and see him.
Do not mistake the ironer on the subject of this appeal.
As he was able to attended the meeting, and after would make him promise not to use its name for nothing, he realized fact the work was going on the innocent girl.
Escuchábala pale, haggard, unable to suppress the violent and frequent beatings of his heart.
When he came to narrate certain heinous and terrible details, the count began to pace the room like a caged animal, to pull each other's hair hair, scratching his face, sending roars of anger.
Left alone, a thousand ideas, all foolish, is run over in the mind.
I wanted to go home forcibly Quinones and take her daughter, wanted to wring the neck that wretched woman, wanted to tell all to D.
Peter wanted to report the matter to court and put in a dungeon to the infamous.
Fortunately his hits were so violent and short.
He ran home and told his fiancee what happened sobbing, pleaded with her first time.
The good Fernanda joined him to tears, moved by the fate of the unfortunate creature and the pain of her lover.
Fernanda managed at last to persuade it appeals to soft media.
Think about getting something by force was foolish.
The Count even confessing his fault, had any rights over the child.
A scandal was useless.
No servant would dare to testify against her mistress, and things would be worse than before.
At last count it was decided to write a letter to his former lover. "At this point just say that our Josephine, our beloved Josephine, is suffering Your hand incredible tortures.
I think it is a vile slander.
I know your genius, which is alive and fiery, but noble.
I can not atribuirte such cowardice.
I write only to make sure that this angelic creature is still the charm of your life.
If not, tell me and seek a means of passing my power.
I guess you aware of the way I'm going to give.
No I want to say anything.
It was inevitable sooner or later.
Anyway you can be sure that my remorse is sweetened by the sweet memories of the years I have loved you.
Write me a kind word. " XIV Capitulation.
Josefina is drawn.
He spoke very little, not ever laughed.
When left alone, she sat in every corner and stood motionless staring at a fixed point, or are approaching the balcony and wrote on the glass with your finger.
Sometimes, in spite of so much pain, childlike nature claim their rights.
Saw the cat slowly approached her with the right tail, the spine arched, requesting their weak touch with snoring.
We let down on the floor, called him, brought him to her and was beginning pasearle hands to the back, to scratch your head and tickle your back, while whispering in his ear words of affection, a cuddly animal Twitter welcomed with spasms of delight. "I love you I love you.
And I could always give you what you would fish well, because I know what you like, right, rich mine?
But thou shalt not steal anything, you know that you're stuck.
No more urine in the bed of Manin.
Mira you're going to kill him said the other day in the kitchen.
And take many mice to sponsor you want and not get kicked out of home. " The cat, ecstasy whispering in the depths of the throat thousand yeas complacent, and rubbed against her increasingly sticky caramel.
The girl reached her back carrying him embrace, pressing her against his chest, kissed him, and sometimes forgotten its martyrs, shed tears of tenderness.
But any rumor in the next room made him a start up with terror in his eyes, threw the cat away from him and expected him to come still.
As a result of the continuing fears that contracted with strong experienced irregular movements his bladder and caused involuntarily escaped him on many occasions the urine.
This was thereby placing themselves outside the irascible Concha
