The difficulty is to acquire one way or another, the improvement is the work time.
Undoubtedly, the first sensations of sight would not have the accuracy to which arrive after a long period, but their own is verified touch.
This made perfect sense like everyone else, you also need their education by decirio so, and those born blind that by dint of concentration and work, come to possess him with an astonishing delicacy, give us proof of this truth patent.
THE BLIND Cheselden. [75.] Cheselden The blind, who speaks Condillac in confirmation of their views, presents no phenomena in which they can support.
It was this blind a boy of 13 to 14 years, to whom Cheselden, a distinguished London surgeon, made the operation of cataract, first in one eye after the other.
Before operation, make out day of the night, and bright, even knew what white, black and red.
The most notable events, and more relationship to the question before us, were as follows. 1. ยบ when he began to see, believed that the objects touching the outside surface of your eye.
This suggests that the view alone can not make us judge of distance, but rather discussed the thing you see that the argument is inconclusive.
No one would claim that the view the first time of exercise, can also communicate clear and precise ideas, the experience that when we used to compare the different views.
As in the hearing takes place at the touch, a blind man with his long habit of being guided by their own sensations of touch in many of its movements, to know the position reaches and distances of objects with admirable precision.
Assuming a private man sense of touch, and suddenly it becomes, not judge rightly of objects this sense, but after having exercised.
Experience teaches us that perfection Touch runs a large scale: the blind see in their highest point, and it is probable that the minimum of its perfection in the first moments of his tenure, would come to view the act of falling in cataracts, also objects are presented in confusing without the subject that experienced, could fully appreciate their differences before the practice would have trained to discern and classify.
With respect to the distances it is noteworthy that the Cheselden blind, was not only private the habit of knowing, but he had otherwise.
Because she was not completely blind, he perceived the light through cataracts, and if was very rich, until he to distinguish between white, black and red, was presented as attached to the eye, which can form idea watching what happens to us closing the eyes when too bright.
It follows that to see, due to imagine that the new vision was the same the background, and therefore did not happen other than a simple change of object.
Neither knew how to conceive the house could seem larger than his cabinet, even though I knew from experience that this was smaller than that.
From these facts you infer Condillac confirmation of your system, I wonder about Similar data proposes to found a philosophy.
I submit to the consideration of the reader the following observations. [76.] This is a 13 to 14 years, thus lacking all spirit of observation, and of course, express the greatest disorder impressions experienced in a situation so unique and so new.
The organ of sight exercising for the first time, had to be extremely weak, and therefore serve as a very incomplete for sensory functions.
At every step experience making a transition to sudden darkness to light, if this is very much alive, just spotted objects, and we see everything with a lot of confusion, what was to happen to the poor child the age of 13 opened his eyes for the first time?
According Cheselden referred to herein, the objects were brought before the blind in such confusion that not distinguished, whatever the shape and magnitude.
This confirms what I just stated, namely, that the confusion depended largely, if not all, of the organ produced wrong impressions, because if these had been as convenient, would have distinguished the boundaries between different colors, because the simple case of feeling, seeing is distinguished.
We noted that the hearing did not recognize that he had known objects by touch: but this only proves that not having been able to compare the two sets of feelings, did not know which corresponded to the impressions one another.
By touch conoceria bodies spherical, but as ignorant of the impression that an area to the eye, it is clear that introduce a ball that had thumbed a thousand times, I could not even suspect that object seen was the same object touched.
This leads me to another observation that I think very important. [77.] Experiments were collected from the mouth of a man who spoke in a language did not know, such was the boy who was to express their feelings in visual order
