The act of my will is exercised with the same efficiency as before, who has made my will is impotent?
Although this can not be doubted that there was any link between the two phenomena, since infinite often been observed that one followed the other, what can not be explained by mere chance.
Not being as the one causes the other in the internal order, must have a dependency on the outer order: that is, if I am discussing, but continued to exist the cause that produced the one, debióse to terminate the connection that this case had to that produced the other, and that was in effect, pulling the cord, the sound did not come for the simple reason that the bell had been removed.
This is understandable, having external causes of which are called sensations: but if these are reduced to simple internal phenomena can not be indicate a reasonable reason. [29.] And it is noteworthy that when I explain the lack of succession of these sensations previously they were always together, I can resort to many that are very different phenomena internal, as such they have no relationship or similarity, and can only have some correspond to link in external objects.
When looking for why not ring the bell to explain the reason that has altered the regular order in my appearance, I can think of several causes, which now also considered as mere appearances, or phenomena Internal: I can receive the following sensations: the broken cord, the cord embroiled the broken bell, the bell removed, the bell without badajuelo; to all these sensations I can I refer the lack of sound, and refer to them will be the most irrational of the world if considered as a mere internal events because, as sensations are nothing like, and I argue rationally only if to each of these feelings do you match an object external alone enough to interrupt the connection of the act of pulling the cord, with air vibration produces sound. [30.] From these considerations follows: 1 º.
That considering our feelings as purely internal phenomena are divided into two very different kinds, some which depend on our will, other independent of it; some unrelated to each other, or variables in their relations, enjoyed the experience, others subject to a certain connection that we can not destroy or alter. 2 º.
So the existence of any modification of the latter class of cases from are not we, of causes beyond our control, and which are outside of us.
Then the instinct that drives us to relate these feelings to external objects, is confirmed for the reason, then the testimony of the senses is admissible in the court of philosophy as we are assured of the reality of the objects.
This is demonstrated in a way the existence of bodies, since that review philosophically the concept of body, found in him a different thing from our be, and whose presence causes us such and such sensations.
The intimate nature of bodies is unknown to us, and even when they knew this would be useless for our purpose, they do not treat them the idea that in this case would form the philosopher, but which are the generality of men.
I think the latter can be achieved: I am going to try. [33.] Our feelings do not come immediately for a free cause, unless both the experience, such as that occurs, are subject to fixed laws, to a necessity.
We convinced of this if we think that putting under certain conditions, we can not help feeling a certain feeling, and that lacking such conditions, we can not experience it: it proves that we and the being that causes us the impression, we subject to an order necessary.
Were it not so, we would not produce the sensation owners or even by certain conditions as the cause because it would not be subject to a law but his free will, would happen a thousand times than we would disagree with his, and therefore would not exist the impression that we wanted.
We know that after experiencing the sensation of touch with who we think that a body dense cover our eyes, we see, and we want more is not impossible to produce in us the sensation we call seeing, on the contrary, removing the feeling of body contact dense, and in time and place for us is impossible not to experience the sensation to see different objects, this proves that in this part we are subject to a necessity; but also proves that being that causes us feelings is subject to a similar need, and to put the condition of covering the eyes, a thousand times to our whim, disappears also a thousand times stronger, and given the condition of uncovered and open them in a lighted area, and repeating over and over again to test our fancy, a thousand times it is also the feeling: the same, if we leave it all in the same state, varied according to our taste, if we change place, or various objects that he has.
Then there was us with a set of beings subject to necessary laws, which produce our feelings. [34.] It is also noteworthy that the influence they exert on us not only did not result in them of choice or spontaneity, but even presented as having activity own.
The picture on the wall would give me the same feeling a thousand times, if a thousand sometimes stared at him, and unless the erosion of time, would be producing the same by eternity.
It is also clear that these beings are subject to our action, as they apply to different we own them ways to produce different impressions.
I'm playing a ball, and continuity of the sensation of a smooth body, hard and spherical, assures me that it is a same being the place for some time, and yet, within this range, with view receipt of the same object multiple sensations, introducing you to the light in different ways. [35.] The subjection of these beings to necessary laws, not just with respect to the sensations, but rather is a link with each other.
The connection of the impressions that they receive, is dependent effect that some have compared to other: so that to produce a particular impression, we use many times an object, not used to this, when considered in itself, but provides us getting what we want in action to another.
The draw back a curtain has nothing to do with a magnificent landscape; yet many times but when we do not provide the nice view: then the relationship is not to serve the feelings but of its objects: connection with these is that which induces us to avail ourselves of the one to get the other.
