Ah-Fe rang the bell, a servant appeared, glanced at the basket and reluctantly admitted like a pet, annoying but necessary.
Ah-Fe rose silently the stairs, he went into the front room, left the basket and waited in the doorway.
A woman sitting at the cool window light grayish, with a girl in the skirt, rose with indifference and went to the visitor.
Obviously, she did not recognize him because he started to count the pieces of clothing she wore.
But the girl, examining it with curiosity, uttered suddenly a sudden cry of joy: - But Mom, if John!
Is the Chinese we had in Fiddletown.
Hurtful eyes Ah-Fe shone for a moment with electric shock.
The girl slapped and grabbed his clothing.
The Chinese said: - Yo, John, Ah-Fe, all is one.
As there was for him the affection that stoked the perception of Carolina, could not distinguish even their peers.
At one point recalled the last sentence, and dim suspicion of danger imminent, asked when he had left his master's house. - Oh, long time!
I do not like Fiddletown.
San Flisco like.
But he said: - I request not to tell anyone that I have seen.
And he took his alms.
The Chinese, without looking at him, saw that it was nearly empty, without scanning the room, noted that it was poorly furnished, and without removing his gaze from the ceiling, he noticed that the lady and wore Carolina with the greatest poverty.
However, I must confess that the long fingers pressed to Ah-Fe half a dollar sign that it handed him.
Then began to search the folds of her blouse through strange contortions and grimaces.
After a few moments, he pulled from God knows where a child apron, which he placed on the basket, saying - Forgetting a laundry room.
And started again for registration.
Finally, success crowned their efforts apparently, took his right ear a piece of tissue paper rolled patiently.
Carefully unrolled, finally discovered two gold coins of twenty dollars, which handed the lady of Galba. - Leave your money on bluló [14] Fiddletown, I find coins.
I bring to you shortly. - But I do not any money left over Boureau, John! - Said presented with sincere amazement.
Will of another person.
Ah-Fe was troubled for a moment.
He took his hand to Madame de Galba proffered money and moved quickly to pick up their stuff. - No, no, I did not return.
I know: God damn thief take forty dollars, to jail.
I do not return.
You leave money up bluló Fiddletown.
I bring money.
I do not carry cash again.
Lady Clara doubted that in their headlong flight had left the money as he said, but either way it was, had no right to endanger the safety of this Chinese honored by refusing, so he said: - Okay, John.
I will stay with him, but you have to see me again.
Lady Clara hesitated.
For the first time it happened that a man could wish to see another but her. - To me, y. ..
The Ah-Fe face brightened.
Even uttered a short laugh ventriloquist without moving a only facial muscle.
Then, throwing the basket on his shoulder, carefully closed the door and slipped quietly up the stairs.
But the Irish barmaid had facilitated the entry, did not deign to appear.
Then turned to the theater but failed completely.
Fans in his cabinet, did not lack, but did not arouse lasting affection in public.
Not long before the troubles to come.
I reported all a soprano (more fixie that careless in matters of sex).
The tenor confided one day behind the organ, the contralto had a means to sustain the final note of each phrase, so that his voice was longer in the ear of the audience, an act worthy only could be attributed to a vicious and immoral character, that the tenor of a well-known dependent hardware on weekdays, and singing on Sunday, was not willing to endure longer.
And only under a German small, heavy voice that was embarrassing, defended the contralto and dared to say that were jealous of her, by having a good palm heart.
The storm finally festered and these differences were resolved in a lawsuit shameless Lady Clara in which he used his tongue with such precision arguments and epithets that the soprano burst into hysterics, and her husband had to remove the wording in the arms of the chorus: all of which came to the attention of the parishioners by the removal customary single soprano.
Lady Clara came home flushed with triumph, but to get to her room was not conducive to the blandishments of Carolina, saying that since then they were beggars, she, her mother, just take your last bite of bread and ended up breaking into inconsolable weeping.
Tears came to her eyes not so easily as in the past and poetic days, but when he poured his heart was lacerated.
Again itself to the announcement of the visit of a vestryman, the music committee.
Then wiped his long tab, Atos neck a new tape and went down the hall.
He remained there for two hours, that could lead to talk of not being the good man married with children of any age.
Lady Clara returning to her room, humming and looking in the mirror Carolina scolded.
At that had once saved his placement in the choir of the chapel.
However, it was not much space.
Over time, enemy forces received powerful aid in the person of the wife of the Committee-man.
Eight weeks ago I was out of placement and its limited resources were almost exhausted, when Ah-Fe shed in their hands the unexpected benefit.
III The leaden fog became more intense through the night, shaking and the headlights came to life, while Madame de Galba, lost in painful memories, was still leaning out his window sadly.
Did not even realize that Carolina had slipped from the room, and its bustling back, taking in hand the evening paper, still wet.
With the presence the girl became Lady Clara itself and present troubles.
In their plight used the poor woman sifting ads, with the fleeting hope of finding including proposals for a job (did not know which), which could provide for their needs, and Carolina had noticed this.
Instinctively, his eye fell on the next paragraph of the telegraph: Fiddletown, 7 .-- Don Juan Galba, a person "well known in this Instead, died last night of delirium tremens.
Don Juan was delivered to disordered behavior, caused, it is said, by disappointment within the family. " Lady Clara did not flinch.
Quietly turned the page and glanced at Carolina, which was absorbed in reading a book with pictures.
Lady Clara did not say a word, and for the rest of the night remained absorbed, contrary to custom, and extremely quiet and thoughtful.
Carolina turned to her sleepy eyes. - What about you, you would like, mum?
Lady Clara blushed to the ears. - Sleep - he snapped.
But after a little while, the girl felt two soft arms that clasped against her breast throbbing and touched by the heartrending sobs. - Do not cry, Mom - Caroline murmured, dreamily recalling the last conversation .-- No I want to cry.
I think I want a new daddy if you like very much ...
and me would like very much to me.
The lucky groom was a certain Robert, colonel recently elected to represent Calaveras County in Legislative Council.
Unable to report the event in more precise language chosen the Globe Correspondent Sacramento, I will quote some of his most funny: "The ruthless rogue Cupid arrows rages these days our gallant rooms: there is a new victim. "It is the honorable A.
Roberto de Calaveras, now a captive beautiful fairy, widow, a priestess of Thespis time, and even Recently, rival of Santa Cecilia, one of the churches to Fashion San Francisco, where she enjoyed a regular income. " The Dutch Flat newscast said the incident with little apprehension feature: "The new leader of the Democrats of Calaveras, just arrived the legislature with a brand new project.
This is the Galba name conversion in Ponce, name of Colonel Roberto.
We believe they call it a faith of marriage.
A shyness own female, added the obstacle of a rival, wealthy businessman Undertakers of Sacramento, who had captivated Madame de Galba, theater or church, as the professional habits of ordinary trouser excluded as treatment social and any other that was not religious or ceremonial.
As this gentleman had a nice fortune favors acquired during a long and terrible epidemic, the colonel it was somewhat scary for opponents.
But fortunately, the undertaker had to practice in the person of a senator, a colleague of the Colonel, who's gun he killed himself in an affair of honor, and whether they feared the rivalry by physical considerations, or be calculated with caution that the colonel could procure clients, it was that withdrew, leaving the field expedient.
The honeymoon was short, and ended with an unexpected incident.
During the honeymoon, entrusted to a sister of Colonel Robert the care of the child.
But her husband for some time showed signs of concern that he struggled to overcome through repeated use of strong drinks.
Finally he decided, closely abrochose Levite, and after walking the room once or twice unsteadily, stopped suddenly to his wife with an air of authority. - Until the last moment - said the colonel, with stammering lips and majesty affected increased your inner fear - I have deferred, ie, I have suspended the revelation of a fact that I comunicándotelo my duty.
All in order not to cloud the sun of our mutual happiness ...
Something in the tone of his voice, squinting in the sudden of his pupils, who at one time alcohol vapors dissipated in the head of colonel and shrugged his graceful figure.
I'll explain in a nutshell - he said, shaking his hand in conciliatory gesture - I'll explain.
melancholy event that precipitated our happiness, the mysterious providence freed you, also freed the girl.
This girl is dead and can not belong to the dead.
The girl belongs to her mother.
And again he walked past angry, throwing out his arms from the elbows down as well to rid themselves of imaginary bonds, and, entering her room, shut the door and the key turned to violence
