Are otherwise very plain: all your dress is a robe made of cotton fabric, which falls to them knees, and he has only half sleeves, are always bare, and no cover head.
Women are very neat, and like a lot of makeup: wanting to get to nature, In this respect, its ordinary limits, from his youth begin to get bracelets leagues and cotton fabrics, to modify this procedure by their arms and legs, and appear better educated than they are.
Also adorn the neck with fake corals, and are so exaggerated at this point, that if they could take it over itself a store of similar ornaments.
Vístense the same as the Indians with a cotton tunic, without sleeves, which give dapi name.
This tunic, white, blue or red, replace it, when they can, for a dress large flowered chintz to Ramage and scarlet background: just go barefoot.
All having a family is, moreover, in a house, some kitchen utensils, instruments of hunting, the bow and arrows, two or three layers, in as many dapis, and some blankets, which are covered by lying on the bare floor.
Tumupaza grounds are very productive, but the lack of trade means that its inhabitants do not grow very accurate but it satisfy their needs.
Money [1] is not yet known including replacing up to the present, to procure the items they need, their fruits that give in return.
The eSCelente cocoa [2], which is grown wild today all parties, can supply enough to cope to the most populous cities.
The Spanish believed that originally planted this plant had been scattered in the woods for the countless monkeys that they abound: as it may, it now covers immense surface, and the only task of picking a product yield substantial annual.
Despite this abundance, which is continually growing by the extent taken by Cacahual Native only collect what is enough to pay the personal contribution of six pounds nugget of cocoa per year, to give his ration of eight pounds a cure, more like ten to fifteen pounds to barter for needed clothing to the family: the remainder, ie thousands of pounds are lost every year, being abandoned to the birds and other animals jungle.
It is very easy to understand that there is however a reason for not wanting the people pick up the leftovers of cocoa that is, because the priest or the mayor do not force to carry on their backs, for the space of sixty or eighty leagues from the capital, the collection of these fruits.
Indeed, these poor wretches are beasts of burden alone of their country, and were chartered in the same way that the mules, each man has to carry along with its provisions, thirty-three pounds of cargo, in a basket called a kid, for wages both slightest regard paid in goods, and do not represent those only half real value.
Where do these trips transport, at public expense or in service the priest or the mayor, they are paid the actual amount of fourteen, and when they do on behalf of the traders are starting to Tumupaza three dollars and three and a half since Isiamas.
It is clear that the costly occupation that now hangs over these unfortunates, not only hinders and the cast makes the state less salvage, which were seen even free but also contributes to paralyze one of the most productive branches of the trade republic.
If the current state to more actively engage people in the harvesting of cocoa centuplicar come to their resources, but this would be necessary, above all, open roads practicable for mules, or undertake the voyage by the Tuyche.
A small part the years invested in this task, being able to devote the rest of the cotton fabric for not having to pay a cent for the staff of those lousy cotton cloth that lead them traders.
The people of this name, old mission of the Franciscans, is located nineteen miles north-northeast of Tumupaza, in the midst of a vast plain punctuated by forests and marshes.
The central position relatively to the other inland towns, we made deserve the prominence of party-boy capital, and is therefore a distinct vicariate of of Apollo.
With regard to agriculture and hunting, Isiamas enjoying the same privileges as Tumupaza: in his district is also a very large species of deer and also often much higher the product of their fishing in the river Beni, which is far from alone there, when over a thirteen leagues towards the east.
Every year, for the months of August and September, the Indians down to this river, to collect large numbers of turtle eggs, found in prodigious abundance on its shores.
Also fish in the rivers of Tequije neighbors and Ithaca, and an infinity ponds and puddles that form when the rivers run full.
The inhabitants of this village, who seizing the total in 1170, belong to tacana nation, and therefore their customs and their costumes make them similar to the Tumupaceños entirely.
Isiamas forests are filled with trees whose wood is highly prized for cabinet; We can mention among them the rosewood and mahogany: there are too many trees there resinous such as sandragon and oil plants as tumijojo (name equivalent to seed stone), a palm tree, coconuts whose extremely hard, containing almond oil filled: Retrieves this is only to power the lamps in the churches, and rarely for trade.
Also take oil several species of palms, and the comoruru, for example, skin has been thorny and Tueme and Asaja.
The latter is the plant preference, even in the same populations, near the houses where usually see also some tamarind.
It is unremarkable in cattle breeding Isiamas; are there, however, some horses.
This parish, situated at an immense distance from Isiamas [1] is the last mission which is north of the province.
From the people who just called, you get to sail Cavinas by the Beni River, which flows eastward a short distance from this place.
Although it would be very easy initiate a communication by land, opening a way through the plains, no doubt the navigation is preferable, providing the replacement of rafts made of logs tied, they now serve, regular comfortable vessels.
The people of Cavinas, having been reduced later to other parishes, is exempt from paying taxes, its population consists of Tacana, in the number of thousand, not but his chief priest, who is responsible for rule them both spiritually and in civil it is he who leads off to exchange for items they want.
For the rest, This district has the same production that Tumupaza having direct it, a giant tree that produces some sort of almonds contained in groups in a shell very thick.
The plains would serve advantageously for raising cattle, if not the vast crowd of bats [1] that preys at night to suck blood in poor animals, and this at present a great obstacle to progress.
The Rio Madidi, which takes its origin near Carabaya (in Peru) passes north of Cavinas and not far from the village, which is built precisely on the very acute angle formed the reunion of that river with the Beni.
The position so far away from this population quasi puts into contact with many tribes still savages, but are in the best provision for converting to Christianity.
Already in 1830, seventy Indians of these tribes came of their own will to be brought under providential parish so if the government would protect their conquest, they would soon all of them to establish new and large populations, and this so more spontaneity since then it sustraerian incursions of the warlike Machuis, his relentless enemies.
Population of the province.
As we have seen, Caupolican province consists of ten parishes, whose population divided into three separate nations, is as follows, according to the reviews undertaken in the year 1832. +------------------------------------------------- ----------+ | NAME | NAMES OF NATIONS, | TOTAL | | | and number of the population | | | Of | of each district. | DE | | |--------------------------| THE PEOPLE | | PEOPLE | Quichua | APOL | TACANAS | in each district. | |-------------+--------+-------- -+-------+------------------| | Suches | | | | | | Pelechuco | 2500 | | | 2,500 | | Pata | 165 | | | 165 | | Moxos | 122 | | | 122 | | Apollo | | 2775 | | 2775 | | Santa Cruz | | | | | | Valle Ameno | | 941 | | 941 | | Aten | | | 1,033 | 1,033 | | St.
If these amounts are added to about three thousand Indians, still savages, who live towards the northwest, north and northeast towards Tumupaza and Cavinas, it will be a total General thirteen thousand six hundred sixty-four souls.
The three primitive languages ??spoken in the province although it everywhere: just in Suches, Pelechuco Pata and Moxos means only people in Quichua, the Apollo and Santa Cruz de Valle Ameno still espressi in Apollo, while in Athens, and in all the inland towns, language is the only tacana that is in use.
As the Franciscans precision had to communicate continuously with the Indians, in each population are interpreters, over trade relations, due to the collection of the scale, will gradually helping to spread the use of Castilian among the Indians, who do not leave and to understand some words.
These Indians, generally speaking the more docile, they are held without ever complaining, to the laws imposed on them, while being suitable for all, both in its character, for ease of understanding them is natural.
What I have said in detail Each parish will suffice to give an idea of ??their customs and their habits, could only Caupolicanos add that everyone is poor, not poverty that afflicts such because they have what it takes to eat to satiety and to dress and procure some pleasures, can not stir them on the other hand the future of their children, in the heart of this nature so fertile.
Relative poverty is a real wealth of the current state of affairs, because As desirable objects that do not have the slightest idea!
The spirit of possession of wealth, and go mustering the means to procure all future kind of enjoyment, it is now, so to speak, a principle of civilization unknown to the people to come, much as that of Caupolican, the primitive state.
The only way natural remedy that apathy, indolence that they reproach to all nations yet half savage, is to be born among them, by the frequency of trade relations, needs that they are at present unknown.
Then, the desire to satisfy, necessarily determined efforts of work, which must provide the means.
It must be said in praise of the character of these people, they all considered if they belonged to one family, living in the closest fraternity: thus, for example, when there is one which the crop becomes insufficient provision for the year, requests as a very natural thing Ausilio his neighbor, who with the greatest goodwill in the world part with everything he has.
If they so generously give to his countrymen what is necessary for subsistence, are not less willing to lavish superfluity to those who are his friends.
Abuse of functions, which, with large number of religious festivals has introduced Caupolican the clergy, as well as on the plains of Bolivia, is undoubtedly the main cause of ruin and disorder.
If such days the natives of the interior villages content with grotesquely attired and carry on their persons the varied plumage of birds of their forests without drinking anything other than the chicha, the fermented liquid made yucca, which is neither too strong nor harmful, not the case with the natives of Caupolican, dresses with the same extravagance that make use of spirits and caused this drink great expense while the loss of his health.
