Zadig, whom I had never seen and found great Desterham sheriffs, with a role of the king in his hand stole very orderly and calm throughout the house.
I went down in a twinkling in the kitchen of the Queen, some of scholarship gentlemen told me that had died, others were imprisoned, and others said that he had escaped, but all estava answer that I can not pay my curds.
It was my wife more white curds that were the source of my misery, and do not even shine purple Tyro that encouraged having white color, so he put it Orcan, and gave me his home.
I wrote to my wife desperate letter, and responded to the bearer: Yeah, yeah, I know who I writes, I have talked about it, they say that makes curds excellent: I am bringing, and they are paid.
Quedábanme six ounces of gold was necessary to give two the legal expert I consulted, two to the attorney who handled my case, and two to scribe the first judge.
This done, had not yet started my pleyto, and I had been more spent money than my curds and my wife were worth the bargain.
I returned to the people with the intention of selling my house for my wife to recover.
Valia is about sixty ounces of gold; but I Vian poor, and in haste to sell.
The first to whom I spoke gave me thirty the second twenty, and the third ten, and was going to take for this price, according was blind.
Wine At the time, a prince of Babylon to Hircania, ravaging the whole country through which he passed, the qual ransacked my house, and then put fire.
Having thus lost money, wife and home, I retired to the country where you see me, trying to earn my living by fishing.
The fish do teasing me just as the men drew no, and I'm starving, and without you, dildo August, was about to jump into the River.
No fisherman told his story without many pauses, and to every one was telling Zadig, robbed and out of it: With what you know nothing of the fate of the Queen?
I've heard of that Zadig, as an honest man and if he returns to Babylon, but what should I give you, but for what you do to your wife, who is not honest, aconsejoos prevent you from doing errands to get back to it.
Take my advice, go to Babylon, where before I'll get to you because you are going to walk and I am going to horse veos the illustrious Cador, tell that you have found his friend, and wait for me at home: go in peace, that maybe you will not be provided unhappy.
Orosmades powerful, followed me to comfort you have earned this man: who you valdréis to give me comfort?
For our lord and master Ogul, whose palace are watching the banks of the river, and within this field, who are his most humble slaves.
It seemed majestic stature, although he had covered his face a veil.
Hincóse knees before Astarte, bowing his fiente Baxo dust of your feet.
Lift it up the Queen of Babylon, and I feel it themselves on the banks of the stream, a thousand times enxugar eyes always bathed in fresh tears.
Twenty times ci knotted thread of reasons that blocked her moans; doeth questions about anything that had gathered, and did not rise to that respond to new questions, beginning to tell their misfortunes, and wanted to know those Zadig.
While they are looking for their basilisk, I shall inform you, 'said the fair Astarte, all I have suffered, and forgive the sky once you get to see you.
You know that the king My husband took it amiss that you were the kindest of all men, and perhaps for this reason took a night to send you the determination to hang, and give me a tósigo, and also know that compassionate heaven disposed to let me know my dwarf silent orders of his sublime Majesty.
No sooner had I pointed the faithful Cador to obey and depart, she dared to penetrate by a side door in my fourth at midnight, I pulled out of the palace, and took me to temple of Orosmades, where I locked her brother magician into a colossal statue which is based rests on the foundation of the temple, and the head touches the roof.
This was like buried as the magician who served me made sure that I shall not want.
At break of day, entered my quarto of His Majesty the chemist with a potion of henbane, opium, hemlock, black hellebore, and anapelo, and another officer went to your house with a blue silk cord; Nias found no to anyone.
For more deceive the king, Cador him a false complaint against two of us, pretending you wore you the way to India, and mine in Memphis, and sent people in our trackers.
I knew the messengers who were looking fight, because it seldom had shown me face, unless it was to you, before my husband and by his order.
Chasing Ibanme by signs that they had given me, and found the line of Egypt with other my height itself, and that perhaps was more beautiful.
I was in tears, and walked heedless, so that they did not doubt that she was the queen of Babylon, and to Moabdar conduxéron.
Wroth King violently by mistake, but after having covered more closely to this woman, saw that it was very beautiful, and was comforted.
Missouf was called, a name which, according to later I am told, means the beautiful Egyptian, capricious, and it was indeed, but were not in behind their gear to their cravings, while having to Moabdar liked him so captivated who declared his lawful wife.
Manifestóse then frankly its kind, giving unchecked to all the extravagances of his imagination.
Wished to stress the high magician, old and gout, to which Bayle in his presence, and having refused this, he was haunted by death.
In the Horse I ordered a sweet cake, and since it was not represented baker, all was in vain: he had to make the cake, and let him go because he was so toast.
The office of the Horse was given to his dwarf, and a page to him tax advice: ruled in this way to Babylon.
Llorábame around the world, and the king, until he had sent me hang and poison had been pretty good, I leave that his virtues runners to shipwreck on his love of beautiful fanciful.
The day of the sacred fire came to the temple, and I saw him implore the gods for Missouf, prostrate before the statue where I was stuck.
Then raising voice, I said to him: "The Gods dismiss the pleas of a king became a tyrant, and has wanted to take the life of a woman on trial for marrying a crazy woman. "put these words Moabdar on such a confusion to which he was the head.
In oracle I had pronounced and the tyranny of Missouf had plenty to lose his reason, and with effect in a few days went crazy.
This madness, which was attributed to punishment from heaven, was the signal for rebellion: amotinóse the people and took weapons, Babylon, where queen into a pier as long idleness, became theater of a horrific civil war.
They pulled me out of the hole of my statue; They put forward of a party, and Cador was running to Memphis, to bring him to Babylon.
News of such fatal New Prince of Hircania came with his army to form third party in Chaldea and came to attack the king met him with his blundering Egyptian.
Moabdar died, pierced by a thousand cuts, and fell in the hands of the victor Missouf.
It was my misfortune that I also was caught by a band of guerrillas Hyrcanus, Condux me into the presence of the prince, at the same time it took to Missouf.
Surely ye shall know that I had the satisfaction for more beautiful than the Egyptian, but shall not be less feeling for what you say you I devoted to his harem, saying without beating about the bush, then to conclude a military expedition to qual was scheduled to leave, would come to me.
Imagine qual was my grief: Broken links with Moabdar shook me, could be Zadig, and fell in the irons of a barbarian.
I replied with all the pride that my high large hierarchy inspired me and my affections, having heard that all my life that people of my dignity of the heavens had endowed of such greatness, with a word and a look of eyes mingled in the dust of the blue to quanta were reckless daring to depart from a point in the most reverent obedience.
Spoke as Queen, but I was treated like a maid of pitcher: the Hyrcanus, without even deigning to answer, he said to his black eunuch that I was swearing, but he seemed nice.
Ordered him to me take care and give me the treatment to those who were in his favor, that I became the colors, and were more worthy of his touch on the day it seemed appropriate to honor them.
Dixel would kill me, and I replied laughing that none were killed by these things and was used to such niceties, and went as a xilguero dexándome cage.
And he knelt down to hear these reasons, watering with tears plants Astarte.
Alzola this affectionately, and went on to say: Viamed in the hands of a barbarian, and competition with a crazy who was locked.
Contour Missouf his adventure in Egypt, and for painting that you did, by time, by the dromedary in ye were mounted, and the other circumstances came to the attention of Zadig was who had fought in their defense; and no doubt you were in Memphis, I determined to take refuge in this city.
Bella Missouf, I said to him, "you are much more comely than I, and looking for fun rather Hyrcanian Prince: procuradme means of escape; reynaréis you alone, and you will make me happy, librándoos of a rival.
Received the Queen was in Babylon with that joy with which we always welcome a princess beautiful and unhappy
