The lady put her finger on the lips making sign to stay away.
When he returned to his side Clementina gave account, in tears and sighs, of the wrongs that her husband had inferred that night.
First, Emilio Hungarian dressed to come to the dance.
Irene had observed as he entered, dressed Mary Huerta also Hungarian.
They must have agreed, what which was a shame that more than one person had noticed.
After dancing a waltz and quadrille.
While it lasted, Emilio had not stopped to speak to the ear.
All night he had been serving the same as a servant, have the same sources of sweets and fruit ices.
Rather die a thousand times to suffer such torments.
Clementina consoled as he could.
Only men maybe have these flashes, which called bullfighters strangers.
As the heart is not concerned, letting loose a moment and become disgusted with what they truly love.
To fix a little and wash the eyes would not take her to the toilet dance: subióla the the duchess.
As Clementina Pepa learned what had happened, was angry in a way that felt the need to contain it so that it was not a scratch to his son. - Well, if I scratch him now, I shall scratch later - he said, shrugging his shoulders with indifference.
Whatever happens, I can not agree that this marmoset mate my daughter, you know ...
And as for that slut earless, I will not rest until the spit in the face ...
Huerta is in the Ministry.
Watch see if you send a governor anywhere .... - It's true!
Tonight to me paid, or not call me Pepa.
The duke, always surrounded by a group of faithful, left vex censer beating, dropping at long intervals some spiritual that electrified growl, made them burst into exclamations joy.
The ladies were most distinguished by their enthusiasm.
The genius speculator of dizziness Salabert infused them with astonishment, as if it were publicly to calculate how many dresses could buy with his millions.
And he, as generally flexible, which had come to put occupied, as he himself confessed, by dint of kicks in the butt, to be among his worshipers mercilessly mistreated.
His jokes brutal, as falling on men that on the ladies.
Enjoyed in the barbaric display of his strength.
If those devotees Fans were left not so patiently humiliate them anything, what would not happen if I bestow including their millions, if the calf of gold began to vomit coins?
In the playroom, where he was fired after the sovereigns, it had materially blocked a portion of speculators in the second and third row. - How are the actions of Rios, Duke? "- He dared to ask one. - Do not talk to me about that - growled the grim hero rolling her eyes.
Llera plan was unfolding on time: that is, the duke, after taken an increased number of shares dealt in producing a panic among the shareholders.
A few months ago that through secret agents to sell the shares bought instant loss.
Now preparing the final blow, buying most for fling market, this advantage of the low yield and acquire half plus one of the actions. - Not all businesses have to do well - said the other smiling with ill-concealed satisfaction -.
rather than what people perceive ...
I know well and know I could not contain my indignation.
We attention should be drawn at this time ....
You go, you go ...
and beat it soon ....
Clementina, without saying another word, he briskly walked away, his face pale and contracted, trembling lips.
He rushed into the vortex of the rooms and looked anxiously at the intruder.
It did not take many minutes to find it oh shame!
arm of the Marquis de Dávalos.
It was splendidly beautiful former florist in his suit of Mary Stuart.
He wore an overcoat sleeves slashed open, crimson embroidered with gold, an elegant lacy enamel and tiny flowers and pearls.
Her incomparable beauty further angered anger Clementina.
The beautiful odalisque Salabert, although very limited intelligence, had time to reflect their presence in the dance might lead to conflict.
But her craving was so Live and disorderly, which was determined not to leave to meet, show off their expensive dress Queen of Scotland.
He thought he could overcome this difficult situation going to last minute taking a few laps through the halls and retiring soon.
Bearing was accompanied by a friend venerable-looking old.
Must have experienced bitter disappointment when to enter the Banquet and encountering a distinguished portion of who was wild with privacy, Pepe Castro, Count of Agreda, Maldonado and others, noted that all turned their backs and hurried away.
Only the faithful Manolo, the mad Marquis de Dávalos, recognized and consented to the decline of offering his arm.
A few minutes could enjoy support from Malaga.
When a triumphant smile folded and his lips and was slow and stately giving his coveted around the halls, the Clementina was suddenly face.
Without any greeting or the slightest inclination head or ignore any of his companion, that he put his hand on his shoulder, telling her: - Have the kindness to hear a word.
Mary Stuart turned pale, hesitated a moment, and then said firmly and proudly wave: - I have nothing to talk to you.
Who want to see is the landlord, the Duke of Requena.
Margaret of Austria who nailed a angry eyes, the other said without blinking.
Then mouth close to his ear, he said in angry tone: - If you do not follow me now, I call two servants to being pulled out of the room by force.
And while he glanced around as if to keep his promise.
Shedding Dávalos arm followed the end.
This scene was observed by several people, but no one dared to follow if not Manolo insane, which he did from afar.
Philip III's wife went to the lobby and there told a lackey - The cover of this lady.
Mary Stuart-handedly put anyone, with a trembling hand.
Then walked a few steps, and turning suddenly, he directed a look of deadly hatred Ms Margaret of Austria, who handed it back together with a sneer.
God was the unfortunate Queen of Scots was to be humiliated forever.
First I was by his aunt Elizabeth of England.
Queen Margaret now put it bluntly in out on the street.
Where he found his venerable friend into and the car.
To see the beginning the last scene had slipped cautiously.
Before splitting, the Marquis of Dávalos joined them.
We do not know what the rooms Requena won in its moral aspect with the departure of Mary Stuart, but we can say that they lost much in the aesthetic.
The dance was ending.
Began preparations for the great party favors.
The crowd had cleared a bit.
Some left before the end of the dance, mostly old who was hurting the late nights.
Among the ladies was the agitation and movement always precedes the cotillion.
In this last stage, the dance takes on a family recreation very pleasant.
The art and imagination involved to extract sensuality and make a hobby innocent, beautiful style festivals in the fourteenth century were held in halls England and France.
Marriageable age for girls is usually also the moment you end the first act of the comedy of love that have begun to represent.
Pepe Castro had received advice from his former mistress Clementina regarding the advisability to celebrate the apple of Calderon, with laughter as we have seen.
As he danced and joked with other girls, did not fail to remember more than once.
By the cotillion Esperancita approached asking if I wanted to be your partner, knowing that this could not be, as all are quick to ask Pollastre that thanks to the ladies and entering the dance.
But it suited for the plan began to unfold in your brain, fruitful abstractions.
The girl had in fact committed to the count de Agreda, but on hearing the application for Castro, he felt such desires to access it, which yes amazing audacity.
The Duchess lady appointed as director to the Countess of Cotorraso, which joined Cobo Ramirez.
This was imposed at all the balls as party favors very able director.
As was the case, that many days before the dance had already held long conferences with Clementina about this most essential point.
Formosa the circle of chairs.
Pepe Castro went to get Hope, who took his arm good grade.
The audacity not abandoned the child, the audacity of the woman in love. - Oh, pardon me, Leo!
When I granted what you remembered that I had already committed Pepe - replied in a tone that could envy the most accomplished actress.
The count withdrew saying a few words of courtesy, they could not hide his bad mood.
When they were alone, Esperanza, afraid of that testimony was given interest Castro was quick to apologize blushing. - The truth is that I remembered that I had committed to Leon ....
And as already taken the arm of you ...
and also the count dances in a manner that distresses me a lot ....
Pepe Castro did not abuse its triumph manifested modest and submissive.
Instead of flirting shamelessly adopted a more ingratiating temperament, filling it with delicate care, establishing more trust between them, showing, in a word, much love, but without speaking of love.
The girl was full of joy.
Espezaba to feel adored.
I thought that sympathy and affection with who had always treated Pepe and she finally transformed into love.
His heart began happily jump into the chest.
The Count de Agreda it was a short time back very unfriendly, almost as unpleasant as Cobo Ramirez, because he began to feel he same jealousy than the other.
Instead, Pepe Castro considerábalo as his very self, another councilman slimmer.
The attention that Esperancita kept him, would take them as directed at their own person.
So, when he saw the arm, was deeply moved, and approach them for insignificant say a few words could not help blushing.
The cotillion was decent shot of that brilliant dance.
The fantasy of Cobo Ramirez, pressed the seriousness of the case, delighted guests with pilgrims delicate traces and devices: had disposed of about an hour.
He drew attention, and earned unanimous acclaim, a ring game organized in the middle of the room.
Queen knights divided into two crews, who shot arrows alternately gorgeous golden arches around the ring suspended by a ribbon from the ceiling.
The victors had the right to dance with the ladies the vanquished, while they had to continue giving the air with the fan.
Organizóse then another set of tapes for the ladies.
The winner came a time of games and appeared then in a chariot drawn by four footmen dressed in black-given and a turn surrounded by all others, to the beat of a triumphal march.
These and other no less famous inventions, forever left sitting on a solid foundation of Fame son of the Marquis of Casa-Ramírez.
Over the cotillion began the parade of people.
All that crowd rushed to the lobby and on the steps, talking loudly, laughing, crying ever claim the car.
The vast garden, lit by a few electric light bulbs, looked quite fantastic, implausible, as the landscapes of the peep show.
Those white lights, intense, made even more black and deep foliage, erasing boundaries Park extending beyond measure.
The night was clear.
In the eastern Azul the aurora.
Wrapped in fur coats, wild youth burned the last rounds of their ingenuity in honor of the beautiful ladies who were near.
Expensive and colorful coats they screamed under the light bulbs.
The pawing horses, the servants cried, and the cars, slowly approaching the steps, crunching sand roads.
The wheel of the car, passing in front of the grand staircase, was snatching little by little to those who were there to disperse around Madrid in search of rest.
Pepe Castro had been placed next to Esperanza and spoke softly in his ear.
The girl, muffled to the eyes, smiled without looking.
When his car arrived at last shook long hands. - I do not suppose we have so long neglected up to now, which will be at home most often - yet she said taking her hand in the wild gallant. - Do you really want to go home often? - Said staring at her as a magnetizer. - You bet I do!
In saying this strongly reddened under her veil, and releasing his hand sharply, followed her mother who entered the carriage.
Pepa Frias had told his daughter: - Look, girl, when we leave, I want Emily to accompany me.
I'm nervous and could not sleep if not set before the accounts.
I want no more scandals, you know?
I'm going to direct the ultimatum.
If it persists, you're coming with me and he is going to hell.
His daughter, even if I wanted to object to this separation, as adored her cheating husband, did not dare.
When it came time to go, Pepa went to his son: - Emilio, do me the favor to accompany me.
I want to talk to you. "Bad!" the young man said to himself. - Irene E? - Let him go alone.
No wolves eat it - responded harshly. "Too bad!" turned to Emilio said.
In fact, Irene directing glimpses of fear and anxiety to her mother and her husband went alone in the saloon, while they rose to the first.
As the carriage began to roll, Emilio, to disarm his mother, wanted, like a child I was, pulling the beam deflect a conversation that could entertain. - Did you see what Amparo audacity?
The thought capable of many follies, but not One like.
And he spoke of with great verbosity Amparo not get your mother's lips unfold.
The same happened when he began to comment about Salabert fortune of Dancing costs, the extraordinary honor that he earned the sovereign that night, etc.., etc.
Pepa reclining in his corner, he quietly announced that fierce no good.
But Emilio, confidently, skillfully played key responding in all women. - Do you know, Pepa (thus kept calling, like when I was her daughter's boyfriend), which in a group where he was President of the Council heard inadvertently praise you?
Said there was no girl in dance that could compete with the freshness of you, that you had a skin like satin, every day smoother and brighter. - Jesus, what nonsense!
