We got to the room of Don Guillén.
She did not go ahead, and I had to do it myself.
My intention was to leave it in and retire quietly to my barracks.
Against my purpose I had to witness the beginning of the scene, because it developed suddenly and then because, in spite of myself, and still remained gripped by the anticipation.
Anxieties fell at the feet of Don Guillen.
Embraced them, foreshortened neck albo ductile, they are watered with tears, they are lean with abundant hair and coppery.
I lost love, the despair of love.
Don Guillen, pale, stiff, stuttering, asked: - Get up, sister!
Then Don Guillen knelt before her. - You're clean.
You and God are those who must forgive me, and forgive me, for I have loved and suffered greatly.
Say you forgive me, gave a qualified yes lips a nod, but not from the heart. - A thousand times yes - Angus said with a gasp, waving in the air their hair.
Don Guillen ground rose up and rushed Sorrows in her arms, tending towards he parched lips, her head fell to the back, as inert.
Don Guillen gently straightened her head and kissed his forehead.
I realized it was the right time to retire the sly, stealthily and turned on my heels when I heard that Don Guillén, with an accent between alarmed and severe, he said: - What are you doing?
Wait a moment, I have to ask a favor.
It is necessary help me to improvise an accommodation where my sister rest for several hours.
If you have in your room couch, or even a chair, I can sleep there if you do not mind, and Angus is in this room.
Arrange the accommodation as Don Guillen wanted.
The couch was next to the partition walls between my room and hers.
Across the wall, leaned the bed where I lay Sorrows.
Lying and Don Guillen told me from his couch: - The most immediate and urgent and I have it decided.
Within a few hours, the first train Sorrows will Castrofuerte way, with a letter to Don Abel Parras, an old canon, fat, peaceful and good-natured, my best friend.
Later, we'll see what we do ....
Answered another ring cautious.
Burst laughing, turning to face me. - Have not you heard what we said?
I said no, dimly, because the dream I surrender. - As I said, 'Sleep in peace, sister, has risen with the Lord. "She said," God bless you, keep me forever. " "What insight!
Have been granted the gift of tongues, as if instead of Easter Pentecost was, I thought dimly, from the initial darkness of sleep.
And from very deep in my consciousness melting point guard, I said, I reckon it aloud: - The gift of tongues!
I woke up at two in the afternoon.
Don Guillén had disappeared from the couch and Madrid.
About my table stood a white writing that read: "Goodbye, good friend.
I've given a hug thanks and farewell, without you, sound asleep, he has noticed.
Already know you from me.
Forever friend, Pedro Guillén Caramanzana. " And, in fact, years later, I knew and witnessed great things from him, which I refer On another occasion, if the opportunity arises and I have nothing better to do.
Sub specie Aeterni.
It is Easter Sunday.
Location: in the vicinity City of Pillars.
It is a northern spring day.
Earth and sky, two by female.
The earth, and dense evergreen, is groomed and Alinda prodigiously and did not shave or use other water composure and wintry snows.
On cloth Verdegay, graceful folds and lobes, with dresses that mother earth provided maid has been, here and there, some flowery orchards, candid ornament.
The sky is so gentle, pure and happy, like pre-pubescent schoolgirl, wearing apparel and Sunday May; mild crinolines snowfall, which shines through a blue silk background.
From the village discerned the city, shell covering a hill, as scaled breastplate lying on a torso armor, armor wrought copper and iron, battered and, at intervals dirty gold, reddish gray in places, a greenish stretches from the years corrosion and rust.
On one side leaves the tower of the cathedral, as Lance chipped, still stands firm under armpit.
From the city, up the road, up a fat man was red and sweaty, which looks at the morning sun, a matte silver knob, and aluminum.
Follow her another man and a young boy, both of the white coat, each with baskets on her head. - Sacrebleu, Sacrebleu - swears the fat man and crimson, in time to wipe the bleeding from the forehead -.
Come, Nolo, that I have need for trust, and is so much better to find a loyal heart than monologue.
I tired of the patron saint of my beloved wife.
The women in my country are saving.
I love saving women, good management.
But my wife is already much too thrifty; very much, very much.
I head into my business and work like a donkey after morning to night to earn good money, but I love me good money for good life and feed my degree.
This is already what I have.
Voilà - slapping his stomach - this friend is very demanding.
But the landlady she does not eat, or eat like a little bird, she believes that all other habemos not need to eat as it is needed.
I love salmon, but my wife does not buy salmon, because it is expensive.
Then I myself was the market and bought a magnificent salmon for sixty pesetas, and the beautiful fish I sent my house, as if he were a gift from a friend, on the contrary, if she knows I I will have purchased, my wife makes a terrible quarrel.
Behold, I am going to my house all happy, saying to me today as my pleasure salmon.
My wife greets me with kisses of love, and she whispers, we have good luck, they have made us a beautiful gift of a salmon too large, which, as we would not have eaten, I've sold for forty pesetas.
In this country men are little cultivated.
You should not beat women, or even at the sake of food, let alone because of other reasons unimportant infidelity for example. - Caracho! - Said the call Nolo -.
That food, go, but what is that.
The pareceríame death recently. - Ah! "Kill you?
It is a beast, but I understand. - Why Diana kill myself ...!
O Nah, you require or demand a woman, and if gets out, stick.
O Nah, you paste, or it sticks.
Nah, you remember what the poor Bellarmine. - What do I say?
But is that the poor Xuantipa Bellarmine was unfaithful?
What I am saying is that, as Bellarmine could not cure his wife, when held, with syrup ash, there is no better melecina pa the big women, then, fixed, that his wife had always atosigao him and cure pa therefore Nah, you know, I gave poultice on the backs each stake .... - Yeah, I know.
The poor man, my dear friend ....
I miss it less, since which is enshrined there in the asylum who you say maletería; name truly comical. - Not maletería; is malatería. - Is not it the same thing? - No, sir. - So what do you mean malatería? - Curse if I know. - That does nothing.
But the beloved Revenga Bellarmine.
I can not do without it.
I I come to visit every week or fortnight for ten years, in spite of this costs abominable that I must climb to get.
And Apollonius, it is also another great man.
I want to show how much they love and admire them.
That is why they I have these thick Easter cakes and thick custard sources, and many dozens thick cakes, like other years, so many of them, on this day. - That will eat greedy nuns and other inmates, like other years, this same day. - Ah, of course!
But the cakes are in Belarmino and Apolonio, and they enjoy invite more than being invited.
I have a need for great tact.
But it all is so extraordinary, so extraordinary ....
Belarmino I love most, this is not to say, he is an old friend.
But I love you too Apollonius.
Remember, the employer can not know that habemos brought this gift.
Mysterious gravitation Colignon going to Bellarmine.
Is vulgar error to suppose that the force of gravity brings down the bodies.
This fall involves the notion of up and down, and in infinite space there is no up or down, the bodies and souls sometimes rise and others fall down upwards.
The latter is what Epicurean Colignon happening to that, between gasps and hot flashes, going back regularly costs asylum, attracted by the ascetic Bellarmine ie falling, no will, going up to him.
Colignon rather old-looking and, penetrates, with his party at the hall of asylum, an elongated piece of bare walls, with four helpless straw saddles.
Front in front of the door, there is a bracket on the wall of pine, over it, a statuette, unhappy, San Jose, cardboard, at the foot of the saint, half a dozen beans, chickpeas and half a dozen a bottle with an olive, dense liquid, and a label says: Azeite.
These holy gifts in kind to indicate that what appears to spare, is precisely what is lacking in the asylum, so that they know that charitable souls there seldom fall to meet in a work of mercy, and that their gifts are the most have been necessary in the poor house.
Tinkling, farther and farther away, a bell, voice cracked and old.
Through a door, painted black, comes an old nun, warning that is skeletal, despite Haldudo faldamento, mummified the face.
Above all, the cooling Colignon memory and disturbs the chest of the sister of Dolores.
These effects occur without French intention or guilt, just because of their obesity.
As viejucos asylees, and Beaton also all who go there to visit are, without exception, lean people, each Once the sister of Dolores sees a fat man, imagine having before it the love and Novillo spoiled, and feel again the old Felicita.
This is a branch of the Rua Ruera other times.
Bellarmine is here, Apolonio is here, the usurer is here, you 're here.
I'm only missing, and I'm here now.
All others who are not coming to the rendez-vous is because they are dead and the eternity of nothingness. - Oh! - Sighs sister, without raising his eyes, against all rules of good sigh -.
The people here are also dead and watched the world from the perspective of eternity. - What an idea!
But still eat cakes.
Meanwhile we can eat cake, God be blessed .-- Y Colignon laughs as always with trepidation Glog turkey and stomach.
I continued .-- I needed here as beans and peas and oil.
All the better to eat cakes. - God will reward you, sir Colignon.
Leave before the sun came out today that you appear Easter with entertainment.
But it appears that those who invite the poor little I'm not old, but it is their peers Belarmino and Apolonio. - How little is needed for happiness, and how he almost never comes to that little ...!-- says yes the sister of Dolores, without referring, of course, to the flour, sugar and eggs, since there was no standing attention in the reply from the French, but was absorbed in their thoughts.
Leaving him, adds: - to leave here these baskets.
Colignon, to see their friends, until the time of the refectory.
Are in the garden, for sure, waiting with impatience.
Colignon runs hallways, where smells of trash, and leaves the so-called garden a garden without flowers that some daffodils.
It is an expanse of prairie, the prairie, cut by sandy tracks, on sidewalks, wooden benches, canopy banks, the tops of the acacias.
There are a breath of damp earth.
Shines a dim and yellow sun melts forms and turns into a hint huidera and intangible, it is unknown if dawn or dusk, and noon, a golden vapor blurring the boundaries and melts things flowing and unit undecided, we do not know if it's memory or hope.
Collignon, so carnal and concrete, overlooks the garden, stepping on the edge is given first the Champs Elysees, inhabited by disembodied images of those who were and are no longer, of those who left in the solid earth, home of the gentle pleasures, and do not retain but the appearance of life, and with it the age-old passions, because passions are the soul and the soul is indestructible.
The moist breath of the earth it gets up to Colignon bones, and experience a deep chill.
But this is just what you like, enter for a few moments in a kind of beyond or world of illusion and memory, to bask in their curious villagers and certainty that there are also eaten cakes, and that he, although within that mock the grave, can go as he pleases and return to the delights of physiological and eventful life.
So Colignon looming in the garden, the old, scattered on either side, come to him, with faltering steps and labored, as in dreams, when movements are hindrance impeded by heavy and invisible.
Comes with step majestic and indifferent mood, determined to show no vulgar haste: it is Apollonius.
Just another remains in place, far away, sitting on a bench, having greeted the Colignon with a slight gesture of the hand is Bellarmine.
Belarmino and Apolonio are substantially younger than the rest of the inmates.
A nun, keeper of that herd of decrepit men, walking down one of the paths transverse, and manages to cross the Apollonius Roncero.
The nun is Sister Lucidia.
On the right side of the face, taking him from temple to the corner of the lips, and all through the cheek, has - since he was born - a crimson stain, tentacular profile as a brand new track slap, a blow that, before out to life, gave him the destination.
Lucidia sister always has her head bowed on the right side, as if he would not like that shame, as if trying to hide or if the other cheek, pale and intact, with the adversity of the aggressive providence.
That spot, which seems smeared with red grape skins for a lewd hand satyr in delirium bucolic vintage suggests a tragic love story, intimate and sealed.
The nun must have been pretty, despite the embarrassing spot, and even more so cute, because of the stain to a passionate spirit and prone to dramatic emotions, such as is that of Apollonius.
I adore you, I love you night and day.
Day and night, oddly, are represented in your beautiful face.
On this side is calm and without reproach, deathly pale, Diana, the night.
Penile joy or, as I look at the fiery side, and the watchman, and looking at your face, night and day pass the hours of my life. - Mr Apolonio, let's couplets.
When I talk like he wants to ask me something, I know experience
