During the last month of that year, Morales became owner of all the East, and blocking his squadron to the coast from Trinidad Irapa, preventing escape to the Patriots.
Also submitted at the same time the western Venezuelan arms of Spain, Urdaneta came under the protection of New-Granada, one day hoping to acquire the news reappearance of Bolivar.
Violation effect in Pamplona, ??and let you way Tunja, where he directed to account for his conduct in general government and encourage calm and full Always his outspoken honesty and his enthusiasm never shot.
The government received him kindly, adopted all his actions, and as proof of his full conviction and trust, we custom make to Bogota, which carried out the Dec. 12, giving the defeated an honorable capitulation.
This city was of course the seat of government, which ordered Caracas descended the illustrious Magdalena Santa Marta to act against, and this departed the head of the division of Urdaneta, reinforced by some recruits Granada.
The submission Santa Fe de Bogota brought recognition by Congress meeting provinces Tunja to try to Bolivar, and a new effort to establish a constitutional government.
To facilitate the success of the company was authorized to take Bolivar arsenals Cartagena some royalties and how much will I need to try, but the chief who commanded in that refused to place it, and then we saw in the case of laying siege to their own coreligionarios.
While running this for the disgusting operation with the intention to punish disobedience, to maintain order and discipline, without which it is impossible to go forward in proclaimed emancipation way, the Spanish general Don Pablo Morillo anchored in Puerto Ghost, April 5, 1815, under the command of an expedition that even marine force, consisting 15,000 men aided by 18 pieces of artillery, a regiment of dragoons, another Hussars and some companies of sappers.
In view of these formidable reinforcement, and tired of fruitless struggle against such a cluster of problems, children most of the creeping envy, and without giving up so expect better times to begin anew the conquest of the liberties of his country, made available to the chief Cartagena led forces, and three days of the arrival of retired Morillo to Jamaica, where he later met Marino and some other leaders and Venezuelan officials.
Shortly after the general Morillo laid siege to Cartagena, that because of that he had made suffer the Liberator of provisions was exhausted and could not resist but a few days.
Making this important population provided the realistic means to reconquer New Granada, and soon ran in torrents on the scaffold the blood of his determined and honest people.
The Republic had ceased to exist in appearance, but still sheltered in the mountains small and scattered some items, such as living testimony that the fire of revolution existed in the heart of the woods, prepared to produce new fires, as in the hearts of the American South, willing and welcome to the recovery of her always trampled rights, but in those moments they saw drowned by brutal force.
For governor of the island of Margarita Morillo named Don Antonio Herrera, whose kind character not being in harmony with the kidnappings and violent prison system in all parties took place, gave room to stay soon dismissed, and went to replace him right person, but hard of heart, and therefore in accordance with the arbitrary and abuse by the time the order of the day.
Colonel Don Joaquin Urreiztieta, which was opened followed by a ruthless pursuit to sugetos main island.
Among others who decided to sell their lives dearly, rather than wait for it wickedly taken away, stripped of their estates and enclosed in gloomy dungeons, Arismendi took refuge in the mountains decided to pay his, but weapons in hand.
Meanwhile Providence seemed to protect the days of the Liberator in Jamaica, away from her bosom the dagger traitor who had to leave them alone.
A Spanish, paid for by Don Salvador Moxo, who had replaced Cevallos as a trip east to the Peninsula, I get seduced Kingstown in one of the servants of Bolivar, and one night, getting closer to the hammock I used to sleep, steel nail his murderer in the heart of the person who was lying there.
Bolivar launched by the victim woke up, he arrested the criminal and give the justice, the confession of cheating oida server condemn him to suffer the supreme penalty.
The Liberator and a friend emigrated from Caracas, Amestoz called, used to sleep in the same room.
The first lay in a hammock and the second in a bed.
But that day, when the heat was extraordinary, having been Amestoz retired earlier lay in the hammock while his friend was returning.
She picked the dream, and Bolivar on arrival, not to bother, took the bed was empty.
This casual exchange saved his life
