We're on the case to clarify the indications of hellebore, all indications are well characterized and is not perhaps possible to find in the medical field of supply means to their effectiveness: 1. º in Asiatic cholera and the Indians in the large and fast disturbances digestive functions, although the result of indigestion, but there are evacuations repeated and more or less numerous from vomiting and diarrhea, that the subject of these evacuations is watery, not produced, with white lumps in the liquid supernatant, character of bowel movements confirmed cholera, which is pale, cold extremity in the skin that turns earthy and flabby; the eyes are sunken, surrounded by a blue circle, and presents cramps of the extremities.
Vomiting and droppings alvine would only confirm more and more the need of hellebore.
There are still ataxic fevers and serious nervous disorders, with long and violent cold, heat, limited to the viscera, or also concentrated on the head or chest, and characterized by palpitations and distress, and, in the stomach and intestines, by a profound disturbance of the innervation and manure for repeated cold sweats in the head just a few times, with spasms muscle or general convulsions, and sometimes violent pains in a column about vertebral or elsewhere, and the lack of debris.
In these cases, may be preferred camphor and its action as readily be useful, if no evacuations or not dominate the scene.
Hellebore makes women menstrual evacuation trifles, when a cold glacial the extremities or the skin in general looks like it contains the catamenial flow.
This medicine is also very useful in some vomiting of blood, with very cold exterior, accompanied spasms, anxiety, palpitations and heat inside.
In similar circumstances, hellebore should uncontrollable vomiting in pregnancy in epileptic seizures, in whooping cough, in hysteria, in asthma, in the latter two cases there is thirst and diarrhea after dinner, and all indications of this medicine can be seen small pulse and frequent, sometimes almost extinguished; cold exterior, hoarseness, cold sweats, muscle weakness and great depression, even when the condition lasts only two or three days, emaciation, sunken eyes, cold skin, wrinkled, without elasticity.
Dry cough and hoarse with spiders or tingling in the throat, usually without noticeable symptoms, sometimes cured with hellebore, and only, and alternating with nux vomica or the sundew.
It is also effective in dry coryza ozena with slight swelling of the nose with periostitis, in some diarrhea caused by cold drinks, headache and great weakness hysterical hemicráneas muscle excess hunger in nursing; disposition to fade after having out of an acute, severe, dyspepsia with vomiting and constipation food rebellious, or just the latter, people are always hungry and they are filled promptly in hypochondriacal and maniacs.
In hypochondriasis with extreme weakness and anguish, and strangulated hernia, can hellebore, because it does not heal, a change that facilitate the action of other medicines, or administered in large doses, develop a pro-development disturbance row of special effects, as seen when used in certain hobbies with agitation and delirium, in madness essential to lubricity, constipation, tympanitis, horripilation and jumping muscle.
Be made for the distinction in constipation and diarrhea of hellebore, that this and vomiting exist when the brain is not affected, while constipation requires that the effects of the medication you have been disturbed and this delirium, hallucinations, or that there is a state of tension in the nervous system relationship is as compressed by violent neuralgia, with despair.
These neuralgias the hellebore are presented accessibility are dislacerantes, and general phenomena are: prostration sweating or cold, rigors, anxiety and heart palpitations, although there feeling cold, warm bed aggravates them.
Hellebore, in short, is most suitable in pain headache and headache with cold at the apex, or with a sensation of cold and heat alternate, which headaches in the heat, beat and symptoms of congestion. = Dose .=-- generally be preferred lower dose, from 2 to 3 drops of the tincture even some blood in the third and Eighteenth attenuation.
These amounts are given by fractions more or less repeated, according to the urgency of evil.
It is not for this work to try violent effects of elimination, the purgative doses, emetic, and other indications spreading of the law of similars, but only, of the dose, which, though considerable, are apt to develop special effects that are within the purview of this law therapy.
Zinc (ZINC). § I. - History.
The zinc metal and zinc oxide are the only experiments and whose effects are similar, so we only attend these two substances reuiniéndolas under the same name.
We believe, however, that the action of various zinc salts have enough similarities accurate with the metal and its oxide.
The zinc oxide was the only previously used in elephantiasis, smallpox, whooping cough, nervous asthma, the chronic heartburn, hysteria, chorea, epilepsy, seizures partial ophthalmia, fetid ulcers, chapped skin, lips and nipples, in the excoriation of children and some deterioration of sight.
Zinc sulfate has been preferred gonorrhoeae injections, and nerve and eruptive fevers, palpitations, neuralgia, tetanus .....
Zinc preparations in general were regarded as antispasmodic and antiherpetic and dried but merely nominal indications of disease for which they advocated were so vague, which is completed by to forget almost everything and considering the zinc as an antispasmodic unfaithful. § II .-- physiological and therapeutic effects.
The effects of zinc express their positive properties.
Its action on the nervous system elective lymph node is not in doubt, for she explanations the particularities of their effects on the nervous system and the circulation ratio, and it shows their influence on the skin and mucous membranes.
This elective action of zinc is depressing, almost to the abolition of physiological orgasm: the sensation of cold penetrates to the bone, there are violent tremors throughout the body, weakness excess, the reluctance to move, numbness, the sensation of cold leads to this state by an exaltation of sensibility and contractility, and in spite of all symptoms have a tendency asthenic, is also preceded by other symptoms of irritation blood without peer and an asthenic character and venous.
The exterior local conditions demand the use of zinc mainly within, but be very convenient in injections, lotions or ointments, and in these cases, and is being used zinc oxide or the inside, you can easily use the exterior zinc sulfate.
These metastases, we say in passing, sometimes consist of dangerous repercussions, impact is also frequently observed by the use of sulfurous mineral waters, whose action, in people herpes is very remarkable, and yet rather neglected by Unfortunately.
Deputies and the Academy of Jurisprudence and Legislation Plaza del Príncipe Don Alfonso, no. 8, Madrid.
ALVAREZ DE ARAUJO AND NECK.
An atom in 8. º, 16 rs.
in Madrid and 19 provinces, postage paid.
Method abridged condom instruction and homeopathic treatment Cholera-epidemic morbidity, Madrid, 1854.
A brochure at 8. º, 4 rs.
in Madrid and 6 provinces postage paid.
The sides of the body, as also the affinities of drugs.
Work translated from German into French by Ph.
de Molinari, individual Societies homeopathic medicine in Paris, Belgium, Holland, and other scientific societies.
Poured French to Castilian, Dr.
Ant Alvarez-Peralta, individuals in society Hahnemannian Matritense, the Philanthropic Society of Paris-magnetic, etc. 1857.
At 8. º, 4 rs.
Madrid and 5 provinces, postage paid.
Homeopathic treatment, preventive and curative Cholera epidemic; instruction popular guide that can serve in the absence of a doctor.
Translated from French by Dr.
An atom in 8. º, 12 rs.
in Madrid and 14 provinces, ex- note.
Homeopathic Manual of Obstetrics - Relief that homeopathy can provide art of deliveries.
A volume of 12. º, 16 rs.
in Madrid and 18 provinces, postage paid.
Hustler homeopaths and Dr.
A brochure 8. º, 6 rs.
in Madrid and 8 provinces, postage paid.
An atom in 4. º, 16 rs.
in Madrid and 20 provinces, postage paid.
Cholera, homeopathy and allopathy, or whether rules of hygiene, preventive and curative which may be useful to consult before and after the anger has begun to voice their effects.
A volume in 18. º, 10 rs.
in Madrid and 12 provinces, postage paid.
Methodical and practical treatise Materia Medica and therapeutics, based on the law of similar, translated from French into Spanish for the teacher and homeopath D.
Madrid and 46 provinces, postage paid.
Homeopathy basic studies and practical applications for use by physicians, clergy, religious communities, families, etc., translated into Spanish under the direction D.
Homeopathy at the reach of everyone; translated from French into Castilian.
An atom in 4. º, 8 rs.
in Madrid and 9 provinces, postage paid.
The poisoning or malaria .-- paludiana full Treaty intermittent fevers, senders and continuous, the neuropathy, cachexia and other diseases that occur by malarial miasma with medical geography of Spain in its relations with these conditions: by D.
Anastasio Garcia Lopez, former inmate of the Central School, medical director of bathrooms minerals, etc.
An atom in 4. º, 24 rs.
in Madrid and 28 provinces, postage paid.
Practical Treatise of Magnetism, or a summary of all the principles and procedures used to this day, translated into Castilian by D.
A volume, 24 rs.
An atom in 4. º, 14 rs.
Homeopathic Physician's Manual, or homeopathy to everyone.
In 18. º, 26 rs.
in Madrid and 30 postage paid through the mail.
Exposition of the homeopathic medical doctrine, ú Organon of the healing art.
Third edition, arranged at the French sixth, and augmented with life and portrait of the author, published by Dr.
An atom in 4. º, 22 rs.
in Madrid and 26 provinces postage paid.
Homeopathic Therapeutics of the Diseases of Children, translated from German to French, with notes, by Dr.
Leon Simon, Jr., and French into Castilian under the direction D.
Roman Fernandez del Rio, MD, surgery, etc..
Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia, fifth edition translated from the German.
An atom in 8. º, 6 rs.
in Madrid and 7 provinces, postage paid.
Pio Hernandez and Thick, homeopathic doctor, professor homeopathy in the Spanish Institute, founder of the Institute homeopathic, etc.
Madrid, 1863. 2 volumes in 8. º marquilla .-- .-- SECOND EDITION (In press).
Homoeopathic domestic medicine of the people.
An atom in 8. º, 26 rs.
in Madrid and 30 provinces, postage paid.
Domestic homeopathy, or Guide to families so that their individuals can homoeopathically themselves treated in most cases, and the urgent and serious provide effective aid to the sick until the arrival of a homeopathic physician, by Dr.
Third Spanish edition, under the last edition published by the same author (which is quite different from above), and to the fourth French edition; translated into Spanish, reviewed, edited, annotated and considerably increased, by D.
Angel Alvarez de Araujo and Cuellar, honorary member of the Homeopathic Medical Society of France etc.
The enlarged part contains: a brief exposition of the doctrines medical, general notions hygiene; news on the climate of the West Indies and the Philippines, rules of hygiene and acclimatization, to be observed in them by the Europeans; foods they are allowed and forbidden being sick, treatment to be followed in most dreaded diseases of those countries of the Americas in general, Asia and the coast of Africa, and in some other cases of illness common in certain provinces of Spain, such as suette, etc., etc., anthropology, temperaments and medications that are appropriate and to the different ages and sexes; prophylaxis of hereditary diseases.
Unique work of its kind.
A volume of 8. º, more than 700 pages, good printing and paper eSCelente.
It sells at 24 rs.
in Madrid and 28 in provinces, postage paid.
Homeopathic Physician's Guide to the bedside and repertoire of homeopathic therapy.
Translated from German into French by Dr.
Leon Simon, son, and this in Spanish, by D.
New manual of homeopathic medicine.
Part I: Manual of Materia Medica, or Summary of the main effects of homeopathic medicines, with a display of the observations clinics.
Part II: Code therapeutic or symptomatic, or alphabetical tables the main symptoms of homeopathic medicines with clinical alerts, translated from Castilian French to the last edition, by D.
Silverio Rodriguez Lopez, homeopathic physician.
Second Spanish edition.
Madrid, 1858. 4 volumes in 8. º, 80 rs.
in Madrid and 96 provinces postage paid.
