This, and a vanity tantico that was awakening in the soul of Peace, led to his father to remove the convent school, but even if wanted to do it with great tact and restraint, finally had to be strong, because the holy women had tried to attract the will of the child. "We led this goodness of Peace? "Aspires to conquer your precious voice to the chapel?
Have you heard what we discussed?
because I have it there all upset. - When you want. - Tomorrow.
Of those who never speaks, and progressive in the former, but very rich.
Luis came suddenly. - I like punctuality.
He wore a homemade costume too simple, white, short, ornaments orphan whose sleeves discovered arms: it showed vented and free neck, wet hair to the temples, and the complexion something on, as struck by the cool water.
The figure stood out clearly on the dark curtain, fantastic drawing resembling character.
Sorpendida to see that Don Luis was not alone, paused hold the door handle, wondering whether forward or back. - Nuisance? - No, daughter, enters.
Pepe, who was preparing to leave, the greeting, she answered her, and taking from the table a newspaper and began to read.
The scene was quick, almost silent, appearing to her and say goodbye it occurred at a time. "How pretty!" - Pepe was said then to set in motion, either the little garden gate of the house.
During successive mornings, Don Luis came in several times to see how the boy had their work, which was rife recently, because the time that happened there was short.
The cabinets were filling, however, and Don Luis noted that at the same time keeping the books, Pepe took note of them in a large cards to form an index.
Paz also went once to find his father, and came to change Pepe trite phrases.
One day spoke of the time, another of a recent criminal attack Kings.
The language of it was himself a well-educated young lady did not scorn to converse with those whom fortune has not espropicia: the Pepe was respectful, almost timid, step-made man so well put houses or dealing with women's appearance so aristocratic.
Peace one day, already dressed to go out with her father, was waiting at the office, while Pepe, with the door open communication, writing in the fourth of the ballots books for the index.
Paz read a newspaper, standing next to a balcony, Pepe, seizing the opportunity, looked at her slyly, between feathered and plumed.
Her figure without artifice that overly oppressed, had to change positions accused movements slender shapes of curves admirable.
Hair, almost black, collected and smoothed with extreme modest, benefit the white and gold matte complexion, enlivened by fine and blue veins.
Factions very funny and often without malice, formed a mobile face and animated such as those seraphim Goya, inspired by the mischievous face of the daughters of people.
The eyes, deep blue and clean, bringing to mind the serene evening sky of Granada, and the lips, sometimes biting white glazed lightly with a involuntary movement, appeared on a flower of hue.
The mouth, red like fresh wound, and clear blue eyes, inspired by different ideas, with the severity of his look, fantastic saves in defense of the sweetness of the lips.
Peace not feeling any noise in the room where Pepe was not even hit the books against tables, or the slip of the pen on paper, he looked toward the boy and was surprised at her, he lowered his head and continued writing, disgusted, fearful it seemed that the evil, and peace was diverted a bit from where I read, but of course no gesture of anger.
After a while, Pepe placing a book on your site, again look at her without her then I could see him.
Instead he looked at his pleasure, but suddenly came the voice of Don Luis who called his daughter, and when you release it to the newspaper, and very soon Pepe he wanted his eyes, he was surprised the second time Peace in the act of admiration, despite which saw him go shortly after, showed no anger in gesture or words, saying goodbye to him kindly.
Pepe, just to enjoy that gift of sight fortune offered him several times looked Paz, and she noticed it, no sign of displeasure, on the contrary, feeling some quiet satisfaction at this homage to the silent yielding a man crippled by his position to flatter her with hope for favors.
She also once watched him furtively, warning the boy not only had bad figure, but that was what was called a handsome man.
His face accused intelligence loyalty eyes, ie, met the main features of male beauty.
Then awoke in Peace little flirtation, did not seem bad those looks, and thankful the cult that began to receive, remained at the site where it was
