In vain he and Don Rosendo and friends who used to come to Tejada, invented a thousand excuses to make excursions.
While not refusing to face also accompany him to the deceptions came to stay forever at home, where descaecía visibly.
His uncle, Don Melchor often came to see him and advised him who were to travel for a while.
Did not refuse it, but I always postponed, pretending not in good health.
They left all the calculations failed.
Gonzalo was allowed to carry the town without comment.
But he put even more effort to isolate, to live retired social intercourse.
Left only at dawn, and gave some rides for the tip of the Pawn, watching the sea with ecstatic eyes, which once took an expression of anguish that will surely be sorry who's looked.
This was the question that made all the neighbors villa.
Nor was it easy for that to happen.
Are very few know the secret origin explained, the ultimate root of human actions.
Some because they do not stand in psychology, judging useless, others endowed with understanding subtle and circumspect, because I take the opportunity to scrutinize the phone only concerned about uncovers no feelings that magical box, and desires, and hopes and contradictions that is called the human heart.
And yet nothing more true.
Staying in that house, it seemed that even they had not completely broken the ties that bound him to it.
Beings around him were his flesh and blood, still loved her, even if guilty, could not reviling in his presence.
Ventura had left in the rooms, furniture, part of his being.
On the dresser lay ointment jars and scents she used, half-consumed; on racks hung some of their coats and hats.
Its funny picture, her blonde head dazzling, looked like it would look behind the curtains.
The air was balmy even with their usual perfume.
One husband, so cruelly outraged, not wanting to realize it, breathed with delight the encouragement of his wife, and lived in the shadow of his life.
Still more, living in the hope of forgiveness.
This did not know anyone ...
he himself perhaps in a full ...
No one but Cecilia, whose love divining eyes, they read the vague thoughts that crossed your mind of his brother.
This expressed a preference for her so affectionate, such enthusiasm and reverence, it was very easy to confuse with love.
All companies, until their uncle, bother least of it.
Although it was delivered to a painful meditation, and the tears ran down her cheeks blanching, the appearance of Cecilia in his room, acted as a soothing, easing their pain.
Yielded to their advice with respect, and let himself be guided and pampered by her as a sick child.
When it took to go in his room, got impatient and gave loving complaints the same as a tired and wounded lover of love.
When he entered, his eyes never left for a moment, as if they were under the influence of a charm or fascination.
Those eyes expressing deep affection, gratitude, admiration, respect, enthusiasm, expressing all ...
Cecilia read it well.
I could not watch without feeling the same painful prick the heart, the same bitter drop of gall on the lips.
His spirit, always serene, turbábase for a moment, and appeared sometimes cold, sometimes irritable and enigmatic, with great surprise Gonzalo pain and was trying to cheer her up.
The thought that, fell into his brain like a stone in a lake, stirring the waters.
One day, suddenly entering the room of his brother, he found himself examining a revolver.
Seeing it tried to hide in the drawer of the table that was open and turned red. - What were you doing? - Nothing in this box to search for papers, I found myself with a gun that I no longer remember I had, and I was watching.
Cecilia did not believe a word.
Since experienced some concern that forced her to watch more than before.
It took two months.
The unfortunate young man, but persisted in the same secluded life dark, showed some vague signs of greening.
Once in a while out riding.
Had spoken to his father to make a trip to Italy, which still did not know.
Force that made up the sap back to his being withered, was a sweet thought, as sweet as embarrassing, carefully hiding around the world.
One day, superior of the Ventura advised that he had fled to asylum in company by all accounts, the Duke of lathes. "The great humanitarian," as he called the Faro On one occasion, he received the news with stoic courage.
Indeed, what was that purely worth individual afflicted him, compared with universal pain, with walking slow and sure of humanity to their destinations?
He dazzled his brains scrambled with its great historical synthesis, which helped him not a little to withstand the blow.
Sought, however, that his son does not hear the news.
I knew that you had not yet passed the ultimate ...
It will be the end of the one p. ..
Health is the first ...
than others and forget ...
Before he threw his cigarette end.
At a certain place, a wave stronger than the other bathed him entirely spray.
Waited in the same place for a while, to see if another equally strong, but not wine.
When he was at the end of the pier, lay face down on the parapet and watched with grim fixity waves arrived.
I was in the same place, was some years, had conversation with his uncle to inform him that he left Cecilia and he married Ventura.
The words of the old, harsh, angry, sounded again in his ears. "What reason was my uncle!" - He thought, without looking away from the sea. - Bah! - Murmured after a few moments - if a hundred times I saw you in that case, a hundred times would do the same.
It was, no, that beautiful night had fallen on his face also after talk to your uncle.
Then the radiant beauty of the sky, studded with stars, the clean glass of water, where Cabrillo moonlight, the soft breeze playfully they spoke a language of death, yes, but sweet, contained and intimate.
It was a friendly voice that invited him to rest.
But now I heard was a cry of despair, a threat: "Come, vente.
Death is very sad, but life is sadder still. " - Conclude - said, raising his head.
He moved the body, stretched out his arms.
At that time thought that self-preservation would make him swim safely, and stopped.
Their eyes met a looper quechemarín lying beyond down in the first spring.
Fell for her, the knife cut a piece of rope from a boat it is tied up, lifted his arms up the stairs athlete and a gymnast who would to show to the public of the enormous power of their muscles.
His body colossus opened a big gap there, which was closed immediately.
Extinguished the deep sea that spark of life, like many others, with relentless indifference.
A sailor who saw him from afar, he ran to the spot shouting - Man Overboard!
The new spread instantly through the town.
After he stumbled.
He brought a hook, and pulling him out afloat at the same time as Don Melchor, haggard, agitated, no hat, arrived at the pier the terrible news release. - Son of my soul - the poor old man shouted over the water to see the body of her nephew.
That show was deeply impressed all bystanders, among them were people of the two rival camps.
After the judge arrived and instructed the due diligence, placed on a stretcher the body, and transported him to his house, because Don Rosendo, who knew the story, as claimed.
It was a sad procession through the streets to the town.
Gonzalo enjoyed general sympathies.
Don Rosendo, possessed of sharp pain, he would not see the political corpse of his son.
He shut himself in his room, but decided that is placed in the best room of the house on a table covered velvet, which bring her flowers and wreaths everywhere, and prepare a funeral sumptuous.
Cecilia, one of those heroic efforts that were seasoned to do about his soul and body, lock learned his sentence at the bottom of the heart.
Veíasela livid, yes, but quiet, having the house you need to receive the body of his brother.
When she arrived, she helped to put on the site after it was shrouded.
Showered him with flowers, lit the candles, decorated the room with black crape.
After the body ruled that a Velascos Sister of Charity in her company.
They prayed on their knees for a long time.
As the nun left, alzose strongly.
And he took scissors, cut a lock of hair the head of his brother, who hid in the breast.
Cut after his other, and trembling and agitated, put it in his hands cross the body.
Y head down, covered his face with kisses inanimate.
The wife, the only real man's wife was unable to resist so much pain and fell to the ground unconscious.
FIN * * * * * = WORKS OF PALACIO VALDES = = The Master Octavio =.-- One vol. = Martha and Mary =.-- One vol.
Translated into French, English, Swedish, Russian and tchèque. = The romance of a patient =.-- One vol.
Translated into French, English, German, Dutch, Swedish and tchèque.
Spanish edition with notes and vocabulary in English.
Edit Spanish with English notes for the study of Spanish in England and the United States of America. = Riverita =-- A volume.
Translated into French. = Maxi = (second part of Riverita) .-- A volume.
Translated into English. = The Fourth =.-- One vol.
Translated into French, English, Dutch and Swedish. = =.-- A foam volume.
Translated into English. = =.
Faith A volume .-- Translated into French, English and German. = El Grandee =.-- One vol.
Translated into French and English. = The origin of thought =.-- One vol.
Translated into French and English. = The nice people of Cadiz =.-- One vol.
Translated into Dutch. = The Joy of Captain Ribot =.-- A Vol.
Translated into French, English, Dutch and Swedish.
Spanish edition with notes and vocabulary in English. = The Lost Village =.-- One vol. = Tristan, or pessimism =.-- One vol.
