Do you know who was the Lima the whiteness of your teeth?
As the jasmine, this was another industrious street selling certain real soft and juicy, that girls were entertained in biting rubbing on the teeth.
There are no jasmine or raiceros, and it is a pity, that to any, that they would fall over a municipal contribution to the games on the shaft, these times when even the dogs pay their share to exercise the right to bark.
And, with permission of you have also eclipsed the pajuelero or seller of sulfur sticks, the pot tips or seller of cigarettes, and other industrious anticuchero.
Digressions aside, and return to Mariquita.
The Lima of yore knew no barber or an occasional chestnut curls but flown in days of big ring or hot irons or foil, nor did he ever aceitillo, balms, glycerin and hair pomades.
But girls today say that water rots the hair root, and not in the mood to build brawl with them holding the contrary.
Drunkards also say they prefer liquor, because water breeding frogs and bugs.
Mariquita had his devil in his mop of hair.
His pride was wearing two luxurious tresses that, Zorrilla said painting the beauty of Eve The average size foot sole.
One night the moon was the Bridge Mariquita a glance at it, citing a smile that, saddled with a dig at the past, when suddenly a man took her by the waist, took a sharp knife, and zis!
Cries and confusion.
A Ladybug he fell into a tantrum, people ran away, was closing gates, palace and the news came that some pirates had come to the cheetah silence the mouth of the river and took the city by surprise.
In conclusion, the girl was mocha, and not make way to being called the bald Mariquita, is called good life, went into a pious and not talk about it again.
II How to braid her hair was the reason that Peru had an artistic glory The person who, by tantrum, had shorn Mariquita was a young man of twenty years, son of a Spanish and an Indian.
Baltasar was called Hawk.
His father had left some cuartejos, but the boy, head reel with the aforementioned female, was given to spend up to saw the bottom of the bag, which certainly could not be lasting as the five coins John Wait-in-God, aka the Wandering Jew.
Baltasar godfather was the guardian of San Francisco, monk of many bells and circumstances who, while professing great love to godson, took a three-hour sermon by learning the reason the young man brought into troubles.
The mayor claimed crime in the early days the person of the offender, but that was Mariquita meditate, but hang your enemy why not recover the loss had braid, or, more likely, that the influence of his reverence reached to turn their noses at justice, the truth is that the authority is not stressed Article of extradition.
Baltasar so distracted by his enforced monastic life, began to carve out a piece of wood and make it the busts of the Virgin, the baby Jesus, the Three Kings, and finally, all accessories mystery of Bethlehem.
Although the figures were small, the whole was lucidísimo, and visitors to the guardian propagated that it was an artistic wonder.
Encouraged by the praise, Gavilan was devoted to making life-size images, not only wood, but stone Huamanga, some of which exist in various churches in Lima.
Most applauded the work of the artist was a painful, we do not know if it still has in San Francisco.
The Viceroy Villagarcía, news of the merit of the sculptor, wanted personally convinced, and one morning went to the cell converted into a workshop.
Your Excellency, declaring that the palace had fallen short in praise, chatted familiarly with the artist, and he, encouraged by the friendliness of the viceroy, he said it bored him the closure, which was purged fed its absence in three years of convent life, and he longed wide field of freedom.
The Marquis scratched the tip of the ear, and replied that society needed relief, and that since the bridge had given the scandal, it was necessary in the Bridge shows a work whose merit hiciese forget the lack of man to admire the artist's genius.
And with that, Your Honor turned on his heel and took the road the door.
Five months later, in 1738, we celebrated in Lima, with solemn pomp and lavish festivities placement on the arch of the Bridge of the equestrian statue of Felipe V.
In the description of these parties have read, there are important praise is taxed the artist.
Unfortunately for his glory, not his work survived, for in the famous earthquake 1746, the collapse of a portion of the arch, the statue fell to the ground.
And here we enter a curious coincidence.
Almost at once fell from his pedestal bust of the monarch, in Lima recibióse news of the death of Felipe V as a result of lightning stroke, which is as it were an earthquake in the body.
III Of how a sculpture given to the sculptor's death The Augustinian fathers brought forth, until shortly after 1824, the famous procession Thursday Santo, which ended after midnight with no little commotion, fuss of old and escape girls.
More than twenty were the poles that made up the procession, and the first one was a perfect picture of Death with his scythe and other necessities, superb work of the artist Baltazar Gavilán.
The day gave the last Hawk to the skeleton hand went to his studio and many religious characters of the country, earning enthusiastic and unanimous approval on good job performance.
The artist reached a new triumph.
Balthasar, from the time he lived in exile in San Francisco, was delivered with passion the cult of Bacchus, and it is known that his best effigies carved in a complete state of intoxication.
I recently read a great article about Edgar Poe and Alfred de Musset, entitled Alcoholism in literature.
Baltasar can give you a topic for another letter titled Alcoholism in the fine arts.
Alcohol retempering the spirit and the body of the artist, was the nymph Egeria, for speak.
Idea and strength, feeling and truth, everything was Baltasar at the bottom of a glass.
To celebrate the successful completion of the work entrusted to the Augustinians, and went Baltasar with their friends over bocce ball and took a Turkish sovereign.
Holding onto walls could, at ten o'clock at night, returning to his studio, took flint link and straw, and lighting a tallow candle threw clothes on the bed.
At midnight he woke up.
The dim light gave off a strange reflection on the skeleton placed at the foot of the bed.
The grim reaper's scythe seemed built on Balthazar.
Appalled, and under the stultifying influence of alcohol, refused to recognize the work of his hands.
Gave horrible screams, and neighbors going understood, by the incoherence of his words, the hallucination that was the victim.
The great Peruvian sculptor died insane on the same day that ended the skeleton, whose merit art still speak with great appreciation the people in the early years of independence, attended the procession of Holy Thursday.
Then there is the origin of it, just as I have been referred by a descendant of the protagonist.
I In one house in the Rue de Aparicio lived for years in 1760 Mrs.
Owns a farm in nearby valleys the city and the bakery Serrano, was in the backyard two vast warehouses which sold for more flour, sugar, oil and other commodities for general consumption.
Dona Feliciana's husband three years ago that he went to Ica to establish a branch of Lima's house, leaving the lady in front of many business operations, and as if God is pleased to put his blessing on the Lima working in business terms hand was placed a gain crazy.
Finally the end, rogues taxes remained and, grunting and grumbling, there's pay anyone taking law in their neck, no ambitions put in intimate relationships with the executioner
