The countryside, highly cultured, have a very abundant population, robust, vigorous and lover of work, while the passionate pleasures.
Quite the reverse of Castilian regions, loneliness is not manifested at any point in the province of Seville, abound and the small towns of 1.000 to 4.000 souls.
However, they do note some considerable cities, centers of a vast agricultural production is mainly wine, oil, cereals, grains, livestock of all kinds, vegetables and fruits.
The most notable of these, cities are: Sevilla, which has (even the new suburbs outside the fortifications) 112.600 inhabitants Ecija, with 28.800 Carmona, with 18.800.
Osuna 17.500 Utrera, with 14.000 Marchena, with 13.000 Alcalá de Guadaira, with 8.260 All these people although they are primarily agricultural centers, feed a crowd manufacturing, factories and workshops of all kinds, which increase the animation of the country, and we give a lot of economic interest.
Sevilla alone has some large branches and factories manufactures special importance, - such as its superb casting of guns and cannons, their nitrería, and especially its vast manufacturing of cigarettes (by the State that is), which gives 4.000 labor to workers, establishment worth a visit with pleasure and interest.
The Guadalquivir describing a semicircle around a large part the precincts of the city proper, screened and enclosed by walls, it is said, dates from the time of Caesar, and numerous Isolated strong today are useless if only by their obvious inferiority about the progress of the strategy and architecture brutal selfishness, isolation and death.
On either side you look at all interested in its quirks and contrasts funny, and the details stand out.
At around the nine suburbs, which only one, the de Triana, inhabited by Gypsies, which is the most populous, is at the margin right of the Guadalquivir, linked to the city by a beautiful suspension bridge.
Very close bridge on the port itself, stands the lovely golden dome of the Torre de Oro, which seems glittering scaly.
At the foot of the Giralda tower we saw the great mass of the cathedral and romantic, whose dark Gothic style and color made her look a granite mountain shattered in one hundred peaks, needles, bold arches and huge cracks.
It was like an extinct volcano, imposing Fear for no majesty of its great time-blackened rubble.
Next of the cathedral, the splendid palace of stone and marble called the Market or Bolsa, which was the famous "House of Trade" for the India trade.
The beautiful little further called the Alcazar Moorish monument, surrounded by delightful gardens which are themselves Sevilla treasure.
And far beyond even the immense edifice of tobacco manufacturing, Modern and elegant palace of San Telmo (owned by the Duke of Montpensier) to the edge of a vast and beautiful park that stretches on the left bank of the Guadalquivir.
Looking in another direction, is in the suburb of San Roque the monument called Canos de Carmona, impressive Roman aqueduct of 410 arches, and to one side the great factory of saltpetre, in the suburb Resolana of the beautiful hospital of Charity and the Arsenal, in the splendid Macarena military hospital, and St.
Else is a labyrinth of narrow winding streets, buildings uneven, capricious, many bizarre shapes of them, whose swarm centenarians coconut trees stand and Historical, many exquisite palaces or houses of the same style as those observed in Cadiz, and a lump of balconies, roofs, turrets and Moorish buildings, brownish glow at the bottom of the towers and domes of many churches in Arabic style, shining, picturesque on account of the flake-shaped roofs formed with small tiles mixed colors.
Add to the interest of the thousand details of the delicacy of the interior vegetation, and include the beauty of that pangram semi-oriental and semi-Spanish at the same time.
The orchards and gardens are numerous, not only in the suburbs but also in the center of the city, carefully kept in the courtyards.
So, are the masses of the buildings as a huge trail of uneven rocks amid a sea of ??pomegranate, orange, lemon, and millions of jasmine flowers that fill the air with perfume.
Sevilla deserved his fame: is a haven of greenery and curiosities of all kinds. * * * * * After having a general idea of ??the Andalusian metropolis, as a material object, we descended La Giralda to go and observe the customs of their society.
Walking the streets, penetrating in cafes and hotels, visiting the elegant homes and gardens, and scanning monumental objects Sevilla abounds, it recognizes the essential point type or characteristic of that society, ardent and poetic for its blood and its climate, independent and proud by being that it seeks to actively work, and passionate in the extreme.
Sevilla is a huge museum, in the full force of the word, and materially and morally.
The feeling artistic background of the character is from Seville, in all classes of society - now disclosed in the construction of sumptuous elegance, now in the candid demonstrations - and predominant taste (simple or refined) in the customs and usages, simply because the picturesque and rudimentary.
At the bottom of everything that lives there and stirred, as the inanimate, a manifestation vigorous poetry, a tendency to wonder, expansion sentimental, he can not escape the observer.
There is a trait that does not attend to impress the foreigner in this regard .-- The thousand beauties of the houses belonging to wealthy families, where marble, flowers and decorations and colors vivid and seductive are lavished, the grace and freshness of the thousands of yards, that summer nights are converted into classrooms, the care with which many are preserved scented gardens and orchards, where the waters abound not stop jumping ever, the enthusiasm that all manifest: for the naive paintings and sculptural objects, either regardless of their quality, the thousand funny quirks of all the portals, balconies, cabinets, viewpoints air and the barred windows (which make such an important role in the adventures love or mere gallantry), the luxury and artifice of the shops and stores, glittering of workmanship, jewelry, silks, art and trinkets, the taste for variety, apart the requirement of the climate, is an art, whether it is made, either through their use; passion for bullfighting, theater, horseback riding, tightrope walkers and all games ios class entertainment, love the game, under almost all its forms, passion in that work of art, in a sense, and taste so wonderful, unexpected, or random, the unique energy penchant for the picturesque and outstanding, which is manifested in folk dresses, whether by their forms, either by their ornaments or by a combination of bright colors and shining; charm with all the music they love happy and passionate, passionate dancing, horseback riding and careers, fairs, processions, etc., the strange forms and motifs of gear riding, weapons and musical instruments, the sum abundance of shops, factories small and workshops, where thousands of employees work (isolated or in small groups) the making of a thousand works of art: all that and some other circumstances that step high artistic express deep feeling of Seville.
And it can not be otherwise, considering how powerful the influence they exert on moral education of a people the nature and objects around him constantly and impress.
The Seville, at birth, is the notion of beauty and inspiration of poetry in all which is in sight.
A wonderful sky with a sun that warms and enlivens the blood., A prodigious fertility land, giving as they are required, a vegetation essentially poetic; such as olive and orange trees, lemons and pomegranates, water and perfumes in abundance for give joy and pleasure, an easy life, thanks to the topographical conditions of the country, wine (The great tempter that incites pleasure) good, strong and in abundance.
On the other hand, monuments and race predispose to the love of art.
From start to march, to live, everywhere are wonderful monuments, beautiful on the outside and filled with treasures inside, and beautiful faces are observed.
I have not ever seen a race so strongly beautiful as that of Seville, and I think it will rival in Europe, if not in some regions Eastern Hungary and in some provinces of Italy.
The beauty is so general in the types of Seville that is almost vulgar.
There is no severe Spanish beauty majesty or beauty impassive and cold of the English, or artificial grace (somewhat intentionally) of the French, nor the harsh and almost brutal beauty of Valencia.
The man is generally of high stature, - the wife of small-regular if Height .-- Despite the differences that determines sex everywhere, there are certain features that are common to men and women in Seville: forms slender, thin but strong; black hair, silky and shining, rarely curled, finely arched black eyebrows; upper teeth and very white, a soft complexion and ruddy brown color, very attractive; very dark eyes, vivid, intelligent and quickly go through the 1st of more Ardentía more passionate tenderness to the smiling and friendly, a ride full of abandonment and grace, naturally faddish and as tempting without malice, the lilting voice, soft and sonorous, accented dramatically at the end of predictions, and always passionate interjections and salt idioms provincial - not counting the popular pronunciation that changes the sound of 1st r, 1st l, 1a s, The 1st z, etc.
in the most original and spicy - these are the general features of type Seville.
Women are sweet and friendly, although there are in your face I know not what of manly without affectation.
The man has some rough, very East, which attracts or afraid in the manner as it question.
If you are looking to an Andalusian Seville for good, with refinement and courtesy, although it belongs the vulgar, found him friendly, expansive, very attentive and obliging.
But if instead of one of those geniuses Atrabiliarios occurs with a boastful type Andalusian (which abounds so much), the altercation have different proportions: it is a struggle of words mountains where the alien who does not know While the country may be completely mystified.
On hearing the Andalusian throwing bravado, you would believe able to swallow the Sierra-Nevada and unhinge the world with a kick.
Is formalized, twitches, shouts, threatens, roars like a cannon and looks like a fury ....
Le cojeis the word, showing that not afraid, and then the lamb is lion, makes you a thousand blandishments, laughs, makes him all joke ("binge") and invites you to grab a drink with the utmost cordiality.
The Andalusian, and perhaps more than all the Seville, is frank and jocular, yet lightweight helmets: a bad word, a quizzical look, a gesture is enough to cause doubt a complaint noisy.
Fortunately, though often the business is arranged with knives or at least to the more slaps and punches, usually gruff and blustering storm ends a reconciliation at the pub, sworn on the bottle in a puff of smoke, snuff, maybe the sound of the guitar.
HOWEVER, there is a question not ever fix (at least in the world of bullfighters, and manolas majos) but by ways in fact or by giving up absolute: it is the matter of love, which often is only a matter of vanity or dot.
The Seville of that class does not support even a glance at his girl upstart addressed or your pretty girl, as they call them.
If a husband is sometimes tolerant and more human, as a lover leads to the ferocity of jealousy or ridicule.
This proves that the vanity goes a long, and very little true love in the energy with which to defend its possession or monopoly.
We look upon his "girl" or pass by the bottom of the window once and spear, to the second makes you frown sullen; to the third I said with anger and stress provoking: "- Eh, mister! (Or Camarda) who encounters me bujca me!
If you peel ujté me eye to EJTA girl another sees, and know that it could occur to chicoteo, ú chicotéamo us!
That if they want sarba er Burt er ujté road and take to another party with music. " And strength is giving up the company, failing which the knife into action to support with their arguments, the intimation of Andalusian jealous.
The inclination to gallantry (and his many consequences) is very general in Seville.
The 'Gate' or window on that makes a very important and traditional.
If you walk down the streets you after six o'clock in the afternoon, wherever you will see scenes that will give idea of ??comedy da hilt.
I had often heard this phrase in Colombia, with a very different meaning.
There is called stripping the kettle to be idle, wasting time when it is bound to a work or task - as the pawn suspending work for bed or get to chat free trade.
In Spain, the turkey strips in a more entertaining and promising, since operation is to make the cut for the fence or window to dear or beloved.
I think it must have a great abundance of turkeys in Seville, because there so many strip.
No matter what fans or friends of both sexes are free to look and talk at all hours, within or outside the home.
The kettle is always peeling, because they want the gallant manners.
The next terrible reproaches hear, you will find an angry frown, or very indifferent and cold, when no sobs, tears and complaints reproaching ingratitude and wrongdoing ....
I frankly laws that severely restrict the kettle individual autonomy of Andalusia, but I find them his poetic side and attractive.
There are customs that are not already, but in Spain, where Orientalism and feudalism have left very deep roots.
The matador does today often the troubadour of the old days.
