Monsalud had not gone four steps inside the building when she was called from everywhere opposites.
He went where he had seen faces more to his liking, and after greeting several individuals sat on the farthest table in the company of two subjects.
One of them seemed Salvador have with standing and close friendship as they greeted with much affection.
Was median age and good looks, was called Don Eugenio Aviraneta: his home had Guipúzcoa and had a very special talent of the conversation quality is not rare in Spain, where they have made great careers know or refer it to tell stories with art or raise issues and issues of all kinds.
The other was younger, fucking pale olive, hair and eyebrows of the greatest darkness, the sharp nose short and thick mustache, modeling the knife in a unique manner under the most ridiculous fashion imaginable, which was to draw two straight lines from the nostrils to extremes of the mouth, drawing a small mustache and carefully carried the name triangular of mucus mustache.
He also wore the olive character a knob-tail rabbit and cheeks pin or short ribs, also shaped by the knife with a dedication that almost came to the office of a rapist confused with the art of sculpture.
This and the short mechoncillos accompanied toupee over his ears were cries declaring that the auction and crowning of this singular head had to be one of those huge helmets base narrow and extremely wide cap, visor and chinstrap fine suspended copper sides faceplate.
The Morion such immeasurable was watching, yes, over the head of that good lord by force of analogy, but was discovered and wear civilian clothes.
But if a thread gets a ball, usually on one side also removed a Morion, and thus could mouthful to say to our guy was more by token military and Ayacucho. - I present to you my friend Captain Rufete - Aviraneta said putting his two relations comrades -.
Now tell us something, tell us what is in your life, man.
Then you are rich no one sees you.
Spoke at length of things in life, travel, hunting, disease, and without knowing how magna stood on the question of the day, namely, that the King did not die so soon as some crooks wanted, it was decided solemnly swear Isabelita as heir to the throne, and the good-natured D.
Carlos was leaving for Portugal.
Filmed the conversation from idea to idea, until Aviraneta Salvador touched on the arm and said mysteriously: - If you want to take care of a delicate mission, there is no objection to confide. - I know that conspire, "but by whom? - Salvador said laughing - Why Cristina, D.
Carlos or both at once? - You know me and know that my wings not to fly any bat.
I committed to explore the minds of liberal people to know under what conditions could have her in case of a civil war. - The free - ayacucho said with emphasis - are and will always be next to the Princess Princess if you put a pillow in her crib the best codes.
Free Calling the Liberals and the best codes to the Constitution of 12 constituted with many other phrases, a special style that has long prevailed in all forms advanced literary party. - Calle you, man, for God's sake - said Aviraneta scolding with a gesture of spontaneity Captain -.
The free, as you say, and liberals, as I call them, are as divided no two opinions you hear the same if you talk to them.
There are plenty of fools who can not be started from the head as the best of the codes, there are some crooks solemn than malice and having to face the mob, scream, if allowed, the constitution or death; is the group of anilleros or scholars, who deny all if not given the two Houses with Charter, French, and even think anyone wants to see three houses, not to seem quite two.
Some ask who has a lot of religion while having freedom, while illuminated want to stop people from burning cowl and convents, so that deleted nests not afraid that the birds return.
I have both here and there and I found roughness is not easy to soften, and antagonisms can not be beat.
Martinez de la Rosa Toreno, Burgos and refuse to masquerade as much as revolution, always agrees Palafox with those of Calvo de Rozas, and Calvo de Rozas, together with Flores Estrada, has made a templadita constitution.
They want both, as good parents, if not preferred, say not count on them for anything.
Romero Alpuente and swear that exalted Constitution no more than the 12 across the globe, and make them succeed, though he weighs.
Come on, this is a menagerie, and I say the outbreak should war and great danger might come to that then come together and touching so many wills to an agreement on the final constitution, but had seven cameras and four bedrooms. - The sovereign nation - said ayacucho speak speaking as Solon - will decide in its day best suited.
A free people is not wrong. - With statements taken from the Gazettes, friend Rufete, low achievers.
I see that the divisions are deep, that the Liberal Party, being scattered and persecuted, not already have a fixed idea common and nothing.
The army, which before was a friend of the Constitution of 12, now goes to I have, and it is realistic to count on Spain and Llauder tempered.
Then he raised his finger to his mouth with a solemn air, and rose with a sign ordered his two friends to follow him, which they did willingly Rufete and Savior, one by discipline of conspiracy and one out of curiosity.
Going through a little door with the counter was, went to a small room dark and narrow, formed in the angled hole the staircase leading to terulias.
A dilapidated bank offered very hard and not very clean seat to the three individuals, and some coffee company dábanle a long beak, empty boxes, huge brooms and buckets for different uses.
That was the chemical laboratory from which flowed the inventive mixtures to which he owed his fortune the master of the establishment (the which, incidentally, was fervientísimo patriot) was where the growth is checked rations of milk, thank God created water, there were made from various substances European and Asian Mocha coffee, and there the pounds of sugar became arrobas from night to morning, the same as a quidam becomes minister.
They sat in what looked more like niche that room, and as they had no light, were not seen from outside and could see all that from the coffee went up to the highlands. - Here we can talk comfortably - said Gipuzkoa - and explain my idea and no one knowing.
To remedy the serious evil that formerly indicated, I have determined to establish a joint secret .... - I thought that - Salvador said interrupting her laugh the exordium of his friend's grave -.
In that we had to stop. - Shut up, do not judge what you do not know yet ....
A secret society called The Elizabethan or Elizabethan. - I insist on my view that the Patriots call Elizabethan - ayacucho said, demonstrating his accent and his hand stiffness strongly the importance he attached to the baptism of planned society. - The name must be short and simple. - We have the Mason on the ground - said Salvador - with its ridiculous mysteries, their formulas and folly. - No, no, son, there are no mysteries. - "Not initiation, or towers, or East? ... - Not at all. - "Not special vocabulary, or aprons? - Nothing, nothing. - No more than the oath of intentionally submit to the sovereignty of the nation - said Rufete. - Here is all current.
The partnership will work in silence, but without formula Masonic and call us by our names, although the acts and documents adopted conventional sign to designate them. - So the company is already operating? - Is being formed.
It takes one confidence and clever, going to Paris and London come to terms with the emigrants who left by and with people living abroad, and because I can not name name them. - Ya ...
and this go-between is needed .... - Correveidile not, but agent, that agent is needed you. - Well, I swear - Salvador said the jovial way - that if or Elizabethan society Elizabethan Patriots, as claimed by Mr. ...
and I figure that it intends to reason .... - The idea of ??patriotism - Rufete said unable to contain himself - is so fundamental, to be take charge of all denominations, in order to save more and more on people's minds. - Well, he said - he went the other - if the company hopes to expand and prosper I be your agent, the trial will end without all the fruits that the country and you expect it.
Aviraneta mused, her cheek resting on his hand.
At every instant one heard the footsteps of climbing the ladder 7, and as this was weak and was so close to the heads of all three subjects, it seemed that they came over the house whenever a patriot would climb the upper rooms. - Damn! - Aviraneta said on the occasion coming up three, four lads getting more noise altar boys in loud ringing day -.
That's who spoil everything with their pranks.
Now the cute little angels, instead of sucking, are given in Flower to play in the Masons and Carbonaro, and between jokes and laughter are above their Cameras of honor and Horn, which makes several masquerades, which must be reported to the police.
They are almost all little boys want to make more noise than studying.
Is that a brood of speakers, if I mistake not, has to give Spain more rants that will Castilla chickpeas. - These birds singing - Monsalud said laughing - always come before the storms policy, announced his angelic trills.
you hear what so admirable body: it González Bravo, a young man terrorist smarter than Cardona and with more venom than a cobra ....
But back to our case, we, in founding the Elizabethan society, we aim to unify the thinking liberals and bring the army into a common idea is a common precursor. - The army is deeply divided - Salvador said - because I know that the apostolic camp or pug, as he now called, has recently made major acquisitions in the Royal Guard. - The military is liberal - said Rufete, which can not be silent any longer took the floor with a crash on the first opportunity -.
The army is composed of free men they love the most perfect of codes and hate tyranny.
And taking a little behind the hat, which should be shako of the inverted jar, put more yellow and accompanied his facial alteration of these patriotic words: - Many speak of the army without knowing it, and I, you know, I belong to him, that I glory belong to him, I say that with the exception of half a dozen of traitors, we are all liberalism, here and in America.
I've been in America, gentlemen, I have fought in those Colossal battles of Chuquisaca and Cochabamba, and I can say that nothing we consoled our deprivation and work like talking about the Constitution, to think about it and write it our flags to bend the knee to the bravest Indians.
I remember well that after of the famous expedition of Jujuí, we got the news of the triumph of the Constitution in Cabezas de San Juan, and we went crazy with joy.
Wanted, or that we bring to Spain or take us beyond the blessed Code, and may not be neither one thing nor the other, celebrate with parties, dances, poems and snacks that great event.
The joy was general.
Some we proclaim the draft Constitution in Peru but opposed Maroto traitor.
Soon we care know who did worst in America.
As for the army, we know that is mostly liberal, but you yourself have spoken of traitors, traitors were in America, and also in Spain. - Here I have the list - said promptly Rufete doing besides taking a role. - No, you do not remove the list.
Nor do we care so much now ....
also we need now the list of Elizabethan.
What I want is to bring to our ranks this good friend, give a commission that will play nicely.
Would willingly shed at the time of their services Rufete secretary, full of lists to be alone with Monsalud and speak frankly and discovered Well known to the wily conspirator had expressed his idea of ??a sick so enigmatic.
But Rufete not move, and the dubious clarity came in the fourth review was amusing their lists of traitors and their lists of Elizabethans. -VII- They were still, therefore, the boring one, the other coming up with reasons to dismiss the Ayacucho and flowing the third mode of passing a name of one role to another, when he entered the coffee a cavalry commander, making the saber creeping, with heel spurs and big bang, that it seemed as if a squadron had assaulted the facility.
He wore boots mud and dust on the suit, stating therein, as well as informality that went from table to table making news, who had just returned from an expedition or perhaps of a battlefield.
Rafael pseudocyst, exalted patriot first, then indefinite then prosecuted and convicted conspirator gallows, but pardoned again and admitted to the service through the influence of powerful relatives.
After satisfy the curiosity of coffee, and ran up, and upon entering the stairwell called his Aviraneta from its cache.
You know you who went to the Bassa column heading to pursue the lifting of eaglets Villaverde commanded by Colonel Campos traitor ....
At first we did to do ...
that here, over there ....
Total, gentlemen, five leagues Alares them Navahermosa surprised praying the rosary, I copamos ...
did not escape one for seed servers. - Do they shot to? - No orders to both.
The Government is conciliatory, or other pastry man, and one hand has other disciplines and the plaster.
As I am not fond of walking with butter case of those people, I would have given them all a little gun marrow.
On the other neighborhood are better than here ....
But now is not to shoot, they'll do when we caught underneath.
Overall, we brought them side by side, and the rascal is so cowardly Campos they began to mourn, and no one asked it revealed all the ille diebus Carlist Madrid meeting, citing names one by one.
At this time the traitor will be vomited all accusations to the police and walk and doing prison.
Middle Madrid will warm to jail tonight.
I have found in the Puerta del Sol to a squad, do not lie, yes, a police squad that went to the streets of Bethlehem, where it seems there is a maximum council subdeacons with a knife and stole guerrillas.
Total, gentlemen, we have looked the Bassa, and tonight will be aired many burrows.
With living Abur angelica and Gentlemen, I'm going up to dinner. - And I put the uniform on and run to the barracks - said rising hurriedly Rufete -.
Is easy to alter the public peace tonight.
