Well, look: their intentions can not be clearer.
Immediately took a plieguecillo for a letter, leaving a pensive moment as she thought, "The write, if not see you tomorrow. " Then, searching for envelopes, and have between them a larger and heavier, opened it, taking from him two or three letters and a portrait of women, Mademoiselle de creased Leocadia car, and staring a moment, murmured: "How beautiful is! "Then, without any noise distracted him, delivered with soul and life to your ideas, plieguecillo seized and began to write: Adoro Paz :...» II Pepe and Miller met in 1862, when at fourteen or fifteen years were enrolled in the Institute Novitiate first Latin.
For some time became addicted to mechanics, and every day they would see from a cutting put in turntables near North Station, another season gave the construction, entertainment lift rocks to see new buildings, then the industry showed fans, watching on the balconies of Rock Street guts of guts, and even made comments involve manufacturing in Toledo Round matches with strips of cardboard out to dry the sun.
Madrid corner was not not see, from Camp Guard to the Prairie Canal, and from the Source of Sales Teja to the Holy Spirit, or crossroads where no pass, one of his favorite pleasures examine places of Madrid described in old novels, swashbuckling to fourth delivery, in which learned to pieces and badly episodes that made them look at certain sites with a respect between ridiculous and poetic, taking for granted that Felipe II witnessed the murder of Escobedo from a portal the street from the Almudena, and commenting, as if they had attended the death of Villamediana near San Ginés and the adventure in which Quevedo challenged a gentleman who had hit a slap a woman.
A class of Geography and History of Spain liked to go, but in Latin and Religion not cast eyes on them but on rainy days, they did not know where to take the body.
Pressed in April and May, early June and returned home examined ovantes, with good note and the fright out of the body.
In this way, walking a lot and studying something, but his intelligence easily assimilated what they learned, became a compromise between sorbedor student text, usually at the end to be useless, and lazy pigra, which degenerates into rascal.
By 1868, he graduated from high school, and two young lady still casting compliments to the sewers, and shortly after their families determined to give career.
Both parents decided to study laws.
As Don Jose, who was the former Spanish and who had no serious profession but evidenced by academic degree, greatly influenced the memory of respectability to eyes had the judges and magistrates of Chancery and hearings as he walked from province to province as a humble employee.
He was aware that it had to cost many sacrifices, but yielded to the temptation to see his son made toga vuelillos character.
For him the law was the least: the lawyer said, could not imagine the guy defending lawsuits but administering justice.
Miller followed the example of Peter, as well as estimated it did.
The real life of students would not last long.
The misfortune was primed in a similar way home and the friendship of children, Founded in games and rides, was closer bond that came to misfortune.
Miller's father in the slums had a small printing shop where do favor a friend, threw several issues of a clandestine newspaper.
One night he was surprised the police, and closing the press took the owner to Saladero, where he remained, spending savings payment in a room until September 29, mobs took him slightly less than success with other political prisoners.
What he could not return justice popular, energetic but late money was lavished on warders and guards to avoid being disturbed, and the clerk to activate the cause, nor the parish lost with the closure of printing.
When the poor man was released from prison, consumed his fortune, had to resign an officer as a typesetter.
His years was hit too hard, and a chronic condition had in his eyes got so serious that it was impossible to continue working.
Look for me you work with my wages will be for two, at least for you, I need some. "
