The weaker the strong feeling of superiority, and humiliated in their presence, the genius is the heritage of mankind, is a privilege to few granted: who has exercised an influence over other irresistible.
It has been observed very true that the masses have a tendency to despotism, this stems from their feelings its inability to address, and naturally seek a boss that experienced in war and politics, is also noted in the sciences.
The generality of those who profess them are also masses are real common people who gave himself would not know what to do, for the same way to swirling around popular groups that speak of something better than he knows, and demonstrate knowledge he has not.
The enthusiasm in the populace also penetrates wise, and just as the other in their riots, clapping and shouting: "very good, very good! ...
you understand it better than us you will be our chief ....» § III.
Amendments have been in our age of scientific authority.
As widespread knowledge of the immense development of the press, has been given to believe that the phenomenon had disappeared, but did not: what he has done, has been modified.
When the warlords were few, when the command was among a few schools, understandings went way disciplined armies, being so obvious dependence that there was no mistaking.
Now it happens in another way: the leaders and schools in greater numbers, the discipline has been relaxed: the soldiers go from one to another field, these come on a bit, those are left behind, some separated and strive to skirmishes no instructions or orders from their bosses, it would seem that the great armies have stopped exist and that each place by his side: but ye be not illusions, there are armies spite of this disorder, all of which belong to well know, if you drop out of a join the other, and when they are in trouble, all retreated in the direction where they know they are the main body to cover their retreat.
And if we wanted to enter into detailed accounts, we would find that it is so accurate that the leaders are now in far greater numbers than in previous times.
Forming a classification table scientific and literary easily find that in each gender are very few carrying the flag, and his steps rushes the crowd now as ever.
The theater and the novel do not have a small number of notables, whose works are imitated to the annoyance?
and philosophy, which also struggled to enter between us, do not start with magisterial tone, demanding respect and deference, as a sacred ministry is directed to the conversion of ordinary people
