Ask me not, therefore, detailed descriptions of monuments and curiosities, which can be ad hoc in books written by artists, writers such as Theophile Gautier and others.
I could not study the Alhambra and other monuments as an artist, but under social point of view, only one can be at my fingertips.
Up the high hill on the left of the Darro, amidst narrow streets, dirty whimsical and almost ruined, had reached the foot of the monumental gateway that gives great entrance to the vast citadel or fortress of the Alhambra.
In all around skirt very steep plateau separates the hill from the depths of the Darro and high districts of the city.
Then, like a huge stone belt, start the circular sinus skirt the massive towers and great walls that isolate the plains, presenting on Granada's horizon like a crown of rocks and vegetable stands in the air.
In right of the front door up huge masses of the Citadel and the Tower Sailing: left Bermejas almost ruined towers.
Média between the two sides of a vast space, a deep as 60 meters in time of the Moors was saved by a bridge colossal, suspended in the air and had his temper or tips on the Alcazaba and Bermejas!
We entered, and a world of pomp and harmonies, and solemn memories and ruins and animation nature, offered to our eyes.
I had no idea, except in large forests Colombian vegetation of a similar luxury.
From the door towards the interior, in a extension of several hundred meters, stretches a forest of ancient trees and lush, under whose shade foliage is absolute.
That forest is divided into many magnificent streets macadamized, whose sides run and jump clear streams that form a delightful music.
Not a ray of sunlight penetrates beneath those domes where vague sacred genius of a race, extinguished an entire civilization ....
On the right, between halls of ivy and bushes and colossal elms, stand the walls and towers of the inner line of fortifications Alhambra separating itself from the vast gardens of the citadel.
Left extend some estates (including the very famous for a rich banker, Mr.
Calderon) cármenes or surrounded by orchards and gardens, where it holds all that is most delicate and beautiful of more aromatic and voluptuous vegetation Andalusia.
That paradise of scents, shadows, vegetables and harmonies is inhabited by hundreds of nightingales whistling softly when approaching night.
From the first point is the original looks, superb and picturesque.
The altar, located in the center of a vast circle formed by columns and forts that support the great dome of the temple is a sumptuous magnificence.
Noticing there a famous arch inclined creation imposed on artist daring the need perspective, and are in all the cornices and circular arcs a profusion of relief of great value that makes an excellent effect on the fund due to the cool artists remarkable, as the famous Palomino.
The Chapel of the Kings contains there between great wealth of ornamentation, two monumental tombs white marble, amazingly beautiful and delicate lines, his tremendous work and reliefs of unsurpassed artistic taste.
One of these tombs is that of Isabel and Fernando, with their bodies intact in relief, the other of Philip I and Juana la loca, equal conditions.
For the rest, the whole cathedral is full of beauties, its wealth of marble in all the floors, the altars and walls, is prodigious - as in all Spanish cathedrals (not always good taste in the distribution), and among many beautiful frescoes and ornaments of infinite oil paintings of merit enough, there are two small Murillo, one of Herrera multiple of the indefatigable old and Alonso Cano.
A curious sight caught my eye, traversing the city to outside, at request de la Cartuja, the Albaicin and Monte Santo.
I had promised to see the gypsies in their neighborhood and watch their strange dances amid the ruins of the Alhambra.
He had met one day in Jeneralife, the captain of the Gitano de Granada, talking to him for us hiciese prepare a dance, object causing much curiosity of travelers.
The captain, farrier by profession, had impressed me deeply, making me sympathize with his race.
Slim and restrained, with a face that seemed to dispute the typical expression, pride and humility feigned indifference and kindness, tall, thin and upright, wearing his coat with panache turns dark blue velvet crimson felt hat and leaning on something the forehead with a vibrant accent and soft, deep black eye, and burning alive, but ensured moments, and march safely and quickly, - the man offered me the kind a beautiful race, which has preserved in the midst of degradation in European tradition of the most beautiful race of India banned.
