The minute they were immediate, the first alighted, and unite them without waiting for the others, began the fire on some Indians, who separated the bulk of his army occupied and defended a short eminence of stone, where they were rejected instantly, and went to meet with others, in the top of the hill, which was where they had their charges.
So, there were no nearby Spanish Puno others that sought to invoke that with time the shadow of the trenches of that town, which was like a small island in the middle of Loyalty a sea of ??rebellion that surrounded on all sides.
Indian rebels Desaguadero Omasuyos and Pacajes rid of care that gave them the province of Chucuito, with total ruin of their capital, were warned to attack to Puno, in concert with those who occupied Lampa provinces and Azangaro.
This risky situation to the truth, compelled him Orellana to ask for some relief to the captain of grenadiers of the regiment of infantry veteran of Lima, D.
Ramon Arias, and colonel of militia, D.
José Moscoso, with a detachment of 500 Arequipa men had left, and lies nine leagues away alone, but only replied that they had no orders from their chiefs to cross, much less wanted to send ammunition and food she will buy, if that ground before; as executed, leaving the center to Orellana provinces revolted those without more resources than they had in the short-occupied premises, where he was alone, because Moya Governor was compelled to go to Arequipa to heal the wound as a result of he had received in the thigh in the attack of the day March 11.
This statement left see rebel Chucuito the day April 9, 1781, and until the next morning were marching to occupy the neighboring mountains that dominate to Puno.
Orellana had increased some defenses to resist.
He raised a tower at the site Guansapata advantageous, which placed a cannon and a mason, with the corresponding musketry for safekeeping.
Inside the villa reinforced trenches, and grew, opening new pits in places that seemed weaker.
I had three more guns, he did cast in all diligence, and sought to provide themselves with powder and ball, with which orders are hopes conceived to repel the rebels who tried to invade later.
In fact, the morning of 10 immediate woke up, forming a semi-circle on the hilltops, where attempted to seize a portion of livestock, leading to hostilities beginning this term and remove the subsistence of the garrison and neighborhood.
To avoid this highlighted companies of cavalry, and although they had the orders not to commit, could not contain, and rushed to the enemy: so that not only thwarted his attempt, but also evicted the land they occupied.
After the operation which had been referred to these companies, commanded bet Orellana outside the population, towards Chucuito Avenues because it was discovered that part the bulk of enemies, who were quick to lock them some lasting escaramusas until two in the afternoon, it came out to support part of the musketry, causing a fire continued on that liberalized.
From the turret of Guansapata and square are made also quite fire with artillery, whose shots coming with opportunity and success, caused some havoc on the enemy, who retreated to the most fearful eminent Orcopata hill, until with the approach of night ceased all hostilities on both part without the one we had perished, but many of his own, with a number who had significant injuries.
On the opposite side and Hill had been stationed Quicksilver from morning a party of enemies, who were kept in constant motion, gesturing to undertake the Indians Mañazo entire period of the attack others.
With the idea of cut and is not held in the other, Orellana gave the order for a task cavalry come out to attack them, which so aptly egecutó, which came at the same time Paucarcolla faithful Indians, and stay Guaca Moro, who took them from behind.
And to be sure but the try and force them to surrender, the position was reinforced with some pickets Rifles, who arrived very late and were unable to rise to be very rough and dangerous: they stated obstacles to retreat to the square, where some went very abused the hondazos who had received, which is why it took the provindencia of command the Indians stay faithful and maintain their position, and that the guard Mañazo the opposite slope until the next morning, they probably thought would be achieved, whether the low compliance and no warning of the chief had given them no Bastinza the means of escape.
Thus the second invasion resisted the village suffered Pano, and although the number of enemies that rushed, was not as great as in the first less the confidence was not taking it, but disappointed by the same method to withdraw at night, with only the difference of having followed their flight without stopping anywhere, for long afraid to come out the garrison in scope, as in fact he practiced Orellana it some distance, to prevent damage to suspicious egecutasen Icho Indians from the jurisdiction of the province, which until then had not missed to the fidelity, diligence fails, because when he came to this town, and had his throat cut to all the Indian revenge this inhumanity, the fidelity of their husbands who were enrolled in Pano, constantly following its legitimate sovereign flags .
