"Truly, gentlemen, he says, I do not know what the hell Tonight we had at home.
Occupied in dispatching some papers that I was in a hurry, I had gone to bed yet, when behold, at around midnight I hear a noise that I thought the house we came over.
What is cat could not be, because it was impossible for him to do such a crash, and also this morning nothing has been found, nor dislocated, or torn.
O'clock lights, I have not seen, but voices sounded so dreadful that I would have very nearly put fear in the body, is positive.
We'll see if the zambra is repeated: I am afraid that we wanted to play a trick.
I wish to surprise the actors play their part. " Since then the question changes its appearance, what was once improbable has become credible, the fact is true, just need to clarify its nature. § III.
Examination and application of the second condition.
If you should guard against the deception that may have suffered innocently narrator not matter less to be on guard against the lack of veracity.
To this effect will be well informed of the opinion that at this point enjoyed by the person, and above all to examine whether any passion the interest or impel to lie.
It's pretty clear the party take the speculator, if not dominated by rigid moral principles, gentlemanly delicacy.
So, who relates events whose truth has great interest or appearance, witnesses suspect, give credit to your word was very Thin proceed.
When we try to calculate the probability of an event we do not know but by the testimony other, it must meet two conditions simultaneously explained: knowledge and veracity.
But as in many cases, at most of the testimony, we have some data to guess on the probability of what we are told, is necessary to make them come in combination, to decide with less risk of error.
Usually, there are many things to attend to, in which teach more examples than the rules.
A general gives part of a brilliant victory just got, and the enemy, of course, was superior in strength, occupied a very advantageous position, but has been run in all directions, and only a hasty flight has escaped left to the winning number prisoners.
In part there is a clause that says: "Be positive that the square N can still held a few days.
So I have not thought it necessary to hasten the operations, mostly when the situation of the soldier, exhausted with hunger and fatigue, imperiously demanded some rest.
It remains inactive, and adds that he has asked for reinforcements; the brilliant victory will have been distinguished as a defeat. § IV.
A remark on the interest in cheating.
There are cases in which the narrator that seems interested in not telling the truth, it is unlikely you have done, because soon discovered the lie, without recourse to alleviate it, would become against him in a disgraceful manner.
Experience teaches us not to be trusted for certain military relations can not be contradicted later, clearly and with the presence of positive data, producing complete evidence.
The greatest strength of the enemy or under the order or the dispersion with that this or that part of his army retreated, the number of dead or wounded, I more or less favorable for some positions to address the situation of the combatants, more or less impassable roads, and other things along those lines, how can clarify the While the public?
Everyone referred to things his own way, according to their news, interests or desires; and they who know the truth are perhaps the first to darken the circulating most egregious untruths.
Those who come to get rid of the mess, and to see clearly in the business, or silent, or are challenged by many thousand to sustain the illusion who care, and falling on the spot cheaters never so shameful that do not allow any disguise.
But suppose that a general who is besieging a place, and can do nothing against it, is imprudent to send a pompous part of the government, announcing that he has taken by assault and are in possession of the remains of the garrison who have perished in the fray, at a few days will know the government knows the public will know the same military that the general lied in a manner so shocking, and ridicule and the shame that will befall you will impostor pay dearly for his glory for now.
So it is noteworthy that when most serious troubles it lies in a scandalous manner, with the aim of encouraging a few hours and lead to more time, rarely invents a part naming people, it appeals to the formulas "we know the positive, an eyewitness to refer just" and the like; offices are supposed to be printed later received, etc.
To leave it to lend credence to a relationship, not enough to object that the narrator is interested in not telling the truth, it is necessary to consider whether the circumstances of the lie is so unfortunate, that soon after its discovery there in their nakedness, without that fits the deceiver the excuse that he was mistaken or had been misinformed.
In these cases, however little is the category of person, low self-esteem that it can be assume, mostly when the matter goes public, it is prudent to give credit, if this can not be any damage.
It will be possible to leave deceived, but the probability is against and much higher level. § V.
Difficulties in reaching the truth, amid great distance of place or time.
If it is so difficult to find the truth, when the events are contemporary, and perform in our own country, what about what happens to long distance of place or time, or of the two?
For more heartbreaking it is, it must be confessed, who has observed how bulges, and exaggerated, and it decreases and becomes distorted, and upset top-down as well as we seeing with our eyes, by necessity has to feel very discouraged when you open a book history or travel, or to read newspapers, particularly foreigners.
Who lives at the same time and country of events has many ways to avoid error, or see things for himself, or he reads and hears very different relationships that can compare each other, and as is data on the backgrounds of people and things like is dealing with people of opposing interests and opinions, as follows closely the course of all events, it is not possible through hard work and discretion rinsing at some points the truth.
But what will be the unfortunate reader who lives in the distant past countries, and perhaps in the long distance of centuries, and has no other guide than the newspaper or work by chance in a reading room, or in a library, or to be acquired Recommended by seeing those written somewhere, or heard praise of those who boasted understand?
There are three channels through which we tend to acquire knowledge of what happens in times and distant places: newspapers, passenger relations, and stories.
Tell four words on each of them [8].
Some believe that with respect to the countries where it is in effect the freedom of the press, no is very difficult to find the truth, because having all sorts of interests and views any newspaper that serves as a body, each vanish the mistakes of others, Gushing matching the light of truth. "Among all know everything and say everything is no longer required be patient in reading, comparing care, tact and prudence in discerning judge. "So run few.
I think this is pure illusion, and the first thing is that neither seat over to the persons or things, the papers do not say all, nor much, nor even that who know the writers, even in the freest country. § II.
The newspapers say it all about people.
We are witnessing at every step that proponents of what is called a salience, the intemperate praise to praise, while his opponents he was given to the dictates hands full ignorant, stupid, inhuman, bloodthirsty, tigre, traitor, monster, and other niceties for this style.
The knowledge, talent, honesty, kindness, generosity and other qualities ascribed to the hero the writers of his devotion, are in fact somewhat faded with fulfillment of its enemies, but finally, what do you find a clean of this turmoil?
The result is groping, and be clarified or to suspend trial or to fall into gross errors.
The public career of the man in question is not always indicated by well-characterized events, and also what is in them good or bad, not always is it clear whether attributed to him or to his subordinates.
The funny thing is that sometimes such strife between the public opinion in certain circles, and maybe in the whole country, is fixed on the character, so that does not appear but lies by mutual agreement.
In fact, talking with men who are without news, maybe the same as they have declared war over raw, "what is talent, you will hear, nobody denies, knows a lot and has no bad intentions, but what would you have ?....
gotten in That, and oust need, I'm the first to respect as a private person, and hopefully we had listened to us, we would have done much, and would have played a role brilliant. "You see that one so honest, so intelligent, active and energetic, to say of certain newspapers, he and only he can remove the country from the brink?
Listen to those who know him closely, and perhaps his most ardent supporters. "That is an unhappy already know, but at last is the man we need, and someone we have to enforce.
He is accused of handling unclean, that who is ignorant?
in bank A has made such funds, and now is going to do the same in the bank B.
the history of this man?
as I'll tell V.
his life and miracles ... "And I relate his adventures, ups and low, and its evil or misery, or nonsense, and since then you suffer no illusions, and you judge forward with confidence and success.
These proportions do not usually enjoy them foreigners or nationals who satisfied with the reading of newspapers, and so believe that the comparison of those opposite views are clear about the truth, form the most wrong concepts men and things.
The fear of being denounced, of alienating some people, the respect due to privacy, decorum itself, and other similar reasons, often to prevent newspapers descending to certain details, and refer anécdoctas that portray the character alive who attack, it sometimes happens that the same exaggeration of the charges, intemperance of invective, and the cruelty of the satire, or do not do much damage with it could do with the simple and quiet exhibition of some particular facts.
The writers usually distinguish between the private man and public figure, ie very good in most cases, because otherwise the controversial journalistic luck and too bitter and broken, soon became a quagmire where it stirred intolerable filth, but this does not mean that the private life of a man not used very either to speculate on their behavior in public places.
Who in the regular treatment does not respect the property of others, would he proceed with purity when handling the finances of the nation?
The man in bad faith, no convictions of any kind, without religion, without morals, do you think to be consistent in the political principles appear to profess, and in his words and promises can rest assured the government that uses their services?
The Epicurean per system, which shamelessly insulting the people the public decorum, being a bad husband and bad father, do you think that renounce their profligacy when they see elevated to the judiciary, and of corruption and insolence have nothing to fear innocence and good fortune, nothing to hope for the insolence and injustice of the wicked?
And none of it say newspapers can say nothing but the writers are satisfied without any doubt. § III.
The newspapers say it all about things.
When writing in public there is always some formalities to be filled, and many considerations to keep, not a few say the opposite of what they think, and even more rigid in terms of accuracy are sometimes specified as not to say what I do not think, at least that much less than you think.
We should not forget these warnings, if want to know something more in politics than they walk through the world as many fake currency recognized, accepted each other without so intelligent mistake on its weight and fineness. [9] CHAPTER X.
Two very different relationships travel.
This time is not well adapted to observe, and if at times takes car to get rid of tiredness and to avoid loss, the worse for the notes of their portfolio: all paraded his eyes very quickly and in flashlight magic illusions pictures, collect very pleasant sensations, but not much news.
Next comes the visit of the main buildings, monuments and beauties beauties whose index is in the guide, and the capital or not be in the majors, or would it have gone many days in the said task.
The season is ahead, it should still visit other cities, go to the bathroom, attend this or that scene at a distant point, the traveler to take the baton and run to run elsewhere so just to practice there.
At Within months of his departure from the homeland, is now back, and ordered during the winter his notes, and spring is a growing sales volume on the trip.
Agriculture arts, commerce, science, politics, popular ideas, religion, customs, habits, character, everything has closely observed the lucky traveler, in his book is universal statistics the country; Creedle on his word and you can save you work out of your closet, but the most ignorant small and delicate details.
When to take the first rays of the sun, at the door of the car, disperta there, and yawning, and stretching will cast a glance over the country, which no longer resembles what it was last night, arranging her legs crossed and the gentleman opposite, perhaps the following will be locked conversation .-- V.
the country knows this? - A little .-- The people that his name? - If I remember correctly is N. - The main products of the country? - N .-- The industry? - N .-- Character? - Phlegmatic as postilion .-- Wealth? - as Jews.
Meanwhile the car comes to the inn, the responses are perhaps up without saying goodbye; and ignored reports of who they are, which include positive data from the notes the observer, who will joke to say that what has been seen.
But as these resources are not sufficient and would leave too incomplete description, collect carefully outlandish costumes, irregular buildings, grotesque dances that have offered to step, and HEOS here a picture of general practices that nothing will desired.
However, even there is another mine that will operate the passenger, and where perhaps will draw the main treasure.
In newspapers and on the guidelines, found in great numbers news which need to form their statistical data and pull away, ordering different, inserting something of what he has seen or heard or guessed, it will be a whole which will be circulated as a result of the research work of the traveler, and substance will no longer be for the most part, that stories of any and translations and newspaper plagiarism and works.
In order not to miss the severity with which the authors try to travel without so I propose to reduce the merit wherever he may be, suffice to recall the follies and absurdities have published some foreigners who have traveled in Spain.
What we have to happened may well happen to other peoples stand out well or badly, applauded with exaggeration, or unjustly criticized, according to the humor, ideas, and other qualities Thin the painter who was determined to take copies of originals that had not seen. § III.
Way of studying a country.
Reason and experience teach that concept to be fully a small region, and it can be described as it is, under the material and moral aspect, it is necessary to be familiar with the language, stay there long term, relationships abound, being in continuous treatment without tired of asking and observing.
I do not think there is another means of acquiring accurate news and be successful trial, the rest is beating in general, and error-filled head and inaccuracies
