which lies in the acorn is not the same as the corpulent oak which has challenged the momentum of hurricanes for a few centuries?
Asleep receive impressions similar to those which affect us awake: how do we make sure that the illusion is not life?
It is true that some, very rarely, disperta, we reminiscence that in the very act of sleep loomed the question of whether we dreamed, but they rarely frequency, and in general can be sure that the dream does not go along with this twilight of reflective reason, that warns us of our state, and the illusion that we suffer.
This is what we are going to examine.
All she can say against this law will be as specious as desired; but not more than an idle reverie: reverie that if the weakness of the understanding bastare to undo, it will be good to resist nature, until a new existence in another life has come to reveal what is in the depths of these mysteries, and how they link those links whose contact points can spot the reason, while nature experiences Grasp the irresistible that link at all stages of their existence. [25.] That feeling is something more than mere phenomena of our soul, which are effects of a cause other than ourselves, is shown by the comparison of them with each other; about the refer to an external object, and others do not: these two orders of phenomena present characters very different.
This is even more incomprehensible, as in the feelings that we consider simple phenomena, no immediate relation to any external object, we found no close dependence of one compared to others, and on the contrary we noticed a lot of disagreement.
Purely internal events, ie those we truly be for such, are very dependent on the will, with respect to its existence and also to their changes.
I play whenever I want in my imagination, a scene in which I represents the column of the Place Vendome in Paris, and make it disappear when I like.
The same thing happens to me all the other objects that I remember seeing: his presence in my interior depends on my will.
It is true that sometimes you would not want to represent objects, and hard to make them disappear, but so is that some efforts are sufficient to finally disappear.
Have we seen a person dying, and for a few days remains imprinted in our imagination with his face pale and South-East, his eyes bulging, convulsive hands, the contortions of his mouth, his painful death rattle interrupted by some plaintive woes, we are not masters of all of this we are not ungrateful repeatedly image, but it is certain that if we intend to distract a very complicated calculation, or solve a difficult problem, we will make the image disappear.
Whence we see even in exceptional cases, provided that we are in sound mind, always exercise our will a great influence on the phenomena purely internal.
Not so with those who are in immediate relationship with the outside, if I am in the presence the dying person can not but see and hear you: if those feelings are nothing more than a internal phenomenon, this phenomenon is of an order very different from the other: one is completely independent my will, the other not.
Purely internal phenomena are interlinked in a very different others: those relationships too much influence will, in others not.
Additionally, the first offered or by a simple act of will, or by themselves, alone, without any need for linkages with other than the preceding.
I write in Madrid and Suddenly it occurs to me the presence of the Thames, with its many sailing boats vapor.
For this I did not need to go through the series of phenomena that it represents me we call Spain and France.
The Thames I can not represent, after a thousand sensations unrelated to each other and with him, but if you have to produce in me the phenomenon that I call to see, then I will need to scroll to resign within me the whole series of phenomena involves a journey, and not as he wants, but really and truly experiencing all the pleasures and discomfort that accompany it: and forming a real desire to leave and go time to such time, failing to meet without the feeling that I call to see the diligence and with that other feeling I call to see a clerk in the office who does not want me back money, and no other feeling I call to see and touch my luggage, and all sensations resulting from such ungrateful neglect.
When this series of internal phenomena or common language, travel adventures, I love them represent only internally, so prepare to measure my taste: I stand, I'm more rapidly, a jump go through a hundred leagues, I move from one point to another without passing through the intermediate In short, I find none of the drawbacks that make me so heavy that we call reality.
I'm in a world where I control, I: and the car is ready, and the foreman on the job, and postilion in his, and flight and carried on the wind.
The beautiful landscapes, the ungrateful wastelands, huge forests, plains, which confines meets the sky, all paraded to my eyes with admirable speed, I get tired of going land, and without further ado I stand on the deck of a ship at sea, and I see the choppy waves, And I hear her roar, and which hit the side of the boat, and the pilot's voice that gives orders, see the machinations of the sailors, walk the cameras, talking to passengers, all without feeling bad odor, free from the anxieties of dizziness, or witness of others. [26.] Purely internal sensations, although they have some link with each other, mostly when coming from the outside, this link is not such that we can not be modified in myriad ways.
When we think of the obelisk in the Place de la Concorde, of course we have the fountains and statues and fountains, and the Tuileries Palace and the Temple of Madalena, and the Champs Elysees, and the Palace of the Chamber of Deputies, but it is in our hands change the scene, and no more than accidentally moved the obelisk in the middle of the Plaza de Oriente, and we are looking at what effect there, until satisfied with the operation we put again in his post or not think about him.
But if it comes to vision, or whether the external phenomenon, we will strive in vain to similar maneuvers: everything is in place, or at least so it seems, and feelings are chained together with links of iron.
The one coming after the other, and we is impossible to save the intermediate.
It also appears that the simple observation of what happens inside us, we witness the existence of two completely different orders of phenomena: the one, all, or nearly all, depends on our willingness, on the other nothing, in that, among other phenomena have certain relations, but highly variable and largely subject to our whim, in this, we dependent on each other, and will not occur under certain conditions.
No I can see if I open the windows to let in the light: the phenomenon of window and vision are necessarily linked.
But it is remarkable that they are not always: at night the open and I see; and need another auxiliary phenomenon is artificial light, and I want more I can not alter the law of dependence. [27.] What does all this?
indicates that phenomena beyond our control and subject in its existence and its laws to accidents that we can not alter, are effects of beings other than ourselves.
There are ourselves, because we exist often without them are not caused by our will, as they arise without the assistance it, and sometimes against it, not effect each other in the purely internal because very often happens that, having followed a thousand times one event to another, suddenly stops there for over second you play the first.
This leads me to test a hypothesis which is confirmed more and more established doctrine.
A ideal scenario. [28.] If the system of the idealists has to survive, we must assume that the link and dependence of the phenomena that we refer to external objects, only exists in within us, and we attribute causality to external objects, only belongs to our own actions.
Pulling a cord that is in the office, long years ago rings a bell, or in idealistic language, the internal phenomenon consists of sensations that you enter what we call cord and pull it produces or brings with it other than sound surnamed the bell.
By the habit, or a hidden law either, there the relationship of two never interrupted succession phenomena which cause us the illusion, why move to the real order that is purely fantastic.
This is the least irrational explanation may dip, but with few observations can be made to feel all the futility of such a response.
