Lemaire repeated endlessly and a distracted manner: - En garde vivement - Contre of Ripostez .-- quarte ...
Can not play with him.
I would not take advantage on my opponent.
This, at night, had a frightful nightmare.
A Sarrió only returned the other half.
Dona Paula, who slept beside her, so terrified, which was necessary to go to antispasmodic.
Belinchón, with the heroic strength of the temperaments, said nothing to her consort.
What he did was take a drink of antispasmodic.
Next day he went by car to Lancia, accompanied by Peña, Sinforoso, Don Rufo and two swords of fire.
On leaving the town on the road, over a hundred people got fired.
Given this demonstration of affection, Don Rosendo felt touched. - Good luck - Put you telegram, huh? - Do not say that Sarrió Lancia is below.
Don Rosendo was shaking with emotion the hands of his supporters.
All were being offered to accompany him, and he promised revenge for the case of perishing in the struggle.
At last they came to the fifth designated, and were seen with the enemy.
Witnesses talked, measured swords, and put in the hands of the contestants.
The appearance of these had the right color to such formalities, that is, a green bottle, which took intervals orange overtones.
Once on duty, and given voice to attack, were both beginning to be tempted sabers methodically first on one side after another, with a mournful sound that put terror.
After all, Villar rushed to lift the head to hurt his opponent ...
Rosendo gave so prodigious leap backwards, as witnesses looked at each other with wonder.
Villar, also stunned, waited to come near his opponent again.
Returned to the gloomy tic tac.
Don Rosendo, after another moment, he raised his sword ...
Villar, instantly took another truly supernatural leap that far surpassed the first.
They believed that leaving the fifth.
Witnesses watched with even greater astonishment.
The fight lasted, in this way, more than half an hour.
In it, Don Rosendo cried once: - Stop! - What? - Asked witnesses approaching. - That seems to me that the sword of the Lord has lost the tip.
Saber was recognized Villar, and saw that it was not true.
This trait of chivalry more typical of the Middle Ages to our times, rose to Don Rosendo, the public perception when it became known, at the height of the legendary heroes, Roland, Bayardo and Bernardo del Carpio.
The fighting ended when the saber Villar, without any intention, ran into the front Belinchón.
Don Rufo placed a large piece of taffeta English on the wound.
The wounded man shook hands nobly its opposite.
Sent a telegram to Lancia, so they put a Sarrió.
Lunched all happily together, and during lunch, champions contacted major expansion the blows that were intended, and that lack of opportunity had not been executed. - Man, if you get no break on time, delivery will head in two.
Feint of a two in the face, thrust to the chest and slash at his head - said Don Rosendo, swallowing a superb piece of hake. - Well, you would not have been better if I make a combination which had meditated - answers Villar .-- Amago pin belt!
You answered my arm pin!
I make a two pin face!
fit it into the cabin, making the glass powder.
Then he gave running.
You go to them with which it can withstand.
This insight was innate in him.
Which is one more argument for those who believe in the preexistence the human being.
In many parts.
And the case is not was he alone who did.
The worshipers of Terpsichore, while habanera dance languid, they were distracted by reading a portion of invaluable tips are intended to demonstrate that virtue and work are the true treasures child: The child study will receive the reward of his application
