Well be careful to believe nonsense.
If you do not throw the anchors we had washed up waist. - Nothing else? - Does it seem to you soon get into dirty water? - Man, it was not like dish, but to see you so agitated and angry, all believed a danger of death, eh, ladies?
The ladies fell apart in exclamations, some crying, others laughing.
Care was lavished two who had fainted, cooling water temples and making sucking bottle sales of the Countess of Cotorraso.
The others were calming welcoming with joy to have escaped that awful danger, as no resigned to not having happened.
All proposed move to her friends in Madrid with the story this horrible adventure.
Creíanse and heroines of a novel by Jules Verne.
The spectacle offered to his sight when they had eyes to behold it was great and fantastic.
Huge vaulted galleries crossing in all directions and illuminated only by the pale light of some lamps hung from long distances.
And for those galleries flowing with incessant bustle a crowd of workers, whose gigantic silhouettes yonder trembled in the flickering and dim light prevailed.
Their cries could be heard the creaking of the United trucks: they seemed seized with a vertigo, as if they had to conduct its mysterious in very short term.
The walls of some galleries, lined with crystals of mercury, in many points presented native, which shone like silver.
Escuchábanse behind those walls thump, rhythmic.
For certain openings that stretch at intervals were walking a few steps in the darkness, could be seen at the end of a cave lit where four or six men disheveled and pale with holes pierced the mineral.
A little that should rest, watched in its members the tremor characteristic of mercury.
A home was believed himself transported to the gnomes, the center of his profound works and mysterious.
The man chewed the land with endless effort as a mole, filling holes.
Without the help of cat, the gods got rid mouse perfectly human.
Madariaga Lola gave a piercing scream that made her turn her head at all.
A trickle of water falling from the ceiling had been introduced by the neck.
At bottom, all experienced a vague fear, some anxiety trying to hide.
The cage area brought a lot of other people.
The third time was almost empty.
The rest of the party had opted to stay on the ninth floor: work of the miners were not interested.
Those who had declined to live there too felt desires to be in more comfortable surroundings.
Asked each time if that director I was sure, if there were no cases of subsidence. - Oh, no! - Said the director smiling -.
The mine collapses are private.
This belonged to the state, and everything is done in great security. - In some mines where I've been - said an engineer - had to get a gang behind of the miners to dig. - What horror - a voice cried all the ladies.
Acomodáronse finally back in the cage, and climbed to the ninth floor.
He had taken in the wider gallery a piece, it had closed, Tiller and then carpeting.
So that the room seemed a palace.
The roof and walls were covered with waterproof cloth, decorated with trophies mining.
Stood a splendid table in the middle of it for fifty or more covered.
Was profusely illuminated by large chandeliers with hundreds of candles.
Had been lavished, in short, all the refinements of luxury and elegance in that room.
So that once inside it was hard to represent that he was at the bottom of a mine three hundred meters from the surface.
The guests sat in the middle of a scuffle between pleasant and distressing that revealed in their smiling faces and pale at a time.
The servants, properly dressed, occupied their jobs as if they were in the palace of Requena.
At the start of the first service plate, the orchestra, which was hidden in one of the adjoining galleries, began playing a beautiful vals, whose sounds, muffled by distance, came sweet and encouraging.
The ladies, with trembling hands, bright eyes, whispering to each moment - "What is original this! ...
I'm so glad you came! ...
It's been a wonderful whim that of Clementina. " And all tried to find a balance of mind chatting about indifferent things.
The idea of ??having so much land over weighed on his mind and disturbed.
Among these, which less thought of his body position was undoubtedly Raymond, completely absorbed in morally occupied.
Clementina, in spite of his love and his promises, he kept flirting with Escosura.
They sat in two chairs side by side, in front of the seat he occupied.
One appeared chatting animatedly, laughing all the time: one appeared he surrendered, obsequious, lavishing thousand gallant attentions, pleased her, smiling, accepting with gratitude your kindness.
Another who also cared little or a lot with the location was Ramon, although by contrast mode.
Esperanza was with him lovable, perhaps because he believed in it better keep your promise no Pepe Castro.
The councilman, drunk, delirious with joy, it did not depart one iota more than what decency requires.
Pio, happy, successful, directed from time to time in the competition vague looks of pity and condescension.
And when their eyes met the face rentist of Calderon visibly softened and had difficulty work and not call Dad.
As the lunch progressed, the land was less about them.
Everyone forgot mine, believing, like other Sometimes, in a high aristocratic.
Rafael Alcantara Peñalver Inebriate amused.
Encouraged by the laughter of his companions, who watched him, did her best to make fun of philosopher tuteándole aloud, winking at his friends every time you uttered a wisecrack, abuse, in short, grossly benign character and innocence of the famous thinker.
Was responsible to avenge all those famous ring of pipes, high skills intellectuals recognized in all of Spain Peñalver.
Upon arrival, he arose to provide Escosura desserts.
In this respect him more than the wild for his size, because of their fiery and especially for their money.
Campanula powerful voice and did the eulogy of the Duke, whom he called "financial genius" a few times.
He spoke of labor, capital, production, going at once policy, which was his forte.
Escosura lived not long ago rather than politics.
From the bottom of that terrible dart underground passage led from Council President of ministers who had not given a portfolio in the last crisis.
Salabert replied with words thanking slurred, leaning on the floor.
To get to the position held had no other merit than work and honesty. (Murmurs of approval.) Nation, the sovereign, he was ennobled ennoble a child's work.
Struggling full against countless obstacles life had brought together a handful of gold.
This gold served now to feed a few thousand workers.
It was his greatest satisfaction. (Applause.) It gave by the beautiful ladies who had come with such bravery until that hole, leaving he scent of love and joy that will never be erased from the hearts of miners.
At that instant, uncorked a few bottles of champagne, were heard in the mine some pale thunderous explosions that made the guests. - Do not be scared - said the director -.
It's time to give them.
The noise of each, a hundredfold by the thousand echoes and resonances that the galleries produced, could not fail to infuse a spark of to fear in the hearts of the bravest.
The table shook and glass dishes and the clatter acute sang spiders.
In that time rose from his chair, the doctor of mine, and after walking his black eyes aggressive guests, raised a glass and said: - The Duke of Requena egregious just told us, with modesty does him credit, that the secret of his fortune was simply at work and honesty.
This force is distributed unevenly among the agencies.
A few have been played a major part, others less.
And in this relentless battle to maintain against each other perish the weakest saved the fittest and strongest.
Thanks to this force of nature has endowed him, was able to subdue and exploit the particular efforts of thousands of men unconsciously serve their plans.
In fact, his face pale and thin doctor, her black hair and stirred, and all in his eyes, but wished to appear innocent, they were filled with irony, had something of Mephistopheles. - At all times, has existed in one form or another slavery.
There have been men for to live in the refinement of spiritual joys, in the cultivation of the arts, luxury and elegance in the pleasures provided by trade between intelligent, educated people, and other men dedicated to providing the means to live in such So with a rough and painful work.
Those working at the bottom of this mine and absorb the poison that kills them, if they are not slaves by the law are from hunger.
It is a law of nature, and therefore holy and respectable, that for each enjoy others suffering ....
You, beautiful ladies, you are the heirs of those illustrious Roman ladies who sent their slaves to the mines start vermilion to beautify your face, and those other Arabs who did bring to decorate their minarets in the palaces of Cordoba and Seville.
For you I offer, therefore, seized the soul with admiration and respect, as representatives on earth of what is in it more sublime, love, beauty, joy.
Some of the more astute murmured.
Grew the hostility against the young doctor was.
The ladies looked at him more favorably.
We were very original.
Anyway, the toast was some painful impression did not fade Fuentes but let the stream of funny paradoxes. - Ladies, I do not toast - which was told about - because I am no orator.
Hopefully soon is this an honorable distinction in Spain, which will soon be said with respect to passing a guy down the street: "That is not he", as he says: "That does not have the large cross Isabel la Católica ...." The ladies laughed and celebrated the jokes.
But deep down, whether by the medical discourse or because the mine returned to inspire fear, he felt a vague discomfort.
All eyes sparkled with joy when it was announced that the cage ahead.
The last argument amounting shortly after beginning the ascent a distant song which was quickly approaching, it sounded very close to them as if singing to her and walked away quickly also lost beyond in the background without anyone had seen.
It was a fantastic effect.
What they heard was an Andalusian beach whose lyrics read: Upstream upstream never water rise; in the world, downstream, everything goes downstream.
An engineer said casually: - A crew of miners going down into the cage that serves as a counterweight to it. - You see, countess - Salabert said triumphantly addressing the Countess of Cebal -.
The countess paused a moment and said after smiling sadly - The song is not very happy, Duke.
At the bottom, said with scornful tone Escosura the director of mines: - Do you know that this young doctor has been very unwise to cast their materialistic ideas? - Materialistic not know if it is.
Which boasts of being, and so I love the workers, is socialist. - Worse than worse! - The truth is - Peñalver said with a sigh - that the bottom of a mine is always out so socialist.
At nine o'clock at night, after eating at Villalegre, left the special train which was lead to Madrid.
All became very excited about the trip.
Expected to ecstasy friends with the story of underground banquet.
The only one who suffered from them was Raymond.
The alternatives of joy and pain that made him pass Clementina flirting with him had broken my heart.
Lately, seeing him so sad, so tired, had taken pity on the beautiful, we had sit beside him in the car, and without scandal of the competition (because they were cured of ghosts) had talked almost all night with him and finally had to sleep with her head on his shoulder.
Although the train dragged a sleeping-car, few had made use of it.
Most preferred stay in the halls chatting.
Only at dawn, the dream of performing at all and was transposed stayed in his seat whimsical postures, some of them little aesthetic.
Ramon Maldonado was at the height of his fame and fortune.
We found off, so to speak, of the land, not only because of the natural elevation of his soul, but for the pleasure of triumph.
Forever free the bondage of pain, like the immortals, enjoyed calm, majestic, its apotheosis.
Then, Ramon, the god was increasingly separating more than men.
XIV # A to be. # Some weeks later, Ms Carmen disease is extremely aggravated
