Only God and he knows it.
See what interest do you have in it. - No one, in my belief, that of preventing the commission of a real shame for a person that touches us as closely as is our son. - What shame?
You use some bad words ... - Time was that Leonardo is chasing a black girl ... - And how do you know? - I know for the same reason that you ignore. - Nothing I say that.
What does not seem natural to you, old and ugly, you're so aware of the Boy womanly pursuits.
But I think the work toilet you take ...
I will always believe that, for women, Leonardite next to you is sucking child. - Let us recriminations, Rosa, and let's get to what touches us more closely, as parents of the boy ...
The thing is very serious, serious ...
Tantamount to discredit the child from her father, always willing to look their faults by the black side.
Leonardo asks you money and lend it, because you can not tell no, and because I figure that if you deny it dies of grief ...
Of course, clearly, to carry it dear.
No great insight is needed ...
It seems to me, watching the race said that the wife remained silent and shook in bed, seems to me that this was the best and least risky game that could have been chosen to save the boy and the girl from the precipice of ruin ... - Yes, said Dona Rosa, do you figure that because you've got the girl in the Pickups, and everything was arranged and completed?
The child has taken the thing to heart.
Love is blind. - Who!
What he feels that boy's blood boil, fever, headaches.
It has nothing to do with this heart.
Do not worry. - You will, eh?
But the child is not eating, not sleeping, suffering, suffering, sorrow, crying.
Yeah, like you do not see, not hear, not what understand, speak as you speak. - Put your thing on your part.
It would still be able to trumpet the very early by his father as arming with slaughter on this island the chaos of the mainland.
Work the very lazy and have no time or opportunity to complain about the best of governments.
I I would stick from ear to ear as the mules ... - No more nonsense and insults, Rosa stopped him bothered.
Strips of the Creoles as if my children and I were in your land.
You hate to Havana, why does it hurt to get paid in the same currency?
Deprive him of all tastes and pleasures ...
I do not know how not despair.
There he will do everything in their power to get the girl Closure ... - Like you do not give money, "said Don Candido start, slush, I doubt that get away with the attempt.
Do not give money, do not give it at random.
But as your baby choking is a gift, let's one of sufficient quality to fill with pride and makes you ashamed of the abyss of degradation to which proposed decrease. - What is the gift of hope holding the miracle ...? - The house of Soler Abreu is removed in raffle sales.
Get him, Leonardo alhajémosla when he marries Elizabeth.
They sell for 60,000 dollars. - Almost the value of a mill. - The house is worth that money.
There was a real revolution Cecilia entry at the home of the Collected.
His youth, their beauty, their cries, their tears, the very motives of his prison spells assumptions used to seduce a young white millionaire family from Havana, all attended to inspire curiosity, sympathy or admiration for women of various colors and conditions fulfilling terms longer or shorter sentence.
For they were vulgar, and off to be at its heart the sense of dignity staff, they were impossible to avoid the influence of circumstances whose magic exercise their empire in this sublunary world while reflecting the sunlight.
Apparently, little could Cecilia earn him their sympathy and outbursts of admiration for all that were strong enough around him to create that atmosphere of respect and consideration that contributed relief from their sentences while in the collection and which after the doors opened.
The keeper of the sheep was a bachelor derailed green, a sort of puppet with whom years or penances had tamed human passions.
To this date, only had entered the establishment in charge of women of low extraction, old, ugly and worn by the vices.
Under conditions very different Cecilia came to increase their numbers.
Perhaps he had sinned but certainly not by vice or evil inclination.
That paid their few years, decent and modest demeanor, his appearance and pearl diverting their smooth cheeks.
The pain, the shame of being locked up and confused between some women knowingly of misconduct, was undoubtedly what made her burst into tears and complaining.
Many and those matters of genuine despite inconsistent with the crime.
So reasoned the keeper of the House of collections, and without hesitation declared the champion and Cecilia's friend.
His pleasure was to go after hours to the window of the room that had assigned to surprise her, in secret, in his demonstrations of feeling, falling more and ignite it in anger against their persecutors.
Sometimes the chair was in the head and arms resting on the table, while leaving the tuft of his hair abounds Loose care to cover those parts of his back which he was quite a veto of looks loose secular dress.
In all these cases was withdrawn to their goal keeper made a basilisk.
In one of those moments of anger philanthropic rained appeared as Maria de Regla pretending to sell seasonal fruits and preserves, as business was concerned then.
The man did not want to buy or get caught in a conversation that could distract him from his bittersweet thoughts.
But this did not abandoned its goal of selling.
Said to the sweet tone I used: - Does it hurt the Lord's head or teeth? (No treatment gave their mercy). - Nothing hurts me, "he growled. - I'm glad, because those are the pangs of pain.
Mr See if they want collected fresh fruit or syrup. - We are not for fruit or candy now.
There is also no money at home. - I trust. - Go with God and leave me alone. - Other times bought me sweets and fruits here. - Not in my time.
The regulation prohibits any goings on the net. - As I have said that the man was as good as the bread with the poor collected. - You have been deceived.
I'm bad, very bad. - The Lord is not bad.
Do not want to gab. - Okay.
The charge, charge.
I'll go, but before he did not have the goodness to hear the message just give me a gentleman to the Lord? - What message?
Jailer I'm not, I am a mere custodian of collections, by delegation the illustrious Bishop Espada y Landa. - Forgive me sir.
Yes what? - Well, I tell the gentleman was very interested in this girl. - What I care about your interest?
Wants Mr give the child on their side these oranges (choose six from the most beautiful of the board), and tell him he is putting much effort and money spent to remove as soon as this prison. - Man!, Said the policeman hesitated, I have not ever done the role of run-see-and tell. - Come, sir, that you will not regret.
She is very cute, cry, and I'm not stick.
Should remember me. - No, indeed. - Well, I gave suck to their mercy, first in the Real Casa Cuna, and then for about a year, staying with the grandmother of his mercy, when she lived in the alley in San Juan of God
