I'm not one to leave the danger: on the contrary, we seek from 21, and I find the occasion of my presence in the squad is helpful.
Do not you think you did well in coming? - As is clear: what does that question not like - I said trying to calm his agitation, which was so great that he could see the inconvenience of talking to a miserable question page so serious. - I see you're a reasonable person - said to feel comforted with my approval -; I see that you look high and patriotic ...
But Paca does not see things rather than the side of selfishness, and as is a genius so rare, and as he has made up his mind that brackets and the guns are useless, I can not understand ...
I know will be furious when he returns, then ...
as we did not win, he will say this and that ...
me again crazy ...
Is not it true that I should not make case? - I think - I said -.
Your Honor has done well to come: it proves that he is a brave sailor. - Then go to these reasons Paca, and see what you answered - said he increasingly agitated -.
In short, tell him I am well and healthy, and that my presence here has been very necessary.
The truth is that in the rescue of Santa Ana have taken a great part.
You can still do something more, it can still be that if the wind is favorable to us, we rescued a couple of ships tomorrow ...
With that farewell, Gabrielillo.
Be careful what you say to Paca. - No, I will not forget.
Already know that if not for your honor not dam the Santa Ana, and also know I might perhaps bring us Cádiz two dozen ships. - Two dozen, no, man - he said -, that's plenty.
Two ships, or maybe three.
Anyway, I think I've done well to come to the square.
She will be furious and I go crazy when return, but ...
Was praying, and moved the beads with great dissimulation, because I did not see it engaged in such pious exercise.
I I assumed by his last words my master had lost the brain, and saw him praying I took up the weakness of his spirit, which had been in vain efforts to overcome the old tired and unable to sustain the fight, went to God for mercy.
Dona Francisca was right.
My love, for many years, serving more than to pray.
Rafael and Martial, as the other officers wounded, were lowered into the arms of one of the boats, with hard work, by strong ratings.
The very strong waves hindered the operation, but he finally did, and the two vessels went to Ray.
The voyage of a vessel to another was terrible, but in the end, although there moments when it seemed to me that the boat was going to disappear forever, we the side of Ray, and with great difficulty climbed the ladder. -XV- "We left Guatemala to enter Guatepeor - Marcial said that they put on Cover -.
We'll see to see. - What do you say, Marcial, who did not get there - I asked with great eagerness. - You, Mr.
Gabrielito, does not understand this. - Is that when my lord D.
Alonso and Santa Ana officials believe the Lightning enter tonight, there is bound to come.
They say it, it will be well known. - And you know, sardiniya, those stern masters of lamps (wrong) more easily we seafarers waist.
If not, here is the head of the entire squad, Mr.
Horn, load the devil with him.
Horn would have done what I said had lost the battle? - And you think you will not get to Cadiz? - I say that this ship is heavier than the same lead, and also treacherous.
But despite this and his advanced age, bordering on the fifty-six years as was in good condition, did not seem to run any danger, because if the storm was becoming more, also the port was near.
Anyway, was it not logical to assume greater risk was in Santa Ana, treeless, rudderless, and forced to march in the wake of a frigate?
Marcial was placed in the cockpit, and Malespina in the chamber.
When we left there with other officers wounded, I heard a voice I recognized, but the point I could not realize of the person to whom it belonged.
I approached the group where this talk came rumbling, dominating the other voices, and was startled, while recognizing D.
José María Malespina in person.
I ran to him to say he was his son, and the good father of lies suspended I was telling to go next to the wounded boy.
Great was his joy to meet alive, he had left Cadiz because devouring impatience and wanted to know his whereabouts at all costs. "What you have is nothing - said hugging her son -: a simple scratch.
I said, gentlemen, did not want to ignore me when I spoke of the reforms of the artillery, and here are the results.
Well well: as I knew and I knew that I had come in with a few withdrawal Gravina ships, went to see if among them was the San Juan, where were you, but I was told there was been captured.
I can not paint to you my anxiety: I had no doubt about your death, I learned mostly from the large number of casualties that occurred on your ship.
But I am a man I carry things to the end, and knowing that it had arranged the departure of some vessels in order to collect dismantled and rescue the prisoners, I decided to leave soon doubt, embarking on one of them.
I stated my intention to Solano, and then Major General of the squadron, my old friend Seaton, and do not let me come without scruple.
Aboard Lightning where I embarked this morning, I asked for you, for the San Juan, but I said nothing comforting, but on the contrary, that Churruca had died, and his ship after fight with glory had fallen into the hands of the enemy.
By their laughter and whispering understood that throughout the day had fun with the lies of that good man, who does not bridle his tongue fickle, even in the most critical and painful circumstances.
The surgeon stated that it was let stand to hurt, and no conversation held in his presence some, especially if it related to past disasters.
Jose Maria, who just heard, said that, on the contrary, it was appropriate to revive the spirit of the patient with the conversation. "In the war of Roussillon, the seriously wounded (and I was several times) we sent to soldiers to dance and touched the guitar in the infirmary, and I am sure that this treatment soon cured us all of the pads and kits. - For in the wars of the French Republic - said an official who wanted to confuse Andalusian D.
They never, as there all was remarkable, and I can vouch for that, that I witnessed from the Introit to the Mass est Ite.
A war that I owe my knowledge of the artillery, have you not heard about me?
I'm sure you know me by name.
Well, you know I have here in head a great project, and such that if one day become reality, they will not disasters like this occur 21.
Yes, gentlemen - she added, looking earnestly and sufficiency after three or four officers who heard him -: we need to do something for the motherland is urgent to invent Somewhat surprisingly, that in no time we return all the lost and to ensure our marine the victory for ever and ever Amen. - So, Mr.
José María - said an officer -; you tell us what your invention .-- For I am concerned now as to build cannons 300. - Man, to 300! - Shouted the officers to fuss with laughter and derision -.
Higher we have on board are 36. - These are toys for kids.
Just imagine the havoc that would make these pieces of 300 shooting on the enemy's fleet - said Malespina -.
But what the hell is this? - Added holding Non-roll on the floor, as the swaying of the Ray were such that he could hardly take a right. - The storm rages and I think tonight we at Cadiz, "said a retired officer.
Were only two, and the liar continued his rant in these terms: "The first thing to do was build boats from 95 to 100 yards long. - Snails!
You know tacked you wrong, and that all operations were done on it very hard. - I see you are scared by little, little gentleman - continued Malespina -.
If you know that I have here an idea ...
José María gave such a jolt that was on all fours.
So he went another officer, and was only one, which had to continue holding the conversation. "What swings! - Continued the old -.
It seems as if we're going to crash into the coast ...
Well, as I said, I would move that great mass of my invention by means of ...
The officer did not want to hear more, and although I had put into the vessel nor was service, be those listed, was to help their peers rather busy with the growing storm.
Malespina was left alone with me, and then thought I would not judge me quiet person order to sustain the conversation.
But my misfortune would have wanted him more than me what I was worth, and started me on the following terms: "Do you misunderstand what I mean?
then. - Yes, sir, I fully understand - I replied to see if it was silent, as neither had mood hear, nor the violent balances of the ship, announcing a great danger, possessed the spirit to speak about the enlargement of the marina. - I see you know me and takes care of my inventions - he continued -.
The observation of you, gentleman, is atinadísima, and try to understand and appreciate the great inventions.
To avoid the effect of enemy artillery, I forraría my boat with thick steel plates, that is, you put a shell, such as those used by past warriors.
By this means, it could attack without the enemy projectiles do in their more side effects than would a barrage of pellets of bread, thrown by hand a child.
It's a wonderful idea that I've had.
Jose Maria was as bewildered with this, and was puzzled for a moment, without know what to say, but his inexhaustible vein soon suggest new ideas, and answered bad mood: "Who has told you, daring lad, I would be able to divulge my secret?
The ships would be manufactured with the utmost secrecy and without saying Palotada anyone.
Suppose going on a new war.
I did not remember most formidable vessel of imagination, until thirty years later I learned the application of steam navigation, and even more, when after half a century saw our glorious frigate Numancia the finished performance of projects quirky Trafalgar liar.
Half a century later I remembered D.
José María Malespina, and said: "It seems incredible that the vagaries designed by a madman or a liar become wonderful realities in the course of time. " Since I noticed this coincidence, not condemn absolutely no utopia, and all liars I think men of genius.
I left D.
José María to see what was happening, and as I set foot outside the chamber, I learned of the compromised position he was in the Lightning.
The storm, not only prevented entry into Cadiz, but he was moved to the coast, where encallaría insurance crashing against the rocks.
However bad luck out of Santa Ana, who had abandoned could not be worse than ours.
I eagerly watched the faces of officers and men, to see if there was any hope to indicate, but, to my misfortune, I saw signs in all of great discouragement
