Gave him a lot in a tone that was cold.
The two friends, after a few minutes, he understood perfectly.
Pepa, always affecting ease, flattered in every way possible to her friend, as beautiful, as rich and elegant.
Clementina was left flatter, breathed with delight that whiff of incense.
Instead promised to lose a penny of their capital Pepa.
They descended the stairs caught by the waist, chattering like magpies.
Arriving at the door the room, before releasing it gave a tight and loving kiss.
Neither thought that what had linked arms were not his own but those of a corpse, the corpse a holy and generous lady.
VIII # Dinner Fornos. # Leaving the hotel de Osorio, Pepe and Ramon Castro got into the waiting sedan the first and moved to Fornos.
I had trouble getting rid of Cobo Ramirez, I smelt some dinner and wanted to be in the game.
Ramón Castro gave a nudge to express I would not be happy in it.
This, whom no board of shameless character firstborn of House-Ramirez did his best to get rid of deception.
The terror of husbands was in a foul mood.
The real or feigned indifference Clementina had shown him all night gnawing the heart.
Prudentísimos had always been in society, especially in husband's house, but never lacked time, until then, the lady with an intense look, with some palabrilla fleeting, to express his love.
And it rained wet, because several days ago and found that the detached, distracted, stinging was alive.
Castro was not in love with the wife of Osorio.
He was incapable of love.
But he had a special idea of ??their skills conqueror and, therefore, a love own exaggerated.
Furthermore, we know that Clementina was for him, not only love the turtle, but the raven who brought him support in his beak.
Wrapped in fur coat and sprawled in the corner of the car, not opened his mouth the whole way.
The cold night and clear, a night of Madrid, in which the environment produces tickle the eyes and nose.
Ramon, also given to his melancholy, with her handkerchief wiped the window glass to immerse the eye in the empty streets and the sky filled with stars.
When they arrived they saw the car Fornos of Amparo, waiting. - We arrived a little late.
We will tear your eyes that aunt - said Castro rushing to enter.
A waiter told them upstairs in the cabinet on the left, I waited three women and two gentlemen.
Before he gave up the arrangements for the dinner he had ordered.
In the cabinet, scattered chairs, were Rafael Alcantara, Manolito Dávalos, the Nati the Relief and Amparo, who went and were greeted with whistles.
All five came from the Real: made it about half an hour waiting. - That little shame you, son! - Amparo said with a frown beautiful -.
Y fewer still take seriously your treats. - Girl, I figured I'd come out later than Real. - That!
Say you were at home at my stepdaughter, and then you have some excuse.
Spite, incubated overnight, breaking the shell strongly now. - Olé my child!
Clementina will have a more submissive puppy wool.
If he wants, makes her lick the soles of your feet. - Yes, the same as you his dad! - Castro responded angrily - You, apparently, you have come to appear that I am an infantry cadet?
Then you'll see what I care for that Mrs. .... - Really? - Asked Alcantara. - Really, I'm bored now.
Leon, as I and everyone else, we would like that we sit down to dinner we were good friends.
All laid hands on her and admired. - How will the woman's body!
And one after another placing the palm on the back of that beautiful animal that indeed, almost burned. - Now you will see how I compose with anchovies - said sitting -.
Because I guess you've remembered me - he said looking up at Pepe Castro.
This gave a nod and gently pushed Manolito Dávalos to sit at beside his former mistress.
It was curious to see the strange confusion that gripped the Marquis touched when he got near the Amparo.
This woman was fascinated in such a way that showed confusing flushed, not knowing what to say or do.
Colleagues, who knew, surreptitiously mirábanle and sending smiles and winks at the young, which adopted a continent protective, maternal, with him.
He laughed like the rest of this strange and furious passion, but deep felt flattered by it.
Rafael Alcantara, who had pinched all the dishes of appetizers, and cried again - Gentlemen, please come by God that dinner, because I'll catch a surfeit of olives.
Acomodáronse all at last.
Amparo spurned the consommé; but when they brought some steaks Macédoine boeuf was filled so that the plate friends began to laugh and be elbow. - Ah! "You think I'm a girl singing consumptive of La Stella confident? ...
Rafael took the conversation to the Duke of Requena, Amparo but cut the jokes. - Come on, let him alone.
As payment, the poor have fun as you can.
Although everyone knew he had enslaved the multimillionaire, did not like being laughed at at their expense.
Rafael had terrible details, disgusting.
Women savaged her revenge on her beauty, elegance and pride.
Castro, instead of coming to the defense, contented himself with quietly smile and say with negligence: - Do not know what you say!
That smile, that superior tone and dismissive, no doubt wanted to mean it was ridiculous talk about the internals of Clementine in his presence.
They stood on the tablecloth honor of another portion of ladies and gentlemen.
Between glass and glass of Burgundy, between bite and taste of salmon with mayonnaise were all perfectly arranged.
Manolito no plywood in conversation.
Feel happy with Amparo suit rubbing against your legs, throwing occasionally looks intense passionate desire, come to serve with application coward slave, was pressed at times over the odds against his idol, seized with rage passion.
When this happened, the idol had been placed under the table and cruel heels pinches him again right.
Beyond this was friendly with him, treated him as a child, gave him the plate snacks she ate and I was holding his beard pampering with the fingertips.
But the poor, before finishing dinner, found himself overcome by a fit of coughing, he turned red, I wanted to take, with great efforts of his body, something that had not out.
That something was nothing less than a string of railway rails to the mad Marquis he felt like he had inside the body.
Others, who knew of this hallucination, smiling with an expression of pity and derision.
Rafael Alcantara said cynically: - Dale, dale, which is lizard!
Manolo poor turned to him, sweaty, power, and said with an accent of reproach: - If you'll feel like me, do not laugh, Rafael. - You're right, you're right! - Amparo exclaimed indignantly - .Vaya a joke, make fun of sick friend.
To compensate for that offense helped him sit on a couch, he wiped sweat his handkerchief and gave him a few kisses.
Then he came to sit down again and continued eating it he put forward.
Was one of the plebeian tastes remained.
Many swallowed, which excited the admiration and laughter diners.
Amparo soaked with snacks so many formidable sip of burgundy, always leaving the glass shaking.
He ate and drank as a laborer in wedding day, and flaunted it.
Ramon was not ready to experience the joys of animal nutrition.
Said I had taken home Osorio chocolate, but it was not true.
What had taken was poison gifts to his friend, Count de Agreda, a tribute by over an hour to Hope. - Hey, ugly, why do not you eat? - Amparo said, suddenly turning towards him -.
Maldonado, who was surly and with it from the phrase of the evening, was put on.
Barely contained in a hoarse voice said: - I warn you seriously is that you not return to take care of me in front of that girl ....
Amparo stared at him defiantly. - Why, rich mine? - Because women like you can not talk about certain things without desecrate - said shaking Councilman cholera. - Ja, ja!
Open balconies, kids, because this guy is hot - he said with sarcastic laugh; and infuriating all at once: - Look, kid, do not give me fibs!
You are a mamarrachillo and she a sack of pus.
The noble face of Ramon broke down on hearing these heavy words.
His whole body trembled with rage.
Castro was on the other side of the Nati.
Without knowing why, because he had never been sympathetic, gave him all night and woo serve quietly.
When you put a little cheerful, Alcantara told was on the other side: - With your permission, Rafael, I'll give a kiss Nati.
And they gave without waiting for an answer.
Rafael did not damn the case.
Shortly after he returned to say: - Do you allow, Rafael?
fit him another kiss.
The little joke seemed so well that not five minutes passed without the repetition.
Nati found it delicious, he laughed, showing her cheek to her lips the beautiful wild.
Rafael, at first, also found it funny and seriously responded the question of his friend: - You got it.
Penis, you have it.
But after seeming was heavy, and really jokes and concluded by saying: - Enough, Pepe, do not abuse the physical.
And left the room.
A few moments later re-entered with Alvaro Luna and his beloved the Conchillas.
Rafael went ahead with the cup in his hand and sang: - Died Alvarito, May he rest in glory; DRINK ME a drink to his memory.
Occurrence was funny because he had fought Alvaro afternoon.
And he told the details of the set
