In short, how much money we have? - That you do not mind.
I can not endure.
And with that, listen to Doña Paca, tucked between the sheets, while the other was sleeping in floor: "Well, daughter, no one out of my head that you have given a potion to this poor guy.
If you were not an old ugly and without any grace, believe that you had ding made ...
True that you are good, charitable, you know to gain sympathy by how well attend to everything, and for your sweetness and that modito soft ...
that it could mislead those who do not you know ...
But with all those clothes, impossible for a man so corrido garment you ...
If you believe and why you are inflated with pride, my view is that you do not compose, Poor Nina.
You'll always be what you were ...
and I fear not that quite a D.
Bottle illusion, telling your bad habits, what you were ssion, and other stuff, other stuff that you know, and I ...».
Benina silent, covering her mouth with a sheet, and this humility and moderation lit more the rencorcillo Zapata's widow, who continued molesting her companion: "No one recognizes like me your good qualities, because you have, but we must always put away do not let you out of your low status, so you do not lawless, so you will not upload to the higher beard.
your cynicism at the ugly vice, which ...
Do not say anything? ...
Maybe when the lady is tired and shut up, open it to tell me ...
Failure to keep accounts or target anything, it was just the natural way my boundless generosity.
I let everyone I stole, I saw the thief's hand getting into my pocket, and I was the fool ...
I have always been so.
What God does not forgive, Benin, is the hypocrisy, the procedures with overlapping, and study with some people make up their acts to look better what they are.
Or do you not think of anything to defend? - Madam, scallops, because I'm asleep. - No, you do not sleep, is a lie: the conscience will not let you sleep.
I will not say they are very evil, so no.
I am generous in this as in everything, and say weaknesses ...
We are fragile, you can truly say, "Do not call me Benina but ...».
Fragility But do not worry, because you know that I have to go with Mr.
de Ponte stories to desprestigiarte, and pluck the flower of his dreams ...
de Ponte angel calls you by how well you do the garlic soup, acartonaditas ...
And do you think to yourself that this is sufficient reason for a angel woman called out in full? - But you do not care? ...
de Ponte Delgado put the nicknames I want. - You're right, yeah, yeah ...
Can I say it ironically, that these big shots, very tanned in society, often employ irony, and when we seem to worship, what they do is to take hair, as they say ...
For if man is on the right, and has smitten you with good order ...
you must proceed with loyalty, and confess your macules, Frasquito will not believe that the purity of the angels Heaven is anything compared to your purity.
The truth, Nina, in these cases the truth.
The man believed that you are a prodigy conservation, ha, ha ...
you've done a miracle, because miracles would, in the midst of life in Madrid and the kind of domestic service, a virginity of sixty years ...
You plantarte in fifty-five, if you should ...
But if you cheat on age, this is fraud very common in our sex, jokes do not go with what is moral law, Nina, why not.
Look, daughter, I love you very much, and as a lady friend of yours and I advise that you speak clearly, tell you your faults and falls.
So the good Lord will not call hoax, they walk the time you discover what her to hide.
No, Nina, no, my dear, tell all, although I get my face very red, and congested the wart you carry in your face.
Confess your severe lack of those times, when thirty-five years ...
Bottle, I wanted a civilian guard was called Romero, who took me disordered over two years, and finally refused to marry me ...».
Love a man.
You had the misfortune to stumble with one, you went wrong.
Matter of luck, my dear.
I remember well.
Sisabas a great time, and while you did not have a decent suit, he did not lack good cigars ...
To me, he saw your sufferings and your blindness, as tormented and without a quiet day, instead of fleeing of punishment, going to him for me, I saw all this, nobody has to tell me, Nina.
I know history, but not know the whole entire thing because I've always hidden ...
and I reported things I do not know if they are true or not ...
They told me that you had your love ... - That's not true. - And you threw it to the Foundling ... - That's not true - he repeated with emphasis Benina firm and sonorous voice, sitting up in bed.
As Benina not respond to these demonstrations, Doña Paca, and about midnight, it started to call her "Nina, Nina, if you only knew how bad I am!
You sleep like a basket.
It may be that the paninis.
This illusion both asleep, and dreams were still hearing the ting, ting ...
I do not know what else ...
Benina fled from the chair, looking around him the great hind legs of a donkey, two peas beaten, and to know the tricks and his education asses and gitanesca, and went to the houses that he motioned that of perfect teeth
