True that in times of Doña Silvia were both at mass, by routine, but nothing more.
Well after a widower, the few ideas of the Catechism Worse than kept in his mind as useless papers or notes, shuffles with anyone farrago of Humanity, by making an unholy mess.
In fact, none of these theologies long time occupied Magin's cheap, always attentive to the reality of their business down.
But the day came, rather, a night such ideas had to take possession of his mind with some toughness, so right now I shall refer.
My man came home one afternoon when he fell from the month of February, evacuated thousand steps with varying success, running the steps that would give the next day when his daughter, who opened the door, he said these words: "Do not worry, Dad, it's nothing ...
Valentin has been bad in school. " The uneasiness of the monster put to D.
Francisco in great shock.
Which is announced could be negligible, and others.
However, in the voice of Rufina had a tremor, a veil, a strange ring that left cold and fail to Torquemada. "I think it is not anything more - seems continued .-- Miss which gave a faint.
The teacher who was brought ...
in her arms. " Worst still stuck in the hall, unable to say anything or to take a step. "I went to bed at once, and sent a message to Quevedo to come to escape." D.
Francisco, out of his stupor as if he had been a whip, ran the fourth The boy, whom he saw in the bed with her coat both seemed stifled.
His stillness was painful slumber of quiet sleep.
The father applied his hand to the brow of innocent monster, who blazed. - But that thing of Quevedillo ....
I do not know what you think ....
Look better called another doctor who knows more.
That son was not a son anyone, and could not sick without altering the order of the universe.
Not tested afflicted Food father, did nothing but walk around the house, waiting for the damn doctor, and without stop going to his room at the child, hence the dining room, where he appeared before his eyes, squeezing the heart, waxed Valentin chalked mathematical problems.
Persisted even painted by the morning, scribbling Torquemada did not understand, but almost I did mourn as a sad music: the root sign, points above and below, and elsewhere in a network of lines, forming star antics many peaks in ends.
At last, praise God, came the happy Quevedo, and D.
Francisco threw the corresponding chillería, for it treated him like son.
Seen and examined the child, the doctor did not quite good face.
A Torquemada he could choke on a hair, when the little doctor, leaning against the wall and putting his hands on his shoulders, said: "I do not like this, but have to wait till tomorrow to see if it springs a rash.
Things to do with Valentine is to put cowbell around his neck, let go in the field in the middle of a herd, not to bring to Madrid that is well grown. " Torquemada hated the field and could not comprehend that he had nothing good.
But he purpose if the child was cured of a pasture to bring him to drink milk to grass and breathe air pure.
The pure air, Bailon said well what were very good thing.
felt so angry Francisco, if you take a miasma at that time as part of the shaft.
Sibyl was the night to spend time with his friend, and see where we repeated the rattle of Humanity, resembling the cleric Torquemada most enigmatic and lateral than ever, longer arms, her face harder and fearful.
By staying only, the usurer did not lie down.
Since Quevedo Rufina and stayed to watch, he also would watch.
Adjacent to the bedroom was the father of the children, and it's bed Valentine who spent the night very restless, choked, throwing light on their skin, sparkling eyes and stunned, speech unsafe unthreading ideas, like beads on a rosary whose thread is broken.
IV The next day was all shock and bitterness.
Quevedo said the disease was inflammation of the meninges, and that the boy was in danger of death.
This is not the father said, but Bailon for you to be prepared.
Torquemada and he was locked up, and the conference was that little stick, as D.
Francisco, upset by pain, he called his friend a liar and fraud.
Had to go to several measures of its difficult job, and every moment returned home, panting, tongue hanging out half span, the fungus was pushed back.
The night of the second day Torquemada, dog-tired, was stuffed into one of the chairs of the room, and there was an average liorita, turning a mischievous idea, hard ayi and with many corners, that he had gotten into the brain. "I have failed to humanity, and this very so-and charged me the credits back now ....
No: for if God, or who Anyhow, I take my son, I am going to become more evil, more dog ...!
You'll see then which is fine cinnamon.
For not missing anything ....
Do not play with me ....
But no, what nonsense say!
That they say I have not done anybody any good, is a lie.
Let me try it ...
Hey, now I'm charging: if I have not done any good, now I will, now, because for some it is said that it is never to late.
Let's see: what if I put now to pray, what would they say up there?
Bailon seems to me that is wrong and humanity should not be God, but the Virgin ....
do not we look at the materialism of the word.
Humanity is God, the Virgin and all saints together ....
Tente, man, Stand, you crazy ....
If I put good to my son, I do not know what things do, but what things so magnificent and so ...!
And they envy me because I'm his father, because of these bones and this blood came aquela and glory of the world ....
men, fellows, we who We are all very crooks, so what happens to us happens to us ....
well is we deserved. " Then remembered the next day was Sunday and there was widespread receipts for collect the rents of his house.
After this operation to devote half an hour, rested several times, stretching out in the living room couch.
In the morning, between nine and ten, was to dominguera collections.
With your bad eating and sleeping and the most bitter grief that tore the soul, was the man himself to an olive color.
When the cobbler, who in his shop had dirty portal, enter the home and saw noticed his face distorted and one walk drunk, shrieked as he dropped the riveting hammer the tacks.
The presence of Torquemada in the courtyard, which all Sunday was occurring objectionable appearance that day was real panic, and while Some women ran to take refuge in their respective chambers, and others, who must have bad payers, and who saw the face that brought the beast, they went to the street.
The collection for the quarter began with low, and paid without question the mason and the two cigarette cases, forward they are destroyed before the hated stamp of Don Francisco.
Something unusual and abnormal noticed it, then took the money, mechanically and without consideration to trifle rusty, as other times, as if he had thought a hundred leagues of the event was important doing, not you heard those rumblings of dog biter, and inspected the rooms looking for the broken tile or piece of plaster fallen, to take the time to the tenant.
By the fourth of Rumaldo, laundress, widow, with her sick mother in a cot and three minor children who were in the yard teaching the meat through the holes in clothing, Torquemada ordinance dropped the grunt, and poor women, distraught and trembling voice, which if I had to confess to the crime a black judge, dropped the phrase rules: 'D.
Francisco, is not currently possible.
Another day I will carry. "I can not give an idea of ??the wonder of that woman and the two neighbors who were present, when they saw the spat does not mean that mouth no curse or heresy, when they heard him say with tearful voice dull and the world: "No, daughter, if you do not say anything ...
if you do not rush ...
Instead of thanking me what I do for you, I calumniáis ...
No, no: let us understand.
You, Rumaldo, be quiet: I know you have needs that Times are bad ...
When times are bad, girls, what we do but to help one to another?
Want you go on a road?
A Tarascan see if any of them claiming that I have no humanity.
Because what intention to pay, you have it.
Abur, you, do not suffocate.
And do not think I do this to throw me blessings.
But recorded you do not choke, and so you see how good I am ....» He stopped and thought for a moment, putting his hand into his pocket and looking down. "Nothing, nothing ....
Stay with God. " And to another.
Claimed in the following three doors without any difficulty. 'D.
Francis I you put new stone on the Ornilla, here you can not cook ....» In other circumstances, this claim would have been the beginning of a chillería tremendous wit: "Put the Traspontina on the burner, scoundrel, and gun fire up Look at the guy manguitillas .»--«, so poison him back rooms. "But that day everything was peace and harmony and gave Torquemada As he demanded. "Ay, D.
Francisco! - Told another at 11, - has the syringes fifty real.
So that they can gather, we have not eaten more than two quarters of gallinejas and two liver with dry bread ....
But not to see the character of that face and not hear him, I'd stay with Paris tips. - Look, that's an insult, an injustice, because if I put down other times not been for the materialism of money, but because I like to see accomplished people ...
to do not say ....
Or rather, not to take it to snub: twenty-five partámoslo and stay real ....
No, I assure you that I respect them all humanity, which I believe, I believe that, now and always will all the good that can and a little more ....
Behind him came the gossipy group, gossiping like this: "In that convicted him desavío has spent ....
Francisco is not good for the coffee.
Francisco with humanity!
Behold why this going out every night that star in the sky with a tail.
Is that the world is going to end. " At number 16: "But the daughter of my soul, so hussy, did you have to your bad girl and I had not said anything?
Frankly, that's an insult that you do not forgive, do not forgive.
You are an indecent and proof that you do not have a shred of sense, you bet he'll never guess I'm going to do?
How much will not you guess? ...
Abur. " In the quarter Casiana Sena, a neighbor ventured to say, "D.
Francisco, us do not you give us ....
Taking the money, said a hollow voice: "If you did, Casiana, the same would be.
I repeat that I do not drown the poor ...
as I too am poor ....
Who say (getting with anxiety and anger) that I am inhuman, lying more than the Gazette.
I'm human, I feel sorry the unfortunate, I help as I can, because it sends us humanity, and good know all that and miss it to the Site, you will pay sooner or later, and if you are good you shall have your reward.
I swear by this image of the Virgin of Sorrows with Son died in the arms (pointing to a picture), I swear that if I have similar charitable and well, not this mean that it is not, daggers!
and if necessary testing, testing be given.
Come on, who did not believe ...
as all get out with two hundred thousand pairs of demons than me to be good enough for me ....
Do not need anyone to give me hype.
I pass by the nose your blessings. " That said stampede left.
All looked at him down the stairs, and the patio below, and the portal outside, making such gestures appeared to be the devil himself crossing.
V He ran to his house, and against his habit (he was a man who commonly preferred despernarse to spend a penny), took a car to get more soon.
Wood it - shouted .-- It seems I have a great hurry. " Finally arrived, and panting up the stairs of his home, his hopes for the reasoned way: "Do not go now saying it is for my sins, because all there ..." What a disappointment to see the face of Rufina so sad, and to hear that the same thing, Dad, that rang in his ears like funeral bell!
He went up on tiptoe to the patient and examined.
As the poor child he were at the time dozing, Don Francisco could be observed with relative calm, because when delirious and wanted to throw the bed, stirring around the frightened eyes, the father value was so painful to witness the show and ran from the room trembling and terrified.
He was a man who lacked the courage to face penalties of this magnitude, no doubt because of moral deficiency, he was frightened, shocked, and as responsible for so much misery and such pain.
Esmeradísima insurance assistance Rufina, no failure was the grieving father's bedside Valentine: the contrary, it was nuisance, since if you attend, of fixed, in her confusion, mistaken medicines, giving drink to accelerate its death.
What I did was watch without break, often approaches the door of the bedroom and see what was happening, the child's voice heard raving or complaining, but if the cries were very plaintive and raving very strong, which was Torquemada was an instinctive desire to take to run and hide their pain in the last corner of the world.
That evening he was accompanied Bailon awhile, the butcher down the tailor of principal and top photographer, striving all in comfort with the phrases of regulation, but not to sustain hitting Torquemada Talk about a sad topic thanked them with inattentive dryness.
If Valentin was dying, what the world was in darkness, ignorance.
Francisco when son, man, began to appear, to confound all the wise men, to turn turtle science all! ...
Torquemada would be in such a case the second person of Humanity: and only for the glory of having given birth to the great mathematician, would be a thing of standing on a throne.
As he would do about railways that would go from here to Beijing in five minutes, and balloons to sail through the air, and ships debajito walk through water, and other things never seen or even dreamed.
Reacted and soon became about himself.
No, could not be punished because he was not bad, and if it was, and would be amended.
Was enviable dislike and ill will that had, as sovereign as the author of eminence.
Wanted truncated seize their future and the joy and immense fortune of his later years ....
Because his son, if he lived, was to earn lots of money, but a lot, and hence the celestial intrigue.
But it (I honestly thought) to give up profits, pecuniary son so let him glory, glory!
The final height of his exalted mind was to give to all the materialism of science of the child, provided they let him glory.
When he was alone with him, Bailon said he had needed philosophy, and as Torquemada not understand well the meaning and application of that word, the sibyl explane your idea this way: "It resign, considering our smallness before these major developments of the matter ...
Respect the rules of the great All, to which we belong, and to come penalties.
That's what philosophy, or if you will, the religion to breast to adversity.
No his soul was the source of such comfort could go, and do not even understand.
As the other, after having eaten well, insist on those ideas, to D.
Francis I want to give it spent a couple of blows, destroying at one point the strongest profile to draw Michelangelo.
But looked upon him with terrifying eyes, and the other scared and put a in their theologies.
In early evening, Quevedo and the other doctor spoke to Torquemada in terms disheartening.
Had little or no hope, but did not dare to say at all that they had lost and left open the door to the repair of nature and at the mercy of God.
It was horrible night.
Poor Valentine invisible fire burned
