A lost've done a good man. - Why not bailed me for since the first day I administered the baptism of the five commandments because she squealed as I see him bristle a bit, because I make him walk straight as a spindle, and I was more afraid that the thieves to the Civil Guard. - And how do you want! - It's natural.
It makes a will of her husband, and pants gratings the grating me I ...
Ea, I'm leaving.
By leaving, he kisses Juliana Obdulia, Frasquito and a handshake, offering to iron our shirts, the current price, and turn their clothes, so same or less than what the tailor would take cheaper.
In addition, he also knew she cut for men, and if I wanted to try, encargárale a suit, that would not less elegant fixed that you do portal cutters that he wore.
All his clothes Antonio it was her, and say whether the boy was wrong ...
For him his uncle Boniface an American who had been released to go to town (Glass Gallows) on the Ghost, and therefore there like the garment, which it borrowed the mayor to cut another by it.
Ponte thanked, skeptical, gallantly, with regard to abilities of women for making men's clothes, and fired them at the door, helping to load the various packages, and packages atadijos joyful carried.
XXXVII Not wanting to be inferior to her sister Obdulia, or appear at home with less authority and chulita Mangoneo that the intruder told her mother that she could not manage decently with a servant to all, and as Juliana won the cook, she imposed the maiden ...
Yes, yes: how they would proceed without maid?
To play such an important position, had already chosen a girl fine Obdulia educated in the service of big houses, and that was free at the time, living with Browning family and the funeral decorations.
Daniela was called, was a beauty from the figure, and a portent of industrious activity.
Anyway, Doña Paca, so painting hoped that soon the girl was fine to recreate the service had to pay.
At night was Hilaria, which opened Dona Francisca giving a message of Juliana, the which looked more like an order.
As his head was so dizzy, the effect of the unprecedented events of those days, the absence of Benin, and why not say so?
the scent of flowers perfumed the house, had not gone through the lie to review the reams of papers in several folders kept as gold cloth.
But I would, yes ma'am, I would ...
and if Julie wanted to charge a commission as annoying as the play, the better.
Said the new cook who served it for himself if his cousin, and continuous act began to have dinner, which was very much in Doña Paca and Obdulia.
The next day was added to the family's maid, and much needed child and mother believed her services, both marveled at having lived so long miss them.
The Daniela success of the first day was thus so open and notorious as the Hilaria.
It would seem a challenging job and a young and competitive, which conquered betting soon as the will of their masters.
Dona Francisca was in his glory, and all that grieved was the narrowness of the room, in which four women could barely stirred.
Juliana, truth be told, did not look favorably upon the entrance of the maid, who cursed lack he did, but not crash so soon, he said nothing, and reserves the purpose planting it in the street when consolidating a little rule that had begun to exercise.
In other matters, advised and put into practice so thoughtful provisions that the Obdulia had to recognize it as a teacher in the art of government.
Ocupábanse find them also in house, but with such conditions of comfort, ventilation and cheapness loved her, that was not easy decision to not mix well in Madrid.
It is clear that he was gone Frasquito with a fresh wind of pupils home (Concepción Jerónima, 37), and so happy man.
Doña Paca had no room for him, and still accommodate you in the hall would have been difficult for being full of tropical and alpine plants, moreover, was not relevant or unbecoming a man known for elegant and some skull, lived in the company of four single women three of whom were young and pretty.
True to the estimate should Dona Francisca, Ponte visited her daily morning and evening and on Saturday announced for next Sunday excursion to Pardo, it intended to greening your hobbies and skills of chivalry.
Had a very handsome and stiff in a great big horse, and waved and rolled several times, stopping the horse and making a thousand antics.
Four were young in a good mood with Antonio Zapata's departure on that tour cyclists happy, and as Ponte spotted and giant beast, with cheers saludáronle and jokes.
Before leaving in the direction of Puerta de Hierro, and Zapata spoke Frasquito the case that primarily they met, saying this at last, with many difficulties, had obtained the order to be released from Benin and his Moor.
Departed joyful, and along the road began the match between rider and horse's meat iron, encouraging and provoking each other with cheerful voices and family curses.
One of the cyclists who was champion winner, came and went, ahead of others, and all ran faster than the hack of Frasquito, who was careful not to go crazy, remaining at a moderate pace and trot.
Nothing happened to them on the trip.
Polidura gathered there with friends and other trails, which went out with the fresh, joyful lunch, paying for half, according to convention, Frasquito and Antonio quickly visited the gathering of the poor, took the captives, and later returned to Madrid, dashing ahead to Benin and Almudena.
God did not want that back was as happy as the first leg, because one of the cyclists, called, not a bad name, Peter Minio, the skin as the devil had tipple over lunch account, and gave thanks to do with the machine, getting and taking off for dangerous narrows, until In one of those steps was to crash into a tree and broke a hand and a foot, is rendered useless to continue pedaling.
Troubles did not stop here, and more this side of the Iron Gate and near the Nursery, the Frasquito steed, which was undoubtedly already loaded the dizzying spin bikes that passed and repassed in front of their eyes, also feeling ill governed, he wanted to free themselves from a rider ridiculous and annoying.
Spent a bullock carts loaded with broom and oak for the ovens of Madrid, and and it scares off the pony, as he pretended horror, is that boats began to and more boats, until he managed to fire into the clouds to the elegant gentleman.
Poor fell Ponte like a sack half empty, and the soil froze, until his friends came to lift.
Wound was not, and fortunately not suffered stroke care in the head, because they kept their knowledge, and as he stood up he started to cry, red like a turkey, apostrophes to the road that he said had been to blame for the loss.
In the confusion, the horse, yearns for freedom, runaway escaped to Madrid not be caught by passers-by who tried, and within minutes, Zapata and his friends lost sight of him.
Benin had already transposed Almudena, in his journey takes the line of the nurseries, where the old saw go fast as the wind, hack de Ponte, and realized what had happened.
I know what she was afraid because I was not Frasquito for such jokes, or consented to his age so ridiculous displays of conceit.
But would not stop to know what some of the set, because reached soon longed to rest Almudena Madrid, who suffered from fever and was exhausted.
Step by step advanced in their path, and the Puerta de San Vicente, and about nightfall, they sat down to rest, waiting to see happen to the expedition to the victim on a stretcher.
But seeing them in half an hour there were, they continued their way to the Virgen del Puerto, intending to go to the streets of Segovia Imperial.
In pitiful condition were the two: Benina barefoot, torn and dirty clothes black, the Moor old, green and haggard face, revealing either their gaunt faces hunger who had suffered the oppression and sadness of forced confinement in what looks more like dungeon to hospice.
Nina could not take his mind the image of Doña Paca, or ceased to imagine, and in a way, and of another foster care home that would be.
At times he expected to be received with joy, at times feared find Dona Francisca furious at having her request that alms, and above all, to go with a Moor.
This was something sudden, brought from the overnight by D.
He had invented it, and dark breast of the invention out person Indeed, doing miracles, bringing wealth, and turning into reality the dream gifts Quia Samdai King!
Nina suspicious, believing it was all joke Antonito Joker, and instead of finding Francisca swimming in the abundance, find drowning, as always, in a sea of ??traps and misery.
XXXVIII Trembling came to the Imperial road, and having ordered the Moor that was leaning against the wall and wait there while she went up and found out whether he could not stay where he was home, Almudena said: "No you bandon me, Amri. - Are you mad? "Forsake me now that you are unwell, and the two walk as the doldrums?
I will put you over there at the entrance of the street Lett. - Would not you n'gañar me? "Golven you ready? - In seguidita see what happens over, and if you are in a good temper my Doña Paca. " Nina climbed out of breath, and with great anxiety rang the bell.
First surprise: he opened the door an unknown woman, young woman, of tipitos elegant, very clean with her apron.
Benina thought he was dreaming.
Surely the devil had taken up the house to weight bear her, leaving in place one that looked the same and very different.
Benina rubbed his eyes, thinking found even under the action of the stupid drowsiness del Pardo in the fetid and stifling blocks.
No, no that was not home, could not be, and confirmed the emergence of another unknown figure, as a cook fine on straight, haughty countenance ...
Before I could understand that whosoever glass sparkle came from the flaps of the lamp room, illuminated by a candle that had just lit Doña Paca to review the knives of the house Juliana bring loans had appeared at the door of this room, and cutting happened to poor old said between laughing and tasteless: - "Hello, Nina, are you here?
Stand back those legs, woman, you stain the tiles ... - Where's the lady? - Nina said, turning to look at the diamonds and emeralds, and doubting and they were effective. - The lady is here ...
But he says no passes, it will come full of misery ...».
At that time appeared on the other hand Miss Obdulia, screaming: "Nina, welcome you are, but before you get home, you have to fumigant and put in the wash ...
Juliana moved towards her smiling, but through the smile, there was a glimpse Nina Edger authority that was able to win there, and said: "This is now commands.
Staying at the door, a voice replied Benina whole "Here I am, ma'am, and as say staining the tiles, do not want to spend, say no way ...
I kept thinking about the lady, and whether they would also hunger, and if he would be helpless. - No, no, Nina: Since you been gone, look what happened!
entered the lot at my house ...
in those nights of misery and suffering
