Watched, listened and as much as she noticed in us a hand, I noticed it was even more effective and certainly more complete, and not deeper.
Her complexion, revived by soft pink, the walks brought air free as a reflection of light and heat than gilded.
Her eyes and face faster a little thinner, pupils and stained by the efforts of a very active life and cover usual lengthy horizons.
Its always caressing and noticed that the use had purchased tender expression I do not know what new fullness that will lend accents strongest.
His whole person seemed to have diminished in volume taking firmer and more precise, and travel clothing, which he carried wonderfully completed a fine and robust metamorphosis.
Magdalena was the same, enhanced, transformed by the independence, pleasure, for a thousand accidents of a sudden there, by the exercise of all forces, contact with active elements, by the grand spectacle of nature.
Was youth itself a creature selected, with a little more nervous, more elegant, more defined, A progress in the beauty and a resolute step in life.
I do not remember whether accurate then I realized what I say now, but I know of right when I guessed the superiority more and more certain of it on me because at that I measured time with absolute certainty and with an emotion I had never experienced, the enormous gap between a young, bordering on the ten-eight, a student just has seventeen.
In addition, a more positive indication should still opening my eyes that night.
Among the bundles of luggage had a wonderful rhododendron, uprooted around which had surrounded a proactive hand handfuls of fern and alpine plants, yet dripping water from the mountains.
That plant, brought from afar and which showed particular interest is the father of Madeleine, she said she had been sent in memory of an expedition to the peak of *** a traveling companion who is very loosely attached kindness, lots of culture and forecast and many considerations regarding Mr.
When melted wrappers Julia slipped a card that saw Oliver fall and which quickly took over, then giving two or three times as if trying to assess the physiognomic details, so to speak, of that white cardboard, read aloud Count Alfredo de Nièvre.
Nobody was understood from the name that resonated sharply amid a silence and resolved.
As for me, the more interested to specify the most insignificant details of that trip, what will I tell you?
I needed to feel happy, and that is encrypted enigma to many blind spots that even less explicable mine.
Among women and Magdalena almost emancipated teenager I just portraying, among brilliant years and mine had a thousand obstacles known or unknown, patents or hidden born or unborn.
However, I insisted on not seeing anyone.
He had thrown a lot of Magdalena least, had wanted, expected, and now you have guessed that after game was a hundred times cursed the reprehensible spirit of rebellion against me stirred the most enviable, the sweetest, least calculated of the easements.
Finally became so I loved loving, seductive to the point to wonder, poetry, and how they who happens to them too much light disturbs the surface, nothing warned me confused beyond glare blinded me.
With the absence of reasoning, rather, in my blindness, I immersed myself in the following months as if it had entered into the infinite.
Just imagine a spring, fast and very hot laughing full of love, of generous impulses, of foresight, of perfect happiness.
Tan strong was my expansion as a coward was the refolding of myself before this sudden flowering that I was surprised at the dullness characteristic of real childhood.
Wondered if I was not allowed to offer, I was fully with effusions in which As I had put in intelligent sincerity, the best of my moral being, above all more flammable.
I do not feel able to paint exactly that brief moment of selflessness total, which may well be an excuse for many fits of selfishness, then fell, and during which my life pure, saturated with good intentions, burned entirely by way of offering and flared at the foot of Magdalene as sacred fire before an altar.
It was the same box embellished by the prodigious brightness of a new life.
Causábame surprised to find it all so unique and that a single influence would have the power to change the look of things so far as to rejuvenate decrepitude and replace many aspects such as delinquent joys.
Many Sometimes I gave Magdalena arm during slow walks conducted in groups.
Night came down upon us and it was silence, on those hours in spoken less and very quietly.
The city closed the horizon with its serious silhouettes, the tolling of bells and the bells of the Gothic tower clocks accompanied German who rides in which I was not Werther, but I think worth a Magdalena Charlotte, because I never told him about Klopstock and if ever my hand rested on his was an impulse always fraternal.
Seemed Sometimes - such was the host of illusions that gathered in my head - which was about to deliver a masterpiece.
Was due to a force beyond my will and all that I possessed.
If the memories of that time have got the slightest of ignorance that made it so beautiful and so sterile, I would say that this singular power, always dominating and never submissive, unequal discipline, reaching at one point and walking away as he come, akin to what the poets call personify inspiration and his muse.
It was imperative unfaithful, two salient features that made me take it by inspiring ordinarily gifted minds.
But a day later, I realized that I caused so many visitors happiness first and then so disappointed, I had nothing but typical of the Muse much inconstancy and very cruel.
This double life heart fever, fever of the spirit, made me a very ambiguous.
There was more than she tried to ward off danger and I thought when the time to get rid of a secret no value except to put one more precious. - It is singular ...-- .-- Oliver told me Where will it lead?
After all, you're right if you enjoy that work.
Brief reply which contained not a little scorn and perhaps much astonishment.
Amid these distractions my studies were going pretty well.
Continuing achievement negligible compared to the greatness of the feelings that he was a man made small and in my opinion, a big heart.
From time to time received a boost far forced me to consider those less negligible success.
From the day we parted, Augustine had not forgotten me.
As permitted distance between us continued by providing the lessons that had begun in Trembles.
With the superiority that was paying the experience of life addressed by the more difficult sides in the largest scenarios, according to the moral progress meant his disciple, had risen gradually the tone of their advice.
His lessons and almost became man talks man.
I spoke little of himself and only in vague terms to say that worked, which was great obstacles, but expected to come to fruition.
Sometimes rapid description, sketch of the world he lived, the facts, the ambitions that surrounded him, followed the expression of good spirits that had to fight, to experience time and prepare the lessons that later had to find the most brutal realities.
He worried about what I thought, what he was doing and constantly asked me what was had finally decided to start after he came out of my province. * * * "I know - I said - you are the first class.
Emulation in the school is the ambition that naive you know later.
Get used to stay in front so you never feel satisfied with yourself if you were to take only the second in the future.
Especially not mistake the motive for their efforts, do not confuse pride with modest appreciation what you can do.
Do not worry, ever, especially in the moral order, that extreme height of the object and the need to approach it as much as possible, that will lend you great humility and great strength.
The general almost impossible, to reach the end of certain dreams will consider estimable and worthy of pity, the effort than man of good faith attempt to perfection.
If you feel closer to him, recalculate what remains to be done and the cowering worth more, from the moral point of view, not the Vanities. " * * * Let me show you some excerpts from letters of Augustine and assuming my answers it's easy to understand the general spirit of our correspondence and you will see more precisely what were then his life and mine. "Paris 18 ... "Eighteen months ago I'm here!
Yes, my dear Sunday, eighteen months have elapsed since we parted in that little plaza saying goodbye.
Twenty-four hours then every one of us got down to work.
Deseole, my dear friend, that is more pleased with himself that I'm me.
Life just is easy for those who glean without penetration.
For those Paris is the first in the world where you can be more easily the belief that it exists.
Just be swayed by the current as a swimmer in a mass of heavy water and quickly, you float in it, and no one drowns.
You see that someday and will see much success due only to the lightness of the characters and many disasters that would not have suffered with different weights in the convictions.
It's good to familiarize early on with the show's real causes and effects.
I do not know what ideas you have all this, if you have them.
In any case is unlikely to be accurate and the sad part is that you're right.
While you can not judge itself Get used to these two ideas: that there are truths and there are men.
You never change about the native feeling that you have respect to some, and others as to expect the day when they are known. "Write to me more often.
Do not tell me I already know his life and has nothing to refer.
It is the same the moments of a young man of his age.
No wonder then that rapid development, knowing you, I imagine to be surprised and perhaps scare.
Let stand forces that case you do not have anything dangerous to tell me that you know, let me seeing as it is and I'll tell you again how much he has grown.
If a spontaneous and creative faculty eminently subtle, makes you an item observation, if refined, if you look, if not enough to feel and experience the need study the mechanism, if the spectacle of a soul is excited that suits him of emotion, if it is surrounded by mirrors to multiply the image converging to infinity, if you mix human analysis to the divine gifts, if you become a sensitive sensual, no limits for such evils, and I warn you, that is very serious.
There is a very old story is charming, lends itself to many interpretations and the recommend.
Narcissus fell in love with his own image, he could not separate it from their eyes, it was not possible he reached to grab her and died of the same illusion that he had seduced.
Think of this and if it happen suffering, loving, living, as much as you see fit seductive ghost of yourself, stay away from him. " * * * "You tell me which is annoying.
That is as good as declaring that suffers, the boredom be more than empty brains or hearts incapable of being injured by anything.
If I were near you would know.
When I give the right to question him more positively tell you what I imagine.
If not I cheated and is it true that you yourself do not know what is starting to cause suffering, both better, because it is proof that your heart has kept all the innocence in his brain no longer exists. "Do not ask me to tell you about me, my ego is not anything until the present.
Works, he strives not care nothing nothing is fun, wait some time and yet still wanting.
And we'll see. "I live in a neighborhood that is probably not where you live, because you have the right choice.
All those who like me out of nowhere to become something, come where I am, the city's books in a corner of the desert, laid by four or five centuries of heroism, of jobs, hardships, sacrifices, hopes aborted suicide and glory.
The residence hall is very sad, but beautiful.
I pity you because you live there: I'm in my site. " * * * "Write you and that makes it should be.
That you keep secret from those around you is a shyness that I understand, and I am sure you must feel the desire to confide in me.
The day the confidence you need to take that point, send me the fragments can communicate without alarming too his modesty as a writer ... "Another thing I would like to know: what is that friend of whom you speak to me just now?
The portrait that he made me was seductive.
Take the easy life for the bright side.
In this case, advise her to live without ambitions, because that would be the worst kind.
And tell him also that no nothing else to do in the world but be happy.
It would be unforgivable to make chimeras in satisfaction so positive and mix what you call ideal vanity appetites. "I do not dislike his Oliverio I worry.
It is clear that this young man early, positive, smart, resolved, you can lose the way and passed the unsuspecting said
