Julian put on his glasses and began to read, with a white ruff voice that was quiet for these occasions, a chapter that described the suffering of a lost child on the streets of Paris.
Instantly began to arrasársele alterársele eyes and voice.
He concluded by anudársele in such a way that barely understand him.
Ramon found himself needed to take the file and continue reading to the end.
Castro, in the presence of those ridiculous, man hid his smile behind big top puffs of smoke.
Completed Chapter and discussed in terms most flattering to all present, Mariana turned his eyes toward his work.
He noted that would be needed a piece of silk backing, as it was nearing completion.
Ms Hope, who reported this thought, was of the same opinion. - Ramon - said the first - do me the favor of pressing that button.
After a moment the maiden the lady. - You must go out and buy a yard of silk - it said.
The home, after learning the peculiarities of the commission, prepared to leave to comply.
I'll see if by chance do I have what they need.
And he went briskly from the room.
It did not take three minutes to come back with an old umbrella hands. - See if you can serve this silk umbrella - said -.
I think it's the same color ....
Maldonado Castro and exchanged a meaningful glance.
Mariana took him blushing. - Indeed, it is the same color ...
Esperancita pretending to be engrossed in their work, but his face like a peony.
Was finally discarded with distaste the banker, who was muttering some unflattering statements about the order and economy women.
Ramon could not suffer more punishment of Tantalus that make the experience of his friend condemned.
She kept looking toward the place where he chatted and Esperanza.
Began to rise from his chair with a pretext to stretch my legs a bit and gave a few rides.
Castro gave him a withering look, but either did not see, or pretended not seen.
This would be enough for anyone to be given by a warning.
Ramon was not made.
Tried before extend the conversation with phrases absurd or pointless.
Even had attempts at grasping a chair and sit next to them, but was prevented by giving Castro, neglect, a fierce and expressive in the calluses stomp him back in their agreement.
He continued, therefore, your ride melancholy and quickly sit down again with his future mother and grandmother.
Soon was engaged in a lively discussion with Calderon on whether the paving of the streets had to be done by contract or by administration.
His interest was to do so, because in the end it was the man whose hand was his happiness or Unfortunately, but that stubborn and mischievous temperament which nature disputón endow him, drew him to continue, but he saw his father on and about to get angry.
All life on the college or attached to the skirts of his mother.
Leandro was a nephew of D.
Julian, the son of a sister who lived in La Mancha.
There come to spend a season in Madrid and spent happily together with other boys the same age.
For some field trip had asked his uncle's carriage.
This, by not to offend your sister who by reason of interest was bound to observe considerations he had been granted, albeit with great pain in his heart. - I think it has hurt the sun and the food .... - Well, indigestion ....
That will happen soon. - I think you should go there, Julian - said Mariana. - If it becomes necessary, of course I would.
But now I see ....
The point is that one of the mares, the Primitive is foundered.
how those guys do not understand, have had enough water ....
Julian rose prey of violent agitation, and without a word left the room Remigio followed.
Ramon Castro and changed again a glance and a smile.
Esperancita surprised them and blushed. - Dad takes to heart what these things! - I could not take it, girl! - Said Ms Hope irritated voice -.
And continued good time venting his fury, almost as big as his son.
Ramon Castro rose at last to leave.
Mariana, who had taken very philosophy unfortunately invited them to eat. - Stay you ....
Gone are the time of ride. - I can not - said Castro -.
Today, as in his brother's house. - Ah!
We will go (if I'm not worse) at ten when the triplet. - Do you eat every Saturday at Aunt Clementina? - He asked in a low Esperancita inflected strange.
His aunt is, in my opinion, one of the most beautiful and distinguished ladies Madrid ....
And he held out his hand with a dismissive air that struck the girl.
And trying not to get bored. - I get bored at your side! - Said the council, almost faint with pleasure. - Nothing, nothing, it definitely is not it?
Pepe him go because he has other commitments.
Ramon would say yes with all the fervor of his soul, but above the head the girl, Castro began to make negative signs, with such force that the poor said muffled voice - No ...
The council was so moved that he could barely mutter a few words of thanks.
Left of stay almost dragged.
Once in the street, Pepe congratulated him warmly and told him strongly that this would work.
Persisted in silence to his house where his friend and teacher left the full order head of grim foreboding and sadder than the night.
VII # Eating and sitting at home Osorio. # The day after having gone to the house of Raymond, Clementina was more embarrassed and regretful having done that at the time downstairs.
Proud beings feel remorse for an action that in his opinion has humiliated them, as the righteous when they have failed to humility.
When thinking it is the color rose to her face.
Not to see or be seen from the viewpoint of Alcazar, stopped going out on foot.
The young man keep his promise: he found no trace of him anywhere.
Clementina could not in good faith affirming.
I saw many young people every day in society more perky and pleasant conversation.
So, the surprise as much as irritated found him in mind.
It never ceased to protest inwardly against this involuntary inclination, and angry with herself.
After few days after the scene told an afternoon decidióse out on foot.
Failure to do so cowardice seemed to him, give honor to that little boy too.
When passed near home looked up and saw him as always veranda with a book in hand.
Underthe instantly and seriously crossed long and straight.
But a few steps felt vague discomfort as if you are not satisfied with herself.
The truth is that not even say hello or have not expected the greeting of the young, had not been well done after his frank explanations and kindness that she had used to show the rich collection of butterflies and provide him finely.
Next day he went by foot and realized the injustice of the previous sticking to peer sight in the upper lookout.
Raymond sent a greeting and a smile as friendly as innocent, the beautiful lady was flattered.
He could not hide the fact that this young man was singular sweetness eyes, which made him very likeable, and your conversation, if not full of pleasantries, showed understanding and firmness of spirit worship.
These observations should make them in due time, but did not for reasons that we ignore.
From this day started out as before.
When crossing in front of the house Raymond's never failed to send her nap friendly to the lookout, from which he responded with genuine warmth.
This flushed with pleasure at being called beautiful by that lady who knew both sight and name.
Pinedo hand instantly reached out to say goodbye. - You know that today is Saturday - said the lady -
