The churches are quite sumptuous and large, but irregular architecture and short-lived as corruptible of the materials that are made of wood.
The ornaments, sacred vessels, jewelry silver and gold that are served, so many, and so precious few who can compete with the best cathedrals in America.
The main house, commonly referred to schools are very capable and comfortable, regularly located in places of delicious view.
These are natural medium height and layout, the color is rather pale brown, particularly women, which, notwithstanding all walking barefoot and almost naked, and be ordinarily girls occupied for agricultural work, such as tents and other, admiring the small and well-formed feet and hands, and readiness of their bodies.
Are all regular skill and understanding as they apply; comprise more by sight than by ear, any thing that puts them ahead, quite perfectly imitate; but, more to be told what they see, do not succeed with it.
They are so humble and obedient particularly the Spanish, which recognize superior, obeying blindly and without consideration as they're told.
Sloths are commonly taken on the grounds that it should compel them to work rigorously not only for what is community, but also for what is proper to them.
They are also taken by skilled thieves, and in fact, less noticed this defect is not seeking an opportunity, because that is presented not lost.
It's big tilt with the Indians to know, so that whenever they are given opportunity to instruct the advantage.
Everything that the Spanish are seeking execute imitate, and are intent in their ears when the language is referred to some points of history, or they make some special relationship in Europe, by referring them to each other with pleasure and admiration.
But the pity is that they have closed their doors to any instruction; they do not understand our language, and theirs no one to give them notice of anything, but only of the most accurate of religion, they have no books to learn, or anything looking, it is imperative that your imagination is perpetually in inaction, and therefore live enveloped in the darkness of ignorance.
It is also great in them the inclination to try and recruit continuously, changing a other things, but having no knowledge of the true value of them, by chance verified treated equally, and it happens very often the fool some of the Spanish few obligations to deal with them secretly, without government or administrators can help it, because, though often makes them see the deception they have suffered, there is no way to persuade them not to buy or sell for themselves, taking on the decline The considered incapable of buying and selling.
But some in the party have also taken advantage others, it is not easy to be fooled, they know very well give the estimate to possessions.
All of them are inclined to rule and long for any negligible employment and occupation that is, and seeks to play as long as it lasts, and show plenty of emotion when out of time and for some reason they have given, they are deprived of employment, holding it ebb and dishonor also feel insulting words, and being in disgrace from which the commandments, so that in committing a sin, even if the boys want then whipped, and not abuse them in words, to return to the grace of their superiors.
Is these circumstances to employ significant and persuasive eloquence, and take little that lacks this privilege, but have other desirable, is far from shameful pride and punctilious, but lack of education and ideas know no right use of these virtues.
They are not used in trades dishonor the vile, even those just finding employment more honorifics, they do not know or distinguish the noble from the one nor the ruin of the other.
Nor is dishonor which flogged every day, it is that, if this comes out, also very rare which is not considered dishonorable.
Incontinence in women, unmarried as married, viewed with indifference, even husbands stop them little consideration in that, and so women are given the appetite of men, particularly if they are Spanish or Mandarin, with little reluctance and blind obedience, such is the disposition of his mind to obey all those who consider themselves superior.
These natives are inclined, like all Indians, the intoxication, but not practice, because they have no proportions for this, and because it punishes who is drunk, if any falls into this habit is because of some inconsiderate Spanish, for gifts that give them drink.
They are also very fond of music, whose period apply without being compelled, and so in every town there are plenty of musicians drums and all are very loud instrument of your choice, and so accompany them for everything.
No task not intended to three or four drums that are touching each other so much work, and known faint when they play them while fishing.
They are very patient in all the work, just hear them complain, even when rigorously the strike, not when are injured by some oversight of a big hit in the mills or tasks.
The same is true in their diseases, acute and intense pain may be your only because they are known they say when asked, or because the nature of evil are inseparable some signs of feeling, but they suffer from a constancy and serenity that he admires.
I I spent much time visiting the sick, and during these visits, and at times accompanied the Blessed Sacrament when given for travel, I've never seen a single patient or restless; always fixed in the hammock or cot on a leather bed that is regularly appear dead, according to the stillness that remains, only know they are alive by the movement eyes, or what they respond when asked, they stay until they die or heal.
At home are treated with great indecency and filth; regularly go naked parents and mothers before the children even as adults, and these same before his parents, and not as only a family but also other living within a single room, they are likely to live long together.
This seems to do because it found a convenience, with one stove for simmering the food, heat and lighting, and even join their meats and eat together, and as all this is done within housing in attending, have it so filthy, black, full of smoke and stench, which is repugnant to enter them, and contributes greatly to their filth and despair.
The Indians treated their wives regularly, and have as much below them, and require all kinds of work as well in their fields in tillage and weeding, and in its yarn houses and bring them everything they need for food and arrange it, apologizing As they are working and carrying the women, which not infrequently abuse inhumanely, supposing it is lawful and can do, and it is rare that the woman complains, even knowing that justice punishes those who behave well.
Parents care little or nothing about the education of children, or their food and clothes, because everything has to care for the community, who employs his pleasure where and under I think, since they are able to do something, nor yearn for purchasing goods leave their children, have no idea what is heredity, or even the current ownership of things because the custom of removing them, and leave others to see them go to where the common destinations makes them look at them with indifference and leave them without regret.
Resist with remarkable consistency work and hunger, often passing the whole day working, without having had breakfast and without showing weakness, but you admire what they eat when they have it.
The dress regular in women is a kind of cotton canvas bag, which they call tipoy without sleeves and neck, but only a few stitches on one of their mouths that fit the body; others are in the same way a long shirt to a dawn that is more decent, though and this is much improved.
These are very loving nature to the King, and very obedient to all that are commanded in real name, in the commune councils and explained how to persuade others to do what to tell you that it is commanded by God and King.
Similarly the Spanish love and live well convinced that the need to have what them, thinking that if the homeless would perish, and marvel that we leave our homes, relatives and friends just to come (as they say) to do the will of God and King for their benefit.
These people, from its reduction, have been maintained and kept in community, and although this method of government would serve the principles, then it has served, in my opinion, but to impede the progress of police and civilians, that would remain the same, in the meantime government does not move, giving freely to the Indians as nature dictates.
But before attempting this will be good to give you an idea of ??what this community was time that the Jesuits established, and what is at present since his expulsion, with the precise consequences that follow from it.
