This was granted, and hastily gathering a large squad of soldiers, left the capital decided to die on the claim or bring the Princess's letter Khan of Tartary and the son of the Khan, alive or dead.
After the departure of General, Princess saw fit to inform the Fortunate King of what had happened.
The King was beside himself.
He said the history of bird Green was a ridiculous dream of his daughter and the washerwoman, and complained that her daughter founded in a dream, sent so many murderers against an illustrious Prince, missing laws hospitality, the law of nations and all the moral precepts. - Oh daughter! - Cried - you have taken a clear bloody smear on my behalf, if not remedied.
The Princess also grieved and regretted what he had done.
Despite his vehement love the Prince of China, and preferred to leave forever charmed by their love shed a single drop of blood.
So he sent dispatches to the general to not engage a battle, but to no avail.
The general had gone so fast that there was no way to reach you.
When they reached the post where he was the general, they saw all the soldiers fled to the King and followed suit.
The forty of the guard Tartar, who were so many geniuses, ran in pursuit transformed into hideous monsters, who threw fire from his mouth.
Only the general, whose bravery, coolness and skill in arms bordered on the superhuman, remained undaunted in the midst of terror sick excusable.
The general went to the Prince, the only enemy who could deal with fantasy, and began to quarrel with him more brave and extraordinary fight.
But guns were delighted Tartar Prince, and general could not hurt.
Knowing then that it was impossible to kill him if he did not use a stratagem, moved a long way from his opponent, broke a long fast and strong silk sash which encircled the waist, made her without being noticed, a loop elusive and stirring on the Prince with unprecedented speed, threw the noose around his neck, and continued with his horse at full speed, knocking the Prince and dragging in the race.
Thus general drowned Tartar Prince.
As soon died, disappeared geniuses, and the soldiers of King Fortunate rallied and gathered to his boss.
This waited with them the messengers who brought the letter from the Khan of Tartary, and did not wait long.
On the evening of that day went back into the general at the palace of King Fortunate the letter from the Khan of Tartary hands.
Using a gentle and respectful greeting, handed to the princess.
It broke the seal and began to read, but to no avail: he did not understand a word.
They called all employees in the interpretation of tongues, not also figured that writing.
Although the Princess and her friends had wanted to go to the Shrine Knights, had not been possible.
Despite the natural goodness of his soul, his religion required him grim and terrible to curse and throw anathema.
Only three well-intentioned scholars, of whom two have died, kept in memory that language.
He also kept, by special privilege of the devils, and Nimrod descendants.
The last of them died, a week has, by order you, O Princess Adventurous!
and no longer left in the world but one person who can descifrarte's letter Khan of Tartary.
That person is me, and to make that service, the King of the Jinn has retained my life ever. - Well here's the letter, oh venerable and profound wisdom!
said the princess, putting hands of the mysterious hermit writing. - At the point I descifrártela, said the hermit, and put on his glasses, and approached to the reading lamp.
You have two hours he read aloud in the language of the letter was written.
Every word he uttered, the universe was moved, the stars were covered with mortal paleness, trembling moon in the sky, and shakes its image among the Ocean waves and the Princess and her friends had to close my eyes and cover their ears not see the ghosts that were shown, and not hear the mighty voices, terrible or mourners, who started from the bowels of the troubled nature.
Finished reading, the hermit took off his glasses and said in a calm voice: - It is not fair, nor appropriate, nor possible Venturosa Princess oh!
you know all that this abominable letter is enclosed.
It is not fair or appropriate, because it is frightful and possessed mysteries.
It is not possible, because in many human languages ??spoken in the day are those ineffable mysteries, unspeakable and even inexplicable.
The human race by Through its incomplete and sickly get to know why, when passing thousands of years, some accidents of things, but always ignore the substance that I know, who knows the Khan of Tartary and have known scholars who have drawn early to its elocubraciones, of the most perfect language and non-transferable and for our sins. - Well, we're fresh lavanderilla said, if after what we went to meet you, and since you're the only one who can translate this tangled letter, go out now that do not want translation. - Neither I nor should I, "replied the ancient and secular hermit but I will tell you what the letter contains interesting to you, and I'll tell you in very briefly, without stopping in drawings, because the moments of my life and my death are counted is approaching.
The Prince of China is for its virtues, talent and beauty, the favorite of the king of genius, which has saved thousands of times from the snares that the Khan of Tartary placed against his life.
Displaying the Khan that he could not kill him, determined to make use of a charm to keep him away from its subjects and rule in his place in the celestial empire.
Well he wanted the Kan charm that was indestructible and eternal, but could not achieve despite their wonderful knowledge in magic.
The king of the jinn were opposed to his evil desire, and although he could not completely ineffective to his enchantments and spells, strip them of much learned of his malice.
The Prince, but turned into a bird, was given power to recover their evening true figure.
Prince also had a palace, where live and be treated with the utmost courtesy, honor and gift due to its August class.
It was agreed, finally, disappointment, if the following conditions are met, that the Khan, so by the low opinion they have of women as perverted and vicious as what is the human race in general, judged impossible to comply.
It was the first condition, and carried out that a woman of twenty years, quiet, spirited and passionate and lower class people saw the three young men happy, they are the most beautiful there in the world, out of the bathroom naked, and that cleanliness and chastity of his soul were such that they were troubled and staining with the slightest stimulation of lightness.
This test had to be done in the spring equinox, when all nature excites love.
The women had to feel for the beauty and admire deeply, but in a spiritual and holy.
It was the second condition, and also fulfilled, that the Prince could not show only three moments, and this in the form of green bird, inspire a love so passionate and chaste, the Invincible, a princess in her class.
The third condition, which now is running to fulfill, was to seize the Princess of this letter, and I would interpret it.
The fourth and final condition, compliance with which to intervene have three daughters you hear me, is as follows.
I only have two minutes to live, but before dying I will put in the palace of Prince Cup next topaz.
Three you'll see, but you have to maintain, seeing, all your thoughts chastity and virginity all your souls, loving, however, each one of the three, with a holy love and innocent.
The Princess and the Prince loves China and lavanderilla squire, and both have shown the innocence of his love, now missing that favorite girl fall in love with the Princess Secretary by the same style.
When the three young men happy to go to the dining room, you will continue unseen, and will remain there until the Prince asked the box of entertainment and say, kissing the cordoncito: Oh, my lady cordoncito!
The spell was broken in the act, the Khan of Tartary die suddenly, and the Prince of China, not only possess the Celestial Empire, but also inherits all khanates, kingdoms and provinces, which own right has that charming devil.
Hermit just finished saying these words, grimaced very rare, opened his mouth, stretched his legs and fell dead.
The Princess and her friends suddenly found themselves behind a mass of verdure, beside Topaz Cup.
The three were in love, all three were chaste or innocent.
Even at the point committed to give the gift and kiss tight felt more than a profound shock to all mysticism and pure.
So I immediately became disenchanted the three youths.
China and Tartary were spoken under the sway of the Prince.
The Princess and her friends are still married were more so cute with those men.
The Fortunate King abdicated, and went to live in the court of his son, who was in Beijing.
The general killed the Tartar Prince got all the decorations China, the first Mandarin title and a pension of thousands upon thousands for him and his heirs.
There is, finally, that the Princess Venturosa and Emperor of China and lived longer and happy years, and had half a dozen kids each more beautiful.
The lavanderilla and the Maiden, with their husbands, followed always enjoying the favor of their Majesties, and being the major lords over all that land.
PARSONDES Although love and respect for virtue, do not believe it's so blatant and so skittish as that of some censors of the day.
If we had to write like them, if we taking their stiffness valid and sincere, and if we had to adjust to it, our writings, maybe not the traffic agonies of death, Venegas, nor the cries of hell, Boneta father would be edifying models to imitate.
The stiffness has no other result than to exasperate spirits, making them doubt and sneer, if only in dreams, self-righteous hypocrisy now used.
See, if not, sleep has been a friend of ours, and we moved here full when not for recreation, for the instruction of the readers.
Our friend dreamed as follows: - More than 2600 years ago, I was in Susa a satrap beloved of the great King Art and more rigid, severe, and morale of all the princes.
The holy man had been my Parsondes teacher, and I had communicated all the communicable of science and virtue of the first Zoroaster.
Seven years ago because Parsondes, after illuminating the world with their doctrine, and to form several disciples worthy of him, had disappeared, and that you return to see it, either living or dead.
Gave good believers, then, for sure Parsondes had risen to the region uncreated light near Ahura-Mazda, which shone almost as much as Amschaspandes and Izeds, where eclipsed, at its own FERU with beatific glow
