Doña Manuela fled the crash, which made her nervous, but before you get to Main stood still surprised and fearful.
In the gutter, people milled about shouting; Some laugh and other indecent exclaiming, clucking as if it were a dog fight.
The crowd broke through, and fast, with a blind impulse, as spurred by the terror, spent a dozen girls disheveled, shaggy, in sandals, with the dirty skirt almost loose and holding in his hand, instinctively extended bring down barriers, a pair of cotton socks, three lemons, a bunch of parsley, combs Horn, articles, in short, that can be bought with a few cents at any juncture.
That herd dirty, miserable and scared, with the pallor of hunger in meat and madness of terror in his eyes, was the piracy market, the outcasts who were outside the law, those unable to pay the City the license for the sale, and to distinguish the distance the blue coat and cap golden sheriff's avisábanse with instinctive cries, as herds to sensed danger, and undertook furious race, pushing pedestrians, sliding between his legs, falling to rise immediately, leaving holes in the mass of humanity that obstructed the plaza.
People laughed at this stampede at a gallop, holding Sheriff's persecution.
No one understood what it was for those unfortunate loss of their miserable goods, the desperate father back to the hovel where the mother was waiting ready to seize the couple's actual gain or administer a beating.
Doña Manuela also laughed a little, according to the view that the noisy chase away, and then entered the market for gravel, looking for wild treats people ruminating with delight at Christmas, forgotten during the rest of the year.
The coming stalls to the gates of the Principal; codeábanse buyers to the guard, and two officers of the guard, with his hands in his coat and legs hit by the restless sword, walked through the crowd looking for pretty faces.
He walked with difficulty, fearing to put the foot on the mats of straw round and high edges, which amontonábanse, forming pyramid, glossy chestnut-colored chocolate and hazelnuts, which gave off the pungent perfume of the forests.
Throwing nuts in their bags a cluck-cluck happy whenever the buyer's hand to appreciate the stirring quality, and a little deeper, like a treasure hard to save, was in small bags the aristocracy of gravel, sweetish acorns, attracting the eyes of gourmets.
