Every time fixed in the soil one of her little feet, frightened frogs in the grass were hidden, and gave great jumping, splashing in stagnant water.
Poldy, by hasty and curious instinct, he walked by the banks of the lagoon to the site where the tower looked like.
And being already very close to him, suddenly saw an object that although she was not shy, I was a nervous shaking, for being so suddenly and when least suspicious.
He was a portly white stork, who left behind the tower, and without the slightest fear, but gentle and serene, it came up with step Poldy slow, grave and majestic.
Occasionally shook his head from side to side with a graceful coquetry.
When was closer, took a few hops, extended and long wings flapped as a sign of joy, and repeatedly opening and closing the red peak, was a son very similar to castanets.
Turning then to walk more slowly and with some hesitation, as if respect him contained, kept walking toward the bird pilgrim Poldy, and stopping every two or three steps as if waiting for the permission to get to it.
Poldy sought in vain by all the deepest and forgotten breast of his memory some vague memory of that knowledge and treatment.
Was not the least trace even the slightest trace if any have ever had.
There was also in a stork do not know what the exotic: a weird way of being, well similar to that note in a traveler of distinction, came from very remote countries, with whom by that stumble and struck up a conversation without thinking or intending, and only because of sudden and mysterious sympathy.
I fell in grace and earned him the will to compliance respectful and friendly, so the stork gently looked at her.
Admitted, back in himself, knew the stork treat people as they deserved, and that naturally was endowed with exquisite good manners, but because parenting is not learned, but rather should ease called fine or refined touch of world.
Finally, Poldy acquiesced to treat the stork without anyone present and not knowing who was or how many quarters did, she gave also to her a few steps, and reached out and pleasing in his head touched.
The stork was left was stroking and satisfaction and caresses those noble taste caused him, squinting eyelids as if asleep and gently rubbing the long neck on the cover of the lovely lady.
It passed the hand down the neck of a stork, lowering it to the width crop, all covered with abundant and white feathers.
Then he realized with surprise that the stork had there, suspended ribbon very subtle, a small piece of silk fabric, which flexible and crowded, was very little bulk.
Poldy could not resist the curiosity or the desire to seize defeat from that pledge.
Soon So broke the tie bar through the garment hung the bird's neck and was with the garment in her hands.
It is not known if frightened or angry then the stork which might consider stripping, removed the lady suddenly, spread his wings, flew, soared into the air and finally out of sight.
Poldy was embarrassed as if he had committed a theft villain, but in the end, dismissed the scruples, thinking that she had had no intention of staying with the garment and was ready to return the bird if the bird came back to it and somehow the claim.
Poldy unraveled after more than a meter of ribbon was wound into the fabric of silk, giving form of ball, and unwrapped the cloth, which was the color of apricots, was written in it with very black ink in strange lines and several tiny letters.
She looked at them and the Remiro, but in vain, because no one knew.
Though he knew and exploited moderately disciple of his brother, Count Henry, could not quite intently to determine which alphabet language and those symbols and words belonged.
He suspected, however, that registration silk fabric were in Sanskrit, a language he studied assiduously and enjoyment of his brother Count Henry.
III Poldy the castle again spurred by curiosity and eager to decipher his brother he what the web said.
Lunch with very good appetite, and then, while the widowed Countess asleep after lunch, as was his custom, he went to the library with her brother Henry told him about the bird mosquito, taught him the silk fabric and begged translate what he had written it.
Count Henry confessed that he was well versed in the language to translate Valmiki suddenly the verses, as undoubtedly were verses there were in the fabric, but requested time and promised her sister have an exact translation of all on the same day.
Indeed, just hours after the count sought Poldy, took her back to the library, and triumphantly showed him the verses and translated. - Do not know what to think, he told his sister.
Sometimes I imagine that the stork came from India, where spent the winter, and the verses are the work of a Brahman, or Nabob Rajah well illustrated, and sometimes, I suspect that it may be a learned countryman of ours who wrote the verses and who hung the cloth on the neck of the stork to tease the one who find. - What end - Poldy said, was to propose a countryman of ours with that cheating?
I not yet know the verses, but I assured that the author lives on the banks of the Indus or the Ganges, and not on the Rhine or the Danube.
read. - You'll see and you'll find some inspiration in the verses more European than Asian.
Compositions are three: two very short, and one of these two seems modeled on four lines of the Prologue in Heaven of Faust.
And, although not impossible, I find strange and suspicious that a brahman read Goethe and imitate him. - Come on, read the verses without further preface. - The verses say: I wish to heaven the brightest star; I call this land their fullest; And no love near or distant love Touched my heart quieted. - True, "said Poldy, the verses are very similar to those of Goethe, unless the poet self says what it says Mephistopheles of Faust. - Well, hear these others who have not stopped metaphysics which Christian mysticism by Tauler style of the teacher or Eckart: Without wings and without light the human mind In vain in search of the ideal is released; But the will goes boasts The immensity of eternal hope. - That's true, - said Poldy, and the same can happen to an Indian, a Christian.
In India since ancient times, so I've heard, mystics as deep as Germany.
Moreover, in all countries, must have been thinkers and poets to imagine and express that could penetrate and come up with a love that never goes up and enters the rationale by subtle and large it is. - I will not argue.
I agree that a Brahman may have composed the song that just tell translated.
Maybe I in the translation I have rendered a European look in the original does not.
The poet falls in it lifts mystical, and folds and human as any earthly love with love and sensuality inspire women.
Something, however, is still in the composition of the mysticism of others.
It's like a small piece of the Song of Songs, or better say the Gita-govinda, whose compliments, tenderness and material descriptions can be interpreted by otherworldly style and transcendent.
Come do the Kokila sweet gurgles Do pay the lotus aroma in the wind Come see my longing wish And understand you my understanding.
You're not dreaming, you really are; Do not pretend these spells soul, Although most beautiful women Yours will call the immortals.
In the pure light in your eyes Love lights your darts gold and your lips are sealed ballot box Source of their pleasure and treasure.
Ora reside off the ground Ora show up in another age, For the three worlds in rapid flight I will go looking for you.
Bright pearl, though hidden In the deep sea are, I find you know, it's my life For me des exalted prize.
Poldy heard the verses carefully and discussed them with his brother and even tried with apparent critical coldness, giving some merit and pointing out their many flaws.
What she concealed and not revealed or his brother or anyone, was the swarm of assumptions and dreams verses that arose in his imagination.
Already contained writing them an elegant look young brahman, not far from his magnificent villa, in green bower, on the fertile banks the Kausikí, as composed in his own palace Ayosia Crown Prince of Kashmir or any other of the kingdoms and countries that described the ancient epics.
But the author of the verses was a contemporary of her and looked her end by the disease and passion that tormented him.
Loved or rather wanted to love, nothing worth seeing around him of his love, and looking away, blindly and without guidance the rare and precious thing that deserves to be loved.
In the depths of his soul Poldy pondered much on this, and wove and wove countless stories, their feeling beautiful, with which she delighted in secret without telling anyone, not even the old governess Justina who was his confidant.
IV Engolfadísimo in their studies, Count Henry had no will or understanding but to continuance.
In other matters of life was always subject to the understanding and Poldy will of her sister, whom he loved greatly.
Prohibiole it to speak with one of the meeting of the stork, the verses and the translation, and Count Henry obeyed and I stopped everything.
Poldy did not want his mother to know of anything.
The Dowager Countess was a lady endowed a positive spirit so prosaically, would certainly have destroyed all his speeches the poetic assumptions pipe Poldy had risen and that in no way wanted She nobody tear down.
The widowed countess and Zaheri also accused his daughter frequently, calling it extravagant of dreaming, hallucinations, a staunch enemy of the wise and reasonable, and reckless unattainable ideal persecuting and absurd.
If the widow Countess of thought and ignoring Poldy the success of the stork, did not they think and what would not say if he knew?
Poldy not return, then, to talk about him or his own brother, as if his own brother ignore, or as if she had the pretense that he forgot.
Alone, then, and freely, Poldy be included as they desire, the author of three poems.
Already assumed in Varanasi, and Delhi, and Calcutta, and elsewhere in India, but always noble, young and beautiful, and Kshatriya or Brahmin, if not a prince.
The unknown character suffered a mental illness similar to Poldy.
Symptoms were contempt and disgust for his surroundings, and the vague desire for a good remote, dimly layout and a half vanished in the mists and vapors of a thousand dreams.
Poldy discarded by vulgar and foolish belief of his brother, a German scholar had Sanskrit verses composed for entertainment or to show their expertise.
For her there was no no doubt: the verses were the work of a distinguished young gentleman from India.
Poldy We often went further in his bold imagination.
She did not believe that the bird mosquito that had appeared to him had the slightest resemblance or the swan Leda nor the white bull of the brave daughter of Agenor, but might not be an instrument of the stork a great sage, perhaps a genius or a fairy, whose powerful suggestions had obeyed coming to visit?
Sometimes came to the memory of Poldy a story of the Thousand and One Nights, and delighted to boast that what she had spent some resemblance to the story.
In the more elevated regions air, met one night a fairy and a genie who were flying in opposite directions.
There he talked and confided that the fairy came to visit and leave the most beautiful sleep Prince was in the world, and that genius, from the other end of the earth, came to contemplate and admire a beautiful princess also asleep in his bed virgin there in the recesses, elegant and perfumed boudoir of his magnificent palace.
Genie and Fairy proposed that Prince and Princess to meet, fall in love and marry, and the media to turn to do up the mess of that history.
Poldy, while smoothing much the supernatural, and modesty, for the skepticism that is so characteristic of the century This, he suspected that everything that happened could very well be quite naturally something that coincided with the oriental tale.
