A POOR MAN In 1852, came with us to California, aboard the Skiscraper, an individual named Fag, David Fag.
In all regions of the State leíanse eagerly the details of a terrible shipwreck, and those who had friends on board met to read compressed breath long list of victims.
I searched the names of all interesting beings, and lucky ones who had perished, and I think I was the first to discover, among them, the name of David Fag.
The poor man had, then, in fact, come home!
The outcasts of Poker Flat To set foot Don Jorge, played by trade, in the main street of Poker-Flat, in the morning on 22 November 1850, and sensed that from the night before, was made a change in the moral atmosphere of the population.
Some groups where they talked seriously fell silent when he approached and exchanged significant glances.
It was noteworthy that dominated The air was quiet Sunday best, which in a camp not used to influence Sunday, it seemed a bad omen, yet tranquil and beautiful face of Don Jorge did not reveal any interest in these symptoms.
That was something different. - I suspect that going after any - thought, - perhaps after me.
Into his pocket the handkerchief with which he had shaken off the red dust boots Poker-Flat, and with complete calmness dismissed from his mind all conjecture.
The truth was that Poker-Flat was after all.
He had recently suffered a few thousand dollars, two valuable horses and a prominent citizen, and the currently going through a crisis of virtuous reaction, as illegal and violent as any of acts that arose.
The secret committee had decided to expel any member of your breast rotten.
Practicose this in a permanent manner on two men hanging and the branches of a sycamore tree in the ravine, and on a temporary exile of several other people abysmal.
It is sensible to say that some of these were women; but in defense of sex, I must warn that their immorality was professional and just before a defect such as patent-Poker Flat ventured to establish itself as inflexible court.
Someone from the committee had suggested the idea of ??hanging him as an example tangible and safe means of reimbursement, at the expense of his pocket, of the sums that they had won. - It is not fair - Simon said sail - let that young Rodrigo Country, abroad by four sides, will drive our savings.
However, an imperfect sense of fairness, emanating from those who had had the good cleaning luck in the game Don Jorge, silenced the petty concerns of the fiercest.
Don Jorge was the problem with the philosophical calm, the more suspicious about the hesitations and of their judges.
He was a good player for not submitting to fate.
In his feeling, Life was a game of chance and the percentage admitted to the bank usual.
An escort of armed men accompanied the social scum Poker-Flat to the outskirts the camp.
The ride does not excite any comments from the spectators, nor the guard said a single word.
Only when they reached the gully that marked the last limit of Poker-Flat, the head spoke four words in connection with the case, which he wishes to preserve his life, should not be put more boots on Poker-Flat.
Then, when the guard walked away, feeling tablets breathed in some tears hysterical by the Duchess, in injuries to the mother and blasphemies Shipton that, like poisoned arrows, spears Uncle Billy.
Only Don Jorge remained stoic mute.
Listened impassively the wishes of the mother Shipton to take someone's heart, repeated statements of the Duchess that she would die on the road, and the startling blasphemies that seemed to rip off Uncle Billy shakes his horse.
To not deny the frank gallantry of his class, he insisted exchange his own horse, called The Five by poor mule he rode the Duchess, but even this action aroused sympathy among the wandering of the party.
The Duchess arranged his feathers faded coquetry tired, the Mother Shipton glanced malevolently the possessor of The Five, and Uncle Billy did not spare any of the game with his tirades.
Anyway, the way of Sandy-Bar, camp because of not having yet experienced the regenerating influence of Poker-Flat, seemed to offer some encouragement to emigrants going through a steep mountain, and offered travelers a day rather regular.
In that advanced season, the game quickly got out of the humid, temperate regions hills, dry air, cold and strong in the mountains.
The trail was narrow and difficult; around noon, the Duchess, dropping from his horse to the ground, said his decision not to proceed further.
An amphitheater village forest, closed three sides by rugged rocks on the bare granite, leaned gently on the crest of another precipice that overlooked the plain.
George, not easily lose their orientation, I knew I had only done half the journey to Sandy-Bar, and the game was not equipped nor provided to a halt.
However, only served to remind this circumstance accompanying his teammates a philosophical commentary on the madness of folding before the end of the game.
Were provided with liquor, and this contingency supplied the food and everything else that they lacked.
Despite his protest, soon fall into more or less under the influence of alcohol.
Mother Shipton began to snore, Uncle Billy passed rapidly from the warlike state of stupor, the Duchess was as lethargic.
He proceeded to remove dust from your black suit, wash hands and face and do other acts characteristic of his habits of extreme cleanliness, and for a moment forgot his situation.
Do not ever commit the sin idea of ??abandoning their comrades, more weak and pitiful, but yet he longed miss that excitement which, strange to say, was a major factor in the quiet impassive which he enjoyed.
Embedded examined the sad walls that rose a thousand feet high, steeply up above the pine trees surrounding it, the sky filled with ominous clouds, and further down the valley and sinking in the shade, when he suddenly heard his name called.
Did not take long to recognize the frank and lively face newcomer Thomas Buffalo, called the Innocent of Sandy Bar.
He had found some months ago in a practice match where to the extent legally beat any young candid his fortune, amounting to about forty dollars.
After the game was over, Don George retired as a young speculator behind the door, and there told him these or similar words: - Tom, you're a good boy, but you can play or not worth a penny, do not try again if you follow my advice
