He had the spirit too inflamed by divine love to see what that was to funny and interesting in this quirky character, to contemplate and study through the eyes of an artist.
That violence, even better, that ferocity, sensitive soul troubled; the lack of interest that the priest showed the theological issues or tiles above him indignant; but above all, greed sordid old man, who was with one foot in the grave Minister of Him who said, "ye have no gold or silver, or money, or your you bear travel bag, two coats, nor shoes, nor staff, "caused him invincible repugnance.
The pastor of Pe침ascosa rich man passed through, and it was in effect.
Fifty years on run populous parish and living with extreme economy had enabled him to put together a capital respectable.
He had bought many lands, but said he kept at home too large amount in cash.
And so it must be, who worked on attentive monitoring, especially night.
After ending his frugal dinner and prayed an Our Father in thanksgiving D.
Michael got up and staggered a little, because the torso was tough on him that legs, went to the dresser, took from her a couple of guns huge spark, and one in each hand he headed to his bedroom, under the astonished gaze of Gil.
Had ever seen his teacher, rector of the seminary Lancia in bed.
On her bedside table was a brass crucifix and a few disciplines bloody.
When comparing the two priests, was not only grow their admiration for this virtuous man, but also, in spite of his, was born in his mind a certain contempt your pastor.
This however, his humility forced him to reject this feeling and repeated the phrase common to all mystics, "so, it is better than me." Not only, then watched him as his superior and it taxed all due respect, but made efforts to portray morally better than him.
In the confessional, he offered complicated cases of conscience, not entering into the formulas of the books he had studied.
Seeing a hurry to solve them went to D.
Miguel in demand for light, the case exposed him sheepishly asking for advice.
The former leader listened with obvious impatience, furrowing his brow grim, used to answer roughly: - Go forward and not dwell on Patarata.
The lieutenant shook and did her best thoughts scare at that time flocked to his brain.
The moral theology of Don Miguel was certainly weaker than the tactics military.
After collecting the last gasp of the dying, the greatest joy of the novice priest was sitting in the confessional and clarify the consciousness of his penitents and lead the path of perfection.
But this joy was waning to see the smallness, the unimportance of subjects who approached his court.
Almost all were women: a miracle arrived a man to confess.
These women are always the same and with the same sins, they concluded bored.
At first, watching the docility with which listened to his advice, the burning showing mercy and love of the sacraments, he imagined that he could easily make each day better, lifted to sainthood or nearly so.
Soon became convinced that it was more difficult to change the lives of those pious than a hardened sinner.
Caused him great discouragement began nonadas those annoyed, those domestic confidences dull and foolish with seasoned devotees that their confessions.
And I could not but admire his colleague P.
Narciso, who spent the dead hours confessing with the same hobby the first day.
Not only confessed, but, for one reason or another, was always between of them: sometimes they were the Flores de Mayo, others the ninth of the Daughters of Mary, others congregation of St.
However, since the arrival of P.
Gil the people, the herd had suffered some casualties.
Narciso, and was happy to spend little jokes salt with their penitents, but instead had a delicate figure like a cherub, a smile sweet and melancholy so gentle and distinguished manners, qualities that compensated well other.
Some ladies and understood at least, and the rout was just indicated.
But the strange thing, how good the case was that the chaplain's favorite sheep Sarri칩 Obdulia of whom whispered that the young artisans on the day of new mass, left also his pastor, who bounded about spiritually, in the words of those in the garden Montesinos, and came humbly prostrate at the feet of the young priest.
Two months after taking possession of his office it, was an afternoon in the confessional praying for his breviary of pocket.
In the chapel where I used to sit there was no anyone.
Two mujerucas who had confessed had already left.
Suddenly a towering figure and slender door half hid, where it entered some clarity, not much.
The known long view, though he had never spoken with it.
He knew that he was very assiduous penitent P.
Narciso, and even had reached their heard rumors that rejected, of course, indignantly.
However, this young woman so fond of the church, as loose and wandering, it was not nice.
Obdulia had pale, extremely pale, where gleaming black eyes as big and beautiful few.
His black hair was also abundant, her figure slim.
I could not rightly call it beautiful, but interesting and distinguished.
He moved slowly through the chapel.
The young cleric believed to come to him any questions regarding general communion the next day.
But instead, Obdulia shyly leaned forward and asked with a trembling voice, where strange warning emotion: - Can I get you to confess?
It took a moment to respond, then said gravely dry states: - For that I am here to confess all you want.
The girl's pale face was colored heavily, his lips trembled like to thank; but not let out any sound.
Fr Gil was worried, very very satisfied with that choice.
Not that confess a more or less graceful young cared nothing.
The struggle with the flesh side never had great difficulty.
Women were to him things weak, needy, therefore, protection and advice: If you had to live always prevented against them was because the Holy Fathers were so established, bearing in mind without doubt his frivolity and his sinful nature.
The formidable fighter who had needed support was not against the sensuality, but against his analytical spirit of curiosity, love of science.
Necessary to saved could learn well in a day, in one hour, one minute.
The virtuous man is the wiser, because he knows the way to reach God and follows him.
These truths were imposed soon to his spirit and he warned against scientific curiosity and prompted him to suffocate.
Encouraged by the advice and example his master had killed the thirst for knowledge with the refreshment of prayer and penance.
Did, like him, love the inexplicable, absurd, because it better meets the aspirations of a soul in love.
But although she had not been for him never a danger, kept in the depths of his being to her spiteful contempt that characterizes all the mystics, not by the influence can exert on them, but for the unfortunate that displays on other poor souls.
On this occasion said that the young woman ran over, his reputation as unpredictable, bizarre, aroused in him a feeling of hostility that led to a rebuke so sweet in how severe the background when the young man said he had no reason to vary as a confessor. - I have not found anything wrong with it ...
But the confession that followed, long, sincere, earnest, more than once watered by tears, did change the layout of the clergy.
Realized that they were not a soul was vulgar, Slut with a frivolous, but with a Christian heart as his enthusiastic, played of divine love and eager to perfection.
There was certainly enough inconsistencies in his statements, details recounted ridiculous and even stupid and worthless at times, but others showed big and strong, stomping their passions and releasing their flight toward the light and truth.
The account of the penance to which impressed him deeply mortified and made forming it a high concept.
Without realizing it, Obdulia came to do on that evening a general confession.
To communicate the new confessor, the weaknesses of his temperament, the movements of his sinful soul, his whole life he came to mind: a very sad life indeed!
She was the daughter of the first wife that his father had: he had never known her mother.
His father had married other twice, but had not lasted long their stepmothers.
Was said in the town that the lewd Hunchback killed their wives tickling.
The poor did not understand the reason in such contempt, but for the hump that nature had given him.
What the girl did not know was that these young people he had been caught in a dark portal little decent situation.
It is painfully surprised every time I felt the fear that inspired his friends, and when any of these, more benevolent the others, showing compassion, irrit치base strongly supporting his father heat was very good and I loved her dearly.
His nature had always been poor and sick: several times feared for his life.
Children suffered from severe bleeding from the nose, that left her bloodied, annihilated.
He spent two years, from twelve to fourteen, paralytic of both legs.
His father had led a number of spa establishments to no avail: until one day, not knowing how or why, suddenly walked.
Many other disorders experienced his body, especially in the adolescent period, but the most notable, or at least the most caught people's attention and which came to light where it was spoken in the village, was an aberration appetite drove her to eat cal walls.
In vain attempts were made to his father and teachers to extract this vice punished her in vain, was closeted, he tied his hands.
Had a period, from ten and six to twenty years, his health was strengthened considerably, which made a dashing and handsome young man.
Your health quebrantose again, and although there was no repeat disorders strange past, began to decline visibly to feel frequent ailments.
The same father and his friends attributed these conditions their long prayers and penance.
He had undertaken a disproportionate enthusiasm practices pious, to frequent the sacraments and stay for hours in the church.
Despite all warnings and pleas from his father, never wanted to curb his mercy, before was daily increasing.
The influence of D.
Narciso probably had a good part of it.
Obdulia reached twenty-eight years without having had more than a love, when had seventeen.
Was engaged to a young man from Lancia long periods spent in Pe침ascosa staying with friends.
We talked about wedding, she made clothes the bride, was fixed at the time.
Suddenly the boy's father on the island of Cuba, and night in the care packages it and takes it, no one knows where.
After the abortion marriage, nothing.
The character of Obdulia, usually joyful, it was from then melancholy and reserved.
No doubt God's love was for her a consolation in this failure of human love.
Before any censorship burst out laughing and was not impressed, and now, more delicate observation moved her strongly, made him shed copious tears.
