Truth is always left alone in the fight.
Not by chance was if any of his daughters support him.
For matters outside the rentist address of the house often the opinions were based, some daughters sided with his dad against sisters.
But as looming economic problems, constantly looked to Retired one side and the other four daughters.
One day the girls would wake inspired, and called morocco leather boots were similar to those seen such and such a city girl, usually Fernanda Estrada-Rosa.
Christopher immediately retreated into himself.
Fell back and meditated.
At night, when dinner, slip into the conversation the news that he had been in The Innovative (shoe estate).
He had been told that the boots of morocco gave very bad result in Lancia, because moisture.
Nicanor (Medical City), who happened to there morocco had stated that the weather was dismal as cold and rainy, and by the feet got caught colds many times later degenerated into galloping consumption, etc.
Before, long before Matthew ended his diatribe against morocco, gutted it four buds with ironic laughter and ponderous words left confused and sad the poor old man.
At other times, the heated imagination of girls required to come Madrid some very nice coats, which had given news Amalia D.
Christopher some time resisted the attacks, but looking very tight, finally capitulated.
His mind, rich in trace amounts, like Ulysses, he suggested to save a magnificent half money at least.
He went to Amalia and begged to give him your coat for two or three days, so that one of the dressmakers of four other people do him the same.
not kept the perfidious coats who arrived very empaquetaditos of the chaise, and to offer the anxious looks and wizards of its four owners, it was heralded very high, so poor of ornamentation and of sewing Tinker. - These wraps are not made in Madrid - resolutely said Michelle, who was the most nervous four. - Daughter, no rave, by God!
For where they should be? - Exclaims D.
Cristobal affected surprise, feeling a warmth in her cheeks. - Do not know, but certainly we can ensure that they have not done in Madrid.
And the four nymphs begin to spin between your fingers ebony coats, the students, analyze them with attentive care that is suspended and terror to his father.
Meanwhile, fierce Overseas retired whiskers bristle, shudder with slight tremor which communicates to his lips and then to the rest of the body.
Finally, those elegant creatures carelessly loose garments mocker on living room chairs and are to be locked in the cabinet of Jovita.
Finally open the door, and criminal searches forward to the faces of the judges.
These keep quiet attitude, and her lips an enigmatic smile faded vague.
Apart from these periodic shocks to the wisdom of nature invigorated nerves a bit unnerved and the retired, the existence of this peaceful and smooth gliding.
Ni also lacked many painstaking care.
His daughters were engaged in putting in contention everything you need ready and in place: planed clothes, shirts and underwear smelling freshness ties, made of old clothes, as brand new as if saliesen of the glove, sneakers entered the house as, the water to wash the feet, Saturday, a cigar at bedtime glass of lemon water in the morning, etc., etc.
All regularly marched with the sweet and mechanical cause much pleasure to the old.
Truth four could well do without bothering too much, especially bearing in mind that girls were not always inspired.
Only the sight of a whimsical hat, or receiving news of the arrival of a dramatic company, or the announcement that the casino would give a Trust meeting, sudden burning in their hearts the sacred fire of inspiration, despertábanse his powerful poetic powers, and flight taken out of the house and threw the the dressmaker, the glove, the perfume, leaving all signs of their sites agitation and profecticio peculio somewhere.
While allying No outbursts of fantasy with the prose of the details of existence, they suffered some alteration.
Christopher in periods of crisis missed less, with regret, a few tweaks.
More soon time calmed the spasms of the mediums and things returned to their being and life was the same orderly and peaceful course.
The name of the former, in order of age, was as follows: Jovita, Micaela, Socorro and Emily.
It was four apparently insignificant creatures, neither beautiful nor ugly, neither funny nor unhappy, neither too young nor old, neither sad nor smiling.
However, within the home the each character and acquired pronounced relief.
Jovita was sentimental and reserved; Micaela had a violent temper, Socorro was the kettle, and Emily the most pert.
The two strong concerns that filled the spiritual life of D.
Christopher Matthew were reduction of military contingent and their four daughters to marry, or at least two.
The first had a good way: some time ago came the most conspicuous political leaning to that view.
Regarding the latter, it hurts us to say that he had no likelihood of class.
Or by sacrificing other amenities to rags, or showing up without limit to the balcony and on field trips or to attend the soirees of Quinones with a constancy worthy of being awarded, could get up to the present time the precious gifts of Hymen.
When a reckless touched this issue in check, all said that while their father lived cost very sorry to marry, that it seemed cruel to leave an old man who both wanted and both were sacrificed by them, etc ...
Here came a hearty praise of the spiritual gifts D.
But he was in charge of backing out innocently, showing such desire of being abandoned, so lively a desire to experience that cruelty, which was already proverbial in Lancia.
As if they alone were not enough to make a fool, poor Matthew helped them effectively, through the eyes metiéndoselas all marriageable young city.
The weights that the good father was the character, skill, economy and good government of their daughters had no purpose.
So a stranger came to Lancia, D.
Christopher no calmed to get acquainted with him and invited him to act continuous coffee at home and brought him to the theater to his box and snack to the field and accompanied him to see the relics the cathedral and the tower and the natural history cabinet, all the curiosities, in short, which contained the population.
The audience attending smiling, sly look at him leaf through, already had repeated portion of times without success.
The only one that did have a boyfriend for three or four years was Jovita.
So it was also the one that plunged the highest.
Heartthrob stranger was a student that was celebrated as the last years of the race.
Been completed, he left his people and, forgetting his promises of marriage, contracted with a rich palette.
The others had not reached that lofty level of the hierarchy of love.
Vague inclinations, dreams of fifteen days, a bone down the street, nothing between two dishes.
Gradually they were coming over the cold disappointment.
Although they had not lost hope, were fatigued.
The thought fixed, only that the embargo on so long, was becoming a painful nail in the forehead.
Christopher or surrendered or passed through his imagination to capitulate.
Always believed blindly in the husband of daughters, and announced with the same security as the Old Testament prophets of the coming the Messiah. - As my daughters get married, instead of spending the summer in Sarrió, where are kept the same Lancia cloud that, I'll go Rodillero to fresh air and fishing robalizas .-- Hear, Michelle, do not be so lively, woman ...
One husband scenario, that being abstract out all the time in conversation with same reality as if it were flesh and blood and was in the adjoining room.
The starting now typing on the piano was Emilita, the most musical of the four sisters.
The other three were on their feet, holding the sleeve of his coat of many other young people; as it were, into the breach.
The count ran a few steps with Fernanda Rosa Estrada-coming arm in arm with a friend.
Apparently it did not want to dance.
It was the girl who had more sheen in the city for its beauty and elegance and her dowry.
The only child of D.
Juan Estrada-Rosa, the richest banker and businessman of the province.
Tall, plump, dark brown, good and strong features, eyes large, very black, looking disdainfully, imposing, graceful figure enhanced by a costume luxurious and elegant that it was the amazement and envy of the girls in the population.
I will most perfectly, no you're wrong - said in the same dismissive tone, without looking at his face. - How not to be everywhere that show the star Sirius? - Exemption, boy, do not understand astronomy. - Sirius is the brightest star in the sky.
It was the same to be passionate and tender, sweet at times, angry and terrible other, marching to the breath of his whims, languid living in idleness
