We were already in the room; sent치monos all, and began to prosecute the visit.
Evoc치ronse by women's memories of the last chores in those days so sad, and I took the opportunity to ponder the loneliness I had been and what he missed in home ...
I do not know a fixed point in what way was tangled conversation here, because I mechanically mixing it with the word, while having the thoughts in Lita I was in front of me.
But a very strange thoughts.
Once dressed I imagined with all the frills of the elegant Madrid, and gave me the vision of the imagined deplorable fact that I jumped in the chair.
They seemed a profanation those trimmings in that body that had not been trained to have the funds the conventional devices of the city, but the immutable and grand scenes of nature.
until suddenly struck me the memory of that proviso had Neluco by auction of "Account" we were both on the eve ech치ndonos afternoon.
Could the "guests" not to be agree to it if we had heard adjustment.
The devil take me if at that time had I made decision to conduct any related term plan with the approval of our calculations, and, however, doubt emerged suddenly in the presence of "hostess" itself, I much resented.
No man is an ounce of gold that everyone likes the same, even if many a safe place, as I was then, and could very well happen that did not like Lituca me for special reasons ...
and even for being in love with Neluco without him knowing it, they all fit in the field of plausible assumptions.
But how to clarify this question in the act, without discovering the mystery of my intentions?
And yet, it could not be well, because I needed to have the main thread in his hand to pull it when I give want, or if you never pull more convenient for me.
Pure selfishness and rebellion unhealthy love contradicted himself, and as long as a man, run it, is in these situations of mind, the first thing missing is common sense, I guessed there was going to commit a fat crap if I could dominate a little bit of itching that began to be consumed, gave a cut to the conversation that followed mechanically, and end the visit with the formal promise, well he was!
to repeat often.
I do not know what you think of the old house Marmit칩n the confusion that must be noted between the words coming out of my mouth and ideas that I frolicked in the brain, or whether I even noticed, but the fact that as I was walking towards the house, creating serious purposes of clarifying the doubts go slowly, pulling the bottom of the clear stream the mysterious pebbles with tweezers from my experience and feel of my native serenity for those things, I marveled at the development that had reached that arrechucho mine, and how close I had to commit an improper light, not of a mature man but an inexperienced college.
