The old and Angelina awaited me there.
Aunt Pepa very battered with the shawl, the maid, fallen on the shoulders coat, showed her beautiful face. - Good morning - told me shy and timid.
What are you waiting for?
And you Angelina: Lady Jane to wake up at to stay with Carmen? - Yes, ma'am. - Well, let's go, Rorra that from here to San Antonio and we have to walk.
The chapel of San Antonio is in the Barrio Alto.
From there you can enjoy a beautiful panorama.
The serene extinguished their torches, and women's groups and children were rushed to the temple.
The mother scolded the kids because they sounded their horns and tambourines, and fearing that a precise time and others they remain dumb.
I offered my arm to the elderly. - No, - he said - I better off alone!
Angelina not refused, but I realized that accepted him for commitment.
Angelina wanted to unbind his arm, but I would not let him.
Find new groups that were in a hurry, no doubt to win place in the chapel.
In one corner ran into some "nacateros' their way to market heavily loaded with large pieces of bloody flesh.
Upon arriving at the square in front of us spent a milkman, riding a pony, a pitcher on either side.
He was young, well clearly told us her fresh and clean voice - It ....-- Mauricio said Angelina. - The Santa Clara dairy ....
Not yet opened the sexton, and all were struggling to put in a good place to go first.
The chapel of San Antonio, the "sanctuary", as they call the old villaverdinos, is a Churrigueresque church, very well prepared and placed on top of a hill from which dominates the skyline.
Four aged cypresses give the site a burial, the true appearance of the cemetery.
Pepilla aunt did not want to get to the point where the devotees were scrambling to break through, and sat on the top step of the staircase.
Laughed the boys, the girls chattered, scolded the old, and was a small fry around, with incessant noise of bells and whistles of water wonderfully mimicked the chirping of a chorus of larks.
Angelina and I approached the gate, toward the city.
And no ringing in the towers.
In each of them a high-pitched bell, urgent and shrill, called the faithful.
Villaverde lanterns glowed in the dark streets and above the rooftops like a swarm of fireflies.
Orion sank between the peaks of the Andes, and Ursa Major down to the valleys of Pluviosilla.
The whole valley revived, the Stony ran garrulous and singer, as if its waves softly repeated the strange harmony of the chimes.
The clear skies that night almost winter was gradually losing its immense serenity.
Of vague whiteness that dawned in the eastern peaks of the soft blue-green ink everything invaded, rose slowly, first swing and indefinable, then different and well shaped, colored clouds and clouds of violet, through which we saw the stars disappear between bursts of fire.
The church bells were calling the river was still singing, and whispering the woods, and came from the forests and glens something like distant sound of orchestras mysterious ran back in the mountains, in the depths of the mountains, unheard symphony.
Was opened, at last, the door of the chapel, and the crowd rushed into the sacred precinct.
Elbows on the fence we beheld the spectacle of this splendid entrancing twilight Villaverde landscape lit by the red glare of the rising day on fire furnace with reflections of the colored clouds on the horizon that rowed. - Angelina - I cried, shaking hands with the girl - you love me forever, forever, as I love you? - Always! - Answered trembling .-- As today, and tomorrow, even after death
