Moreover, the very idea touring America under such flattering auspices Alhague me greatly, and lit my ardent imagination, offering pre-thousand pictures each as attractive.
The natural sciences were the main object, but seen as complementary indispensable geography, ethnology and history, I decided not to discard anything, when were in those places, to bring me the most complete treasury of material relating to these important branches of human knowledge.
On July 29, 1826 in Brest, I embarked on board of the Meuse, frigate of the State, and gave first to my transatlantic pilgrimage.
I stop in the Canaries, where for several days I study, in sight of the famous peak of Teide, the productions of the island of Tenerife, and their ragged peaks.
Two months later we could see the coast of Brazil, and environment embalmed with the perfume of a thousand flowers arrived and to me, making me like ineffable and sweet emotions.
I was going to throw after standing on the world of Columbus, on that ground wonders, as he had always longed for exploration in the midst of the dreams of my childhood.
Finally took a seat in America for eight years.
The Rio de Janeiro with its mountains of granite and its beautiful and unspoiled forests was the first theater of my explorations.
Montevideo, Maldonado, and all the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, busy So by the Brazilians, then showed me their fields, which are similar to those of France.
I went across the Banda Oriental to Buenos-Aires, and then I embarked on the Parana, to transporting to the borders of the province of Paraguay, today declared an independent state.
Subi as three hundred and fifty leagues for this immense river, whose current is majestic hope that some day will crisscrossed by hundreds of boats, which driven the steam will rise up Chiquitos, making communication more immediate in Bolivia with Europe.
The waves of this mighty river, which has more than a mile wide, running over a bed and innumerable islands whose shores are adorned with colorful boscages, where the graceful entretege their foliage palm tree with the most varied and beautiful.
I walked for a whole year all parts of the province of Corrientes and Misiones, and after having entered the Gran-Chaco, turned around by the provinces of Entre Rios and Santa Fe.
Back to Buenos-Aires, I wanted to aim for a Chile or Bolivia, but calculating how difficult it would cross the continent to be sure, by the turbulence, after the peace with Brazil, undermining that state, I decided to go to Patagonia, land mysterious, whose name alone locked up then I know not that magical.
I was transported for there to the end of 1826, and stayed there for eight months.
I made my first research with fairly calm, for it was the most painful go one of the most arid country, and where water shortage is felt at every step in the heart of these monotonous and endless deserts, but the Indians Puelches Aucas and Patagones unexpectedly revolted against the rising colony of Carmen, located on the banks Black River, and I saw then compelled to meet its inhabitants to cooperate to the defense common.
Having returned for a second time to Buenos-Aires, I found this country in such a complete anarchy, , recognizing the absolute impossibility of passing through the pampas to Chile, took the game round Cape Horn.
Upon my arrival to Valparaiso found also to the republic Chilean in a state of agitation anything suitable for scientific voyages, and then provided the recommendations of the consul general of France in this State, I went to Bolivia, whose government should I expect a warm welcome, and the means to continue my exploration mainland.
Cobija, Bolivia port, greeted me of course with the impressive appearance of the mountains the crown.
Shortly after I landed in Arica for beginning to my journeys by land.
One would think there's see promised land within the wilderness.
