Three days after the adventure described in Chapter Two, was clear very early locked in the room that served as his bedroom.
The fan had said a few hours rather than wait for his nephew, and that it was necessary to accommodate there until they moved all to a new house that planned to take.
Clara was rapt to hear this news and could not answer word, because the surprise the voice was upon him.
This was small and irregular, was at the interior of the house, and had a narrow window, with glasses of dubious transparency, which opened onto a courtyard, the kind that so deep and narrow look real well.
Front and sides opened three rows of windows petty vents many other cells, where they lived busy families.
The room Clara had the usufruct of a light beam from eleven at eleven-thirty, when he passed to illuminate the tropical regions of the third floor.
One ray of light never brought no color or landscape, or horizon, no joy.
The courtyard was crowded room, the center of a human hive.
At certain times protruded for those holes so many heads: this happened in the big events when the blacksmith on the ground floor and the room ironing resolved an issue outdoors of honor, or when the manola the third and the front darning bring suit on ownership of the washing.
Furthermore, always reigned there Octavian peace, and it was something to see the friendly frankness with the esterero I borrowed a pan to the left neighbor and intimate confidence that they talked in the fifth soldier and the cobbler's wife.
Entwined around windows with others, by way of telegraph circuits, several strings of which hung a few squandered shirts, and from time to time as is slice of beef, over which descended into silence of the night a cane with a hook, run by the capable hands of the student's garret.
The window of the room never opened Clara.
Elijah had stuck inside from who occupied the house.
If the outlook was bleak patio, inside the room was undoubtedly certain charm, not because he had beautiful things, but for simplicity and modesty reigned there, and the careful cleaning and care, unique elegance of the poor.
Could be seen, first term, a comfortable voluminous, consisting of six large drawers with carvings next to the locks, and some slightly corroded scale, over decorative furniture quite old, representing a Grim Reaper figure with one hand raised in attitude to hold something, but instead of the clock that once loaded, holding time Clara a box lined with colored paper, which was to save women's work utensils.
Instead of the glass vial, this hid a piece of gauze and tied with blue ribbons to the legs of the goddess, which he held in his chest lay a scapular of the Virgin del Carmen.
A dressing table, three chairs, old walnut tree, heavy and shiny, a bristling fit pads needles and pins, sidewalk and mahogany bed very voluminous architecture, covered with Palencia blanket, completed the outfit.
Clara was in front of her mirror, and was busy becoming entangled in a thick braid crown black hair, newly woven and finished in the lead with a bundle of the hair and a red ribbon.
Two rows of small curls, locks subtle, twisted with negligence, I decorated the front, and white temples, as the line slightly transparent skin blue of a vein, fell two graceful tufts.
There are no more proper attitude to properly assess academic forms of a woman who that it takes when it reaches out and wraps a braid on her head, exposing her breast, the waist, neck in all its fullness.
Tiéndense chest muscles, it outlines the back, and the angle of the elbow and shoulder soft curves described in its expansion funny smooth lines that give expression to the whole figure sculpture.
After the combing operation, Clara cast a look of desire and distrust to the last the huge comfortable drawer where he had his clothes.
It was there, kept with singular care, a suit that Elijah had bought some years ago when it was less grim and grumpy.
This suit, which was the most luxurious and beautiful that the orphan had, had the shape and most fashionable colors at that time: a black velvet body with neat drawings trimmings and straw-guard silk, adorned with a big band, as to third, from black lace.
He doubted whether out or not: I wanted to wear it, and afraid to put it, wanted to wear that day her best dress, and feared at the same time be too cute with it.
The previous week was sewing and fixing the border of the dress that was broken when the man came, and suddenly said - What are you doing ...?
Elijah softened for this proof of submission, and more bitter and harsh tone he said to see her pull the drawer: - When you say you've ruined ....
But this was not the worst thing you heard the little girl while in shame, returned to plunder the tomb that he had wanted to desecrate taking it out of this venerable asylum.
If you also want the old to enclose it in the same drawer as a pledge never worn! ...
The determination that had worried many days.
The only way that would was worth to find out just ask, and he does not dare.
There was more.
For the sad street Good God used to spend a flower girl, who in your basket had some bunches of carnations, two dozen roses and many, many violets.
Clara watched through the glass to the passage of those cool colors that attracted the soul, those who longed sucking sweet scents from the balcony.
One day he decided to buy flowers, and Pascuala commanded by them.
Clara took them, kissed a thousand times, I put water the stroked, put them in the breast, head and could not help but look in the mirror that dress, put them back in the water, and finally, the left still on a vase, who had the impudence to place where Coletilla put his stick and hat when he arrived the street.
The fan came and approached the table, but to put his hat on it, hit it with the glass, which fell to the ground, dropping flowers and pouring water on the same legs realistic.
There is no remedy.
Clara wanted to answer, but even did his best, did not answer.
Clara thought at the height of confusion and fear.
Then retreat to her room, thought the same, and said to himself: "Will you kill me?" Could not sleep that night.
At about noon that Elijah felt walking in his room with more turmoil than usual.
So I thought I heard some words that should not be anything good.
Clara got up very quietly moved by curiosity, and little by little came very cautiously to the door to the room of Elijah, and looked through the keyhole.
Elias gestured marching: suddenly stopped, he approached a drawer and pulled out a knife very big, very big and very sharp, bright and fine.
Clara, seeing this, was to faint.
Since the night he spent in the garret of Dona Anxieties in the company of mice, had no fear alike.
At dawn he fell asleep a bit, but in his dream he had many knives as he had seen, and sometimes just one, but so great, that would be sufficient by itself to curtail fifty heads at once.
Arropábase more at every moment, believing in the errors of the dream that the knife, notwithstanding of a sharp-edged and brilliant, could not penetrate the sheets.
The next day he calmed down, and then laughed that Elijah may have been feared killed.
Beautiful garment that was sinful of sleep the sleep of eternity in the depths of the dresser, where serious food for worms.
Clara could not determine in their understanding what she could be of coming of Lazarus.
In his great joy he saw in that more than a happy event, not stopping to consider the events that subsequently could be derived from that destination.
Some vague ideas that feeling accompanied only expansive and disinterested.
He would a young man of position.
No reason in the middle, Clara thought a change of luck.
Somehow, were united in their understanding and confusion inseparable the idea of ??arrival Lazarus and the idea of ??emancipating a bit of nagging (not otherwise qualified) tutelage of Don Elias.
Into his mind came the idea of ??marriage.
Wine, yes, several times, but almost idea was not that: it was a confused perception, as a shy and wary hope.
A confused perception, we said, themselves, this perception is constantly occupied.
Lazarus was going to be her husband.
Clara also knew see the future days, and saw her husband beside her in a place that was not in a house that was not it, elsewhere, in another land.
And in another world, why not?
This have been the most successful ...
That day was very cheerful, laughed at the slightest cause, no reason was blushing, he was restless and restless, thoughtful stayed a long while, and then seemed to talk herself.
Pascuala nine o'clock when he returned from the street and entered the room of Clara.
Pascuala was a woman who was at his side the most violent contrast that can exist between two copies of the human family.
It was a vigorous and manly girl, grazed in the fields Alcarrian, high chest, wide hips, red cheeks, large mouth, nose girl, face narrow, hair pulled back in a big bow, brightly colored, heavy hands, large black eyes.
He approached the young and mysteriously said: - Do you know what I have wrong? - What? - Ciara said alarmed. - I've seen the melitarito the other day, which was here when the Lord came bad. - So what? - What?
Nothing but asustao me because I said I wanted to go, and as we are alone I thought something would happen to me ...
because as well as a nice weekend ....
Then he said that if he was here the old man.
I told him no.
He told me he wanted to get to talk to me ...
I'm too sly, and I maliciously .... - What? - I do not cheat so with little words.
How is such a nice weekend .... - Do not worry - Clara laughing .-- It is said he loves you and wants to marry you.
If you know the bartender .... - My Pascual?
I do not know ...
If you get to know my Pascual is a gentleman who says chicoleos Pascuala to ....
We note that this mop was to groom a Pascual who had founded no less than a Street tavern Shrine.
Those relationships seemed very honest and noble efforts marriage, and as she was so very nice weekend, that he would likely pair Easter is joined to the Church to give children the world and water to wine. - For as Easter gets to know .... - But I'm very naughty ...
Do you know what I have been on his head? - What? - That he does not want to come here by me but by you. - Why me?
Do not be silly - said Clara, laughing in the most natural. - Would you let them in? - No, look out.
although one is so very nice weekend ....
Malice I do not want me to me pa God damn thing ...
because in the end, always a servant and he is a gentleman ....
The two girls continued their conversation on the street when they heard the sound of excited voices, some screaming and hurried footsteps.
Asomáronse the three, and saw that ran several groups down the street.
The most famous neighborhood sparklers left their irons and went in search of adventures.
Glanced tagline of rancorous contempt for pedestrians, and closing heavily to the balcony, he said; - Another coup!
The two girls shook remembering the fear that they had a few nights earlier. - Oh, when will these things! - Observed Clara. - Pronto! - Said the old man dryly, sitting up and taking a letter on the table.
Read it, then took his coat and hat, and said to the girls: - I'm going to go out, I have to do: not come back all afternoon.
My nephew arrive tonight to about eight, I will not come until ten at the earliest.
And wrapped in his cloak, he looked a sad watch, compass had sad life the headwall of the room. - Do not open any one: careful, careful with the door.
When you come my nephew, give him something to eat and I wait. - But how you going to go out with these riots? - Clara said with fear you .-- Do not leave us alone: ??we have much fear. - To me what I have to do to me?
And then, as if to himself, said softly: - Yes, it is necessary to make a determination ...
Clara could hear him, and thought of the comfortable in the dress, the flowers, the knife and the determination, that determination damn did not know.
But even so, that was downcast and melancholy for a while, it was not enough to take away the happiness that days overflowed in his soul.
CHAPTER IX # # The first steps.
The people all had this strange and messy is not uproar, but what precedes it.
It was the September 18, 1821.
Most the inhabitants of Madrid were on the street.
The anxious what's up?
out of all mouths.
Then all who see us look bad sides.
The most curious incident in those days is offered by the arrival of the person who is supposed aware of what is going to be.
Rodéanle: the request is made aware, begins to speak symbolic language to raise curiosity, base feel that without the deepest discretion and the promise of secrecy can not say what he knows.
All you swear by the most sacred to keep the secret, and, finally, begins to tell the thing very dark; excited by the listeners, it was decided to be clear, and they fit three or four balls of temptation stiff, the others are swallowed eagerly, then disbanded to go throw up in other groups: are indigestible as this kind of secrets.
The evening to which we refer was true what happened to our friend Calleja, aware Fontana officer, had one of the groups formed in the Carrera. - Why, do not you know? - Said, lowering his voice and making a gesture worthy of the only Spartan, escaped at Thermopylae, brought to Athens the news of this catastrophe memorable .-- Do not you know?
There is no more but that tomorrow will be a civic procession in honor Irrigation, whose portrait will be paraded through the streets of the Court. - Well, well - one of the listeners said .-- Were we to allow it to be mistreated the hero of Cabezas, founder of the liberties of Spain? - So how bad is that the Government is determined that no procession.
La Fontana has been resolved and will: the portrait is ready.
As it did my cousin, who painted the coffee sample Vicentini. - And the Government prohibits the party? - Yes: does not like these things.
Indeed, at that time received a plaster corners official in the camp that read prohibiting the feast prepared by the clubs for the next day.
The troops were on weapons. - And tonight we have a great session in Fontana. - Look, Perico, save me a good place tonight - said a young man who was part of the group; - save me a job, I have to go tonight to the hostel early to receive a Hole friends from Zaragoza.
And then he added mysteriously, turning to two or three that seemed to his friends: - Good guys these kids in Zaragoza, that I have spoken.
Are the Republican club there.
The group broke up, at the same time, the sinister figure of Tres Pesetas crossed the street, attached to the equally unpleasant to vest.
Left three young group of those who spoke earlier.
There were three young men as twenty-five years.
We can not call them dandies net but could not be said them lacked any distinction and elegance.
They were close friends who shared his hardships and joys, the hardships of poverty and student loa pleasures of popular aura, conquered with newspaper articles and speeches in the club.
One was a young man of distinguished family, second son, whom he had sent to study Canons and sacred theology at Salamanca, in order to become a priest and enjoy a fat chaplains who had belonged to an uncle, cantor of the cathedral of Calahorra.
Chaplain you see my eyes, how to have a bishop in his fist.
Indeed: Javier, that was his name The boy had been a bishop, because his family had great influence.
But the boy, habits did not love and was impressed by new ideas, he made his bundle, and lacking of money, but not daring, set off, and stood in the same blessed Madrid year 1820.
Wandered the streets alone, but soon had many friends, wrote to his grandmother, half gave him forgiveness and some rooms (few, for the family, although the most Leonese noble land, was in a very precarious situation) then went to Zaragoza, where he lived for several months, appearing a lot in the democratic clubs, and later returned to the Court, not very well eaten or drunk, but happy too much.
Writing in El Universal furious articles, and content with his bit of glory, life was passing, poor but well cyst.
Captivates everyone for the kindness of his character and generous feelings.
In politics professed very radical views, and belonged to the fraction then called exalted.
At the same militant the second of these three friends are describing, which was Andalusian of twenty-three years old, slim, small and flexible.
In Ecija, his homeland, he spent his time writing verbs to Marica, Ramona, at Paca, to the fountain, to the moon and to all.
But all reason, and poetry to dry is more entertaining than: one day he found boring and thought out of town.
Passed by the army at the time of Irrigation, and the troops excited his curiosity.
Asked, they said they were the soldiers of freedom, and it rang in his ears with some nice harmony. "I'm going with them," he said to his parents.
These were very poor, and answered: "Son, go with God, and He makes you happy and good, behave yourself, and do not forget us." The poet followed the army crying his parents, yet it is known that he secretly mourned three of the prettiest girls Ecija
