So were the vegetables.
For one to be achieved by dint of care and vigilance, thirty or forty perished.
Surveillance constant gardener was not enough to prevent the considerable mortality.
The house style was not a national or even European.
Was built according to the precepts chinoiserie architecture, full of towers festooned everywhere.
What connection had these tiny brick towers with the famous Babel, where languages ??were confused, we do not know, but we must say that this works well trimmed, they called Babylon in the country of Don Rosendo.
No missing within it none of the comforts and refinements of modern civilization provides rich.
He was a famous Persian-style decorated room, bathroom, a spacious dining moderately cabinets painted and some nice small and warm, where the light came sifted colored crystals.
In this nest came to stop and Ventura Gonzalo two hours of being together forever.
On the way he had spoken to disengage from things indifferent.
The young man had applied some kisses on the cheeks of the girl, the same as when lovers.
Search Subject conversation, and all was lost.
Venturita barely looked at him askance replied with expression between mocking and passionate. - Look, shut up, shut up!
Shut up and kiss me - concluded by say laughing and covering her mouth with her delicate hand.
Gonzalo blushed, and hugged her frenzy.
His drunkenness in the early days bordered on madness.
Venturita was, by its singular beauty the languid, sensual expression of their eyes, the invincible tendency to break, true odalisque.
But not like these only a beautiful animal, but animated by wit sparkling, overflowing all the time in funny misunderstandings and happy occurrences.
Gonzalo is roaring with laughter, not realizing that it is dangerous to husbands laugh too much jokes about their wives.
The life you did was quite sedentary.
A Ventura did not like leaving home.
The sun produces headache; the cool of the evening was irritated throat.
Dressing took care of him, and varied costumes same as if he were in Madrid.
In her dressing spent a large part the day.
This is not disliked Gonzalo.
On the contrary, when I saw so beautiful and graceful exit, breathing, such as tropical flowers, a penetrating perfume, felt himself possessed of enthusiasm.
A voluptuous shudder shook her whole being, thinking that this exquisite work of Nature was his, all its own.
Sometimes the young wife, half in earnest, half in jest, was locked in his room.
They spent three or four hours without allowing enter, despite the loving prayers that reverberate in the keyhole. - I deprive myself of my sight for some time - said after laughing, - for having me want more with you.
And indeed, through these flirtations, the appetite grew extremely young, and became delirious.
In the hours that it pleased him to beautiful, went for a walk through the gardens, without departing much.
To get somewhere shady and cool, of the few reformist hand gift Rosendo had left, she wanted to sit, but not on the grass or on a rustic bench.
Gonzalo was a need to run home and bring a chair. - Now, sit here at my feet.
Let's see: you take those arms.
The laughing, is stripped of his jacket, rolled up his sleeves and showed his huge arms Gladiator, which took vigorous muscle relief as a thick web of ropes. - Good lord! - Taking one girl exclaimed with both hands, unable to even come embrace.
And suddenly possessed of enthusiasm and admiration, he added: - How strong, how beautiful you are, Gonzalo!
And she bent to sink their teeth menudísimos them.
But the youth spread their ferrous muscles, and teeth slipped through the skin without penetrating.
After all, he loosened muscles saying - I leave bite, but on condition that make me blood. - No, that's not - she answered, smiling eagerly expressing the desire to do so. "Yes, I want to do blood and if not, do not leave.
The girl started slowly pressing the flesh of her husband. - More! - He said.
After looking at the small circle of blue that teeth of the girl had stopped printing. - You see? - Say it again .-- Go embarrassed about the strange quirks of yours! - Thanks.
But no soon be deleted, alas! - I can renew it every day - he replied mischievously. - I would be delighted. - Come on, you want to turn your woman on dog.
This mouth is mine, and kiss.
This neck is mine, and kissed him.
and kiss. - Take me everything: my life is yours - he said that drunk. - I love you I love you, Gonzalo, so beautiful, so strong ...
What nonsense, seems an ant! - A white ant - he replied that drowning tiny hand in his large fibrous. - I love you I love you, Gonzalo.
The fatigue-walked around the park.
And from that day for a walk that way liked both the girl, who left the house as it hung around the neck of her husband to the go up.
But she soon found other means even more fun.
There was a swing close to home that time, rather than use, had deteriorated.
He had arranged, and as it was spent hours soon rocked by Gonzalo. - If you saw how joy.
It's a little stronger.
And the vigorous drive of the young, flying swing, and she closed her eyes dilating nose with a feeling of intense pleasure.
Gonzalo enjoyed seeing her so enraptured.
Passed twenty days of this sort.
During that received two visits Pablito and Pisces, once in tilbury and another horse.
In the latter into its main purpose was to riding a pony that Paul had changed to another older.
despite the alienation love that our boy was, he was visited by Equitable with inexplicable joy, eagerly helped in his task.
When he left he felt a sense of emptiness in his life.
Because it was so calm and peaceful, their blood and muscles suffering.
A day he told his wife to go hunting, he was famous and tireless hunter.
Venturita not opposed, provided it with you.
This was agreed.
They went out one morning to find a flock of partridges, whose existence Gonzalo knew from the day he had come to Tejada.
But before two kilometers away from the house, rendered entirely Venturita said.
Dona Paula, who had looked with hostility the marriage, it talked about going to see the bride and groom until after many days past.
Pablito wanted to accompany her, fearing that Cecilia will cause some pain to do so, but, aware it said his decision to go also Tejada.
One afternoon mother and daughter in a carriage undertaken discovered the path leading possession.
But as he approached her and descry the famous brick turrets, Cecilia began to fade, she felt her breast and troubled eye.
Dona Paula, who warned his illness, ordered the driver to turn around. - Poor child! - The kissing said .-- See how you can not come? - Because I can, Mom, I'll be able - said covering his eyes with one hand.
The next day, was accompanied by Paul Dona Paula.
Found a very enabling spouses to leave hiding the nest and move into the villa, as was done in the same week.
Cecilia left her at the front door and hugged and kissed his sister with effusion.
A Gonzalo, held out his hand, which for a sovereign effort of will, not shaken.
The young pressed with brotherly affection, believing forgiven.
The couple occupied the rooms that Dona Paula had gone into their first child.
Gonzalo warned, however, with regret, they do not wrap the warm and loving atmosphere that makes it so pleasing the domestic hearth.
From Don Rosendo to the last servant, showed them attentive, deferential, not loving.
Ventura not warned, and warned if he cared little.
Let us now view the most interesting issues of public life Sarrió.
