Sucre then placed his force across the mountains of Chimborazo in Mocha village, located in the parallel of Riobamba, and both armies continued their journey until, finding in Guachi on 12 September, engaged a fierce battle, the Republican leader, despite his courage and the carnage caused the enemy was defeated with considerable losses.
After these two months of this ill-fated war action, according to proposal of Sucre Aymeric granted a suspension of arms of ninety days, during which the general Republican who was worshiped in the country for its virtues had to prepare and recruit people in order reappeared in his day more formidable than before.
CHAPTER X First Congress of Colombia .-- This waiver does not support it .-- Publication of Bolivar the Constitution of Colombia .-- Punishment of law policy of the State of Bolivar for Election .-- the presidency of the Congress Project .-- Preparations .-- Peru free up .-- Pass Sucre by the western mountains .-- Occupation of the Province of Loja open the hood .-- Quito .-- Entry liberating army in Pasto Sucre Conquests .-- .-- .-- Battle of Pichincha Word Association Cheers Quito .-- .-- .-- Peru offer made to interview Bolivar and San Martin .-- State Peru Congress .-- Reunion .-- Expedition to Colombia Maracaibo Naval Combat .-- .-- Fortune shown favorable to Morales Republic .-- .-- Capitulation of Venezuela is free.
By a decree of Roscius, issued in Angostura on November 9, 1820, to May 6 Next year the first Congress of Colombia was installed in the town of Rosario de Cucuta, with deputies elected freely and legally emancipated provinces the power of Spain, whose number was twenty-two between Venezuela and New Granada.
Its principle dealing with the resignation Bolivar had made of his office politics, and determined: that this loyal and selfless patriot, while giving the state a definitive government means of a Constitution, continue as to where the action in the performance of their duties.
Finally, on July 12, 1821, after the battle of Carabobo, the Basic Law was published that, under the name of Republic of Colombia, met in a single national body to Venezuela and New Grenada with a representative popular government, declaring his independence from all foreign domination and all particular domain, and dividing the exercise of power supreme legislative, executive and judicial.
Santa Fe de Bogota was declared the capital to Therefore, in better times, a city erected to that effect with the name of the Liberator Bolivar.
August 30 was enshrined by the Constitution of the State, which differed from previous in some essential points.
The senators were not tenured, according to all charges Public choice principles of periodic and alternative, and the executive would be exercised by a single individual.
Among the important laws given to the country had two, one 19 and another July 28, two notables.
The first stated that since the day of its publication is Free considered children that are begotten of slaves, the other all the convents suppressed of regulars who did not have at least eight religious mass on the same date, whichever National Education for all goods and property, rights and remedies legacy communities who may be covered by the Act.
This makes exception for the hospital, considered the usefulness of their services.
On 7 September, according to the power that the Constitution granted to Congress to appoint for the first time the offices of President and Vice-President, the choice fell on Bolivar and Santander, that for the first of these jobs and this for the second.
Then, with date October 2, another law dividing the territory into seven departments, which were: Orinoco, Venezuela, Zulia, Boyaca, Cundinamarca, Cauca and Magdalena, and other various jobs after high Legislative body, leaving Santander in front of the administration, the Liberator departed Cucuta to Bogota, to make arrangements for the bell had projected towards the Sud So ended this year, fertile in remarkable events, and in the first days of January the next, 1822, in accordance with an executive order, the reunion of the military command was established in the departments of Venezuela, Orinoco and Zulia.
Bolivar at this time was headed to Cali Popayan to await the forces that intend to give start to the campaign of Quito.
Open the hood of Quito, heading towards Pasto, the Liberator blight in the Bottle troops under the leadership of Don Basilio Garcia on March 7, but had to mourn the loss General Pedro Leon Torres.
On June 8, entered victorious in Pasto, with prisoner Garcia and the troops who had been to this boss Spanish.
Activity is both Sucre and Aymeric Batian fiercely on the side of Guayaquil, seizing the first, one after another, Basin populations and Alausi, having to fight forever against superior forces in number.
Riobamba was taking place after April 22, after a brilliant battle Sucre which gave further evidence of his good military skills.
Turubamba the plains of this city is headed to Quito, situated at the foot of achieving the heights which form the crest of Pichincha among the peoples of Chillogallo and Magdalena thus flanking and behind the enemy.
Hastened away during the night of 23 Mayo, and the next day, to the surprise of his opponents mocked, appeared on the mountain, where they tried to evict those, but completely defeated and lacking insurance shelter, surrendered by capitulation, the city of Quito on May 25, the day when 280 albergo years before it first Spanish weapons.
Aymeric, with the rest of their troops remained in the hands of Sucre, the victor in the battle of Pichincha.
Four days after citizens of the conquered capital formally ratified the pact of union between Quito, Venezuela and New Granada.
The surrender of Pasto and Quito assured freedom in a vast and beautiful country, no hitherto trod by Republican plants, remained in the hands of Sucre 14 pieces of artillery, 1,260 prisoners, of which 160 belonged to the officer class, and finally, rifles and how many elements of war possessed enemies.
Both fighters, in sight of one another, waiting for the wind to be undertaken when patriots when they had been favorable, boarded the 24, three hours after noon, the enemy and fight renidisimo'm locking a winner Padilla.
