asked the young man. - What dance!
The style is the man, someone said promptly, the dance is a people, we say, and there is none like dance more alive to paint the character, habits, social status political and Cubans, or you're more in harmony with the climate of the island The night in question Ilincheta Isabel looked wonderfully natural graces that had endowed the sky.
His charm was in his word and his ways.
Until the season of holiday bonuses and blossoms, in which Leonardo Isabel met, contributed to surround her charm to your eyes and wake up something in his chest that he had never felt at 21 years of his life: love.
CHAPTER IV Princess .-- His name at least King .-- Never, never, never.
Dreams of love and ambition.
Pump Alley, such as San Juan de Dios, which seems to be its continuation, is composed two blocks.
Is, if anything, more narrow, deep and moist, even when their houses are generally broader.
In one of these, immediately Avocado Street, lived with Pepper Nemesia his brother, Jose Dolores, occupying two quarters in a row, unfurnished which was reduced to a pair of chairs, a swing, a pine table and a cot of wind, which opened and closed at night day, to clear the field.
Dark and, Nemesia left the tailor shop and headed Uribe often step towards Angel neighborhood.
He preferred to do Avocado Street, which although more lonely and dark by the absence of public facilities, driving right at two points where the step want to stop.
When he reached the four corners formed by the street and O'Reilly cross she wore, was arrested a short while, pensive and hesitant.
First looked back, then on your right, then forward again, staring at the window of the shack immediately to the pub on the left, but to be in line parallel to the observer, only distinguished balusters moldings protruding slightly from the plane of the wall.
Difficult was therefore to know whether or not a person looking out there or the door.
Consequently, the mulatto moved to the bottom corner and gave a peculiar high-pitched whistle, passing wind to force the teeth of the middle of the upper jaw.
A few seconds later he saw looming on the balustrade of the window curtain a song white, but when going to claim, noted that the convent down the embankment a gentleman in stride, heading right to the target point of your looks.
He was not young, nor old, but middle- age.
Despite the darkness, all that I could see Nemesia to the short distance to found, which did not exceed thirty feet.
His stance, his rhythmic movements and firm could not be mistaken for a youngster or old.
He went, however, with apparent caution to the point where you could see the edge of the curtain white, held a brief conversation with the person who was hidden behind the folds, and then continued to stride away from the high walls of the convent, around the Punta.
Nemesia he soon lost sight of in the dark, but he had no doubt that a carriage awaited him in the middle of the block, because he heard distinctly the noise of wheels on the stones of the street, running in the opposite direction to that in which it was, and favorable that was the unknown.
New subject of curiosity and confusion. - Ah!
Nemesia said. - Come in, it said, turning to the door and remove the toe with the average bullet insurance.
No request was made for the girl.
He seemed serious and upsetting the grandmother and granddaughter sitting in a corner, with the dress loose, disheveled, her head bent over his chest, arms outstretched and fingers crossed in her lap, was very picture of gloom and despair. - Come, my child.
Come in and sit down, do me the favor of sitting, added noting that the girl was still standing, as bewildered and confused. - It's late and I'm in a hurry, "replied mechanically dropping it in the leather chair front of the niche in which they worshiped the image of the Dolorosa.
Chepilla would repeat the request, but saw that the newcomer would sit without further delay she stood between her and her granddaughter. - Said he added Nemesia a little while, it's late and went quickly.
It turns out that his wife is Clarita very conservative, and then wanted to help her close the skirt of a garment that is doing little girl for Christmas Eve. [32] José Dolores must be waiting for me.
The workshop came long before me, because I had to play in the salve of the Holy Guardian Angel.
Indeed There have been many people in the shaft this afternoon in the tailoring, all to find clothes for a dance at the Philharmonic, and for the Christmas.
