Opium develops more particularly the nervous system activity life of relation, while the sulfur stimulates the action of the blood circulatory system and venous.
The direct action of sulfur on this system is excitants, but in the Dyscrasic, the excitement is fixed at some body whose testura is impaired, or at least more particularly affected, and fatigue that develops in the body darkens from time to time by the excitement local tends to be generalized, resulting in recrudescence, or fluxionarios febrile movements, neuralgias intermittently.
Sulphur corresponds by its elected and irritative action on the blood capillary system and venous, the herpetic skin, mucous, lymph and parenchyma, and this indication is found even better: 1. º by alternative action inside out, or the exterior to interior, ie the skin to the mucous membranes and other organs and vice-versa, 2. º by their direct influence on bodies provided blood capillaries, or what is, in all organs, excepting bone and fibrous tissue, on which, in effect, its action is zero or very bit steep, 3. º cutaneous manifestations pose a severe and even diathesis chronic herpetic analogous to their vesicles, their seeds, their itch, its rubicundeces and its various eruptions always accompanied by symptoms of irritation blood.
All this gives the character of sulfur medication for excellence of herpetic diathesis and Herpes, both in its various forms, such as its existence in potentia or latent, and transformations more remote, so that rarely is the disease whose treatment sulfur does not provide its powerful aid, and as a medicine that suits the symptoms of these diseases because antiherpes considered.
To present the picture of the core symptoms of sulfur, it would need to reproduce that characterize a host of chronic diseases are therefore numerous and represent asthmatic conditions, tisiformes, flegmorrágicas, hemotóicas, hemorrhagic mucosal nerve lymphatic, scrofulous, vein, organ damage, skin diseases, cachexia, fevers; but all have the character sobreescitacion irritable due to the arterial capillaries and veins, with the majority, if not all, undergoes recrudescence fever, and even when set in the venous or lymphatic system, no pain, redness, local erethism least.
Scrofulous infarctions not correspond as well to this medication, if not present these characters and even ulceration, in short, pure affections of bones, ligaments and soft tissues correspond to his sphere of action, provided there erethism chronic inflammation, and when blood pressure is stretched to the lymphatic capillaries or venous.
To avoid duplication, fill in the details relating to the physiological action sulfur therapeutic effects. § III .-- therapeutic effects. = A. = febrile illness .-- The curative effects of sulfur on febrile diseases analogous to their physiological effects.
These conditions depend forever because of an organic lesion, of a herpetic Fluxion, or a rash, and a deterioration of liquids or solids which occurs in the course of a fever essential.
In all these cases the fever is rather insidious intense.
Hectic fever or subacute Ereta this genre is generally sender ever intermittent always irregular in its early stages, the cold is distressing, the patient very sensitive to the impression of the exterior air, heat and dry acre.
Sweat usually occurs at the time that sleep produces lassitude, irritability and calm fiber.
This quiet and this sweat is however, generally partial and unevenly distributed at least.
Sweat is acidic and sour, pungent odor.
It also happens that both the chills and heat and sweat exist simultaneously but in different parts of body.
Nocturnal exacerbations are uncomfortable heat and alternatives cold, heat and partial sweats.
The heat is accompanied by rubicundeces, especially in provided the face and parts of many nerves, sympathetic or in relation to essential organs.
The palms and soles of the feet are, under this view, parties that the cold, heat and sweat expresses himself with more intensity, there is evidence that a deep and large lesion irritability.
Sulfur is involved in any subacute fever when the patient suffers or has had some phlogosis subacute neuralgia, a congestion, if only hemorrhoids, a rash, provided that such accidents occur frequently in one form or another, or changing site, according to the seasons and the evolution of life activity in different organs, the major physiological periods of existence, such as when to crusts serpiginous, the adenitis ...
of children, happen dartros, ophthalmia ...
a elderly, and when even later, laryngitis, the hemicráneas ...
In short, if, for all ages, but in different seasons, appear fluxions, boils, epistaxis, neurosis, erysipelas ...
Any fever, even severe rash or not, that the eruptive period of decline or is stationary with a dryness erethism and annihilate the forces of sick calls the use of sulfur, which for safety may be alternated with aconite.
Given also sulfur in the course of a fever to excite the reaction or revive an eruption languishing and to prevent the body's insensitivity to the action of drugs most appropriate, which occurs especially in certain mucous or catarrhal fever subacute and those in which the nervous system has suffered a violent attack that keeps you immersed in fatigue, as in the nerve and some eruptive fevers, in these cases, therefore, Sulphur is suitable to moderate the violence of the eruption, especially smallpox, the suppuration period, in which case the available sulfur the body to the action of mercury.
It has also been used as a preservative of measles, and its symptoms may certainly contrarian this medication. = B = Diseases of the bronchi of the lungs and pleura .-- Sulphur is indicated in disorders of the lung and bronchus by many of its symptoms.
In the pneumonia course not very sharp, keeps an average sulfur between the bryony and phosphorus.
Corresponds also by its action, when hepatisation and serous exudation and even plastic have come to its peak and begin to lose the character of sharpness.
The indication of sulfur requires erethism, a trace of irritation that does not require blood phosphorus and which is insufficient to bryony.
Sulfur is much more useful when its action is aimed at cell and tissue to the capillary network of parenchymal organs and tissues of Este surface, and the more altered this action the more plastic and Scythian processus to the capillaries within the meaning of transformation organic tend to resorption of the exudation and to the desinfartacion tissues.
It is also very useful in pleurisy, which presents the chills at the time that the fever seems to park, and when the body begins to react on products of inflammation.
In general, all spills in the pleura, the peritoneum and other serous membranes, and fluids, and pseudo-membranous, calling for a moment the use the sulfur before acuity has disappeared, usually at the same time or before the sulfur lime. = C = Conditions flegmásicas, venous congestion .-- The special action of sulfur in hair sebaceous mucosa in a medication he is very useful and often indicated in subacute phlogosis mucous membrane irritation or erethism, these are, according to we have noted, the subacute or chronic bronchitis exacerbation, mucous phthisis, vesical catarrh ...
It is less effective in inflammations of the cellular tissue and organs parenchymal, when local irritability and hyperemia arterial blood are agglomerated capillaries and contiguous and continuous, which is excepted in the physiological state necessary for this that the inflammation extended engine life, while retaining, however, of acuity and irritability.
Sulfur, in order, you agree to all febrile affection and character flegmásica ERETES already have a slow, or does not lead to an eruption frankly, to a Fluxion, or because when the affection comes the period of suppuration of exudation or secretion, finish by induration or by flow of pus, serous or spills abundant mucus, while retaining always in these cases some local or general blood irritation.
and even the same menstruation excess or advance and also in the suppression of it by sluggish anemic or scrofulous; 5. º The cephalic congestion, pulmonale, abdominal, liver ...
When hemorrhoids pars are the Mandans, in blood or irritable people. = D = Cachexia .-- The herpetic diathesis plays in all directions on the sulfur and its or changes in their secondary or tertiary periods, and when it is clear, visible, external, shaped damning indicators or symptoms clearly.
The sulfur is sufficient by itself to cure a condition that sometimes develop in these circumstances with herpetic nature: for example, inflammation of the eye subirritativas whose parts all are affected by deep and lasting action.
Herein is the predominance their influence on the heart and blood vessels, it can dispel stasis and venous and lymphatic inertia, whenever the existence of serious organ damage is not contraindicated use and inspire well-founded fears that extends and serious.
We have said, but the importance of the subject deserves to repeat that changes in general very early in the course of drug treatment.
But back to our case, we indicate because the large number of chronic conditions, from cataracts to decay to dutifully fill the exposition of which require the use of sulfur and its elective, as the similarity of their effects with the ups.
More removed only the enumeration of the most cardinal and serve as type for the use of sulfur in others of the same gender. = E. = nervous and neuralgic affections .-- neuro, neuralgia and paralysis own recognized by sulfur causes herpetic dartrosa metastasis, an eruption aborted herpetic diathesis hereditary.
Whenever the background or existing symptoms lead the physician to make this specific diagnosis, it is necessary to administer the sulfur more drugs than particularly suitable: 1. º in chronic seizure disorders, Pertussis in the Rebel, the hysteria and access epileptiform 2. º in hypochondriasis, in various philosophical and religious mania in the mental alienation, in consequence of false crisis of nerve fevers, or of the excesses in the study, 3. º in chronic gout on all irregular, with violent local erethism, redness and tension, or sluggish deep sobreescitacion general or cerebral nerve 4. º rheumatic pains in the head, teeth, members, in rheumatic diseases of the joints of the viscera and membranes serous, 5. º in asthma and all asthmatic affection 6. º in neuro-asthenic and some cases of muscular atrophy, especially in children.
Science now recognizes and clinic has long since have established the relations of all the affections of this genre with rash and mucous herpes or secondary. = F. = Skin conditions .-- If the rash is divided into three classes according chronic Part of the integument that affect, or is the epidermis, the dermis and mucosal Malpighian body, sulfur is indicated in all, it meets in its effects on the skin system of all medications, and consist of softening, exfoliation or loss of substance and the induration, granulation, hypertrophy, new formation.
Many drugs are not But his best auxiliaries, not only to prepare and tissue injuries to his action, but also to complete or more specialized.
In the ordinary divisions of skin conditions, corresponds to sulfur forms vesicular and papular, rashes, or scabies psoric, miliary or crusts in red spots, liver and furfuraceous, when these conditions are unpleasant itching, heat after scratching.
This itching burning, if only, more violent night and in bed that day, also calls for sulfur.
Among the peculiarities of the effects of sulfur stand some that make it useful: in miliary and urticaria, affecting completely to a member with itching and abrasions; in herpetic crusts on an inflammatory base, itching and hot, or that open easily, in dry eruptions of the head and scalp, in the cradle cap Creeping, epidermal abrasions on the palms of the hands in pityriasis alopecia; in furfuraceous with herpes blisters on the nipple cracks after Arnica, whether or not erythematous halo, and which also plays the graphite in the intertrigo, in inflamed chilblains in the redness of the nose and other cutaneous blood stasis Itching and heat in the ulcers with serous bloody pus, in the toes or cloth, obstruction of sebaceous follicles in accumulating a material whose swelling caseiforme Acne occurs graphite itself, in cases of scabies transformed with large or long-standing pruritus, when the vesicles appear everywhere except in the hands, which are stations and given functional regions, which often ulcerate, crust over and are compounded by sanious boils; in whitlow and other inflammations also erysipelatous that play often and alternate with styes, irritation in the larynx, sore rheumatic.
Here, then, the drug that has been regarded as a panacea and a balm: nswers are indications, that feeling we have reduced to as short extent.
Aliéntanos the idea of ??having assisted the reader to determine their elective and their properties and have put in a position to take advantage of its pathogenesis and analysis of its effects clinical. = Dose .=-- The observations we made on the dose and now have an explanation particular.
In general there are enough reasons to choose in preference satisfactory by small or large.
It is therefore logical and natural to have recourse to both doses weaker as the drug is most appropriate, since the reaction tends to excite curative in the sense of morbid synergies.
The stronger doses should be reserved for Where indications are less precise, but rather based on a set of phenomena Dyscrasic or rational, that as a synthetic expression of the morbid state, does not exactly match special symptoms to able to characterize the diagnosis of disease and medicine.
The action, therefore, sulfur, characterized in the phenomena erethism its field force, would determine especially if organic lesion coexists internal increased irritability insidious, deadly for the same, whether in these circumstances not be administered at doses weaker.
There is the same danger in the states diathesis without internal organic lesion, and only agreed to fund the herpetic affection, whether intended to stimulate the blood system, dissipate the inertia and awaken some manifestation herpetic.
The first three crushing and sulfur dye, made according to the precepts of the Hahnemannian pharmacopoeia are sufficient dose for many conditions terns, such as dartros, ulcers, chronic erythematous irritation, and in the same scabies, were administered 2 or 3 decigrammes the first to the third crushing, three or four doses a day, or else from 2 to 20 drops of tincture of fractions in the same way.
Exterior applications, even scabies should not ever go to these amounts, and ointment to two parts of the dye or the first shredding for fifteen butter and lotions with two parts the stain for ten or fifteen of pure water.
These lotions repeated three or four times day, are perhaps the best way to treat scabies, giving the interior dose as those was just appointed, and continuing treatment for a dozen days.
We are aware that You can delete a mangy eruption in less time, but the EXPERIENCE proves that these deletions are not ordinarily true healing.
The internal organic disease of the lungs, liver, ..., with hectic fever, require dose but weak enough blood to the thirty-some attenuation, and is not usually what better and have not been repeated many days and even weeks at times, because the action Sulfur is also quite extended in these cases to allow any other drug insert during the time of his action.
The body sometimes dangerously excites the strong influence of dose, and injuries such as lung, for example, may be aggravated insidiously, whereas weak calms irritability and fever, acting favorably altered tissue.
The mean dose of the sixth to the thirtieth attenuation are preferable in cases where less irritability, and skin diseases, injuries terns, scrofula, etc..
Even insisting on this issue, we will say no more required medication adapt well their gender doses of illness, his strength and temperament of the patient: all dosage scale degrees are required for sulfur, and all have their chance.
Acidum sulphuris (sulfuric acid). § I. - History.
Sulfuric acid is a drug after having been used extensively in the past, as evidenced by the work and Delens Merat [25] and the observations of Dipper, Sydenham, Haller, etc., is now relegated to the mineral lemonade advocated against lead colic.
Addition exterior use of it was done in the treatment of atonic ulcers of the dartros; apart from its application in gargles and injections in the thrush and mouth ulcers, certain angina, aphthous irritation of the vulva and vagina, was prescribed in the form of elixir, Rabel water, etc., against a large number of acute and chronic illnesses such as fevers inflammatory, intermittent rashes, malignant, putrid in different periods and be given, In short, the nickname of antiseptic.
He also used against pneumonia, phthisis, the colliquative sweats, passive hemorrhages, scurvy, purpura hemorrhagic dropsy, delirium drunks tremens, epilepsy, chorea, and other mucus diarrhea, rheumatism, arthritis, syphilis, scrofula ...
This was very likely to sulfuric acid, and distrust observers more rigid or more illustrations contributed a lot to the abandonment of a drug that should find many times ineffective.
The counter-stimulated that they want the sulfuric acid is a hipostenizante vascular forget their special symptoms, and admit that the disease manifested in the effective hipostenizante in nature, from epilepsy to scurvy, without distinguishing stages of the disease.
It's funny to see that suddenly are obtained by the high dose, when there is tolerance medicinal sedative effects really é hipostenizantes without the body pass, at least substantially, by the primary excitation belongs to the almost universality of the drugs, these effects also fit, but by chance and specialties of their action, to a number of diseases which are undoubtedly hiposténico character, ie own sulfuric acid.
