- I do not know if I have that, but I have natural mouth and stomach, and I know that God has placed me in the world to live, not to let me starve.
you have is bill ...
And looking at things as they should look, I say that God has not only raised the land and sea, but his work are verily Grocery stores, the Bank of Spain, the houses where we live and say, the vegetable stands ...
Everything belongs to God. - And the coin, the coin indecent, whose is it? - Plaintive accent asked Mrs. -.
Answer me. - Also is from God, because God made gold and silver ...
Oh, what job I get these legs!
Instead of taking them to me, I have to pull them. (Rising with great effort.) As I would walk with crutches.
VII Already in his early sixties, the unhappy for so many reasons Zapata Francisca Juarez, known in the years that their deplorable decline by Dona Paca, a dry, laconic and plebeian familiarity.
Behold how the glories and Highnesses stop this world, and what was pending touring the said lady, rolling to deep poverty, since dogs tied sausage, for the years 59 and 60, until the alms are living unconsciously, between agony, pain and shame thousand.
Countless examples of these falls offer us large populations, more than any that of Madrid, where there is little habits of order, but all the examples above the Dona Francisca Juarez, sad toy destination.
Looks good these things and the rise and fall of people in social life, it is great foolish to take the target to blame for what is exclusive work of the characters themselves and temperaments, and good example is Dona Paca, who in his own self from birth carrying the disruption of all things material.
Born in Ronda, his eyes became accustomed from childhood to the dizzy depressions, and when she had nightmares, dreaming she fell to the profound depth of the crack is called Tajo.
Those born in Ronda head must have very strong and not suffer from dizziness or such thing, made to look frightful abyss.
But Dona Paca could not stand firm on the heights, instinctively tumble, and his head was not good at it or the government of life, that is security of view in the moral order.
Paquita Vertigo Juárez was a chronic condition since she was married very young, with D.
Antonio Maria Zapata, who was twice her age, intendant of the army, excellent person, comfortable position for his home as the bride, who also owned much real estate account.
Zapata served in the Army of Africa, a division of Echagüe, and after Wad-Ras became the Address field.
Zapata ordenadísimo man was, but so he dominated his wife, who even made him lose his eminent qualities, and how well knew how to manage the flows of the army, saw his men lost, forgotten art conservation.
Paquita did not set rates in elegant dress, or the luxury of table or continuous shaking dances and meetings, or the wasteful whims.
But those qualities were not effective enough to prevent the defect promote sour issues between love and servant, and one of these, Benin was fired.
The kids threw very least, and wept for his gracious Nina and soboncita.
For the three months came to visit at home.
He could not forget the lady or the kids.
These were his love, and the house, all her material, and attracted the fond.
Paquita Juárez also was especially pleased to chat with her, because something (did not know what) existed between the linking two secretly, something common in the extraordinary diversity of its characters.
the Benina was not comfortable in the house where he then served.
In short, we already have it again in the domesticity of Dona Francisca, and so happy her, and met the lady and the little wild with joy.
Came at that time increased difficulties and family drowning in the administrative order: debts voracious teeth gnawed to the heritage of the house were lost valuable properties, from not knowing How, infamous arts of usury, in the hands of lenders.
As a precious cargo that throws the boat into the sea on the plight of the wreck, out of the house the best furniture, paintings, carpets delicious: the jewels had come out already ...
But however much you lightened the ship, the family still in danger of capsizing and plunging into the black social chasms.
For more misery, in that fateful period from 70 to 80, the two children had very serious diseases: typhoid one, eclampsia and epilepsy other.
Benina assisted them with such care so loving and request that they believe could be booted from the claws of death.
For the love of Benin, rather than his mother's, were open to taking medications, to shut up and stay very still, sweating reluctantly, and not to eat ahead of time: all of which did not stop between mistress and maid arise issues and disagreements, which brought a second farewell.
In a fit of anger or esteem, Benina shot out, swearing and perjury would never set foot in that house, and that the shaking from your shoes to not be stuck in their dust mats ...
For what is carpet, and there were none.
In effect before year apareciose Benina at home.
Entered, her face bathed in tears, saying: "I do not know what is the lady, I do not know what is this house, and these children, and these walls, and everything here is: I do not know more but I am not in anything.
At home I'm rich, with good masters that no actual repair of two more or less, six hard salary ...
Well I am, ma'am, and spent the night and the day remembering this family and wondering whether or not it will be fine.
They see me sigh, and think that I have kids.
I I have no one in the world rather than the lady and her children are my children, for as such I want ...».
Benina again serving Dona Francisca Juarez as a maid only and However, because the family had given a tremendous downturn in that year, being so conspicuous signs of ruin, the maid could not see them without feeling deep sorrow.
Compelling moment came to change the living room with a more modest and inexpensive.
Dona Francisca, attached to routines and no determination at all, hesitated.
As you see, had the vice of the discount, which in some ways, on the other hand, was under savings.
His life became a continuous quest: the anxieties of a week, engendered the following week: Rare were the days of relative rest.
To mitigate the sad hours, drew strength from weakness, cheering with affected phantasmagoria the moments of the night, when creditors were free of annoying and vexatious claims.
It was necessary to make new moves, looking for cheapness, and del Olmo spent the Elder, and Elder to Almond.
This fate of the names of trees in the streets where they lived, looked like birds flying from branch to branch, scattered hunters' guns or stones from the boys.
In one of the tremendous crisis of that time, had Benina to go back to the bottom of his chest, where the cat hid or pawnshop, a product of its rebates and armholes.
Unable to tell his wife the truth, came to the story that a cousin, the Rosa, trading in local honey, had given a tough in order to keep them. "Give me, give me everything you have, Benin, and God grant you glory eternal, and I will pay you back double when cousins ??Round of pejugar pay me what ...
is a matter of days ...
Discounted his own charity, and sisaba in alms.
VIII So many misfortunes, seem a lie, they were only the preamble of misfortune big, scary, unhappy that the lineage of the Juarez and Zapata had to fall, the mouth of the abyss into which dipped we find him to tell his story.
From living on Elm Street, Doña Francisca was abandoned by the society that helped give his fortune to the wind, and on the streets of Elder Almond disappeared and the few friends who remained.
By then the people of neighbors, shopkeepers and people disappointed that it had started to call it sorry Doña Paca, and there was no way to designate another name.
Gentezuelas inconsiderate and used to add crude to a mote infamous household name: Doña Paca's tricky, Marquise of fib.
