A spy subjected to military justice was accused of having worked in the supply of German submarines. - How about that, Captain? ...
Ulysses hesitated, watching the ocean serious face framed by a gray beard.
This man inspired confidence.
Could respond negatively to such questions, it would be difficult German prove his allegations, but chose to tell the truth, with the simplicity of that no attempt to disguise his guilt, describing as it had been awkward blind passion, dragged by the artifices of an adventurous love. - Women! ...
However, the offense was important Ferragut.
Had helped the implementation of attack submarine in the Mediterranean ...
But when the Spanish captain had been told how it one of the first victims, how his son had died in the torpedoing of the Californian, the judge seemed unmoved, looking with eyes less severe.
Then recounted his meeting with the spy in the port of Marseilles. - I have sworn - he finally said - to dedicate my ship and my life to cause all the damage they can to the murderers of my son ...
I claim this man for revenge.
I recognize that my love Blindness dragged me to a crime I will never forget.
I'm fairly punished with the death of my son ...
The head was in deep thought with his head in one hand and his elbow on the table.
Ferragut knew military justice, prompt, intuitive, passionate, attentive to feelings just have value in other courts, judging by the movements of consciousness rather than the letter of the law, and capable of shooting a man with the same promptness that used to release him.
When the judge's eyes turned to look at him, had a warm light.
But rather sorry he had suffered the loss of his son.
In addition, to him they owed the discovery and arrest of an important spy. - Hand, Captain - finally said, as he held out his right hand -.
Everything we've talked lies between the two: it's like a confession.
I shall take it to the council of war ...
And Ferragut saw no more troubled by the issue of Marseille.
Maybe you watched quietly and not lost sight until fully convinced of his innocence.
But this surveillance sensed he never felt rushed nor discomfort.
In the third journey to Salonika, the captain saw him once from afar, greeting him with grave smile.
And knew no more of the spy.
In return, the Mare Nostrum in Barcelona anchored to charge for the Serbian army cloth and other industrial goods needed by the troops of the East.
This trip did not Ferragut by the profit motive.
Needed to see a tape, feeling in his soul sprouting the past.
The image of the wife came in his memory alive and attractive, as in the early days of their marriage.
But remorse is made her look idealized by distance, with all its qualities as a woman sweet and modest, and the continuing memory was taking the form of an amorous desire.
I wanted to restore the cordial relations of the past, be forgiven all the past; she did not look at him with hatred, believing responsible for the death of his son.
In fact it was the only woman who had loved him sincerely, as she could love, soft landing and exaggerations of passion, the tranquility of a partner.
The other did not exist.
Were a troop of shades that hardly marked in his memory as colorblind spectra of visible contour, but without color.
I wanted to meet her restore some of the damage he had done! ...
The only new arrival of the captain to the house of monastic quiet was that Don Pedro abstained from your visit.
Tape welcomed her husband with a pale smile.
This smile could be glimpsed in the work of time.
I kept thinking of his son at all hours, but with a resignation that dried her tears and allowed him to continue the slow mechanism of its existence.
Also wanted to erase their bad words, inspired by the pain: the memory of that scene of rebellion that had raised as an angry prosecution against the father.
And Ferragut, for a few days, thought live the same as years ago when he had not yet bought the mare nostrum, and planning to stay ground forever.
Tape attending him and obeyed as it should a Christian wife.
His words and actions reveal a desire to forget, be nice.
But something was missing that had made sweet the past.
Ulysses, impetuous man, unable to sanity next to a woman, won in the evening, the exercise of their rights.
A sense of sadness and shame was the forced end of his touch.
His wife came out of them as of an ordeal: resigned because his duty required it, but with a wave of revulsion bad concealed.
The warmth of his youth could not be resurrected.
He returned to wait with impatience for the time away from Barcelona.
In fact, the house and was not his.
As much as the wife would strive always stand between both the irremediable past.
His fate was to live on a ship, spend the rest of his days on the waves, as Damn Captain Dutch legend, until came to redeem a pale virgin shrouded in black veils: death.
As the vapor leaving office walked around town, visiting her cousins ??manufacturers or remain as an unemployed, in the cafes.
Tried his current human Las Ramblas, where the children were confused and picturesque country and disparate with contributions by war.
Ferragut first thing he noticed was the visible decline of German refugees.
Months earlier had found everywhere, filling the hotels, seizing the cafes in the streets flaunting their green hats and open-necked shirts, they were to be recognized immediately.
The Germans, with colorful costumes and outrageous, is to be kissed, shouted and screamed.
The Germanic language, Catalan and confused with Castilian, seemed to belong to the country.
In the mountain roads and rows were guys went bare-chested, bare-headed, stick in hand and a backpack alpine to the back, entertain your leisure with pleasure trips were perhaps at the same time of foresight study.
Were Germans in America, especially Brazil, Argentina and Chile, which had sought to return to his country in the first moments war, becoming isolated in Barcelona, ??unable to continue his journey, for fear of cruises French and English who were guarding the Mediterranean.
At first no one had wanted to worry about installation in this strange land.
All thronged to the view of the sea, hoping to be the first to embark soon was opened for them the way of navigation.
The war was going to be very short, very short!
Germanic families enriched by trade had stayed in hotels.
The poor people working in the New World as agriculturists or shop clerks are quartered in a slaughterhouse on the outskirts.
Some who were musicians had acquired old instruments and were wandering street musicians, begging alms with roars from town to town.
But the months passed, the war dragged on, and no one could descry his term.
Each was a growing number of those taking up arms against imperialism medieval Berlin.
And the German refugees, finally convinced that the wait would be long, were scattered the interior of the country, seeking a wider and cheaper there.
Those who lived luxury hotels were about to settle in "villas" and the surrounding houses, the poor, tired Ranch slaughterhouse, were attached to work on public works from the inside.
There were still many in Barcelona, ??meeting in some breweries to read newspapers from their homeland and speak darkly of the work of war.
Ferragut recognized them immediately to find them on the Rambla.
Merchants were established long years in the country, which boasted of Catalans with the ease of adaptation liar of his race.
Others came from America and were linked with Barcelona by Freemasonry trade and patriotic interest.
But they were all Germans, and that was enough for the captain immediately remembered her son, imagining bloody revenge.
Wanted sometimes have on your arm the blind forces of nature to remove at one stroke to these enemies.
It bothered her to see them installed on their land, having to pass them daily, without protest and without aggression, respecting them because the law demanded it.
Liked in the mornings to run on the Rambla to the positions of the flower.
Could walk between two walls that kept fresh flowers still in their petals the morning dew.
Each iron table was a pyramid with all the tints of the iris and all the fragrances can develop the land.
The ancient trees of the Rambla is covered with leaves, and its fronds Thousands of birds were screaming infant with the tenacity of the cicadas deafening, chasing trunk in the trunk, dropping on the crowd that ran below the almost forgotten fluid from his loose bowels.
The captain, looking at the ladies with a blanket that came in search of a bunch, I fancied the scent of her flesh fresh from morning sleep and refreshed by this garden setting.
In Ferragut, the desire of women predominated over all emotions.
No situation, by distressing it was, left him insensitive to the attractive female.
One morning, moving slowly through the crowd, he noticed that he was a woman.
Several sometimes cut him off smiling, looking for a pretext to start a conversation.
It was a female in her forties, prominent chest and legs loose, a Cook with the basket on his arm, like many others who passed through the Rambla de las Flores to join a branch to the daily grocery shopping.
Realizing that the ocean was not moved with their smiles and looks of your eyes clear, stood before him, speaking in Catalan. - Is it you, and forgive, a sea captain who is called Mr.
The cook, convinced that he was, went on with smiling mystery.
A very beautiful lady wanted to see him ...
And he gave the signs of a "tower" located at the foot of Tibidabo, on a newly built neighborhood.
Could make your visit to the three p.m.. - Come, sir - he added with a look of sweet promise -.
All he could glimpse in his evasiveness was that the person who sent it had spread to see the captain.
His cunning was used to evade persecution, and without Ferragut could be account of how his death was, slipped between the groups near the Plaza Catalunya. "Do not go," was the first thing that Odysseus said to be alone.
I knew what it meant to this invitation.
He recalled a number of ancient and unspeakable friends I had in Barcelona: women who had met at other times, including two trips without any passion for his eager curiosity hobo news.
Perhaps one of them I had seen on the Rambla, sent to this intermediate to resume old relationships.
The captain should enjoy a reputation for rich, now everyone would comment on the formidable business done by the owners of ships. "Do not go," he again said with energy.
Considered an unnecessary inconvenience to go to this interview mercenary to find the smile of a familiar face and forgotten.
But the insistence of memory and the same tenacity with which he repeated his pledge not to go his appointment began to be suspected Ferragut could well be that it was to her.
I did not know what to do during the afternoon.
Anyway, had recourse to retire after a brief conversation about the past ...
His curiosity was aroused by the mystery.
And at three in the later took a tram, which led to the new neighborhood is to walk Tibidabo.
The merchant class had covered these areas with an architectural flowering daughter legitimate fantasy.
Shopkeepers and manufacturers wanted a house of pleasure - called "tower" traditionally - to rest on Sundays and at the same time flaunt their prosperity.
The most patriotic inspiration to be trusted certain architects who had invented a Catalan art, with warheads, battlements and crowns of count.
These medieval crowns, which were repeated up to the tops of the lamps, was the eternal subject of an industrial city decorative little given to dreams and harsh for profit.
Ferragut walked down an empty street between two rows of fresh trees transplant, began to give his first lug.
I looked at the facade of the "towers" made of blocks cement imitating the old stone forts, or with tiles depicting landscapes dreamy, silly flowers, blue nymphs.
Just wanted to see the house outside.
Maybe this will help you discover who the woman.
But on arriving at the "tower" whose number stored in his memory and stop a few seconds before derrick its feudal architecture, which was present a similar interior to the halls of the breweries, saw that the door opened, she appeared in the same woman who had spoken in the Rambla de las Flores. - Between you, captain.
And the captain could not resist the mischievous eyes and smile terceril of the cook.
It was seen in a sort of similar to the front hall, with alabaster imitation Gothic fireplace oak, large porcelain jars, pipes, rods and size of old weapons decorating walls.
Several pictures of modern paintings playing with these alternating Munich ornaments.
Opposite the fireplace, William II sported one of the innumerable uniform among rutilancias splendid golden frame.
The house seemed deserted.
Gone was the heavy introducer with the lightness of an immaterial being, and swallowed the wall.
The ocean began to feel uneasy in this loneliness that seemed hostile, looking staring at the portrait of the Kaiser ...
The first thing he saw was a window, wider than tall, with stained glass.
A Valkyrie it galloped, his spear held high and her hair floating on a black horse expelling fire from their nostrils.
A diffuse light discerned glazed wall tapestries and Deep floral couch cushions.
A woman emerged from the sunken fluffiness of the bed, jumping with arms Ferragut His drive was extended so violent that he hits the captain's chest.
Certainly did not know what mysterious force dictated his gesture.
It was perhaps the voice of the good tips, speaking in his brain at critical moments and now he had lost his sanity ...
Instantly saw the sea, a ship that exploded and shattered his son. - Ah ...
Strong arm raised with clenched fist as a club.
The voice of caution was giving orders: "Hard! ...
None of punches.
This female is a gun. "And as if hit the enemy was a man, without hesitation, without mercy, focusing on the fist all his soul.
His hatred and the memory of Germany's aggressive media made him start a second blow, fearing an attack from it, trying to avert it before they undertake ...
But his arm was raised. - Ah ...
The woman had thrown a child moaning, swaying, turning on his feet, arms Throughout the body, without any attempt at defense ...
It was from one side to another, as well as if you were drunk.
His knees buckled and fell with the softness of a package of clothes, colliding head first with the drive arm of a place of oak, going after, rebound, to rest on the cushions of the couch.
The rest of the body was like a rag on the carpet.
There was a long silence, interrupted from time to time by groans of pain.
Something black forming snaking tendrils of silk cushion
