The old man glanced around the group.
Then his face changed gradually. - It's true - he said after a moment's reflection - is really a kind of quadruped something has animal can not be denied.
And frowned, as in painful meditation on the ignorance and stupidity of the unpopular Melin. - Makes a very sad time, right? - Said, engulfed by the current general feeling .-- Poor The workers will spend little money and runs this season ...
There was a movement among the attendees by announcing this, but not clearly transpired whether it was of satisfaction or disgust. - Yes - continued the old man in the gloomy tone for the last time involuntarily take - this is ...
I got the idea, do you understand?
that maybe would like to come to my house and spend one Christmas Eve.
The old man hesitated.
All Bar Samson knew that marital experiences had not been happy for him.
His first wife, a delicate and beautiful young woman, had suffered the most lively and jealous suspicions her husband, until one day he invited to his house to all the Bar for his infidelity is fully tested.
But the arrival of the departure, found the shy, innocent creature quietly engaged in home duties, and had to withdraw corridos and embarrassed.
The delicate sensitive not easily recovered from the shock of this extraordinary outrage.
He struggled to regain the composure to give vent to his lover, a closet that was hiding and escape with him.
To comfort the husband was left abandoned a three- spring.
The current consort of the old man had been his cook, stout woman, brutal character.
Before I could answer, John Dimas explained in a few words that the house was old, and, invoking the divine power, if he were at home convidaría whom he pleased, even when doing so would endanger their salvation.
All this said with a dry and vigor lost in this translation required. - Naturally ...
this is - "the old man also pursing his brow .-- No nothing special.
It's my house, I myself have raised all their logs.
No need to fear it.
Maybe cry a little, as women do, but will be good.
The old trusted, to himself, in the exaltation of liquor and the power of a brave example to hold in this situation.
Until then, Federico Bullen, Oracle and head of Bar Samson, not spoken.
But took his pipe from his lips and burst: - Old, and how your child is Juanito?
I figured something was sick the last time I saw him on the road throwing stones at the Chinese, and that seemed disinterested greatly.
Visibly affected, not only by this pathetic picture of Johnny's deprivation, but also so circumspect and delicate, the father rushed to assure him that Johnny was better and perhaps a little joke he would improve somewhat.
Frederick then got up and desperezose saying - I'm ready.
And with a leap and a yelp characteristic precediolos, leaving outside.
Passing the home grabbed a lighted stick, an action that others repeated heading, following close, rubbing, and before that Daniel, the puzzled owner the drugstore, knew the intention of his guests, the room was completely empty.
The night was darker than pitch.
The makeshift torches were extinguished to first gust of wind and only the red coals ranging in darkness as fireworks dimly lighted fools the narrow path.
This led them by the above Pine Glen, whose entrance was hidden in the cost of a wide but low primitive hut with a roof made of reeds and pine bark.
It was the home while the old entrance of the mine where he worked when he did.
Once there, the support, they stopped a delicate time for deference to the host, which came from the rear of breath. - Maybe you did well to wait a second here outside while I go and see if everything is current - the old man said with an indifference that was far from his mind.
The indication was well accepted, the door opened and closed after the host, and partners, supporting their backs against the wall, sheltering under the eaves, waited with an attentive ear.
For some moments there was no sound but the dripping of water from the eaves and branches fighting against the wind that shook, crackling over their heads.
The guests They began to fidget and whisper instructions and suspicions that passed word of mouth. - I suspect that to start me and my neck has broken. - We will put in the tunnel and there you will sandwich, for sure. - We have in the ground and will sit on top. - Probably something is boiling echárnoslo; apartémonos the door for what might be.
But at this point the latch creaked, the door slowly opened, and a voice said: - Come take cover from the rain.
The voice was not the old one or that of his wife.
It was a childish voice, weak ring whose hoarse unnatural that broke, which only can give vagrancy and alcohol abuse, premature.
Appeared before them the figure of a child, whose face might have been nice, even distinguished not darken the inside of the evils and not having learned his seal printed on dirt and neglect.
Her little body was wrapped in a blanket, and just knew that getting out of bed. - Enter - repeated - and not make noise.
The old man is there talking to mom - indicating continued an adjacent room that seemed to be a kitchen, from which the old man's voice came in Ringtone for clemency. - Let go - said the child and addressing Federico grumbling that he had grabbed Bullen wrapped in the blanket and pretended to want to take the fireplace. - Let me, you damned old fool!
Juanito immediately proceeded in with gravity into a closet and pulled out several objects placed on the table slowly. - There you have brandy and biscuits, smoked herring and cheese (and on their way to the table gave a bite to the latter).
And sugar. (He pulled out with a few dirty hand.) There also dried apples in the cupboard, but I do not collide.
Now it without fear: I ignore the old woman finally said and done, there is nothing I Well, then!
And he retreated to the doorway of a small room, scarcely larger than a closet, separate main room by a partition and had a small bed in his small dark room.
After a momentary pause, he said from the darkness: - And now my heart hurts.
Sucediose awkward silence.
Ora here and under there now, but is stronger from here to here.
It was small, weak and skinny, but perhaps because small weak and emaciated yielded to pressure and further approaching the chair to the bed, leaned over her head, surprising him sleep at this attitude.
At six we wait at the ford.
And sparkled the stones, the gravel crunched loudly Frederick road and plunged into darkness. * * * * * * * Oh, Muse!
The lights of a few taverns and gambling houses were still bright, but avoid the temptation stopped before several closed shops, and therefore repeatedly calling after screaming, managed to rise from their beds and forcing owners to unlock the doors of their stores and to expose their wares to the importunate visitors
