As he stood before him, was enough to raise their hands to put them on his shoulders, starting the beginning of a hug.
His immobility repelled these appeals.
The story that had just report was not for him but a tissue of deceit. - All wrong! - Said dully -.
I had thought the same, but was afraid of the future uncertain. - I'm poor, I have little money to pay my trip ...
It was insinuating, seductive, moving his hands on his shoulders, pulling her neck with a passion that amounted to an embrace.
The woman, tenacious in their desires, got up quickly, regardless of the pain of the fall.
Ulysses was in the street, while in the small hall had just wobble, breaking then on the floor with loud grinding, various earthenware that had hooked and displaced the fugitive in his blind exit.
Sitting in the front of the outdoor feel, revived in his memory hazards Freya he had announced.
Explored the street with a hostile glance ... "No!" His desire was found with the enemies of the woman who spoke to vent the anger was against himself.
I was embarrassed and furious at his temporary weakness, which almost had resumed the old life.
In the succeeding days repeatedly agreed the band of refugees was due to the doctor.
When found in the Germanic-looking pedestrians streets, looked straight through the eyes of challenge.
Then went ahead, repented of his provocative, sure they were merchants of South America, apothecaries or employees of the Bank, undecided between returning to their homes across the ocean or wait Barcelona triumph of their Emperor always immediate.
Finally, the captain finally laugh at the recommendations of Freya. "Lying from you! ...
His face had one, pale ash.
When they were in the aft lounge, the second spoke softly, looking around him.
The previous night had dropped to the ground for the theater.
All literary tastes Toni and aesthetic emotions focused on the zarzuela.
Men of talent had not have invented anything better.
It was pulling out the hum that animated his long stays on the bridge.
In addition, there was the women's chorus, brilliantly dressed, with legs free; the sopranos abundant in meat and scantily clad, a parade of pink tights, voluptuous curves that cheered the imagination of the sailor, not to forget the duties of fidelity.
At one o'clock in the morning, when he returned to the vessel docks lonely, had tried assassinate him.
He thought he saw people who were hiding behind a pile of goods to hear his steps.
A bullet whistled through one ear. - And as I was unarmed, ran.
Fortunately, the ship was close, almost next to the bow.
I just had to take a few breaks to get me in on the steam iron ...
And no more shots.
Ferragut was silent.
He would not pretend disbelief or displayed reckless and contemptuous of danger when Toni continued talking. - Ojo, Ulises! ...
I have thought much about this event.
You may know where it comes from this: you treat many people.
The captain guessed he thought of the adventures of Naples and shameful that proposition kept a secret, relating all the night assault.
But neither his voice nor his eyes justified such suspicions, and Ferragut chose not take notice of what was happening. - Does anyone know what happened?
Toni shrugged. "No ..." He had gotten into the steam, soothing to the dog board, barking furiously.
The man had heard the shooting guard, imagining were from a bout of sailors.
In addition, he's only interested in what happens after Grilled linking the dock with the ship. - You have not given part to the authority? ...
The second was shocked to hear this question, with the pride of the Mediterranean, never remember the authority in times of danger and only trust your defense to the skill of your hand. "Have you had anything by an informer ?...» Intended to do what the men are men.
Woe to him who throw it on him, if not hurt him! ...
And winking one eye, showed his captain what he called "the tool." The pilot is repugnant to him guns, toys, crazy and noisy, problematic results.
He loved the blow in silence, the knife, extended his hand with an affection ancestral that seemed to evoke the blink of the axes of approach used by their ancestors.
With loving gentleness drew a knife from his waist English acquired at the time was Boats pattern: a bright sheet reproduced the faces that stared, pointed stiletto sharp and razor sharp.
If it sees them again, he would throw out of steam to say two words. - Do nothing - ordered Ferragut -.
All day he was worried by the news.
Walking through Barcelona, ??provocative eyes looked few passersby seemed to German.
He joined the onslaught of a character owner indignation is struck in your home.
Several times he took the right hand to the back of his pants, playing an extended package and metallic.
Expected the evening to perform a certain idea which had been established between the eyebrows like a nail painful.
The voice of good counsel protested, "Do not do crazy things, Ferragut, do not look for the enemy, not provoke.
I will make them see I am a Spanish ... " He knew the port bar mentioned by Freya.
Two of her crew had been given new reports.
His parishioners were poor Germans, who drank in abundance.
Someone paid for them, and on specific days to be allowed to invite patterns of fishing boats and port homeless.
When news of the war received favorable to Empires Germanic, redoubled the songs and the glass until midnight and the music box sour not rest a moment.
On the walls were portraits of William II and several his generals.
The bar owner, a German fat legs, square head, with hair hard brush and mustache hanging answered to the nickname of Hindenburg.
Marine smiled at the thought of the possibility of putting them under your desk Hindenburg ...
I wanted to see this place, where they often had sounded his name.
In the evening, his steps led him to the bar, with an irresistible urge to be joking of all the counsels of prudence.
The glass door resisted his nervous hand, perhaps because the latch driving too hard, and the captain ended up kicking open at its lower part, made of wood.
Glass almost flew the momentum of this coup, brutal.
Saw much smoke, pierced by three red stars electric lamps had just turned on, and men who had their backs or in front of him around several tables.
The Gramophone snuffle like an old toothless.
Hindenburg appeared behind the counter, bare-chested, with sleeves rolled up on his arms and legs bulky. - I am the Captain Ulysses Ferragut.
The voice that said it had a power similar to the magic words of oriental tales, left on hold the life of a whole city, being immobile people and objects in the attitude that surprised the powerful spell.
There was a stunned silence.
Those who were beginning to head back attracted by the noise the door did not continue its motion which were kept his eyes front fixed on him that went: eyes wide with surprise, as if they could not believe what they saw.
Hindenburg, who was cleaning a glass, was with his hands still, without removing the napkin from the crystal cavity.
Ferragut was to sit next to an empty table, his back against the wall.
A servant Only the establishment, came to find out what he wanted, Mr.
He was an Andalusian small and lively, that his wanderings had brought him to Barcelona.
Served with indifference to customers, without being interested in their words and hymns. "The did not get into politics." Accustomed to the facilities people happy and feisty, she guessed the man who comes to "build rage" and wanted to tame your smiling and obsequious attitude.
I knew at that greasy spoon appointed him frequently and were many who wanted to see him.
Could give them the message that Captain Ferragut was there, at his disposal. - So be it - said the Andalusian.
And he went to the counter, bringing a little while a bottle and a glass.
In vain Ulysses was set on occupying the adjacent mesas.
Some stood still, presenting the back, others had their eyes down and spoke softly, with a whisper of mystery.
Two or three of them crossed at last his eyes with the Captain.
In the pupils had a brightness of the rising anger.
But someone who had his back seemed to dominate with his orders in whispers, and he obeyed the order, lowering his eyes to follow an attitude inhibited.
Ulysses soon tired of this silence.
Beginning to find something ridiculous attitude of the tamer.
In the next table was a newspaper with pictures, and seized him, turning their leaves.
Was printed in German, but he pretended to read with great interest.
He had laid aside, freeing the hip on which rested the gun.
His hand feigning distraction, walked along to the opening of the pocket, ready to arm themselves in case attack.
Soon he was sorry for this position too confident.
Iban to fall on him, exploiting his reading.
But pride made him stand still, so that could not guess your concern.
Then he laughed in a defiant, as if reading in something that caused Germanic illustration their taunts.
He still did not seem so, and raised his eyes to look with curiosity aggressive portraits adorning the walls.
Then he could realize the great transformation that had just taken place in the bar.
There were only four Drunk, wet-eyed, who drank with relish, caring only for content its vessels.
Hindenburg, back to back a strong clientele, the counter reading a newspaper night.
Andalusia, sitting at the back, smiled at the captain. "What a guy !...» Held inside a land that had put to flight shouting drinkers and brutal that bothered him so much other afternoons.
Ulises consulted his watch: half past seven.
The night had closed.
Under the light beams passing electric trams and cars into the city.
Following the arcades of old buildings neighbors groups of workers marched port of maritime facilities.
Barcelona, ??dazzling glow, appealed to the crowd.
The dock, black and lonely, is peopled with dim little lights on top of the masts.
Ferragut hesitated between going to dinner at his home or at a restaurant on the Rambla.
Then suspected that some of the greasy spoon fugitives could be near him, ready to follow him.
Spread their looks in vain: he could not recognize anyone in the groups that were waiting for the tram reading newspapers or talking.
Suddenly experienced a desire to see Toni.
Uncle Caragol you improvise something to eat while on its second adventure of the bar.
In addition, it seemed a fitting end to his deed offer the enemy, if his followers, the favorable opportunity to attack the desert springs.
The demon of pride was blowing in his ears: "So you will see that no afraid. " And he went boldly into the harbor, passing over railroad tracks, outlining the stores long walls, getting through mountains of merchandise.
First found small groups went to the city, then couples, then single individuals, the final one: absolute solitude.
The reflectors traced in large roundels on purple ground.
Beyond lay the darkness, cut silhouettes of ebony, which sometimes were ships and other alleys bales, hills of coal.
The black water reflected the snakes red and green lights ships.
A prolonged transatlantic cargo operations in the glow of their reflectors electrical, standing on the gloom with the animation of a Venetian festival.
From time to time a man walking slowly entered the circle of a hearth, shining the barrel of his rifle.
Others were watching as the heaps of downloads.
Captain suddenly felt a notice from your instinct.
He stopped in the shade attached to a bunch of bales, and saw men advancing in a different direction, passing quickly along the edge of the red stain of a light bulb to avoid being under the rain light.
I was beyond recognition, and in spite of this, he was sure they were the enemies seen in the bar
