Allánense the British to admit that possible the emergence of a playwright who is worth more than Shakespeare, and we allanémonos to confess that it is possible the emergence of a superior novelist Cervantes.
In what we do not As Allan and I did not flatten, is that this novel has already appeared, and less to be Tolstoy, or Zola Bourget.
Germinal cheap demos contains more a lot more science than the ingenious gentleman, but even then can infer that Germinal be best novel.
You might as well, in view of modern developments, inference, not a basic treaty, but the most compendious book of agriculture is worth a thousand times the Georgics.
The Georgics may not teach but nonsense and errors, while studying Primer can understand any subject become more than average farmer.
It proposes the creation of breathtaking beauty that delights, snatches and elevates the soul, which is achieved with the Georgics, where the read is capable of understanding; but do not get with the card, which is available to the most stupid, that no one not understand, and reporting useful knowledge.
But what to achieve this end is not always better to write cards that poems or novels?
All that the wisest teach novel day you can encrypt anything in a couple of the more modest flat primer.
Their culture is like a capital is increasing every day, either by new profits as revenues that are not spent and accumulate.
If you liked it, I would defend to the contrary, with no little complacency, because the most divine and admirable art is in general and particularly in a word, is the inspired, spontaneous, as in some unconscious way, say what is on top of all individual consciousness in the collective mind in impersonal reason, the superior ingenuity of peoples and races and even the divinity, which reveals or believe that is revealed.
And although I do not deny the possibility and continuity of present and future revelations, I find more suited to the primitive ages of present age such cases, which can well be described as supernatural and divine.
It does not prevent the above that the technical side, the manufacturing industry is in the literary day later and more contained than in past centuries.
Hence, for each of novels that were written one or two hundred years ago, today are written hundreds or even thousands.
