Forgive me for having tricked you and try to be happy, best wishes, your best friend, -Luis." He traced the lines of this letter with a trembling hand.
Before finishing, some tears had welled up in his eyes.
XV Josefina is sleeping.
The noble Grandee easily gave away her shame with the author.
So she read the anonymous letter and recovered from the shock, her suspicions were to stop at the Count of Onis.
Nothing else pressed upon him the resemblance, which he now clearly noticed, between this man and the secluded girl.
Apart fromt that, or because his excessive pride blinded his eyes, or because Amalia had known that she had him deceived, he had never noticed more than a cold and ceremonious friendship between them that was nothing offensive.
But the dart had entered so deeply in his heart that he couldn't tear it out.
All the considerations that his desire suggested were not enough to destroy the great certainty that, without knowing how, had been cast abrutly in his brain.
Some details, which had gone unnoticed for him, suddenly acquired high relief, they rose like lit torches to guide him.
The first of all was, naturally, the sickness of his wife coninciding with the appearance of the girl.
He remembered the strange tenacity with which she opposed that any doctor come up to see her, then the indulgence, the exquisite cares that she lavished on the girl.
Also to his memory came some visits that his wife made once to the Grandee under the pretext of picking out some plants.
No circumstance remained, concerning the friendship of the Count and the discovery of the girl, that didn't stir and weigh on his mind.
The hard look of his sunken eyes rested insistently on Amalia whenever she entered into his room.
On different occasions, the girl was brought on any pretext and he looked at her for a long time, trying to decipher in the features of her appearance the enigma of her existence.
Amalia observed all of this, and read the mind of her husband as well as an open book. --When is Louis getting married?-- The Grandee asked him one day in an affectedly distracted tone. --They say that it will take some time.
He needs to fix some issue or the other before going to Madrid--he responded with the greatest tranquility. --Will he continue on the farm?-- Always.
He won't come more than occassionally on the evenings, according to what he told me one day when I saw him in the Barrosa store.
Pedro asked him, rivetting on him a penetrating gaze. --Definitely not.
Cristopher Matthew asked him.--By day no.
Luis only came so see his daughter.
Amalia didn't let him until the girl was somewhat recovered.
He came to dress her like before and he gave back the priveleges that she had.
The spell had been broken.
Because Luis loathed her: he was subjected to force .
