Is that the girl deserved it all: the light of the brazier discovered his face animated, his eyes lit rechispeantes, and showed the curly hair, undone by agitation of the walk, and floating in fancy threads on his forehead, shoulders and neck.
Baltasar and erased in American and fungi, were placed between the jostling crowd and perhaps he whispered to one hundred thousand blunders, but it was not for bagpipes CAFTA is that was not in the mood for compliments Amparo, being solely owned by the fervor political.
Of fixed-fixed the Madrid government already knew such time that cigarette marinedina performed a heroic unprecedented efforts to hasten the triumph of federal, and with such thoughts latíale Amparo his little heart and swelled the bosom agitated.
Amid the vulgarity and dullness of daily life and the monotony of work always identical to itself, such hazards revolutionary were poetry, novel, adventure, blue sky through which to fly with wings of gold.
The emphatic phrases of the articles, the redundant periods of speeches rang in his ears like the refrain of the waltz in the child dancer.
That arrival of individuals of the Assembly of the Union was to safeguard what would the Apostles for a people who hear about the Gospel and soon saw arrive on its shores to announce makers.
Amparo by certain thing was approaching when observed with a fact worthy of Memory: craved, without declaring itself, using the forces of self-denial and sacrifice that there are latent in the soul of the woman of the people.
Knocking on your door to high at night, say breathlessly that "here comes the police 'and that is hidden; hidden alleys accompany him to a safe hiding place, put him in a few hands dollars saved by dint of rolling cigarettes, receiving instead a bundle of proclamations to divide the next day, with the caveat that "if they are caught, can be counted soul in Purgatory"; distributed by stealth and zeal, and as a reward for so many hardships, risks similar win an expressive handshake, a look of gratitude for the outlawed ....
If heroism temperature is a matter of moral, Amparo, who was a hundred degrees, perhaps stop shooting for the cause without saying a peep, and who knows if time would not be included walking her side portrait of Mariana Pineda in the tables represent the martyrs of freedom ....
Happy or unfortunately, what you want, that's why no reñiremos, times were more comic than tragic, and the laudable efforts of Amparo not won another crown but martyrdom in the factory were prevented from reading newspapers, manifestos, proclamations and leaflets, and that she and a few others who spoke and sang live subversive songs related to the suspended Northern Union, as they say, employment and salary. -XVIII- Village Tribune The Red Circle check the rest, it is not spoken, but the banquet Marineda offers delegates of Cantrabria and Cantabrialta.
You do not have the Red Circle partners as opulent as the Casino Manufacturers and the Society of Friends, but sobral soul and detachment, as occasion required, bleed the pockets, pledged, if necessary, to the eyes and leave with color and present a table that does not embarrass you.
Call to confer with President of the Circle "person of good taste," never needed in the villages to conduct the formalities, came to the point where the performance of their duties, and gave such skill that may soon negotiate a loan of silver candlesticks, shopping table, fine china, damask tablecloths and fresh, whimsical toothpick and amazing cigar.
Which received the go-between rubbed his hands ensuring that the board chairman would royally ornamented. - Regia, no sir - said the president somewhat gloomy -.
He declined the organizer of the festival to discuss the adverb, and pleased to have found accessories, was to seek the main, or food.
Coping with joggers and coffee, managed to combine food, wine and ice cream as it seemed more orthodox and elegant; but he wanted his unhappiness at the last minute political enthusiasm throw it all away, prompting this federal bodegonero to send 'proof' of its wines and one baker to send half robust dozen pies, which fell at the banquet as barbarians in selected piece of classical Latin.
Purpose began food late, and still circulated two herbal soup and puree, when the waiters closed timber windows and lit the candles on the chandeliers and gas appliances.
Then saw himself out of the vagaries of twilight the table, the long sixty-covered table, with its bright silver, their bouquets of flowers symmetrically placed, tall bunches of sweet, his trembling jellies, where the light shimmered as in a lake.
The president handed Circle around a look of pride.
In truth the appearance of the banquet was magnificent.
Still prevailed in the book the first time: people ate in moderation and delicacy, bartenders and waiters walked quietly no heels, spoons produced slight music-over dishes, virginity Tablecloth happy eyes, and taste of the soup fog not totally banished the fragrant fumes of roses and carnations in the vases.
However, to serve the first entry neighbors began to talk table, and the growing buzz of conversation emboldened the waiters, who walked and more stout.
Head of the table the old white-bearded, and his noble theatrical figure completed the decoration.
To his right was the president of the Circle and left the speaker's dark face, which, according to Amparo, "threw terms" hard to understand.
Still other delegates order of respectability, alternating with members of the Board, the press, the party.
Was gradually heightening the noise and sparking talk of languages, where overflowing and abundance of the heart.
Which, thanks to venerable old age, could be called patriarch, smiling, approving, agreeing with everyone, while the grim and frowning delegate they are composed his best to play.
The third dish rasa bullet fired against property, capital and the middle class, and the president of the Circle, skipper and owner facility had to be piqued and shortly afterwards the patriarch himself was the angry, because I know not what phrases on the right of insurrection and the use of violent and coercive means.
None seemed to the lawful patriarch, in his opinion, love, peace, fraternity, were the best basis to establish the federal union, not only of Cantabria and Spain, but the world.
Each claimed their reasons, trying to look like the alien Chimera, the discussion was general involved in her journalists and delegates from the farthest ends the table, someone offered without being heard, people in low voice exclaimed in a pleading tone: "But hey, gentlemen ...
if you hear a word ...».
The core group it was spoken all, of his confused clamor only highlighted phrases, angry, determined in excel. "That's utopia, utopias fatal ....
No, I will convince you with the story in hand ....
Are you an error ....
A fact is no general law ....
Cantu is a reactionary ....
The baptism of blood ....
One of them leaned over the chair and whispered to him not I know what ...
The president stood up to the point and left the room, followed quickly reentering a group of women.
Penetrated gracefully, wearing a cotton gown and shawl clear Manila bright red light that attracted the gas, the red rag of the bullfighters.
His handkerchief Silk was the same color, and the right hand holding a huge bouquet of artificial flowers, roses Bengal bloody hue, covered with long sealing tape, which read in letters the dedication gold.
One might say that was the protecting genius of the place, Elf Circle Red, the white shawl, scarf, flowers and ribbons gathered in a vibrant chord Scarlet, like a symphony of fire.
Intrepid girl came forward holding up the field and picking up, with the free arm the shawl, whose fringes he rained down on the hips.
And as the conspicuous debater, leaving his seat, shew want to take the ex-voto offered the girl for the sake of the goddess Liberty Amparo swerved and went right to the patriarch.
This, standing with his silver beard and slightly undulating like the hermits of tragedy, with his bald head adorned with abundant central tufts es, with his tall, slightly stooped and, he imagined the old classical adorned with his attributes, crowning the top of the times.
And the patriarch, in turn, thought see that good-looking the living symbol of young people.
Both made in his mind thinking of sympathy assaulted them. - This guy gets respect as well as a bishop - is said Amparo. - This girl seems to Freedom - murmured the patriarch.
Meanwhile, the girl began his peroration.
Temblábale voice at the beginning, two or three sometimes had to move his hand, motionless, his forehead damp, and not knowing what had triggered to the branch, whose films wriggle like snakes of flame, and coughed to break a knot that tightened the uvula.
Gradually, the rumor of the table, the whisper of the guests more distant, the light from gas burners that heated the brains, the aroma of wine and Champagne foam, which still seemed to budge on the bright atmosphere, the drunk, and felt flowing from his lips the words and spoke with affluence, with aplomb, without cutting or trip.
The guests were given the elbow, smiling, speaking through his teeth a "bravo!, Very good! "To hear that Republican operatives Factory branch offered to the Assembly that North Union and the Red Circle to test ...
The patriarch's hand was placed on chest, carried it to his mouth most sincere pleasure, while the debater, stiff and serious, occasionally bowed his head slowly in approval.
Finally, the She ended her speech giving the bouquet to the patriarch and shouting: "Citizens delegates health and fraternity! ".
Offering the old man took and passed the president, who stayed with her very fist and without what to do.
Amparo companions confused by the sudden silence, looked askance all directions, wondering the splendor of the table and somewhat surprised that the banquet Republican order was a matter of both delegates and eat them instead of saving the country.
The patriarch approached Amparo, his cheeks were wrinkled and withered at the time rosy cheekbones. - Thanks, nodding stammered daughters senile ...-- -.
us a fraternal embrace a saint ....
many years! - And old and the girl were two fingers to break to mourn, and some of the guests laughed Socapa to see that paternal arm around her neck that youth. -XIX- North Union Beware if it's hot!
On the hard blue clouds of the horizon is not tainted by the slightest mist, waving streamers, placed in the Venetian masts around the stronghold of the Puerta del Castillo, and their colors Gayoso do not detract from the joy radiating from the sky and the loud and cheerful crowd.
Bows and waves green foliage are mast to mast, Dishon and contrasted with the tone of cerulean sky.
Amphitheater in the middle of the stage stood for the Assembly of the Union with its platform to the center and flanked by two lower, but higher, for the party committees.
Well might the Constituent Assembly of the Union's North Coast Iberian - so named in their official documents - take the stage plump and satisfied Presidential session and few brief hours had sufficed to lay the foundations of the great federal union contract; glorious activity, especially compared with phlegm and machaconería those lazy Constituent Cortes, which took months to write a basic code and final for the nation.
Impetuously walked into the amphitheater the delegation, composed of the Republican party and youth, a lot of small fry, rural committees, delegates and all Christian faithful moved out of curiosity wanted to interfere in the procession.
Hastily, as if it were a being only animated by a single breath of life, and voice had the band that stunned the environment with more hymns and anthems, overtook the pulsating mass of humanity, and driven by the compact crowd, flags, wreaths, hesitated as if he were drunk, and as soon gave stumbled and swayed hither and thither, like tornadoes to stand up straight haughty.
And the houses seem to be talking traffic picture and understand your case, and some rained flowers, bouquets, wreaths, and others in smaller numbers, closed and bolted, we said they frowned and put on sullen and serious as he felt the touch of revolutionary waves.
The crowd climbed ladders, rode on the bridge of the bastions, invaded the boxes commissioners, and spread topping the neighboring heights, for the trunks of the masts climbed more than a rogue, bent on dominating the situation.
Majestically entered Assembly his box, and so the delegates took their seats, the tumult subsided as if by magic, and about twenty thousand people were silent religious.
Only be heard out in some corner of the wide scenario, the melancholy cry proclaiming: "Lemon Water cold, wafers, water, sugar, water! ".
Two photographers, located in the right place to take the view, focused covering his head with green baize cloth, and their machines seemed the eyes of history, watching the scene.
Almost hear the flight of a fly especially near the presidential box.
They proceeded to the signing and reading of the Union contract.
From a distance it looked in the box a grouping of heads, including the black hair stood out from the debater melodramatic and gold pince-nez and the Patriarch's snowy beard, shining in the sun like the Jehovah's in biblical paintings.
Baltasar and Borren were supported on a canvas of parapet, standing on a stone chair, which allowed them to see what is happening.
Said that they wish to confederate, to make us more uniditos than before ...
The arrampló mayorazgo all, huh?, Mimes and finance, and he was a old pigeon of the flogging memory ....
and is a blessed that embraces all the world, and hear Mass, and is incapable of harming anyone ...
I have him here between ourselves for something pussy .... - And that dark ...
that of eyeglasses? - Ah!
say is that those who want to lose the colonies and save the principles: straight man, geometry ....
According to Palacios, who knows, the equation between logic and absurdity: not for nothing is an engineer.
the black mustache ...
which is to the left of the Patriarch.
Well look, man, that has cost him money and aggravation this political masquerade ...
and escaped to go to the Mariana ...
In pronouncing these words pointed Borren Amparo, whose red dresses will distinguish the female circle around her. - Well, that girl still politicking rather than the bearded ...
Meanwhile, there was the Union contract, and despite the sun was not far from the zenith, people clustered and pressed produced unbearable temperatures, and you could hear cries of this ilk: "We die .-- .-- When we stifle come a little cool! - But, man, Nah, you squeeze us .-- Hail Mary, how awful .-- Estes Nah, you still .-- For if you do not see, annoyed: sa figurae we see others? - So even can reach into a pocket for a handkerchief sad! - Watch the clock if you have felt. " And the voice of the reader of the Contract was flying atop the sea of ??heads and the words "sacrosanct guarantees ...
tenets of freedom ...
A rain flowers came, unexpectedly, to obscure, and many white doves were released to it, lowering the point the laborious flapping flight, and fell over the crowd, hampered bound to have long legs.
A roaring rocket bucket came snorting Luceria in all directions, echoing the music, there was a minute of screaming, live, noise and confusion, and no one noticed that an old man, a waffle, half dragged out of the enclosure and half in the arms of two men. "He gave an accident," they said as he passed, without adding another comment. -XX- Lad and lass And the accident, died that same evening, without confession, without regaining the senses.
Military service had been formed in such a way the character of old, that insubordination was for him the ugliest crime and its currency, passive obedience, automatic, and so he threatened Amparo, rolling her eyes and voice fierce stammer, to break a rib if you would read newspapers in the factory.
