Ferdinand and Isabella, and never well weighted famous Catholic kings, occupied the thrones of Aragon and Castile, an example of morality and wisdom to all his court, and being highly esteemed not only by the aristocracy of his time, but also by all his subjects.
The royal couple are grateful to the displays of affection lavished these perpetually, could not express it under its appreciation in a more commendable, because these monarchs not dishonor any vassal hiciese stop his carriage, even in the most and popular public to pay attention to what they wished to express.
However this has always been known, according to historians, never absent from the palace those common disagreements and gossip, daughters of envy.
No evidence to characterize but this truth, that the tape being then Queen Isabel the Catholic, began to propagate several characters, among whom was D.
Enrique de Villena, the succession waiting could not fail to be a bastard, and this is apparent from the various scenes had witnessed in the palace.
But yet to be D.
Fernando so proactive, and to inspect both things that were annexed, it appears that these voices took them by vague, and did not care of them, so is that these characters attributed to indolence D.
Fernando at this point fear or the excess professed to love Isabella, who united the links wife Being the granddaughter of his brother.
Particular view would take the de Villena and others to spread by the masses such voices, but a view that later were discovered by the one you were selling friendship, declaring the sovereign verbally projects designed for them, and written correspondence showing they had intercepted, addressed to D.
Juan of Portugal, which immediately answered D.
Fernando sent through his business, Lope de Alburquerque.
Not having loved Don John of Portugal to hear the messenger of Castile, and having come to know very soon D.
Fernando, his temper in such a way that nobody dared to issue a word.
This kind of weariness to the destination hard it was to exercise at the age required by law, he was increasing over the years, on the contrary, any task to that devote themselves to their sex, but embraced with joy unspeakable, so is that's still young, was the admiration of all who heard and watched their entertainment.
To this we may add that his name was but just a way to make known the heir to the throne of Castilla existed.
When your child a few years after the famous Charles V took over the government of Spain, by the usual impossibility of her mother, observed the same method, or because so require in various estates of the realm, or because she was the sovereign actually respect and pray for and attention, as it became known to give statements in his son Philip, pedia hiciese strongly preserve unharmed the unfortunate name of your grandmother in front of public affairs, not to cause discontent.
Fifty years is sovereign retained the title of queen of Spain, in spite of not having ruled not a single day, such was the mental alienation that was caused by the powerful possessed well-founded reasons that will later be know.
The memorable D.
Francisco Jimenez de Cisneros and the king Don Fernando, ordered, as governors during the minority of Charles V, did not divulge the failure of Doña Juana, to Despite being intimately convinced of their inability, so that by many and repeated efforts made by some to declare it null and void, did not make it, and why at all their way, they never suffered from not having the will to either your acts of government.
His reason was extremely disturbed by the impulses of a lawful and vehement passion: was because of this cruel life of an inmate imprisoned, and if you ever felt resentful their precarious fate it was to continue to promote itself with the plight of ardent imagination, thinking that perhaps would commit a contempt order against her more tender adoration.
This is the reason why a name of itself as enlightened, has barely featured under the concept political, in the immense catalog of the Spanish sovereigns, and therefore is entirely zero.
But notwithstanding all, was the queen of this magnanimous and powerful nation, the daughter of the great Catholic monarchs D.
Ferdinand and Isabella, and mother of noble and brave Emperor Charles V; so that the details of his private life, the reasons why he fell into his insanity, and the foundation that is called the Mad, can not fail to excite curiosity, and double cause, can you look in this sovereign, as in the mirror of the sad sad results that the violent passions have led to the extremity, if not modified and punish with reason.
The day August 19, 1496 were made sail with direction States to flamingos.
No mishap had been noticed, anything that had come to disturb the tranquility of the famous traveler had occasionally happen, touching off the coast of Flanders, where he raised a storm so stormy, that were obliged to shelter at the first point of salvation they found.
Great was the grief of seeing Joanna impending danger in his life, but God wanted could arrive at the port of Toorlan, in England, after having walked for a term of more than two hours, fighting with raging waves that another moment had plunged into the depths of the seas.
In this population remained seven days, during which the princess was very flattered by the ladies and nobles of that country, who came rushing to kiss his hand and together to offer their services.
Of how he married Joanna, the children he had and other matters of interest.
When the storm has subsided, arranged the trip to Flanders, and on September 8 landed in the Bay of Ramna, a port situated on the outskirts of Holland, no other contrast to be gone several valuable jewels of the princess, because the vessel where his bedroom was wrecked in a bank called the Monge, very dangerous place.
The prince, who had intended to Heaven Joanna's husband, then lived a lavish Lande palace, village in the Tyrol, but ascertained the promised coming of his face, left this, going with the fastest speed to Liege, where he had the pleasure of admiring the beauty of the Infanta, after having waited impatiently thirteen days in this city.
Backbiting and envy began to be felt in the palace, and therefore did not last long without the disclosure of this event so that as quickly as the news came to Spain, and immediately learned real people.
