This surface, which has little about twenty square degrees, or are thirteen thousand seven hundred and fifty leagues, to twenty-five the degree, is bounded on the north by the Guaporé or Itenes and Beni (river to draw the boundary between Bolivia and Brazil), with the latter that separates it from the Caupolican province by the north-west parle.
Natural limits to the west by the side of the country of Yuracares are desert plains are located at the foot of last foothills of the Andes.
Finally, the province is circumscribed towards Moxos the south, southeast and east by immense impenetrable forests or swamps brought without certain threshold, between it and the provinces of Santa Cruz de la Sierra and Chiquitos.
Albeit quite Moxos province neighboring hills to the Chiquitos east and north to the Brazilian mountains, outlining the right bank of Itenes river, and west to the last foot of the mountains of the Yuracares, contains no in its division one mountain, nor even minor hills, formed by So a flat surface, which meets the south with the vast plains of Santa Cruz of the Sierra, and the north-west with the province Caupolican.
On the horizon without limits, scarcely four highlights are found rising to the height of thirty poles on the remainder of the land, and that, unless it be in the midst of a country so highly level, it would perhaps inapercibidos.
These four points are a few morons isolated the first which is the Cerro del Carmen, is situated about twelve or fifteen miles southeast of the mission its name, and between the rivers Blanco and San-Miguel, the second placed on the bank Machupo River right, and neighbor to the mission that is called, is the hill of San-Ramon, the third is a small hill below the Exaltation located on the right bank of the Mamore: finally, the fourth, which is the hill of Saint-Simon, is found east of Magdalena, his reputation I feel very rich doubtful, as it must be that of all places inaccessible ensures no However, it is full of mines of gold and diamonds.
In a mountainous country reliefs determine the direction of the currents; per in Moxos whose territory no more than a single uniform and without sharp plain, where eminences that separate small rivers disappear under the flood at stations rain, in canoes through allowing a large part of the province, all currents the plain weave circuit converging towards the center, and heading to the slopes Amazon, after having met on three main, which are the Guaporé or Iten, the Mamore and Beni.
Guaporé or Itenes tributaries.
The Barbados born in Rio de Chiquitos Province [1], at quite a distance away from Moxos: This stream, chief among those that give birth to Guaporé, is navigable Casalbasco further up.
As she starts in a swamp where the river takes origin also Paraguay, would very likely join the first tributary of this river with Guaporé, opening for this channel only four thousand eight hundred yards.
In this way they would hand the two giant rivers of South America, the Plata and Amazon coming to form a natural channel of over two hundred thousand leagues.
The Rio Verde takes origin north of San-Ignacio de Chiquitos, and moving toward the northwest, go to Barbados to meet the river, near the 64 degrees of longitude and latitude of 14, forming Guaporé this river or Itenes: steamboats can freely browse and upload it too up towards its headwaters.
The Rio Serre was born north of Concepcion de Chiquitos, and in the same direction as the Green River, joins the Guaporé twenty-five miles below.
It is equally navigable for boats of any dimension.
The Rio Blanco or Baures also takes its origin north of Concepcion de Chiquitos, and as previous two is heading towards the northwest, passing immediately and to Carmen Concepcion Moxos to go to flow into the Guaporé, near the fort of Beira.
You can browse this river to Chiquitos.
The Rio Itonama receives, under the name Rio de San-Miguel, much of the waters of Chiquitos; is then attached to Huacaré near Guarayos, and is parallel to the Rio Blanco to join Guaporé conjunction with the Machupo River, near the fort of Beira.
Ships can steam everywhere sail on its waters to Chiquitos.
The Rio Machupo wealthy tribute of many streams that leave from the bosom of the plains Moxos flooded, these streams are, San-Juan, navigable from San-Pedro, the Mooch, Mill, the Machupo and Chananoca, all gathered and when the river passes Machupo ahead of the missions of San-Ramon and San-Joaquin, to go and join the river Itonama, and to couple this throw then in the Guaporé, also near the fort of Beira.
Guaporé river, once the repository of all these streams of water running towards the oestenorueste to become incorporated with the Mamore, around 12 degrees south latitude and 68 west longitude meridian of Paris.
Mamore river receives all the waters of the eastern slopes of the mountains, its tributaries, starting with those found further east, are as follows.
Ivary River rises in the flood plains that are west of the country of Guarayos and heading towards the northwest, left receives the waters of the rivers Tico and San-Antonio, going to meet with the Mamore a little above the Trinity Moxos.
River is navigable body almost all along its course.
The Rio Grande has all the waters Chayanta mountainous provinces of Cochabamba, Mizque and Valle Grande, then descending to the plains of Santa Cruz, and Adunaic Piray to form the Sara river north of the province.
You can browse their waves up near Santa Cruz de la Sierra.
Piray River rises in the mountains of Samaypata, province of Valle Grande, flows into the plain of Santa Cruz de la Sierra, and passes near the city of that name, receiving everywhere small tribute, and then continuing parallel to the Rio Grande to join with him to form the Sara River, far to the south of 15 degrees latitude.
Its still very fast current in some parts, but when mother leaves can navigate the waters ships of any dimension.
The Rio Ibaba takes origin under the name of Yapacany in the mountains east towards the east the country of the Yuracarés, and continues to run, parallel to the rivers Grande and Piray up Sara plunge into the river, a few miles below the point at which flows in this same the last of those.
Ibaba river is navigable for the most part.
The Rio Mamore born east of the river Ibaba on the mountains of the eastern slope of the and the country ranges from Yuracares.
His current that flows received course the Chimoré, walks along the plain towards the north Moxos, bending a few degrees west.
This river, receiving the tribute of the other rivers of the province preserves Mamore name to 10 degrees south latitude, in which the term incorporated with Beni, making the denomination of the Madeira River.
The Mamore can serve as a vehicle to the cruise to the foot of the mountains.
The Rio Chapare, consisting of rivers Coni, San-Mateo, Paracti and many others born in the country of Yuracares, west of Mamore on the eastern slopes of the mountains, and heading north meets the south towards the Mamore 15 degrees south latitude.
You can browse by him, to the confluence of the river Coni, ie to the point where the plain begins.
Securi River, formed by the rivers Chipiriri Samucebeté, Isidoro, Yaniyuta, and Sinuta Securi, all of them navigable to the foot of the mountains, receives the streams of the watershed East of these, from 68 to 70 degrees west longitude, and is incorporated the above Mamoré of Trinidad, north of 15 degrees latitude.
Tijamuchi River rises in the Eastern Cordillera, west of the last tributaries Securi river, the river receives water Taricuri and crosses the plain of the province by the northeast to the Mamore, which meets as 14 degrees latitude, a little above Mission San-Pedro.
Large boats can ascend it to the foot of mountains.
The origin takes Aper Rio, west of the former, on the same mountain: after receiving the tribute of the Rio San Jose is heading towards the northeast to go to join the Mamore below the Tijamuchi, less than half a degree away from each other.
It is also This navigable river to well above its current.
The Rio Yacuma also born west of the implement and at the same cerranía; Adunaic then with Rapulo river, immediately goes to the mission of Santa Ana and goes to meet with quite the Mamore 14 degrees north.
He can climb up the confines of the plains.
Iruyani River has its headwaters in the plain, and receiving the river flow is Bococa throws in the Mamore towards the north of 13 degrees.
The Mamore, after flows have treasured these eleven main streams, are Aduna as 12 degrees or Guaporé Itenes river, then continued his march towards north to receive the drainage of Beni and form the Madeira River.
Tributaries of the Rio Beni.
The Beni River, which has already been made when talking long Mension Caupolican, mountain boots located northeast of the mountains in the provinces of Cochabamba, Sicasica, Yungas Dolls and Apolobamba, and ends in the plains as 14 degrees latitude, receives tributes to the west of the river Mapiri, Tuyche river, etc..
This is followed by running towards the north to 11 degrees, with change of direction, twisting the northeast to go to join with the Mamore at 10 degrees latitude.
When considered as a whole streams that cross the province Moxos not can but admire you have an area of ??eighteen degrees, or are ten thousand leagues, thirty-four crossed rivers, navigable almost throughout its entire course, not having Meanwhile another conduit for draining the Mamore River.
Naturally results from this unique territorial arrangement, which in the rainy season most of the waters of the province Chiquitos, Bolivia and center on the eastern slope down at once, with more or less momentum, to settle to the bottom of that great receptacle, say so, that is the province Moxos, where not finding it easy and natural conduit to the overflow, they spread across the plain, causing flooding, that few Parages are on deck so we can traveled almost the whole province in this season, rowing in canoes that pass unimpeded over some small eminences that separate rivers.
But if in the rainy season there is only little tongues of land, and immune to flood are a kind of island where they breed cattle and tilled the land, everything changes in appearance in the dry season, the rivers are encased in their beds, gorgeous meadows replaced to the muddy swamps, and the province has an all over virgin soil which provides to agriculture.
Its territory is a set of plains on which they became aware of distance boscages isolated at intervals, taking higher ground, he can not reach water the annual floods.
The perfect equality Moxos field determined in this province a geographical disposition very particular.
In most of the streams just mentioned there are still many streams, branches of these main trunks, and I do not give here the nomenclature.
Its currents could only used for navigation during periods of rising: in the rest of the year remains almost completely dry.
If time Moxos growing province, flooded almost everywhere, shape, say, a single sheet of water in the dry season the plains are lean, and only on the parts are more sunken floor, many wetlands, particularly east and west of the province, but many lakes are permanent.
Can include certain however: Chitiopa Lagoon, which is located far above the Carmen, in the same header White River, which gives rise accordingly.
Itonama Lagoon, which is placed on the river of the same name, about twenty-five Magdalena leagues above: is this lake about two miles wide, on four to five long and consists of an extraordinary widening river.
Only time serene Indian venture to sail in her, but always with some suspicion that leaves to be founded, as the olad usually wind up suddenly, inevitably plunge their canoes.
Near San-Ramon, are two permanent lakes, one located at a distance of half a league and the other a little less than two leagues.
Both have an oblong shape and diameter as a league at the most.
It is very exquisite fish to be taken from them, but the crowd of alligators clogs much to the fishermen.
Still, in the vicinity of Mission San-Joaquin, another lake of the same dimension as above and also contains plenty of fish.
By the time they are finally to dry more of the above, is in the middle of the plain is immediate to the rivers, many small lakes or ponds, as too narrow causes are unimportant: on the other hand, those who are on the edge of rivers, such as those on the banks of the Mamore, change frequently according to the terromonteros site or the avenues of such rivers.
Moxos province no since, apparently, another aspect that of a geographical plain to the south circumscribed by the mountains of the Andes and the hills of Chiquitos towards the north by the hills of Diamond and Brazilian ITENE.
This plain, in the who come to finish all the currents of the eastern slope of the mountain ranges and western and northern slopes of the province of Chiquitos and the General Captaincy Mato-Grosso, meets with pampas through Monte Grande, whereas prolonged to the north, established at that point the communication with the major source of the Amazon: so that the province is nothing Moxos the northern continuation of pampas, the southern continuation of the plains of the Amazon, or rather, a prosecution of that immense low is located on a the last foothills of the mountains and forests Brazil, which embraces from north to south across the center of the southern continent of America, interrupted only from the ninth to the tenth degree of latitude, the slightly elevated cerranía determining the many rapids and falls of the Madeira River.
When the river of San-Miguel out of control, which takes place every year, its steep banks offer alluvial earthy, very fine sand mixed with clay or blackish, and deposited in horizontal layers.
They leave such land gradually lifted with the addition of particles pulled to the high places of the province of Chiquitos.
Between the rivers of San-Miguel Baures and significant wetlands, mud-covered modern alluvium and clay muddy red that I have some relation to my land of the pampas, but not seen I in them animal fossils: these clays are in that place the bottom layer to the floods current, because they are not plain to see but when these floods, blackened earth compounds or fine sand, become uprooted by erosion.
These lands are remarkable especially in the stream of San-Francisco and somewhat later, towards the mission of Carmen.
According assured me, these same clays be stretched, rising towards the south, on a vast area that lies between the rivers Blanco and San-Miguel.
In their midst rises, and at a distance of twelve leagues to the SSE, a small sandstone moron of the Devonian formation, which has many similarities with that of Guarayos.
White does not cross the river but above modern alluvium, I have found yet on many points in the vicinity of Concepcion, and mainly in the immediate surroundings to the mission, some patches of pampas field below the fine sand of recent flooding.
All the plains, which extend from Concepcion and from Baures to Magdalena, are consist of alluvium, to exception of small towns places where boscages discover a little red silty clay: the slopes of Guacaraje and several points Magdalena also around the manifest.
These small pieces of land of the pampas,, scattered everywhere, I gave unequivocal evidence that silt covers the eastern province, and if not visible in other places is because it has been covered.
In these plains, a rod of difference in the level it is enough to cover up the floods, making it disappear completely.
There to the east, 20 degrees north of the compass and about ten miles from Magdalena, a fairly high hill which I did not visit, but that according to what I said a priest who had considered, should be composed also of sandstone.
Between Magdalena and San-Ramon are still covered with alluvial plains, being noticeable only near the hacienda of San-Carlos, and between Machupo and Huarichona rivers, some spots red clay.
San-Ramon is found under those muddy clay, a true clay containing a large number of hydrated iron nuggets and offers throughout the layer Guaraniana my field.
Placing one beside the other two rocks do not have the most slightest difference.
On the slopes of the river red clay Machupo manifest covering Dry all parts of the outlines of San-Joaquin.
However, on the same site the mission and its circuit, and seven miles further north, and also near the confluence of rivers Machupo é Iten, I noticed under considerable pieces of land tertiary Pampa Guaraniana with hydrated iron nuggets.
These clays, filled with shiny black seeds hydrate of iron, cover, according to my particular observations, an area of ??about twenty leagues long, where the richest ore shown at ground without ever intended to benefit.
In making this discovery the year 1832, immediately figured the fat benefits that could accrue to the Republic tillage these mines, and no doubt they would operate a favorable change things, providing its inhabitants the material and the means of all manner of industrial enterprises.
The left bank of Guaporé, near Fort Beira, consists of flooded lowlands rising time, or from scraps of land Guaraniana with hydrate of iron nuggets: the right bank, on the contrary, it is rising in hills to the mountains formed by one of the branches of the Diamond, which mountains, going in parallel with the current Itenes River east-southeast toward the oestenorueste and continues to a point well separated in the middle of the jungle, where it is to determine the rapids and falls of the Madeira River.
It is composed these mountains of crumbling sandstone, very ferruginous and generally red, similar at all to those of the Sierra de San-Jose de Chiquitos and also to those of the last foothills of the mountains, going down towards the north and northeast of Cochabamba.
This stone Sandstone is a compact whole hidden layer at an angle of twelve or fifteen degrees.
These layers, which seem to stretch it out to far to the north, going to finish near River Iten, where they are disguised, over a width of more than a league, by crowding ferruginous, in perfectly horizontal streaks, which contain much iron hydrate.
These conglomerations, entirely identical to those of Chiquitos, and even tell you also to the Corrientes province, represent exactly my field Guaraniana.
I have found thus in this part of the province, the tertiary crowding Guaraniana as ferruginous level of the ancient land, in the clay layer with hydrated iron nuggets, similar to those of Corrientes, and finally, the Pampa area with limos, all of which is covered by modern alluvium.
Guaporé stream introduced me everywhere, on its left bank, landslides modern, which extend to a point that is ten miles before reaching the confluence, where I believed again noted a considerable layer of reddish silty clay, mixed with floods: the right bank is composed meantime, for the space of a few leagues from ferruginous crowding often concealed by landslides after floods land and flooded only to the confluence of the Mamore.
I have not offered this on its banks, almost all along its course, anything but modern alluvial sand.
I noticed however, some leagues Exaltation down in the middle of a forest located short distance to the river, a small isolated hill on the plain, to which I could not approach; but they assured me that was composed of crumbly sandstone, perhaps similar to the stone Carboniferous sandstone.
Also found muddy red clay beneath alluvium in around the missions of exaltation, of Santa Ana, San-Pedro, San-Xavier, Trinidad and Loreto.
Chapare river current has taught me everywhere modern alluvial sandy, I believed noted, however, on many points, which were hidden under these alluvial clays muddy, but this only happens to a great distance from the mountains.
The first QUIJARRO manifest at the confluence of the rivers Coni and San-Mateo.
I've seen it done this in the river Securi.
In all the places where no current passes over land and tours of the waters, I saw a thick layer of alluvial soil, sand formed fine clay or brown, hornaguera, which conceals a silty clay, yellow or red, a very different time and come from causes clearly announced prior to the current state of affairs.
A report about the age of alluvial assured me completely.
