purple Martín de las Casas was also old, but remarkably renovated more girl than her brother, with all facilities and supplies required by the needs Modern: tiles portal gate, well carved poplar staircase with banisters of patent, elegant rooms with friezes and papers, all very neat and Painted. - Good eyes see you, father!
Eloisa said that since her protected had received holy orders not tuteaba.
This was due to a slow reflux among his friends and acquaintances, which warmly received on his return from service.
The movement spawned no heat here but cold.
Gradually leaving him alone, judging their dangerous society.
Was needed to mingle with little people a little more or less and clergy, by their sacred character of his hands were free expedited, or so it seemed at least.
In the casino He looked almost always surrounded two houses escribientillos trade, a music teacher a construction foreman and three or four individuals of the same size.
They listened as a oracle, and if ever in the heat of improvisation soplamocos they eventually leave, cursing a little dignity and returned at once to the good.
Martin had a lot of affected and professional: that this was pure and native.
But his advanced age, physical weakness and he put his ailments to cover any brutal assault by his friend.
Romualdo lived alone.
A son who was employed in Manchester had been dead for four years.
Enjoyed a small income, sufficient to meet their needs short and had no other occupation angling or other recreation that play ombre.
The entire morning was spent sitting on its folding chair in the dock, or on the rocks behind the church, with a hat panama if it was sunny or an umbrella if it rained.
In the afternoon, sitting at the casino until the four that took the pole again.
At night, sitting in the house of D.
Martín it and the P.
He was a clergyman whom he could take forty years of age, but spent a lot of fifty, thick, plump, red, admirable teeth, and protruding round eyes, wide nose, without a gray hair in the hair or a wrinkle on his face.
Everything was funny: he lived in perpetual spasm of joy and admiration.
Held any dullness of friends as the steely joke, to be forced to hold the belly Shaken by the flow of laughter.
And they laughed in good faith, without a hint of hypocrisy and flattery which, of course, flattered the pride of those who were at his side.
Knew him only three passions, tripe stew, the triplet and another that talk later.
When a house, which he frequented, had corns for lunch or dinner, whether they knew it was heading the guests.
It served two or three dishes filled, unbuttoned, his forehead began to smoke and had to leave after one hour rest on the bed, if not, was in danger of exploding like a bomb.
Counselor used to say that tripe-eating every day and played worse when sitting.
And never let go of the sentence without that good cleric writhe and suffocate with laughter.
The ladies quickly away their attention from the triplets so they started to play.
Every night there was a lot of fights like this. - And you, D.
I have not the virtue of prayer.
Instead, I abstain of certain services, such as the murmur of my superiors and colleagues - the chaplain uttered insolent accents, staring at the ceiling involvement.
The reference went straight to the toilet, who had spoken of the greed of the priest.
So understood it, and if I had not clearly understood, manifest it in the eyes of bystanders.
Faced with brutal aggression that ignited her face like an ember.
You have wit, D.
Fr Melchor was laughing mouth full of an insolent and rude manner, looking alternately the young Excuses D.
The chaplain of Ms Serafina also laughed a little laugh acute, lowercase, which appeared to quell her handkerchief to his nose.
The ladies remained serious and upset by understanding the intent poison Sarrió chaplain.
Only Ms Marciala smiling in front of him applauding
