The respect and even fear-inspiring Alhedín Count, suffered little one, soon for anger, and skilled and happy in sets and brawls, not consent that crept Dona Beatriz, speaking of her affair with the Count.
Beatriz was not dealing with women in society, which had not complied with the Count and that had suggested to her.
And Rosita wanted so much to the Count, for anything that caused him the grief of giving by Beatriz understood that he suspected or knew that, in his view, wrong.
Doña Beatriz, therefore, could imagine, or imagined, without doubt, that no one suspected it.
Yields and the deference that was the object could be attributed to its merit, and that no suitors approached him in war and conquest, to its reputation had them at bay.
For, then, all summer and until the beginning of October, when it occurred important cases, soon have to refer, might well Dona Beatriz, none experienced chastened or even slander of Madrid, to live in peace and concerned that no one accused her of being the girlfriend of the Count, and Don Braulio was not ridiculous as a result of having been so kind and so accommodating to her.
At this point I feel a certain itch to recite and to moralize, to my story deserves to be among the specimens.
It would, finally, sick cruel that I crashed against the good Don Braulio, who was so honest, so noble, so great, and whose only fault, if fault was, arose from the tender love and indulgence well thought that he looked at his wife.
Best, therefore, is that we refrain from declaiming and moralizing, waiting to see clear what comes out of this.
For now, we can say is that the reputation of Dona Beatriz was lost; grave evil, but not entirely hopeless, as it was a slander that is suspicious or stated, given the assumption that had no foundation.
Truth is that to remedy the evil was necessary and that patients knew what first terrible condition for the lover Don Braulio, who, haunted by his vague and melancholy fancies, did not notice anything was actually happening around own, and whose heart was overwhelmed both sensed only loss of the love of Beatrice there did not seem to have strength enough to endure the rude shock of certainty and carrying out his hunch.
Has never employed deceit and violence against unmarried or married.
Almost all parties seem to me well and I look bad.
Such Once the woman has bewitched.
The thing is worse than I suspected.
It is not a fad, it is a passion. - If the respect and friendship are passions, I'm passionate about it, I confess.
As same, my mother, I beseech you that belies my love affair with this woman, and does not contribute to defame and make perhaps the unhappiness of her husband, who is an excellent man.
The Countess did not dare to continue the conversation, seeing how excited her son was setting and the vehemence with which he spoke in favor of Dona Beatriz.
There in the depths of his soul, the Countess was grieved much, imagining that his son had no relations vulgar, immoral pastime, but without consequences, but a vivid passion.
Also thought that the occasion was less favorable than ever to induce his son to devoted to politics and his cousin, Adela, and very upset, took another twist to the conversation, waiting for better days.
XV The conversation he had with his mother put the Count in a bad mood Alhedín against foul-mouthed, insolent gossip that were being disseminated all over his affair with Donna Beatriz, but why not in future be sought more cautious and looked to avoid giving occasion and those foundations gossip.
The Condesito had acquired such a habit of going every evening to the gathering of San Teodulo, which would be missing anything before letting go.
Had acquired the same habit Dona Beatriz.
Thus the journal were in the presence of many wicked men, Friends teased and very likely to explain everything by the uglier side
