Was capricious and intractable, complaining about Toni and the other two officers because it accelerated the repair of the vessel.
He then spoke of the convenience of having no hurry to work more complete.
To Caragol was the victim of his temper, which he vented in the form of cruel sermons against the poison of alcohol aficionados. - When men need to be happy with something better than wine, which provides more drunk that drink ...
The Cook, by force of habit, he replied: "Yes, sir ..." But pity inside of the ignorance of men, which makes them focus all their happiness in spasms and faces the most frivolous games.
Two days later the people on board saw that the captain breathed moved ashore.
The ship was in an uncomfortable place, near the coal descargaderos, its stern high so that the propeller was recomposed.
Workers replaced the battered and broken plates with a hammer irresistible.
Since I had to wait about a month, it was better to stay in a hotel.
Give to release a five liras, and advanced several questions, was the first thing Ferragut did when installed in a high part, seeing the blue circle framed Gulf the framework of a balcony.
The waiter, swarthy, mustachioed, listened intently, with a gratification third, and was finally able to form a complete personality with all its data.
The lady who asked the signora was Talberg.
Was traveling, but was to return at any moment.
Odysseus spent a day with the tranquility of waiting in a safe place.
At his feet was the Egg Island, joined to the mainland by a bridge.
The bersaglieri occupied its ancient castle, built by the Viceroy Don Pedro de Toledo.
There were several dark pink towers, who crowded on the narrow oval-shaped island.
This fortress was locked in the past the Spanish garrison cut to record your culebrinas bombards and against the people of Naples when he did not want to pay more imposts and taxes.
Its walls were erected on the ruins of another castle in which Frederick II kept their treasures, whose chapel was painted by Giotto.
And the medieval castle, which was only recall, had risen to turn over the remains of the palace of Lucullus, who had the center of its famous gardens in this small island, then called Megaris.
The bugles of bersaglieri glad the captain as the announcement of a grand entrance. "It's going to come, is going to get from one point to another ..." He looked at the two mountain on the island of Capri, black in the distance, closing the Gulf as a promontory, and the coast of Sorrento, rectilinear the same as a wall. "There she is ..." Then followed lovingly over the steamers plying the vast blue cup, opening a triangle of foam.
In all of them Freya come.
The first day was golden and hope.
The sun shone in a cloudless sky, boiling the Gulf bubble of light under a stationary atmosphere, without the slightest gust rizase its surface; the plume of Vesuvius was straight and slim, stretching over the horizon like a pine tree white fumes.
The second day was silver and despair.
There was fog in the gulf, the sun was no more than a red circle could look ahead, as in northern countries, the mountains had a lead gown and the clouds hid the cone of the volcano, the sea seemed tin, and a cold wind swell, such as candles, skirts and coats, by running to the nations by walk from the shore.
The musicians were singing, but with melancholy sighs, the shelter of a corner to escape the fierce gusts of the sea. "Die ...
To tell the waiter that Talberg signora was in his room downstairs, Ulises trembled with anxiety.
It was the noon cannon out of high Sant Elmo Castle.
The horns Egg Island to respond then your joyful call to the steaming pot, and the hotel staircase stood the racket chinoiserie the gong announcing that lunch was served.
Ulysses went down to take his table, looking in vain for the other guests who had gone ahead.
Freya would be presented with the delay of a traveler who has just arrived and is busy in according to him.
Lunched evil, continually looking at a large window with drawings of boats, fish and seagulls atragantándosele snack every time they opened their multicolored leaves.
And it came at the end of lunch, and took his coffee slowly, though she appeared.
On returning to his room sent the mustachioed waiter for news ...
La signora not had lunch at the hotel: la signora had left while he was in the dining room.
Probably to the night that would see them.
During the meal suffered the same concerns, believing that Freya would appear whenever a Blurred hand and a vague silhouette of a woman pushed the door to the other side of the opaque glass.
Long time walked through the lobby, furiously chewing his cigar, until it was decided to addressing the porter, brown and crafty head sticking out the edge of his desk, on flaps blue embroidered with gold keys, seeing everything, hearing everything, as he seemed to sleep.
Ulises's approach made him jump up, just as if he heard the flutter a paper currency.
La signora Talberg rarely ate in the hotel.
I had some friends who occupied a furnished apartment in the neighborhood of Chiaia, and with them spent almost all day.
Sometimes even came to sleep ...
And sat back down, fixing tight in one hand the ticket that was submitted with your imagination.
After a bad night, Ulysses rose, determined to wait his widow at the entrance hotel.
He took his breakfast at a little table in the lobby, read newspapers, had to leave at the door morning cleaning fleeing, pursued by dust brooms and carpet shock, Once there, he pretended great interest in traveling musicians, who spent romances and serenades, rolling his eyes when he presented his hats.
It was the porter, who was familiar confianzudo as if the night before had been established between the two strong friendship based on a secret.
He spoke of the beauties of the country, advising various excursions ...
A smile, a word Ferragut cheerleader, and would have immediately suggested other breaks which seemed ad turn around their lips.
This belitre going to interfere with his presence the desired encounter, perhaps kept his side by the desire to see and know ...
Taking advantage of its fast absences, Ulysses away from the long Via Partenope, following the railing overlooking the sea, pretending to be interested for all that was, but without losing sight of the hotel door.
He stopped at the stalls of the ostricarios examining the shell-pearl shells lined on shelves, in baskets of oysters Fusaro, the huge shells, hollow bodies, whose throat bellowed, as sellers, as a reminder, the distant hum of the sea.
Miró, one by one, all boats cars, racing sloops, fishing boats and coasting schooners moored in the small port of the island of Egg.
Froze to the gentle waves combing the foam on the rocks of the seawall under the horizontal rods bourgeois, several villagers.
Suddenly he saw Freya along the avenue by the side of houses.
She recognized his time, and this discovery made her stop beside an intersection, wondering proceed or flee into Naples.
He went to the sidewalk from the sea, moving toward Ferragut with a placid smile, greeting him from afar as a friend whose presence there is nothing extraordinary.
Shook hands, and she asked quietly why he was there watching the waves and if advanced repairs of his ship. - But you will confess that my presence was surprised! - Ulysses said, somewhat irritated by this peace -.
Freya repeated his smile with a sweet expression of pity. - It is natural that you're here.
You are in your neighborhood, at the sight of your hotel ...
Then he added: - I saw your name on the guest list yesterday, reaching the hotel.
I like to know who my neighbors. - Is that why you did not go down to the dining room? ...
Ulysses asked this question hoping that she responded negatively.
I could not do otherwise, if only for good education. - Yes, so - Freya answered simply -.
I guessed that I hoped to get out to meet, and do not want to get into the dining room ...
I warn you I'll always do it.
Ulysses launched an 'ah' of wonder ...
No woman had spoken so frankly. - Nor am I surprised by their presence here - she continued -, the expected.
I know the innocent wiles of men. "Since yesterday I found the hotel, I expected today in the street" I said this morning when I wake up ...
Before I followed his walks out from the window my room ...
I've seen you before to me ...
But I do not like false situations are prolonged.
It is better to say all the truth face to face ...
Instinct made him turn his head toward the hotel.
The doorman stood in the doorway, looking sea, but certainly with his eyes to them. - Let - said Freya -.
Join me a little, talk, and then I leave you ...
Maybe we split up more friends than before.
They walked in silence all the way Partenope, until they reached the gardens of the riverside of Chiaia, losing sight of the hotel.
Ferragut wished to resume the conversation, but found the first words.
He realized to contemplate with adoring eyes of the great changes that were made in the adornment of his person.
Tailleur no longer wearing the dark with which he had first seen time.
She wore a silk dress, blue and white, with a rich leather on the shoulders and a plume heron feather on top of the wide hat.
The black hand bag that accompanied on his trip had been replaced by a bag of gold of ostentatious wealth, Australian gold, a shade of green, similar to the patina of the bronze Florentines.
She wore in her ears two large square emerald and fingers half-dozen of bright, which moved from side to side in the sunlight.
The pearl necklace was fixed on her neck, poking out the neck angle ...
It was a magnificent artist rich I check everything over, the love of jewelry that can not live without his touch and puts on his skin just jumps out of bed, ignoring the time and the rules of discretion.
But Ferragut could not distinguish the lateness of this luxury.
All of it seemed admirable.
The same was shocked to hear his voice, always saying same things in different words.
His thoughts were incoherent, but all were crowding around a constantly repeated assertion: his love, his immense love for Freya.
And Freya continued marching in silence with a look of pity in the eyes and the corners of his mouth.
He liked his women proud to watch this strong man babbling with a childlike confusion.
At the same time, impatient at the monotony of his words. - Do not follow the captain - broke at last -.
Guess all that's left to say, and I've heard leading often said. "You do not sleep, you do not eat, you do not live because of me." Their existence is impossible without love you.
There are no creatures with less originality than men when they want something ...
Through the palms and magnolias was seen on one side Gulf bright and rich on the other buildings on the banks of Chiaia.
Some little boys chased ragged around the couple, chasing.
They were then placed next to to a white gazebo that stood at the bottom of the avenue. - Well, love Sea Wolf - continued Freya - you do not sleep, eat you, mates if it is your whim, but I can not love him, I'll love you ever.
Life is not fun, and I have other serious concerns absorb all my time.
Virgil's bust stood in the center: a huge head of something feminine beauty.
The poet died in Naples, "the sweet Partenope 'on his return from Greece, and his body maybe he was gutted in the belly of this garden.
The crowd Neapolitan Middle Ages had attributed all sorts of wonders, to convert the poet powerful magician.
The sorcerer Virgil built in one night the Egg Castle, placing her hands on a large egg floating in the sea.
Also had to blow open the old tunnel Possilipo, near which there is a vineyard and a tomb for centuries as a last visited home of the poet.
Urchins, playing around the gate, threw papers and stones inside the temple.
I drew the white head of the powerful enchanting, feeling at once admiration and fear.
She stopped near the derelict monument. - So far nothing more - he ordered -.
I go to the top of Chiaia ...
But before we parted as good friends, I'm going to give his word not to follow, not to importune with amorous, of not interfering in my life.
Freya took pity on her sadness. - Do not be a child ...
And the world is full of women: I'm not alone.
But Ferragut interrupted.
And he said with a conviction that it brought back a smile of pity.
The tenacity of this man get sore. - Captain, I know well.
Are you a selfish, like all men.
Your ship is detained in port for a fault, should you stay a month on earth is on a trip to a woman who foolishly agreed that he knew in the past, and says: "Superb opportunity to pleasantly entertain the hassle of waiting ..." If I believed, if he accepted their wishes, in a few weeks to get ready the ship, the hero of my love, the champion of my dreams, the sea would be as a last salute, saying: "Goodbye, asshole!" Ulysses protested vigorously.
Everyone can imagine that things must be according to their whims. "Because I want you, you should be mine ..." What if I do not want? ...
I can not live in freedom, no other love than I am by myself? ...
All were born to the same thing.
No, I could not.
He loved her, and after being repelled cruelty, his love would grow.
I was sure.
A nervous tremor was sharp and cutting Freya's voice.
His eyes took on an unhealthy glow.
He looked at her companion as if it were an enemy whose death wish. - Well, you sepal.
I would be immensely beautiful, the most beautiful woman on earth and possess the talent of all the scholars concentrated in my brain, and be rich and be a queen, that all men in the world, mad with desire, come to bow down to me ...
And I lift my feet with iron heels, and would crush heads ...
Hit the sand of the garden with the soles of their shoes short.
You, with all the arrogance of the bully, is a naive simple.
I can drop him to a woman all kinds of lies ...
He looked towards the palace of the aquarium, stretching his whiteness between the colonnade of trees. - I want to be - continued, thoughtful - one of those sea animals that cut with pliers their legs ...
to devour their fellows and absorb everything around them
