Men and women of great stature: some bring in an agugerillo nose, in which put a pen gallantry parrot, and the other is painted blue face with roots that are never removed, and bring cotton cloth from the waist to the knees.
From there we went to the Agac, who also kept hunting and fishing.
Indian men and women are high, and these are painted and cover as the background.
Recibiéronnos of war, wanting impede the journey, and can not reduce them to reason, we fought with them in water and land and killed many: of us died 15.
Do not take anything because the time to fight wives and children had retired, and hid the supplies and how much they had.
Then tell what happened: the village is Curumias of 35 leagues.
It is situated near the river Jepido, [16] that the other side has the Paraguay River, which descends from the mountains of Peru, near the Xarayes.
From these towns we pass to those of the caries, which are 50 miles of Agac where found much corn and cotton.
Indians eat sweet potato roots, they know to apples, and cassava that tastes chestnuts that make beer (mandel-bee-re).
They also fish meat, pigs, ostriches, sheep, Indian, as big as mules, goats, chickens, rabbits, and other things of this kind.
It is so long the land inhabited by the caries, which is 300 miles wide and long.
The Indians are small and fat, and more work than others.
Bring a agugerillo in lips, and a crystal fawn on him, called in their language tembetá, two feet long, and the thickness of a goose cannon: go naked like pigs.
Use including selling fathers to daughters, husbands to the women, and sometimes brothers to sisters; and the value of India is a shirt or knife, or hocecilla, or something similar.
To kill the captives in war, whether men or wives, young men or old, and as we kill the pigs.
Preserved for some years an Indian recommended age and trace, but it will accommodate the wishes of all, they kill and eat to treat, as famous as that of our wedding, but if gives pleasure to all, and grow old keep it until she dies.
Carios make these journeys longer than the other Indians Rio de la Plata.
They are fierce in war, and have their towns and fortresses near the river, in Paraga high.
Lambaré the city, and as it was besieged and surrendered.
The city of these Indians, who call these inhabitants Lambaré, is surrounded by two fences sticks, as thick as a man, placed every twelve steps, kneeling on the ground, leaving without so much as the height of a man with the sword and arm raised, and to fifteen steps had made pits and holes in three states of deep, covered with branches and earth, and in the middle each, a spear set, acute.
This device is to get to the Christians, because leaving Juan de Ayolas 60 men in custody of the launches, was against the city, in order, with 300 soldiers prevented it, and arrived at a bullet shot of the Army of the Indians 4.000 were armed with bows and arrows, they sent us to say we were to return to the ships, and give us provisions, and the rest we needed to return to our land as before.
We despise this offer, because this province very well suited for us, the abundance of supplies, especially because in four consecutive years we had not eaten bread, but meat and fish only, and often very low.
They started the caries shooting at us, and we did not hurt them, but we wanted them to understand be his friends would not quiet down for not having experienced our swords nor muskets.
Acercámonos and shoot the artillery, to whose noise and havoc, seeing that fell many died without knowing that, and deformed agugeros wounds in their bodies, terrified with great fear, fled tumultariarmente, falling over each other in the pits, more than 300, giving great haste to get to his people.
We besieged the city, and the Indians fought back strongly, until the third day, killing 16 Spanish, but fearing damage to their wives and children who were with him, asked forgiveness and lives, and delivered to our will, offering to do what they mandásemos and accept peace.
Oyola Captain gave seven pig, over 18 years and six deer, begging us to stay with them.
A two Indian soldiers were to those served, and food and other necessities, and so we were friends.
He entered the Village of the Assumption day, the year of 1539, and gave the name of the day, and so is called today.
After fourteen days, gave the last envestida, stubborn throwing all his strength, and set fire to the houses.
As we loaded our ship with rice, manioc and corn, and left with both ships and the captain and his soldiers Cabrera Alonso de Santa Catalina, sailing to Buenos Aires; and lies just 20 miles from the city, the eve of All Saints, in the Paraná River, asked sailors to each other, if they were already in the river Paraná
