But they went out those words from his lips, he noticed Cecilia, and between admiration, and Reid said: - Ay!
I know the man who is lying there.
This, under the hands, with which already shaded forehead, he looked fierce, which were painted her temper and anger.
Then he rose and left the room without another word.
Is indeed strange that only this man did not feel sympathy for the lovely street. - "So you have no father or mother?
I live with my grandmother, who is a very good old lady, who loves me and lets me do whatever I want.
I do not know more or ask me more.
While girls want to ask more questions, and learn other details about of life and relatives of Cecilia, but, on the one hand, his father had told them to leave her in peace, and, secondly, his mother, unable to control his chagrin, he indicated by a gesture Significantly, it was time to come out of there so impudent wench.
Filled with gifts and farewell finally, Cecilia, went through the back hallway on the street, a seasoning that came down from the high a young man in summer attire, ie shorts Saudi sucks and who just saw her recognized her and told from the top: - Cecilia, ah, Cecilia!
She, not containing the passage, but still staring at him and cried, telling him to front door: Cuica!
And while opening the right hand, put his finger thumb on the tip of the nose and moved the other very quickly.
I escaped from your nonsense.
It is not referring here to the scene following the departure of the girl in that house.
The ladies, on the contrary, even when turned to the window to see and greet their friends, who spent the ride back in luxurious carriages, did not stop talking about Cecilia and repeating his name, helping then the older brother who knew her and was often with her when she went to the father's Latin class Morales, opposite the convent of Santa Teresa.
In the meantime the girl, following in the street below came to the square of Santa Catalina, whose embankment, which runs across the front, went up by leaps, and then fell to the street Avocado by a concrete staircase.
Once there, he went right, though cautious, immediately to the corner house occupied by a tavern.
Not touched or stopped before the door, but gently pushed the blade of the right or male, which was subject with an average iron shot on the ground.
He had been with vermilion paint that door but washed by rain, sun and time, no dark spots left but around head of the nails and the boards deep moldings.
Despite the narrowness of this hostel was a sleepy cat, several chickens and pigeons, certainly very familiar with only two human hosts, as they came and went, jumping on the backs of chairs, meowed, cooing and cackling without consideration or fear.
On one side of the room was a loft bed, oblong, who was always of receipt as it was of rawhide, the hardness of the softened a featherbed covered perennially with a quilt of a thousand and one pieces or inlay.
The twisted columns, instead of curtains, held San Blas, scapulars, crosses, cardboard, glass stones and blessed palms of Palm Sunday many years ago.
In reality this was not home but gave shelter to about two, because, outside the two mentioned parts, had no more comfort or relief that the court said, where he was the kitchen, the better, fireplace, wooden drawer full of ashes, mounted on four uprights and protected from rain by a kind of forward bedside.
We stopped in both description of the shack where Cecilia came, because their imagination stop the benign reader in contrast, would offer a girl so beautiful, overflowing life and youth, in the midst of antique, that it seemed that heaven had placed there to say all the time ear: - Child, includes what you will and be more sane.
But we are confident that this was the least she thought, and then double reason As mattered most felt they did not get a certain person who, back in chair, in front of the niche, seemed to pray or sleep.
And suddenly throwing hand, in which event he dropped the book and were afraid the cat who blinked often sitting in a chair, pigeons and chickens.
Cecilia, far from being frightened or run away, with much laughter burst into the arms of bad-tempered grunting and grandmother, and to tie his tongue, he gave as he had been given the where girls had been.
CHAPTER III Damn old That the girls badly Crazy about fables.
ZORRILLA More flattery and cunning of which fit in a girl her age, Cecilia hugged and kissed his grandmother, whom he named Chepilla (Josefa capricious alteration), so usually called.
That was enough to appease their anger, and nothing in it that surprising because, as we shall see, had been so unhappy woman, felt such a need to be loved by the only person that cared about the world, to maintain reliability the granddaughter, had been like to extend his own martyrdom.
Of course, sealed his lips at once, and he missed another thing to contemplate, well and just before had been contemplating the sweet face of Mary, in earnest prayer.
While the girl clasped at the waist to the old with shapely arms and leaned beautiful head on his chest, similar to the flower that blossoms in a dry stem and leaves and fragrance enjoys life with death itself, the figure was more sign Josefa strange and ugly than it was naturally.
Her face itself was opposed to the rest of body.
Whether it was because he used to take the hair back, and because it took nature, the truth is that it looked too wide forehead, big nose, blunt sharp chin, and sunken eye sockets.
This gave expression to his face grimly, not easy to overlook the less informed observer.
Morbidity was still in her arms, and his hands could be described as cute.
But the most notable of his face were his eyes large, dark and penetrating remnants of a faction that had been pleasant, disharmony now by premature aging.
Mulata of origin, their color was copper, and over the years and wrinkles had become sunburnt, or slanted, to avail ourselves of the common expression that is designated in Cuba to a mulatto child and black, or vice versa.
Could be 60 years old but looks older, because it began to bleach the hair, something that people of color tends to happen later than in the Caucasian.
The mood disorders face first annihilate the body mortal man.
As we shall see later, Christian resignation, the work of his faith in God, grass that finally fed his spirit in the long hours devoted to prayer and meditation only had remained standing against the onslaught of his wretched fate.
Moreover, with the sad conviction of which a measured look at his past and his future, and what should and could expect from his granddaughter, beautiful flowers thrown in the middle of the public square for be trodden down of the first passer-by, and in the last third of your life with regrets the past, before anger, he realized that he played to appease the wrath of their invisible judge and sought quiet moments, when sounded postrimera meantime.
In one in which our narrative surprises, although it had met 80 of its life, have believed that he had lived a very short time if they did their last moments and left behind yes to the helpless young granddaughter in the world, and she was not as attend the outcome of a drama in which she, rather reluctantly, without being the heroine, represented, for some time, role important.
Sign off the character of Joseph, naturally irascible, the rule of conduct that has been said before, as a means of achieving the forgiveness of his own faults, it is easy understand why, but Cecilia just mad because she was late, and other many previous failures, he was willing to exonerate rather than scolding.
Then as she came with his flattery, rather than steal the body, it's served as a pretext plausible to be confirmed in their purpose.
By virtue thereof, promptly changing the tone and appearance, contented himself with asking for a second time where he had been. - Me?
In the house of some very pretty girls that I were passed and they called me.
There was a fat lady sitting in an armchair, I asked what my name was me and how my mother was called, and who was my father, and where I lived ... - Jesus!
she cried as if speaking grandmother itself. - And if not for a man, went on Cecilia, who was lying on the couch, and scolded the girls and told them to let me still and then went to his room Bravissimo ...
I've seen him talk to his mercy sometimes beyond to Paula, when we go to church.
And I remember now that is the same each time I find on the street tells me street, lost, urchin and many things.
hoarsely exclaimed the old lady get away from his chest and looking at her Fixed a strange way, more angry than surprised.
But as if a serious thought occurs or a painful memory and between warn and advise, what perhaps amounted to shine what you should be ignorant life, his spirit sad struggle in a sea of ??doubt granddaughter surprised to suddenly his lips sealed.
Gradually the high sea was serene disheveled, vanished one after the other clouds huddled at the horizon naturally dark, and turning to shake the girl in her bare arms, said with all the sweetness he could give his voice hoarse naturally, calmly that he could take his face: - Cecilia!
