This is explained Reyes the instructions given to the respective commissioners passed, and the river or stream Garey are closer to the river Xejuí pouring in Paraguay in the 24 ° 12 'N Southern, which is well outside the tropics, and leaves to the northern part of Iquamandiyú our peoples, Concepcion, Belen and Tacuarí, with the best yerbales of this province.
The river is no doubt that the name assigned to the treaties Igurey juniors and seniors, is the river Yaguarey or Yaguarí, which also has the names of Monici é Ibinheyma and empties Parana in the West Bank towards the latitude of 22 ° -1 / 2, on the Big Leap Paraná.
Yaguarey This is much more water than the Garey, Amambay Igatimí and therefore more appropriate to limit, but may be wrong, because, besides being well known, is the only entering the three mouths Paraná.
Besides that, Yaguarey there is so little to Igurey distance and identity so that it can and should be copied by mistake from which treaties or the map had in mind for them.
Indeed, it is easy to see that the voice Igurey is altered and corrupted, it is not significant in Guaraní, when the Yaguarey and Yaguarí are, and very pure.
The headwaters of the Yaguarey or Yaguarí, according to newspapers and maps of the markers past, are closer to those of another very mighty river that flows into the Paraguay for its coast East, in the torrid zone, towards the latitude of 22 ° 4 ': whose circumstances, and sometimes combined with the penultimate and treated in accordance with the instructions of their respective commissioners, determined to these, but it had controversy or doubt, to believe that the treaty by calling Corrientes, and to put this name on his map of the ward, when, before seeing Igatimí river, marking the Paraguay River to the Jaurú.
This river, believed Corrientes, has also the circumstances of high flow rate, and to be unequivocal, it enters the Paraguay, together with some hills, these markers called Itapucú.
Addition to the above, the Yaguarí, and having their heads closer to him, sheds the river Paraguay, covering well and navigation facilities of both crowns, leaving them far from the Spanish settlements, and more the Portuguese.
All this is more conformable to the intention of the Sovereign, the most established in their orders, instructions and treated, and includes the daily and final demarcation maps, the originals solemn, signed by the respective commissioners, and approved by both courts, stop at the These files, to which I refer: Limited to include a copy of a piece of the map final demarcation, for the better understanding of what I said.
So, no man just be separated from what I say, no doubt that the river has all the earmarks Yaguarí without lacking one, be the SS.
indicated by the name of Igurey, and if the same were present to make such treaties.
I know that has been applied to the Portuguese efforts that support Igatimí under of instruction agreed to by both courts, on 6 June.
Conde de Floridablanca Mr.
Juan Jose de Vertiz, the April 7, 1782, in which preference is given to the treaty.
Th game forces me to say to your Excellency, that, according real instruction on June 6, I can not demarcate the river Igatimí, as I commanded, but in the case of not finding Igurey river in my view there: and as for the Ipan, I can not accept in any case
