She was pretty, with the freshness of youth.
Her eyes gray, large, gullible, simple and frisky lamb, straight hair, white-blond, hung in faint streaks on the brown face and red, dotted with freckles.
Handled with clumsiness the closed umbrella, and then he glanced anxiously double gold chain coming down from neck to waist, as if he feared the disappearance of a long gift requested.
Rafael left to examine to look at his wife.
His view that ran neck topped by the tight blonde hair, a gold crest, white collar, round, fleshy; broad and slender back, hidden under a blue silk blouse, slimming lines quickly at the waist and widening later, to mark the contour of the hips under the gray skirt harmonic folds tight cloths like a statue, and whose edge appeared the solid English shoes heels, locking the foot small, agile and strong.
His sonorous voice, pasty, vibrant, launched a few words of Rafael could barely reach the main syllables.
The silence of the tall rustling folded and seemed confused, but the young man was sure he had not spoken in Spanish.
Perhaps the wife of a French or English exporter of those who had settled in the city for the purchase of Orange.
And forced by isolation and vulgarity of his life to a painful continence, his eyes devouring the contours this woman, backs superb, opulent and elegant that seemed to defy indifference.
Rafael saw how carefully he left his home the hermit, a rustic living of people visiting those heights.
Attracted by the appearance of the unknown lady presented health by offering water to the tank and discovered in his honor the miraculous virgin.
He turned the lady to answer the hermit, and then could contemplate Rafael with all tranquility.
She was tall, very tall, maybe he had the same height, but softened by curves that exposed the robustness combined with elegance.
The opulent and strong chest and a head on it which made a deep impression on Rafael.
He seemed to see through a cloud - the warm vapor of emotion - green eyes, big, bright, funny nose of pulsing alillas and pink, and blond hair that fell over his white skin, with slides of nacre, faintly streaked with blue veins.
Rafael thought those features found in the footprint of countless artists.
Maybe in the illustrated newspapers, on the albums of beauties artistic, it was possible that the boxes of matches played fashionable beauties.
The fact was that at that face seen for the first time in his memory felt the same impression that finding a friendly face after a long absence.
The hermit, excited by the hope of a tip, llevábalas to the chapel, at whose door Weird peeked his wife and daughter, dazzled by the huge bright twinkling in the ears of the unknown. - Between you, SEÑORET - said the rustic .-- Lady will teach you know?
Our Lady of Lluch, legitimate, he came alone from Majorca here.
Back in Palma believe they have true, but what they have to say?
Rage makes them the idea that Our Lady prefers Alcira, and here she is, proving it is true with the portentous miracles it performs.
Opened the door of the little church cool and shady as a warehouse, showing in the background, stuck in a dull gold baroque altar, the small image in the mantle gap and the black face.
The good man, rattled, and who knows by heart the story of the image.
It was the Virgen del Lluch, the patron saint of Mallorca.
A hermit came fleeing from there, it was not why: perhaps some of the Saracens in the time of wars and atrocities, and save Our Lady of desecration, brought her to Alcira, building this sanctuary.
Came then from Mallorca to restore her to her island, but as the celestial lady had law took Alcira and its inhabitants, flying over the sea again without getting wet feet, and the Balearics, to conceal this event as an image carved.
It was all true, and as test there was the first hermit buried at the foot of the altar, and there the Virgin with her face black as a result of the sun and humidity of the sea that darkened in his miraculous journey.
The lady listened to the good man, smiling slightly, her maid, kept his ears to fear of losing any word of a half-understood language, and his big eyes peasant credulous, would the image of the narrator, expressing admiration for so portentous miracle.
Rafael had followed into the chapel, and was approaching the stranger who affected not to see him. - This is a tradition - he dared to say when the rustic finished his story .-- You understand you, madam, that no one accepts such things here. - I think so - the beautiful stranger replied gravely. - Treason or not, Don Rafael - growled the hermit with discontent - and was told by my grandfather and all of his time, and so people think.
When so much has been said, there must be.
In the patch of sunlight cast by the doorway on the tiles, it marked the shadow of a woman.
He looked young, but his face pale and flaccid as paper marking the outgoing and cavities of his skull, eyes sunken and dull and wicks dirty hair escaped from under the knotted handkerchief, dábanla aspect of disease and misery.
Walking barefoot, with shoes in hand, swinging painfully, with legs apart, as if you experience great pain when putting plants in the ground.
The hermit knew a lot, and while the unhappy, panting from the ascent, and pain of her bare feet, was dropped on a bench, he told his story in a nutshell Mrs and Rafael.
She was very ill, a condition of the matrix which ended with it quickly.
I did not believe doctors who, she says, "playing tricks with words", also repugnant to the modesty of good Women, educated Christian, given to outrageous displays of diseased organs.
I knew the only cure: the Virgen del Lluch would eventually heal.
And every week, barefoot with shoes in hand, painfully climbing the hill, in her garden she could hardly move chair and the husband needed to guard the house trappings.
The hermit approached the sick, taking a piece of copper in his hand.
Wanted a joy as ever, eh? - Visanteta, gocho uns! - Shouted the rustic hovering at the door.
He went into the church his daughter, a MøreNot Bouncers and dirty, with African eyes: a beauty seemed rustic getaway in a horde.
He settled on a bench, turning his back to the Virgin and grumpy gesture which is forced to do every day the same thing, and with a hoarse voice, torn, angry, that shook the walls of the sanctuary, began a slow chant, singing the story Image and mighty miracles.
The sick woman, kneeling before the altar and hold the shoes, showing the skirts the soles of the feet bruised and bloody by scratches from the stones, repeating the chorus after each stanza, imploring the protection of the Virgin.
His voice sounded weak, sad wail of a sick child.
His haggard eyes in the image with a painful expression of supplication, and covered with tears as her voice sounded increasingly shaky and distant.
The maid knelt and continuing with the head movements of singing chant, pray in a language that finally Rafael knew, was Italian.
The lady looked at the patient with eyes of pity. - What a thing is faith! - Sighing voice murmured. - Yes, ma'am, a beautiful thing.
And Rafael had added a sentence rhetoric and brilliant of the many who had read healthy authors on the greatness of faith, but in vain searched his memory, there was no nothing, that woman deeply disturbed her shyness alone.
In the last stanza the wild singer disappeared, and the sick incorporating work, getting up after several painful attempts.
The hermit approached her with the gift of a shopkeeper who extols genres establishment .-- Was that better?
The poor sick increasingly pale, revealing a terrible grimace of pain he suffered in stitches his heart, he dared not answer for fear of offending the miraculous Lady. "I did not know! ...
The hermit placed in his chair and ran after to the tank to bring a glass of water.
The Italian girl, with eyes wide with fright, was to the poor woman consoling words tore loose pity "Povera!
The lady came to the square.
Rafael's pretending was distracted, a little ashamed of his insistence, and wishing at the same time an opportunity to resume the conversation.
They despise doctors, not serve them, and kill with these barbaric devotions from which they expect health. - Who knows if his is the best!
Evil is invincible, and science can against him both and faith.
The stranger was silent, his eyes fixed on the horizon.
In her mouth, large, sensual and fleshy lips, and among them loomed the magnificent and bright teeth, seemed to point a smile caressing the landscape. - How beautiful is this! - Said without turning to his companion .-- I wanted to see him again!
Finally got the chance to make the desired question was offering herself. - Are you in here? - Asked in a tremulous voice, fearing that his curiosity was repelled by contempt. - Yes, sir - only answered the lady. - As it is particular.
I've never seen you ... - No wonder.
I arrived yesterday. - As I said! ...
I know everyone in town.
My name is Rafael Brull, and I am son of Don Ramon, who was mayor of Alcira often.
The poor boy felt the itch to give his name, to say who was to sound that name famous in the district to acquire personality enhancement to the unknown.
But beautiful lady merely followed his statement with ah!
of cold surprise, that did not reveal even if your name was familiar.
But at the same time, he wrapped a glance research and mocking that seemed to say: - This guy has good presence, but must be stupid.
Rafael blushed, realizing he had made a simplicity to give his name and no one it asked, with the same solemnity as if you were in the presence of a rustic district.
Rafael wanted out of this situation, it bothered him to see that glacial woman, indifferent to treat you with courtesy dismissive, arguing with great correction distances to avoid familiarity.
But as early as the slope, dared to follow asking - What do you spend much time in Alcira? ...
Rafael thought the ground sinking beneath his feet.
A new look for green eyes: but this time cold, menacing, something like livid lightning, reflected in the ice. - I do not know ...-- answered with a slowness that seemed to emphasize his disdain .-- I use to leave sites when I annoyed them.
And after a pause, looked at Rafael's face to greet you with a cold nod. - Good afternoon, sir.
Rafael was stunned.
He saw how he went to the doorway of the sanctuary by calling the maid.
Each of his steps, each swing of the hips arrogant, seemed to raise a barrier between her and Raphael.
The saw gardener leaning affectionately on the sick, opened a small satin bag that had her maid, and sifting through junk bright and embroidered handkerchiefs pulled the hand full, shining silver in her fingers.
Poured on the apron of the astonished peasant gave something back to the hermit, who showed no less start, and opening the red umbrella set off followed by the maid.
Passing by Rafael, the latter replied to sombrerazo inclined elegant, almost without looking, and started down the rocky slope of the mountain.
The continued the young man looked at through the pines and cypresses grow smaller viewing woman proud of her body strong and healthy.
Around him seemed to float even your perfume, as if to let him get away wrapped in environmental superiority of exotic elegance that emanated from his person.
Rafael saw the hermit approached, desirous of communicating his admiration. - Quina lady!
He had given a hard, white slice of that for many years, because of the low faith, did not rise to those heights.
And there was Visanteta, poor sick, sitting in the chapel door staring at her apron, as if hypnotized by the brilliance of a handful silver, hard, single and double pesetas, coins of fifty cents, all content bag, even a golden button should be of a glove.
And guided by the incomprehensible words of the maid, added with conviction: - Be a fransesa ...
Rafael returned to continue the sight of the two umbrellas that went down the slope as insects color.
It was not the greatest of a red dot, and was lost down on the plain between the green masses of the first orchards ...
And when he was alone, all alone, Rafael suffered a big explosion of anger.
It seemed odious the place where so shy and had proved so clumsy.
He resented seeing the flash still there that look cool, repel, taking a wide berth.
And to answer the greeting of the hermit and his family, rushed down the hill hoping rediscover it did not know where.
The heir Don Ramon's, hope the district, was furious, waving his hands with a nervous tremor, as if to slap.
Not even his political friends guess afternoon the reason why Rafael, making good time, was to withdraw into the atmosphere Casino dense.
The most boisterous fellow surrounded him to talk once again of the great news that brought a week ago stirred the party.
Within two or three months before the end of the year, new elections and with them the loud and unanimous triumph of the candidacy of Rafael.
Don Andrés and the most serious of his followers, was thinking about remembering dates and making accounts with the fingers, as courtiers who form their calculations on the eve of the declaration Prince older.
The intimate friend and lieutenant of the House of Brull, was the most aware.
If elections were verified at the time indicated by the newspapers, short of some few Rafael months, five or six, to meet the twenty-five years.
But he had written to Madrid to consult the characters of the party, Minister of the Government was willing and had previous Rafael and although it lacks the age requirement, the district would be for him.
And not send Madrid more nursery.
And all the gray brullesca is preparing for the fight with the noisy enthusiasm of one who knows that victory is assured beforehand.
He, they desired the arrival of elections to be free, back in Madrid, remained insensitive that afternoon as if were about the fate of another.
Looking forward to the table where Don Andrés sitting with three other notables playing your daily departure, and waited for the moment which came to sit beside usual to him, that he considered his duties as Regent, sheltering under the authority and wisdom master the Crown Prince.
Good middle of the afternoon, when the room was less crowded casino, the atmosphere is open and quiet ivory balls on the green cloth, don Andrés adjourned the game closer to his pupil, surrounded by supporters as always stickier and sycophants.
Rafael pretending to listen while he prepared mentally question the day before Andrew wanted to make a gift.
The old man began to laugh, throwing back his chair so shaken by the noisy belly laugh, does not hit the edge of the table. - Do you also have you seen? - Said between the gasps of his laugh .-- Well, sir, that city this!
Arrived yesterday, and we all have seen, and do not talk about something else.
