Biel length does not exceed 14 kilometers per 3-1/2 latitude, with 434 meters height above sea level and 70 deep.
Smiling for the color of its waters and picturesque appearance of its banks lined with vineyards, in whose depths are highlighted, as suburbs capricious in some localities, several groups of beautiful country houses, the lake is HOWEVER severe and majestic in the lower region of the basin, by the magnificent semicircle sharp as a huge, colossal rampart, forming the mountains of Jura S.-O.
Lake Morat (or Murten-See), separate from Neuchâtel scarcely a mountain and some rolling plains, measures just 7.795 meters long, 3.186 Latitude, 52 depth about 23 kilometers in circumference.
It is riparian only the cantons of Fribourg and Vaud.
By covering his eyes all the three lakes, one can not but notice the intimate fraternity that refers to a system.
Such is the nature of more lakes first and second order found in Switzerland.
Some breed to another, multiplying life and the wonders of nature.
No wonder that the Swiss people imitate their institutions and customs, the variety and the brotherhood of nature.
Here everything is different, HOWEVER and everything harmonizes and bound as admirable groups in the Alps and the exquisite game of hydrography.
It is on the right bank of Lake Morat ú East which takes the village or small town same name (about 1.800 inhabitants), built on a hill top.
The riparian is lower or industrial and commercial.
The high is a curious and original the streets of massive arches, dark and heavy, old frame houses, semi-feudal and sources of secular history, similar to those of Neuchâtel.
Morat is of ancient origin and closely linked to heroic traditions, and renowned for the famous battle won in its vicinity, in June 1476, the Confederates Berne, Fribourg, Basel and other counties, against strong army of Charles the Bold, - battle that secured the independence of these peoples respect of the Dukes of Burgundy.
A stone column erected in 1822 by the republic Fribourg enshrined in the very center of his field the memory of that battle, so fruitful results for the Swiss.
Morat is the center of the minority of reformers who are in the canton of Fribourg.
The night covered with vague shadows of the landscape (because the moon was obscured by thick clouds) when we passed that region, where the coach rolled down between dense beech forests and grasslands and crops.
Good job cost us to make us open a hotel in Freiburg, at ten o'clock at night, when we got to the coach.
In that city, where the Jesuits and the friars have been printed deep track, everything is in customs and in the buildings of the feudal type and monks.
It works and sleeps very little, and every detail of life is the seal of the ancient and the authority of habit. - The city of Freiburg, which is the 8 of the Confederation, for its population and territorial extension, now has more than 106,000 inhabitants [18], and its area contains 1.435 square kilometers.
His territory, whose length is S.-E.
the N.-O., is contained between Bern and Vaud and divided into three very unequal parts.
The main mass of continuous area, is cut in the middle by the beautiful little river Sarina, almost from end to end, and boots from the spurs or rough terraces of the Bernese Alps.
The other parts, very small crosses the vaudense territory, and one of them is also riparian Lake Neuchâtel.
Except for the mountainous region that extends towards the Bernese Oberland, the territory Freiburg (whose basin of Sarina is going to be confused with that of the Aar) is composed of plains wavy and choppy, narrow valleys and a complicated succession of low hills gay populated and dense forests (pine, fir, beech, etc.) and covered inclines natural meadows and fields.
It is a wonderfully picturesque country, where all the grandeur mountain regions is replaced by the grace of the undulations and beauty an intermediate soft vegetation. [18] In 1851 he was 99.801, of which 87.753 were Roman Catholics and other reforms or Calvinists.
The Sarina and Broyer, major rivers, are only navigable by small boats, rafts and canoes.
Transit trade is considerable, not lacking in some establishments Canton industrial (mills, wood sawmills, breweries and tanneries) and is notable production Straw Hat Indian or Italian, very elegant and light.
However, the Canton is mainly agriculture.
Apart from the cultivation of grains, legumes, snuff, fruits and plants filamentous and cutting wood, the main wealth is in the vineyards, the offspring of cattle (very good quality) and the manufacturing of excellent and famous Gruyères cheese and other classes.
Fribourg population consists of two races, more or less mixed, which use the two respective languages, but degenerate.
French is the official language, but speaking people in the family use is as vicious as the German.
Actually any language completely dominates, as the German dialect called welsch prevails in the cities of Freiburg and Morat and its countryside and districts, while the French dialect called Romansch is the rest of the population, particularly in cities and towns.
As to the races although its origin is debatable, as with all European races, the Latin or Franco-Swiss (75 p. 100) and Germanic (25 p. 100) are meeting there, but they fraternize and have mixed so much that, although the city of Freiburg is that demarcates the geography of two races in Switzerland, in a line that rotates from the mountains of Graubünden until the Bernese Jura is very difficult to determine the area on the end of races that populate the cantons of Ticino, Valles, Vaud, Geneva, Neuchâtel, Fribourg and part of the Grisons and Bernese and occupying the other cantons of the Confederation. * * * * * You could say that the whole history of the canton of Fribourg (Villa-free) is, as the Geneva, concentrated in the capital.
The times of the Romans and Barbarians have left in traditions of the country but dark or sad.
It was in the twelfth century, under the higher authority Empire of the Franks, which was submitted to the country as part of Burgundy trasjurásica, Dukes of Zaehringen resolved to create a system of free cities that resist ambition and the depredations of the robbers called feudal nobles.
To this end Freiburg was founded in 1179, with special privileges of a free city, but feudatory of empire, as its name indicates, under a constitution similar to that of Cologne.
The powerful Bern was born in the same aspiration, being noted the similarity of position Fribourg and Berne, both occupy impregnable peninsulas formed by deep rivers and equipped strong strategic defenses.
Up to half of the fifteenth century was dominated first by Freiburg founders and then by Germanic empire, successor of the Franks, and especially by the House of Habsburg.
That house returned their freedom, but soon fell Freiburg, insolvent, in the hands of the Counts of Savoy creditors.
The war waged by Charles the Bold led to Freiburg aliase with the Swiss patriots and regained its independence with the victory of Morat.
In 1481, enlarged with several acquisitions, came to appear as Canton of the Confederation, and later enlarged its territory at the expense of neighbors, local achievements through agreements or friendly.
Completely dominated the aristocratic regime in Freiburg until 1798, when the intervention French favored the democratic revolution.
European coalition in 1814 restored the status above, but the revolutions of 1831 and 1847 (especially the latter) secured the victory of the democratic republic.
However, should not be taken to the letter this qualification, because There is enough difference between liberalism or democracy on Freiburg and radicalism Geneva, Vaud, Neuchâtel, etc.
The aristocratic party has made vain efforts to recover power, it is true, and Canton, which until 1847 had been one of the most backward of Confederation (like Lucerne, which still dominated the Jesuits), is today one of the forces liberalism.
Popular government is representative and the authorities operate independently, although Judicial Executive Legislative Council emanate from the Great.
This formula gives rise to any authority and election of the legislature (the only direct representation) is so general in Switzerland is found in almost all counties, even those that differ in their basic institutions of another kind.
In Freiburg the life of the law is very considerable periods.
Despite the twelve years that have passed already since it opened the liberal regime, the city Freiburg I found one of the less developed central and western Switzerland, particularly with regard to public instruction and industry.
Most of the Confederation remains still privileged industrial associations or corporations, and this contrasts sharply with political freedom and the entrepreneurial genius of the Swiss.
But where this evil has been linked with that of ignorance or a vicious education, maintained by aristocratic institutions and monasteries, as has happened in Freiburg, the social face, sad, sleepy, contrasts much with the smiling face of nature.
The long domination that the Jesuits exerted in Freiburg until 1847 or 48, far from spreading instruction in the people concentrated in a narrow circle, entertained the masses in most deplorable ignorance, and only served to keep the ideas auje case series the aristocratic spirit, the routine at all, the cult of superficial religion, monopoly light, and especially the wealth.
Among the institutions of Freiburg is a very curious that I have not found in any other nation Europe: The law requires every home or building owner to insure against fire and other accidents, and the cantonal government is the insurer that speculates on the monopoly the company.
That institution, which, properly understood, extend and apply the otherwise fertile (Because at heart there is a great idea), as it exists in Freiburg is nothing but a monopoly socialism socialist and the worst possible.
For the rest, the incomes of Canton, which balance with expenses reached about 90.000 pesos per year, due to customs (as in Switzerland Each canton has their own), cantonal goods, indirect taxes and on drinks, stamps, postal and tolls, and the monopoly of salt and gunpowder.
Among all this amount not invested 2,000 pesos in favor of public instruction, which is under the direction authority!
But in compensation for the Canton, who are poor, ignorant and backward, is the advantage that you sing matins responses and 325 secular priests and 450 monks and nuns in 17 monasteries ....
The numeral is not so small to 106.000 inhabitants, occupy only an area of ??1.400 square kilometers.
Fortunately, after 1847, he has worked on the roads, but not great scale, and the railway that is being concluded in Lausanne to Berne, to Freiburg - work a Franco-Swiss company - developed significantly Canton wealth and prosperity. * * * * * The picture of Freiburg, viewed from the opposite side of Sarina, the route that leads towards Bern, is remarkably picturesque and funny.
They need double under mountains and lakes that gives them their principal interest to Geneva, Neuchâtel and other cities.
Charm it's all in the situation, the relief, contours own appearance.
I will pause to describe Freiburg because few cities to offer such a strange contrast as that between general forms and its interior features.
Located at 628 meters above sea level and 60 to 90 on the bottom of the valley of Sarina, the city occupies the undulating plateau of a hill that semi-circle surrounded by more than its beautiful river, has, for its huge steep ravines, the air of a great strength.
But the city, feeling the attraction of the river and its valley has shed its somewhat extravagant buildings and streets on one flank of the hill Peninsular and sliding down and through a neighborhood suspended over the abyss, almost air, in which each house looks like a relief of limestone rock - the district Auge - Freiburg has come at last seated on his rock, his head high in the hills, to set a foot on Sarina beaches, creating the modern suburb and the industry, - the Villanueva.
Therefore communication between the districts and low, between the top and bottom of the abyss, no occurs only in one way, extremely curious, then describe.
From the site I mentioned as the best to see to Freiburg, admiring a landscape charming.
In front stands the mass of the city, with no prospect of streets, because buildings are as crowded on the edge of the ravine, which if they would all look, through the holes of its many balconies and windows, and transparent blue waves the bottom of the abyss, and suck the breeze of the plains of the right margin.
At the foot of the city, starting from the left bank, climb the cordon of strong walls and towers old, like a huge arm that extends from the heights Freiburg to close the door to any scaling.
In the gentle hills that crown the neighborhood of the square stands the great Pensioner (building that belonged to the Jesuits) sitting on the terrace of vegetables, and stand behind the Lyceum, the beautiful tower of the Cathedral (which gives its chimes Free concerts every hour) and the humble tower of some other churches.
The buildings Bourg waist seems to form a second stronghold, as if the huge rock were not enough, - uniquely shaped bastion, whose nakedness contrasts with the gardens full of vegetables that lie at the bottom of the valley and climb towards the middle of the canyon.
There caracoles the Sarina (dominated by a magnificent suspension bridge), clear, babbling and smiling.
The fund also could see, at the apex of the angle formed by the river, the end of Villanueva, which shed their plumes are some factories and mills and dry cleaning.
