Desnoyers family was to fulfill his wish.
Unnecessarily senator demonstrated the impossibility of this trip.
They were still beating in the area where he fell in July.
Needed to consider the grave of the child before he died in his turn.
And Lacour had to work for four months, making supplications and forcing resistors Don Marcelo could make this trip.
A military vehicle was, at last, one morning to all the Desnoyers family.
Senator could not go with them.
Rumors of a forthcoming ministerial change, and he was displayed in the Upper House, if the Republic claimed their services a bit slighted.
They spent the night in a provincial town, where he was the commander of an army corps.
René took reports of the officers who had witnessed the great struggle.
With the map to the view was following in his explanations, to know the section of land that had July the regiment moved.
A soldier who had taken part in the battle served as their guide, seated on the seat beside the chauffeur.
René consulted from time to when the map spread on his knees and asked questions to the soldier.
The Regiment he had fought alongside the Desnoyers, but could not remember the exact locations walked by him months earlier.
The field had been transformed.
Appearance was than when it was covered with men, including the incidents of the battle.
Loneliness baffled him ...
And the car was moving slowly, without further north than the groups of graves, following the central road, smooth and white, getting on the roads cross: winding ditches, bogs of deep ruts, in which it was made big leaps scream docks.
Sometimes it was to cross country, a group of crosses to the other, crushing with the footprint of your tires the furrows opened by the plow.
White locusts covered the landscape of death.
No left free corner of this flutter glorious funeral.
The newly opened gray land by plowing, roads yellow, dark groves, all throbbing with a ripple tireless.
The ground seemed to shout, his words were the vibrations of the restless flags.
And the thousands of screaming, with a chant incessantly restarted through the days and nights, singing the monster clash I had witnessed this land and which kept A chill still tragic. - Dead ...
Here we had developed the most terrible battle, the fight to use old, the shock body to hand, out of the trenches with the bayonet, with the head, fists, teeth.
The guide, who began to orient themselves, was pointing out various points of the compass alone.
African shooters were there, more here, hunters.
Large groups of tombs line were soldiers who had charged with the bayonet by the wayside.
René fell behind the soldier to examine the inscriptions on a crosses.
Chichi also lowered mechanically with the irresistible desire to protect her husband.
The number of bodies could be counted by kepi helmets or rotting and rusting attached to the arms of the cross.
The ants were Rosary on military uniforms, pierced with holes of putrefaction, and they occupied yet the number of the regiment.
Crowns that had adorned with patriotic devotion some of these graves were blackened and leafless.
Only memories remain of them to rob from time to time to a old farmer driving his cow on a road in France and that he would mutter and sigh: "My baby! ...
Where is he buried my little boy? "Just live in the village woman dressed of mourning that does not know how to solve the problem of their existence, children going to the school with black blouse with a fierce will say: "When I grow up I will kill them Boches to avenge my father. " Dona Luisa, motionless in his seat, his eyes following the passage of Chichi among the graves again, interrupting his prayer: - Lord, for mothers without children ...
for children without parents ...
your anger that we forget and your smile back to us!
The husband, dropped into his seat, the field also looked funereal.
But his eyes were fixed steadfastly in some graves wreaths or flags, simple crosses with short inscription tablet.
They were German graves, which appeared to form separate page in the book of death.
A Moreover, in the countless French tombs, inscriptions to small-simple numbers: one, two, three dead.
The other, in spaced and unadorned graves, heavy items, bulky figures, figures of a frightening brevity.
Fences limited long narrow sticks these ditches filled with meat.
Bleaching earth as if it had snow or salt.
The cross was in his board indicating that the tomb contained Germans, and then a number: 200 ... 300 ... 400.
These figures Desnoyers forced to make an imaginative effort.
They said promptly, but it was not exactly easy to evoke the vision of three hundred dead together, three hundred wrappers livid and bloody human flesh, the straps broken, dented helmet, the terminated boots mud balls, smelling of hard tissues in which decomposition begins, glassy-eyed and tough, with the grin of supreme mystery, lining up in layers the same as if they were bricks in the bottom of a trench that is about to close forever ...
And this memorial alignment was repeated at intervals throughout the vastness of the plain.
Don Marcelo felt a fierce joy.
His fatherhood comfort suffering runaway experienced of revenge.
Julio had died, and he was going to die too, unable to bear his misfortune; but many languish in these rotting enemies who left loved ones in the world we remember, as he remembered his son! ...
He imagined them as they should be before the time of his death, as he had seen on the progress of the invasion around his castle.
Some of them, the most learned and formidable, bore in the face of dramatic scars of dueling academics.
They were soldiers who had books in the backpack and after execution of a batch of farmers or the looting of a village he read poets and philosophers in the glow of fires.
Science swollen, with swelling of the toad, proud of their intellectual and pedantic enough, had inherited the heavy dialectic and winding of the ancient theologians.
Children and grandchildren of sophistry lies, is considered able to provide the greatest absurdities with mental somersaults to which they had used his intellectual acrobatics.
The preferred method of the thesis, antithesis and synthesis they used to demonstrate that Germany was to be mistress of the world, that Belgium was to blame for his downfall for having defended, that happiness is to live every human regimenting the Prussian, without losing any effort, to the supreme ideal of existence is in the barn clean and the full manger, that freedom and justice do not represent more than French revolutionary illusions of romance, all which is holy from fait accompli when that succeeds, and the right is simply a derivative of force.
These intellectuals with a rifle appeared to be the champions of a civilizing crusade.
They wanted to triumph definitely on the dark blond man, wanted to enslave the despicable man South, getting for all that the world was run by the Germans, "the salt the earth, "the aristocracy of humanity." Everything in German history was worth something.
Mediterranean men, with evil in their own home, had falsified history.
These bearded men river and gold spectacles, peaceful laboratory rabbits and the chair, had prepared the this war with their sophistry and pride.
His guilt was greater than that of Herr Lieutenant in tight corset and shiny monocle that want the fight and I had only to slaughter professionals continue their hobbies.
While the German soldier I got the lower class could and shot them drunk so he jumped the passage, students read at the bivouac warrior Hegel and Nietzsche.
To barbarism refined, cold and cruel wise ambitious preferred barbarism modest childish and savage bothered him less, and it was not hypocritical.
Therefore the only enemies that inspired pity the soldiers were dark and few letters that were rotting in those graves.
They were rustic field workers factories, shop, gluttonous Germans were immeasurable bowel in war an opportunity to satisfy their appetites, and paste to send someone after spend his life in obedience to his country and getting kicked.
The history of his country was no more than a series of raids to the south, similar to those raids of Indians, to seize the property of men living on the banks temperate Mediterranean.
The Herr Professor had shown that these expeditions looting work represented a high civilization.
And the German was going forward, with enthusiasm of a good father who sacrifices to win their own bread.
Hundreds of thousands of letters written by families with trembling hands were at the Germanic horde in their progress through the invaded lands.
Desnoyers heard reading some of them, to the late afternoon, before his haunted castle.
Papers were found in the pockets of dead and prisoners. "Have no mercy on pants red.
Mata Welch did not spare the small ... "" We appreciate the shoes, but girl can not wear them.
Desnoyers imagined impatience, on the other side of the Rhine, the holy women who hoped and waited.
The death lists had not said anything maybe absent.
When not writing is perhaps because we have prepared a good surprise.
Do not forget the collar.
Send a piano.
The French things are beautiful ... " The brief cross the earth stood still white lime.
Near it fluttered the flags.
They moved to one side to another as a protest head, smiling wryly.
The guide pointed to a group now distant graves.
There was certainly where the regiment had fought.
And the vehicle off the road, its wheels sinking disturbed soil, having to make long detours to avoid the scattered graves capriciously by the hazards of combat.
Man's work extended from tomb to tomb becoming more visible and was repelling the morning mists envelope.
Under the soles last winter began to smile, nature, blind, deaf, insensitive, ignoring our existence and indifferent in her womb welcomes the same to a poor little animal One million human corpses.
Sources still kept their beards of ice, the earth was crumbling under foot the crunch of glass, the wrinkles were still ponds, trees, black and asleep, retained on the trunk metallic green shirt that had worn the winter; the bowels of the earth all breathed a cold and fierce, like that of the planets off and the dead ...
But spring had girded on his armor of flowers in the palaces of tropics, saddling the green steed neighing impatiently soon run the camps, bringing to his gallop in disorderly flight to the black goblins winter, while his floated back the loose hair of gold like a trail of perfume.
Announcing their arrival herbs covering the roads of tiny buttons.
The birds were afraid to go out from their shelters to flap between the crows cawing of anger at the tombs closed.
The landscape was taking in the sun a smile falsely childish gesture of child looking candid eyes, while his pockets are full of stolen goods.
The farmer had plowed the seed patch and fill the groove.
Men could continue killing, the earth has nothing to do with their hatred, and not for them is going to be discontinued course of his life.
The gate had opened his lines straight and inflexible, as all years, erasing the kick of men and beasts, the deep ruts of cannon.
The funnels open by the bombs had filled.
Sometimes, the Iron Triangle was hampered underground ...
anonymous dead and without a grave.
From time later stopped at least soft obstacles.
The farmer dug the apparatus of death, sometimes with malice late, did explosion in his hands ...
But the man on earth knows no fear when he goes in search livelihoods, and continued his straight forward, twisting only upon reaching a tomb visible
