Was this a being made for life on earth?
The cry had been pleasure of that love, joy, hope, compassion, fear, pain, everything did mourn.
The impression I felt on seeing her for the first time had been so strong, that soon there had failed to realize all its beauty. "It consisted of perhaps the most seductive in grace languid, almost hesitant to his tall, thin, or the purity of funny lines face, forehead smooth as if it were the work of a sculptor, crowned with abundant hair blacks who descended into two bands by the temples and gave it a resemblance to the Virgin pain or tenderness of the look, the deep expression of a soul anxious?
A more attentive contemplation had made him understand after all these details together formed the event of his person, but then I also saw that this beauty is not was durable.
Some days, there were hours in which the thinness of the cheeks seemed too big: all lines of the face is altered, as close to disfigured complexion, unenlightened at the time by the inner flame, it became livid, the eyes appeared veiled and almost blind.
But these sudden shutdown did not seem more than statements of beauty too big and almost out of humanity, had made him tremble in fear of him, because he revealed the threat hanging over the life of his beloved.
The feeling of admiration that be lovely everywhere in the wake of its best moments, was becoming then in caring compassion and heart to garnish the candle plant, for that fleeting and fragile beauty, was much stronger than it would have taken his admiration for other pride and triumphant beauty.
He still remembered the words he had heard at night and far away, when one of those moments quiet too rare, had yielded to the insistence of a cheerful crowd, and had to play the piano.
An intoxicating music sound out of the instrument, and the mysterious Under the tune was for the young soul of an explanation of why the superhuman sudden animation beauty that shone in his face.
And at such maximum degree great, he felt humiliated and almost offended, saying that the greater was the superiority That woman, the more difficult it would be closer to her and the more insignificant or unworthy should be judged.
But when his heart was more oppressed by the consciousness of the distance that separated them, suddenly saw that without the hands of the pianist interrupted the implementation of Largo by Bach, who played the purple of her cheeks turned pale, wonderful purity of the lines of his face was altered, was dissolved.
