Surely, if the happy day arrived and the chandeliers were not on the console or screws in the beautiful ears of the lady, the first thing that lynx would notary lack of these things ...
See where to happiness itself engendered a stinging pain in such a way that the unhappy lady was in a sick painful perplexity.
The expressed saying that perhaps would be glad to not be so happy.
The impatience and vivacity of Bringas manifested in a fever of domestic intervention, in management such as delirium, watching without seeing and directing all the same as if seen.
Not a minute left to enact miscellaneous provisions, and he himself answered questions I was doing.
XXVI "Daughter, hear what I say ...
If we are going to order those convicted bathrooms, you deal with the dresses you have.
The silent changes, you take away one thing to put it another ...
Do not think, so do to the duchess ...
I expect that His Majesty will put two little letters to the leader of the movement to give us tickets Free for all ...
Another thing: if you're taking your position and what you can do, you can get that the Lord ordered the Administration to give two months' pay me the month of July ...
You know everything will be done, and talk about our trip to grieve and say that we can not for lack of ...
This depends on the hardening lame beneficial, and easy will, it almost always is in that temple ...
Do not do anything until I see it.
Can you spend a very striking and make sense, with baskets on their heads that make them chyle sweat.
I will get the jipijapa that Augustine left forgotten, and my levisac of nap, which I did six years ago, and my denim dress that always looks brand new ...
I'll give us a car booked to take food, stove that making chocolate, a mattress, pillows, water jug ??and some other useful thing ...
Since I do not see I keep track of the plates and cups that I have felt down, not down a dozen and a half.
When See, my God, I find the house made a shame.
Do not tell me no.
I think that I see the mess of everything and a thousand useless expenses.
I can not explain the huge consumption of oil, now I do not need light.
And Prudence, are you making good account?
Bet that no.
With that of the master does not see, all is confusion.
For if the drugs cost us money would have to beg.
Anyway, I put me well, and everything will be fine.
I think that since I have not done so many things I have ordered ...
And, as the master does not see ...
In the distribution of time is not what will be done.
I am also sure that you do not remove children's shoes when they come from school and put the old ones.
In the noise I know that walking footsteps running around with out shoes on the street.
Well might habérsete bring a alpargatitas occurred, which this time are the best ...
But I see, I see, and everything will return to that tolerance-tolerance without which we can not live ...
And I figure that Prudence lava not all it should.
It will not be for lack of soap, which has spent more than necessary in these days when I've moved so rarely, without the use of collars or cuffs ...
Bet that when taken Candidita coffee, have not you done it the previous day, but you've cast again.
Was again all things the state they were before, and to obey the lengthy time rules that flowed endlessly inexhaustible source of domestic law.
Brought boys' sandals, and Bringas not already ruled that school because excessive heat I was bad, and the holiday, about being an economy, it was very hygienic.
They thanked much, and all day it went running and playing in the corridors with large denim robes, or they went to the third floor for other children and Irene.
Were happiest beings in the house, almost as much as the birds that nest in the hollows of architecture and wrap around the imposing edifice in an atmosphere of lullabies.
In those days, had a visit, that caused surprise both of husbands and a sense something far from satisfaction.
A person whose name they did not want to remember, Refugio Sánchez Emperor, presented himself at home, when least expected.
Sorely embarrassed by which believed that masked a brash Rosalia to switch, even a moment with decent people.
Soon said the reason for your visit.
Francisco ... "He says since I knew not think of anything else. " He was immediately commissioned to visit the lords, to know of how she was sick, and I wrote a post back.
Wanted heard from him two or three times a week at least ...
Augustine was also carefully and desiring to hear the news ...
Bringas was very grateful, and both urged their improvement, which had to believe Refuge just had that huge fad band. "Tell them I'm fine and thank you much attention ...».
Rosalie felt like saying to fresh four who had the audacity to desecrate the honorable entering her house, but he kept his composure D.
Francisco and good manners of the girl's contained.
While the girl was talking to Bringas, the Pipaón de la Barca was in and out as if such a visit was not at home.
Looking at it to pass, had to notice something that decreased their antipathies.
It was the restraint and showing seriousness, things were not good measures reasonable and said, was her dress it was swish, new, beautifully cut, made and decorated.
Rosalie looked at sideways and could not of amazement from that of a goat hair so original and beautiful color, decentísimo and appearance of the young, well-gloved and better road. "It graciosilla" - said for himself, and was left wanting to ask where he had bought the goat hair ...
Francisco back to her face, as if the could see through the black band. - Do I Sánchez ?...-- replied a little embarrassed at first, but recovering with the highest resiliency -.
So, now not working.
You know, since I sleep, seems to make me a stone here ...
My sister tells me I need to pass themselves with facility and rest.
I live a very removal ...
Well as I was saying to you, my sister wants me to take on something.
As no I can work or machine needle, Amparo is determined to put an establishment fashion, and to begin sent me a huge box of hats, fichus, brimmed hats, ties, Bow-Tie, camisetitas ...
Madrid have not ever seen so much new stuff and good taste.
I also received a straw and cloth caps, ribbons of all kinds, feathers, marabou, egret, plumes, Amazons, touches, pinions, hummingbirds, esprís, and how God created.
I doing tests to see how I compose ...
I've searched some parishioners of greatness and have been to my house many ladies ...
Delighted all I have.
Saying it, took out one to give it to Rosalie, who with evil took smoothing frown, deigning to grace the girl with a benevolent smile, the first seen Refuge disparaging those lips.
And while the youngest still more expensive the workmanship callipygian of that industry in which they had been, the Bringas oíala with some interest, forgiving perhaps the contempt of the person by the sublimity of the matter was.
It seems to me that if your sister does not send you to live on, what's with you eat the rag again elbows hungry ...
Girl, by God, play and play at another door ...
Your industry is the ruin of families and the novitiate of San Bernardino.
A good laugh while it lasted, which was attended by all those present, even the lady who had the incredible kindness of accompanying Refuge to the door, and give some pleasantries.
XXVII "Do not you wonder if they have married?" - Rosalie said her husband, when he rushed next to it. - I had the word in the mouth more than once to ask, but I did not dare, for fear to tell me no, and I take a berrinchín. - I had to restrain myself to not put it on the street - said the lady doing enough to appear possessed of a holy rage, legitimate son of a sense of dignity -.
Is metérsenos audacity to come here and stupid with messages of good piece of your sister ...
As the feelings Augustine also make me grace ...
A people for whom the Catechism is like the specifications of doggerel ...
I do not know how you had the patience to withstand such litany of lies and nonsense ...
What crap are those!
The entry of Mr de Pez cut the number of observations that had undoubtedly illustrate the matter.
Soon after, Bringas, who never tired of giving orders, provided that there hereinafter eat at one or one and a half, Spanish style, dining at nine night.
This was not only more comfortable at the station heat, but cheaper, because they spent less coal.
My man recommended lentils, beans chard and peas, though they were black broth, garlic soup, and abstinence from meat at night.
This plan was no more inconvenient than having to add to their stomachs, afternoon, the weight of a Chocolatito, whose charge, by the fact of having stuck Dona Candida family like a leech, it was point less than unbearable.
Truth is God was always in aid of Thiers, for Dona Tula, in summer the same system adopted meals each evening was a delicious chocolate and almost always sent to a sick person gourd, well guarded by mojicón and biscuits. "This Dona Tula - Bringas said when the maid was entering his neighbor - is a person very attentive ...».
Rosalie went to the house of Doña Tula, rarely missing the chocolate Pez six and a half ..
There were other highly skilled people in the city, as the sister the mayor, a man chaplain at times, the second official stewardship, the inspector Usually the doctor and others.
Miracles do not ever put your feet in the house of his sister, because some time ago which were not treated.
Speaking of the Marchioness, used to designate Dona Tula with some reluctance, but without going over here.
Mary was almost always, and everyone loved with it, mimándola.
La de Bringas was there public display of her dress and Candida mozambique wore his black grosgrain, only kept in good condition.
Be idle to say that being found Mr.
Fish present, no other mortal would dare to lift the rooster in a conversation policy or on any matter of substance.
For my part I confess that the manner of speaking of that man as guapín and words as well measures, exercised not know what narcotic action on my nerves.
The same thing was to get him to explain why their result with moderate party, I thought that a fresh henbane is poured into my brain, and the couch Dona Tula, stroking their arms warm, invited me to take a nap.
Courtesy, however, obligábame to fight the damn dream, which was a similar state the doctors call coma vigil, a view without seeing a ghost image transition, a hearing without hearing, and tinnitus are mixed.
The quaint room that was half the heat closed and in the shade, the filtered light coming through the transparent fabric, lighting with the enormous tropical flowers coloring these, the bass tone that faded tapestry had all the things in this sleepy cavity, the slight hoarseness Dona Candida and yawning, discreetly covered with the palm of the hand, the beauty of Mary Sudre not seem to belong in this world, the mozambique pintitas Rosalia with that dizzy the eye, and finally the slow sound of the rocking and the fans chis chas five or six ladies were so many agents lethargic in my brain.
As the sequins glittered Some fans and flashed the concepts one by one ...
Prim was in Vichy ...
The Queen would go to the farm and then Lequeitio ...
It began to take something picked tails, bath and queues were already banned ...
González Bravo was sick to your stomach ...
The so- I could not see without bitter sorrow the situation that things had come about because and others ...
The revolution with its all or nothing and moderates with his non possumus put the country the edge of the slope at the edge of the abyss, the precipice.
This was a land of destruction, a country of adventure, a country divided between the conspiracy and resistance.
All services public were in their infancy.
Fish was an ideal organizer stroked his mind, but what how to do it?
His ideal was to ride a perfect administrative system, with eighty or ninety DGs.
That there was any manifestation of national life that escape the wise guidance of the State.
