I see you in a bad horse, and with heavy heart I have to be severe, that the king has sent me to walk with softness and contemplations.
Then the sheriff put his hand in his pocket, and between the thumb and the index took an ounce of gold. - Do you see your honor this argument? - This is a pelucon, Mr.
Here the girl's fancy with a sigh, and who accompanied her said in chorus: - Jesus, my dear!
The participating comrades also of blessed bread.
In Spain dábanlas the plañidoras name, but in these kingdoms of Peru are baptized with the pain or crying.
The colonial government did its best to banish them, I'll try a side or regulation duels that Viceroy Teodoro de Croix sent enact in Lima dated August 31 1786, and have had opportunity to read in volume XXXVIII of Various Papers Library National.
It says at face value, Article 12 of the side: "The use of crying or plañidoras, as opposed to the maxims of our religion as contrary to law, is perpetually outlawed and abolished the contrevening imposing the sentence of one month of service in a hospital, or bakery house of mercy. " It seems that this camp was like many others, dead letter.
As soon died neighbor who leave finance to pay a decent funeral, when the executor and relatives were poured through the streets in search of more fame llorona, which was responsible to hire the gossips who had to accompany.
The stipend, as says an old I have consulted cento was four pesos for the mourner in chief and two for each subordinate.
And when the mourners, casting of lavish, adding some realejos on price rate, then the sore were also forced to do something extraordinary, and this thing was to accompany the crying with patatuses, epileptic seizures and Repelon.
Them together with the so-called ax poor, who attended with a candle in hand, waiting to the church door and out of the body to give vent to his grief contraband.
Say what you want against them, but what I contend is that the money earned conscience.
Tell them so trained that it seems as if carried inside the body a Store tears they were so good fake, thanks to the record of spending by eyes fingers dipped in juice of garlic and onions.
Did not end here the mission of the mourners.
There was still the tail to be skinned, that is, the ceremony receiving the mourning house of the deceased for thirty nights.
Enlutábanse draped black, block room, shining a beacon or windshield covered with a veil that barely left guessing light or oil light a moth bouncing something like hint of clarity, but actually served only to make the darkness more terrifying.
From seven in the evening the friends of the deceased in the room fell silent and were seated without a word.
A duel was in plain consecration of dumb.
The block was the headquarters of the skirts and fleas.
The men imitated friends not to move their lips, which, all things considered, should be harsh penance for the daughters of Eve.
Only to blow it lawful for them weeping loudly and launch from time to time one oh Jesus!
A mischievous, for example, long half-dozen of mice on the block, and then arming of screaming, running, screaming and tantrums.
Fortunately, at the stroke of eight reception ended: here were the troubles between women.
This act was called breaking the buck.
In the end it was decided to give this show some courage, and approaching the inconsolable not always widow, he said: - How you be!
Be satisfied, my daughter, that he is among saints and resting in this ungrateful world.
Do not give the penalty, that is offending who can do anything.
When the family returned to offer his condolences, of course we put on the table to the widow and competition, and cut the girls, with the scissors that God gave them, a gorgeous tunics.
a woman who has the courage to call Stateira! ...
On each night the police car received a penny columnar and a chocolate muffin.
And do not forget that lasted a month fair bargain.
But among all plañidoras had one that was more, the ne plus ultra of the genre, and only deigned to attend funeral of viceroy, of bishops or very exalted personages.
Distinguished with the title of the weeping of Good Friday.
To me there is only a desecration than this, and is performed annually in large cities, to walk or pilgrimage, in November, the cemetery is undertaken.
Vanity of the living and not the sorrow of the bereaved is who that day decorating the graves with flowers, ribbons and symbolic crowns .-- What would they say about us? - say the loving relatives -.
And I found vanity even in death, says more learned from books.
The gravestones are the subject of derision and defamation in that pilgrimage. - Man! - Says one lad to another chisgarabís of braising, by reviewing the tablets -.
Which was dear to me cousin, the banker, and cost an arm and a leg ...
Girl very charitable ...
Here's a dedicated patriot, those who give wing to eat the breast and they know take advantage of any calamity.
And just to show of irreverent gossip.
These slanderers hair comes to the couplet popular: The shoe bring broken, how it remedaré?
With peaks that spread gossip that is not.
The real pain flees from the noise.
Go for a walk to the cemetery the day of deceased for viewing and be seen, by the thing - where are you going Vincent?, where are all the people - as will the plaza de toros, for novelty and for killing time, is to commit the most disgusting and stupid sacrilege.
Parents of Mercy, in competition with what were the Augustinians Eve, drew Good Friday procession in a litter with the tomb of Christ, and behind them and surrounded by many devout, was a disheveled woman, yelling, cursing Judas, Caiaphas, Pilate and all the executioners, and the funny thing is that, without being shocked soul living throwing the Jews as risqué apostrophes point as the children call them ...
In the chapel of Vera Cruz also came at eleven at night, the famous procession Minerva, which, as everyone knows, were sponsored by the noble descendants of the companions Pizarro, who was the founder of the noble brotherhood and got sent to the Pope for a piece of the true church lignun Cross, relic that still retain the Dominicans.
The aristocracy never gave room for the mourners, leaving the popular motif for the procession of Our Lady of Mercy.
Archbishop Bartolomé María de las Heras had not enjoyed such masquerades, and the first year, which was the 1807, where he attended the procession, into the street, stop litter ordered to withdraw this outrageous woman with no respect for the sanctity of the day dared to pronounce curses unclean.
