EUMORFO .-- This goes from dark brown.
Asclepigenia .-- I do not become silent or with reason or without it.
In order to show you that the reason I need, I will tell a parable, if you are quiet to hear it.
Asclepigenia. (A Proclus, who has been and is silent since it came.) And what do you say?
Asclepigenia .-- In the garden of this palace is a rose, which was almost dry and lost found in sterile soil .-- What do you need?
It is necessary that corrupt substance that is absorbing mulch rose sap you must give invigorating freshness, gala and elegance to its leaves and flowers.
The greens of the leaves is bright, your roses are divine.
And just as I had thought and wanted, came the most gentle and playful butterfly I've seen in my life, and hovering around the pink, rested on his breast, without skewing only the flexible stem, and Libo honey golden cup.
I noticed, however, that this was not enough.
Rose was clear exquisite fragrance, which was dissipated by the atmosphere and the zephyr spreading their wings.
In the rose was also extraordinary beauty, reflecting the idea, perfection of forms, which contains pure artistic thoughts.
Only the spirit can enjoy all this.
Thus, the butterfly has no intelligence or spirit, not even smell, the rose was missing after the best.
Her clothes were worth more without end and without purpose.
Then I saw clearly that if the mulch and the Butterfly were essential for Rose, were more indispensable even higher mind, spirit and conscience I understand and admire him.
Apply now and you will recognize my justification parable.
No death was generous of him who, loving life, knows how to give for the triumph of a noble idea, for their country, for the happiness of the beloved.
My itching to get lost in the A, absorbed, impersonal, that everything is itself and nothing is the most monstrous perversion of the spirit.
Is not able to live and enjoy within the various and beautiful universe.
Point the spirit of nature, what can you expect but what and I regret it now? " Or the delusion that nothing takes the principle of being, or the baseness, the lowering the impure rude and brutal appetite for material pleasures, which has won the nature, in society and in every thought, when the spirit leaves them.
In contrast, What value is the spirit that moves away from the real world, believing and worshiping the divine worship to himself?
PROCLEAN .-- I do not want and I can live without you.
These soft white hands (making hers) sealed with love when they meet my eyes to sleep the last sleep.
PROCLEAN .-- There has to be.
Asclepigenia .-- Do not freak out, Proclus.
For something I have to serve.
And starts the spell. (Deep silence.
And asking them to go in the time convenient, everything I can think of.
PROCLEAN .-- Appear gods! (Opens the cloud, and out of her bright Bengal, Pluto, lame, blind and winged, and Apollo, very bizarre and airy, with a purple robe, crown of laurel and lyre in hand.) PROCLEAN .-- What else do you have to ask?
PROCLEAN .-- reflect, however, if something is missing.
Asclepigenia .-- If I am not accused of being overrun beggar and demanding, yet I would ask one thing.
Asclepigenia .-- That you wash.
Possess science, beauty, youth, wealth and even toilet.
I, helpless and needy, far from envy you, rejoice.
PROCLEAN .-- Heaven will reward you, generous Atenais.
Yo, I'm now inspired, I read in the future your eminent destiny.
The younger Theodosius, who educates her sister Pulcheria well, so shine on the imperial throne, will marry you.
So you will be Empress of the East.
Will be happy and powerful without resorting to magic, but will have to make a Christian.
Finally, for that our glory and our happiness are more wonderful and McCabe, after passing chop or fourteen centuries, counting from the day of the date shown on the smiling and fertile Betic cradle of the dynasty and home to your grandfather Theodosius the Great Political and countless other Eminent persons, a witty and truthful writer, which is to write about Tonight's events in a dialogue, where trying to compete with the divine Plato in the high and severe, and the satirist Lucian in the funny and cheerful.
I Atenais .-- Much of idle if your predictions are true.
I fear, however, that this dialogue, which Proclus announces, is a extravaganza without amenities and without liveliness, where we figured, not as real people, but as allegorical characters, where Proclus and I represent the old and corrupt sensual poetry ancient knowledge and exhausted, desperate and barren, that are delivered live together to witchcraft and superstitions.
Atenais .-- If the allegory may have some application when the dialogue is written, perhaps interested in dialogue.
Five of us, mortals and gods, come to the couch, where I have prepared a succulent and spicy dinner.
GOPA PHILOSOPHICAL DIALOGUE IN THREE PICTURES.
The scene is Capilavastu City: 593 years before Christ.
Interior of the magnificent palace of Prince Siddhartha.
House of the thalamus, lit a lamp of gold.
PRATYAPATI .-- The king's servants more vigilant Sudono roam around the palace.
Without it what will of us?
With equal vehemence we love him, though in different ways.
I love him like my son.
When, shortly after giving life, died BU mother Maya Devi, their request was Siddhartha to my care.
They did not want the gods that she lived, so they do not suffer what we have today.
I would have preferred to gods, as he preferred to Nal Damayanti.
Your heart can not be still insatiable in my love.
His noble head never lying still on my breast.
I no longer love.
But love is grief.
Love is devoured, creating in his soul an infinite pity, not condone nor delight, nor joy, nor peace alone.
All the evils of life weigh on your heart, comprising in their affection the lives of the three worlds.
Love, eldest son of nature, by a fatal expansion of its divine essence, be given to that lives, and life was born the pain, poverty, disease and death.
GOPA .-- Why Love created life, and unhappiness with her?
As the spring sun rays as the water flows from the source and flowed and flowed Love life.
Just sublime compassion moved, under superior effort to the human and divine, collecting itself with portentous abstraction, Love achieved also record themselves and give life eternal stillness.
Clap, no doubt, its purpose, I do not understand.
PRATYAPATI .-- To some extent I like him but its purpose is bold, it seems impossible, and bold and impossible not applaud.
If he was called, as he thinks, to be the deliverer of men, I would and would gladly sacrifice a few to do to achieve it.
If you love him as mother, I, as a wife, a woman in love I love him.
This mode of love is less strong, usually the mother's love.
Mother's love is much that is born from the womb and rooted there.
So, not only women but the same fierce love their offspring.
The woman in love with a man when he just loves to love from the heart, does not love you more he loves his mother, but when you love with love the spirit, love you a thousand and a thousand times the most loving mother, she idolizes, he looks like a god, have faith in him, he believed capable of everything great and everything good and thinks that his will, which is law for it must be born a miracle, the good and happiness for all.
I do not know, I do not understand the purpose of Siddhartha, but I know and understand it will be good purpose, and to achieve, if you want.
If by that I do to achieve the greatest sacrifice I am eager to make.
You alone can Prince stop chain with the delight of your affection, but the veneration Prince excites you inspires you to break that chain.
Violence will not be enough to keep him, but if your soft white arms intrigue you, how do you depart from each other to go where dreams that their vocation is calling?
The king puts his hope in you.
Retaining Siddhartha the spell of your love and your beauty.
Do not let him since ....
I will not be staying here.
Courage, Gopa oh! (Goes Pratyapati.) GOPA .-- Encouragement ....
I need to leave from all my courage. (Enter the Prince.
