When you get home again Uncle Manolo to help her jump out and offer cavalierly his arm to climb the ladder.
The brigadier and his son walked back.
V That beautiful lady that enthusiasm to Miguel, the daughter of a family in Seville, as needed goods of fortune as rich in timbres and crests.
The men in this age rarely become prosaic crazy about love and marriage with Angela madness Guevara was not holding a lot of money and good wishes to spend, because this young enlightened, educated in the worship of his race, had it as high concept and was just so full of beauty, elegant wit, clearing and gentleness, that no considered quite sumptuous palace, no throne high enough to contain and sustain such sum of perfections.
His entry into the theaters and rides Sevilla always raised a murmur of admiration from the people, foreigners rushed to ask the natives: - Who is that girl? - Would you like to V, right? - used to answer comical - as have V.
care, because it is not look at me and touches me .-- And it was true: the noble maiden passed many years (to nearly thirty), and nobody dared to look at more than: was a superb figurehead, perhaps the best ornament, except the Giralda, the Guadalquivir bathes city famous, but like that, or even dared the British to take it.
Thus, when the brigadier, surrendered to such beauty, it was decided to seek her hand, he delivered hastily as if a weight that bothered, and did not notice the age difference, or the quixotic figure of the Pretender, or widowhood, or the son who was there in Madrid: it was all nothing compared to the great problem is solved: to marry and live with pomp at the court.
Sevilla whole rejoiced, gave a sigh of relief, exclaiming, Al finally got married!
Here they start the misfortunes of the hero of our story.
As soon as the noble maiden Andalusian stepped thresholds Rivera's house, took the keys to the cabinets and was responsible your address, was kind enough to throw down the gauntlet.
No fuss hypocrites stopped or prepared the ground or let the time elapse even free, as do most part of stepmothers, from the first time reveals that Michael did not like and told him war, at least had the merit of candor.
He took a long time collecting the glove.
The impression that the new mother had produced was too nice to be easily erased, and thought that an angel came from heaven for his home.
Had suddenly exchanged admiration in love, if the gentle lady who had stretched his protecting hand.
But did not happen: the new brigadiera rejected indignantly the stare of adoration Miguel was to move inn touch about it all.
Instead of thanking and feeling flattered, began to cry bitterly in the presence of the servants: "Why look at me So this child? "Miguel did not realize at first that her stepmother gave her pumpkins.
Your child's intelligence could not realize that someone so beautiful who abhor I had not done any harm, and persisted in his platonic love candidly.
But in the end had no choice but to perceive that he declared war, unjust war well indeed and well mixed!
He felt the thorns of that rose splendid, and was confused and embarrassed.
It was a very nervous temperament yours, it could not indifference, or loved or hated.
So, after the surprise, without seeking the reason for this antipathy, lent his love trocose hatred.
And a few days brigadiera Angela, if you wanted to, could see the eyes of Miguel not express any kind of worship.
Kindled more with this ill-will of it, the war broke out with all its horrors, relentlessly and without mercy.
If Michael went for a walk with the groom, the piercing eyes of Andalusian ever discovered around in costume some slick, some seven bad recosido :--«¡ a pious servant Jesus, what child Susie and ma ma naughty!
Brigadier suffered a lot with this unjustified aversion and tried to mitigate it, to no avail.
Relatives, as it took over what had happened, showed much displeasure.
The most indignant was Uncle Manolo :--«¡ The day I see that petenera mistreat my nephew - had that in a certain house, - and not cover their ears with wax will hear wonderful things! " And it happened as planned.
The brigadiera that one did not attempt to do what seemed to him, angrily chided Michael in his presence, and among other insults committed the way of calling bad breed.
Hear this and go crazy Uncle Manolo, was all one, for miracle did not end right there with her sister.
Uncle Manolo breaking out of the cabinet doors and swear.
The beautiful Andalusian achieved shortly after alienating all the relatives of her husband, and what is worse, it hardly deal with them.
Instead they began to frequent the house enough members of the colony Seville Guevara family friends: most ladies and girls.
Among the latter the most intimate and regular population was Lucia, that young blond D.
Manuel de Rivera health Miguel Prado being in their company.
The biographical details he had given to his nephew were accurate.
Lucia had no fortune, lived to adhere to a state pension that paid him for being his father regent of the Audiencia of Puerto Rico.
Connected and related by his mother even with several aristocratic families of Seville and Madrid, enjoyed, but not possess, the Wellness and splendor that the money sought.
Since he had lost his father, his rich relatives had been kind enough to invite her to eat frequently and take theater and walk.
In the seventeen years he also lost his mother and was collected by the Marquis de Cisneros, established closest relatives in Madrid.
As Lucia was a young beautiful, discreet and polite, and as, moreover, had ten or twelve thousand actual orphans, was very light load for those gentlemen, who had only two children and enjoyed good income.
Sevilla had been very close to the Guevara family, and in particular Angelita, though this is the advantage in seven or eight years old at least.
Cooled little separation relations, re-heated as soon as they were in Madrid.
Shortly after arriving at Angela, her friend just left the house but sleeping; or to walk, or a play, or even left out mass together.
Lucia was a blonde of those commonly steamy, clear blue eyes and a little wet smooth white forehead, hair like golden skeins, eyebrows shaped in an arc, something aquiline, thin waist and slender, her face happy and very peaceful.
Her beauty was happy contrast to the brigadiera, perhaps not this was the most solid foundation of friendship.
Lucia was romantic weepy, with touches of writers, friends have dreams and premonitions, very talkative, cunning, and dowsing to explain the mysteries and intricacies of the heart, just ate.
Lucia herself pitied her friend be so ignorant of the ineffable pleasures of poetry and love, and this mutual appreciation and contempt both geniuses agreed and lived alone.
Lucia immediately noticed her friend's dislike for the stepchild, and tried to overcome it gently; they found no basis for it.
Miguel recalled after man's beauty this lady is not impressed him as her stepmother, but the love he showed and genial and expansive nature, they concluded, however, leave you captivated.
One day, just married his father, the two friends chatted while he played in a corner, should refer the conversation to him, because he looked both cases, the mother with severe and scornful eyes, Lucia gently. - Come here, Mickey - suddenly it said.
Miguel went to appeal.
The nice lady I asked a few questions of little substance, and after taking him by the beard and looking intently, said, as if you tie the thread into a conversation started: - Well, this guy is not ugly, Angela!
The brigadiera silent.
Miguel, who already had more insight of what is included, understood who had been his face on the table, and thanked all his life to the lace Seville this good opinion.
Again his new mom, whose antipathy was always increasing, he was punished for breaking play the ball a toilet had given him at his wedding.
Let them fall locked in the room order wardrobe with the servants that under no circumstances give him the tea, and went visiting with her husband.
He arrived a little later Miss Population and learning that no one was home more than Michael, and he plunged into a dark dungeon, was pleased to get it, in spite of warnings from the maids, who feared his wife more than the same demon.
Brought him to the dining room, made of tea and give him and greeted him courteously touched.
From this and other favors was Miguel debtor to this lady while in the parental home and always had them in mind.
In brigadiera he had made up his mind to marry his girlfriend, and marry her advantage.
As Miguel was very young and did not attempt it, he heard several conversations about this point to ever received the name of the boyfriend that her mother intended.
All the kind lady was unsuitable, swore he would marry only when should find the husband she had seen in dreams or at least more than he liked.
This answer the brigadiera that was not silly, it was all heavenly music and the important thing was to get married a man capable of keeping it in the category and welfare had always enjoyed.
Say not cast his flowing blond unheeded advice from his good friend and even that He took advantage.
One year after marrying his wife gave him the brigadier, as a result of blessing, a beautiful girl was christened with the name of Julia, was strengthening disaster for the poor Miguel, although so innocent.
As a star of first magnitude, others dark and irrational rational beings of the house, and became the center of attention and care, and issue all speeches.
In the days following birth Miguel lived completely ignored, making As well he was happy, enjoying a blissful quiet.
Black pupils the brigadiera they soon fall back upon him, and behind those eyes stirred Now a thought so selfish and petty as consistent with our weak nature.
That little boy in front of him was to deprive his beautiful and beloved daughter of one half of fortune at least.
This thought always fixed, always present in the brain is not very strong the brigadiera, exasperate reached the point that soon became the home of monarchy absolute, but discreet, which was, in fierce and insufferable despotism.
The same Brigadier, that had taken great pride in not ever having ruled against existing institutions was on the brink of revolt with all the trimmings, represented by Michael and three or four servants old.
And as the rope breaks always the thinnest, the garrison suffered more in this head set that's worth.
After frequent clashes, ambushes, skirmishes and battles to brigadiera pitched in that he proved to be consummate strategic certainly much higher her husband would not ever mid-general, the three old faithful servers were given the absolute, and Michael ...
it is also given.
Julia had two years or so.
When his father's booming voice of choristers sang with the bass aria or serenade Lucrezia Borgia Faust, she was tender, was beginning to pout, and conclude by mourn frantically not first give the brigadiera preventive voice: "Will you shut up, Fernando?" You can not deny, however, that Julia professed some misconceptions about grammatical rules and the value of words.
For example, what reason could have to call to meat and chicha Tita nanny, naming Felisa?
We fully understand that quis quis say cheese demand: here, at least, there is a real root of the word.
Its views on the instincts and character of domestic animals were equally absurd.
Over unspeakably exaggerating the power and ferocity of the chickens, avoiding them with cries of terror, kept alive and profound sympathy to the cats, which could not destroyed by the frequent scrapes that these ungrateful creatures inflicted on his tender little hands.
At the same more than cats, or perhaps a little higher, Julita placed his brother Michael, who called Michel.
It was a blind affection which he had: the same was him, that his arms are agitated joy, joy sparkled eyes and asked with all the force of his lungs to bring in Michel, or give him to her death.
So I was near, he threw for the hair to mourn him, in admiration, or slime filled his face.
Michael, more gallant than cats, not only kept pulling the hairs with the patience of a martyr, but so eagerly sought the occasion of martyrdom.
With a generosity that there are very few examples in history, not only forgive his sister his fierce caresses but also abuse and tasteless that because it was bound to suffer.
Because brigadiera could not bear with patience this sympathy, is angry with his daughter when asked to bring him to Michael without delay, and more when he, on his own initiative, the came to give her a kiss.
Teníale formally prohibited from taking on arms, play with it, and general approach when you will not send, but we Miguel, braving the wrath of the brigadiera few times, and laughing at his watch, spent time with her, making antics to see laughing, or stroking good.
One morning, Julia was very sprawled on his cot, staring at the ceiling.
The nanny had left her alone by going to frolic in the kitchen.
His face gave a severity unusual, his eyes motionless, static, her lips folded reflection signal, hands resting quietly on his belly.
From time to time up a little hand and snapped the tongue, which he stated his profound melancholy meditation said sometimes low and husky voice: "Upa, upa!" Carried away by the whirlwind of ideas very sad, no doubt had completed to mourn and cry out desperately, if the environment a little view of the door had not seen in her beautifully groomed hair and his brother Miguel. - Michel, Michel! - Said out of his stupor painful and it's arms extending toward naked.
Miguel went to her looking all around like a thief who fears being caught.
Al were instantly confused the two in a tight embrace, which was Miguel hug completely disheveled, his face full of slime and no tie.
Julita the sign waving triumph.
The boy, who had suffered all too eagerly that asease the maid, now allowed very accommodating to her sister unkempt, and bringing her lips, asked softly: - Say, do you want, sweetie?
The girl turned to throw the hair and face sobarle the faith of eternal love. - Who do you love more, me or Tita? - Michel, Michel - Julita said, bringing to him and giving him an angry punch in the neck.
And not content with this clear demonstration continued with emphasis: - Tita feya ...
Miguel alienated passionately kissed his sister's arms.
Having acquiesced Julita with a dozen nods, the boy began to appear that he ate the arms, face, chest, legs, in short, all the tiny person.
The girl breaks into joy at being devoured by such a gentle way. - Would you like more?
Julia wanted to eat it up no trace of her.
The tiger, so was completed, he rested a few moments on the same pillow of his victim.
Is still tore the breast meat by the handful to offer it. - Listen, Julita, how does a cat? - Mau Mau! - Ca!
Otherwise, you'll like it.
And getting on all fours, began to spin around the room, throwing such and so true meows, which was suspended and static Julita, believing themselves to have before and actually an individual of the feline race.
As there was something to pass such a timely opportunity to make to know their benevolent feelings toward this family, said with deep conviction: - Mamo, apo.
Michael came triumphantly to her, and kissed her. - You want water, Monin? - Asked suddenly.
We do not know what kind of reasons have led Michael to provide water as spontaneously his sister.
Whatever they want, the truth is that like I could not refuse him anything, he accepted the offer.
But when serving good Miguel, dropped into the cradle the glass full.
The girl was three times as many to mourn and to laugh, he finally decided on the latter, finding very funny, but too humid, the joke of his brother.
To reward tolerance, it became to make the cat even more will and skill.
After imitated dog and donkey less than moderately.
Finally, wanting to end in a dignified and brilliant zoological work, proposed to make the chicken.
All antipathies, terrors and resentments Julita awoke to hear this unfortunate name. - No. ..
But Miguel, drawn from the desire to show off their skills in this new year, would not meet the refusal, and began to cluck a great time in all the treble and bass.
The artist he stood looking somewhat sulky despised their efforts. - Upa, upa - the girl said after a pause, tending to Miguel's arms. - No, do not get up, that scolds mom. - Valiente thing that matters to me mama fight! - Said the girl, that is, should say, in fact did nothing but repeat a gesture that resulted in reply: - Upa, upa!
The thought of his stepmother gave him goose bumps.
The servants came, and the doorman, and neighbors, and Street municipal police, and medical-aid, and the guard of Principal Artillery and police force, and what is even more frightening than this ...
came the brigadiera.
VI So it was that big dirty inside and out, teaching and food that was corresponded very well with the locals.
The founder and director of the institution was a excoronel Andalusian artillery and Guevara family friend, which is why Michael had gone to there with their bones.
The colonel just called D.
Jaime, had left the body on a matter of honor that theirs had not been sure footing, had some words with another officer of engineers, sponsors were appointed, and when it was formalized during the challenge, our D.
Jaime was bailed and given every satisfaction, the gunners were offended a lot with this behavior, stopped to greet, and the colonel was forced out to seek the absolute
