And in deference to the interests of my neighbor, we spent the rest of the night in white, with torn ears and looking forward to the dawn, finally appeared.
But we did not hurry, because we decided to make that day a day short, to give rest to the ladies and children.
I will not forget a little girl of 7 years Panama, that a gentleman had to Bogota to give to their parents.
Quiet, smiling always a mule trepadita capricious, made all the running without showing the slightest fatigue.
In the only head wearing a straw hat, narrow wings.
In the hard times of noon when the sun beat down, burning the skull protected by Helmuth, used approach her. "What do we, my dear?" - Very good, sir .-- Are not you tired, does not an umbrella? - No, sir, thanks .-- The mule is a good way .-- And I saw the poor creature shake the chair to drive the mules trotted possessed!
Can the misfortunes of Life down on this girl, I said, find someone to talk.
It was out of Consuelo when we realized the place where we were and its great beauty.
At the back, wide tape and bright Magdalena, extending as far as the eye could see, the front, a series of stunning mountains and bleak.
This was a violent mix of alpine vegetation and lush tropical flowering.
Costeábamos a narrow mountain path practiced in its flank.
On the left, the abyss, guessed right, but seen through the eyes.
Trees, to ground your logs back in the lost fund, raised their glasses to us, mingled and formed a broad united and impenetrable canopy.
Suddenly, a playful waterfall down the mountain and went to feed the imperceptible thread of water in the valley that wound.
That section of road is perhaps the most comfortable, but a few extremely steep slopes and extreme fatigue in the painful position to be preserved on the mule, the greatest part of the route is well preserved.
From 11 am, the sun began to bother strongly, the animals are reluctant, the view is fatigue with the constant distant reverberation and a relentless thirst begins to devour.
We approached one or two huts found in traffic, but the good women who occupied invited us to drink the water we asked and we would be harmful.
That was when we went to the juice, cane juice, slightly fermentation, which is a healthy drink and supportive.
From there we master the beautiful valley of Guaduas (reeds), the most picturesque I've found my path and in the center of its whiteness shines the village that bears his name.
Is that one of the most exclusive areas of Colombia coffee cultivation, whose red grain, standing out among the green foliage of the extensive coffee around us, gave animation to the landscape.
Guaduas coffee, like other Colombia also reputed points, is infinitely better than the brands listed trade.
Distinguishes it as the Yungas, a unique flavor, but has no perfume Moca unsurpassed.
I think a mixture of three parts of Moca Guaduas and make a drink able to shake the old Voltaire in his grave.
Another feature of the valley are the canes that have given the name.
Some reach for many feet tall with a diameter of 20 to 25 centimeters.
The Indians used for their resistance and weight, to make the stretcher on the shoulders carrying anything that can not be driven by a mule, such as pianos, mirrors, machinery, furniture, etc.
Each step we encounter caravans of Indian carriers, leading the eternal piano.
Rare is the home of Bogotá, which does not, even the most humble.
Hunched, sweaty, leaning on the great sticks that serve to hold the piano in his moments of rest, these poor Indians climb slopes with an inclination almost impossible for the mule.
In such cases, the burden falls on the four back, it is necessary relieve every five minutes.
Sometimes the forces are exhausted, the piano comes to the ground and is in the middle of the road.
No one touches them, and there is no example that has lost only one of these tanks delivered general good faith.
Many times we heard the guttural cry of a pig driver pushing his flock to forward.
With all latching conversation curious feature: usually go barefoot, but have at the waist, by way of a dagger, a brand-new pair of sandals.
In addition, the flank, the eternal comb, the knife of our gauchos, long blade, flat and sharp.
The appearance of these men, covered with dust and sweat, half-naked, unkempt, hoarse by the continuous production a guttural cry, rough and intense, it is really wild.
They are humble and patient .-- Good day, friend .-- Good morning, your worship .-- What part is? - Del Tolima (or many ).--¿ Antioch brings day trip? - Thirty (or forty ).--¿ passed Magdalena Where? - Facing Ambalema (Oaa Nare, etc.).
Rude people, hardworking, patient, that Indian fatalism, more intense and quiet that Arabic will be an element of rapid progress in Colombia the day land are located in its European industries.
But above all, we must uproot the Indian habit of chicha, fatal fermentation of corn, which eventually constant use brain atrophy.
In Bogotá I noticed with astonishment the sparkling vivacity of the cachifos Street (urchins), which answers nothing desmerecerían the occurrence of a gamin of Boulevard.
Meanwhile, adult children have the appearance and spirit dead dull.
The ravages of chicha are terrible, particularly women, always clustered in door of the filthy warehouses where the drink is sold fatal.
Bloated, dirty, hesitant in the march, even the young people have the appearance of a premature decrepitude.
Wormwood, slow poison given at least some artificial excitement, the chicha enbrutece like opium ...
Here we are at last in the beautiful Hotel del Valle, located at the entrance of the village and only Guaduas decent shelter across the road from Honda to Bogotá.
There are, however, many people and it is necessary content with little.
We spent the whole day, because he had firmly decided not to part of my fellow travelers.
And are good friends with Mimi and Dizzy, and Little Georgy begins to stretch out his little arms.
The third day we undertake as usual, at eight o'clock, having given appointment for six, is also very short, since we stop at Villeta, where we will arrive at three in the afternoon.
It was, however, extremely hard, because the temperature in Guaduas was delicious, rose steadily as we descended to the bottom of a funnel in which Villeta is located.
This decrease endless, along a stone walkway that destroyed becomes impossible, the sun that beat down, the mule, tired, walking slowly claiming the the tips of loose stones, all began to give us fever.
In addition, we saw Villeta there in the background, almost at hand, such was the effect of perspective, and marched after the village it seemed as we drove away.
As the path is narrow, there is not even the appeal of the conversation, it is necessary to go one by one.
At the time I write these lines, though far from my land, I see and mules in the future of my life.
Heaven only knows the pilgrimages that still await me, but will never be a spontaneous act of my will to return to climb up on a mule.
Every time in my long rail travel, when after twenty or thirty hours of immobility, there is no position and come into my mind that a bad mood we all know, I have only to remember the mule ...
The one I had at that time was detestable, reluctant, sluggish, with a limp possessed.
And with a custom of the most enjoyable.
As the path is narrow, as I said, every time he comes in the opposite direction a lowering of mules loaded precautions are endless, so as not to shatter knees to the ribs or not to go to the abyss.
Well, my mule was in the habit of approaching, of shaking from all congeners was in its path.
Not scarce reprimands; but the victim was me, that his legs and arms dislocated.
The pack mules, rendered by a grueling climb, was thrown to the ground immediately to the carriers, that guided walk and cry, give the halt.
So when my friend Soffia Chilean poet who represents his country in Colombia, came to Honda, given its substantial and more security, was given a sturdy mule, which, without any discrimination between a drawer ware and a diplomat, was put to the ground in the event that the rider's stopped, so no contributed to this, increase the charm of travel.
Villeta local authorities, with some kind neighbors who had joined, left to greet us and lead us to the hotel.
Fortunately for me, told me that a friend had prepared me accommodation in a private home.
I started out, only, to prepare lunch in Chimborazo.
At the time of road, the mule I was definitely tired, neither spur nor whip were sufficient.
I was in unknown territory at the foot of a slope with an inclination absurd.
Fifteen minutes later, a few pebbles that rolled, I said someone down the slope.
Soon appeared an Indian riding a horse chestnut, skinny, but slim legs and nervous.
I stood in the way and my twenty paces intrigued man paused, obviously for my dress in those exotic places.
Had not yet Colombia travel suit, later I adopted for convenience.
A quarter of those officers English used in India, a poncho over guanaco (the loving companion who accompanied me Mendoza to Chile and now has fallen to the humble couvrepieds functions in the railways) grenadiers and boots were my toilette of the moment.
The Indian opened his eyes when heard out of the bottom of this apparition in a voice that spoke Spanish quite clearly, to make him understand that my humble desire to change my mule was tired from his horse fresh.
I do not know if it would come to the crime, if the man resists, but, at least, was ready for every sacrifice.
Is another privileged regions for coffee.
Just wearing a bag with my roles and values.
It is an unparalleled delight that comes undone by the passage of the mule.
Not suit me, because I had everything I wanted.
Retrace my path, I asked everywhere, no one had seen; really uneasy, I paused to reflect on the party to take, when an Indian I spent suggested the likelihood that the cachifo had taken the low road, which greatly shorten the distance.
Printing is deep by contrast, in vain, the spirit is ready, the fact surpasses all expectation
