For Dona Luisa, the French nation was Lourdes.
In discussions with her sister and other foreign ladies calling for the extermination of France for his wickedness, the good lady summed up his opinion always with the same words: "When Madonna wanted to appear in our times, chose to France.
Do not be so bad this country as they say ...
When I see that appears in Berlin, will discuss again. " But Desnoyers was not to recall the naive views of his mother.
No sooner had installed in his hotel by the river, ran to the great inn converted into a hospital.
Guardians told him that until the afternoon I could not talk with the director.
To entertain his impatience walked down the street that leads to the basilica, all of huts and tents with pictures and memories pious, that make it a long bazaar.
The coats were dirty, in spite of repeated brushings.
The mud, blood, rain, had left indelible marks on them, giving them a stiff cardboard.
Some wounded tore the sleeves, to prevent cruel to rub his arms broken.
Others sported pants still tear the helmet shell.
Were all arms and fighters of various races, infants, horsemen, artillery, soldiers of the metropolis and the colonies, French farmers and African sharpshooters; heads blondes Mohammedan pale faces and black faces of Senegal, with fiery eyes and lips bluish showing a good-natured air obesity and sedentary bourgeois suddenly become a warrior, others lean, nervous, aggressive profile, as men born to fight and alien armies in the field.
The city visited to impulses of hope for the sick of seeing invaded Catholicism now a crowd no less painful, but dressed in carnival colors.
All in spite of his physical despair, they had an air of ease and satisfaction.
Had seen near death, slipping between his bony claws, and found a new flavor to the joy of living.
With their cloaks decorated with medals, their theatrical alquiceles, his kepi and African hats, the crowd gave heroic but a sorry.
Very few preserved in her the noble upright, pride of human superiority.
Others were left lying on push carts that had been used many times to lead the sick pious from the station to the grotto of the Virgin.
Some walked to the blind, with eyes sale together with a child or a nurse.
The first shock in Belgium and in the East, media dozen battles, had sufficed to produce such physical ruins, which appeared manly beauty with the most horrible outrages ...
These organisms stubbornly insisted to survive, walking in the sun its resurgent energy, represented only a tiny part of the great harvest of death.
Behind them were thousands and thousands of comrades mourning beds in hospitals and may not ever be lifted.
Thousands and thousands were forever hidden in the bowels of the earth is wet slime dying, land fatal to receive a shower of missiles returned as a crop scrub crosses.
The war was the sight of Desnoyers with all its cruel hideousness.
Had talked about it until then as we talk of death to full health, knowing that it exists and is horrible, but seeing so far ...
Explosions of the shells was accompanied by his brutality shredder with a fierce derision, grotesquely disfiguring the human body.
He saw wounded began to regain its vital force and were only sketches men, horrible cartoons, human rags saved from the grave for the daring of science head backs with crawling on the floor on a wheeled base, incomplete skulls with brains beat in a covered artificial beings without arms and legs resting on the bottom of a carretoncillo as sketches or sculptural pieces dissection, showing faces without noses, like the skulls, the black cavity his nostrils.
And these half men talked, smoked, laughed, pleased to see the sky, to feel the caress of the sun, to be back into existence, encouraged by the sovereign will of living that you forget this misery confident waiting for something better.
The young man saw in his imagination the globe like a huge ship sailing by the immensity.
Did not even know what was under her feet, deep ship.
Occupy the largest area to sunlight was the desire of each group.
Men taken by these bodies pushed over to extermination, to climb the last bridge the helm, giving the ship a certain course.
And all these ambitions they felt by command knew all the same ...
None of them could say with certainty what beyond the horizon was visible, nor where they ran the ship.
The silent hostility mystery to all around them, his life was fragile, needed constant care to keep; and in spite of this, the crew, for centuries, had not had a moment agreement, common good, clear reason.
Periodically, one half of it clashed with the other half, was killed by slave on the cover shifting, floating over the abyss; struggled to throw one another off the ship, in the wake of the ship was covered with corpses.
And the crowd in complete dementia still murky Sophists emerged to declare that was perfect, so everyone should continue forever, and it was a bad dream wish The crew was mirasen as brothers who follow a common destiny and look around them the wiles of a mystery aggressive ...
Were Muslims, handles Algeria and Morocco.
Were in Lourdes as they could be elsewhere, only attentive to the gifts of civil people, who followed with patriotic tenderness.
Blessed war that allowed them to approach and touch these white women, perfumed and smiling as they appear in dreams females paradise reserved for the blessed! "Madama ...
Madama ", sighed, towns at the same time her eyes flare cartridges.
And not content with his hand, his claws dark ventured along the arm while ladies laughed at this worship trembling.
Other advanced through the crowd offering his right hand to all women. "Let us touch his hand." And they walked away satisfied after receiving the grip.
Desnoyers long roamed the area around the basilica.
Under the trees trucks were in rows occupied by the wounded.
Officers and soldiers remained long hours in the blue shadow spent watching other comrades who could make use of their legs.
The holy cave glowed with hundreds of candles flaring.
The crowd devout, kneeling outdoors, fixed his eyes pleading in the sacred stones, while his thoughts flew away, to the battlefields, with confidence in the divinity accompanies all uneasiness.
Mass kneeling soldiers emerged with bandages on his head, The kepi in one hand and tearful eyes.
For the double staircase ascending and descending the basilica women dressed in white, a tremor of play that gave by far the appearance of doves fluttering.
Were nurses, Ladies of Charity guiding the footsteps of the wounded.
Marguerite Desnoyers thought he recognized in each of them.
But the disillusionment that followed these discoveries to him doubt the success of your trip.
Neither was in Lourdes.
Never be in this enlarged France disproportionately by the war, which had become each stock in a hospital.
In the afternoon, his findings were no better success.
They were concerned by the announcement of a new train health.
Continued the great battle near Paris.
Accommodations had to improvise the new batch of shredded meat.
Desnoyers returned to the field near the grotto.
Pau thought back to that night, nothing was left to do in Lourdes. "Where would lead then your research? ...
Suddenly he felt a shiver along his back: the same indefinable feeling warned that her presence as they gathered in a garden in Paris.
Margarita was to appear suddenly as before, but he certainly knew where it came from, as if it emerges from the earth or descended from the clouds.
To turn head recognized the falsehood of their hope.
No one followed his steps: he was the only marching through the center of the avenue.
Rested on a bench officer immediately blindfolded.
Desnoyers was going to go ahead, but a flick of the woman in target, a visible desire to pass unnoticed, to hide his face turning his eyes towards plants, attracted his attention.
Two curls leaning on the edge of touch hair made him guess the hidden, the white-clad feet were indications to reconstitute the body somewhat disfigured by a uniform without coquetry.
The face was pale, grave.
Nothing remained to him of old cosmetics, giving him a childish beauty wrist.
His eyes seemed to reflect what exists in new forms in the bottom of a halo fatigue dark ...
She was concerned to see that Desnoyers one step ahead.
His eyes, his hands, his whole body seemed to protest, repel their advance, lock in immobility.
Fear it approaches the march was to him.
Said a few words to the military, which continued in the receiving bank on the bandage his face a ray of sunshine that seemed not to feel.
Then he got up, going to meet July and continued, indicating with a gesture that is located further away, where the wounded would not listen.
Stopped its passage in a side path.
From there I could see the blind man in their custody.
Desnoyers meant many things, many!
but hesitated not knowing how words take their complaints, their pleas, their praise.
Above this avalanche of thoughts emerged one, fatal, dominant and angry. - Who is this man? ...
The rancorous tone, the harsh voice that spoke these words, he was surprised, as if they came another mouth.
The nurse looked at him with limpid eyes, enlarged, serene, eyes that seemed free forever the contractions of surprise and fear.
The answer slipped with that look very clean. - It Laurier ...
Was aviejado with tanned complexion and a bronze color streaked converging cracks like spokes around all openings in his face.
The hair began to whiten in temples and beard covering his cheeks now.
He had lived twenty years in a month ...
At the same time looked younger, with a vigorous youth radiated inside with the force of a soul that has suffered the most violent emotions and can no longer meet the fear, strong and serene satisfaction of accomplishment.
He was ashamed to realize the distaste he felt for this man in full disgrace and I could not see around him.
His hatred was cowardly, but he insisted, as if he had awakened inside another soul, a second personality that caused her fear.
He had not looked so ever.
He knew all love the gradations of his eyelids, but his eyes the wounded was something different, something that he had not seen before.
He spoke to the fury of a lover who discovers an infidelity. - And so you left without warning, without a word! ...
You abandoned me to come in search it ...
She did not flinch at his tone angry and hostile stares. - I came because this was my duty.
Then he spoke as a mother who takes a break from surprise to irascible child advise sanity.
Had received the news of the wound Laurier when she and her mother were preparing to leave Paris.
He did not hesitate a moment: the obligation was run alongside this man.
He had thought long and hard in recent weeks.
War had made him reflect on the value of life.
His eyes looked for new horizons; our destiny is not in the selfish pleasure and satisfaction: pain and we must slaughter.
I wanted to work for their country, pay some joint pain, serve as the other women, and being willing to give all their care to strangers, was not natural preferring this man who had caused so much damage? ...
His memory was still living in the moment they saw him arrive at the station all alone among the many that had the consolation of loving arms to go looking for death.
His shame was even more intense hearing of his misfortune.
He had lost one eye completely; the other doctors kept him without vision, hoping to save it.
But she doubted it was almost Laurier surely be blind.
Margaret's voice trembled as he said this, as if to mourn, but his eyes remained dry.
They felt the irresistible urge to tears.
She had treated you so far, for fear of being heard and for maintaining distance, as if speaking with a friend.
But the sadness of her lover ended his coldness. - No, I love thee ...
I'll love you forever.
The simplicity of this and said his sudden familiarity reassure Desnoyers. - What about the other? - Asked anxiously.
Upon hearing his reply felt something had passed before the sun, watching momentarily light
