His bosses know how to appreciate ...
It is young people who come to the higher grades, such as generals of the Revolution ...
He had filled in the blanks with their names and qualities and at the foot containing the signatures of two residents of the rue de la Pompe: A bartender and a friend the concierge.
The district police commissioner guaranteed to seal section and responsibility of these honorable witnesses.
To move to the good lady, did report their impressions.
I had seen in broad daylight a flock of sheep on the boulevard, next to the gate of the Magdalena.
His steps were awake in many streets echo of the dead cities.
Their military memorabilia, cheered him as murmurs of glory. - I've seen over the Moroccan ...
I've seen the Zouaves car.
The same night that Julio had left for Bordeaux, he wandered until dawn, following a flood line halfway across Paris, from the Lion of Belfort to the Gare de l'Est.
Twenty thousand men, with all his campaign material, from Morocco, had landed in Marseilles and arrived at the capital, part of the journey by rail and another on foot.
Came to intervene in the great battle was beginning.
Troops were composed of Europeans and Africans.
The vanguard, on entering the door of Orleans, began gymnastic step, and half through Paris to the Gare de l'Est, where they hoped trains.
The neighborhood saw spahis squads of theatrical uniforms, mounted on their horses nervous and thin, yellow-turbaned Moroccans shooters, shooters Senegalese black face and red cap, gunners colonial African hunters.
They were professional fighters, soldiers in peacetime living fighting in the colonies, energetic profiles, faces tanned, eyes of prey.
The long parade was immobilized on the streets for hours To allow time for settling into the train the forces that went before ...
And Argensola had followed this armed mass from the boulevards and motionless at the door of Orleans, speaking with the officers, hearing the cries of the warriors naive Africans who had never seen Paris and crossed it without curiosity, wondering where the enemy was. - Arrived in time to attack von Kluck on the banks of Oureq, driven back on pain of being involved.
She did not foresee was that his trip Argensola night along the corps had been accompanied by the gentle person inside and two friends more, enthusiastic group and generous handing out flowers and kisses to the soldiers, tanned, laughing at the astonishment with which I showed her white teeth.
Another day, had seen the most extraordinary events of the war.
All cars rent, about two thousand vehicles, loading battalions of Zouaves, to eight men for carriage and going at full speed, bristling with guns and red caps.
Formed on the boulevards a picturesque procession, a kind of endless wedding.
And the soldiers descended from the car in the same room for the battle, firing and jumping off the bracket.
All men who knew how the gun Gallieni had launched against the extreme right of the enemy in the supreme moment when victory was still uncertain and could smallest weight decide.
Scribes of military offices, ordinances, individuals from the police, gendarmes, everyone had left for the final push, forming a heterogeneous mass of colors.
And on Sunday afternoon, when his three companions to "place" was sunbathing in the Forest Bologna among thousands of Parisians learned from the special papers the fighting that had developed near the city and was going away was a great battle, a victory. - I've seen much, Madame Desnoyers ...
And she approved: yes I had seen Argensola ...
He was the friend his son and was accustomed to his requests.
Times had changed, Don Marcelo was now a boundless generosity ...
July he was appointed its director.
The shift of America had been recognized by the Bank as a deposit amount, and could have a both percent, according to the decrees on the moratorium.
Her friend sent a check provided I needed money for the upkeep of the house.
He had never been in a situation as well off.
The war also has its good ...
But with the desire not be lost morality, announced it would rise again by the back stairs to take a basket of bottles ...
Doña Luisa, after the departure of his sister, went alone to the churches, until suddenly was seen with an unexpected partner. - Mom, I'm with you ...
And did not encourage the house with loud and manly joy, no longer threatened the enemy with stabs imaginary.
She was pale, sad, with eyes of blue haloed.
Bowed head as if gravitas across his forehead, a block of serious thoughts, completely new.
Doña Luisa in the church watched with jealous spite.
Her eyes were moist, as than she prayed fervently, as she ...
but it was probably his brother.
Another man in distress filled his mind.
The last Lacour was no longer a simple soldier and was in Paris.
I had not seen more than smoke, burned houses, killed and wounded.
The delicacy and Republican Prince elegance seemed to irritate them.
Vehemently, threw her arms around his neck, blind and insensible to everything that was not him. - Takes ...
Planted two kisses on her face violent, loud, aggressive.
II In the study When you open a door later, Argensola stood motionless, as if the surprise would have nailed their feet on the ground.
An old man greeted him with a friendly smile. - I am the parent of July.
And he went forward with the confidence of a man who knows perfectly where you are.
Fortunately, the painter was alone and did not need to run from one side to another hiding the vestiges of a good company.
It took some time to recover from his emotion.
I had heard much of Don Marcelo and temper, which caused him great anxiety appear unexpectedly in the studio ...
He had long since aviejado beginning of the war.
No longer to the gesture of tenacity and humor that seemed to repel evil unto the nations.
His eyes shone with a childish joy, his hands trembled slightly; his back hunched.
Argensola, who had fled always find him in the street and experienced greatest fears to climb the back stairs of his home, now felt a sudden confidence.
It was not enough letters of July: I needed to see their former home, rubbing all objects that had surrounded him, breathing the same air, talking to the young man who was his intimate partner.
Painter noticed parental eyes ... "An interesting young man this Argensola." And to think this did not remember the times she had called "rogue" without knowing, just because accompanied his son into a life of reproach.
Desnoyers's gaze wandered with delight by the study.
The memory made things easy I had bought in his life, in spite of being so.
Her eyes now sought the personal, I could evoke the image of the absent.
And the tables were set just outlined, unfinished studies that filled the corners.
Many of the paintings belonged to Argensola, but the latter, influenced the emotion of the old, showed great generosity.
Yes, all of July ...
And the father was from painting to painting, pausing with a look of admiration at the sketches more reports, as if sensing her confusion in the disordered visions of genius. - You have talent, right? - Asked, pleading a favorable word -.
I've always believed intelligent ...
Some Devil, but the character changes over the years ...
And almost wept to hear how the Spanish, with all the vehemence of his verbosity early enthusiasm, extolled the absent, describing him as a great artist that astonished the world when you arrive on time.
The painter of souls at the end he was so moved as the father.
Don Marcelo grabbed his hand as a partner.
Your child's friends were his friends.
If you ever had a trouble, if I needed a pension to keep painting, he was there, eager to help.
For now, we hoped to eat at home that night, and if I wanted to go every night, much better.
Eat with your family, modestly, the war had changed the customs, but would be in the privacy of a home, as if you were at the home of his parents.
Even spoke of Spain, to be more pleasing to the artist.
Had only been there once, briefly, but after the war thought go everywhere.
Argensola suspected of belonging it to another nation, the old man would also praised.
This affection was not a reflection of the love of his absent son, but he was grateful.
The painter had to recommend to the friends a good walk after lunch, refraining from appearing in the rue de la Pompe before night fell.
They were perhaps friends of his son, were a part of his past, and this was enough to believe in these great qualities that made them interesting
