Venturita drove around all day about his mother, waiting for a chance to talk without witnesses.
At dusk, when the seamstress went, mother and daughter were alone at last.
Cecilia had retired to her room dominated by the sadness that had veiled to work during the day.
Dona Paula was sitting in an armchair with eyes on the balcony, picking up the last rays of the dying light in melancholic and reflective attitude, rare in it.
Venturita put the racks in a corner and covered them with a cloth, arranged the chairs and drag Shopping at the side seam not to hinder. - Tell them to bring light - said Dona Paula. - Why? - Said the girl sitting on a low chair beside her .-- It is done.
His mother returned to squint to the balcony and was in the same melancholy attitude.
After a few moments of silence, Venturita took his hand and led her tenderly to his lips.
Dona Paula turned her head in surprise.
Seldom, if ever, his youngest daughter will had given the respectful kiss.
She smiled sweetly and took his chin between his fingers, he said: - Are you happy with the dress? - Yes, mom. - It makes a very nice body.
Rest assured that Cecilia Gonzalo does not want. - Do you know what you're saying, stupid?
My daughter despises and Gonzalo and the Prince of Asturias, you know ...
I learn what you just said, and if it is true, and I'll take my measurements.
Dona Paula was naturally kind and gentle, kind to the poor and generous, but had unthinking arrogance and exaggerated susceptibility of Sarrió artisans. - No, Mom, is not it.
And if you want to convince, learn ...
Pulled chest while carrying a letter prevention, and handed.
Venturita picked up a box of matches was on sewing, and ignited a.
Mother and daughter were pale.
It pulled the letter to light.
As read a few lines, dropped into his chair and staring with painful expression on her daughter, said - Ventura, what have you done? - Me?
Nothing - said the girl pulling the ground that the match drew to a close. - Is that all you like, crazy, prevent the marriage of your sister, miserably deceive, to a scandal in the village and never be seen? - I have not done anything like that.
You consent to speak otherwise than as a sister, was to betray your sister and make you very little favor. - Well, is - said the girl scornfully. - I do not be - Dona Paula replied angrily and rising .-- What have you proposed, we, di? ...
Your sister's marriage will be undone ...
or put it even more down home ...!
First, you're a brat that you should be playing with dolls and being whipped ...
and although it is not, nor your father nor I could agree that you married a man who has miserably deceived your sister and has fooled us all ...
The next day, Gonzalo received a letter from her, saying: "Yesterday I spoke with Mom.
Be confident. " And indeed, that morning mother and daughter returned to have spoken in the last quarter.
Was long, and do not know what it happened.
Dona Paula came after an hour with his eyes red to mourn, touching his heart, which often suffered in the direction to his room and lay down.
Ventura went after her, calm, but pale.
Called Generosa, confidant, and gave him a message for Gonzalo.
This, at nine o'clock at night, was walking front of the house Belinchón.
The recipe can not be more effective. - What recipe? - The one I used ...
The thing had become so ugly that was already decided that you do not come back closer to home.
I sent them to Tejada as a punishment.
Neither supplications nor reasons were worth anything.
even if he is a bit strong - adding in voice low and upset. - What resource? - Gonzalo asked curiously.
Venturita was silent a few moments.
I told you and I could not get married less than now. - What then? - Well ...
Indeed, Gonzalo guessed and experienced a feeling of disgust and fear.
Stubbornly silent for some time.
Venturita finally asked: - Have you been happy? - Yes - said dryly. - For dispensing, boy ...
Tomorrow I will say that everything was a lie ...
What I think evil is the result, as you understand, but it has left that from you. - More than I miss you. - By the same token I'm sorry! - Well, give expressions - harshly replied getting up from the windowsill, where she sat.
Gonzalo reached out through the bars, and held by the dress. - Wait.
The fabric rustled. - You've already broken the dress, see? - If you do not shoot as soon ...
And getting catch by the arm, forced her to sit. - Good lord! - Said the girl laughing .-- It must be love bears. - Do you love me? - Gonzalo said laughing too. - No. - Yes. - No. - Give me the hand of friendship.
The girl held out her white and delicate hand, and kissed her youth Herculean passion repeated times. - See you tomorrow.
I'll give you news of what happens - said rising again.
The four steps occur to him that the news had to be a reference Cecilia received by way of his disloyal conduct, and his brow furrowed again with painful expression.
A round with this concern crossed distracted Rúa Nueva, entered the plaza of the Navy walked along the pier and was extended to the tip of the Pawn.
The stars twinkled in the sky ripples on the calm waters Bay.
The rigging of ships in it stood out quite clearly the dark blue background.
Had not yet sounded the cry of "apafogones" and they felt in some lights and some movement.
The sailors, leaning on the bulwarks, chatted before retreat to the cabin.
From time to time, facing a large English steamer anchored in the middle screamed one: "All right" exaggerating the pronunciation: "all right", answered a tender.
The cry was repeated in all the schooners, and quechemarines pataches.
But the big steamer remained silent, nodding phlegmatically with that contempt so deep that no one better than a child knows Albion affected.
At the tip of Pawn stumbled as he took the little walker that was cool.
It was one of the hottest nights in August.
Gonzalo, tormented by heat and by the idea its compromised situation, he walked with his hat in his hand.
Before reaching the end the pier, saw on the second wall a gigantic figure. - There is my uncle - he said.
The old sailor spent much of his life on that wall, in intimate conversation with the sea, his former friend and companion.
For him there was the terrible secrets Ocean, now slept quietly in his huge bed of sand, now wake up to the sky spitting mad its foam.
Could provide new safe and anticipated their anger, their faintness, their smiles, in their deepest heart palpitations.
The monster opened its liquid heart, as loyal confidant, told how he was bored in his prison of granite, and what you feel like rushing Sometimes, witnessing the outrages of men to rush on earth, and sweep once this foul nest.
And the good gentleman would reply, thinking of the crime that had just read: - You're right, comrade, I, in your case, you may do so.
For all the world would Don Melchor to give their morning walks, evening and night the tip of the Pawn.
In his wife's life when he was a cold, could be seen pointed to dispense of these visits, and was what troubled him.
Now, unfortunately, did not have anyone holding him, a cold and everything went. - For colds, there's nothing like the fresh air of the sea.
When from time to time suffered from the stomach, drank a couple glasses of brine, and was fixed. - No bleed so natural, so effective and harmless as seawater.
I once suffered from a leg.
Doctors, not only gave up for lost leg, but feared for his life.
Evicted and had the audacity to take him to the beach and bathe.
For the nine bathrooms, the ulcers were closed.
Imagine what they think after this, the healing power of the sea.
The air of the river made him hoarse.
The humidity was rheumatic pains.
The fog choked him and put him asthmatic.
It was that air in them "encallejonado" he inspired an untold loathing and contempt.
Don Melchor slept little.
He got up with stars, and as he rose up to the lookout, scanned the sky and sea, and after drawing in the head a state weather provisional day, down to fix definitively the end of the Pawn.
Provided there than once if the wind was simple vahajillo filed or if the star was frankly or inclined to the fourth quadrant, if the face was haze or closed, if the sea was minced or milk, how long would all this, what wind would point at noon, if the sea ??would be thick in the afternoon or abonanzaría, etc., etc.
I could not take the chocolate if I had not made such comments.
And indeed, although this seems a hobby, téngola for less foolish than up of bed to scrutinize the face of the neighbor, if it is clean or dirty, happy or loom blurry if you eat or fast, whether sleeping or sailing, whether strike or work, how long it stays at home and what course to take when you leave.
Gonzalo moved into second wall with an irresistible desire to relieve the chest, and make his uncle aware of what was happening.
And why the sudden and severe condition it did not fit very romantic confidences.
Don Melchor, with the weight of the years used to bend a little body forward, seeing the approach of a man to him, he straightened up.
Because the effort was that nobody had noticed for its decline and her male deputy impregnable. - Is that you, Gonzalillo? - The same, man. - Miracle!
You like to see more balls rolling waves ivory. - No, today I have not played billiards.
and wanted to talk to you are a serious matter, to see what he advises.
Don Melchor looked at him with surprise. - A serious matter? - Yes ...
Let's see, man: you would marry a woman who would not? - What a question!
Marriage at my age is a hole in the funds, dear. - But if young, marry? ... - Never. - Well, Uncle ...
I do not want to Cecilia. - Do not want to Cecilia? - Stunned the knight said.
It should be noted that Don Melchor was a blind love, almost worship the promised his nephew.
Since Gonzalo noticed her and he knew, made the subject of persistent observation was the same as if recognizing the hull of a ship before the trees.
Found it good, quiet, intelligent and industrious, and felt intense bitter joy only by the news that the couple would not go to live with him.
Recently visited the home of Belinchón, but when the girl stumbled into the street, never left to stop it, so gallant showing and expressive as he had never seen anyone. - Did not want it? - Repeated .-- And why not want it, dunce? - Do not know.
Come on, Gonzalo, you have to give carina on the head. - It is an atrocity ...
Gonzalo could not help but smile. - Cecilia is a good girl, worthy of marrying a better man than me ...
The veteran was (though the assertion raised eyebrows) in the age at which feels better women's poetry, which is the exquisite sensitivity, resignation, tenderness, sacrifice and not available ephemeral form, as judged divestment impetuous youth. - No riñamos for it. - Yes reñiremos ...
because I want another. - What the hell are you saying thousand there, boy! - Don Melchor uttered by the arm holding his nephew and shaking. - I can not help it, man.
I love to her sister's neck Ventura. - Are you at your trial or between two stools, rapacious? - I'm serious ...
My relationships are Venturita formal.
Her mother knows and has approved, and this time also his father must have news of them. - What about the authority? - I'm sure.
Don Melchor left arm of his nephew who was taken, and put his hand to his forehead.
Was a long time without speaking.
I feel sorry for her because I have to collect it baby ...
and even more sorry for you, Gonzalo.
Were already on board a boat insurance, transport, white wood While bleeding, with the funds lined, sturdy trees and rigging clean and simple and leave it to embark on a lighter and trouser ...
Enjoy your meal you make.
But remember account, child, that the journey is long, wide and wild sea, so is prosperity now, in an instant becomes surf cam, the wind does not always chilly, and when it gets worse, it gets really heavy.
Dame seams, and give you miles.
Bunting is little point in leaving port if the hull can not handle the rig ...
I liked Cecilia I am very sorry to say the same about his sister ...
Or know enough, or My responsibility is to do, but I can and I must say my feelings, but never mind of them ... - Oh, man! ... - Nothing, nothing, dear: when a boy falls on his head a suestazo of these is jump must lower the sail sheets and let bowline-off.
But keep in mind that neither have you safe course, no work as a gentleman. - Uncle! - Clearer than I, water, dear.
If you have managed to overcome the resistance of parents and if you've saved the trouble, will not achieve that make white black, not to make a bad action good ...
Pica pica long cables and sail.
I am old now, and I have hope not to watch you run the storms that have to fall on you ...
But if God would give me that punishment, if ever, for my sins, I saw you run a capella and drinking water by overboard ...
feel, my son, have no more strength to throw you a rope.
The old man's voice had moved as he uttered these last words.
Gonzalo felt apretársele heart.
After Don Melchor said: - Are you coming to dinner, Gonzalito? - Now I have no appetite, man, there go a little later. - Well, so far - sadly gave Mr de las Cuevas.
And he walked slowly toward ground, losing a bit in the shadows.
Gonzalo was as I was, face down on the parapet of the wall, watching the sea that beat lightly.
The waves, after crashing into the stone with light, hollow boom, fell running on the other, and produced sound similar to a curtain that unfolds.
