I was not on deck.
There had been, there would have died with his son.
Not everyone is born for bishops.
Uncle Sparks, without looking away from the bow rudder and hands, bending to probe the dark between the sail and the pile of bags, we listened with crafty smile. - Yes, no profession has made a bad choice.
But your site is here: go ahead and warn if you see a boat ahead.
Juanillo ran overboard with the peace of a rogue safe beach. - Careful, boy, watch out.
But he was in the bow, and sat next to boom, peering into the black surface sea, at the bottom of reflected light as serpentine thread of the restless stars.
The lute, paunchy and heavy, fell after each wave with a grand chap!
Juanillo ran down the side of the side opposite the wind.
It was a moment of quiet, and sailing rizábase with strong palpitations, fainting next to fall along the mast.
But wine a burst, and the boat tipped with fast motion, Juanillo, to keep the balance agarrose the edge of the sail, and at the same moment it swelled up as if it were to explode launching the lute in a sprint and pushing hard throughout the body so irresistible Boy, that shot like a catapult.
At the sound of water to swallow it Juanillo thought he heard a cry, somewhat confused words; maybe the old helmsman who shouted, "Man overboard!" Fell much, much!
dazed by the blow, so unexpected fall, but before exact realize it saw himself again in the sea surface brewing, absorbing fresh wind furiously ...
Believed to distinguish a white, a ghost floating in the distance on the waves, and swam to him.
But suddenly no longer saw him there, but rather the opposite, and changed direction, disoriented swimming strongly, but not knowing where to go.
Cap I racked the temples, he pulled his pants as if it came to the bottom of sea ??and were swept algae. - Quiet, Juanillo, quiet.
He threw his cap, wishing he could do the same with shoes.
In a storm as they had killed his father and grandfather, good, but beautiful night with good sea die driven by a candle would be a fool's death.
But the screaming and distressed him two or three times the waves they covered his mouth.
He continued to believe, but with some concern, in his two hours of endurance.
Two hours and over there on the beach swam tirelessly.
But it was in daylight hours, at the sea ??of ??blue glass, looking down there, through great transparency, yellow rocks with sharp grass like branches of coral green, pink shells, stars pearl, bright flowers quivering fleshy petals to be touched by the belly Silver fish, and was now in a sea of ??ink, lost in the dark, overwhelmed From their clothes, having under his feet who knows how many boats destroyed, how many bodies emaciated by the ferocious fish!
And trembled at the touch of his wet pants, thinking feel the friction of sharp teeth.
Weary, faint, lay on his back, carried away by the waves.
There would eventually die foolishly ...
But the survival instinct made him sit up.
Maybe you were looking for, and being stretched would go near him without seeing him.
Another swim, with the anxiety of despair, joining on the crest of the waves to see farther, going as soon as another aside, waving always in the same circle.
A boat runs a lot, and soon they had uploaded onto the deck and lowering sail, and would be more than a mile.
And stroking this illusion, sank gently as if tirasen their heavy shoes.
Felt bitterness in mouth salty, blinded their eyes, the waters closed over his shaved head; but between two waves formed a small eddy, clenched hands and peered out again.
The arms were asleep, his head bent over his chest as overcome by sleep.
A Juanillo Heaven seemed changed: the stars as red as blood splatter.
No I was afraid of the sea, felt the desire to be abandoned on the waters of rest.
She remembered her grandmother, who at that hour would be considering it.
And he wanted to pray a thousand times had heard his poor old woman. "Our Father ..." I prayed mentally, but realizing it, her tongue moved, and said in a voice so hoarse that he thought of another: - Pigs!
Delved into the dark, sipping water, inert, helpless, but not knowing how, turned back Once the surface.
Now the stars were black, blacker than the sky, standing like drops of ink.
This time they really get to the heart: your body was made of lead.
In this excitement took no small part patriotism satisfied
