I have studied both the case! - Here are you - Pepe said handing him the pages. - Sit you a moment.
this is de Bravo Murillo, Asensio Calvo these notes ...
Much at that moment would have to be able to say it with your eyes all the pretty vain ideas, absurd ambitions that had nested in his thinking, no streets, nothing, fear, hope and poverty!
Peace had to hide his joy at not appear desapudorada, but did not pout of disgust or even the cute wrinkled brow.
For none of them was already secretly attraction that they practiced on each other. - Yes, sir, for this can take advantage - muttered Don Luis.
Pepe went on to the next room, and Don Luis, unable to contain, flipped through the pages again.
Peace left a few minutes elapse, and then also went to the room immediately.
Pepe, Without hesitation, he approached her and whispered, with a tone of sincerity, said: - Mademoiselle, this time it has brought me the chance, but cunning, but if my presence the angry, I will not ever see it you say you do not need a single word: it may be sufficient their silence ...
Peace did not open his mouth, and yet, in the eyes of Pepe looked all that their soul.
The girl, rich girl, heard that without a movement of anger, prey a delicious confusion: he then offered her hand and she quickly shook between his own feeling at the same time as the reddened face.
No sentence all languages ??of the earth had been as eloquent as he blushed.
Immediately left the office without speaking.
When he left, Peace ran to his room, approached to a balcony and, lifting the curtain a bit, saw him disappear behind the tree trunks the ride.
The gold particle was attached to a grain of sand: the stream of life had to drag together ever since.
What I have done is wrong, I know, and yet, I could not restrain myself.
I dint fix my error of openness.
This language gave wings to the living character of Peace. - Yes, do you have reason, I understand that I am wrong, I have not come today because this room, but is I'm as loyal as you.
What another man would be a game with me would be a mockery.
Without letting end, went to the office door and very quietly, with a charming pout, repeat again: - Demanding, demanding.
