Speaking of the family was deeply and eloquent.
And if so, how revolutionary science cast on all things old disdain their stupid, there was also launched on their rude ancestors contempt? "A principle of family breakdown is the attack which is governed by the revolutionary school property.
This aggression is not only a direct attack against society, but an even more direct attack against family. "The property, inheritance and heritage, what are they but the cult of the ancestors and love to the children?
The property is the present, past and future of the family; is the place where it grows and expands over time, is the soil that ensured grandparents will, as now under the soles of the seed that rises blessing. " About an hour was the wise Piarist settled on solid bases the existence of Christian family.
These bases were nothing more than religion, property and tradition.
He spoke with authority, in a simple and persuasive tone, with dapper and proper word.
The attentive audience listened to him, submissive, convinced it was the Holy Spirit by the mouth the venerable priest ordered them to be very careful with the tradition, religion, and especially with the property.
This sublime thought I was building so that the count of Cotorraso and some other large landowners who were there, they were united eternally the Supreme Being by the sacred bond of landed property and promised to fight for she heroically in the Senate oppose any law that directly or indirectly would prejudice his integrity.
After the Piarist is repressed complied with smiles and shouts of enthusiasm.
All spoke in falsetto respecting the sacred enclosure.
Miss leathery that had asked before what would become of her if the father missing Ortega ran to take the hand and kissed it repeatedly with outburst that changed a few looks of mockery bystanders.
The father withdrew abruptly with visible disgust.
And rose again the gallery several ladies and gentlemen, and executed, in every sense of the word, some Gounod's religious melodies.
At last they left the chapel all those pious souls and went to the salon.
The Marquise de Alcudia, whose will could not ever be at rest, prepared to meet what he had promised his nephew.
