If he wants, the little capital of you will be well placed, you charge your income all quarter, and it is easy to acquire five worth ten soon.
We are, So they go to see Don Ramón.
Since then, his name seemed to fill the room, and the two women it lodged in his memory be imagined as a powerful, all good, which ball the millions and enjoyed by rich to poor. - When are we going to see Don Ramón? - Was the question that the two women were just entering Juanito at home.
And made a morning visit to Tonic had no job and her boyfriend could leave the Three Roses.
In the Plaza de la Reina and his legs trembled Micaela, thinking in the wrinkled brown paper tickets containing filthy, and that was even more to be confronted with the gentleman from whom all tongues were born.
They entered a magnificent courtyard, embellished by industry rather than the art of architecture, in which imitated marble plaster and plaster molding machine pretending handcrafted old.
In the first flight of stairs was the office of Don Ramón.
The lobby seemed to ministry, and only if the bank was lined with velvet space for which they arrived.
Priests were mostly for Don Ramon, pious person and friend by the hand to charity of the Church, it ranked as the banker of the clergy, and his name reached the sacristy great prestige.
The black robes, the discrete half-light filtering through the curtains to balconies, ornaments fading third on a sweet twilight, calm and unobtrusive that reigned throughout the house, gave it a monastic atmosphere of deep peace, sweet and attractive.
Johnny and the two women, after an hour of waiting to see the entries and exits customers, who were discreet air, as influenced by the atmosphere of seraphic calm were admitted to the presence of the great man.
They crossed the office, where half a dozen feathered poor devils bent, raising his head to throw a glance Tonic quickly.
Opening a black screen, entered the office, dark room papered with shelves and large chrome green folders French saints, who seemed groomed and scented to attend a dance.
There, after the minister table, on which everything was neatly arranged with trivial, showed himself the famous banker.
Tonic experienced a disappointment.
Tell them imagined majestic, imposing, and saw a man stunted, yellow, round-shouldered, with gray head and a mustache cut, which seemed clerical detached from his face.
He spoke rhythmically beating on one hand the back of the other, and their brown eyes shining behind gold spectacles were most notably the face, their expression extremely kind and attentive.
Ease of physiognomy immediately recognize him Juanito. - Sit down you ...
Don Ramón noble modesty welcomed the expressions of confidence from her admirer, and seemed feelings with the few words of Tonic and her friend begging deigned to accept their money. - I'm too busy to take care of the affairs of others ....
They are now ninety-eight, but will soon go up, I assure you.
I do not claim anything, I'm like everyone else and I can be wrong, but maybe ...
perhaps within a year will double the little capital.
And he was grinning, slapping hands with happy expression, as if only needs a simple nod to the two thousand pesetas to multiply in millions.
A current of excitement seemed to involve the three visitors.
The fever of gain dominated them at night to talk business again reappear.
Now, no longer Tonic was so insignificant at Don Ramon and even thought he saw in him a certain aura of man of genius.
The brown paper containing the hardships and hopes of the women was on the table.
Ramon could do whatever he wanted.
They relied on him like his father. - Well, buy Cubas.
The chicken will go through here when you like, so that you know about the progress the little capital.
And Don Ramon accompanied them to the screen, sheltering with loving eyes of a father to his three customers.
The money was on his back, no receipt, no warranty, guarded by the spirit of unshakable confidence that the respectable personality circuit banker charitable.
Leaving the three, hinted at a new customer, a man in jacket and cap, industrial, which had left a second shop to fetch a word idol. - Come up - the banker said cheerfully, without letting it your greeting -.
Have you already thirty thousand.
The man, pale with emotion, is contained so as not to jump into the neck of Don Ramón and eat it with kisses. - Thank you, thank you very much!
Are you my father.
And not to disturb the great man, he fled, trembling by the news, thinking of their children and what would his wife.
The same said those who were in the anteroom, little people, with blouse morning coats worn ones and others, all men of faith, bringing their savings to the shrine honesty, and whispered as they waited for the turn, becoming the language of their virtues.
Two days earlier, Ramon, to take stock of the month, noting that resulted in his favor five hundred pesetas, certainly from an error in the collection, had gone to confess involuntary absence, giving the priest the amount for the dole to the poor.
And the news spread by word of mouth, agrandábase, tears started coming to emotion.
Not only money but their own blood could be given with confidence.
The crowd, Sunday best, agitábase around rocks, admiring the floats again traditional every year came to light: heavy hulks washed and shiny, but with an air of antiquity, looking in their rear, which certificate of baptism, date of construction: the seventeenth century.
Remember those huge factories of painted wood, with his spear like a pole ship and the wheels which millstones, the float sacred idols or Indian symbolic wagons Guelphs and Ghibellines took their fighting.
People magazine spent a curiosity not devoid of tenderness to the row of rocks, as if his presence awakened memories.
And all these wagons, funny legacies of piety of past generations, were admired by the crowd, that enthusiasm with a purely South rejoiced at the party pm, when the mules were matched tufted spear and wagons Dull moved the streets with rolling, lush guys went with bare platforms firing a shower of confetti over the crowd.
As the morning progressed increased tingling around the rocks, which, seen from afar, stood out as obstacles on the wave of heads.
The first summer sun polished as mirrors of the wagons painted tables, gilded masts, scattered a powder gold in the square, was the giant canopy caramel transparency, and this picture Levantine strong light dulcificábase with white tone of the crowd, dressed in bright colors and covered with the first straw hats.
At noon, when increased competition was the Pajares left the cathedral, devotional in hand and grip the string of pearl and gold.
And Pajares had to stop at the wall of onlookers crowded the passage of ride.
First came the bearers of the banners, with silk vestments bars Aragon and high brass crowns on hair and Barbaza of stubble after them the cure City, the famous "chaplain of the rocks' encaparazonado spirited horse rider in yellow the silk cloak down from the collar to the tail of the horse, and teaching the clean tonsure white bonnet to greet the public with balconies.
And still behind the dansetes, squads disguised in filthy clothes rascals Turks and Catalans, Indians and Valencia, sounding hoarse and starting tambourines dance steps, the flags of the guilds, glorious rags with four centuries old, warriors of the revolutionary banners Menestralia sixteenth century, the sacred legend, as confused as touching the flight into Egypt Sins capital, with outlandish costumes and colorful spikes as jesters of the Middle Ages, and in front of them virtue, christened the bizarre name of the Moma, the Magi, Riding performing wonders; heralds on horseback, on foot municipal gardeners with large branches, floats triumphant, all mixed, costumes and gestures, as a grotesque parade of Carnival and cheered by the bright twang of the flutes, the beating of drums and martial parade of bands.
Behind, leading the procession, and move the public invitation to join the party, were in the parade half-dozen local gentlemen in evening dress, lying on the emblazoned cushions, carrying on the belly, Concejil emblem, the red strap and greeting sombrerazo public with a protector. - Back, girls! - Dona Manuela said his daughters -.
Pajares the left who leave the parade with its roar of drums and flutes and continued its march through the streets covered with thick layer of sand over the rocks.
When the food arrived home from Andresito Pajares.
His parents sent him to make the offering of all ages.
It was known that the balcony was the Three Roses best of Market.
And the widow Pajares, who had spoken so badly of Teresa, her former maid, was now praised it like a childhood friend.
A family of three went to the market direction.
Concha y Amparito attracted attention with their colorful dresses and capotitas of Straw, who made his head look on an entire meadow of flowers and moss.
Mom looked at them in the back, experiencing the proud satisfaction of an artist.
His work was that estate, and had to admit that the girls knew wear it.
trembled at the thought what that cost him and the terrible uneasiness for the future, always money as eternal nightmare, embittering the existence, she had spent so much!
Juanito the left at the door of Las Tres Rosas, to go in search of his girlfriend, and they, rising to the rooms of the Lords of Paintings, they found an coterie consists of all Friends of the house, speculators and traders families removed, clumsily imitating mannerisms and gestures that had been copied in the afternoon in the Alameda, walking in carriages between the old aristocracy.
They talked about summer fashions, "as I was going to be ', while men formed a group around the balconies, giving in eternal conversation turns around four percent of interior and mortgage notes Cuba.
Cuadros's wife, who answered his friends with smiles and seemed very concerned rabbit by sad thoughts and mysterious abalanzóse Dona Manuela, greeting her with tight sonic hug and kisses.
He seemed desperate to find at last the means of salvation. - We need to talk, Dona Manuela - whispered -.
Meanwhile, girls in Pajares, those of Lopez's famous stockbroker and other girlfriends posesionábanse the balconies, making birdhouses with their loud talk and laughter funny.
The square was a multicolored sea of ??heads.
The balconies were decorated with ancient tapestries Solid colors, constantly vomiting new intersections groups in the compact crowd, and birds nesting in the trees of the market that fled before the granujería mounted in the branches, whistled and shouted to those below, with the confidence that is in their own home.
The summer sun warmed the crowd, among whom he walked by the girls disheveled and flip-flops, with the pitcher in the hip, hawking fresh water, and the guys went to arms Herculean and rolled up with silk handkerchief on his head, holding the heavy pulse chilly and giving shouts horchata and barley water.
They had already struck four.
On the balconies abríanse like giant flowers, parasols brightly colored, big fans Men swarmed with flapping bird, and down the crowd stirred worries, bumping into serried ranks of chairs that fringed the creek.
And there was shoving, elbowing, head swirling, pushing all that was in front for see better.
In the distance, dwarfed by distance, appeared the first rock, around which, Lilliputian jockeys, horses prance did the soldiers in charge of opening step.
The rocks, one after another, were parading through the square, each producing a revolution.
Trotting, dragging the heavy hulks, dozens of mule fat shiny outputs of the blocks of the mills, with their tails taped, their heads adorned with colorful tassels and between the ears and waving plumes stiff.
Caught running their flange the servants of the millers, lightweight espadrille athletes, bare-chested and with arms air, which the voice of "high!", heads hung, making a halt to spirited beasts.
Hanging from the rear of the wagons balanceábanse clusters of little boys, that the child fell into the arena rocking, miraculously emerging from the legs of horses.
On the platforms were those of the Commodity Exchange, traders of wheat, millers, and hearty people DIN friend who, in shirt sleeves, buttoned with diamonds and thick gold chain in his waistcoat, threw the balconies with the force of projectiles wet corsages cartridges and hard candies such as bullets, with more starch than sugar.
Every rock spreading terror and joy at a time.
The movable arms firing battery vocal shrapnel covering the air of objects falling glasses broken, and until the shades were crumbling under the hail of confetti.
In the balconies, the ladies cubríanse the face with her fan, fearful that the couple met that such brutal riddled with gifts.
Below were the brave ones, who for a bump more or less would not show fear and insulting to the rocks when they exhausted the projectiles, until those were thrown into the baskets empty head.
Every time dropped a cartridge or a bunch of people, eager thousand hands were raised, giving rise to disputes for its possession.
Finally passed the last rock, the mischief, where people of thunder was more egregious in their gifts and tenacious in providing profits to the stores glass, and calm was restored in the square, beginning to clear the crowd.
Frame home, ladies, tired of staying so long standing on the balconies, went in search of the soft seats of the rooms.
On a balcony, all alone, were Dona Manuela and lady Pictures, sheltering both under the same umbrella, affecting look passers-by and talking quietly serious, mysterious tone.
Pajares showed himself the widow of maternal and gave advice to her friend with some haughty superiority.
He could talk quite frankly, because I knew the great interest which he inspired all of your home.
He married, believing that a serious man who showed so much in love, could not be unfaithful, and yet, he had to tell her the last few years of marriage. - Neither Santa Rita de Casia, friend Teresa, I suffered as much as this man possessed.
In short, you already know ....
Dona Manuela, and intelligent person in the matter, listened to the poor relationship Teresa who stuttered and had to make efforts not to mourn.
In the morning he had discovered everything.
It is true that something was suspicious and, given the indifference with which he treated her Antonio.
But who could imagine that this man would dare so much?
She believed him occupied only making money for your home, and that morning, to clean up one of their jackets, were found in the inside pocket a letter he had great difficulty with reading, because she was not strong in these things. - And who was it? - Said the widow with eager curiosity. - In one such Clarita.
It seems impossible for honest men and children to read such filth.
And the poor woman ruborizábase, showing in his face and shiny born cloistered nun the same expression of shame that if she were the author of the letter. - But who is this Clarita?
Do not laugh, Dona Manuela wanted to be a man, make a lot ....
