Nor do I know him myself but by mere inference.
I I asked her to dance for a chance to insult and avenge a wrong which meant someone had done for my sake. - Who did the wrong? - Did not say.
Only he shouted that I was to blame for it to look separate from his wife. - He must be mad or drunk. - Drunk nay, rather crazy.
Listen, said Cecilia recalls, said his wife was the one who raised me, that I was mulatto and my mother lived and was crazy. - Did not found out what it was called the devil in black? - Yes, it was revealed at last.
The officer recognized the tailoring of Uribe.
He called by name Dionisio Gamboa, although he claimed not to be called that, but Dionisio Jaruco. - Ah!
It will take, as there is a God in heaven, as you capture.
A good Tonda already on his trail.
There is no such Dionisio Jaruco or pumpkin.
His name itself is Dionysus but his name must be Gamboa, because it belongs to mom.
The most unworthy, ungrateful, infamous theft of Dad's old clothes added the flight and left my mother without a cook.
A black no you have agreed to house more shameless than him.
And see the result.
Is hidden under seven ground states, hence it will draw.
I think skin him alive if you should not pay.
Carried away by anger, took some time to understand that Leonardo was scared Cecilia with such unwelcome threats, as well as themselves ridiculous in their eyes, as it warned without effort the wrath of her lover against the black no offense came from both her inferred as having left the family without a cook.
Retracing his steps, but Later, the boy said: - But all these, what have you had to do with the separation of Dionysius of his wife?
I doubt you were born when mom licked Mary Rule, women Dionysus, as outrageous and lawless in La Tinaja.
She really raised my sister Adela.
Come on, is a folly, a mistake hers, a pretext to vent you could not return the insult. - To do this, Cecilia said with satisfaction, that cost him dearly mess with me.
At the exit Dancing José Dolores waited at the corner of Broad Street.
Does it hurt to you that he had been punished as soon as needed? - No, no, Gamboa was quick to correct the lack of gallantry which had committed manifest feeling for the wound of his slave.
More talking another thing, what your grandmother doctor attended in his illness? - Montes de Oca. - How did he come to heal? - I went for it. - Did you know? - In view. - Do you know your grandmother? - She does.
Mother went to see him at his house and he came to see her every month. - To cure? - No.
Mammy had almost never been sick a doctor. - What were brought dares or take them? - Mother received an allowance through the Montes de Oca. - An allowance!
Now I remember that long ago took Montes de Oca Dad rent Rule same Mary, the wife of a cook, to raise a child, the illegitimate daughter of a friend yours.
And here deciphered why the mistake of Dionysus.
Of course, you were not, but who takes the very beast of the error?
For you see, after that María Adela Rule raised by about two years.
What I can tell you is that the raising cost him much distress to mother.
Montes de Oca agreed to pay two ounces of gold to dad for the rental price of Mary Rule.
I suspect never served because he is a bad payer.
I read in your eyes. - Mal reader you then. - I deny standing tiptoe Montes de Oca passed the counter on their own. - I also deny. - Ah!
All I know is that Montes de Oca was spent on behalf of a friend ... - That you know.
That is left for the curious reader. - Say it, say, he urged the young man taking his hand.
Not want to know out of curiosity, but for something that'll tell you later. - Vd.
known as their hands. - Who, then? - His father you - My father!
Since I was little. - How do you know? - You saw it on the streets.
He would brave and told me many things: he was made a Mataperros, lost, badly brought up, and was going to make me catch on the soldiers. - Did you know his name then? - No, not know until much later when I had become a woman.
Me has not been his friendship with another mommy.
From Corpus to San Juan, used to talk through the window, always me. - What's it say? - Not good indeed.
His conduct away the idea you love.
Not in love from you, no.
Nor was he a man of love to go gay.
Now I'm disappointed ... - Is that mommy was also opposed to our relationship.
At the time of his death sent me that you did not want to - You think not obey, is not it? "Said the young man passionately. - It's too late, "Cecilia answered blushing. (Then he added quietly:) God forbid I even disobeying mommy. - Never weigh you down, "said Gamboa heat, I swear by the most sacred, dear me well.
I, meanwhile, that none of what you have said explains the mess of the counter.
You may not continue pasándotela you ... - That I think, quite affected Cecilia said. - That's not the worst, added the young thinking, but the doctor will charge a cure the patient.
Everyone does a dead wood. - For that part I am quiet.
Throughout the mummy disease, instead of asking me was the doctor gave me money for expenses. - How much you gave? - How to fifteen ounces of gold.
José Dolores. - Dale with José Dolores.
There would again hear his name in your mouth. - What do you have?
Interrumpiose maybe the lengthy dialogue of the lovers by the arrival of Nemesia with biggest upset of the three.
Cecilia, because it was submerged in the sea of ??confusion about their fate, do had thrown the sudden death of his grandmother.
In disgust Leonardo, because after I found out about Cecilia's position in that house, realized that he must remove it as soon as possible or risk losing them forever, and there was no had time to settle with their agreement the new plan of life.
For its part Nemesia also experienced a lively distaste for without further argument or evidence the presence there of the dreaded rival of his brother, when he believed more distant and forgotten Cecilia, he was convinced that no jealousy in it, nor the absence in it, had acted the miracle of trocar into hatred, even indifference, the deep affection he professed both.
Nemesia cried together.
The cap on this morning as two inseparable. - Where? - In this room.
To put home. - At least not said Jose Dolores irritated at best. - No.
If intended for dear, the sooner the better leads, because I first left spitting in the face to play the role of cover.
Not the man to pass me the weed and laugh me.
That is what we expected tonight. - Maybe.
A tragedy would cause more Despite her than him. - Still not all is lost, Jose Dolores, Nemesia said thoughtfully.
While life lasts, there is hope. - What hope, sister?
Please be known that she is not firm or law.
He says one thing now and then another.
Although I kneel, though I kiss your feet, do not forgive him that made me.
Do not laugh at me nor the sun of men.
How many, how many boys as good as he would not be saints, with a stone in his chest such that I want?
I will not be of those who remain on the shelf or caring nephews.
I swear the first thing I say hi, tell já.
And we'll see who loses most, if he or me.
CHAPTER V Which excuse the rod, like bad his son, and he who loves him, with corrects many rods.
Proverbs, XIV, v. 24 Had unexpectedly reached the moment to plan the plan devised by Don Candido before his departure to the field.
Signaled the death of Cecilia Josefa had thrown into the arms of Leonardo, which he knew his father was not as simple nor as virtuous missed an opportunity that presented itself taking by mistress, pretending to protect.
Don Candido this event looked almost like a catastrophe, whose only means of avoiding, where concept was to remove the light Cecilia and Leonardo trade, even for achieve necessary use of force.
But I thought that maybe I could run the same thing without noise or liability as it would give a legal appearance.
Moved by this idea happy, decided to counsel with the attorney and Mayor Don Fernando O'Reilly, a friend and classmate Leonardo, with whom he was quite friendly.
It happened, however, that in the presence of His Lordship were you mind the species, which frightened the pigeon pigeons, and only managed to say that: - Valdes coaxed his son Leonardo, seduced him with her wiles, and not let him go law school and wanted to know what remedy could bring justice to a scandal.
Not that occur in Havana similar cases, no; occur thousands, is that these are the ignorance and relaxation of morals, which only attacks are criminal offenses against life and property, those that are still immediate harm to the person or neighbor's goods.
Government policy Vives also cause corruption term or by mistake without parallel in the world.
Nor is ascertained only rarely the source of crimes more egregious, because if you catch any wrongdoers.
It says only that the killer was a black fugitive who tried to arrest him. - I have reason to suspect that the murderer was my cook.
I ordered last days Tonda woman to capture ... - There would be nothing strange, "continued the Mayor.
It is understood in the right hand the slave to the noxa, the act of renunciation of direct control over it is the master for the court that tried for the crime committed or damage.
It is known that failure will spread the hand to the headman court, raises a summary black against the defendant.
Then you need to do the same with the clerk to attest, with the official of causes that sometimes provides its own pace, with the prosecutor accuses and not work for nothing with the judge, counsel, and so forth. - Suits me, Don Fernando?
Not in my days.
It would be better hanging from a lamppost. - Makes you well ...
What breed of woman is that? - I do not understand. - I mean, young or middle aged? "Married or single? "Pretty or ugly? "White or color?
Mayor, with loyalty as I know in particular, Gamboa said hesitantly and with his ears burning with embarrassment.
The girl is young, quite young, barely will have 18 years of age.
It has not been married, nor, as I understand it, can be described of ugly, rather pretty, real girl, I'd say.
Is poor, yes, poor, poor, and color pass for white but wherever you do not know their history ... - Okay, well, "said the mayor thought.
First, tell you if you know who lives with her. - Now, suppose that a friend of hers. - None of assumptions, Don Candido.
In this kind of openness is business first.
The lawyer and the judge must speak as he spoke to his confessor, his heart in his hand.
The mother (added stammering and redder than ever), the mother ...
Anyway, it would be worth nothing he lived.
she would not have known ...
She is the daughter of the Royal Creche.
Did you know you person's grandmother? - Yes, sir, I met her, but never had intimate relationship with her.
Would refer over and alien this place go into detail.
I know, however, that women of color (it was brown) led an exemplary life, who practiced virtue, who confessed and received Holy Communion often who raised her granddaughter in the fear of God, who was watching closely, and especially not spoiled her frolic, or processions lads flirted with window. - Then the girl in question is well-bred, honest living and has not yet say. - That is true, only that as a hybrid race, do not much trust in her virtue.
Is mulatto and we know that the daughter of cat kills mice, and that goats do jumps, jump the breast. - Well said.
We confess that our sayings contain large pool of wisdom.
Confess also that our mulatto, generally speaking, are fragile by nature and desire, innate in human creatures, to promote or improve the condition.
And here's the key to decipher the reason for his fondness for white and his disdain for the men of his own race.
A well I talk to someone who should understand me.
But a general rule, a strong presumption theory, however plausible it may seem bright on the nature thereof or hobbies or these other people, is not done, do not report crime, even quasi-crime, which is what Penan laws and judge and punish the courts. "Let's summarize.
Don Candido overwhelmed by the unexpected departure of the judge, for a long period not he managed to say a word, just squeezed his fingers and nodded.
Or is that VS does not matter where it takes more burning, as if it were, to end spear?
Not sure, I think nothing else, Don Fernando. - While there is always a serious thing (the mayor said with his usual equanimity), throwing warrant of arrest against any individual who is suspected of having committed only one crime is not what stops me in this case, I stopped that yourself with his frank statement, I removed the handle that could dip to proceed with the appearances of legality
