Paul went to his family, writhing with laughter. - What happened to you? - Dona Paula asked, smiling. - We have followed a parakeet in the pot and you are hand in hand with Ramona - said the youth, mouth close to her sister's ear Ventura. - Yeah ...
Here is Pisces also heard ...
Pisces corroborating grunted.
At that time, Parakeet, which was a pale and sickly boy, with blue eyes and short and sparse beard, appeared in the lunettes.
The whole family looks nailed Belinchón laughing and mocking him.
Especially Paul and showed greatly elated Venturita in sight.
Budgie lifted his head and waved.
The family said the greeting without Belinchón stop laughing.
Turned to lift her head two or three times and seeing those insistent smiles, was upset and left the hall.
Manolo (barber); Don Juan as the Salado clarinets (clerk of the City) and Happy (carpenter); as tubal Mechacan (shoemaker) and Mr Romualdo (undertaker); as Pepe cornets the Esguila (builder) and Maroto (serene); as Figl Mr.
Anselmo, instead of baton in his hand to direct a huge shiny key, which was his workshop.
The prelude was very sad and afraid, as we were in hell.
The audience kept absolute silence, anxiously awaiting what would come out of there, staring at the open traps on the floor of the stage.
Anselmo turned and looked Retribution the musician, who blushed to the ears.
There was the strong public and prolonged murmur.
Of the pan out then a voice shouted: - Was the Esguila Pepe.
The public gaze turned to that workman, who became distracted by removing the of the cornet mouthpiece and shaking, but was increasingly red. - If you're not playing that go to bed - the same voice shouted.
And all eyes turned to the stage of the mayor.
He was a man of sixty, seventy years, under tall and very deep color, hair well preserved and completely white, shaven cheeks, the Bourbon nose, eyes large, round and prominent.
Which, in the same point, following the old precept that obliges every pastor and every pastor to be in love to appear elusive, the dialogue began, where complaints and tender love laments it contrasted with her indifferent laugh.
The ground began to go the board, especially a subject that seemed a lot of hair, who was called Tanganyika, which was moving from side to side, with the grace of a bear, running cables, and throwing grunts of disdain for the crowd. - Listen, Tanganyika, and you'll feel like eating a casserole of cod, right? - Rejoice, Tanganyika is cider Llandones Winery. - It was hot in Norway? - There you would like to see me, thief! - Growled Tanganyika, while clutching a candle
