But when there was or when there will be no bosses, but with another name or nickname of denote?
Since before Cadmus furnished to Greece, and even before that Saturn reigned in Italy in Greece and Italy were chiefs.
What's in Spain was very vicious from from ancient times Gerions of those in vain we Osiris and Hercules freed Egyptian, because after this unfortunate country ruled almost without interruption a long series of not less ferocious tyrants.
See, then, how old ailment chieftaincy is everywhere, and very uniquely in Spain and how such a scourge can not be regarded as deplorable novelty introduced and implemented between us constitution or political system of fashion.
Be all that as it should be, and regardless of the thesis, if snow and mud is permissible betray any, you can ensure that the novel is very pleasant and quiet reading until tragedy occurs that ends.
José Joaquín Domínguez writes very pure elegance and delicate taste, and lets us know, without affecting and without fanfare importunate, who has studied well to our classics and the ancient learned Greek and Roman, not slavishly copy any of them, but putting in style flavor and aroma, as providing new wine in old wine sill and generous than the old glass contains.
I would like to here news of other recently published stories and novels.
Harvest as I indicated, is abundant in this century and it was in the past.
And without prejudice to undertake again the task of critical Another time when I feel less tired I confine myself now to quote from their titles Thomas I, D.
Jose Jesus Garcia, printed in Almeria to Gondar and Fortaleza, the Marquis Figueroa, Floor, and D.
Sebastian Gomila, edition of Barcelona in the shade of the mosque, Cordoba stories by D.
July Pellicer, Woman of Ojeda (Alicante, 1901), by D.
Gabriel Miró, trifles, stories and articles, by Don Alfonso Jara, and bulk to the Coracha, by and held in high esteem and Malaga Don Arturo Reyes.
Today, finally, only give an account of a novel by a writer from Seville, already known scholar and also elegant and witty poet.
As a novelist, not I know that D.
Luis Montoto, the writer whom I allude, has published anything before writing and publishing the novel entitled The four pennies.
As a lyric poet he knew me and I felt much long.
In the intellectual and literary activity that is central Sevilla, is among the most illustrious writers.
