And back to the grim holiday and hateful palace, the austere regime, the eternal prayers.
In the lives of the saints had ever seen were taken for defeated in their struggle with sin.
By huge, impossible for the company out, over and over time rushing with increasing ardor, relying solely on God's help.
Should make another both.
If he lacked strength, God is the lend.
Work tirelessly to achieve the return of the prodigal son, to destroy this hotbed of wickedness that could infect the hearts Peñascosa healthy, to remove that stumbling block.
It was decided in his mind that he would return back to the load.
But this time would be better disciplined, well known all arguments of the heretics and lead prepared replication.
Communicated with his teacher, rector of the seminary of the Lancia conversion project and asked him to request the bishop for permission to read forbidden books.
He soon send it the rector, but in the letter that accompanied it did not appear very enthusiastic about the company his disciple.
The ascetic priest enjoyed more perfect believers and good souls, in attracting definitely were in the grip of sin.
The first thing I happened to read the P.
Gil was a certain life of Jesus, very popular at the time between the wicked and which he always spoke with contempt mingled with terror at the seminar.
Our Lord Jesus Christ was considered by the heretic to write it as a man.
He lavished praise thousand laughable, I manifest exaggerated admiration, but it was to better demonstrate their unique human condition and slide poison of impiety with more fruit.
The book was full of lies. "Christianity, said, is a historical phenomenon and as such must be studied historically. "This was obviously absurd, because Christianity does the redemption of mankind by the Son of God; is the revelation of divine truth.
The author asked to examine the accounts of the Gospels by the same principles that any other tradition is judged, not be imposed criticism beforehand the results and let her preconceived hypothesis-free.
This was another absurd, for how we must apply to faith, the word of God, the same principles than facts and words of men?
Concerned with this discussion and willing to externalize the internal, as happens with everything and pregnant filling our spirit, ventured to make another visit of the estate of Montesinos.
This time it was very good, most gracefully, as if you prick the conscience your last rudeness.
Montesinos had the opportunity to express I had very good news for his character, who knew the virtues that adorned them.
Gil blushed and responded to these compliments, smiling sadly, that what I want at that time was very talented and a lot of science to convince the truth of revelation. "Do what revelation? - Had asked the gentleman kindly smiling too .-- How Disclosure of what? - Yes, which one?
It took hard work swallow that pill.
Was a portion of days without hardly think something else.
The idea that without realizing it could incur any error condemned by the Church deeply disturbed him.
