VI God, who, as the saying goes, tightens, but does not drown, he permitted that sad night continue one day very cheerful, with clouds sweep the sky and a sun that, though pale and cold, illuminated the valley and decorated the tops of the mountains surrounding them in haloes of shimmering light.
We went down together to the door, throwing it right away Canberra by the people and I on the other diametrically opposite to the mountain.
Acompañábame Chisco, highly recommended by gift from his master, in the same outfit and the very shoes he had known me in the passage of the mountains, and we went with the two a big dog hound, named Cinnamon, a very unusual breed to me so great that it would perpetuated in my uncle's house since his father was a waiter and hunter.
Chisco had a escopetona Piston with wide waxed twine reinforced clamps on very long barrel grungy, a powder horn and a bag of green bandana and the pellet BBs they were mixed with it.
I an elegant and fine Lafaucheux two guns, holster corresponding hanger, wide and sturdy boots spiked soles, leather leggings English and all baggage, in short, a hunter figurine.
Chisco looked at me askance and even smile awhile, particularly when fixed in my shoes, and, above all, every time I looked in the soft clay slip or on slabs of encalabrinar trails.
At last he came to plead that final step would have no choice to put up with pair of clogs as yours, that my clothes, "could happen" and that, in terms of weaponry, "They would see." If he cannot go on mozallón!
For one thing, neither he nor I were then actual "game" but a walk, just as in lowland walks a man with a cane in his hand or both vacant, the walker there equips weapons and ammunition for what could happen.
As the excursion it was very entertaining and also very helpful because it gave me a good appetite and better sleep, the next day I repeated, though different side of the mountain, but extend much more than the previous radius of my might, because the theater of my experiences was vast, and learning very tough.
After three or four days walking in these trials and continuing the time cheerful and spring Pete joined us (Agapito) Salces' Chorcos "mote, son of a home of my uncle, good Hunter also, like most men of that valley, something awkward and lengthy Magin and disjointed members.
He had known me at home one night, and I had fallen very grace your degustation and "things", for what my uncle, who was fishing in the air and sometimes means of entertaining, provided that from the next day to accompany me add to Chisco in my wanderings.
He was also very fond of it, and they both tasted like liquor glory Fraser and my cigarettes in my suitcase as soon as tasted.
