Neluco Celis, still looks the same as me thought when he first spoke: discreet, friendly, and noble understanding of very clear heart and a closed ark to save me what seemed to me that should be available My view: verbigracia, their inclination loving granddaughter of Don Pedro Nolasco.
Because I Lita could not conceive and Neluco not loved, and neither conceived nor garrulous midwife of Robacio, nor anyone with guts conceive of humanity and glimpses of good taste and repair a bit at that couple, "single", which seemed to put God in that corner land for that alone, to love and to join.
Lita and her mother had been twice in my house after I was in hers.
One of them, as I said, to pay me welcome the visit and, incidentally, my uncle and the other only by my uncle, whose health they were interested much, besides that, how could you leave home, they would make a bit of company as whenever the weather permitted and occupations.
All this I said discovering Lituca the rows of glazed white teeth, in vehement language, frisky and admiring astragalus to the door and as he pulled his feet, shod in sneakers petite coat on colored stockings, a pair of clogs that looked like two nutshells.
At that visit, as in the above, I, stubborn and dogged in my theme, I took fifty times the field of conversation disguised in a thousand ways, with the pious to observe which side Lita made him ...
and nothing, not a frown, or a point on her cheeks flushed, nor the most insignificant signal the granddaughter of Don Pedro Nolasco had heard his heart calls me to made with the name of Neluco and praise of its merits: he spoke of him with neglect and the serenity with which he could speak to his mother or his grandfather.
That made me impatient to me as if it were a matter of my own membership, and more than one occasion, I undertook serious tempted to ask the right questions and unambiguous and clearly: "do you want or not want you?
Do you love or not love Neluco?. " But sir, why was I so hard that to love?
Or rather, why it was so great you got that point right away well understood and demarcated?
Then my Uncle Celso, the soul and center of everything around him, with his indomitable energy, their jokes most singular, his attention always fixed on me how, since no fun life bearable at home and care for forcing me kinship and gratitude to ensure it with special care during the time of damp and very cold, in which, according to medical opinion, his life was in greater danger, by the nature of her illness.
And finally, its gatherings and my books, my papers and my correspondence.
The remaining both lots, some of it for its insignificance, and partly because of distance, could only be as decorative characters and scenery.
True that all these reservations so little relevance to the needs My spirit could reach epic, considered as elements of creation the fantasy of a witty writer, but they were taken and worth, as cases and things real life and prosaic in half so remote, so dark and so isolated like that, what I had to promise them for later?
What are my enemy against formidable auxiliary could expect from that side?
It's all about patience and learn to comply.
So a bit of philosophy, and await what may come.
XVII And he began to come before long, but alas!
what came was, first, a gray mist that came down from the mountains, wrapped around the village and slipped up at home, after that fog came a "gallego" cool with another brown fog, which was mixed with the first, sooty their color and making it more moist and sticky, was also a continuous rumble, like distant gunfire, which seemed to me the raging sea beating the rocks north the coast, but as the opinion of the people in my house, it was the "Rebombo" of the "Peña Pozón Sagra ", a large lake or well, that is for existing, I do not know of anyone who has seen, in the bowels of this giant of the Andes, and this noise constantly bronco, dejáronse heard in the area and the valley as a sinister and nasty moans, which were, according to Chisco reports, the cawing of the "Boutros" (vultures) and cranes, which spend "cararriba '; this signal, as the "Rebombo" the well and the low fog with the "Galician" behind that we are pouncing on a wintering of fat.
And the prophecies were fulfilled: the clouds became dark clouds swollen with rain, the wind, raging slowly crashed with frightful bellowing, into homes, slopes and Bardales, closing gaps and horizons everywhere you looked, felt the most ardent of blood the first shivers of cold, and we declare all in the house seriously and formally blocked by winter.
The first consequences of this blockade were in it, as it was easy to be presumed, the reduction of half a dozen small gathering of brave, including Salces Pito, who no saves in the impulses of the fondness that attracted him, and the fiercest winds and (What was for me far more unpleasant and unexpected so soon) a crisis of gender wrong in the state of my uncle.
As commissioned by the doctor forbade him to poke their noses the paneled open a window, was consumed with impatience in darkened moors of his prison, and when night came, and after praying the rosary in the kitchen, looked into it scattered, unmanned, shivering with cold and water drafts of a few commentators those of that tight phalanx of the first night, and I noticed the cause of desertion of others in the furious beating of the sleet against doors and windows and gun fireplace, stayed thoughtful and gloomy, with the humbled neck and staring at the flame the fire, whose heat instinctively sought.
And so one day and another and another, without that toughness of its fiber reach to disguise even the disappointments of his mind, reached a degree such abatement, which alarmed me, because in a moral status as yours, any gives flight of his illness was very scary.
Talking with him one morning in those days so raw, and just the two in the kitchen, which was his whereabouts regular time, I encouraged him as he could and he knows the weak quality my stimulants, finally say: - Do not get tired, Marcelo: This ujano that eats me is stronger than you and I together, by large who are your care and hard it has been my belt.
Look, man, not yet one year jaz I was so hard for me to fall as the beeches of those mountains.
Maybe the thought that only a glimmer of the will of God could mayor in the soil, a breath that light extinguished, put me to death's door when least expected and most neglected sleep.
Since then here, pispajo!, I never nothing I am astonished by anything I shrugged, and looked suspiciously refer to the ground where I put my feet, because they always and at all times and everywhere I am afraid the last remaining to beat the falling oak finish.
This is the truth, gravel!, And to think you signed up some of it in one of the letters that I wrote.
But then those were the days longer and the nights are shorter, the sun shone and warmed the earth's blood old, and, above all, returning from his trip early, much to scare up early ideas sad heads that charity comes just sleep at night.
So I Jallas happy ever to have seen me coming and get along well until yesterday, as they say ...
because when you have good health, the earth has no sauce if we are always singing the same solfa ...
and no change of clothes ...
I say that I was pulling so what until he reached the first cellerisca, it is still going on, while waiting, by signs, yet another tough one to her, and went out the sun by day, and closed doors and windows and night began to miss the people in the kitchen, and no end to the hours of bed or point of rest for evil to think of the head.
To this day and since I have use of reason, always the interests of other Jizo me forget my own, for now and I love a story pispajo! ...
and this is what me and hastily: I have eyes only to see how it goes woodworm rejundiendo and ajondando in this rotten log that falls with himself day by day, hour hour.
Paez to the wind, Rebombo in the chimney, I said something I never I had heard before, but something very afraid and very sad ...
come on, it's good ajuyera win, if I temporarily shut off all avenues of escape, and the cold chained me oars and I cut the little breath left in my gullet ...
and be fed, piece of junk!, that come from that band all the rot.
Look, man ... (Because put into question the point, should be ventilated in order, and I have seen many faces in so many nights of not thinking about anything else) if I would live no more than one of the children that God was giving me the death of his father's death would not be proper, because in cases like this, and you well know, the life of the sprouts to be on those who stay for more than weep and pray for them: a link locked in another link ...
But as things have turned out here and put I consider that I am within an inch of dying ...
With the last gasp, the string broken forever home without fire, empty barns, the house in silence and (even worse, if not the key metisteis between the four tables that were to rot my bones to the cemetery) in the hands of men you will not see in it only the rusty farthing to be paid by the right to abuse.
Believe me, Marcelo: matter much more than the life of your uncle, what is to go with her to another world, if God does not intervene ...
Knowing as I knew the strength of character and feelings of my uncle, was evident who was right in that assumption, and certainly it was he even appeared otherwise, but I could not so state, he declared, or expressed to me descariñado eyes and harsh, or accept a compromise that could not accept, because it was another very different from yours I see those things.
I would have been easy to deceive venturing a promise that he was walking perhaps looking for from the first letter to me, but I hated the lie that a man so honest and so smart like that, also states that I do not believe her.
So I took a bland temper that neither reached to lift his shot encouragement, even in disguise that I got trouble with your question. - All this - said the good man, trying to make small talk pinito that did not come out well - that is to say.
Look, man, Creasman or not believe me: the only remaining guts than me ...
come on, the only thing that I feel when this game is to help you not Amurrio alegraderas you also. "Oístelo?
Something more and more important I have to say, and I'll tell you in time and place concerned, and before long.
Enough talk, and do not scare the threat, but the point is a close relative of the treaty here, has no face so ugly.
If the two were equal I would get rid a lot of letting you know that you have not seen yet.
Tona came into the kitchen, something touched also on the wintry blues, a bustle at the stove where my uncle and I talked about the warmth of the fire, and I could not ask him what he had to the tip of the tongue, even as exploration around this new breed of 'point' I had a great curiosity.
But more than curious to clarify, I was worried and sad about the painting by Don Celso state of his mind.
To reach such extreme frankness of a man temple, what would be the weight of his trouble?
Putting the issue in recent terms and seemed more rational and tolerable, and if we had continued the two alone in the kitchen, you may have tried spot I enter this loophole the first support for their faintness.
The gray woman was the only one of which we inhabited the house, in whom there was a bump pattern the scourge of the storm which prevailed.
Even the walking Chisco espelurciado and shrunk somewhat through the stables and corrals, and went into the kitchen sometimes with sour mood, the Facia setback, which, since they had triggered the first celleriscas seemed another.
The more the hail lashed the walls of the house, and more "Runfla" gales in the chimney, put it more cheerful and more diligent face turned to the work.
Seeing so buoyant and so advantageous provisions, I struck up a conversation with her that same day, to take not know what junk to my room. - It seems - I said it to begin - that matters are going well, eh?
Entendióme the question, and after a bit overwhelm her, she replied without hesitation: - It's kept me God Muchu tiempu. - I'm glad in my soul - I said it then - it, because it does not see you with the horror of these days ... - Not lying to me, sir, Carida work! - I replied back to compunction -.
And Carida of God, do not ask me over for now ...
esu and will never, Don Marcelu; I, for the account that brings me, Nah, you look for the amparu of when load and render me ajueguen troubles me ...
Stood suddenly pale, he painted in the face the anxieties of other days, and led to her hands crossed and convulsed.
I moved to pity the poor woman, and felt remorse I have been the cause of that crisis, bitter.
Took hard work to calm, and I got it, but with the help of a "zurriascada" fierce suddenly crashed against balcony doors.
When this happened, he wiped his eyes and responded Facia badly to my last comment.
Hearing the noise outside, and stopped to tears launched into one of the open paneled, and there was watching, with the eagerness of a thirsty that sea of ??rain sifted, stirred and tossed into space by the fury of the gale. - Oh! - He cried at length, retiring from his observatory with beaming face and walking hurried toward the exit door - by God's mercy, there Ratu pa. "It was very singular and strange all this?
Meanwhile, I never stopped to reflect on the serious subject and point of paramount importance for me, born that very morning of the conversation I had with my uncle, and the more laps I was in my head, I felt more bound up by charity, to offer all who honestly could offer me.
If this offer is healed of his mortal anguish, What greater satisfaction for me?
If the passage of time was not my strength came so there like my good intentions, what would I blame it?
I did not hesitate more, I looked for my uncle found him in his room near a brazier, browsing some papers bad cough a lot and moving under the thick clothing that overwhelmed him at the gloomy light mid-afternoon and unpleasant noise of sleet and thunder did not stop outside.
XVIII I announced at the door asking if he could speak four words without disturbing you.
I was busily thinking of going soon to ask the same for cumplirte then I promise you this morning by finishing our conversation. - Well, to fulfill another promise - I added - I could not ask you then for lack of opportunity, but that was made in myself, I come now. - You're sitting and talking - I told this comfortable throwing on the roles browsing, then sat in a chair beside the hearth box and telling me to do I own into one that was in front of her. - As I sat down - I said, making it - you will obey of course, but as of talk ...
So what is it that you think, my son? - For what it occurs to me - I said I began playing tackle difficulties facing so delicate a matter of nature like this, whose starting point was nothing less than death of my venerable partner - it occurs to me, my dear uncle, something that relates another thing that I heard you this morning and I was very deep and very bitter impression ... - So, to see - the poor man interrupted her chair closer to mine, while painting the bright eyes, the curiosity which devoured. - Do not think that it is a thing of another Friday - added smiling. - Let the other Thursday or next Saturday, come the right thing and without wrappers, man! - Me responded with a vigor mortis inconceivable in its exhaustion. - Current - I said, not knowing how to reconcile my qualms with his impatience -; but after declaring for the proper intelligence, I took the case at the very point when you put him and left him this morning. - Declared and understood ...
cavil, if you prefer so, was what was killing him, that you do not frightened of death, but dying, ceasing to live, leaving the world forever, because badly need it and who does not leave his place in your work life.
