No, 'said the officer, only our main Satraps are those who know about it Fixo We cut their throats.
Introduxo Babuca was astonished with the generals, and hinted at its familiarity.
At last he said to one: The cause of the war twenty years has been plaguing Asia, comes originally a contest of a eunuch in one of the wives of the great king of Persia, with an office the great king of the Indies.
We tried a right which was produced with a short difference triesimo Darice, and as both the prime minister of India as the sustained with dignity nuestio the rights of their respective love, ignited the minds, and went out to each side bell a million soldiers.
Each year is necessary to recruit these armies with four hundred thousand men.
Our minister and the Indian protest very frequeencia that moves them nothing but the happiness of the human lineage, and every protest a city is destroyed, or ravage some provinces.
Having the other day spread the word that was going to make peace, gave the Indian general and Persian battle all haste, which was bloody.
Babuca saw all the errors and all the abominations that were committed, and was witness to the machinations of the main satraps, who made quanto was in his hand so that lost its general officers saw killed by his own troops, he saw soldiers who had killed their comrades dying, by taking away some bloody rags, broken and covered in filth, I enter the hospitals where the wounded had, perished almost all the inhuman neglect of those who paid their weight in gold the king of Persia for relief. ?
Ha, well I see that must be destroyed Persepolis.
Concerned with this idea way to the Indian camp, where, according to what he had predicted, received him with much entertainment as that of the Persians, and which witnessed the same excesses that had filled him with horror.
Ha, ha, he said to himself, if he wants the angel Ituriel exterminate the Persians, also have to exterminate the Indians the angel of the Indies.
Having been informed of quanto then more finely in both armies had happened, he knew actions magnanimous, generous and humane, which astonished and enthralled him.
Declarose peace soon, and the leaders of both armies, which had only its interest actually shed the blood of so many fellow beings, they went to seek his court award respectively, since none had won the victory.
Peace was celebrated in public writings announcing the kingdom of virtue and happiness on earth.
Thank God, he said Babuca; Persepolis will be the abode of the purest innocence, and will not be destroyed, as they wanted damn those geniuses without further delay we see this capital of Asia.
I reach this vast city by the old entrance, still mired in barbarism, and that inspired disgust for his rough disarray.
I felt all this portion of the time people who had built, that we must confess, is qual regardless of the effort to exalt the former at the expense of modern, that in all things the first tests are always rough.
Then he put Babuca gentio a crowd of more pork quanto compound and more ugly both sexes can be found, the qual entered all haste in a dark and gloomy room.
The buzz continued, the movement felt, and the money that some people in a dish casting, let him know I was in a public market, but when he saw that many wives kneels, apparently looking at what they had in front, and indeed men aside, I perceive that he was in a temple.
Rough voices, Subalpine, out of tune and bargain they made in the vault poorly articulated sounds resonate, like the voice of cerdudos animals in the plains of La Mancha respond to curved and sharp instrument the flame.
Tapabar ears, but then had to cover his eyes and nostrils, when he saw entered into the temple a few uncouth with shovels and hoes.
They raised such a large stone threw a right hand and left hand land that gave off a stench intolerable, put after a death in the hole they had made, and returned to lay the stone.
iCon burying these people, exclaimed Babuca, their dead in the same places where they worship the divinity!
icon that are paved with corpses their temples!
I no longer fear the pestilential ailments that afflict so frequeencia Persepolis, is capable of poisoning around the globe terraqueeo rot so many dead and many live pressed together in one place.
Doubtless the angels want to destroy, to build another city more beautiful, and populated with people more neat, and what better chant: Providence know what you do, do not get into take his idea.
And the sun was approaching the middle of his career, and had Babuca to go to eat at the other end Village, home of a lady who had given her husband a letter of recommendation that was an officer in the army.
He traveled thousands upon thousands of streets in Persepolis, saw other temples well decorated, where more educated people attended, and where they heard a harmonica music, repair public sources, although they made wonderful effect defective, was fresh and pleasant Street trees, gardens, where we breathed the most delicious smells, and gathered Vian plants of the most remote villages.
Marveled to see magnificent bridges, as they were intended to pass a stream without getting your feet wet wading is the four-fifths anus; step by wide streets and magnificent, filled with palaces on either sidewalk, and entered Finally the lady's house with a society of decent people waiting for him to eat.
Was your home clean and well decorated, the lady was a girl, beautiful, discreet and courteous, and society friendly, and it said Babuca one another: no doubt he had lost the trial Ituriel angel, when wanted to destroy a city so fulfilled.
But very soon warned that the lady, who at first had asked him for his loving new husband, to speak more lovingly food a boy wizard.
Then he saw a judge before his own wife to a thousand compliments to a widow, the qual with one hand clasped the neck of the magistrate, and gave the other a young man very nice and modest.
The first one up from the table was the wife of the magistrate, is in a locked cabinet away to confer with his spiritual director, eloqueentisimo man, that such power had to reason with her, he came back embarrassed face, wet eyes, his voice tremulous and faltering steps.
Babuca then started to the apprehension of that was right Ituriel genius.
With the dowry had Granger confidence, he knew the secrets that very day the lady, will fio their qual affection to the boy wizard, ensure that all houses would find the same Persepolis that had been hers.
Babuca inferred that such a society could not last, that all the houses were to be struck by jealousy, revenge and feuds, which constantly had to shed tears and blood that inevitably had to kill their husbands to processions their wives, or of being killed by them finally to very well destroy Ituriel once an abandoned village to horrendous disorders.
After eating was one of the most magnificent temples of the city, and sat in the middle a crowd of both men and women who had gone there to kill time.
Climbed a magician to a high machine and pondered long about vice and virtue, and having divided in several parts so it was not necessary to divide, test methods things clearer, taught what he knew everyone, no reason is exalted, and came out sweating and breathless.
Babuca said: "This quanto good man has done has been for the hell of two or three hundred citizens own, but his intention was good, and this is no reason to destroy Persepolis.
Brought him, emerging from this gathering, to see a public holiday that was celebrated every day of the year in a kind of basilica, whose inner part via a palace.
Were so beautiful spectacle most beautiful women citizens of Persepolis, and the main Satraps arranged in order, at first believed Babuca that came down to this party.
In brief dexaron be seen in the vestibule of the palace two or three people who looked like kings and queens; their language was very different from the fashionable to the masses, and had rhythm, harmony and sublimity.
No one is sleeping, we all listened in silence high, and if interrupted him, was to give tests of general admiration and affection, and with senses so alive and well spoken terms the obligations of the kings, love of virtue, and the risks of the passions, that drew tears to Babuca: who no doubt were the preachers of those rule heroes and heroines and those kings and queens who had just heard, and even made purpose of persuading Ituriel that came to listen, some of which show similar you reconcile with Persepolis forever.
After the party, wanted to visit the queen at the main palace was beautiful announced and unblemished moral sublime.
Introduxeran had him at her majesty, and I took a bad ladder to the second floor, where am in a room poorly adorned and furnished a poorly dressed woman, that noble and pathetic gesture, he said: "My job gives me no to live, one of the princes who have seen has made me a child: I am ready to be delivered: no I have money, and without money every birth is a miscarriage.
Darics Babuca gave him a hundred gold, saying: If there were worse things in the city, Ituriel had little reason to be so angry.
Was there to spend the afternoon at the shops of merchants of magnificence superfluous.
Brought him an intelligent sugeto who had befriended him, bought what I find to their liking, and many courtesies sold it much more expensive than it was worth.
Quando had returned home, let him see his friend that he had been swindled, and pointed Babuca memory in his book the name the merchant, for the day of the punishment of the city not take Ituriel forgotten.
There throughout the city, he answered the merchant, merchant none something known, had not come to bring the pocket, but I have said Quando I I sold in my store that have bought the quadruple in value, you've been deceived, because I've sold ten times more than what it is worth, and this is so true that if within one month you get rid of it you want, will not give or tithe, and there is more thing however as to reason, because as the whim of men that gives value to these trifles, that same feeds craving hundred workers who use me and my house gives me a good start, a good car, and good horses.
The nations neighboring towns sell them much more expensive than you the same trifles, and thus serve to benefit the empire.
Paros thoughtful Babuca a, time, and then delete it from his book.
Not knowing what to think of Persepolis, was determined to see wizards and writers, flattering himself that such a pardon would reach all the rest of the people, because some apply to the wisdom, and religion of others.
The next morning was to visit a school for witches, and he confessed that he was Archimandrite three hundred thousand crowns for having taken a vow of poverty, and exercies a vast jurisdiction under another vote humility.
That said, I leave to Babuca in the hands of a magician's apprentice, so gave her.
Ensenabale that the beauties of this house of penance, when the voice spread who brought commission for reform.
Memorials given point each, that all essentially came to say Conservadnos us and remove all others.
If credit was their own apologies, all these congregations were necessary, if attended to their mutual charges, all deserved to be destroyed.
Babuca Pasmabase that there is none that by building the universe, did not want to be the referee.
Babuca Asombrose the folly of men who profess the wisdom, the tangle of that had renounced the world, lofty ambition and greed of those who preached humility and disinterest, and gathered that left over good reasons to Ituriel to destroy all this race.
He retired to his home, sent to buy her new books to calm his anger, and bade eat several writers for recreation.
Reached more than double what had been called as Wasps go to honey.
They did not ford these gorreros to speak and swallow, and praised two classes of men, the dead and their own, but never to their peers, except the householder.
If you said one is a saying acute baxaban others eyes and bit his tongue feeling of not including the authors.
Were less cautious than mages because they aspired his ambition at such high objects, asking each servant's employment and reputation of a great man.
They began to insults in his face, that they contained sharp epigrams.
Habiaseles Translucent some of the commission of Babuca, and one voice descends beg him to exterminate an author who had not given enough praise, another asked what the loss of a citizen who in his plays never laughed, and another the extinction of the academy, because they never had been get to be your guy.
Finished eating, they went away all because in this whole bunch there was two that might suffer, or talked more than in the homes of the rich than your table guests.
Babuca believed that very little was lost with all this Landre perish in the general destruction.
Just pulled away from them, began to read some books that had just been published, and warned them the character of his guests.
Indignaronle most of all the newsletters of slander, and files in poor taste dictated by envy, hunger and stupidity, vile satires that respect and tear buytres pigeons; novels lack of imagination, where thousand portraits are ideal sugetos their authors do not know.
Tyre fire these detestable writings, and came home that afternoon to go for walks.
