and your cabin always well, like a corner of a planet apart, insensitive to variations of this world.
In the morning, awakening in him, he became involved in an atmosphere, green and smooth, it same as if he had slept in the back of an enchanted lake.
The sun drew on the white the roof and sheets of gold restless network, whose meshes are constantly succeeded: was a reflection of invisible water.
In the stillness of the ports coming through the windows the screech of the cranes, the shouts of the porters, talks of occupying boats around the liner.
At sea was the cool silence of the vast murmuring what filled his bedroom.
A wind of infinite purity, which may come across the planet, gliding thousands of miles across deserts salty without touching a single corruption slid down the throat of a wine Ferragut gas intoxication.
Its hard ribbing dilator was shot pulses in this life, while his blue eyes twinkled with the bright horizon.
At home, the first thing he saw upon waking was a Catalan building, rich and monstrous, like the palaces that draw the hypnotized in his dreams: an amalgam of Persian flowers, Gothic columns, tree trunks with quadrupeds, reptiles and snails from foliage cement.
The pavement was sending their vents the stench of a sewer solidified by the scarcity of water, the dust scattered balconies rugs shock, the palace-chimera swallowed with a novel rich insolence of the whole sky and the sun corresponding Ferragut.
One night he surprised his relatives by letting them know that returning to the sea.
Tape nodded a painful silence to this resolution, as if he had guessed long before.
It was something inevitable and fatal should accept.
Perhaps might make him the first council elections.
Ferragut laughed at the simplicity of his cousin.
Wanted to send a boat again, but his own, without having to suffer the impositions of the shipowners.
The property was Fingal a Scottish captain, who, notwithstanding his long illness, would not ever give up command died on board his ship.
It was the same people of the grandparents of Ulysses, and he remembered the Dotor with respect and admiration.
At the time, Toni was a sailor on a lute and cabotage, superiority of years that he had been authorized to tutear Ulysses.
To be now under his orders, sought to amend the treatment, but the captain would not consent.
All of those people were united Navy for long centuries of isolated existence and common hazards.
The crew, from the first drivers to the latest ratings, was equally familiar in his respect.
Some were of the same land of the master, others had long sailed under his orders.
Ulises owner known as a host of concerns that had not previously suspected.
It He verified the agonizing transformation of the artist who becomes an entrepreneur, the writer who doubles as editor, the engineer dedicated to the fantasy of the inventions becomes a factory owner.
His romantic love for the sea and its adventures was now accompanied worries about the price and consumption of coal, on the rabid crowd that drove down rates, and the search for new ports to load early and rewarding.
The Fingal, which had been renamed by its new owner by the name of Mare Nostrum, in memory of his uncle, was a questionable purchase in spite of its low price.
Ulysses was excited as a navigator to see his high, sharp bow ready to face the worst seas fast ship its thinness, its amply powerful machines for cargo vapor, all conditions that had made him serve email for several years.
Consuming too devoted to fuel profit by transporting goods.
The captain, for his navigation, now thought only the food of the boilers.
He always seemed Mare nostrum going too fast. - Media Machine! - Shouted through the tube to the first mechanic.
But in spite of this precaution and others, fuel consumption was enormous when you the tonnage of a trip.
The vessel consumed all the profits.
His speed was negligible compared with that of an ocean liner, but it was absurd in relation to the vapors Merchant large and small machine quarter were seeking to charge any price all points.
Slave to the superiority of their ship and ongoing struggle with her, strove Ferragut keep browsing without major losses.
All waters of the world were devoted to Mare Nostrum to transport more rare.
Thanks to him flew the Spanish flag in ports that had not ever seen.
He travels the lonely seas of Syria and Asia Minor, to shores where the novelty of a vessel with fire was running and crowding to the people of rural hamlets.
Landings made Phoenician and Greek ports blinded by the sand, which retained only a few huts at the bottom of a heap of ruins.
Some marble columns stood still as palm trunks lopped.
Fearful breakers anchored beside the west coast of Africa under the sun I did burn the roof, to get rubber, ostrich feathers and elephant tusks brought by rowers in long canoes black.
Always out of a river town of crocodiles and hippos, on whose banks rose cones factory straw for their roofs.
When there were these trips outside the regular routes, Mare Nostrum was heading to America, resigning to fight cheapness with British and Scandinavians, who are the carriers of the ocean.
Tonnage and draft allowed him to overcome the great rivers of North America, reaching until the remote interior cities that are smoke rows of chimneys of its factories the edge of a freshwater lake become port.
Sailed up the Parana to Rosario and red Colastiné for Argentine wheat upload, anchored in the amber waters of Uruguay, face to Paysandu and Fray Ventos, getting naked for salted meat to Europe and to the West Indies.
In the Pacific went up the Guayas through a equatorial vegetation in search of Guayaquil cacao.
His bow cut the infinite blade Amazon, the giant trunks washed away by floods in the virgin forest to anchor in front or in front of Pará to Manaus, taking snuff and coffee shipments.
Even took German war supplies for the revolutionaries of a small republic.
These trips, which once enthusiastic Ferragut had final now as a disappointment.
After expenses paid and have lived in raging economy, there was hardly anything to the shipowner.
Were becoming more numerous cargo ships and freight cheaper.
Ulysses with its elegant Mare nostrum, could not fight the northern masters, drunk and taciturn, who accepted at any price to fill their ships sordid undertaking a march of turtles through the oceans. - I can not - sadly said to his mate -.
If I buy Mare nostrum, what I sell.
In one of his fruitless expeditions, when he felt more disappointment, unexpected news fared.
Had just arrived in Tenerife with corn and bales of alfalfa Argentina dry.
Toni returned to board after the ship's papers legalized. - The war, che! - Shouted in Valencian, the language of their privacy.
The freight tonne thirteen shillings to one hemisphere to another were now to be a memory embarrassing.
No charge would apply as from port to port as one who asks for alms.
Mare Nostrum was going to claim as if it were gold.
Most were mobilized by their governments for material transport huge demands of modern warfare.
Privateers German Using guile, prey increased with the panic of the merchant marine.
The freight prices jumped thirteen shillings a ton to fifty, then sixty, and to the few days to one hundred.
He could not go higher, according to Captain Ferragut. - You still go up - said the second with a cruel joy -.
And Toni used the plural when speaking of future wealth, but it occurs for a moment ask his captain a few cents more on the forty-five dollars he received a month.
The Ferragut fortune to ship and regarded it as theirs.
He esteemed himself fortunate if not short of snuff and could send your full salary to the wife and children, living there in the Navy.
His ambition was to all sailors modest: to buy a piece of land and be farmer in his old age.
He imagined a vineyard on the coast, a white house with pergola whose shade would smoke his pipe, and the whole family, children and grandchildren, extending the harvest passes over the hurdles.
He joined family Ferragut admiration, equal to that of former squire for his champion, to that of an old sergeant and an officer of genius.
The books that filled the cabin captain made him remember his anguish when examined in Cartagena to take title pilot.
Everything was work of the altar and the throne.
