His jokes were coarse and vulgar as to be tolerated among people decent.
Ever was on the money, that is, had a happy occurrence, but as a rule Generally, their pleasantry were pure and shameless smoothly.
The gathering, however, rejoiced at its entry.
One of them, the entry, with the little light there was and the voice mezzo-soprano that I spent, I have mistaken for a girl. - Man, no! - The banker exclaimed, laughing. - Man, yeah!
I'll ask him then that will not stop Julia have caught.
Both the hearing turned into the largest of Alcudia and were motionless, rigid, his eyes low as ever.
At the corner of his lips, however, a slight smirk wandered that showed no sister unreasonably trusted in their deep knowledge. - Hello, Ramoncillo - approaching said Maldonado and slapping him on the cheek with familiarity -.
And if you say these girls ....
A little skinny you are, especially from a season ago, but it will fold as soon as you pass it. - Do not have to spend anything ....
I know I'll never be as many pounds as you - said rougher. - Well, you have more weeds. - There we go, boy, do not come from Fanciullo echándotelas because it is very cheesy, especially front of these girls. - But man, you always have to be scolded! - Pepa Frias said -.
You end up soon to fight, because the two do not fit in the world. - Where no room for two - he said under Pinedo - is Calderon's home. - Not at all - said Cobo light, playful tone -.
At the same time, Ramon took the lead with both hands and shook it warmly.
This turned him down in a bad mood. - Remove, remove, do not be Sobon.
Cobo and Maldonado were close friends.
They had known since childhood.
They had been together in the College of San Antón.
After the company continued to maintain close relations, mainly in the Savage Club, where both devoted themselves.
As both pursuing the same profession, to walk on foot, by car and horse, as both attended the same houses and were every day everywhere, confidence was boundless.
He had always made between them, however, a graceful aggression as despised Ramon Cobo, And he who guessed, under constant guard.
They said a thousand outrages fought for hours, but immediately went out together drive as if nothing had happened, and cited for the time of the theater.
Maldonado took Cobo things seriously.
This is enjoyed in to contradict as saying, until I was getting irritating, to put it off though.
But the affection disappeared as both put eyes on the girl Calderón.
There was more than hostility.
Their relationship seemed to were the same; reuníanse at the club daily, often walked together, went to hunt Pardo as before.
At bottom, however, and cordially hated.
It appears that you are always nagging and making peace.
And he began to describe with enough grace the married life of her daughter.
The same is it that the husband were a couple of kids cuddly, unbearable.
Asked if he had not passed dish on time or had poured water into the cup on the buttons of his shirt, or no brushed clothing, or the salad had too much oil, reeds arming monstrous.
Sometimes he would spend six or eight days without speaking.
He had received an amazing grace and kindness.
tell you. - It's a secret - Well, but we will keep it ....
Almost never sat in the gatherings.
He had caught his enemy into the trap.
Julian scratching his head - than he had at home makes has long since disappeared
