Did he fallen below the vault and picked the best of their husbands?
XX After the brief spell that caused him so unusual noises, Rosalie ran to Gasparini, and there, Holy God, saw a show incomprehensible.
Bringas was in the middle of the room broken face, scary-pale, her hands clenched, his eyes wide open very open ...
A mueblecillo, that side of the table was the pileup of shellac and the alcohol lamp to heat, had fallen pushed by the artist when it is rose hastily from his chair.
The spirit spilled on the carpet burned vagorosa flame.
Candida dealt with swiftly when off, stepping, for which he had to rise skirts up near the knee.
Was jumping and went to the weight of your foot where the flame was alive, but also ran the floor shellac liquid hot which is very sticky substance, the soles of the venerable lady clung so heavily to the floor, I could not, without a medium effort, lifted.
Rosalie went straight to her husband, who, feeling around, grabbed her with anxiety seizure, and turning his eyes everywhere, seemed to find something that eluded him.
His face expressed terror so intense, that his wife did not remember seeing anything like it. "What ?...»-- was all her, her dismay, she could say.
Rosalie could not add anything, such was his terror.
Garcia the Great, who had mastered fire, but not completely prevent the adherence of his boots to the floor, went to pitiful group ... "That will not be anything" - he said noting that strange look of D.
Francisco. - Where is the window, the window ?...-- moaned the most desperately unhappy. - There, there, you do not see ?...-- Rosalie shouted, turning toward the light. - No, I do not see, do not see you, I see nothing ...
Well I told you, well you said it all ...
Rosalia was more dead than alive ...
Do not think of anything.
Candida, proceeding more calmly, he began to make arrangements. "Sentémosle on the couch ...
Palpable object, felt to his wife, or a point left him. "Well we told you - he repeated, drowning in tears and hiding the dissonance of the voice -.
That damn hair piece ...
working all day ...
If you could feel eyestrain, why Why continue? ". - My children, where are they? - Muttered Bringas.
Near the door were Isabelita and Alfonsin, terrified, silent, not daring to step: the small as the bread for a snack in hand, chewing slowly, the girl would be, with hands behind his back, watching the sad group of distraught parents.
I felt Bringas, diols thousand kisses, lamenting not being able to see, and predicting that no longer would ever.
More tears spilled the poor in that quarter of an hour in all his previous life, and Pipaón, considering that sudden misfortune that God sent him, conceptualized punishing the faults he had committed.
It was necessary to order out from there to young.
Retaining prudence in Furriel and not let them pass.
Inspired Isabelita care for fear that the strong impression he received a disorder produjese spasmodic more serious than previous ones.
You'll see how this tells us nothing.
I had a thing that I learned the point of Flanders.
I suddenly felt a disturbance rare At the hearing, then I began to see objects halved.
All stood in a sharp pain head.
I remember hearing my doctor say that in some cases is completely lost sight for a few hours a day ...
Serénese you, my friend D.
Francisco, and take a glass of water with a little wine.
Came out diligently, with sincere desire to serve, and not finding a doctor who lived in the house went to get the call.
While they were alone, Bringas and his wife barely spoke.
She could not stop looking at him, hoping that when he least expected it, they gain those astonished eyes the most precious gift for which they were raised, he began to exercise the sense peculiar to the blind, touch, and I saw her hands, and shaking it, and palpating loving and carefully.
A single word, sighs and lamentations of the poor sick were the only verbal expression of that sad scene, the more silent eloquent.
The doctor came at last.
Candida, would not let the hand to enter with him into the house.
It was an old affable, old-school, excellent diagnostician, shy to prescribe and as I said, unfortunate.
Aware of the history of the case, called evil retinal congestion. "In the retina - supported Candida -.
Soon regain sight, but the work of hair, buddy, you model terminated. " - If I say, if I announced - the Bringas said briskly, with the hopes revived giving the doctor -.
Also ordered black bandage, a soothing light for in case of insomnia, and offered to come early next morning to examine the eyes of the patient detention.
It was late, and last sunlight was leaving the room gloomily.
When the kindly old man withdrew, Brinker and his wife were more animated. "Nothing, my children, not be rushed - they said Candida, both of whose useful informal served as a great comfort -.
and sleep if you can.
Nothing to fear, or think as not to be.
Serenity and a little patience.
It's a matter of hours or a couple of days at most.
I undertake to bring medicines and as needed.
When the helpful lady came to the pharmacy, Rosalie and her husband had retired after to sell a large piece of black silk.
Like any fledgling blind, Bringas affected no need of foreign help to undress, and learning about the distress of his wife, had revive the heroism of loving expressions, as if he were a healthy and she's sick. "Probably this will happen ...
Not a chance I do not like this.
Relax, I'll take it patiently, and very nearly the beginning and to get used ...
I am very glad of not having to call an eye doctor as these, though healed, always cost an arm and a leg. " The night passed without any notable success, Bringas worried sick with excruciating pain cephalalgic and eyes, Rosalia awake, sharing their care and monitoring within the blind husband and epileptic girl, who was rushed to nightmares more alarming than those of ordinary scenes because of that afternoon vividly excited.
By that of all Candidita accompanied her troubled friend the night, comforting her with his presence and by paying very effective aid.
It was very typical for such cases and knew a thousand little things medical supplies domestic.
In the early settlement was difficult, never be cowed, nor his drumsticks known bone fatigue.
At dawn, more or less, Rosalia, losing sleep, fell asleep in a chair facing the bed marriage where Thiers good lay, dormant since, and so was the lady fall drowsiness that it will start to see the Torres and his famous beard and nose.
Also offered his view the sum, which was in part after part, developing their units on lengthy space and saw the urgent time that day that dawned threatening ...
Suddenly the wretched Recobrose opening his eyes.
Rosalia, but his dream must have been because the holy man seemed calm, measured breath and stated that at last he fell asleep really. "Torres ...
The thing was clear and easy.
What could not be done the day before, would at that as evil.
She had thought several times in the silver candlesticks, but How unselfish commitment to D.
May not be enough the product of the chandeliers for getting of the amount he needed, besides money Torres, he needed the second term of Sobrino Hermanos, decided to unite the above pieces of shiny silver screws that had ears, Augustine donation Caballero.
Bringas could not feel the need, and if by chance noticed by passing the hand through face, she would say anything, I'd say ...
That they had been taken as a sign of mourning.
Doña Candida was coming as a template for the credit operation planned.
Found her in the dining room, happy ever after, as savvy, as awake as if I had not had a bad night.
Rosalie took the point chocolate, so your friend hiciese his taste which had drinking.
While a respectable lady took care of this with the thoroughness that always put in such a pleasant operation, her friend took their projects.
Whispers were heard for a while intimate, and saw himself doing Candida head nod, enough to provide security to the same question. "Before noon you're all done.
For these things I'm worth yo a friend who is a lynx ...
This Maximo Manso called the second way to Dona Candida, and I note There was still a third way much more pathetic.
Everything was arranged, then, that morning so easily and quickly like there Grande García said, because they were not half past eleven when she was back with the money.
Took him Rosalia forward and was glad to have enough to meet Torres and Sobrino, atencioncillas maintaining a rest for a little more or less. "I do not know how to thank you ...-- said vehemently to his illustrious friend, shaking hands -.
Everything will soon return home, because I like my jewelry to make these trips; and only by a great need ...».
No one knows how he pushed the conversation to a certain apurillo who had, by calmly a rogue administrator ...
I do not like guests perpetual.
While in bed, gave his wife the keys to the drawer where he had money, but since it was raised again wanted to take up the reins of government and exercise that sovereign function, which is the most obvious attribute domestic authority
