Drops you who hurt me! - Who are you to take my hand paper? - Uttered in anger, turning this time really serious .-- Loose, loose, ugly parrot noses, silly! ...
But soon acquired this precious knowledge, as we shall see.
I was subscribed to newspapers in all colors, and equally enjoyed.
Back in his youth had sent two letters to a weekly newspaper that was published in Lancia, entitled The Fall, on the occasion of the annual festivals that are held in Sarrió September.
These letters leyéronse to fruition in the town and earned him quite a few congratulations.
This encouraged him to write three more the following year, informing the public of the number Amazing rockets that were fired Sarrió on 13, 14 and 15, the pretty little light of 16, and the lavish ball held at the Lyceum on the night of 17.
After having tasted the sweetness of advertising, Rosendo could not help tasting it from time to time.
The slightest pretext was enough to lead either a letter, sometimes a statement to newspapers.
Sometimes signed his name, others with any funny pseudonym or anagram.
Celebrating the skippers a party in honor of San Telmo: Rosendo immediately wrote a letter Lancia or the Progressive Bee, describing the festival, fireworks, Mass, the procession, etc.
It gave a banquet in the new school building to inaugurate: after three or four days, the newspaper received the usual letter Lancia publishing toasts and improvised sonnets.
It fell from a scaffold builder, reported Don Rosendo asking for more guarantees for the builders who put on the scaffolding.
Sung mass the son of Don Aquilino, Rosendo letter describing the moving ceremony, praising clear voice and sound and serenity of the young priest.
If the tides were high and strong and tore some stones from the tip of the Pawn; letter.
If the vessel refused Bilbao to take on board pilots Sarrió; statement.
If you missed the corn harvest drought; letter.
If the prevailing winds were from the Northwest; letter.
As he advanced in years Belinchón Rosendo, his letters gave a less romantic, if not frivolous (it would be as inaccurate as such disrespectful epithet applied to writings of that estimable gentleman).
That is, these issues were not so often the feast and recreation of the inhabitants of the town, as anything that would tend directly or indirectly to promote the moral and material from it.
One of them, of "vital interest to Sarrió" as he said very well, was the slaughterhouses.
Dear Sir: The choice with which you look at the physical and natural sciences, and in particular Health science as it influences the health of both peoples as the individuals, in view of its great practical value, has been slowly banish shyness of those who, influenced by a poor education and almost wrong, condemned the study of these great problems dragged by old and clumsy happily concerns will dispel the powerful breath of the nineteenth century, rightly called the Age of Enlightenment. " Don Rosendo paragraphs were always abundant as the previous.
Continued: "Today that civilization, broken the constraints holding back the consciousness and subject the spirit, opens vast field all through the press to express our free thinking and issue to the face of the world, trusting friendship with you I have always distinguished, and the leniency with which the public has received so far the humble birth of my pen, etc., etc. " After three or four paragraphs by way of preamble (that the director of El Progreso used to cut) Rosendo entered on the issue, studying the slaughterhouse or Macelo groups, as he named them, through all its stages, to come to condemn, in terms not gave rise to doubts, its location on the beach of Meanas.
His reasons for opposing it were "obvious." On the one hand, winds from the southwest, reigning most year, they pulled it foul miasma, etc.
In addition, the need to enter the cattle population, etc., Etc.
In addition, proximity houses, etc.
In addition, the injury to bathers are incurred, etc., Etc.
In end, were more than twenty reasons Rosendo "pointed in a light and brief" proposes to give "wider and development" in other letters successive thought 'disturbing the attention of the readers of your illustrious newspaper. " When finished reading, the deemed incontrovertible Gonzalo and Don Rosendo (with goggles at the tip of the nose) said that they had no turning back.
Having reached agreement so perfect, full of joy broke naturally.
Don Rosendo stayed in the office putting clean your letter.
Gonzalo went back to the sewing room.
However, before crossing the door, called his father to tell his future: - Of this, not a word to anyone, eh? - Don Rosendo, for God's sake - the young man raising his hand in protest.
