Copper were demons of limp and greasy long hair covered by a tape eager to increase with new cows and white females fortune of beasts and slaves who kept in their tolderías.
In this fitting uníanse the parishioners of the adjacent camps, running for shelter with their families at the bowling alley, the only brick building in many leagues around.
With they entered the crews of the strings of carts surprised by the raid in idle, grating, which lasted for weeks.
Sometimes the tornado passed by copper, attracted by the distant cattle estates; other laid siege to the store, eager for money rather than barrels of beer.
Seething horde around the bowling, which launched its openings barriques lightning lead.
The assailants, crawling, trying to set fire to its doors.
In moments of rest would kill the mares stolen nearby and drank blood from a drunken uproar fierce.
And this situation lasted for days, until it was news to the forts and other Troop noted in the horizon, composed of riders with old uniforms, armed worse and the swarm of mounted Indians, who fled to fill only anxious to put to save his booty.
And Manzanares had met his first hundred dollars, enduring beatings and stealing the body to the knife of the patrons drunk more fearsome than the Indians.
Upon returning to Buenos Aires, one of those diversions so common profession in the new lands, the server cane vessels and pieces of dried meat had entered into a luxury clothing store.
Your employer sent him traveling around the country, and so had known going into care, assault on the roads, sometimes by groups of indigenous, others' montoneras "guerrilla who stole from people in the name of a provincial leader or a political party.
There sleeping in the open, with no bed that the "message" of his horse in the cold land South, or surrounded by clouds of mosquitoes in the Northern fields.
He had helped many times with traveling companions, to pull the coach stuck in a quagmire they called road.
At other times he was surprised a growing water which drowned the draft animals. - I think, gentlemen, then I caught the rest of my days this disease of the stomach, ending me ...
I finally settle down, and I have my deposit in the streets Alsina, and Where you know, one of the best deposits wholesale fine clothing for ladies, and I have clients throughout the Republic and three hundred girls working in the workshops.
We not turn you, friend Goycochea: six million a year nothing but white clothes is an article that leaves more than others.
I'm going to Europe frequently, I visit our suppliers Hamburg, Milan and Paris, I hear the news, and every five or six years I look out Spain and live in my town for a few days.
The priest takes me a bit of money on the pretext of repairs in the church, the mayor asked me for school, for laundry, for a road, the pipers are all night outside the house, he plays he plays, waiting for the cider.
Nieces, who are I do not know how many, always ready to release a child into the world when I arrived, and they want America's uncle sponsored him.
Everyone seems thrilled that my wife did not have children.
When I was there last time, the mayor spoke of putting my name to a street and a tombstone to the shack where I was born ...
I can retire at any time, for children I have to maintain! ...
But I have my farm law, which started as a pittance and now occupies a quarter block.
In addition, I have a partner, who rides for the job: a former dependent who di participation.
You know you signature: Manzanares and Mendizabal.
Childlessness seemed bitter victory, placing him in resentful inferiority to the Basque prolific.
But as compensation, eulogized his wife, courageous partner the early years of poverty and saving.
Was a earth girl, who had ruled the house with fierce economy, ensuring that each dependent eat what is necessary to stand up, without harming surfeits to health.
The savings habit persisted in her fortune to live in full, with a fondness to mix their bare arms in the lower house chores.
And Manzanares, who had "Run world," and every year, on his way to Paris, he knew the Montmartre at night because "Man must see everything," began to believe that this fellow was not at the level of his success trade, and thus had to forgo displaying it - as he held his Goycochea - fearing certain neglect of their language.
But an old sense of gratitude and one's own aesthetic tastes made him break out in praise of her self esteem.
Besides being very good, still retains made a real girl. - It's like your wife, friend Goycochea.
Goycochea made a gesture of sorrow.
Reached even more, but Paris had put on a diet.
This man admired with enthusiasm skeletal concentrated, almost religious, the overwhelming feminine exuberance as a sign of health, good honor and domestic virtues ...
But Montaner, was considered humiliated by the silence he left his companions, stopped Manzanares.
He also "had done theirs." The Oriental Republic lend unless Argentina to the vagaries of fortune and quick success.
The money was slow in its progress, and maybe because it's happened more solid: people thought to hold more than acquire.
Could not talk of millions as the companions, but enjoyed a good move, since his death, children, if they were not ungrateful, would remember that "old" had worked ... - He is a great country, smaller than Argentina, but rich, very rich.
We are all beyond "white" or "red", and do not know what the hell is in the environment that those who come, wherever they are, learn to speak only take sides with one or the other.
I myself, gentlemen, I am "white" whiter than paper, more white ...
the milk, and my kids are too.
Two of them I went to the field in the last revolution.
And if you ask me what is it like to be 'White', I would say that after so many years I'm still well aware ...
And he related his arrival in Montevideo, forty years earlier, no other fortune than a cover letter for a Catalan set inside.
The country was in revolt, but the city had normal appearance.
The people were addressed in the street smiling, "What news of revolution? "the same as if they spoke of the rain or the weather.
And Montaner out on a diligence, as the only passenger, to the town where his compatriot. - A few hours later, men on horseback armed with lances, with red scarves around the neck, surrounding the procedure.
They left, and two hours later, near a ranch, find another game horsemen, with spears, too, and with those who seem petticoat breeches caragüelles collected in boots, but they wore white handkerchiefs around his neck.
And the same question: "What are you there? "And knowing that I was Spanish, smiles at the door the same as if she knew lifetime. "Lower, boy, down and relax, you're among friends.
Have a glass of cane ... "Since then I had no doubt knew what I had to be in that country: white, always white.
Now the years have brought some confusion, and people from all backgrounds contained in the two sides.
Fighting no quarter, in which prisoners were not being accepted! ...
Ancient armies are armies spears equipped with artillery, prisoners are respected, the war is over "civilization"; but the war continues, and I think people are killing it just for fun ...
The country has been accustomed to this life, and develops and progresses despite revolutions.
It's like some sick who finally understood their disease and live with it the most richly.
He spoke with resignation of the delays of his fortune because of the war. "White" and 'red', in his travels, he had eaten the best animals of their stay.
Many went to war for the pleasure of commanding with sword in hand, as if they were masters in the same land where they worked as laborers in peacetime, for the sake of killing a bull manor and eat the tongue, leaving the rest for the crows.
When resting, satisfied with his work, came one of many revolutions, and a group of supporters bivouacked on their land, changing the nag exhausted from the game for the best examples of the cabin.
And blooded animals died in the war or were abandoned on the roads, just as if they were beasts rustic meager price. - Total, some hundreds of thousands of dollars lost in a few hours - he said sadly -.
Many are excited about the exploits of both sides and see in them a continuation of value Spanish. "It is the heritage of Spain ', say' white 'and' red 'to justify the need felt by revolutions and coups.
I have tried in Paris Americans of Spanish origin of all altitudes and latitudes, and except for a minority who has studied all of the same run So, as if they taught this way of thinking in the school of first letters.
Spain is to blame for all his faults, responsible for all his faults.
She is the author of revolutions of laziness characteristic of warm climates of drunkenness to encourage cold climates; of unbridled passion to play on people who never tasted the pleasure reading; of unpredictability and lack of savings in countries accustomed to abundance.
What nice when did not get into business! ... - However - continued - if they praise a good quality race was attributed to the Indians and those who say that are grandchildren or great grandchildren of father and mother arrived Galician and Basque to America in the late eighteenth century ...
And if Indians are not the authors of good, hang the miracle of the 'Latin race', which is nothing more than a historical fiction.
The "Spanish race" something positive which all perceive reality in the language and customs barely set foot in America, just remember there and deserve when it comes to rail against the evil of the past.
The glory takes the "Latin race" that nobody knows what is and what it is.
In short, gentlemen, not be irritated.
Perhaps these injustices do not happen to be an instinctive manifestation old baby ...
disoriented, filial love turned upside down.
Isidro was interrupted, jumping from his seat to see what happened before the windows cap white doctor on board.
The concussion of the temple reminded him suddenly with an itch its intention to consult painful.
Coffee came out saying goodbye to their compatriots quick greeting, and reached the doctor, to show the livid bruise.
She wore healed some passengers who remained invisible in their cabins.
The Maltrana was negligible.
After tea time was waiting in the pharmacy.
Left alone approached the conservatory, looking into a window.
All were still occupying the same places: Ojeda Power and marriage Mrs.
Zurita talking to two of his compatriots "of things in the country." The father smiled Nelida through his beard of a patriarch, explaining to a group of friends with suggestive and soft hand wringing.
Perhaps exposing big business awaiting him in Buenos Aires, and who wanted to involve others generously.
Some passengers were removed, eyes narrowed by excess light, in search of his cabin for a nap.
Maltrana felt herself attracted by the sound of buzzing beehive under the big tent in the waist, between the central castle and the bow.
Could be seen through the interstices of people stretched canvas on her stomach, asleep with her head in her arms, women recosían old clothes chasing little boys.
When you open the gate had to apart a group of emigrants who crowded against the bars.
They were people girl, boys who were attracted by this obstacle, a visible symbol of the separation of classes.
Spent much of the day glued to it, exploring the long red carpeted hallway, intervals with large white patches of shadow and light electrical.
Doors first-class cabins were opened on both sides of this passage, which seemed to them endless and magnificent, like a boulevard populated by millionaires.
Spied on from there the incoming and outgoing passengers.
Continued to gaze admiringly at the rhythmic motion ladies who came out of the small houses to be lost in a maze of streets carpeted ascending to the upper floors of the ship, none of them had managed to see, and rumors coming music and parties.
Respect for social hierarchy urging them to stacked against the fence, as if she descry a higher world, keeping in envious silence every time a woman passed by close to them without looking.
When service needs were passing along this barrier to blonde waitresses, albo to clean apron and cap, the waiters seemed contemplative despair and a rumor word neighing scarves and waving his body contents.
Frequently appeared near the gate a nanny caring for a tiny German peliblanco and stubborn, which was playing on all fours on the carpet with a cub bear.
Some Arab tan thin nerve and remained silent, but advancing the neck as well as horses race, his eyes shining with a glow of coals murderer, showing his teeth anxious biting.
The Fraulein, straw-blond, plump and tight white meat, smiling naively, staying away from the fence, through whose iron groped the beasts.
But why he chose to flee, preferring to walk over, open air and light, stay in the half dark hall, where he received the homage shaky and exacerbated the male desire.
Her gray eyes and white face of a tender, such to a merengue, with visible pleasure hosting these words of tribute brutal languages ??could not understand.
Some of the boys, who were Spanish, treated with respectful familiarity Maltrana something that was thought "the most popular man in the vessel." - Don Isidro, bring us here to this Güena pa girl ...
See if there comes a alemanote of those and I long Smite by a pair of rascals
