Seemed hampered by his hidden iron legs and the pain of several bump.
We had a hand in the back to scratch with painful stretches, but he smiled, showing his yellow teeth of a horse. - Have you seen ustés that has estao Juan Bueno? - Told everyone around him -.
And he spoke quietly, as if he, in the drowsy you ever had wine and bestiality itself, could not surprise you anything. - Nah, you've seen Juan ?...-- continued -.
It has been lie down on the floor, Elante the bull, in hosicos themselves.
What hase hase that bowed not anyone ...
Peek a veil, which is now mu Guen.
They called from a door, which was nursing.
His partner wanted the chopper speak before he moved to the hospital. - Adio, Sena Carmen.
One fell to fratura, according to design.
This toa non-biting in the season.
Carmen took shelter under the arcades, trying to close their eyes to the disgusting spectacle the yard, but at the same time he felt drawn to the dizzying red blood.
The "wise monkeys' led by the bridle the horses injured, who dragged their guts on the ground, while dropping below the tail with diarrhea of ??fright.
Another held the reins of the animal and pressed down on the floor putting the sad head one foot on it.
Twitched his nose in a gesture of pain clashed long and yellow teeth with a shiver of martyrdom, lost in the dust the neighing, suffocated by pressure foot.
Fought the bloody hands of the healers to return to the open cavity the flabby belly, but the heavy breathing of the victim's swell, making them out of their confinement and scattering again as packed scraps.
And the bladder, with all his heart attached, finally disappearing into the depths of the belly, while two young men, with the agility of custom, sewing the skin.
When the horse was "fixed" with barbaric quickly, he threw a bucket of water head, freedom legs of interlocking straps and gave him a caning to be put in place.
Some, barely walked two steps, hung round, spilling gush of blood from the wound sewn with twine.
Discover the secrets manteníanse strong force animal resources, and the servants, after the "settlement", they carried the "barnizaje" flooding their legs and bellies violent ablutions with water buckets.
The white or brown color of the animals was bright, his hair dripping with pink liquid mixture of water and blood.
Mending the horses as if they were old shoes, exploiting his weakness to the last time, prolonging their agony and death.
Many times, the tragic emptiness of lost organs remediábanlo barbarians healers with handfuls of rags placed on the belly.
The important thing was to keep these animals stand a few minutes more, until picks get back out on the square: the bull is in charge of finishing his work ...
And jacos dying suffered without protest the grim transfiguration.
Those who were resuscitated limping with loud strokes of the cane, they trembled from the legs to the ears.
A horse meek, in despair of his misfortune, tried to bite the "wise monkeys' approaching.
Still kept his teeth and hair flaps of skin cells.
To feel the tear of horns on its belly, the wretched animal had bitten the bull's neck of lamb with a fury rabid.
Sadly injured horses neighing, lifting the tail with noisy exhaust gases; stench of blood and feces scattered around the patio plant, the blood was between stones, blackening on drying.
There were exclamations of concern; a "ay!
Ay! "Launched by thousands of mouths, I did guess the leak harassed banderillero closely by the bull.
The man turned to the beast, and burst the thunderous applause greeted a couple of flags in place.
Ignored the order would to continue the slaughter in their work.
I wanted to escape to escape this torment.
Moreover, the anguished blood that ran through the courtyard, the torment of these poor beasts.
Sublevábase female delicacy against this torture, at the same time it carried the handkerchief to repel odors smell of carnage.
The first bull was dead.
Were opened at the bottom of the passage of the door Stables fences that connected with the ring, and came with more intensity noise of crowd and the echoes of the music.
The mules were in the square: a lashing to pick up dead horses, another to take dragged the corpse of the bull.
Carmen was coming under the arches to his brother.
He was still shaking with excitement I had seen. - John ...
Colossal Is this late as ever.
Y as they walked towards the door where he could leave calculated Carmen to return as before the square.
And after the second bull, Gallardo still leaning on the fence, received congratulations of his admirers.
The whole square will had welcomed the first bull, forgetting his anger in the previous runs.
Falling a picador being spiritless by the terrible shock, Gallardo had come with his cape, taking the beast in the center of the ring.
Were some arrogant veronicas eventually leave the beast still and tired after stirred after the deception of red cloth.
The bullfighter taking advantage of the stupefaction of the animal, was erected a few steps from his nose, pulling belly as if he defied.
Felt "a feeling" happy harbinger of great daring.
Had to conquer the audience with a touch of audacity, and knelt before the horns some caution, ready to rise to the slightest attempt to rush.
He moved a hand to touch your mouth drooling, and the animal did movement.
Then the audacity to something that engulfed the audience in a throbbing silence.
Slowly lay down on the sand with the binder in the arms serving as a pillow, and so was a few seconds he lay under the nose of the beast, sniffing it with some fear, as if he fears a danger in this body who boldly stood with their horns.
When the bull, recovering his fiercely aggressive, down the shafts, the bullfighter rolled to the feet thus putting out of reach, and the animal passed over him, looking vainly blindness in the package the fierce rushing.
Gallardo got up, wiping the dust, and the public, the frightened lover, applauded with the enthusiasm of the past.
Himself was applauded, admired its own majesty, guessing that the boldness of the bullfighter was to reconcile with him, to win back his affection.
Gallardo came to the race prepared to the highest daring to win applause. - It ignores - said in the stands -; often is weak, but is ashamed bullfighter and again by name.
The enthusiasm of the public, his lively agitation to remember the feat of Gallardo and accurate lunge with the other teacher had killed the first bull in a bad mood trocáronse and protests to see the second in the ring.
It was huge and beautiful picture, but running through the center of the square, looking in amazement at the noisy crowd in the stands, afraid of the voices and whistles that excite you and wanted to escape his own shadow as if he guessed all sorts of pitfalls.
Rushing the red flag, following it for some moments, but suddenly gave a snort of surprise and turned his back room, running in different directions with violent jumps.
The coats of the teachers finally got pulled into the barrier, where they hoped the choppers, motionless on their horses, with the pole under his arm.
He approached a rider with his head down and fierce snorts as if to attack.
But before that iron sank into his neck, jumped up and fled, passing between the layers that tended the pawns.
Then met with the third rider, which, moving the pole, was bitten on the neck, increasing with the punishment his fear and speed.
The bull ran, chased by the fighters, who were after him layer with the arm.
Tended the public body forward as if to jump into the ring, wanting to smash with their hands to evil beast.
The flags of fire was an extraordinary spectacle, something unexpected that increased the interest of the race.
Many protesters until they were satisfied with their hoarse Inside this incident.
Iban to see the bull roast in life, running wild with terror rays that hang from the neck.
National outstanding increased by bringing their hands, pointing down, two thick flags that appeared clad in black paper.
He went toward the bull without great care, as if his art deserved any cowardice, and thrust his infernal sticks to cheers revenge of the crowd.
There was a click as if something breaks, and two jets of white smoke began to emerge on the neck.
With sunlight could not see the fire, but the hairs disappear charred and black spot spread on the neck.
He ran the bull surprised the attack, accelerating his escape, as if it could escape torment, until he suddenly began to pop into your neck like blasting dry rifle shot, flying around his eyes the burning ashes of paper.
Jumped the beast with the agility of terror, the four legs in the air while twisting in horned head vain to tear his mouth those demons clinging to his neck.
It seemed that ran animal performing a dance of the awkward heaviness of its volume. - How to itch! - Exclaimed the audience with laughter fierce.
Ceased to roar and popping the flags.
Char boiled the neck with bubbles fat.
The bull, not feel the burning fire, stood motionless, breathless, his head humiliated, producing a dry tongue, dark red.
Another banderillero approached him, driving a second pair.
Resurfaced jets Smoke on the charred flesh, they heard the shots, and the bull ran again, struggling bring your mouth to neck twisting its massive body, but now the movements were less violence, as if his vigorous animal will begin to get used to martyrdom.
Even drove in a third pair, and his neck was charred, spreading in a circle stench of melted fat, skin and hair burned consumed by fire.
The audience continued applauding vengeful frenzy, as if the opponent was a gentle animal their beliefs and do holy work with this burning
