And at the end, Don Benito wrung me in his arms and against his chest, and I do not I could hold back the tears that sprang to my eyes.
The gilded youth of 52 years founded the center of good tone, mainly Creole, which has not nor ever had the distinction aristocratic English club or one of the chic clubs Paris.
And a fine view of Don Benito, almost imperceptible, I extended my arm and White hung him with a frank and sweet abandon.
Could not be more like a portrait Fernanda.
For me, White was a true resurrection the past, the same apparent coldness of the mother, the same pale almost matt the great Fernanda and shaded eyes, and a bust that exposed a cleavage in which a preponderance nerves over meat.
Finally, an arm that could be a bit long, but, under Thin, loose suede glove, I did not know what voluptuous charm, a thousand times more attic pure than revealing a well-shod foot covered by a dark silk stocking.
The white dress was an antithesis to his serene pale: a short skirt of silk tulle tan, strong, determined as a mysterious lines tracing the body, leaving see under the hem satin shoe the same color, very low cut, which appeared the most beautiful and attractive woman's foot.
An enclosed fire velvet gown just the mystery of his chest, leaving guess bold lines of her breasts high and upright like the Venus de Milo.
In the two head gold combs held blameless simplicity kill her blond hair, and beyond the numerous bracelets chains around his arms, not a single jewel, not one flower, not a single ornament, looked at the woman. - What a splendid waltz! - I said - let's dance, I can not resist ...
The close liaison and imagination had to bring me, like a breeze at that time, the Fernanda sweet perfume.
White rested his cheek on my shoulder, the spring contact her breasts shook my chest, take her hand tightly around her waist and flexible and admirable lewd dancing took away in his whirlwind.
Danced like a white old English strain, without reservation, but without the crass materialism of a mundane, from time to time, undulating ups and downs of the waltz in which the bodies glide with the music, we joined involuntarily and I felt this thrill inexplicable that produces the struggle of the timidity with boldness, when the body of a young and beautiful touches and calcined clay this miserable human they are made of all beings from Satan to San Antonio.
The waltz came to an end, my companion had given me completely.
In sickness their last turns intoxicating, discerned the face of Don Benito, Fernanda arm We watched with a smile Mephistophelian at the time that the echo of the violins was extinguished, White tired and fell voluptuously on a sofa caught her and swung a moment in their springs and elastic flexible. - But You waltz like no ...
