"Tristezón and acobardao", as was another man.
The cough choked night, and spent in the air half of them. "Entrol malenconía" of the darkest, and if I came not to go to his side, he is "like sighs." "This, and too" God knew how far the car would not mired forever.
Aggravated they had taken from my room with the spread of the facia, I withdrew from her comfort with two formulas, which for me would have liked me, and went straight to the kitchen.
IV My uncle was there, sitting on the bedside chair, and left in the bank that followed immediately, a very big parish priest, with cassock of cloth, velvet cap worn, and hands a very severe cachavona; border to two, with the fire between them, another character even bulkier than the parish priest, head gray and fat, sallow face and eyes bulging at the same bank, but a respectful distance from the subject, Chisco wiping the mud off their legs by the fire, and beside her, and crouched on the floor without disturb anyone, with a wooden spoon in the right hand and left handle a pan placed on the trivet, a young man of blue eyes, beautiful and abundant hair blonde and body well into meat.
When you get me in the kitchen, stopped the loud clamor of conversation that I had committed similar dispute since the passage immediately, and everyone in the group is faced with me suddenly.
Descubrimerlo me then and walked a few steps to the plateau of the stove. - Hello, hello - my uncle said to me -.
And come looking for the grace of God, eh?
You, Chisco, take it the spotlight that comes in hand ...
Go - she added, looking alternately the Priest and the big man from another bank - here you have it already: this is my nephew Marcellus, the son My late brother Juan Antonio.
because I warn you not drop a quarter of the three drives and a half ...
Good friend, good adherence to their duties, though, and very learned in Latin of all kinds ...
and put a bullet in the heart of a bear without a pulse shake him ...
The Cure released here a laugh that echoed through the funnel of the chimney, and even mumbled a breviary Latinos could not understand.
Men - said facing him suddenly with him - will you let me give all your passport once, to finish first and understand each other better?
You know that I have learned well in memory ...
The hombrazo bank shifted its growling a bit and finally said, his voice hollow and resonant: - In the passport you call it kind of offends me, and always to be affixed sunlight itself: well you know.
Beyond that you see, and no more to say. - Well, listen, Marcelillo, which goes beyond the document: Don Pedro Nolasco of Castañalera, was mayor of the Royal Valley in 1832, alderman in 1800 thirty, deputy mayor in 1827, trustee in 1825, former employee in the laundry room of Messrs.
but against the "command and control" of the auction, protest once, twice, and two million of them. - It appears from the papers - said my uncle with great fortitude. - And much has - said Don Pedro Nolasco - but with your account and reason in groups I published at the time, when things were a firmer step now ...
Yes, sir; there was good and at the point, but it is not where you just put it with bad intent Did you have always ... - That is aggrieved! - Cried my uncle smothered by coughing. - Of that I'm missing you I'm complaining for no reason yo! - I have not missed! - I sure did!
The thing about curling was really down this path, but with the intervention Cura and mine conjuróse time the storm, which was not new in that kitchen between the same opponents, as I later learned, because the two were sour-tempered, and Don Pedro Nolasco things a continual temptation to the spirit of my uncle's cunning.
Posts in peace very soon, he continued: - By the way, take me two years to date, although Deny drag, without a hint of fear of God, and already has four consecutive hard right weight.
Was always much wineskin, good appetite and better behavior.
So he has come so here, not a bad gripe.
Never addiction took him as the priest, to the big game ...
in the brambles, you understand, because the edge your home or fireside, an ox is zampa two sittings, if he is offered.
For that and other things, well we call that we want, not that bad I take no offense, "Marmitón." - Celso! - Don Pedro Nolasco here roared, kicking at the edge of the plateau in supporting feet, shod in sneakers black belts, the same as the parish priest and my uncle.
And then I noticed that underneath I was wearing slippers alagartadas mean, green, large black dots. - That's all you ugly, except the face - my uncle said to him quietly -: the great ...
In a javelin that point you jealous, maybe a joke.
Swindling of demons, "because I've got you and me so much, since over the other?
Well, with these bristles and all, is the neighbor of the people noblón the best friend of his friends, and it's grapes from our vine.
Take heart in hand and give the skin when there is no layer from the poor.
I tell you, Marmitón of demons, but hit me - he said turning to the giant -, I'm telling you, cuartajo!, I, I have good evidence to be true: and I say to the soul and life.
There is no getting around it, Deus in nobis est, semper et located.
And if not, poor us each bungling of that weapon Satan in the disputes of men. - Well, well - my uncle said, turning to his friend who jokes or moved, with big eyes fixed on the fire -.
Now I want you to stay to dinner with us, not for me I do not deserve, but to honor my nephew. - A good time! - Murmured the giant stirring a little look into Don Celso and unloading much the celajes of his face. - Do you mean because you eaten yet? "- Replied my uncle. - Naturally. - Well, for that matter, because I assumed, you invited me.
In stomachs like yours, called prime prime ...
And to encourage you and make it more round and full tonight, I also invited you, Priest. - That's another thing - then Don Pedro Nolasco said, going straight to the imagination -: if It is ...
We denied the Cure to it in all earnest, but insistently my uncle and I commit myself also accepted at the end. - Have you heard, Tona? ...
Well Bring the story to Facia to put two dishes on table, and you add what is missing, if it is missing something in the kitchen.
Tona said that was left with what was leaning over the fire, where everyone ate "As God commanded," and my uncle, while the big man with hoarseness received the conditional the servant had cast his eyes thither, gave the history and topped ordered it was another fun.
Or both were not even for my taste, the few that surfaced later, as the blonde Bouncers and Facia, the gray woman, who was in and out often, they gave the last arrimados condumios touches on fire.
For my part, and 'to get by in the conversation » I had to provide, at the behest of the priest and Don Pedro Nolasco, four vague on "These worlds of God, for which both had been shot in the words of the same gentlemen, and less concerned and that at first as there was, and being able to bring my attention to other terms of the box, I noticed, among other things, that Chisco Tona and took no part in it than with the eyes and the occasional laugh or cry, and that such a servant, for her face and her figure, from head to toe, in short, was what was called a good girl. - You see - even told me my uncle - who here does not hang out too bad, after the fact man these things so different from "beyond." And better yet passed, as you go see, for tonight does not rule: it is not that time today, they do not press the cold and much of the corn without leaves, and we have leafless, because first things first, but allow yourself to run day and the sky begins to turn brown and "Rebombo" the Pozon Pena Sagra, piece of junk!
people come and see this kitchen, until he night not fit in these banks, each with its accoutrement and its theme ...
montuna all people, for cash: jastialones pure.
We must arm ourselves sometimes much stamina, yes, because in a flock, Zanchetta!
Not all beasts are in the same condition, but the best times are the most, and as not ask camuesa chestnuts ...
Come on, you have to entertain, if you accustom to it ...
and God will do so. - Well not to jacerlu! - Don Pedro Nolasco said, surprised that it was doubted he had the indubitable. - A morning usque ad noctem custody speret Israel in Domino - Don Sabas confirmed - without counting with what I have said and I never tire of repeating: Deus in nobis est, and therefore should not despair of anything that is honest, convenient and good man according to the holy law of God.
This occurred in the instant Chisco, mandated by Tona, was approaching the wall I had been in front, which was adapted a board, he loosened the Taravilla held above, you spun on the axle was in the down side, and left him horizontal position supported by a tentemozo.
Requesting information on the use of that unit, I found that the table was 'lazy' to my uncle who had alluded in the dining room. - And why they put it now? - Ask. - For dinner the servants as soon as we get the hell out of here - he answered.
I liked the device, which was armed with a short distance from hearth novelty tentóme that, certainly I think the good joined notorious Don Pedro Nolasco. - As for me - my uncle said with firm resolve - to lift the cloth at the other table and tend to it.
For give you a taste, I sent to dine there: you know that mine is very different.
Also, for what I have for dinner ...
Agreed, at my request, that for the night stay the way things were, dining forth in the lazy and leaving the dining room table for lunch, she stooped down its pedestal Don Pedro Nolasco, and left the kitchen, the four people in swath, Tona following we lit the way with a candle that had lowered the hood the fireplace.
And what happened while I was dreading doing, for what had been observed around the fire and the chores of repolluda cook, that dinner was ready in my honor to serve as a temptation rather than terror and solace to my diner swallows, made and tasty seasoned to the kitchen parvidades mundane.
Start counting by covered and two silver spoons fashioned way, a loaf of bread "home" eight glasses green glass bottle and a very black, all he had and was appearing on the table was solid and big and rich to the unbelievable.
First, a bucket of milk soup, then a very serious source of a turnip soup salad, then an omelette of bacon, followed by a spicy offal, and, finally, a huge apple compote, and much cheese from sheep.
The only thing in short supply there were light and heat because of the oil lamp wicks was almost lost in black space before reaching the table, and chamuscón that I had given me in the kitchen only served in the dining room to feel doubly glacial temperature of that wilderness.
The Cure, contrary to what I expected from their size, ate nothing but regularly, and was clean and rested in the eating.
My uncle tried everything not like anything, and I satisfy my need, more than appetite, twelve hours, almost as much as the sight of abundant food, as the parvidades that they took ...
I had no measure their calo stomach vulture devoured up to the eyes, and much that does not fit in the mouth while worked his throat, Corriale in rivulets on the outside to sink under the sobarba between leather jacket, or mixed dropwise with the filth of the vest.
