The same is true with the scene, wonderful land, Palestine, the kingdom of Navarre, the rule Great Khan's palace of Macedonia, not only ignores and misrepresents the surface of the land but also the planetary system undergoes a radical change.
Palm trees grow and tamarind around Moscow, Palestine and Macedonia are covered with meadows and Norway and Switzerland, appear whales in the Mediterranean.
Events that begin a morning in Macedonia, they end up in the most natural on the evening of that day, in a palace Babylon, and a princess of Aragon, caught in the evening in Sicily, half discusses night without an interpreter with a Moor in Samarkand.
The Passion, a work in verse in different Filipino dialects, is not only the Passion of Christ but includes a kind of short of sacred history.
Novenas are booklets devotees dedicated to a saint whose favor is invoked to obtain This or that God favors.
Consist of a set of sentences with regard to miracles and reflections on them are made every day for nine consecutive days. "It is attributed to the Virgin Mary the origin of the ninth, because she worships the number nine in memory of having been nine days which was prevented for the Incarnation of the Divine Word and also for the nine months brought in her virginal womb. "(Novena to Jesus, Mary and Joseph.
Manila, 1903, in the Exordium.) Novenas offer a means of reaching the sky very simple what is asked them to patron saint.
The defendant filed lead to a poor man living in Cuzco, and this was precisely the same man who stopped to witness the spectacle of the cemetery. "By going the just judge to pronounce against him sentence of death and damnation, Mary and Saint Joseph knelt before the Divine Master asking for it, claiming he had often relied on their most holy calling names thereunder * * *. "Having Jesus denied his forgiveness, his parents returned beg, and seeing that failed to soften for forgiveness, the Blessed Virgin Blessed showed his son the breasts that had suckled, and showed him the Holy Patriarch hands that had supported his work. "(p. 8.) Jesus then pardoned by a grace that can only be called stomach grateful.
Another notable case Another notable case of the effects of the invocation is a Dominican friar Fray Juan Masias who, for over twelve years, being in his dark cell, in prayer, it came to him many demons and dragged him and treating him badly pounded word and work, but that he was free from them saying: "Jesus the Savior, Mary and Joseph are with me." Other demons were sometimes much crowd and noise and taking him by the feet he drew dragging the bedroom to the cloister, a slap and beat him, others stepped on his stomach and head, others scratched his face and threw out his eyes, but invoking the names Jesus, Mary and Joseph, came and left him. "(p. 14.) The most admirable is that the monk had suffered the invocation after the abuses mentioned, so I had the condescension to allow the demons for some time to have fun at his expense.
Economic Fun At the same monk, "at other times of prayer going to church, demons caught him and pulled her, and threw him into the air so high, passing over the roof of the hall Chapter House, which divides the first cloister of the second, coming this fall.
Not only puts the Devil among the enemies of the soul, with our own body and humanity, but which always tremble with their wiles, we consider weak to resist and even seem to fear that God himself does not know how to defend the devil, because at every step fuel is God and put it on guard against the power of hell. "Assist us enabling from heaven, our deliverer very strong in this struggle with the powers of darkness; and as once freed the Infant Jesus of imminent danger to life, and now stand God's Holy Church from the snares of his enemies and from all adversity, and each us protect us with perpetual sponsorship * * * "(p. 54). (Offering to the Blessed.
Rosario Manila, 1905.) The Devil's obsession leaves no man day and night, "Mercy, my God, I get hit the devil, all day challenges and disturbs me, "read a prayer of St.
Another miracle The next miracle reveals the tricks of the devil and shows at the same time that souls can not be as readily condemn the deadly comes to protecting a powerful patron. "True Man, it says on the Ninth of San Vicente (p. 15), gave the devil his soul with signed card from his hand, and listening to preach the Holy begged hiciese the devil is the restituyese.
Holy stood in prayer and brought the devil visibly and ordered him to hand over the card to the man, witnessing this miracle many thousands of people. " Simplicities of saints This fear of the devil is mad because of some errors as mentioned in the following miracle (Nine of San Vicente, pg. 18). "In Trayguerra hearing a simple young man preach San Vicente the ugliness of evil, asked God to show him to quarrel with him.
Happened to pass a poor old, born dumb, ugly and poorly dressed, carrying a sickle in his hand.
Judging the lad who was the devil, acometióla furious quitóla sickle and reaped the hands, ears and noses.
Cried the distraught woman, as voices could not move, was howling and then the simple stabbed him, saying, Come and see what put the devil. "Believing that God allowed such infamy, is a gross insult to God.
It is true that the act was running a simple boy, but is simpler than the work of the Holy in speaking of the physical ugliness of the devil, when, according to all understand, the devil is a spirit. "In Taula, says the Ninth (p. 21), spent two Moors before an image of San Vicente, one took off his hat, the other not.
Presto paid for it: for the moment, without knowing by whom, gave such a blow, which fell to the ground, gave him a fever and she died. "It is admirable how he knew that was a slap, and could not be more cruel miracle, not by the insignificance of failure, as for being a Muslim or believe or understand that the Christian superstition.
A devotee who resorts to Santa Filomena, asks your protection against the devil (Ninth, pg. 22) and says: "Satan as a hungry lion, turn around; his ministers are encouraged each other to break me, my weakness I am also the enemy of my very soul * * *. " As I said, novenas serve to implore God's mercy using intervention of a saint or the Virgin, and to get a need or a whim in life.
After a long period, returned to earth just as he had ascended to heaven, spoke in the presence of the Patriarch the Emperor, all the wondering multitude, who had heard the angels sing this concert: Holy God, Holy Mighty, Holy Immortal, have mercy on us. "The child then died.
The Emperor ordered that all sang a sacred song, and immediately stopped earthquakes and quieted the weather disturbance. "Hence the use of Trisagio as a form for invoking the Holy Trinity in dire and fateful times "(p. 78.) Among other things called for in the Trisagion restricted to the following: "In your anger and Anger: Three and Lord deliver us - From the snares Triune God .-- From the snares and vicinity the devil * * * of all anger, hatred and malice * * * Of plagues, plague, famine, earthquakes * * * From our enemies and their machinations, save us "(pp. 20-21).
Memories of cannibalism Although Trinidad is composed, as we know, Father, Son and Holy Spirit, and Trisagion is invoked and calls on the three people at once, however, there are other ways to achieve separately invoking divine favor to a single person of the Trinity.
Thus, the ninth of Jesus in the Eucharist is called the Father through the intercession of the Son, or better that, in just a viscera of the Son, an organ of his body, the heart, or more properly, Sacred Heart of Jesus
