The people, oppressed, exploited, oppressed, unable to believe or expect anyone to be debased idleness soup favored by the foolish, asking after their outrage and skepticism in sayings that said, in a long generation there is a priest and a thief, never less thing vide that good priests and bishops, to the devout man's door do not put your grain to the sun denies sermon that ends in horse trading, it seems silly and ask for the spirits, put your trust in the Virgin and do not run.
The King, to hide their sins, was professed by many of his bastard children, and rich men were ruined by comic graft in courtesans, such as Mary Beson, "that French wine so full of coats and disease ", or Antonia Infante, who used in bed sheets black silk.
And that nation, such a court.
Madrid, poverty consumed by any pretext burned at parties.
In Hall, as soon as spent millions to host a foreign prince as a Jester had to pay two to buy real candy to the queen, soldiers, without pay, was stabbed in the streets, as they came the news that the French or Flemish we were defeated in the English countryside and we had pirated the seas.
Philip IV had fun in the solemnities of the Church, the ceremonies of the palace, in the quarters of the theater, in groves of Retiro, the vulgar commenting enjoyed high and low adventures big and small, and the clergy to absolve them all around as long as no prejudiced their income or attack their jurisdiction.
Don Carlos Padilla and the Marquis de la Vega de la Sagra die on the gallows for trying to rebel against King, the Duke of Híjar, accused of trying to rise with Aragon, suffers torment, the Grand Duke Osuna suspected dreamed of the throne of Naples, giving the opportunity to tell Villamediana: Naples also tell that Osuna looted: I believe so if the Duke was a pasha; not because it is rich usurped property of others: before, Kind regards, was so humble, that the King, office of Viceroy gave and ran for two points less.
The Marquis of Ayamonte expired on the scaffold, shown their involvement in this plot hatched Andalusia to independent republic, and which said: Just wanted to of Medina Sidonia raise some of this land, because they have lost all.
Finally, in Catalonia, the most illustrious families, siding with the people, become against the Crown, and in Portugal, the Duke of Braganza, in obedience to the promptings of woman who said, "I want to be king over an hour Duchess life ', it is sovereign the name of John IV.
What mistakes would not be the monarch, when Canovas del Castillo, Stages in the reign of Philip IV, said: "No point in the history of Spain appears as learned as only idleness, ignorance, the desire for enjoyment of Philip IV, together with the incompetence and tyranny of Olivares, the chief minister, were the causes the lifting of Portugal in 1640. " Courts dead, suffocated municipal independence from Charles I, absorbed vitality of the towns and cities by the centralizing spirit of the private, and despised the work for misleading abundance of gold that came from America, our power crumbled to be turned into rubble which was superb monument.
But as a consolation to such shame, as in recovery from kingdom caught and humiliations, in our intellectual history were two glorious demonstrations Spanish genius: the extraordinary richness of literary production and flowering painting.
Lope and Cervantes, Velazquez and Murillo, recovered for Italy in domains of beauty and supremacy estimate that we lost in the political and material by inadequacy and turpitude of the high branches of government.
II QUICK MEMORIAL TO OUR PAINTING late sixteenth century.
