As if the layers would be purchased the same as buying a newspaper!
And while came the gorgeous gift, was narrowing the privacy, and the "boyfriend" was borrowing her friend, and if I had money, insisted a jewel, and impulses of trust, was pocketing what was the scope of his hand, and when she wanted to leave the dream of love, protesting such freedoms, the handsome demonstrated the vehemence of his passion and became for their legendary hero prestige by giving it a beating.
You the conoses.
I ment that can happen to a Christian is to shrink to some women.
Naively admired the lack of scruples of these young men, who lived to make contribution the illusions of the foreign way, and he pitied himself recalling his weaknesses with some women.
These distractions offered treatment with some bullfighters uníase stickiness of some enthusiastic chasing him with their prayers.
It was an innkeeper of Sales, Galician, of strong muscles, short neck, ruddy color, who made a small fortune in his tent, where dancing on Sundays servants and soldiers.
He had more than one child, and this boy, small in body and weak texture was destined by his father to be one of the great figures of bullfighting.
The bartender, great Gallardo enthusiast and all the swords of fame, he had decided so. - The boy is worth - say -.
I got me, that I spent a lot of money for giving career but need a sponsor whether to go forward, and nobody better than you.
Would the sea of ??people, I would bear all expenses.
But it went ahead, feeling encouraged by the commercial spirit, did you cope with failures in the hope of huge profits when your child was a killer lineup.
The poor boy, who in his early years had shown hobbies bullfighting, like most of the youngsters in their class, now a prisoner of enthusiasm could be seen from the father.
This was seriously believed in his vocation, each day discovering new powers in it.
His diffidence of mind was taken as laziness, fear, shame and lack of a bullfighter.
A swarm of parasites, Fans without a profession, not dark bullfighters kept their past another reminder that queue, agitábase around the tavern, drinking and requesting free small loans for their advice.
Formed together with the father a deliberative assembly, no other purpose than to inform the public the "star" of bullfighting lost in the dark of Sales.
To roll down the sand, with calzones, stained with blood and dung, you had to pay the value of entries of the square, taking care the same right or his representative to put the tickets.
I have also to me, I am able to spend every last penny to make career.
Stayed the innkeeper between the barriers during the run, encouraging the sword with his presence and the gestures of a big stick that never left him.
When the boy was at the bull and sword wielding crutch, his face pale and shaky legs, the father was followed in its evolution from behind the barrier.
He was always before his eyes, like a threatening teacher, soon to correct the slightest carelessness in the lesson.
What I feared the poor right-hander, shut up in his red silk dress with big hits gold, was returning home in the afternoon that his father frowned, showing discontent.
He entered the tavern, covering herself with the rich and dazzling coat fragments shirt that he escaped through the cracks of the pants, still aching bones due to rollovers he had given the bull.
The mother, strong woman and bad-looking, ran to him with arms open, touched by the excitement expected during the afternoon. - Here you have this bag! - Roared the barman -.
Angry rose up the awesome club, and the man dressed in silk and gold, which had killed shortly before two little beasts, tried to flee, hiding his face behind his arm, while the mother stood between them. - But can not you see is hurt? - Hurt! - Father exclaimed bitterly, lamenting that it was not true -.
But a few days, the landlord regained his confidence.
And organized runs in the streets of Toledo and Guadalajara, appearing as entrepreneurs his friends, but "at his own cost 'as usual.
His bull-in the old town of Madrid was, according to the bartender, the most famous is had seen.
The sword, by chance, killed two bulls medium, and the public that had gone largely free, applauded the child from the bartender.
A father appeared out captaining a noisy troop of gulfs.
Just pick to all who wandered around the square and that it had slipped taking advantage of the lack of vigilance on the doors.
The bartender was a formal man in his dealings.
Fifty cents per head, but with the obligation to shout out, to be hoarse, "Long live the Handyman!" And shoulder the glorious bullfighter just come out of the ring.
Tinker, still trembling at the recent dangers, he was surrounded, pushed, lifted high and the noisy rascals, and so carried in triumph marched from the square to Sales by the end of the Calle de Alcala, followed by the prying eyes of the people of trams they cut the glorious manifestation disrespectfully.
The father walked satisfied, the stick under his arm, pretending to be oblivious to this enthusiasm, but when you let up crying, ran the group head, forgetting all caution, with the rage of a businessman who not give the genre its share of their money.
The same was the sign: "Viva the Handyman!" And the ovation reanimábase strong bellows.
You see if it will be the guy ...
Just needs a holder: that you lend a hand.
And Gallardo, to get rid of the innkeeper, he answered with vague promises.
Perhaps accept as to lead the herd.
One evening at dusk the sword into the street of Alcala through the Puerta del Sol, gave a step back from the shock pulse.
A blond lady came down from a carriage at the door Hotel de Paris ...
Dona Sol was torero no doubt of their identity.
Nor did it question the nature of the relationships that they should unite with this stranger, after seeing their eyes and the smile with which they parted.
So looked at him and smiled at the happy time when they rode together in the desert crimson soft meadows illuminated by the setting sun. "Cursed is !...» Moody spent the night with some friends, then slept badly, seeing many scenes reproduced the past.
When he rose from the balconies came opaque and pale light of a sad day.
It was raining, going together with water snowflakes.
Everything was black: the sky, the walls front, dripping eaves that could see the muddy street paving, roofing car shining like mirrors, movable dome umbrellas.
The previous night had discarded the thought with some anger.
Had fled from him without explanation, and then, saberle in danger of death, was hardly interested in their health.
A simple cable in the first moments, and then nothing: not a bad card for a few lines, she who so easily wrote to friends.
No, not go to see it.
He was very man ...
But the next morning his will seemed softened during sleep. "Why not?" he inquired.
Fucking atrocious cut the square in Seville, with the rudeness of physical pain, despite loving her.
Illness and then his tender approach to Carmen during convalescence had done resigned to his misfortune.
Not find another like her.
When you lose, believed to have receded Gallardo in its existence.
Believed to be a few rungs lower on the consideration social.
If she return, surely the glory days reborn.
His soul is sometimes argued and overwhelmed sometimes by the illusions of superstition, believed this firmly.
Perhaps his desire to see her be a happy heart, just like the ones many times he had saved in the ring.
The easy successes with women dazzled by the success made him believe in the irresistible charm him.
Could it be that Dona Sol, to see him after a long absence ...
The first Once you were alone it was.
And Gallardo, sure of his good fortune, with the quiet arrogance of a man of fortune which necessarily has to awaken desire where fix your eyes, left the Hotel de Paris Just a short distance from him.
He had to wait half an hour on a couch, under the curious eyes of employees and guests, who became the face when he heard his name.
A servant invited him into the elevator, leading to a saloncillo the first floor to the balconies could be seen through the Puerta del Sol, dark, with the roofs of houses black, sidewalks found invisible currents under umbrellas, and Square shining asphalt cut by fast cars, which seemed to whip the rain, or by tram that intersected in all directions with a constant ringing that warned bystanders, deaf under the shelter of the dome of cloth.
It opened a little door hidden in the wall paper and appeared Dona Sol whispers silk, with an intense perfume of fresh and fair, in all the splendor of summer its existence.
Gallardo devoured her eyes, covering entirely the accuracy of a connoisseur do not forget details.
No, more beautiful perhaps, with the temptation a long absence.
Presented in elegant abandon, wearing a robe with strange, exotic jewelry, as who saw him first at his home in Seville.
The feet were stuck in slippers covered with thick gold, which she sitting, crossing legs, were as loose close to escape from the thin limbs.
I knew I was in Madrid.
Gone were the familiarity of a great lady, whom he corresponded with respectful treatment of lower-class lover.
Wanted be in the form of a servant lifted by love into the arms of the great lady, and looked treaty with the cold and courteous consideration that inspires a common friend.
She explained how she had seen Gallardo by attending the only run that he had given in Madrid.
Bulls had gone to a foreigner eager to learn things in Spain a friend who accompanied her on her journey, but lived in another hotel.
Gallardo replied to this with a nod.
They were both in long silence, not knowing what to say.
Dona Sol was the first to break this pause.
But I see now as ever, and in the race had seemed arrogant and strong, though a bit unhappy.
She did not understand much of bulls. - It was not that fuck? ...
With a sullenness of despair, he spoke of his fucking and convalescence, which lasted all winter ...
She listened with feigned interest, as his eyes showed indifference.
Nothing mattered the misfortunes of one fighter ...
They were accidents of his office, that only he could be interested.
Gallardo, speaking of his convalescence at the farm, he felt a similar memories came to his mind the image of a man who had been together and he Dona Sol. - What Plumitas?
I do not know if it Nah, you know.
Dona Sol also vaguely remember this.
Perhaps he had read in newspapers Paris, who spoke much of the bandit, as an interesting kind of quaint Spain. - A poor man - "Dona Sol with indifference -.
I just remember him as a farmer boorish and uninteresting.
From a distance you see things in their true value.
I do remember is the day he had lunch with us at the farm.
Because she had given a flower to say goodbye bandit it ...
Dona Sol's eyes showed a sincere astonishment. - Are you sure? - Asked -.
Do not tell me you do not.
He would not have given a flower in her life ...
And it is possible also on his body found that dried flower, as a reminder that no mysterious has been explained ...
Do not you know anything about this, Gallardo?
I will tell my friend that she would write about things of Spain.
The memory of this friend, who in a few minutes came a second time in conversation, saddened by the bullfighter.
Then he rose as adopting a resolution. - Where has this Nah, you in this time too, Dona Zol? ... - For the world - she answered simply -.
I am a bird of passage.
In a number of cities you do not know or name. - And this stranger who now accompanies ...
is ... - A friend - she said coldly -.
A friend who has been kind enough to accompany me, taking advantage the opportunity to visit Spain, a man worth a lot and has an illustrious name.
This question, made with pride, it felt a compelling desire to keep the matador at a distance, to establish between the two social differences.
Gallardo was taken aback. - Doña Zol! - Moaned naivety -.
What Nah, you made me They have no forgiveness from God.
And his moist eyes, clenching his fists in despair. - Do not put you well, Gallardo.
If I were a man, women would flee my character.
The unfortunate fall in love with me is like committing suicide. - But why did he Nah, you? - Insisted Gallardo. - I left because I was bored.
I do not love you, Gallardo.
Is You are a friend and nothing more.
The other, of Seville, was a dream, a crazy whim, from which I hardly remember, and you should forget.
In his rudeness did not know what to say, guessing that his words were clumsy ineffective to convince this girl.
He hoped to action, with a vehemence of impulse, desires and hopes, trying to possession of women, attracted to him, removing contact with the coldness between them. - Doña Zol! - Pleaded spreading their hands.
But she, with a simple back of his fast right hand, pulled the arms of the bullfighter.
A glow of pride and anger passed over her eyes, and threw the bust forward aggressively, as if she had to suffer an insult. - Quiet, Gallardo! ...
If you follow and will not be my friend and put it in the door.
The bullfighter went from action to discouragement, staying in a humble attitude and ashamed.
And if not her, others.
Imagine if there pretty girls back in Sevilla, the shawl and flowers in the head, so I liked those before, they will look like a happiness to be loved by Gallardo ...
You hurt him in his usual famous man orgullito the successes, but it is, it's over, friend and nothing more.
I get bored and not never go back on my feet.
The illusions of me only last a short time, and pass without trace.
I am worthy of pity, believe me.
Looked at with eyes of pity torero, sensing in them a curious plaintive, as if he suddenly saw all its faults and toughness. - I think things you would not understand - he continued -.
The Gallardo Seville was different from here.
Garcia shook his head, blushing for his ignorance. - He is a prince in India.
The billionaire former ambassador reminded the Hindu, his face shaded by a whisker copper black, white turban, big, thick and with a bright glare on the front and the rest of the body draped in garments dawns, and multiple subtle veils, similar to petals of a flower. - It was beautiful, I was young, I loved your eyes mysterious animal of the jungle, and I however, it was ridiculous and I laughed at him every time he stammered in English a their compliance Eastern ...
Shivering, coughing made him the mist, moving as a bird in the rain, waving their veils as well as if they were wings wet ...
When I spoke of love, looking at me with his wet eyes of a gazelle, made me want to buy a coat and a hat for no more tremble.
And yet, I recognize that it was beautiful and happiness could have done for a few months of a woman eager for something extraordinary.
It was a matter of environment, a scene ...
You, Gallardo does not know what that is.
Dona Sol was remembering the poor Rajah thoughtful, always trembling with cold, with ridiculous clothes, under the hazy light of London.
He saw in imagination beyond its country, transformed by the power and majesty of the sun.
Its coppery complexion, with reflections green tropical vegetation, taking a bronze tone art
