And if you seviyanas hey say that if that if Malaga, say that is chickweed.
Jerez is the key in der cante.
I declare that toos the sages of the world.
When Rafael was felt strongly he had to terminate this period of sweet intimacy.
It was a shame that a man of his energies to remain there, without occupation, living under his godfather.
The matter seemed forgotten that night.
He was not afraid to be persecuted, but he was determined not to return to her old life. - With vast, godfather had your honor right.
Wanted to obtain a family, like his father, as his godfather, and not spend her life by throwing them in check on the mountain.
Fermín, using his influence with Dupont, Rafael made Matanzuela overseer of the farmhouse, owned by the nephew of the late Don Pablo.
The so Luis Jerez had again become a man, after a continuous pilgrimage all universities in Spain, looking for professors who did not have leeway effort to frustrate future lawyers.
His uncle had an obligation to pursue a career, and while it lived, had resigned to lead the life of a student, adjusting to close remittances and augment them with fierce loans, for which he signed in the eyes how many papers they wanted to introduce closed loan sharks.
But to see the front of the family his cousin Paul and his next oldest, had refused to continue longer comedy of their studies.
He was rich, did not want to waste time on things that nothing interested him.
He took possession of his property, started the free existence of pleasure with which he had dreamed of his close student life.
He traveled throughout Spain, but it was not to pass a subject here and beyond: aspired to be an authority on the art of bullfighting, a great man of the fans, and went from place to place next to your favorite matador, witnessing all of their runs.
In winter, when resting their idols, lived in Jerez in the care of their estates, and this care was passed night at the Circle Caballista, heatedly discussing the merits of his killer and the inferiority of their rivals, but with such vehemence, that if a wound received years before a bull, of which there were no bones or had been dropped or in place tentábase clothing over the gun, the knife, the whole arsenal carrying on his person, as a guarantee of value and the arrogance with which solved their issues.
No horse came out beautiful and Jerez stud price, not to buy it, engaging Bid with her cousin, who was richer than him.
At night, the mountaineers of the grocery stores will were entered as a harbinger of storm, confident they would end up breaking bottles and plates and throwing chairs through the air, to prove it was a real man and could then afford all at triple price.
Women and the brave were the two passions of Master.
With them was not very generous, wanted to be adored by his merits rider arrogant, believing in good faith Jerez balconies all shook with the pounding of hearts hidden when passing riding the last horse he had just purchased.
With the court with him, pests and bullies were more splendid.
There was around the end of a bully famous Jerez sad not been there he attracted by his liberality.
Those who went to prison did not have to worry about their fate, Don Luis was a good friend and also to give them money, they admired.
When late-night carousing at the end of the convenience stores, he felt drunk, scorned their loved ones to fix all his admiration bronze in men who accompanied him.
Was to show him the scars of his wounds, which described his heroic fights.
Many Sometimes, in the Circle Caballista pointed to a man Malcarado friends waiting for him at the door. - That's the Goat - said with the pride of a prince who speaks of his great generals .-- A man who was dragged along the ground tassels.
Between shooting and stabbing is over fifty scars on the skin.
I looked at all with insolent superiority, as if the scars were a statement buddy of self-worth, and lived happily believing that everything Jerez no one would dispute his guapeza with men and their good fortune with women.
When the foreman Marchamalo spoke in favor of Rafael, the gentleman admitted immediately.
I had heard the boy, was his own (and he said this took the air guard a teacher), I remembered certain shots in the mountains and the fear that had the the shelter.
Nothing, that stayed with him and liked men. - I will place in my farmhouse Matanzuela - said stroking Rafael friendly slap, like a new disciple .-- The overseer I have is a short-sighted old media, which laugh the farmhands.
With them, bread in one hand, and stick in the other.
I need a man like you, who put them in waist look after my interests.
And Rafael went to the farmhouse, not returning to the vineyard more than once a week, when I was Jerez to talk to the master of the affairs of the farm.
I often had to look at the house of one of its protected.
The new overseer laughed alone the bluster of his master, more attentive to recommend the hardness and "metiese waist" to the lazy who worked their fields, to learn about agricultural operations, blaming the poor harvests the farmhands, a scoundrel who would not work and wished that the masters were to become servants, as if the world could turn upside down.
Yes sir, religion: it was the brake of the poor, and as there was less, the underdog, under the pretext of hunger, they wanted to eat the above.
These words were no longer smile Caballista partners, but those approved earnest gestures, with all their faith in rich farmers, who shrugged his shoulders when a proposed deluded swamps and canals, and every year large parties coasting to the Virgin of Merced, pulling it in supplication just missing the water to their fields.
Despite these ideas that spread Luis in his moments of seriousness, saying that better went about things if the governor, Don Pablo Dupont abhorred his cousin, considering a shame to the family.
This relative, who renewed the scandals of San Dionisio, aggravated, according to Dona Elvira plebeian in origin, was a calamity in a house that had always instilled respect for its noble and holy customs.
Tan lieutenants were soon back, as gentlemen's horses, or young Englishmen, employees on desks, which were excited by stripping the country-style turkey and made laugh Andalusian girls with British broken.
There was no boy in Jerez had not its time to talk with marquesitas unwrapped.
Faced them all: just stand at their gates to enter into dialogue, and without stopping passersby were persecuted the laughter and hisses sounded ironic that behind him.
Dupont's widow could not dominate his nieces, and they, in turn, and grew up, showed themselves more insolent the devout lady.
It was in vain that his cousin banned from the bars.
Burlábanse him and his mother, adding that they were not born to nuns.
Listened hypocritical gesture talks of the confessor of Dona Elvira recommending submission, and made use of all kind of easy ways to communicate with the leading men on foot and on horseback roamed the streets.
A Master of the Horse, son of a farmer, a great friend of the house Dupont, fell in love Lola, asking her to marry in haste, as if afraid that he escaped.
Dona Elvira and her son accepted the application: The Circle raised eyebrows the value of that boy marrying a daughter of the Marquis of San Dionisio.
This marriage was to release the two sisters.
The single went to the other emancipate joyous end of the sullen and devoted aunt, and a few months back to resume husband at home watching habits near Dupont.
Mercedes spent the night in the privacy fence in tight with the couple, his sister with an air of acompañábala lady, and talked with others to not waste time.
The husband protested, trying to rebel.
Mercedes, the single, escaped with a rich Englishman.
From time to time vague news came that made pale with anger to the noble lady.
Sometimes they saw in Paris, others in Madrid, leading a life of elegant courtesan.
Frequently changed protectors, as attracted by his grace dozens picaresque.
Further, in certain vanities produced a great impression the title of Marchioness of San Dionisio, who had joined his name, nobility and the crown that adorned their shirts at night and the sheets of a bed so popular as a main street sidewalk.
And yet it was the best of both worlds.
At last he had fled for not insult about his family, and if she lived in sin, was among men of a certain lineage, always decent, as is influenced in her respects to the rank of his family.
But there was another, the eldest, married woman, and she wanted to end all killing relatives shame.
Married life after the escape of Mercedes, was hell.
The husband lived in perpetual suspicion, going blind in his suspicions, not knowing who to be fixed because his wife looked equally to all men, as if it were offered to the eyes, talking with a freedom that encouraged all kinds of daring.
Fermin was jealous of Montenegro, which had just arrived from London, and resumed his child intimacy Lola frequent visitors, attracted by its picaresque language.
The husband, on the advice of friends, went to the slap and stick to tame the "wild beast", but the little animals that justified the nickname, because when stirred with vigor and aggressiveness of a feral child worthy of his illustrious father, returned the blows so that was always the spouse who was spared worse.
Often presented in the Circle Caballista with scratches on his face and bruised signals. - With this you can not - he said friends in a tone of compassion .-- It is very funny woman for you.
And celebrating the energy of Lola, the admired, with the secret hope of some day the disadvantaged.
The scandal was so great that the husband retired to his parents and Marcasite was finally able to live at home. - Go away - the day her cousin said Dupont .-- You and your sister are our shame.
Flee away and where I will send you the necessary to live.
But Lola said with a lewd gesture, delighting in shock to his devoted family member.
He pleased not to go, and did not leave.
She was very Flemish liked the land and its people.
Would leave little more than death.
Madrid walked some time with her sister, but his travels were short lived.
She wanted to be a gypsy like his father.
Hated the gentlemen, he liked Pavero men in hats, and if they had zajones the better, but real men, smelling block male and sweaty.
And walking the fine blonde beauty with porcelain meat grocery stores and inns, dealing with a fraternity exaggerated to the singers and prostitutes that involved in binges, requiring that tuteasen, and laughing with nervous joy of drunk when men, stupefied by wine, pull out the knives and females huddle frightened in a corner.
This life of drunkenness, noise, fights and alcohol that had seen fondling girl in the parental home, atraíala ancestral hard, giving it without remorse, as whether to continue a family tradition.
In their nocturnal outings, catching arm rustic lover enjoyed his momentary infatuation, was with Louis Dupont and his entourage of happy people.
Luis felt certain hindrances in the desire and later left for the easy business, as if Cohiba memory of the period of childhood they had spent together.
Commented citywide Marquesita scandals of the exhilarating much amazement of the people quiet.
The same thing they saw in the main streets or in the elegantly dressed Country Fair in a luxurious carriage, as it appeared disheveled, wrapped in a shawl walking copying of the girls wild and answering the blandishments of the men with words blush many.
He liked to smile with mysterious gestures of complicity in the peaceful gentlemen she passed by with their families.
After laughing like crazy thinking complaints exploding the marital home and solemn marriages that honored her had tried when she lived with her husband.
In one long side of the street, with tables the major casinos, had kissed a friend exaggerated passion transport between the shouting of the people who came to the door.
His last love was a young dealer in pigs, an athlete and warbler flat with living in the suburb.
One secret to this strong male's crazy.
Spoke of him with pride, delighting in the contrast between his birth and occupation of her lover.
Occasionally suffered fits of levity and was absent from the hut of the suburbs for a few days.
The uncouth lover not wanted, making his return for safe, and to return the wayward bird, whole neighborhood put on alert with the blows and screams out the balcony Marquesita with her hair down, asking for help, until a paw the started of the iron and got inside to continue the thrashing.
If a friend spoke with buzzing tone of loving beatings, he answered with pride: - He hits me because I can see, and I love him because he is the only one who understands me.
The scandals of the Marquesita outraged many, and rejoiced at the most.
Popular people looked at with some sympathy, as if their debasement flattered egalitarian instinct from below.
Les seemed that people were less respectful to them because of poor female dishonor family.
Even thought they saw in the raised certain smile, as if the insult them joy inferred that this crazy relatives.
Dupont lords began to frequent less the streets of the city, passing many days on his farm in Marchamalo to avoid meeting the Marquesa and the people who commented on his eccentricities.
This move away from Jerez allowed Dupont make their dreams on Marchamalo.
Broke down the old house and built new wineries, a beautiful house for his family, a chapel spacious and rich as a temple, and a square tower with pointed battlements overlooking the waves of hills covered with vines, which formed the great Marchamalo domain.
Fermín Montenegro, to go on holidays to visit his family, was always with their owners.
Thus grew insensibly his dealings with Don Pablo.
In the middle of the countryside, under the bright blue sky, seemed to soften the imperious character of Dupont, making treat their subject with more affection than on the desktop.
Watching the waves of strains that covered the slopes white, rich admired grower the fertility of his farm, modestly attributing God's protection.
Some spots extended their tragic barren desolation among the foliage of the branches.
Traces were phylloxera that had ruined half Jerez.
Growers, crushed by falling wines, could not afford to replant their vineyards.
It was a land that aristocratic and expensive that only the rich could cultivate.
Put back into operation a cost aranzadas well as maintaining a decent family for a year.
But the house was Dupont affluent and could deal with the plague. - Look, Ferminillo - said Don Paul, - all these clearly going to plant the American vine.
With this, and, above all, with God's help, you'll see how the thing goes well.
The Lord is with those who love Him.
Dona Elvira, meanwhile, did not descend to make confident of his thoughts to the family of Montenegro, but deigned to speak with some frankness, which caused astonishment in their household in the city.
The noble lady was softened his pride living in the countryside.
To see the daughter of the foreman abstract, putting his thoughts far, far away in the farmhouse where he lived Rafael, the good lady played this sadness as a desire to retreat, and offered his protection. - No, ma'am - the girl said smiling, - I do not want to be a nun.
A strip me of life.
Fermín Montenegro was not a secret for spiritual troubles, large setbacks suffered by the widow of Dupont because of business.
His son had to deal people of all classes, heretics and men without religion, foreigners who drank wine of the house, and going through Jerez were to be greeted with the treat they deserve good customers.
In vain the Fathers of the Church of San Ignacio dissipated his scruples remembering the importance of business and the influence exerted so powerful a house on the religiosity Jerez.
Dona Elvira only reconciled with its famous wine cellars where once a year out for Rome a cask of wine, sweet and syrupy, for the Mass Pope on the recommendation of several bishops, friends of the house.
The honor of serving as soothing.
Still, what troubles did not suffer those nasty blond foreign who had the audacity to read the Bible in their own way and in their language, without believing in His Holiness or go to Mass! ...
Montenegro knew one of the recent troubles of the pious lady, who had reported the servants of the house.
The Dupont had a Swedish traveler, the best agent for your business.
Put thousands and thousands bottles of wine produced Marchamalo fire in northern countries almost endless nights and sunny days, which last month.
The salesman, after many years service to the house, had come to Spain, to Jerez, to personally meet to Dupont.
Don Pablo had thought indispensable to dinner with his family.
Horrible torment that her mother suffered at the stranger, huge body, red and talkative, with the childlike joy of the Northmen when they come into contact with the sun and wines from warmer countries
