The last morning was, taking advantage of a time left they could not watch him.
I also want to give time to get that.
The premature, fuming at the mouth and wearing American last summer, parody Don Juan Tenorio. - I tell you this lady is not such a lady, and I have said he appears. - Come on, boy, you shut up!
I've followed two evenings, and not even looked at me. - Well I know that you are dating. - Yes!
The bell sounded stronger, the beggars in the temple gate saddened voice as they could, wet nurses were beginning to march like a donkey's milk; Ladies entering or leaving the church, throwing envious looks, the raging heat and walking it was becoming little more than desert, hearing by the strong stone pavement taconear of girls passing by, half hidden by the wide umbrellas in bright colors, while the mother called to children, dogs running and playing mules stopped to look at the pictures that were to step into the hand of the newspaper vendors.
Was slowly going around the world, and the bell stopped playing, there were only the tobacconist, sitting next to her drawer, the wife of Aguaducho turning on a concave dish the pot of stew that just bring a guy, and the pair of yellow, horse up, walk down, came from Cibeles to the Mint.
While the sexton, with his bunch of keys and his robe stained wax out Close the door of the temple, also left two women: one, dressed modestly in black, gray hair, wrinkled face, lady-like modernized, mittens and shoes lace of Rusel, the second set elegant and extremely simple, without ornament or jewelry.
Peace and her governess were. - There has been the car - it said - Let's sit a while, no longer take .-- And began to make drawings in the sand with the stick of the umbrella.
The old woman looked at the air as he thinks of the shrews.
The power of the sun was rising; the shadows of the acacias drew strongly on the ground and very black outlines, and Jardinillos was nothing but a passerby spurred by the hope of lunch or some old gentleman laboriously dragging his feet on the sand.
The water carrier was savoring his frugal meal, and the tobacconist dozed thrown face down on the stone of test currency.
Suddenly the car arrived Peace and stood to walk across. - Come on - said it pulled the groom seeing the box.
Peace Putting your foot in the stirrup suddenly turned to look at the costume of a lady passing, and noticed that a few steps away, was a man, Pepe.
The girl hesitated for a moment: his first impulse was to call him, but felt in the face a wave of heat and embarrassed his own idea, sat down beside the old.
Then he saw Pepe and took off his hat: She bowed her head, giving her eyes a look of affectionate confidence, and then for a few seconds, he was leaning toward the window: Pepe remained still.
When starting the horses became Peace at him, and then, without realizing it, his eyes were riveted on the boy sadly, leaving the lids then fall slowly that look as if they intend to ship an expression of sympathy and a complaint.
Pepe, that had not moved yet, stood amazed, confused, with the admiration that creates an impression never felt.
It was not in vain conceit that he entered the soul, nor vainglory sudden absurd adventures, but a very great surprise.
The moment of hesitation to get in the car, and then sweet, sad look, what they mean?
Impregnated loving that expression of modesty, but obvious, why obey?
Might not be everything, but some of that sympathy which, like alms, exempts the powerful to the miserable.
But then the imagination defeated sanity and the folly of thinking overcame the chill lied that he wanted to flaunt Pepe before it itself.
Sunday was another Recoletos with the intent to see her without her noticing and, when he saw the car, entered the church, staying in the shade, next to the entry screen.
A moment later the nurse came Peace and merged in a group with other women, let them fall pass, and as they knelt, advanced to put in place suitable to look on taste, without being seen.
The church was embroiled in a semi-shade gray and dirty, the light falling from the high windows of the cupola, hidden by thick blue curtains, not enough to clarify the environment.
From time to time campanillazos sounded, and sometimes the clash of the rooms inside the brush an acolyte presented to the faithful asking for this holy iglesiaaa cultooo.
