Only one case of evasion has happened so far, and that the negligence of a guard.
The work of prisoners is to make shoes and mats or a pillar grains.
Chaplains attend Sunday church services to make moral and without prejudice to its competition accidental.
When an inmate is worthy of consideration, is allowed to receive from time to time the short visit of some debt.
This takes place in a booth, the gate through a thin wire that allows the conversation and the exchange of glances, under the supervision of the warden present, but that prevents all contact and communication cards, money, weapons.
They take books that are carefully recorded all the facts of the domestic economy and statistical observations on the morality of prisoners.
According to these documents, if the conduct of a defendant is blameless get a less rigorous treatment and a reduction of sentence, which reaches halfway.
As the product of labor, the system is analogous to the House of Detention, but part is intended to help, if they are poor, to the children, parents, or spouse of the inmate.
The prison serves only to those convicted for crimes or serious offenses, to more than one year of confinement cell.
The maximum of the duration is 20 years, applied only in cases of repeated serious crimes.
The thing that caught my attention in the prison was the chapel, local extremely simple, unadorned and provided no seats in the amphitheater.
At the bottom, next to the modest chair of the chaplain, is a small altar reduced to one Christ, the image of the Virgin and the vessels and objects necessary for the Roman worship.
When inmates are Roman Catholic chapel, the altar is naked and does the priest concerned.
When his turn assist the Protestants, the altar is covered and is not in sight but the Bible on the table.
Teaching hidden in the depths of a prison, - a symbol of the equal duty to conscience and justice - to instill the culprit the notion of brotherhood in God and man, the equal right of all, as violation is precisely what is called a fault, offense or crime!
There have been born, to the glory of letters and sciences of every kind, daring naturalists and patients as Saussure and Candolle, lawyers and Burlamaqui; historians as Sismondi and Mallet, economists such as John B.
Say and Sismondi himself, men of state as Necker, writers such as Madame Necker, and Cherbuliez Töpffer; distinguished artists, thinkers, philosophers like Rousseau immortal!
A huge open carriage, divided into three compartments and containing about 23 people, besides baggage, was to guide us along the Arve Valley to Chamonix, at the foot of the colossal group of mountains in the center of which holds the impressive dome of Mont Blanc
