At that time the jokes ended and broke fellowship.
Had an effective part of value in that calm attitude, unflappable Count, but was also a good portion of effort and study.
The wild young, but highly unlikely literature generally, but received no influence.
What are including private the serialized novels and games.
These, novels draw the ideal figure of a man so same as the books of chivalry.
Only in the old novels, the man sampler was that for the sake of the noble ideas of justice and charity companies rushing over forces.
In modern is the fear of ridicule fails to enthusiastically and every generous action.
The man who risked his life at all times for a cause useful to their peers, which has been replaced by the nonadas risk of vanity or pride.
The gentleman has happened the swordsman.
The coterie commenting abode of Count serenity.
He praised but not very strongly or too long.
The second speaking of things neatly mild and severe sobriety.
Deshízose at last get-together evening.
They left almost all their illustrious members, and spread spread Madrid its doctrines, which can be summarized thus: "Man is born destined to sign twisted whiskers notes and spend.
The work, instruction, order, are prejudicial the state of nature and should be outlawed in all well-organized society. " Ramon Maldonado, as ever, clung to the skirts of his friend Pepe Castro.
The reader is already aware of the profound admiration he professed.
Now it is know that Pepe Castro was left to admire full of condescension, and occasionally deigned to introduce him some ineffable secrets relating to their highest conceptions of English mares and Amber nozzles.
Ramon was slowly becoming clear notions not only of these things, but also the most appropriate way to combine the French language with Spanish in the family conversation.
Pepe Castro had the wonderful gift of forgetting, at any given time, the Spanish word, and after some hesitation pronounce the perfect French naturally.
Ramon also did, but with less elegance.
Distinction was also pretty good Arcachon oysters of non-Basin, the Chateau-Laffite's Château Margaux, the chest voice, the tenor, the head voice, and toothpaste of Akinson of the other toothpastes.
However, Ramon, like all neophytes, much more if they have an excited and enthusiastic temperament, he exaggerated the doctrine of the master.
Be an example of this exaggerated shirt collars.
Because the high costs Pepe Castro and tight "Ramon was no reason why he wandered through the streets of God with the language out, suffering all day preliminary garrotted?
And if Pepe Castro, because of a neurological disorder which had had as a child, closed his left eye often which undoubtedly graced him, what went right on the winking Ramoncito People with yours?
In addition, the young councilman perfume carried not only the tissue and beard, but all their clothes, so that even went beyond ten meters and produced about dizziness.
Well, after careful consideration, we have not found in the ideas of revered master no justification for this reprehensible trend.
The most beautiful and lofty precepts of great men, degenerate and pervert to be among followers and followers.
Pepe Castro, but warned these shortcomings and imperfections of his disciple, not the reproached.
Before, with the nobility's own great characters, he lay on his mercy to forgive and hide.
Nobody dared in his presence, mock necks or the twinkle of Ramon.
It was just four when both of the club went wild buttoning gloves.
The door was the charrette de Castro, giving it fired the driver for hours ride.
Prior should make a visit to pray for Ramon.
They walked along Prince Street, where the club is located, slowly, watching intently to the women crossing.
Deteníanse sometimes a moment to make some bright signs on their grace and elegance, not as the timid passer who contemplates and sighs, but as two pashas to fall within a slave market before choosing and discuss the qualities of each.
Men arrojábanles a scornful glance.
And if that was not enough were wrapped in a strong puff of smoke to make them aware that they, Pepe and Ramon, belonged to a world higher, and that if they walked down the street from the Prince was only momentary whim.
Whenever you condescend to walk a little walk between streets and now in the expression of face had a tinge of surprise that his step was not welcomed by the crowd with rumors of admiration.
Maldonado was more loquacious than his friend.
On what was coming and expressed his opinion raising the smiling face toward Castro.
Let's say that Ramon was much lower than his master, not only moral but also physically.
I like Rosaura For you see what nonsense!
Ramon looked surprised and respectful at the same time. - How the action - he ventured to ask. - Yes, the action.
As he uttered the last words he left to contemplate the window and continued his majestic march the sidewalk.
Ramon did the same.
And frankly, expect to die I do not think business.
I'm not a tycoon, but I have regular fortune, which is mine now, without waiting for nobody dies ....
I can provide the same amenities you have in your home and the same luxury ...
My family is better than yours: my grandfather was a shopkeeper and father of D.
Too much love drew him to injury.
Castro mused that perhaps the fact of being a bit gawky and have the full skin freckles, influence to succeed his friend did not flattering in this as in other companies he had undertaken, but failed to show such suspicion.
Preferred seating, closing eyes and blowing cigar smoke, this general truth: - The girls are very stupid.
Ramon, in accordance with it in principle, insisted, however, determined by application more or less legitimate. - It's a fool! ...
This is the realm of formality was a phrase that the professed predilection Councilman Young.
Whenever talking about came from her lips Esperancita three or four times, as necessarily be associated with his love.
Pepe Castro felt discomfort unspeakable winked his left eye endlessly.
In fact, never liked ideas anticipate future events.
But in this case doubly repugnant because they could announce gloomy his friend and admirer.
Engagement took him out of the appearance of a beautiful and elegant dress that came to meet them on the sidewalk of Main. - Here is the Amparo - said with a dismissive and contemptuous severity Ramoncito admired.
Salabert's mistress came to them smiling, greeting them warmly, particularly Pepe Castro.
This squeezed her hand without losing its gravity or remove the nozzle from the teeth, like a comrade who was just seen at the cafe. - Where are you going, rascals? - For home Calderon to spend time. - Come with me.
I'm buying a jeweler.
Help me to choose ...
He spoke cheerfully affectionate, not the same creature seemed bland and bad mood we have seen in his small hotel in the neighborhood of the monastery.
Put your hand on it, silly. - I do, son.
Neglected. - Well, you could protect a poor little Manolo, who walks in darkness long ago. - Poor thing!
I thought it was just the head. - That is: laugh after you've plucked. - Hey, kid: I have never plucked, for one simple reason: when he came into my possession and did not have feathers - Amparo said getting serious. - It is not true that.
Manolo you spent more than forty thousand dollars. - Have you hard!
So I looked at my hair when I got to the door.
The other guy is very escamón.
Real after it?
Do not take me more people.
The noise does not suit me now that I am well placed do you know?
I already have said they want marry the girl of Calderón ....
Well son, you are hideous and ugly as she whipped a Christ, you are going to throw some kids that will have to teach in a shack.
Goodbye, Pepe: do not forget the anchovies.
You know I do not eat dinner without them.
Ramon had turned red with anger at hearing to deal with such contempt for his beloved, without mind that a moment before he had done the same.
And I would have lashed out at the Amparo insolence any fat, if it had not been away without noticing little or much in distress it caused.
Contented with a little murmur ominously grinding teeth: - I think I'll get I have no shame!
The encounter with the mistress of Salabert at the time that he was in the most climactic of his confidences, he had disturbed, and therefore had not taken off his lips.
Hastened to knot the thread where it had broken, asking his friend and teacher: - Let's see, Joe: you in my case what would you do?
Castro walked in silence for a while staring at the balconies of the houses caught no doubt that people do not come out to see him pass.
Then, giving three or four long hickey the cigar and reflective coating and serious air, replied: - Men's (pause), I, in your case, principiaría by not being in love.
Thought it appropriate to start putting your hands in your pockets and folded lips with a smirk ironic and protective.
There are some grounds for thinking that it was not so.
You see, has been the last time on Monday ....
Through the eyes of Ramon spent a flash of joy legitimate and a look of triumph to his friend Pepe
