Felt the need to breathe, to live in the scented environment that enveloped her, following in his footsteps.
Seeing the captain reached out just the same as if they had seen the day above. - You will not complain, Ferragut! ...
As I did not find the hotel, I felt the need to visit your vessel ...
He wanted to know their houseboat.
All I care about you.
Ulises noticed the great change that had taken place in him Over the past days.
Their smiles, their words, their way of marching on the cover the chambers of the vessel, to denote a resolution of an early end to his long resistance, yielding to the wishes of the ocean.
Despite past failures, he felt again the joy of victory. "Now is to be!
My absence has expired ... "And while savoring the sweet satisfaction love and pride of triumph, a vague instinct suggested the suspicion that this woman suddenly transformed, you may want less now than in previous days, when refused, advising him to flee.
In the dining room was the presentation of his second.
In the first apologized and realized instantly the conduct of their captain.
Then his eyes were fixed upon her with an expression of alarm, as if his presence do him tremble for the fate of the steam.
Ended up feeling embarrassed in front of this lady who was examining the room as if it were to stay there forever.
Freya was interested a few moments for the hairy ugliness of Toni.
He was a true Mediterranean as she imagined them: a faun tracker nymphs.
Ulysses smiled at the praise directed his mate. - Must be in the shoes - she went - a nice pezuñitas such as goats.
Ferragut was relieved with this absence, fearing a dirty word Toni.
When left alone with Odysseus, ran from one side to another by the great camera. - Here is where you live, dear shark? ...
I'm interested in him: he will not say now that I love him.
Stopped their chatter to defend ironic and gently loving sailor.
This, forgetting the past and wanting to take the happiness she gave him suddenly, he hugged the visitor kissing her neck. - Then ...
He opened the piano, piano poor Scottish captain, and a faint line and whimpering, detuning product of several years, moved the room with the melancholy of revived memories.
The music was equal to that of melodic boxes that are forgotten in the bottom of a closet, among the clothes of an old dead.
Freya said that he smelled of dried roses music.
Then, abandoning the piano, opened one after another all the cabin doors giving the classroom.
In the master bedroom is stopped, not wanting to pass the threshold, hold brass latch held in his right hand.
I'll be yours, I promise: I give you my word.
He felt all the delight of these statements, made with a caressing voice and submissive; all the pride of this familiarity spontaneous, equivalent to a first delivery.
The arrival of an acolyte of Uncle Caragol made them regain their peace of mind.
He had two huge cocktail glasses filled with red and sparkling, heady and sweet mixture, summary of all knowledge acquired by Cook in his dealings with the first drunk ports worldwide.
She tasted the liquid, squinting like a cat tooth.
Then she burst into singing, raising his glass in a dignified manner.
Offered his libation to Eros, the most good of the gods.
And Ferragut, who had always felt a certain fear of hell and pleasing to the mixtures of cook, drained his glass in one gulp, to join the invocation.
Ferragut return to the land, apartments in the same harbor.
Continue their former life as if nothing had happened. - This afternoon, I wait in the gardens of the Villa Nazionale ...
Before he could evoke the image of that night of violence, came forward to Freya memories with a cunning female ...
Ulysses was the one who had wanted to kill her, I said it, without admitting response. - Go to visit the doctor - he continued -.
The poor wants to see, and asked me to take you.
After fixing the time of the meeting, Freya wanted to go.
But before returning to his boat felt the curiosity to search the ship, and had registered the room and cabins.
With an air of reigning princess, preceded and followed the captain of the officers, ran the two decks, overlooks the iron galleries of the machines and the squared pit cargo hatch, getting the musty smell of the cellars.
On the bridge played with enthusiasm childish brass cap of the blog and other management tools, bright as if they were gold.
Wanted to see the kitchen, or invaded the domains of Uncle Caragol, putting in an appalling mess formations of pans, sticking his pink nose to the mouth of the large pot smoking in boiling lunch people.
The old man could see her up close with their short-sighted eyes. "Yes she was beautiful!" The fluttering of their Frequently encontrones skirts and took her in his comings and goings through the kitchen disrupted the apostle.
His eye for guisandero felt bothered by the scent of this woman. "Beautiful, but with the smell of ...», repeated mentally.
For him, all women's perfume deserved this title offensive.
Women smell good to fish and to wool: he was sure of it ...
In its distant youth, the poor knowledge Caragol had not gone further.
When left alone, he grabbed a rag, shaking violently as if shaking off flies.
Wanted clean the air of odors.
He felt shocked, as if they had dropped a bar of soap in one of its rice.
The ship's men piled on the edges to follow the progress of the boat pulled away.
Toni, at the foot of the bridge, also looked enigmatic eyes. - Beautiful you are, but that the sea will swallow before you come back! ...
An arm waved a handkerchief at the stern of the boat. "Farewell, Captain!" And the captain moved head, smiling and excited about the women's greeting, while the sailors envious good luck.
Another time a man of the crew carried luggage Ferragut the harbor from the shore Santa Lucia.
The porter, as if sensing the inclinations of the client tips easy, took care to choose his room one floor below the previous time, around which occupied the signora Talberg.
Was found in mid afternoon at the Villa Nazionale, and waged together the march through the streets of Chiaia.
Sensed something special in this space, but was willing to conceal her impressions, for fear of losing the love and support of the wise lady, who seemed to have a large domain on Freya.
Entered the vestibule of an ancient palace.
Many times he had stopped the ocean before your door, but kept going, misled by the metal sheets announcing offices and desks installed at various floors.
Saw an arcaded courtyard, paved with large slabs, which gave the balconies bellied on all four sides inside the palace.
They climbed a ladder of echoes awake, large as a sloping street, with width riots in the past allowed the passage of berths and carriers.
As a reminder of the characters in white wigs and ladies guardainfante widths that had passed through it, there were some busts in landings, a wrought iron railing hammer of gold and several fuzzy farolones and murky glass.
They stopped at the first floor, doors to a row of some decayed over the years. - Here is - Freya said.
He noted specifically the only door that was covered with a green leather screen, displaying a commercial sign, huge, golden, pretentious.
One employee worked: a man of uncertain age, with boyish face and mustache trimming.
Their obsequious and smiling gesture contrasted with fleeting glance, a look of alarm and distrust.
Seeing Freya rose from his seat.
This Karl greeted him by calling him, and passed on, as if a porter.
Ulysses, follow guessed fixed on their backs look suspicious the clerk. - Is it also Polish? - Asked. - Yes, Polish ...
He is a protégé of Dr..
They entered a room furnished in a hurry, with special art and which are easy accustomed to travel and have to improvise a home: sofas with colorful Indian and cheap American guanaco skins, garish carpets, a false Orientalism, and the sheets of newspapers from walls golden rods.
On a table wearing their ivory and silver a great need to open the leather cover.
A few statues were Neapolitan purchased at the last moment to give an air of respectability to sedentary this room could quickly dispose, and which were most valuable ornaments travel items.
He was hunched over a desk America, but immediately saw in the mirror that was in front of her to spy on what was happening behind him.
Ulises guessed that the lady had made some impressive toilet preparations to receive him.
A narrow dress as a cover molding the exuberance of its forms.
The skirt collection and narrow at the top of his legs, looked like the handle of a huge club.
On the green Marine wore a white tulle dress with silver sequins, as a shawl.
The captain, notwithstanding his respect for the wise lady, compared to a well-fed mother mermaid ocean meadows.
With hands outstretched and a joyful expression on his face, which was irradiated lenses, advanced to Ferragut.
He seemed to forget his cold to leave in Salerno, care was taken to conceal the address of your home.
Ferragut also agreed that, greatly moved by the kindness of the doctor.
It was sitting between them, as if to protect them with all the majesty of his person and affection of his eyes.
She was a mother for her friend.
Stroking, talking, tufts Freya's hair, which had just fought the closure of the hat.
The sailor felt the same excitement as if he were in a quiet family atmosphere.
That lady was quietly made things, speaking as a son.
Then he took a monocle impertinent fixity to one of his eyes, while Dr.
Began to believe that indeed he was wrong.
The fear and impatience made him open his door, standing on the porch to watch by far the closed room Freya
