Uncle Guster remained invisible.
Then, when you open your window, watching a clear sky, bright, the soft splendor of the winter sun, but the sea was rough, no foam and no waving noise influence of a dangerous wind.
The rains covered the island in a gray robe, which barely marked with undecided outlines the nearby mountains.
Peak to Peak weeping pines for all filaments its foliage and the thick humus layer was soaked like a sponge, expelling fluid under foot footprint.
On the bare stage of the coast, rock, amontonábase rain tumultuous forming streams, leaping from rock to rock.
The broad enormous fig trees were shaking like broken umbrellas, letting the water in the large enclosure sheltered by the dome.
The almond trees, bare of leaves, trembling as black skeletons.
The deep ravines llenábanse roaring water that rolled into infertile the sea.
Roads, paved with blue pebbles, between high dry stone embankment, convertíanse cataracts.
The island, thirsty and dusty for much of the year, seemed to repel by every pore of this exuberance of winter rain, like a sick drug repellent Late energetic and difficult to assimilate.
In these days of rain, Febrer was locked in his tower.
It was impossible to go to sea and impossible to also go with the shotgun in the fields of the island.
The farmsteads were closed, with its white stained by pouring buckets of rain, no more life to the thread blue smoke escaping from the holes in the chimneys.
Immersed in this enforced immobility, when he needed the distraction of physical exercise She remembered the previous life, increasingly distant and indecisive in his memory.
Weeks before he had received a second letter from his friend Toni Clapp, the smuggler.
It was also written in a cafe in the terminal: four lines scribbled in a hurry to make This his good memory.
That rough and kind friend will not forget, not even looked have been offended by his previous letter unanswered.
The smuggler had faith in Valls.
It was the smartest of chuetas and generous as any of them.
Undoubtedly remains afloat would take the fortune of James, and he could spend your life in Mallorca relaxed and happy.
Valls did not want to talk to everything was resolved.
Febrer shoulders moved to learn of these expectations. "Bah!
Very beautiful and romantic island shelter during the early months when the sun shone, the trees were green and customs practiced on their island mind the bizarre charm of novelty.
But bad weather had come, the loneliness was intolerable, and the life of peasants appeared to him with all the rudeness of their barbarous passions.
Those peasants dressed in blue velvet, with bands and colorful ties and flowers behind ears, had seemed at first created only original figurines for an ornament to the fields, an operetta singers of pastoral languid and sweet, but better known now, were like men, and men barbarians, in which the friction of civilization had barely managed a slight polish, retaining all the angularity Cutting their ancestral rudeness.
Viewed from afar, for a short time the charm seduced of novelty, but he had entered their customs, it was almost one of them, and he weighed as a fall in this life than slavery, which clashed at every turn with ideas and prejudices of the past.
His entire capital consisted of a few dozen hard he had brought from his flight from Mallorca, quantity that still retained by Pep, stubborn in its refusal to accept compensation.
There should remain, stuck to his tower like a cross, expecting nothing, wanting nothing, seeking the annulment of his thought vegetative happiness like that of the Sabine Women and tamarisk trees growing between the rocks of the promontory, or clinging to the clams always submerged rocks.
After long reflection conformábase with their lot.
Moreover, hope, never abandons us confused doeth descry the possibility of something extraordinary would be submitted on time for starting such a situation.
Pep and his family were his only family, but without realizing it, obeying such After a confusing instinct increasingly moved away from him.
Jaime were detained in isolation, and they remembered less of the Lord.
Margalida not long ago that appeared in the tower.
It was another: it would seem that had aroused to a new existence.
The innocent smile and confident of puberty had turned into a Reserve gesture, as a woman who knows the dangers of the road and walking with slow and cautious step.
Since I was the subject of courtship and the boys went to apply twice a week festeig under traditional, seemed to have realized large and unexpected dangers not previously suspected, and stood beside his mother, avoiding any chance of seeing alone with a man, blushing just a manly eyes crossed with theirs.
This was nothing extraordinary gallantry in the customs of the island, but nevertheless Febrer produced in mute rage, as if he saw in it an attack and plunder.
Invasion Can Mallorquí by atloteria love bully and gazed as an insult.
Had considered the farm the same as if it were their house, but since these outsiders arrived and were well received, he was leaving.
In addition, suffered in silence despite not being, like the early days, the only concern family.
Pep and his wife were still believing the lord and his brother Margalida revered as a powerful being came from distant lands, to be Ibiza the best place on earth, but Despite this, other concerns seemed to be reflected in their eyes.
The visit of so many atlots and modification that this had brought their customs made them less caring with Don Jaime.
During winter nights, Febrer, confined to his tower, looking a little light shining their feet: Can Mallorquí.
There were nights festeig, the family should be alone, about home, but he stood firm in their isolation.
No, not go down.
He sat Febrer under its roof with the family and Uncle Guster, who came attracted by the hope of a gift.
Never let him go without a slice of watermelon, which filled the mouth the old with the sweet blood of red meat, or a fragrant cup of fragrant herbs figola of Mt.
Margalida, eyes on the mystery of the stars, singing ballads Ibiza with child's voice, soft cooler, Febrer heard the slight breeze that shivers peopled the blue fog of night.
Pep had wonderful air its great browser adventures on land during the years he had served the king as a soldier in the remote and almost fantastic country of Catalonia and Valencia.
The dog, crouched at his feet, seemed to listen, fixed his eyes on the love of soft gentleness reflected at the bottom of a star.
Incorporábase suddenly with a nervous impulse, and giving disappeared leap in the dark, sonorous sound of vegetation between broken.
Pep explained This boot quiet.
It was nothing, an animal that wandered and lost in the shadows a hare, a rabbit was sniffing with his sensitive nostrils of hunting dogs.
Sometimes slowly sat up, with grunts of watchful hostility.
Someone passing by near the farmhouse, a shadow, a man walking quickly, with the speed of Ibiza, used to go quickly from side to side of the island.
When he passed quietly, pretending not to see, as it seemed that the dark wanderer not learn of the existence of the farm and the people sitting on the porch.
Ibiza was ancient custom greeting in the open field not only closed the night.
In paths crossed the shadows without a word, avoiding the meeting to rub or not known.
Everyone went to their business, to see the bride, looking for the doctor to kill an opponent in the other end of the island to run back and say that at the same time was with friends.
Everyone who walked during the night had reason to go unnoticed.
A bona, nit! "Or a request for a cigarette fire could receive in reply a pistol.
Sometimes no one went to the farm, and yet the dog, moving the neck, howled against the black void.
They were screaming long and wild that cut like a war cry mysterious silence "!...» Auuú And much further weakened by distance, answered another fierce exclamation: "Auuú !...» The peasant was quiet your dog.
There was nothing strange about these cries.
Were atlots that aucaban in the dark, guided by the sound of their cries to be recognized and perhaps meet, perhaps to fight, being called a cry of defiance.
It was likely that after the aucamiento sounded a blast.
Things young and the night! ...
And Pep was the extraordinary account of his travels, under the astonished gaze of his wife, I heard these wonders for the thousandth time, always new.
Uncle Guster, not to be outdone, told stories of pirates and sailors brave Ibiza, supporting the testimony of his father, who had been a page in the felucca captain Riquer, raiding the hero behind the frigate Happiness, the fearsome pirate "the Pope." Excited by the heroic memories, sang with trembling voice the verses that the crew had celebrated the triumph Ibiza, songs in Castilian, for greater solemnity, and the guy whose words disfigured Guster. / * [4] Where are you, Papa brave man of such courage, that fear of death I hid in a drawer? ... * / And the toothless mouth of the ocean was still singing the deeds of other times, as if datasen Yesterday, as if they had witnessed, as if suddenly they were to fly above that earth wrapped in darkness the flames of the towers watchtowers announcing a landing enemies.
Other times, her eyes shining with greed, he spoke of massive flows that the Moors Romans and other red sailors, who called the mormandos, were buried in caves the coast, boarded later.
It told the true story of the cave of Formentera, where the Normans had saved their products piracy in Spain and Italy: holy golden chalices, chains, jewelry, gems and coins measures bushels.
A terrible dragon, trained no doubt by the red men, watched at the bottom of the chasm with the treasure under his belly.
The rash that served as drop off the grass.
And the rustic auditorium shook with emotion, without doubt the existence of such wealth, the respect he felt for the narrator's old age.
Not going at night a Can Mallo, fearing their presence interfere with the family talks about Margalida of suitors.
On nights of experiencing more distress festeig, and without explaining why, asomábase at the door of the tower, looking eagerly toward the farmhouse.
The same light, the appearance of forever, but he imagined hearing the silence of the night new noises, echoes of songs, Margalida voice.
The next day, to raise the Chaplain to the tower to carry food to Don Jaime, the I asked him questions about what happened in last night.
Listening to the boy, imagine all the accidents Febrer courtship.
The family dinner fast in the evening, to be ready for the ceremony.
Margalida took down the roof fourth party skirt, and then put it on, with red and green scarf crossed over chest, a smaller head and a long tape loop to the end of the braid, We put the gold chain he had given his mother, and went to sit on the abrigais, folded into a kitchen chair.
The father smoked his pipe, snuff of drinking, the mother, corner, weaving reed baskets, the Chaplain asomábase outdoors, under the broad porch, which would meet the atlots silent suitors.
Had that were there from an hour earlier, because neighbors had spotted arriving dusty or clay, after walking two miles.
On rainy nights under the roof shook their hood of coarse shawls, inheritance from grandparents, or the women's shawl that was wrapped as a token of modern elegance.
After agreeing briefly the order that would follow in his conversation with the girl, rival's troops entered the kitchen, because in winter the porch a cold.
A blow at the door. - Avant qui continue! - Pep screaming as if unaware of the presence of the suitors and was waiting for an extraordinary visit.
Next to it was an empty chair, and when it was missing, the applicant put in a squatting position, to use Moorish, talking to the girl quietly for three minutes under the glare of his opponents.
The lower short-term extension of the coughs provoked, angry looks and claims threatening a low voice.
