Love is not only fatigue and pain.
Just love that I know tired and what it brings.
I really I say that I carry these trees and the river: I'm already up to the crown of lawns, meadows, streams and birds.
No doubt that is what called a city.
That's what I want to see.
The laughter, voices and music, impressing the hearing, the aroma of flowers and the smell snack foods and spirits, injuring the nose; the liveliness of the eyes, the variety of colors, affecting vision, produced in that place a fascination that would put the kibosh on the strength of all the hermits of the Thebaid.
The pen, wandering through the ceiling of the room felt that since the table came up to caress her senses the sweet fumes of the table and got drunk with the fragrance of wine poured in incessantly in golden goblets.
Are driving me Tarumba the emanations from those birds, those spices, the fruits of those spirits that appear to, lead itself the seeds of life and infuse us encouragement and joy.
But do not you go crazy like me?
Here I estarme entire life, you know?
but I have known my error, and I have the assurance of not more wrong.
It's because I have much experience, do not believe, and from now on I know I have to do.
The pen was also felt woozy: it began to go round and round in the air until little by little lost consciousness of what had happened.
Preserving a remnant of vague knowledge, felt that the voices away, falling furniture, which broke with a clatter of glasses; Silence the musicians, which obscured the sun, replaced a dim light of torches; after they became extinct, that everything was silent.
Then he felt down, abandoned genius of his mysterious friend saw the flowers wilted and trampled on the ground, the remains Food thrown into disorder and exhaling foul odor; all mixed and dispersed, and no living person in the room.
In his swoon judged slowly passing hours and hours, which after dawn, and someone finally showed signs of life at the palace yesterday's delight and sadness today.
Then he was violently dragged to the influence of a rough order: opened his eyes, and with a clear head, and saw that it was impelled by a broom.
The sweeping together with a multitude of objects mean, rumpled, foul and pestiferous: leaves trampled flowers, pieces of glass still wet with wine, fruit kernels still covered saliva, crusts of bread, salmon bones with any shred of flesh, a speckled band salsa, strawberries Crushers, including wearing a pin dyed reddish juice that looked like a murderer's knife, ham scraps, banana skins and some eyes puff Fish that have fixed their broken heads, seemed to contemplate with wonder and terror such show.
Among these objects, shooting everyone in droves, our pen was pushed by the broom to to stop a large basket, from where he threw a pen a thousand times more foul than that of he had left.
To see one so much garbage, bruised, torn, dirty, smelling of wine, spices, grease, saliva, began to complain with these pathetic words: "Oh, little wind of my soul, lift me and take me out of here, God and all the saints!
I'm dying in this pile of filth, I I want to be free and pure as before.
Has largely come to the conclusion that bright day pleasure and happiness.
I do not say to me that pleasure brings nothing but degradation, lowliness, pain and misery.
And thank God that I come out alive.
Luckily not for me to fall back.
Get me out of here, man, and God give you all the kingdoms of the earth and sea, take me or I die in this rot. " The genie quickly rose to the very great height, and there is recessed above all, full glad, to purify and aerate your body.
Looked away from the palace and the city and then both went on without knowing where they went. "Not quiet annoying fields, nor the palaces, which are mansion of boredom, I make my fucking grace - the pen said .-- For we must find strength as soon block my genius.
Here's one thing that excites me.
I tell you I lose my head when I talk about this.
Afternoon was, my friend, but I've finally found the standard of my destiny.
Above Coloquémonos those who seem to be the leaders of one of the two armies, and see which will assemble here.
The pen, throbbing with emotion, saw the first meetings, and kept her eyes seemed to be the king of the army who later decided the victory.
The so-king wore a golden helmet, armor burnished steel, and pressed the back of superb gray horse.
None equaled him in anger and boldness, why its people, enthusiastic about such an example, which overwhelmed the contrary if were flocks of sheep.
But I have experience, and I do not equivocate more.
Glory is what most exalted the soul.
Look, my little friend, how to overcome the locals.
Give half of my life get on top of his helmet, of that golden helmet at whose summit will be inclined to Terror to all kings and nations of the earth.
His victorious army pursued on his heels to the enemy, and followed the triumphant march pen hovering over his head the hero.
Then he stopped, satisfied have wiped out in their flight the opposing army.
Vencederos camped, all hell broke King's tent, food and bedding preparósele, and at that time for reflection and rest, after the first excitement, until the pen fell to the ground covered with corpses, blood, ruins.
In his slumber, he thought he felt the cries of the wounded, mixed with horrible imprecations.
They soon come mothers, sisters, tender children, holding each other, because the pain loosened their faint bodies, illuminating With sad flashlight to find the father, son, husband, brother.
Men's horrible average between the executioner and undertaker, and loose dug deep pit, where they were thrown the unhappy dead of both armies.
The holy women found even among those offal, poorly covered by the earth, loved ones, and even had dug for them out again if the voices and cries that were heard no more than give them hope elsewhere that would perhaps seeking.
Returning from his lethargy, was observed the pen that he had seen was no hallucination, but actually very clear.
Tried to flee, but stood in awe, because at the nearby King's tent shouting and swearing sounded strong clash of arms.
Several men got out of there fighting, and a voice said: "Death to the tyrant," and other exclaimed, "have killed the king!" Indeed, this was, the hero was victorious been sacrificed for its ambitious generals, eager to share the loot and seize kingdom. "Wind dear, my dear, get me out of here - he shouted and waved his pen .-- fringe to fly Lift me; Take me by these winds of God, I do not want to see so many horrors
