Been so worthy, so severe, so natural, so without fear or fuss vulgar female who is honored or presumed to be, as if they were two duchesses and princesses who have had the whim going out at night to roam the streets and had been persecuted for a few minutes, by a footman spoiled and vain enough to believe seductive.
The count withdrew, therefore, writing to the married.
It seemed the single most beautiful and distinguished, but he was in high dudgeon against it.
Ines had no more for him than a junkyard dog.
This was more difficult than writing to Dona Beatriz.
Incur no hypocrisy here in the foolish imagine, when writing a story that moral society has a much higher than it actually is.
Say things like it is.
Is singular, it is not logical, it is absurd, but the following happens.
So it is in the customs that any gentleman say his bold thinking a married woman, that it offended rarely.
Will not be offended, when in fact you had proposed the infringement of a moral law civil and religious, his disgrace and his home, and perhaps the vileness of a theft of material goods if you do have a child.
Instead, just be single, as it is not completely lost not considered injured if you are asked to presuppose love without marriage in an explicit way or implied, and indeed, the lack of which then induce the single would be much less than that sought in the marriage.
The single, free, not deceive her husband, not fail in any undertaking, not to expose anyone for legitimate heir who ought not to be.
And yet, just be seductive however brutal, irreverent and outrageous that is, who dares claim a maiden, without proposing good order, and hardly any Tenorio, for frail, sickly and fehuelo God or the devil already done so do not tempt the ford, declares with unabashed boldness and daring to intending all of a married woman.
Our hero, without getting into philosophical about what has been said, I had only known.
So, by this consideration, although not attend to others, was more difficult to write to Inesita that Dona Beatriz.
Write to Dona Beatriz, as married, use, practice, jurisprudence established, it consented without pass for libel.
Write to Ines, however, could not vejarla be without despising and cruelly, as the Count did not tell or give rise to understanding that aspired to marry her.
Now, the Count and was in love, or thought of marrying anyone, let alone with Ines: only aspired to hang, but the Count was also their moral, and there was no time, good it was, that he deserved to stoop to lie and deceive a poor girl, into believing that he could marry her.
So write withdrew Count Dona Beatriz for reasons of prudence and strategy amatory, and withdrew Inesita write more delicate considerations.
But why not withdrew to know them and treat them both.
Let him brooding and run the most wise to this, and we fast forward, penetrating invisible in our heroes home and knowing them before the Count.
IV The most able and judicious critic, perhaps, among those who are in Spain I have already done two or three Sometimes, when judging other novels of mine, a favor and disfavor do not think I deserve, but if I deserve this time away from mend, incur more fully than ever in its censorship, which Moreover flatters me.
The critic assumes that all my characters are me, which makes a Proteus me because I had enough different characters portrayed, and further assumed that everyone talks about, in the same situation as I speak, with erudition, discreet subtleties and philosophical spirit someone of his lowly status and even sex, since women often spend my lists.
In this story, where, as the title indicates, the most important characters each to his own style, they will play smart, sin, could not help, contrary to the critic wants.
The blame, if any, because I refuse to plead guilty, is in the choice of subject.
Already chosen, I have no recourse but to make my heroes, retaining each of its nature, its passions and its unique features, all as discreet, subtle and ready know and I can because this has to be the major defect of these, and all them, the protagonist of the story.
I make this statement here for Dona Beatriz, who will soon hear about my readers not catch them off guard.
Doña Beatriz was listísima.
I do not remember which book, treatise or letter of the Old or New Testament, is said to the spirit blows where it pleases with that statement is more than enough to justify the plausibility that the spirit, whether it be divine, whether it be evil, it would blow being penetrated a girl of twenty years, he had no Dona Beatriz, born and raised in a the province of Cordoba.
There is also another macaronic sentence full of truth, which reads thus: Quod natura non dat, non proestad Salamanca, which can be inferred, as Logically, that Mother Nature has no need of Salamanca, or say to yourself in deep studies and throughout the world try to make very subtle and understanding to those who like to promote, even if they are women, and women's place.
This issue had Dona Beatriz, who, on his innate clearance, although there was no studied in any college, had some knowledge acquired in the common conversation her husband Don Braulio, who enjoyed a reputation for subject is illustrated, although only 3,000 had ESP annual salary.
Doña Beatriz and Ines, orphan of father and mother since childhood, had been in care and raised in the village priest's house.
They had some finquillas, who came to produce, well-managed, real income about 4,000 each.
This was difficult for the people, not to instill a violent passion, to marry any of them with rich gentlemen or lords, and as both girls were fine, real girls, was not likely to have wanted to marry with any carrier or no hick farmer rustic and ignorant.
Priest Father suspicion, but later, he had educated his eyes of pure evil good, and that result of their good education, went to left on the shelf images.
Revenue Manager, Don Braulio, tried to Dona Beatriz, and found that nice and unobtrusive that he loved her.
She thought he had found a man at Don Braulio who, though old, could fall in love with his talent and other noble garments of the soul, and love, or convinced that they were, were married after a short courtship.
The priest tutor who was very old, died a few months after this marriage.
Of a sister, a widow, was the priest's nephew, twenty-eight years old, called Paco Ramírez.
This was the universal heir of his uncle, consisting of the assets of the inheritance the house with furniture and books, worth around 40,000 real and liabilities in various debts, passing, also real, 30,000.
Paco Ramírez was a very handsome boy, and so restrained, economical, active and fruitful in resources, 50,000 reals with his father had left him money, using barley and wheat buying cheap grape harvest time, making wine drinking a few pipes I had, then by selling loads to carriers, and, in short, a thousand other wheeling and dealing However, while all legitimate, not only held loosely at his mother, but who dressed majeza it up with elegance, the use of people, and was gradually increasing the capital.
Often the priest had thought that his nephew might be a good husband to any its two eyes, but as it was a good game, the priest stopped his thought and purpose, and never did anything to be done.
Paco, and Ines Beatriz they loved as brothers.
Paco, who was six years older than most of them, and ten more than the second, which at first seems enormous age difference, they had a baby that he described as paternal.
They were daughters of the illustrious gentleman people, even though they had come to such poverty, and he, a plebeian, and archiplebeyo all four sides, and under the blessings of fortune that his uncle's eyes, how had he dared not even imagine that he could marry either?
So, Don Braulio married Dona Beatriz, and soon, as we have said, died priest, who was excellent subject.
Ines, as was natural, he went to live with his sister and brother, followed in Seville, and then followed this lively capital of Spain.
Since leaving the place left Paco entrusted to the administration of assets it had, with the assurance that no one had to manage them better.
Paco, in effect, responded to that trust.
So in the time our story begins, when appear in the Buen Retiro our two heroines, had between them just over 8,000 real year, which together with the 12,000 counted evil Don Braulio, totaling an annual taleguita very run and long-waisted.
Doña Beatriz, married and with a man who worshiped and wanted, and who was indebted to have left the place where he drowned, and spaced by large cities, limiting its mission to achieve the greatness to serve as a spur to the reluctant will of her husband; but Inesita, single and free and full of attractive, she would know and enforce complete with his wisdom, saw a reef Beatriz still intact, a rich mining of all property, and prosperity encumbrances.
Cautious and cunning, deftly bring the dream of one and the other in the ways that she deemed conducive at the end to which he aspired, and already committed and placed in him, and when was very difficult to return ago, it declared its purpose and show the term, if not see him.
More mixed marriages have been and see every day.
With these plans and intentions, the evening of the Earl heard at the Ministry of Finance who their unknown, they talked alone in his poor house, while waiting Don Braulio, who was working in the Secretariat. - I do not understand, Ines - Beatriz said, sitting in an armchair in front of his sister -
