(None of these reasons bring change in Spain today.
Economists explain why this is, so.) The fourth point, and perhaps the most powerful, is that our century, being more civilized is also more spiritual.
Music is an art more spiritual than all others and now blossoms with extraordinary prosperity.
There is hardly a fool, who, had he lived two or three centuries ago would have had not enjoyed more to eat and not enjoyed, or at least say he enjoys listening to much wiser and complicated music.
As was the concept of materialism of a fourteenth century Catholic priest in Catholic Spain, regarding the essential motives of human actions.
The music also moves a man and there are none who do not like to go to the Royal theater.
But, the spirituality of our century is artificial, and this is the reason why some, who do not understand are accused of materialism in our century.
In the past, it did not matter and the case was left at home like something lost and given to the devil, those in the mill falling, of which as subjects mistreated and punished rebelled where the people came to take in the most cruel asceticism.
In our time, the people attempt to rehabilitate the matter, with words that feel good, and they purify when they are able.
At last, the matter is the work of God, and, although some are perverted by sin, there is no thing as abominable as insurance.
In the end, they have been resurrected and go to heaven, yes, well transfigured and glorious.
Because of this, it does not seem bad to me that we go polishing, perfecting and subtilizing this beautiful world.
To shine it, some men in certain developed countries wash all day, a rare custom unknown in Christianity a hunred or two hundren years prior, against which the piety of Mister Veuillot and other holy fathers would vehemetly denounce.
Because of this, they would not understand the significance of the priciple surrounding the ode of Pindaro: High gift is water.
Rather, water was looked at with horror and fear, as the major cause of evil, above all, for persons of a certain age
