 Because it's true that
climbed to a height and went down to a hollow without a doctor made burning panegyrics to what
looked from above or from below. For me, broken and unresponsive of soul and body, everything
was as equal and the same color, and even the great vertigo outcrops was cured with the frequency
of seeing that day, and care that was so awful and path so narrow, twisted and lopsided, that it
got out to pass Neluco ... covering his face with his hat on the side of the abyss. Of runs' Pendias
"not say what was the falling down rather than down.

When least expected, I found myself at the port, which I found less interesting than first time,
because he looked the other way around then, with dull line of low mountains for much of his
background, instead of mountain grandeur in this second visit were running behind me. He also
floated on the clouds, as in the mountains where had risen, and so deplored Neluco, because I
enjoy the show prevented admirable, I had pondered both Chisco his way. But what could be lacking
in point of view panoramas after he had seen the priest from near there? Referíle, as we that getting
inside a rugged desert, Bear "made a reguñu" found there the other time, according to claim
my footman. If not surprised, because I was aware of other similar. Notwithstanding which, he
added, in that same port in the early grazing summer months, and without risk usually many cattle
herds, even the valleys of the sea, and even taught me some cowboy huts recently abandoned and
will soon disappear under the snow. Neither seemed so long as the first Once the journey,
not so fatiguing continuous contemplation of its aridity, which might consist I made the other
entrance "gate" the output of the time, or acquired habit Now for me to walk through mountains
and mainly in nice Neluco company.

Transposed to end the top of the mountain which borders the port to
the south, and turned to look at the green and vast plain of the valley
of the three fields.

With the spectacle revived my sleepy spirit, and eagerly began to breathe the air of the beautiful
valley, as if I until then had lacked the necessities of life, if not so admired Neluco strange
when I declared, because, for a physiological law, weight 'ideal' large moles that inundates
the adventurous spirit of the open plains and clear, participates physical body as well. Constantly
lowering our horses, they could no longer with tail, along the paths that I had met up, half
down is left of them Neluco and took the other to the right. A little time to walk in it, we
discover at the end of valley leaning on that spur of the mountain and below us, a great tower
manor with a group of buildings added to it, a short distance from a village clustered in a leafy
rinconada of Mt.

Pointing to the village and then to the tower and its accessory, and while holding his horse, Neluco
said:

- That is Provedaño hamlet, and here is the end of our day today.

After the hearing stretched by the splendid panorama of the valley, and was giving me about
it all News Chisco had given me, and many more. Agreed with me that while to be quiet the whole
landscape had already printed lines and its colors the influence
of their neighborhoods Castile, and continue down.

When just down the valley, I am not satisfied with spreading the light on it, nor inhale the fragrance
of velvety meadows, I would have wallowed in them in good earns as a beast, and as a beast
that walked Envy free grazing there. I consulted with this bestial Neluco occurrence, and we
celebrate both with loud laughter; but all in all, there were still
a couple of reasons, physiological too, pointed to by the doctor and
discussed by both, to explain the craving quite "rationally".

Neluco still resist expanding the limited information given me by the way on the person to whom
we visited, we walked through the plain a short distance, and we, not the tower, but the back
of a body building joined to it by the wall a portal. Among the façade of the building and we stood
another wall lower that covered the entire length, and over this wall was seen hugging a bullock
cart the building and parallel to it, in the car had a load of hay "green" in my way see,
and as the most authoritative Neluco of shoot 'dry', and on the load, a man throwing tall
with great verve impetuous "pitchforks" of it to the anchovy wall, where another person picked
up and drove deeper. Nothing particular was all this, but it had, and a lot to me, what happened
next, and it was that turned suddenly towards us a man who was unloading the car, and as we
looked frowning her eyes, leaning gracefully on the pitchfork nailed by their points in the hay,
I observed Neluco was discovered that before him and greeted him with the name of the gentleman
to whom we to visit. Descubrimerlo then I too, full of strangeness, and we got out the two,
almost while hay unloader truck jumped down, very diligent and graceful, by Raber.

Representing fifty years or corridos, had good color, very crowded head hair rowdy and loud,
small and skinny face, and even seemed smaller than it was, so thick beard that was half, the
beard and hair beginning to gray, the forehead wide, and prominent brow, the nose curve, and bright
eyes look green, firm and searching; face, finally, and somewhat cervantesca "aquijotada."
Took big steps with long legs to contact us that we reach out and balance the body, wiry and
unleavened bread and some leaning forward, the rhythm of the stride, wearing a suit modest
dark cloth, strong and inexpensive, and anchors wore sandals.

Mediquillo of Tablanca met and hugged him very joyful and loving, to me greeted me with courtesy
and manners of a gentleman, the exquisitely polite, because there of them without a hint of
education. When he learned who I was, by the mouth of Neluco, clasped effusion my hand in hers,
which seemed so strong and even by the rough palms, rather than flesh and blood, those secular
oak forests upright.

Low voice timbre and some tune, like all deaf people, because what
he was and more that degree of "lieutenant", he said:

- Do not ask
your pardon for the habits and occupations in which I found, because
if it had to decline to hire me as often as I use in these harsh work,
not to employ me.

I give them all the bread that nourishes my body, but help me keep him, and as a par that convenient
to me are very nice and I have to honor, what they accuse me of as a sin against the rings of
my lineage?

Knowing then that we purpose to spend the night there, he turned quickly
to Neluco and said with gentle smile

- Because of that, and since
you know the house well, take care you do the honors of it this gentleman,
while I give below some provisions that are necessary for be entirely
yours.

Enter, therefore, rise, ask for and take as to feel hungry what you have.

This pushed me gently toward the tower, then took two hacks for the war horses, and physically
dragged to the hatch where it had left the enclosure, while name of his voice to the servant
who was responsible for them.

I Guiomar Neluco and I followed him: the portal was open, sandwiched between the tower and an end
buildings that form two sides of the spacious corralada we entered, closing on the other side
of a wall that joins the other corner of the tower with the front
border of the square buildings.

These were three, but in one piece and the same height, and different each time, but all more
modern than the tower, particularly the principal. Was not this house as ostentatious as the
Pomares of promise but as "good birth" and certainly most ancient lineage. Good large fenced garden
and near the pen. The most notable of this was for me the tower, which gave two fronts the corral,
one of which, not at its center, was the gateway to her low narrow and reinforced with huge
nails and large rusty iron bars. Had four floors and ended with a graceful stone parapet with gargoyles
to drain roof targeted. It seemed a venerable old building, and I was right on the course.

After
giving an overview of all those features accessories, stables and chicken coops inclusive, of
the mansion gentleman whom we visited, and always under the direction of Neluco, I followed
him inside and I astragalus upstairs, so we could piece called stage or receiving room, spacious
with a large balcony lights iron, joists outdoor tables and floor with mighty chestnut. The
walls hung portraits of old, family, in order of seniority, from
the coat of mail to the wig and ruffled; two gold carved cornucopias,
similar to those that were in my room in the Tablanca mansion, and
a penitent St. Jerome, very spoiled.

The furniture style kept no rhyme or reason, and each and all its contents around the room, and in
the same room, she started very least the footprint of skilful hands of the "lady of the House
", it was missing for not having the owner still needed to throw the cross his loneliness, which
should not weigh much. Surely, this woman had not consented piles of old and moth-eaten tomes on
the red damask sofa, or a carved oak bench reps two green chairs, no two stones Celtic and Roman
a heap of rubble on the bench of oak and walnut console, despite being one and the other good
prey in their endless ancestral archaeological explorations in these regions and surrounding
villages, and a shotgun behind the door of the balcony, or a Colodra hung a portrait. It would also
have found Mrs absent much to order, or even that dedusting and even be swept in the next room,
which was the office or study room of the Lord. Because That of the heavens so help me! I
was also on books from their shelves, and reams newspapers, and bundles of papers and piles
of magazines, and fossil bones, and footlights and "bowls" Roman, bronze and rusty, and copies
of panicles many breeds, in chairs, on the floor, at the writing table and I think even in the
air!

Walking on this research, we made a woman more than fifty, clean and friendly, to ask what we
wanted to take while it was time for dinner in that house was that of the eight, for suspected
that we had to come faint ... Dímosle thanks, securing of any food that needed to supper,
and leave us again alone.

Neluco still refused to provide me with the news that I was asking about how to be that gentleman
of such strange and striking garments, preferring to go himself dándoseme to know ... and "then
we would talk."

For one thing, reading the labels of some books on the shelves, the doctor took one and put in my
hands.

- This is his work - I said at the same time - recently printed by the Royal Academy Spanish after
having publicly honored at the event.

Titulábase: historical essays, etymological and philological research on family names from Castilian
the tenth century to our age.

- And this one - added Neluco, while I read the index of the first,
showing the label of another book -: News of the behetrías historic,
primitive Castilian freedoms ... This book is a wonder of erudition
and wit, and is very admired by the Montagnards who breathing, and
traditionalism "scientific and democratic patriarchal is inspired.

Shown in, among other things, the laws of the Council, the ancient and important livestock on
the mountain.

And here again, The Edda, translation of the poem of that name, something like the Iliad of the
Swedes is the dawn literary company of our friend. Then in every newspaper and every magazine
of those who are scattered here, there is some work of scholarship or criticism, and straightened
them all to the good and the greater glory of the province that is very marked in telling him among
their children, and particularly in the region he was born, lives and want to die ... You see,
... The Garcilaso ... admirable biographical series of this dynasty of warriors and poets
of junction quiet ... Let's see what roll is this ... pull you over there, because it will not fit
on the table ... A plane made and signed by him, well recently. I already had some news of this
great work. Project channeled and risks of Híjar from Riaño to Reinosa ... It seems the work of an
accomplished engineer ... Well insurance have this binder full of notes of work in preparation.
Did not I? ... The mountain part of the navigators in the discovery of America ... Biography of
the famous D. dramatic poet Pedro Calderón de la Barca ... Juan de la Cosa ...

- I know that has two novels and a legend because I have seen unpublished manuscripts, historical
and hill too ... His style elegant, spirited, clean Castilian, net as blood running through
his veins; of their way of seeing and feeling the earth mother and singing her beauty already
you will notice when I admire in his writings ... But canary! allow me tell you frankly that this
must have formal men like us, who You have no forgiveness of God
to make me aware me that these things should be very familiar, even
as the mountain is his blood, as it does not (although this should
suffice) because all her Spanish.

Neluco was right, and so he confessed with the utmost freshness. Ah, as if he had known To my ignorance
in these individuals! ... All my learning literature Spanish could comfortably in a cigarette
paper! Outside Madrid writers did not know one, or name. Fortunately, no Neluco insisted on
the issue, that if you insist, singing plane. And why deny, if it was the truth and I, until
then, I was embarrassed it?

In these and other, as it was evening and we were almost in the dark between the squares of the
firm, returned to the hall, at precisely the same time he entered the master of the house, a lighted
lamp in his hand. We apologized for the delay after giving us good nights, and continued walking
towards his office on whose board put the lamp. We returned after he us ... and another surprise
for me! The rustic grass had replaced Downloader the coarse garb of the trade with a coat closed
and all associated accessories to the pledge of eternal difference,
including the dressing, very careful, beard and hair.

More than a man with remnants of peasant village, it seemed then that singular campurriano cutting
character, a minister, or something like that, he was about to give audience. So well sat
coat, and as "Lord were his manners.

Such as walking deep in these reflections I will look up and down with ill-concealed curiosity,
notóla him and he said, smiling:

- Do not think, my friend, I have these harnesses aristocratic dress so you can see that I have them.
Less than that of Infanzon my weaknesses without privileges. Neluco should know. But I like
to give each what he deserves, and I have still quite frank with
you, that is a gentleman and man of the world to welcome in my house
for the first time, dress road.
