 Disturbed
with his passion to the musician and was in turn touched and transfigured by the atmosphere of fervor
artistic surrounding the illustrious disciple of Wagner.

The revelations from him, the Master, as Hans Keller said with unction, flashed before the eyes
of the singer, as the lightning became Paul on the Damascus road. Now was clear. The music was not
a means to delight the crowds, showing off the beauty and worldwide leading a life of famous
courtesan, was a religion, the mysterious force which relates the inner infinite immensity that
surrounds us. I felt the same anointing the repentant sinner who wakes up in religious fervor does
not hesitate to sink in cloister. It was Magdalena, played in the middle of a life of frivolity
and gallantry crazy scandals by the mystic sublimity of art and was
thrown at the feet of Him, the sovereign master, as the most victorious
of men, lord of the sublime mystery that mob souls.

The image of the great dead outbursts seemed to witness all of that love, passion mix carnal
and mystical arts: her blue eyes, deep in the wilderness, crossed
the walls the cottage on the outskirts of Munich, where he cooed in
mind, the disciple enthusiastic and devoted.

- Tell me about the
- Leonora said rubbing his head on the chest hard German musician,
with sweet abandon of passion .-- How satisfied would have known him
like you!

... Still I saw him in Venice were his last days ... was dying.

And conjured that meeting, one of his strongest memories and well
delineated.

The fall encouraging later reflections of opal with dark waters of the Grand Canal from a gondola
next to hers in the opposite direction, and her blue eyes, compelling, brilliant, eyes of those
who can not be confused, they are glass windows behind which shines the chosen divine fire,
the demigod and that seemed to envelop her in a flash of light caerulea. He was, he felt sick,
would die. His heart was wounded, perhaps pierced by mysterious melodies, how those virgin
hearts that bleed on altars bristling swords.

Leonora was smaller than it really was, shrunken and broken by grief,
leaning its enormous head of genius on the breast of his wife Cosima.

He looked as if he had still ahead. He had removed the black felt to feel better in the cool of the
evening, waving his lank gray hair. Have a look covered his face Leonora spacious and bulging,
that Although it seemed all over your body like a chest full of mysterious ivory riches glaucous
and imperious eyes shining with the cold blue steel under the flag of bushy eyebrows, and nose
arrogant, strong as the beak of a bird fight, looking for above the sunken mouth sensual and
strong jaw framed by a gray beard running down the wrinkled neck straps and tendons. It was
a quick appearance, but he saw, and her figure little sore, bent by age and illness, remained
in his memory as these landscapes glimpsed the light of lightning. She saw him when he came
to Venice to die in the silence of the channels, in that quiet disturbed only by the stroke
of the oar, where many believed had perished years earlier while writing his Tristan, the hymn to
death pure and liberating. I was almost lying on the black boat, and the crash of water against
the marble of the palaces echoed in her imagination like the wailing horns and spooky burial Siegfried,
and he seemed to contemplate the hero of poetry going to Walhalla of immortality and glory, on a
shield of ebony, inert as the young hero of Germanic legend: followed by the wail of humanity, poor
prisoner of life are looking forward to a hole a loophole through which to penetrate the ray of beauty
to gladden and comfort.

And the singer, moved by the memory, watched with watery eyes the wide beret black velvet, a lock
of gray hair, two feathers worn and corroded steel, all the memories
of the teacher, kept piously in a case by Hans Keller.

- You knew
it, tell me how he lived.

Tell me everything: tell me about the poet ... the hero.

And the musician, not least emotion, evoked memories of Wagner.

Described it as I had seen in his time of health, small, tightly
wrapped in his overcoat, with a strong and heavy bones, despite its
thinness, restless as a nervous woman, as a vibrant spring package
with a bitter smile, contracting your lips subtle and color.

After came his genius, his whims had been a legend. Their work clothes, gold satin with buttons
that were flowers with pearls, her passionate love for the sumptuous colors, fabrics that spread
like waves of light in his study, velvets and silks with reflections of fire scattered over
the furniture and tables without utility, no other purpose than its beauty, to encourage the eye
with the incentive of its shades. And the teacher's clothes, all the brilliant stuffs of Oriental
splendor, impregnated rose essence, whole bottles strewn randomly, saturate the atmosphere
of a perfume fabulous garden, capable of beating the strongest and that excited the monster in
their struggle with unknown.

And then Hans Keller described the man, ever restless, shaken by mysterious blasts, unable to
sit unless it was at the piano or the dining table, receiving standing to visitors coming
and going by his room, his hands waving in nervous uncertainty relocating the couches, chairs
scrambling, looking for a cigar or glasses was not ever before removing
their pockets and torturing his velvet beret, so soon fall over one
eye and pushed toward the opposite end and had to throw to the top
with cries of joy or squeezed between his fingers clenched in the
heat of an argument.

The musician closed his eyes, thinking in silence still hear the waterfall and commanding voice
teacher. Oh! Where was I? From which closely followed that huge star melody of the stars, whose
echoes could only receive his ear? And Hans Keller, to stifle his emotions, sat at the piano
while Leonora, suggestions, approached him, stiff as a statue, and hands lost in the rough
haired musician, sang a fragment of the immortal Tetralogy.

The worship of the great dead of becoming a new woman. Keller worshiped as a reflection lost
one star off for ever felt the need to humiliate, sweetness of sacrifice as the devotee who worships
at the priest, seeing in him the man, but the choice of divinity. I wanted to kneel before their
plants so that the stepped for that would make carpet of her charms: she wanted to serve as a slave
to that lover who was the depositary of the thought of him, and seemed
gigantic for such a treasure.

Cuidábale servant with exquisite sweetness of love, he was in his trips to Leipzig, to Geneva,
to Paris in spring, when the big concerts, and she, the famous artist remained between racks without
feeling the nostalgia of applause, waiting for the moment when Hans, sweaty and tired, left
the baton amid the acclamations of the crowd Wagner, to wipe his
face with an almost filial caress.

And half of Europe ran, spreading the light of the teacher, it obscured voluntarily like one
of those patrician, dressed as slaves, the apostles were anxious the progress of the good news.

The German teacher was left to worship; received all caresses of enthusiasm and love the distraction
of an artist who, concerned with the sounds, just to hate the words.

He taught his language to Leonora that someday could sing in Bayreuth, making his most fervent
desire, and instilled the thinking that guided the teacher to draw its main protagonists.

So when Leonora was presented on stage a winter with the winged Valkyrie helmet, Virgin wand waving
bellicose prodújose burst of enthusiasm that had to follow throughout
his career.

Hans shook himself in his director's chair, admiring the ease with which her lover had been able
to assimilate the spirit of the master.

- If the you hear! - Said with conviction - I have the certainty that
it would appear satisfied.

And so the two ran the world. In spring contemplating it from afar with the baton in hand,
raising winged victory the glory of the master of mass instrumentation hiding in the Bavarian
hill of Bayreuth, in the pit called the Abyss Mystic. In Winter was he who was excited to hear about
times hojotoho! Valkyrie fiercest who fears the austere father Wotan; seeing other awakening
among the flames, before the game Siegfried, the hero who fears nothing in the world, and shudders
at the first glance of love.

But artists' passions are equal to the flowers for its intense perfume and short duration. The German
teacher was rude childish, erratic, fickle, ready to clap before a new toy. Leonora, referring
to his past, he acknowledged could have reached the old submissive to him, obeying his every
whim and nervousness. But one day Keller abandoned as she had left to others, it was dragged through
the faded charm of a contralto consumptive and languid, he had the sickly perfume, the morbid
delicacy of a flower range. Leonora, mad with love and despair, chased him, knocked at her door
like a servant, felt a bitter pleasure seeing first despised and unknown, until reaction character
in it revived its old arrogance.

No more love. Farewell to the artists! Interesting people, but no longer wanted them. Were preferable
to ordinary men had met at other times, and the more idiots, better. Would never fall in love.

And tired, lost illusions, relaunched in the world. The legend that bothered gallant madness of
their times, the fury with which the men ran toward her, offering her riches in exchange for a
passive affair. Madness returned to take her in his gear. The men talked about killing her if
she resisted, as if their duty was given to the first that his body felt like it would result
in a negative and betrayal. The gloomy Macchia committed suicide in Naples at her insensitive to
her sad sonnets in Vienna fought and died for it one of his admirers, an eccentric Englishman
followed her everywhere, projecting onto the head a fatal tree shade and vowing to kill every
one that she preferred to ... He had already enough! I was tired of that life, felt sick before
the male voracity that protruded to step in everywhere. He seemed shaken by the storm that triggered
his passion name.

I wanted to dive, go, rest given a dream without limits, and thought as bed a soft and mysterious,
in that far away from his childhood, where his only relative, simple and devoted aunt wrote
that twice a year, recommending to put his soul in order with God, which was helping her with
her devotions.

He also believed, without knowing why, that this return to the homeland soften the memory painful
for the ingratitude that had cost the life of his father. Look after the poor old happy with their
presence that life dull and gray had crept without the slightest ripple. His voice and his
body needed rest. And suddenly one night, after being Isolde last time before the age of Florence,
gave the order to leave a Beppa, the faithful and silent partner
of his life wandering.

A homeland and hopefully find something to keep her there, leaving no return to a hectic world!

It
was the princess of the stories to become a pastor, and there lying dormant, in the shade of orange,
shaken by the memory sometimes, wanting to enjoy forever this quiet, fiercely repelling Rafael, trying
to wake her up as Siegfried awakens Brunilda through the fire.

No: Friends no more. I did not want love, she knew what it meant. In addition, late.

And Rafael stirring sleepless in bed, going over the story in the dark cut into pieces, with
gaps to fill in your divination. He felt dwarfed, annihilated by men who had preceded him in
worship this woman.

A king, great artists, beautiful and aristocratic paladins as Count Russian tycoons that they
possessed great wealth. And he, poor provincial deputy dark, submitted as a little boy to
the despotism of his mother and almost no money for his expenses,
was intended to happen!

He laughed with bitter irony of his own courage; understood Leonora's
mocking accent, energy that had repelled all uncouth dares to try
to have a great lady force.

But despite the contempt he himself was inspired, faltábanle forces
to retire.

He was caught in the wake of seduction, love the turmoil that followed the artist everywhere, imprisoning
the men, throwing to the ground broken and unwilling, as servants of beauty.

III

- Earlier today we are: good morning, Rafaelito ... I long to see the market. Girl was I have the
event's arrival on Wednesday. Many people!

And Leonora, forgotten and the crowds of big cities, they were astonished
at the confusion of people waving in the Plaza del Prado, where every
Wednesday is verified the large district market.

The farmers came with the cartridge belt bulging money to buy what needed for the whole week there
in the desert, surrounded by orange trees were in a position to another the orchard, elegant and graceful
peasant operetta which combed as girls, cambric skirts clear that when collected, bared and
fine stockings fitting shoes. The tanned face and hands was all that hard betrayed the hardiness
of those girls who was living a rich culture in abundance.

Along the walls of the hens clucked, tied in bunches; amontonábanse
pyramids eggs, vegetables and fruits and stores the clothiers portable
extendíanse the color bands, pieces of muslin and calico and black
cloth suit all coastal eternal.

Outside the Prado, the peasants looked to the market Alborchí pigs or horses proved at Hostal Gran.
Was buying everything for the week, the day aimed to business, the massive influx of people in
the orchards, to borrow money from lenders or return it by far; repopulate the hen house, buy
the pig, whose growing obesity forward was to follow the family or time to acquire the horse, cause
for concern and desperate savings.

The crowd, smelling of sweat and earth, agitábase in the market, in the light of the first
sunlight. They embraced the orchard to meet, and with the basket on her hip metíanse in the chocolate
to hold the meeting, the farmers formed a circle, and from time to time went to drink a glass of
sweet brandy to take power.

And through the middle of this invasion paperback, passed the people of the town, the burguesillos
of customs with a layer arranged old and a huge basket, which got
the supplies, then to bargain tenaciously; the ladies who saw the
Wednesday market that cheered the extraordinary monotony of their
existence, the unemployed who spent long hours standing by the post
a vendor friend, browsing what each had in his basket, muttering about
greed of some and the generosity of others.

Rafael gazed in wonder at her friend. How beautiful it was! ... Anyone could guess in it the
artist's immense popularity!

It looked like a gardener, fresh calico dress, as heralding the spring,
the neck a pañolito red and blonde hair uncovered, combed artistic
neglect, knotted quickly on the neck.

Not a jewel or a flower. His stature and elegance was all that made her stand out from the
crowd. And under the curious and hungry look of the whole market, Rafael smiled in front of her,
admiring her fresh, rosy, with the vivacity of the morning ablution, indefinable perfume spreading
a strong and healthy beef that reveled in the young.

He spoke laughingly, as if to blinded by the brightness of your teeth all gaper that watched from afar.
For all the market lay a curious rumor, buzz of admiration and outrage, seeing face to face,
the face of the whole city, talking with smile of friendship to the deputy and singer.

Friends of Rafael, the main characters of the municipality that were
in the market could not conceal their satisfaction.

Until the last sheriff felt a certain pride. "He spoke with Quef. He smiled. " It was an honor
for the match to a woman so beautiful treat kindly Don Rafael, but,
well considered, deserved this and more.

And those men, who presence of their wives were careful to keep silent when they spoke with
anger of foreign admirábanla the instinctive fervor that beauty inspires envy his deputy.

The old orchard wrapped the two in a loving gaze.

"They were well matched, which could make a handsome couple! "

And the ladies pretended not to see them passing by his side, they walked away with a twisted
mouth gesture of pride, and to meet a friend, said with ironic tone: "Have you seen ...? There's
that throwing the bait in front of everyone, dona Bernarda's son. " This was scandalous decent ladies
would have to stay home.

Leonora, impervious to the curiosity, oblivious to the hundreds of eyes fixed on her, still
talking about their business. Beppa had stayed with the aunt, and her with his gardener and another
woman, who stood a few steps with big baskets, had come to buy an
endless things, the enumeration of her laugh.

Now it was dependable; yes sir.

He knew the price I ate, it could indicate, penny by penny, the cost of his life, believed to
have receded that takes time to Milan, when with the score under his arm, entered the house
of spice for macaroni, butter and coffee. How fun that! ... And not wanting to prolong expectation
longer shocked people who played their smiles and voluble talk in the worst way, gave his hand
to Rafael bye.

It was getting late, if he remained there chatting, find nothing, the best in the market would
have been others.

- A required: hasta la vista, Rafaelito.

And the young man saw his way through the crowd, followed by two farmers,
as stopped at the stalls, welcomed by a friendly smile which parishioner
sellers ever bargained not, how was interrupted to pet shop boys dirty
and howler that poor women had the arm, pulling from his best fruit
basket to brag.

The admiration of the whole market went through the posts. So SEÑORET! shouted the vendors. Vinga,
Leonor! said other calling her name to show greater privacy. And she smiled, spoke familiarly with
all, put his hand at every moment to Russia leather bag hanging from his right hand and, as
a cloud of flies, Men swarmed in around it, crippled, blind and maimed,
advised of the generosity of the lady who given the small change in
handfuls.

Rafael followed her with his eyes, welcoming smile forced the remarkable accomplishments of congratulating
him on his good fortune.

The mayor - a man who, they said the enemies trembled in the presence of his wife - said with sparkling
eyes, a woman like that was he able to do all sorts of crazy stuff. And every voice joined the chorus
of praise envious considered as indisputable fact that Rafael was the lover of the artist, while
this smiled bitterly recalling his explanations with Leonora.

I no longer see. Was on the other end of the market, hidden by the waves of heads. From time then
distinguished by a golden moment his helmet over other women.

I wanted to go there, but could not. Beside him Matias, the successful exporter of orange Remedies
that rich man whose daughter spent the day with his mother and obedient
disciple.

That man, heavy and slow speech thought, enmarañábale in his talk
on trade orange. He gave advice, a whole plan had discoursed and offered
to present Congress, measures of protection for exporters of orange.
The wealth of the city; all swimming in money, he guaranteed it with
his hand over his heart.

And Rafael, looking lost in the bottom of
the Prado, watching the rapid appearance of golden hair to be convinced
that Leonora was still there, sounded like a dream that man who they
claimed the malicious, was destined to become his second parent. All
the slow drip of words, only a few came to his brain, digging into
it with the persistence of the obsession "Glasgow ... Liverpool ...
needed new markets ... cheapen rail fares ... English agents are thieves
... "

"Well, that'll be damned," Rafael replied mentally. And on
and show their assent what is not heard, to nod, looking anxiously
down there, fearing Leonora was gone