 

Equipped Juana of uncommon talent, a lively and ardent imagination, he was educated in a way
not common for that time: and especially in the Greco-Roman language, did admirable progress,
that he spoke with a charming ease. The sage says Luis Vives that any material which is treated
in this language, as if suddenly answered out in Castilian. These qualities unia of a slender
figure and very interesting, it was the type of beauty, full of grace and dignity, her big eyes,
expressive and ragged, denote the rare talent and energy of his soul, that which accompanied the
dignified and elegant manners of the court of Elizabeth, paragon of virtue and morality.

All these great circumstances, together with the power of their fathers, and of Doña Juana one of
those games more advantaged for any young prince in Europe. These same circumstances constituted
a creditor to be idolized princess, even for not I had the pleasure and honor to admire. Clear
proof that not long time some Princes to see what was what could be the owner of gem that is invaluable.
D. Fernando and Queen Elizabeth would not also extend their marriage, so I count only fifteen
years, ie, in 1494, adjusted to the desired wedding D. Philip, Archduke of Austria, Duke of Flanders,
Artois and the Tyrol, and the son of German Emperor Maximilian I. Adjusted they were, instantly
was begun preparations to march with the pomp and solemnity worthy of the daughter of such powerful
men. A fleet of twenty ships high board made ready in the port of Laredo, embarking on her fifteen
thousand men of war including crew. A Don Alonso Enriquez, Grand Admiral of Castile, was entrusted
with the command this fleet: D. went Chaplain Diego de Villaescusa, dean of Jaen, and the charge by
the king to serve and to be the immediate command of the princess, was Dona Teresa Velasco, wife
of the admiral who led this expedition. The camera and all destinations within membership
to his person, was served by ladies and gentlemen of the first nobility of Spain; so it says
in the lists of them is D. Lorenzo de Padilla. It is needless to mention clothes and jewelry
that were to adorn so August princess can be said for short which had been arranged with elegance
and profusion.

Preparations finished, went the whole royal family to the port of
Laredo Almazan, to dismiss them as Escelsa princess, except the king
D. Fernando found that holding of Cortes in Aragon, could not verify
it, very reluctantly.

The late Prince D. Juan, Joanna's brother, and his August mother accompanied her to the entrance
of the ship, where drowned in a sea of ??tears, gave each other the most tender and loving
God. A God that echoed through every corner of the boat, in recognition to the real people
who were on the ground.