 Instructions made themselves, attending to them
with other Captains Ramon Montaner, one of the greatest writers of credit, speaking always in the
most serious advice and execution of this expedition. Entregáronse to two gentlemen, whose names the
time and neglect left wrapped in darkness, then depart Constantinople, and give their embassy
on behalf of the entire nation. They arrived in a few days with a reinforced hat Roger. Known
his coming, and with any news of the embassy wore, were received with grateful Andronico countenance
and shows a lot of love. Proposed one of the two Ambassadors, the oldest in years, its embassy,
??which the Catalans and Aragonese after making peace between King Charles of Naples, King of Sicily,
Don Frederic, to whom They served, determined not to seek rest at home, but increase with new facts
military glory and fame gained in past wars, they had enough forces for this in number and value,
soldiers exercised by a long and dangerous war, known Captains for their victories and nobility of
blood in the name of all offered him their assistance against Turks with folded taste and liking,
and take their weapons in favor of the house of Palaeologus, Unique Friends of Aragon, when their
parts were too falls and expand his empire destroying enemies along the name of Christian, who so
boldly and proudly I wanted to establish in the provinces usurped the Greek Empire.

Emperors were thrilled with the unexpected offer of the embassy and
Catalan, to seem as important to its interests, because they understood
that those same, which I came to offer, were the ones with so much
horror and fear in all of Italy won and sustained the Kingdom of Sicily.

Magnificent words thanked the ease with which the whole nation offered serve, and the same are received.
He wanted talks then the conditions that had a soldier, and so the ambassadors asked the salary
according to their instructions for people war, and Roger to give him the title of Grand Duke, and
wife one of his granddaughters, because I wanted to secure more such items in their service. Andronico
without altering or moving thing they asked, the given, regardless of the quality and condition
of unequal Roger to her granddaughter, but all this inequality could match the reputation of
the people, who like General ruled, and being so oppressed the Greek arms of the Turks, and
unsafe the fidelity of their own.

Blind and lived in a village banished Bithynia Juan Lascar, legitimate successor of the Empire,
and but useless to occupy it, living it, was the possession of Andronico tyrannical, and it
causes justified to take up arms the present government malcontents,
and so full of fear and suspicion, he was obliged to have recourse
to foreign nations for war and defense of his person.

Service received ten thousand Massegatas, whom the vulgar call Alans, barbaric people customs,
Christian in faith rather than in the works. Had her dwelling on the other side of Danube, and
recognized by the Lord to Scite Europe. Emperor his first EMBI Embassy offering to serve. Author
Gregoras Nicephore Greek of the time referred to as Andronico's considered much in so many words:
Fuel as pleasing to the Emperor as if from heaven.