 Coming into the world of Febrer
was an event that was widely spoken across the city. The great lady parturient remained secluded
in his palace forty days, and during this time the doors were open, the hall full of carriages,
the servants formed in the lobby, lounges full of visitors, the tables covered with sweets,
cakes and soft drinks. There were days of the week for the reception of each class. Some were only
for the sausages, aristocracy of the aristocracy, houses privileged few and families, united by kinship
of continuous crosses, other days for men, traditional nobility lived, not knowing why, subject
to the above, then received the mossons, lower class but family atmosphere with the great, intellectuals
of the time, doctors, lawyers and notaries who offered their services to illustrious families.

Don
Horacio recalled the splendor of these receptions. The ancients knew how to do things big.

- When did your father - told his grandson - was the last party in this house. Eight hundred
Majorcan pounds paid a confectioner by azucarillos Borne, biscuits
and soft drinks.

Remembered his father Jaime unless your grandfather. His memory was a sympathetic figure and
sweet, but slightly blurred. To think he just saw a soft beard and some clear as hers, a bald
forehead, a sweet smile and sunglasses that glowed when bending. Had that boy had had an affair
with her cousin Jane, austere lady call all the Popess, who lived as a nun and enjoyed enormous
wealth, lavish gifts at other times the pretender Don Carlos, and now the people around her church.

The
breaking of her father she was undoubtedly the cause of "Pope Joan"
is maintained away from this branch of his family, trying to Jaime
with hostile indifference.

His father was a naval officer, following a family tradition. Was in Pacific war, was a lieutenant
in a frigate which bombed the port of Callao, and as if he expected to have given only a test of
courage, he retired from service immediately. Then he married a lady of Palma, small fortune,
whose father was military governor the island of Ibiza. "The Pope Joan", speaking a day with
James, had tried to hurt him, his voice cold and haughty gesture.

- Your mother was a noble family of knights ... but it was not sausage like us.

James spent the first years of his life, he began to realize his surroundings, without seeing his father
more than I did the quick trip to Mallorca. It was the Progressive Party and the Revolution of 1868
had made him deputy. Then, when King Amadeus of Savoy, the monarch revolutionary defied and
abandoned by the traditional nobility, he had to attend new historical men to form his court.
The sausage, a requirement of the party, was a senior official of the palace. His wife, requested
by him to be moved to Madrid, would not leave the island. Go her to court! And his son, who
had been born almost? ... Don Horacio increasingly gaunt and weak, but always straight in the
eternal new frock coat, she continued the daily walk, setting up his life to the Town Hall clock.
Liberal old, big fan of Martinez de la Rosa for his verses and diplomatic elegance their ties,
wry face when reading newspapers and letters from her son. What would stop everything ...?

In the short period of the Republic became the father to the island, ending his career. "The Pope
Joan ', despite the relationship, pretended not to know. I was very busy at that time. Made trips
to the Peninsula turned, it was said, huge amounts for supporters Don Carlos, who supported the war
in Catalonia and the northern provinces. That does not speak Jaime Febrer, the old sailor! She was
a real sausage, a defender of tradition, and made sacrifices so that Spain was ruled by gentlemen. His
cousin was less than a Chueta: it was a "shirtless." And as people said, this hatred was linked
ideas bitterness for some disappointments from the past that he could not forget.

To restore the Bourbons, the "progressive", the palatal Amadeo became Republican and conspirator. He made
frequent trips; receiving coded letters from Paris, was going to Menorca visit the fleet anchored
in Mahon, and using friends of former officer, catechized to peers, preparing a revolt of the navy.
Put in these revolutionary companies the same old burning Febrer adventurous, daring quiet, until
suddenly died in Barcelona, ??out of his house.

The grandfather received the news with unmoved gravity, but have not see him at noon on Palma
neighboring streets awaiting their way to put the rice into the fire. Eighty six years and
had walked enough: for what he had to do! ... He retired in second floor, where only admitted
to his grandson. When relatives came to visit him, he preferred down the hall, despite its weakness,
properly dressed, with a new coat, the two triangles neck white hovering over the threads of the tie,
always clean-shaven, with Pin well combed and glossy toupee glue. The day came he could not
leave the bed, and his grandson saw him between the sheets, looking as usual, keeping the thin
cambric shirt, tie, that the servant was changing every day, and silk vest flowers. When he
announced the visit of his daughter, Don Horacio was a gesture of annoyance.

- Louie: the coat ... She is a lady, and we must receive it with decency.

Same

operation is repeated to reach the doctor or the few visitors who deigned to receive. Had to be
maintained until the last minute on weapons, or as he had seen all life.

One afternoon, a faint voice called his grandson, who was reading by a window in a travel book.
Could retire: he needed to be alone. Jaime went and grandfather could die with dignity in
solitude, without the torment of having to ensure the cleanliness of their gestures, and can be delivered
without witnesses grins and thrills of agony.

Febrer to be alone and her mother, the boy felt desire for freedom. He had filled his imagination
travel adventures and read in the library of his grandfather, and also of the achievements of
their ancestors held in the accounts of family. Navy wanted to be like his father and like most
of their grandparents. The mother resisted, with great extremes of shock that made pale cheeks and
blue lips. The only Febrer, subject to a dangerous existence and living away from her! ...
No, many heroes had the house. Should be master in the island, a gentleman of quiet life,
which would create a family to perpetuate the family name I was wearing.

Jaime

yielded to the entreaties of his mother, eternal sick that the slightest setback seemed put
in danger. Since marine does not want, look into another career. Needed do what other kids
his age who had tried in classrooms Institute. For the sixteen years he embarked for the Peninsula.
His mother wanted it to be lawyer, so he could unravel the fortunes of the family, with mortgage
collateral and stirred and loans.

His luggage was huge, a real home furnishings, and pocket carried it well stocked. A Febrer
could not live as a mere student. First he went to Valencia, believing the mother this population
less dangerous for youth. In another course went to Barcelona, ??and on was traveling from university
to university, depending on the mood of the professors, and benevolence with students. His career
did not advance much. Certain courses approved by a happy chance at the time of examination
or by the quiet courage with which he spoke of what he knew not. In others are stuck, unable
to move forward. The mother accepted as a good all explanations to return to Mallorca. She consoled him,
advising him not along their studies, and writhed against the injustice of the present times.
His implacable enemy "the High Priestess Juana "was right. These times were for men, they had
declared war, all sorts of injustices committed to keep them relegated.

Jaime enjoyed some popularity in corporations and cafés of Barcelona and Valencia where there
were games of chance. They called him "the Spaniard of ounces", because her mother had remitted
money in ounces of gold, which rolled with shocking reflection on the green tables. The prestige magnificence
of this money was tied its strange title of sausage, which made her smile in the Peninsula,
evoking in the imagination of many a kind of feudal authority, with sovereign rights on distant
islands.

Five years passed. Jaime was already a man, but had not yet reached half of its studies. His fellow
students from the island, returning during the summer, rejoiced at the coterie Borne of coffees
with the story of the adventures of Febrer in Barcelona. I saw the arm through the streets with
luxury striking women, people who frequent the timbas bravia kept big respects to 'Mallorcan
ounces "for his strength and courage. Had One night he grabbed a bully, raising his arms in
the air Athlete to throw out a window. And the peaceful Mallorcan, hearing this, smiled with
a local pride. It was a Febrer, Febrer real. The island produced as brave young men forever.

The
good Mrs. Purification, mother of James, was a serious disappointment
and a joy to maternal shocking to know that some female had reached
the island in pursuit of his son.

The included and apologized. A young man as handsome as his Jaime! ... But the girl in costume
ruffled manners and customs of the tranquil city of good families were outraged, Dona Purification dealt
with it, using intermediaries to give money and to discontinue the island.

In other scandal was higher rental. Jaime, who hunted in Son Febrer, had sex payesa with a young
and beautiful, and almost went to shotgun with a rustic boy that
intended.

His love countryside helped him pass the banishment of the summer. It was a legitimate Febrer
like his grandfather. The poor lady knew what to expect about that father always seriously and correct,
that chin stroking the young peasant girls with a coolness of Lord serious. Nearby are the
property of Febres were many young men who had their faces Don Horacio, but his Mexican wife,
poetic soul, he lived well beyond these platitudes, while the harp at the knees and squinting
Ossian poems recited. The rustic beauties rebocillo crisp, white sandals and loose strands
attracted the sleek and stately Febrer with irresistible force.

When Dona Purification long complained about the hunting trips he undertook his son the island,
he stayed in the city, spending the day in the garden for exercise
in the pistol.

Scary taught his mother a bag kept in the shade of an orange.

- Do you see this? ... It is a hundredweight of gunpowder. Until they
burn it does not break.

And Antonia feared Madò look out their kitchen windows, and the nuns who occupied part showed
the old palace a moment his white veil, hiding immediately as doves
frightened by the continuous shooting.

The garden is enclosed by crenellated walls bordering the sea wall, trembled with morning to
night under the din of the explosions. Frightened birds fled with flapping; climbed over the walls cracked
green lizard, hiding between layers of ivy cats trotted the avenues with a gallop of terror.
The trees were very old, respectable as the palace ancient orange, twisted trunk, they needed
the support of a pins to support fence venerable members; magnolieros giant, with more wood but
leaves, palm barren, going back into the blue sky above the sea looking
the battlements to greet him with plumed head swings.

The sun was cracking the bark of trees and forgotten to pop the flower seeds earth golden sparks
danced like insects buzzing in the bars of light that pierced foliage, fell with soft splash,
from time to time, peeling of ripe figs the branches sounded in the distance the murmur of the
sea, breaking rocks at the foot of the wall, and populated in this quiet murmurs still firing
pistols Febrer. It was already a master. When pointing to the puppet drawn on the wall, lamented
that it was not a man, a hated enemy who needed to be exterminated.

This bullet was the heart. Pum! And smiled with satisfaction to see the bullet hole marked in the same
place it had targeted.

The noise of the shots, the smoke of gunpowder, awakened in his mind warlike fantasies stories
of struggle and death for a hero who was always successful. Twenty years and had not been beaten yet!
... I needed a set to show proof of their courage. It was unfortunate had no enemies, but seek
one created when he returned to Spain. And to persist in these ravings of his imagination, excited
by the roar of explosions, feigned an affair of honor. His opponent you played the first shot
and he fell to the ground. Still had gun in hand, must defend itself,
should answer lay on the ground.

And to the great scandal his mother and Antonia Mado, who thought him crazy to look out, remained
lying on his face and fired in this position, trained "for when to smite him."

Upon returning to Spain in order to continue their endless studies, was strengthened for country
life, arrogant for his essays in the garden and eager to have the desired match the first one
to give him the slightest pretext. But being polite man, unable to unfair provocations, and
its appearance inspired respect to the insolent, time passed and
the set did not come.

Exuberant vitality, its driving force, consumíanse in dark adventures and stupid waste, of which the
island then spoke with admiration of peers studies.

Living in Barcelona, ??received a telegram announcing that his mother
was seriously ill. Took two days to sail: there was a ship ready to
sail.

When he reached the island, its mother had died. Of the ancient family had been in his childhood
there was nobody left. Only Antonia Madò could remember the past.

When the owner saw the fortunes of the Febrer and in full freedom, was twenty years. The fortune
that was gnawed by esplendideces of their ancestors and overwhelmed
with all kinds levies.

Febrer's house was large, as those vessels that ran aground and lost to always make the richness
of the coast where they are going to die. His remains and debris, which would looked down the
old, still represented a fortune.

Jaime did not want to think, would not know. Needed to live, see the world, and gave up his studies.
What do you care about the laws and customs and Roman ecclesiastical canons to pass a good
life? I knew enough.

In fact, the best and most enjoyable of his knowledge I owed it to his mother when he lived as
a child in the home, but have seen teachers. She had taught French and some in an old piano
keyboard instrument large yellow and red silk frontispiece almost reached the ceiling. Others
knew less he and gentlemen were so much happier. A live !....

Spent two years in Madrid. Lovers had given him some popularity, famous horses, uproar in Fornos
mezzanines, was a close friend of a famous bullfighter and played hard. Had a duel, but it was
a sword - not as he had imagined, lying on the ground, pistol in his right hand - and left the set
with a puncture in his arm, something like a stitch pin in elephant
skin.

Was no longer "the Spaniard of ounces." The gold tank rounds kept by his mother was extinguished,
but threw the tickets lavishly on the gaming tables, and when had been "bad" he wrote to his manager,
a lawyer son of a family of former mossons, Febrer-dependent for centuries.

Tired of Madrid, where it was considered almost a stranger. He lingered in the soul of Febrer
old, great travelers of all countries except Spain, it had always lived returned back to their
kings. Many of his grandfathers were family members of all major cities of the Mediterranean,
had visited the rulers of small states Italians had been received in audience by the Pope and the
Grand Turk, but never I happened to go to Madrid.

In addition, Febrer often irritated with his relatives in court, young
proud their titles, who smiled when mentioning his rare quality of
sausage.

And to think the family had left them to go to the relatives of several marquisates Peninsula,
preferring the supreme title of nobility island and enjoyment of the highest dignities knightly
of Malta! ...

He began to travel around Europe, taking up residence in autumn and
winter party in Paris the cold months in the Costa Azul, spring and
summer in London at Ostend, with several expeditions to Italy, Egypt
and Norway to see the midnight sun.

In this new existence was barely known. He lived as a traveler, insignificant globule of the net
circulating blood to the longing of the trip spans the continent. But this life of constant movement,
runs overwhelming and unexpected adventures, met atavistic instincts,
hobbies inherited from their remote ancestors, great guests of new
towns.

In addition, this wandering existence flattered his lust for everything extraordinary. In hotels Nice
phalansteries of global corruption and hypocritical right, had been graced in the darkness of
her room at the most unexpected visits.

In Egypt he had to flee decadent touch of a Hungarian countess, withered flower of elegance,
sunken eyes and violent perfume, revealing smooth and juveniles under glazes the meat rot.

While in Munich turned twenty-eight. He had gone just before a Bayreuth for a performance Wagner's
operas, and now in the Bavarian capital, attended the theater of the Residence which verified
the Mozart Festival. Jaime was not a music lover, but he forced his wandering life to go where
people went, and his status amateur pianist had made two years attending followed this musical pilgrimage.

In
the hotel who lived in Munich he met Miss Mary Gordon, whom he had
seen before Wagner in the theater.

English was a tall, thin, low and fine meats, a body gymnastics, which sport had the pleasant
content feminine curves, giving it youthful, healthy and beautiful boy asexual. The head was
the most beautiful thing: a head straw, with transparency of porcelain, rosy little nose playful
dog, wet blue eyes and blonde hair, white gold and gold surface in
the dark in depths. Her beauty was adorable and fragile, the British
beauty is lost thirty years under violet rubicundeces and granulations
of the skin.

In the restaurant had repeatedly Jaime surprised look
in his blue eyes, candid and quietly bold, fixed on him. A lady was
fat, flabby and flushed face, company a lady dressed in black with
a red straw hat and a belt as color break in two hemispheres his bulky
chest and belly