 Much
intensified the cold and began to pass in front of my cabinet a cristalejos white swabs were
dancing in the air, as if they resist staining with filth land. As if I had any doubts about the
nature of the symptoms that I Facia learned to realgar came very diligent and even smiling,
with the excuse of taking my hearth, which would be dying for 'embers' a bit, and I said as
he huddled to take him by the two handles:

- It nevandu, and there will be temporary EYU.

- And you - I said
wanting to hold his head in the ashes - as happy as a Easter because
of it.

But what breed of creature are you?

- Lord - suddenly drowning replied with a sob - all I know is that I am a woman very unhappy!

He left crying, and I stayed with remorse for having awakened in her that pain dryness of my
question. After I finished Amurri, watching from a quarter pound of laundry how they thicken the
flakes and disappearing all the mountains between the thick veils coming down from the sky.
Another time and another ambush in perspective as the last!

When he returned Facia with crackling hearth, my uncle came up behind her. Would talk me of the
snow that was on top. I was sorry, first, for me, finding again endless hours, God knows how
long, between the walls of the house because snowfall that came suddenly like that, and betrayal,
as it could be temporary durable, and secondly, why should he hide it? the cold seeped him more "flamenco"
what he thought the good spirits that had to resist ... But "bone, rogue like his old bone
was pure land, bad land is pure and softened and as desborregaba lumbraducas lacked the sun!
". Another thing: every year Snow pulled the ports corresponding portion of raw, and always
he saw snow for the first time each winter, he asked himself: what he will be playing this year
unhappy Luck? Because I never missed, a band or other who, by mistake, unfortunately or by
necessity, see caught and buried in the mountain by a snow cellerisca, and that he was not
bargained relief without fear of the examples of many who were there left with relief, wrapped
in a single shroud. Always distressed him these reflections, memories made about misfortunes
that stung to the quick, "but now Cuartajo!, Since I am what I am and I've seen the first
cloth falling snow! ... Na, man, ná, chocheces old apolillao to the core ... Well look what I come
with good songs for a time as this! ... Have you seen simple man your uncle Celso? Pispajo with
the hack of the demons! ".

The sad truth was that, despite the breaths he had become my uncle,
temporary raw slew him, and that the losses of his body is reflected
in the spirit for more who persisted in disguise.

As I spoke well and I answered him hanging around cabinet, stuck to the hearth as the old
bush at the crack of the rock, and kept alone to shovel heat a small thing that gave the ashes
to rest. Every time I arrived at the door of the sunshine, looking mechanically by one of its
panels, and saw how they thicken and piled flakes where the air deposited on the rail the
balcony, until one of my laps I noticed that large eddies are formed on garden, that volume grew
flakes, and, finally, beginning to "mop up" with such strength, emblanqueció in an instant the
little land that was visible from there, and went out the dim flashes of sunlight that had
two hours of struggling in vain with the thickness of Cloudy.

- Pure darkness - I heard my uncle from the hearth - and just over half late. Sorry for you, Marcelo
... and look, calls these convicted women to bring you a light and you loneliness is so sad
...

And in this desperately hit the ground with his Cachava, making me believe that the darkness
it saddened him more than me.

There was a candle on the dresser in his candle, and hurried it on a match of my Fosforera.

- Men's - continued to tell me, looking fixedly at how lit the flame
of the match the sickly pale and frozen candle - if I were you, would
build these prisons for read many tomes as you brought with you and
answer as many letters as you get ... Because Me do not have to take
care for nothing, for nothing, piece of junk!

In leaning against the lumbrona the kitchen, I have everything I need ... And if not, see it enough.

Thus
rose from his chair and began to walk the blessed of God, without giving me little time for
lighting the candle in the darkest of passages.

Read! Write!

The poor guy did not know that when a man gives way to find tedious of hours, can not engage in
anything that distracts, it needs all the time bored, as mandated
by a law of naughty human condition.

That night came a soul to the gathering, and face so sad as there
was in the kitchen of Facia, the incomprehensible and mysterious woman
gray.

My uncle and I, as we used to do often dined at the lazy: he corresponding portion of milk, food
only I had prescribed Neluco lately, invincible suit both your appetite and the nature of his
illness, and I condumios ordinary Tona and his mother, who had been doing my stomach grateful.

As
the night was so long and I knew what it looked like ending my poor uncle Part of it is intended
by the people who are healthy to rest in bed, I tried liest down to us as late as possible,
after supper the three servants and recogídose the vessel, and returned
all to get close to the fire and I tried, with little luck, get Tona
from the bondage of a drowsiness that was constantly pitching, and
their impassive Chisco suspect.

But my uncle, who all watched, he soon the voice of "let's go ', and rose from his chair, more
grateful than satisfied that as notorious as useless sacrifice everyone was doing for him.

Before going to bed I left the sunshine for a moment to see how was the night. Still snowing
and all I saw the sky black and white on the ground, without which disturb the serenity of that gloomy
picture of the other rumors that river, very rough with the tributes of the past sleet and I
was collecting the snow melted on contact with him.

I woke up very early the next day, and to satisfy a curiosity that was a lot of childish, I looked
out the balcony, well wrapped. It had stopped snowing but the sky was overcast "Colored donkey's
belly." I had seen snow in Madrid and Paris and St. Petersburg, ... much snow, but always on level
ground and between streets: that is, a canvas mat dirty on the street,
and white fleece blankets lying on the roofs in front; snow, finally,
theater, without the slightest resemblance to what I was watching
from the sunny side my uncle.

It seemed that the mountains of contour height had tripled, and the unit color all with the
roundness of forms that gave them the accumulation of snow its natural and sharp asperities, changed
into my eyes all the terms and all lines the picture that I was so well known. Was not the new one
detail that orient to rebuild that had been erased in a few hours. Woodlands, trails, creeks,
all had disappeared, or under the snow, or delusions without clear light-dark, sky, mountains, valleys
... was all the same, as a huge pool of refined salt or lime alive in the bottom of which was me.
Not a bird in the space, nor a living in the soil As covered in sight, and the continuous murmur,
like, monotonous, the invisible river, as if was the rattle of nature, died shivering, anemic
and bloated by the coldness.

I turned to the cabinet soon, very bad impression, and found in the relative warmth of the bedroom
a temporary remedy to bitter cold in the sunshine had penetrated as a bolt in my body and my spirit.

Lavoteándome
was still to search for this medium comforting reaction when he entered Facia believe tiptoed
still asleep, with the brazier had been removed from cabinet night, as usual, before I sleep.
Seeing me up, I looked forward, because I had to give me a story, not good. I thought it was
my uncle, and I was alarmed.

- It is not amu, thank God - I said in response to a question I did, which has Passau pretty
good night, and it is warming up in the kitchen ..

Probe is pepazo.

Ask him what had happened to pepazo, and he said he had not returned home from I had left it the
previous evening.

- But why take the way out? - I asked again.

- By the puertus - I said the grim woman sadly.

I shuddered remembering what my uncle told me about the taxes paid each year snow in the mountains.
Going into further explanation, I knew pepazo, when he saw the first flakes of falling snow,
went in search of his home mares, before noon grazing in a big hole, walked less than an hour from
the town, up the hill. Had seen himself. Mares are free to escape the strange condition of the
snow to the summits, the reverse of all domestic animals. It is said that they do so instinctive
aversion to captivity. Or may not be so, but is a constant fact that singular custom. For
pepazo have it well known, went in search of his mares whose whereabouts are known. Supposed
The uncouth animals, presuming that his master was play them, flee to the heights. Another
who pepazo, seeing this and thinking of the snow was coming over, because were very clear signals
it would let the devil take the mares and Vueltosa the people for the time being, but it was,
after short notice, very stubborn, nothing apprehensive and relied too much on the strength
of oak, and the bet on the fast animals if they were all about, and so, running after them in
Canada in Canada and hill to hill, to Maybe it would be in the dark of night and the roads cleared
by the snow. So that if fortune had not, as previously thought, falling into a winter covachona
or so, was a dead man at that hour, it must have been in the mountains closer than a yard
of snow. It was much that was mopped from the drop night!

I was displeased reasoned this sad outcome, and asked if he planned to do something in view
of him what I said Facia was already done what could be done.

As dawn broke had left the place, not all men who gave it, because they had been too, but those
who were chosen more on the subject for their toughness and experience: About a dozen of them
together. Asking her the names of those brave and charitable neighbors, the first cytoma Don
Sabas, who never missed those calls, it was considered necessary as any other business to attend
to the life of the rescued, and unique their parish to the business of the soul, if she and
unfortunately not enough time and for another thing, then appointed me to the doctor, who could not
at home as he knew was some neighbors in the plight of pepazo, then Chisco, one of the men
bolder, stronger and more knowledgeable for that breed of tasks, and after appointing others
were so I would not estimated, because they have been treated less, closed the account Pito
Salces, boy capable of the impossible, provided he could get his side who was prevented from
do a lot, and three dogs in good nose, one Canelo.

I found this company far more higher than mine of the day before, not only for quality the enemy,
but by the greatness of purpose, and asked the gray woman some reports
how to carry it out.

Iban the expedition provided primarily for "snowshoeing" tables with three holes each, which put
the anchors of the sandals. There was nothing like it to walk on snow without sinking your feet
or be formed pellets between the anchors. They also carried shovels, spades, ropes and other
tools to open step where I had not discovered, or send some help from up where I could not
down a man by his feet are not forget the brandy and some solid food dry clothes or if he had
at hand ... one bit of kit, since it was the doctor, because had to think of everything. In this
way would take the march to the "jewel" where he had pepazo gone to pick up the mares, and
then the course would take more come to believe that might take him, running after the animal
escaped. For one thing, he had almost assurance that the road had been one and some uphill. With
these precautions and good will of all, you could expect something ... but not much, if God
did not take the If your account. At any rate, could not do anything more than what had been
done in the smallness of human strength.

Facia also warned me that my uncle did not know a word of the event, and I highly recommend it
the need not come to know, inventing an excuse to explain any the absence of Chisco if the notice.
And that stayed.

When the gray woman left me alone in my room, I insisted stubbornly to consider its black side
of the generous enterprise undertaken by those dedicated tablanqueses,
and returned to out on the balcony.

Then it was not snowing, but I pressed the spirit to see the look grim and threats posed by
sky, and yet I felt some mortification of self- have not told me to be part of that intrepid
legion, as if there I been a real and continuing encumbrance on it! But if not accompanied physically,
not turned away a moment from my memory, and therefore, to look out the windows of my observatories
(And they were all clear of the house), each flake was going solo and reach undecided my eyes, I
was very concerned by courier believe a thousand and one billion of them. Fortunately the air
was calm, which would have made less formidable in the bush a intensification of the storm.

So matters continued until near noon. At that time came from the Northwest celajes a black, dirty,
stormy, I saw, almost at the same time the woods and ends projections of the mountains encircling
the valley on the opposite side, for the strength of a instant thrill
of their sheaths undressing of snow, which fell in cataracts, raising
the drop-white dust storms that swept the air and rough, and very
little while that of the lowest cloud and more distant and more black,
showed a mass in the form of inverted cone, and its peak is linked
with another rising from the earth.

Cast and the two cones, formed a huge column, which, while turning sharply on its axis, moving
toward the valley came and went to him and crossed out wide, playing near the ground with his
base and raising enormous capital above the highest peaks del Este. Rebramar Acompañábala a
sinister and eerie light that just let me see the havoc of their clash against the immovable obstacle
of the mountains, on which he burst into frayed black ribbons. What would become of the unhappy
wandering in the peaks and slopes? ...

Under the terrific weight of this idea, spent an hour, during which calm reigned in nature, but no news
arrived in the valley of the unfortunate expedition.

They called me to dinner, I sat down at the table and not eat, did not even know well the concerns
disguise they were the cause of it before my uncle not take his eyes off me, invented to reassure
a lie watermelon and darned bad, and I finally got out of the lazy,
leaving the poor guy convinced that my resignation was about to run
out in the presence of that temporary black.

I preferred to believe that to discover the truth left him lying so he called his food, and I
turned to my round, clear clear, for all the windows of the house.

Continued becalmed wind and it snowed very little, but he came round Chisco anywhere, not a news
than I expected with a forward who played in the fever.

He arrived mid-afternoon, dark, dark, gloomy and as fraught with horrors to all who contemplate with
eyes like those of my misgivings.

Or snowing or sale now, and there was a voice nor a footstep or a stroke, or the house or the people
born soul was heading for any path are visible.

All was silence and gloom and threats of a tremendous night for the unfortunate that walked alive and
wandering among the elements of the mountain.

My concerns and did not fit inside me, and I inside the house. I fit and conveniently sheltered
behind me, went down to the portal with many precautions to avoid noticing my uncle, and resolutely
embarked on the journey of the people, erase all the snow. I scree falling cost of more than four sacks,
but I live and soon. Not aspire me something else. At what door to knock? At first. I called.
Same fears there than mine and not a news story that is, no news. Internéme in place and knocked
on another door, which proved to be of the molehill. Good source for the information I was
looking for. Hallab family wandering around the house and the portal, without a word and stumbling
around with other, peering into the corners, looking around and listening to there, and turning
turning in and out. Her eyes like fists Tanasi of both mourn, and as saw me took the apron to
them, and such was his grief that seemed to cast the soul in each sob. Moreover, it was very
pretty. Worst fear me, asked her why she was crying, and I answered, among jipidos and tears,
if I seem few reasons.

- I can see - I said Toper coming in his defense - with the black cellerisca few jaz hours, and
what is in the monti not know EYU ...

Pepazo I remembered, but also Chisco. Which of the two Tanasi cry? Unable ask (although it had
been idle question), I tried to comfort her.

I failed suddenly, it was great to calm storm in one spell, but two or three I did, it were no more
than the swelling of the eyes and the occasional sigh eaten bad chest. Using the influence
he undoubtedly had reached me at this test on the mood of Tanasi, I felt like starting it hopes
the secret of his heart little that I set on it, but mine was keenly interested in other matters
too different, and I thought the commitment to a desecration. What mattered and preferences love
with the daughter of Toper, when pepazo Chisco and with all who had risen to the mountain with
the first search of the second, could not be more, at this hour, a bad lot of rigid bodies
wrapped in the shroud of snow? Arrastráronse to this aside all my ambitions, and harassment
of idle questions each and every one of the house. The only thing I got in clean and again
was the news as soon as the tornado passed noon, was out another expedition of brave, but no
more than "against eyus', 'against' were missing, ie, to meet him, or see if discerned from a
distance. You could not do anything, ignoring, as ignorant, its direction and fate in an afternoon
so short, so threatening and fearing a night like that is suspect. The fact is that there is
every reason to tremble and shake, I shuddered and trembled as I Don Sabas thinking in Neluco in
Chisco in Salces Pito ... Merciful God, what would them and to all who had accompanied him on
his denon company!