 

The cook did not allow criticism and protest. This miracle was undeniable. He had seen their
eyes when they were good, he had seen an old painting of the monastery Puig, and all appeared
in the table with the relief of the truth: the galley, the king, Peixoto and the Virgin at the
top giving the order.

The breeze lifted the skirt of the narrator, popping his abdomen split
into two hemispheres by the tightness of one button.

- Uncle Caragol,
which escapes! - Warned a mocking voice.

The holy man with the calm seraphic smile which looks beyond the pomp
and vanities of existence.

- Let: no longer flies.

And began the story of another miracle.

Ferragut assimilated these exaltations lightly cook his clothes at all times. Burning inside
a fire incessantly renewed. On foggy days up to the bridge with a smoking drinking glasses he
called calentets. Nothing better for men who were to to spend long hours outdoors in stationary
surveillance. It was coffee mixed with rum cane, but in unequal proportions,
with more alcohol than the black liquid.

Toni quickly drank all the vessels offered. The captain refused, demanding black coffee.

His sobriety was the old sailor, the sobriety of the father Ulysses, who mixed wine with water
in all its libations. The gods did not love the old sea spirits. Amphitrite and the Nereids only
accepted on their altars fruits of the earth, sacrifices pigeons, libations of milk. Perhaps
because of this the Mediterranean coast, following a concern hereditary drunkenness saw the lowest
of the recesses.

Those who were not really drunk sober avoided like the sailors of other seas, hiding the roughness
of the alcoholic beverage or coffee with sugar.

Caragol was drunk in charge of all the "warm" despised by the captain, others who are engaged himself
in the mystery of the kitchen.

On hot days tailored refresquets, and these "soft" were large vessels, half water, half sugar
cane on a thick bed of sugar mixture that fulminant posing without gradations, from the vulgar
an angelic serenity to drunkenness.

The master scolded him when he saw her eyes swollen and red.

I was going to go blind ... But he was not moved to the threat. Needed to hold his own way prosperity
of the ship. And this prosperity, the most interesting to him was able to abuse the oil and
sugarcane, without fear of recrimination at the time of the audit.
Grao Christ, which lasted forever War!

...

The third trip of South America to Europe came to finish the Mare Nostrum in Naples wheat and
hides where he landed. A collision at the entrance of the harbor with a ship-hospital Englishman
who went to the Dardanelles dented its stern, also breaking a fin of the propeller.

Toni roared with impatience to learn that they would have to stay
close to a month in forced immobility.

Italy had not yet intervened in the war, but his defensive precautions
monopolized all naval industries.

It was not possible before the repair. Ferragut cash figure for their business this waste of time.
We expect valuable freight in Marseilles and Barcelona. But trying to calm himself and placate his
mate, repeated many times:

- England will indemnify ... The English are generous.

And to numb his impatience, was moved to the ground.

Naples does not look like much when compared to other famous Italian
cities.

Its true beauty was the huge gulf between hills of orange and pine trees, with a second frame
of mountains, one of which extended over the eternal blue sky, its summit of volcanic vapors.

The
village was scarce in famous buildings.

The monarchs of Naples had been more than often foreigners residing far and ruled by proxy. The
best streets, palaces, monumental fountains, came from the Spanish viceroys. A sovereign source
mixed. Carlos III, Castilian Neapolitan by birth and heart, had the best of the city. His enthusiasm
constructor old neighborhoods still embellished with similar works which had risen to years
later in Spain to take his throne.

After admiring the statues in the Greek museums and the objects unearthed that revealed the intimate
life of the ancients, Ulises ran tortuous arteries and often bleak popular neighborhoods.

Were steep streets, forming landings, flanked by narrow houses and
towering.

All holes had balconies, and a railing at the front were stretched strings, buntings clothes of
different colors to dry. Fertility Neapolitan crowd was boiling these streets. Around the outdoor
kitchens crowded customers eating boiled macaroni feet or pieces of meat.

Advertised vendors hawking their wares with similar melodic ballads to, and down to meet him
balconies topped by castles strings. The haggling and shopping were from the bottom of the street-ditch
to the seventh floor. In contrast, herds of goats rose winding stairs with the agility of habit,
to be left empty the udder all plateaus.

Marinela springs attracted the captain for his "color" of the Mediterranean port. The unit Italian
had knocked down and rebuilt much, but still left standing several rows of houses, low ceiling,
pink or white façade, green doors and the floor under more advanced the top, serving to support
a gallery with wooden balustrades. Everything in them was not was
carpentry brick thick, equal to the work of the shipwrights.

Iron there was no land in these buildings they remembered the ship sailing. The pieces were as dark
cabin. Through the windows were large sea shells on the comfortable, paint pictures depicting hard
and childish frigates, multicolored shells brought from distant seas.

These homes were repeated in all ports of the Mediterranean, as if they were the work of the same
hand. Ferragut had seen a boy in the Grao of Valencia, and still found them in Barceloneta, in
the suburbs of Marseille, in the old Nice, on the island ports Western navies in the African coast
occupied by Maltese and Sicilian.

On the village aligned along the Marinela, the churches of Naples
domes protruding and towers with glazed tiles, green and yellow.

More than Christian churches roofs seemed auction of oriental baths.

Lazaron there was no longer barefoot and red cap, but the crowd - clad as all port workers - are
still crowded around the poster defaced that was a crime, a prodigious miracle or a specific,
listening in silence the story the narrator or the charlatan. The old popular reciters declaimed
with heroic gesticulations Tasso's epic octaves. Accompanied by harps and violins sounded the
last romance that Naples had become fashionable in the world. The positions of the scattered
ostricarios perfume dead organic wave.

Around them, the empty shells of oysters out against mud the rounds of his pearly lime.

Next to the former Captain of the Port - palace of Charles III, white and blue with an image of the
Immaculate Conception - the cars were crowded landing.

Ferragut the same thing was that years before, with their original hybrid shots. The rods were occupied
by an ox white, lustrous, with huge horns and wide, an animal similar to those contained in religious
ceremonies of the ancients. To his right was towing a horse, his left a big ass and lean. And this
triple and discordant coupling was repeated in all stationary cars
to ships along the docks or flipping their heavy wheels the slope
that leads to the upper town.

A few days later, the captain felt fatigued and bustle of Naples. In the cafes of Toledo Street and
the Gallery of Umberto I had to defend some boys troubling with low-cut vest, tie wing and felt a
little lopsided on the locks, proposed that quietly organized recreational events unheard of foreigners.

Pretty
had also seen the paintings and household objects unearthed from ancient cities. The secret cabinet
lewdness ended by irritating.

It seemed an inverted recess look so childish fantasies of sculpture and painting as a character
having the phallus Main ...

One morning I took the train, and then skirting the smoking mountain of Vesuvius, passing between
Pink villages surrounded by vineyards, dropped in a season: Pompeii.

Hotels and restaurants, in mournful solitude the guides came like a swarm of wasps suddenly awakened.
They lamented the war, which had cut the flow of travelers. He was perhaps the only one who was
coming in all day. "Lord, at any price !...» But the sailor continued. Always, remembering Pompeii,
had made the desire to return to see her alone, all alone, to receive a direct impression of ancient
life.

His first visit was seventeen years before, when I was piloting a glider Catalan anchored in the
port of Naples, using the cheap price of a Sunday. All had been confused in a group that pushed
and stepped on by listening to the guide more closely.

Leading the expedition was a young priest and elegant, a Roman Bishop Dress silk, and with
him two foreign ladies and goons that were planted on higher ground having their skirts lifted for
fear of some geckos that snaked among the ruins. Ferragut, with the humility of wonder, it was
always down, seeing all the means of his legs. "Ay! Twenty years
!...»

Then, when he heard of Pompeii, is checked in his memory an image overlay "Very beautiful, very
interesting." He saw the streets palaces, temples, but secondly, as a fund vanished, while highlighting
first-line four magnificent legs, a slender shafts human colonnade lined black silk that was
transparently the white meat.

The loneliness so often desired for his second visit he was met. The Dead City had no other noise than
the flutter of insects on the plants, who began to wear spring, and
reptiles running around invisible under layers of ivy.

At the Herculaneum Gate, the guardian of small museum Ferragut let alone consider the emptied
of secular bodies: several Pompeii plaster in the attitude of terror that death had surprised
them.

He did not leave the chair to bother with explanations; barely looked up from the day before him.
I absorbed the news of Rome, intrigues of German diplomats, the possibility that Italy entered the
war.

Then in the empty streets, the sailor stumbled with the same concern. Echoed their steps under
the sunlight with a sound equal to that of the hollow underground
tombs.

When stopped, the silence was reborn, "a silence of two thousand years", he thought Ferragut. Y
in the old silent voices sounded far with the violence of a bitter argument. Were guards and employees
of the excavations, which, deprived of work, gesticulating and insulted in their seats twenty centuries,
deeply alienated by the patriotic enthusiasm or the fear of the horrors of war.

Ferragut, with the plane in hand, went to these groups, no one should
rise to guide.

For two hours might believe a neighbor of the ancient Pompeii was left alone in the city on a holiday
dedicated to the gods countryside. His gaze went up the extreme end of the straight streets,
without running into people or things to be reminded modern times.

Pompeii seemed smaller in this solitude. It was a narrow crossing paths with high sidewalks paved
with polygonal blocks of lava blue. In the interstices formed fertility laces tight spring grass
dotted with flowers. Ancient carriages, the that there was not dust, had opened with deep wheel
ruts in the pavement. In all the moments he was a public fountain with a mask he had thrown
your mouth water.

Certain red signs advertising the walls were verified in the early elections of the current era:
mayor candidates or of diunviro recommending that voters Pompeii. Phallus wielded doors to ward
off the evil eye, others a couple of coiled snakes, symbol of family
life.

In the corners of the streets, a Latin line engraving the wall begging the passer to refrain
from dirty outbursts. Were still living in the walls stucco cartoons and puppets, designed
by Cesar urchins century.

The houses were built at the light on a floor which had happened the
tremors, until the arrival of the final catastrophe.

They only had brick or cement the ground floor. The others were of wood, and had been devoured
by the volcanic fire, leaving only stairs.

In this city, funny, friendly and easy life, more Greek than Roman, all lower floors plebeian houses
had been occupied by small shops. Were stores with the door the same size as the establishment:
caves square, equal to those of the Arab souks, that show to its
farthest corners of the buyer arrested in the street.

Many kept even your stone countertops and earthen jars. The buildings had no particular facade.
Its outer walls were smooth, unaffordable, with the odd lattice skylight and high, as in the palaces
of the East. The door was like a gate to escape; whole life was turned inward, flowing wealth and
magnificence to the yard central, adorned with pools, statues and flower beds.

The marble was rare. The columns, constructed of brick, were covered with stucco offered to
the paint surface. Pompeii was a city polychrome. All columns, red
or yellow, were capitals of different colors.

Predominated in the walls the black patent leather with red and amber, occupying its center a small
table, over often erotic. In the friezes and newts rode love between rustic and maritime emblems.

Tired
of your trip through the dead city, Ferragut sat on a stone bench between the ruins of a temple.
I looked at the plane put on their knees, sipping titles that had
been designated the most interesting buildings on account of a mosaic
or of a painting village of Diomede, home of Meleager, Adonis wounded,
the Labyrinth of the Faun Black Wall.

The street names were not less interesting: by the Baths, via of the Tombs, route of Plenty, Theaters
pathway.

The sound of footsteps roused her head to sea. Two women march preceded by a guide. They were
walking tall and strong. Had their faces veiled hat and a larger veil crossed behind his back,
sustained by the arms by way of a shawl.

Ferragut guessed a major difference in the ages of the two. The thickest covert was moving heaviness.
His step was alive, but rested on the floor with your feet some authority bulky widely shoes
with low heels. The younger, tall and slender walking small bounds, like a bird that only knows
how to fly, strutting on the steep heels.

The two watched with concern to this man who suddenly emerged from
the ruins.

Showed air worried and fearful of going to a prohibited place or meditate wrongdoing. His first
impulse was to retreat, but continued to guide his way unmoved, and eventually follow.

Ferragut smiled. I knew where they were going. The lane of the brothels was next. The Guardian
open a door, leaving after watching, with dramatic anxiety, as if set out its pleased to use
this for a tip.

And the two ladies were going to see some paintings fuzzy showing how there is nothing new
and original in this world: yellow figures and naked, the same at first glance, no other news
that the exaggerated bulge sex differential.

Half an hour later, Ulysses left his bench with tired eyes and severe immobility the ruins. In
the streets of the Spa again visited the house of the tragic poet, then Pansa admired, the largest and
most luxurious of the city.

This Pansa had undoubtedly been the most ostentatious bourgeois Pompeii. Your home occupied
an entire island. The xystos, garden attached to the house, had been replanted with vegetation
Greek cypresses and laurels among pictures of roses and violets.

By following the outer wall of the garden, Ferragut found the two
ladies.

Cotemplaban the flowers through the bars of a door. The younger English expressed his admiration by a
swaying his purple roses around the pedestal of an old faun.

Ulysses felt an irresistible desire to be bold and gallant. He wanted interest to the two foreign
theatrical tribute.

He felt the need to draw attention something dashing and daring Spanish waving to all far
from home.

With an agile climber masts, saved from a jump the garden wall. The two ladies gave a cry of
surprise, as if to witness something unprecedented.

This boldness appeared subvert the ideas of the oldest, accustomed to life in disciplined people
who respect hard all prohibitions. His first impulse was to escape, to avoid being complicated
in the bombing of the unknown. But a few footsteps stopped.

The most Young smiled, looking at the wall, and reappear on it Captain, almost clapped with enthusiasm,
as if to hold a risky kind of gymnastics.

The British navy believed them, and spoke their language to deliver both wearing pink in hand.
There were flowers and all, born in a land equal to the other lands,
but under the ancient walls, the vicinity of the stalls and the house
built tavern by Pansa time of the first Caesars, were given the same
interest as if they were roses two thousand years, miraculously preserved.

The

largest and most luxuriant gave it to her, and she accepted it, smiling, as something that belonged
without question. His partner, once the first impression of the gift, showed impatience to
get away from this stranger. "Thanks ... thank you! "and pushed the other, had not yet finished
his smile, the two abruptly walking away. A corner adorned with a
fountain hide them from the few steps.

When Odysseus, after a light lunch in the restaurant Diomedes, came
running to the station, the train was to depart.

He wanted to see Salerno, famous in the Middle Ages for their physicians and navigators, and
then the crumbling temples of Paestum. Going up in the first car who found the way, he seemed
to see the veils of the two women disappeared behind a door that closed.

In Salerno station returned to descry occupying a hired carriage that was lost in a nearby street.
Then in the rest of the afternoon, he met with them necessarily, by the attraction experienced
by travelers in a small town.

They met at the port, mortally threatened by the movable bar sand were in the gardens near the
sea, near the monument Pisicane, the romantic Duke St. John, a precursor
of Garibaldi, who died in his youth for the freedom of Italy.

The girl smiled to find. His companion went ahead, his eyes wandering, wanting ignore their
presence.

At night they saw shorter distance. They lived in the
same hotel, same accommodation to all the small ports with excellent
food and unclean rooms. Its tables were close, and Ferragut, after
a greeting coldly replied, he beheld the two ladies, who spoke little
and quietly, fearing to be heard by a neighbor.

On seeing the older
with the free face veil, suffered no disappointment. Your enemy maybe
in another time would have disturbed the peace of men, but could continue
hostile gestures with impunity and hosters: Captain did not think
so sad.

Should be more than forty years. Its abundant bore some fresh
meat, work on care and gymnastic exercises. Instead, his face, white
skin, transparent yellowish subcutaneous flood, which seemed formed
with waves saved.

On the old hair, a red hue, artificial curls piled
hiding baldness and gray hair. Her eyes, green, had the opacity of
bovine eyes calmly when were free of myopic glasses. But just these
crystals mounted in gold were interposed between it and the outside
world, the two took a sharp drop glaucous punch people and objects.
Sometimes scattered around a vacuum haughty, icy, similar to the circle
draw a sword.

The girl was less grim. Seemed to smile with the corners
of his eyes, while half Ferragut her back, thanking his admiration
moving and searching. She wore her hair in disarray, as a woman who
is not afraid of the indiscretions of her hair and let it emerge fuses
under his hat winding with all his rebellious nature