 

The joy of the King with this new no bounds, and as everything goes well when you're happy, he triumphed
over his enemies in war, killed by his own hand to three or four kings had made him do not
know what trick, devastated cities, made captive, and returned loaded loot and glory to the
beautiful capital of its monarchy.

This had happened in a few months, and thus to cross the King with great pomp in the city, between
the cheers and applause from the crowd and the clatter of bells, Queen was giving birth, and
bore with happiness and ease, despite the noise and agitation, but
were primiparous.

What would have appalling taste as SM when, on entering the royal chamber, the midwife more
the kingdom was introduced to a beautiful princess who was just born!

The King kissed her daughter and went full of joy, love and satisfaction, the room of Mrs.
Queen I was in bed so red, so fresh and pretty as a rose in May.

- My Wife! - Said the King, and his arms. But the King was so strong and it was so lively the
outpouring of affection, that without more or less accidentally drowned the Queen. So were the
screams, despair and call themselves animal itself, other eloquent samples of painful feeling.
But not so raised the Queen, who, though dead, was divine. A smile of ineffable joy would still
be hovering over his lips.

For They undoubtedly had flown the soul wrapped in a sigh of love and proud to have able to inspire
affection enough to produce that embrace. What a woman truly in love not envy the fate of
this Queen!

The King tried the much love he had, not only her life but after his
death.

Took a vow of perpetual chastity and widowhood, and who fulfilled. He ordered the poets compose
a funeral wreath, which still say it is in that realm as the most precious jewel national
literature. The court was three years of mourning. The mausoleum which was built to Only later
became the Queen of Caria a paltry imitation.

But since, as the saying goes, no matter if it lasts a hundred years,
the king, after a couple of them, shook his melancholy, and felt so
fortunate or more fortunate than before. Queen appeared to him in
dreams and told him he was enjoying God, and the Princess grew and
became developed it was a joy.

To meet the Princess was fifteen,
was, by her beauty, understanding and good treatment the admiration
of all who watched and wonder of all who heard. The King swore heir
the throne and later tried to marry her