 It was ten: the artist was sleeping. Al again at
noon, continued the heavy sleep. After lunch, another visit to receive better news. Were two: the
young gentleman was rising at that moment. And his father retired furious. But when he painted
this painter? ...

I had tried at first to win a popularity with the brush, consider this company easy. Being an artist
you put over your friends, no other American boys occupation to enjoy life, pouring money loudly
for all to learn your generosity. With serene audacity, was launched to paint pictures. He loved the beautiful
painting, "distinguished" elegant, a sweetish painting as a romance and only copy the shapes of
women. Had money and a good education, his father was behind him ready to help, why not had
to do what so many others who lacked the means? ... And set about smearing a canvas, giving the title
of "The Dance of the Hours: A good excuse to copy girls and select models. Drew with frantic
speed, filling the interior of the contours mass of color. So far so good. But then hesitated,
remaining inactive before the painting, finally cornering waiting for better times. The same
thing happened to try several studies of feminine heads. I could not finish anything, and this
was some despair. Then he resigned, as that tends fatigued before the obstacle and providential
expected to help to save it. The important thing was to be a painter ... although not pints.
This allowed him to make cards with high aesthetic excuses to women cheerful, inviting them to
his study. Lived by night. Don Marcelo, to make inquiries about the work of the artist, could
not contain his outrage. The two saw each morning the first hours of light: the father to jump
out of bed, the way of his son study for get between the sheets and not wake up until mid afternoon.

The
credulous Dona Luisa invented the most absurd explanations to defend his son. Who know! Maybe
he painted at night, using new procedures.

Men invent Now many pranks! ...

Desnoyers knew these works night: scandals in the restaurants of Montmartre,
and fights many fights.

He and his band, to the seven p.m. believed indispensable frac or the smoking, were like a party
of Indians setting up in Paris the violent behavior desert. The champagne was in them a wine
fight. Broke and paid, but their generosity were followed almost always a battle. No one was as
quick slap in July and the card early. His father accepted gestures of sadness the news of some friends
who imagined making it flatter his vanity chivalric tale of encounters in which his eldest son always
tearing the skin of the opponent. The painter knew more of fencing in his art. Was champion of several
weapons, boxed, and even had favorite hits paladins wander along the ramparts. "Useless and dangerous
as all the drones', protested the father. But I was beating in the back of his mind an irresistible
satisfaction, a pride animal, considering that is stunned formidable was his work.

For a moment he thought he had found means to take away from this existence. Relatives Berlin visited
the Desnoyers Villeblanche in his castle.

Karl von Hartrott appreciated superiority with a kindly rich collections and a bit crazy for
his brother. Were not wrong: recognizing certain cachet to the Paris house and castle. Could
be used to complete and give sheen to a title. But Germany! ... The comforts of home! ... Wanted
that his brother once admired how he lived and the noble friendships that embellished his opulence.
And both insisted in his letters, that made the trip Desnoyers. This change of environment could
be modified to July. Perhaps seeing their replication wake up on the diligence his cousins, all with
a career. In addition, the French believe in the corrupting influence Paris and the purity of
the patriarchal customs of Germany.

Four months were there. Desnoyers soon felt a desire to flee.

Each with theirs, I could not ever seen with these people. Very nice, sticky kindly and visible
desire to please, but continually stumbling irremediable lack touch, by a desire to make their
greatness. The characters of Hartrott friends were expressions of love to France: the compassionate
love that inspires a mischievous child and weak need of protection. And this is accompanied with
all sorts of inopportune memories of wars in which the French had been defeated. All of Germany,
a monument, a railway station, a mere object of high, giving rise to comparisons glorious: "In
France you do not have that." "Certainly, in America you have not seen anything similar. "Don
Marcelo left, tired of so much protection. His wife and daughter had refuse to accept that
the elegance of Berlin was superior to that of Paris. Chichi, in full sacrilegious audacity,
scandalized her cousins ??by declaring that he could not bear the oficialitos corseted waist and
immovable monocle, who bowed to the young with a stiff Automatic linking to their gallant a gesture
of superiority.

July, under the direction of his cousins, he fell into the environment
virtuoso of Berlin.

With more, 'the wise', had to tell. It was an unhappy, dedicated to his books, and considered
to the whole family with protective gesture. The other, second lieutenants or students Sword, showed
with pride the progress of joy Germanic. He knew it was a night restaurants imitation of Paris, but
much larger. Women that there had to be dozens here were hundreds. The scandalous drunkenness
was not an incident, but rather sought full will be indispensable to happiness. All great, brilliant,
phenomenal. The livers were enjoying themselves in platoons, the audience was drunk by companies,
the mercenary formed regiments. Experienced a feeling of disgust at the female subservient
and timid, accustomed to the coup, and eagerly seeking to recoup the big failures and disappointments
suffered in their trade. It was impossible to hold, like its cousins, with big laughs the disillusionment
of these women when their hours were lost without achieving anything but Drink plenty. In addition,
gross debauchery annoyed, loud, with advertising, a display of wealth. "This is not available
in Paris - said his companion, admiring the rooms huge, with hundreds of couples and thousands
of drinkers - no, not available in Paris. "is tired of such greatness beyond measure. He thought
going to a party hungry sailors, anxious to recoup a blow of all previous deprivations. And I
felt the same desire his father flee.

This trip turned Marcelo Desnoyers with a melancholy resignation. These people had much progress.
He was not a blind patriot, and acknowledged the obvious.

In a few years had transformed their country, their industry was powerful ... but resulted from
a deal irresistible. Everyone in your home, and hopefully will never happen neighbor's envy!
... But this last repelled immediately suspected he was optimistic businessman.

"They are going to be very rich - I thought -. Their issues go, and
being rich does not feel like quarrel.

The war with four madmen who dream impossible. "

The young Desnoyers renewed his Parisian existence, living always in the studio and performing from
time to time in the parental home. Dona Luisa began to speak of such a Argensola young Spanish
with great wisdom, recognizing that their advice could be very useful for your child. This
was not sure if the new partner was a friend, a teacher or a servant. Visitors suffered further questions.
The fans letters spoke of Argensola as a painter, painters only recognized him as a literary
superiority. He could never remember exactly where he had seen the first time. Age of those
who went to his study in winter afternoon, lured by the caress of the stove and red wines
to be concealed by the mother. Spanish thundered renewed liberally to the bottle and box of cigarettes
open on the table, talking about everything with authority. One night he was to sleep on a couch.
He had no fixed abode. And after that first night, went all in the study.

July ended up admiring as a reflection of his personality. I knew that Argensola Madrid came
in third class with twenty francs in his pocket for "violating to glory" in his own words! Seeing
as harshly as he painted it, using the same drawing childish and stupid, was tender. Only the
false artists, men "in office", the performers without thought, care about the color and other
ranciedades. Argensola was a psychological artist, a painter of souls. The disciple felt shock
and despair on hearing how easy it was to paint a soul. On a bloodless face, sharp chin like a
dagger, Spanish eyes traced almost to every ward round and struck him one stroke white point
of light ... the soul. Then, standing before the canvas, this soul classified with unfailing
eloquence, attributing all sorts of conflicts and crises. And such was his power of obsession,
that Julio saw what the other is imagined to have put in the eyes of roundness buhesca. The paint
also souls ... souls of women.

To be as easy this work of engendering psychic Argensola liked to chat lying on a couch or reading
the love of the stove while the friend and protector was outside. Another advantage this fondness
for reading to young Desnoyers, that would open a volume directly to the back pages or the
index, meaning "an idea" as he put it. Sometimes, in the classroom, he asked with aplomb to
an author what was his best book. And his smile implied smart guy who was a precaution to avoid
wasting time with the other volumes. Now you need not make these blunders. Argensola read by
him. When I guessed interested in one volume, immediate participation demanded: "Tell me the
argument. " And the "secretary" not only was the synthesis of plays and novels, but informing
him the "argument" of Schopenhauer or the "argument" of Nietzsche ... Then Dona Luisa almost
shed tears when they heard that visits her son dealing with the benevolence inspired by the rich:
"A little devil boy, but how well prepared !...»

In return for their lessons, Argensola received the same treatment as a Greek slave who taught
rhetoric to the young patricians of decadent Rome. In the middle of an explanation his master
and friend interrupted him:

- Make me a shirt tails. I guest this evening.

Other times, when the teacher felt a sense of animal welfare with
a book in hand beside the stove grunt, looking through the window
gray and rainy afternoon, suddenly appeared disciple

- Soon ... into
the street!

A woman is going to come.

And Argensola, with the gesture of a dog that shakes his wool, going
to continue reading uncomfortable in a nearby greasy spoon.

His influence declined from the peaks of intellectuality to intervene in the vulgarities of material
life. It was the mayor of the employer, the mediator between your money and those who forward to claim
cash in hand. "Money," he said curtly to the end of the month. And Desnoyers burst into complaints
and curses. Where was he out? The old era of regulatory hardness and did not tolerate the slightest
improvement over the next month. He was kept in solitary misery. Three thousand francs a month,
what could be done with this a decent person? ... Desiring to reduce, shaking the fence, directly
involved in the management of your home for Dona Louise could not make donations to the child. In
vain had been in contact with several loan sharks Paris, speaking of his property beyond the
ocean. These gentlemen had to hand youth the country and did not need to expose their capital in
the next world. Same failure with him when, with sudden displays of affection, wanted to convince
Don Marcelo that three thousand francs a month is a pittance.

The millionaire was roaring with indignation.

Three thousand francs a pittance! And the debts of the son she had to pay several times! ...

- When I was your age ...-- started saying.

But in July cut the conversation. Had often heard the story of his father. Ah, man greedy! What
gave no monthly income was more than the legacy of his grandfather ... And Argensola council,
ventured to claim the field. That land management confiding thought to Celedonio, the old foreman,
who was now a character in his country, and whom he derisively called "my uncle." Desnoyers
welcomed their rebellion coldly. "I think fair. Since you are of age.

"And then give the legacy, extreme vigilance in the household expenses, avoiding Dona Luisa around
money management. Thereafter, looked at his son as needed to beat an opponent, treated for his quick
appearances Avenue Victor Hugo with glacial courtesy as well as to a stranger.

A transient wealth for some time encouraged the study. Julio had increased spending, considered
rich. But the uncle of American letters dispelled these illusions. First, remittances exceeded
very little to the monthly amount you get from your father. Then declined at an alarming rate.
All the calamities of the earth seemed to have down together on the field, as Celedonio. The grasses
were scarce, sometimes from lack rain, others by the floods, and cattle were dying by hundreds. July
needed higher income, and the wily half-breed sent him what he asked, but as a simple loan
when booking the collection to settle scores. Despite such assistance, the young Desnoyers suffered
distress.

Circle now playing smart, thinking thereby compensate for its periodic shortages, and this served to disappear
faster than the amounts received American ... That a man as he saw troubled by the lack of a
few thousand francs! What he used to have a father with so many millions?

If creditors were shown threatening, resorted to "secretary." Was to see mamma immediately: he wanted
to avoid her tears and reproaches. And Argensola glided like a thief by the back stairs of
the mansion of the Avenue Victor Hugo. The location of their embassies was always the kitchen,
with great danger of the terrible Desnoyers get there in a their developments industrious man, surprising
the intruder. Doña Luisa was crying, touched by the dramatic words of the messenger. What could
I do! Was poorer than their servants; jewels, many jewels, but not a franc. Was Argensola who
proposed a solution worthy of experience. The good mother to save the Monte de Piedad taking
some of her jewelry. He knew the road. And the lady took the advice, but only gave him jewelry
medium value, suspecting that you would see more.

Late burst scruples made her at times in outright negative. Marcelo could know her, how horrible!
... But the Spanish considered demeaning out of there without taking anything, and to lack of
money, carried a basket of bottles Desnoyers rich cellar.

Every morning, Dona Luisa went to Saint-Honoree d'Eylau to pray for her son. Appreciated this church as
their own. It was a hospitable and familiar island in the ocean unexplored Paris. Discrete
crossed usual greetings to the faithful, people from the neighborhood of the various republics
of the New World. It seemed to be closer to God and the saints in the court to hear conversations
in your language. Moreover, it was after the manner of a hall through which passed the major events
of the South American colony. One day was a wedding, with flowers, orchestra and chants. With
her next Chichi, waving to people I know, after completing to the couple. Another day was the
funeral of a former president of Republic or any other Ultramarine character ending in Paris
his tormented existence. Poor president! Poor general! ... Dona Luisa remembered the dead. I
had seen in that church many times hearing his mass devoutly, was indignant that the bad language,
by way of prayer funeral shootings and memory were liquidated banks there in your country. A man
so good and so religious!

May God rest his soul! ... And looked out into the square with tender eyes of horsemen and
women on their way to Forest, luxury cars, radiant morning sun, all the cool childishness of the
first hour, recognizing it is very beautiful to live.

Her look of gratitude for what exists just by stroking the memorial
center square, all bristling with wings, as if to rid the soil.

Victor Hugo! ... It was enough I heard that name in your child's mouth, to contemplate the
statue with a family interest. All I knew was that the poet had died. That was almost safe.
But I imagined Living close friend of July, given the frequency with which he repeated his
name.

Oh, your son! ... All her thoughts, her conjectures, desires, converged on him and its irreducible
husband. Anxious that the two men were understood, ending a struggle that she was the only victim.
Would not God the miracle? ... As a patient changes sanatorium, to pursue health, left the church
in their street to attend the Spanish Chapel Avenue Friedland. This is still considered the most
from his people. Through of South America, clean and elegant, as if they had escaped from
a sheet of newspaper fashion, his eyes looked with admiration to other worst-dressed ladies,
plump, with Ermine theater and antique jewelry. To meet these ladies in the court, spoke with
loud voices and expressive gesticulations, vigorously cutting words. The rancher's daughter
dared to greet them, and have subscribed to all charities, and returned to see greeting felt
a satisfaction which made her momentarily forget their troubles. Were of those families who
admired his father without knowing why, came from what they called across the sea to "the motherland"
most excellent and very high for all the good Dona Chicha, and relatives
of kings.

I did not know whether to shake hands or bend a knee, as he vaguely heard it used in court. But suddenly
remembered their concerns and went on to direct their prayers to God. Oh, he thought of it!
Do not forget his estate for a long time! ...

It was the glory that was agreed to in July, in her arms of light.

Was suddenly with all the honors and rewards of celebrity. Fame cautiously surprised by tortuous
paths and ignored. Or painting of souls nor a full rugged existence of affairs provided expensive and
complicated mourning the young Desnoyers its popularity. The glory took him by the feet.

A new pleasure had come across the seas, to human happiness. The people were questioned in the
classroom with a mysterious tone of initiates seeking recognition: "Do you know tanger ?...»
Tango had taken over the world. It was a heroic anthem humanity suddenly focused their aspirations
in the harmonic swaying of the hips, measuring intelligence by the agility of the feet. An incoherent
and monotonous music of African-inspired, satisfying the artistic ideals of a society that needed
no more. The world was dancing ... dancing ... dancing. A dance of Cuba introduced black bear
jerky for the West Indies have won the whole earth in a few months, he turned his round, jumping
from one nation to victory ... same as the Marseillaise. Penetrated in ceremonial cuts, crumbling
traditions of modesty and etiquette, like a song of revolution: the revolution of frivolity.
The Pope had to become a teacher dance, recommending "furlana" against
the "tango", because the whole Christian world, without distinction
sects, was united in a common desire to shake your feet in a frenzy
as tireless as that of those possessed of the Middle Ages.

Julio Desnoyers, finding this dance in his teens, fully sovereign and triumphant Paris, turned
to her with the confidence that inspires an old lover.

Who would have announced as a student and frequented the dances most heinous of Buenos Aires,
guarded by Police, who was making the learning of glory ...

Five to seven, hundreds of eyes followed him with admiration in the halls of the Fields Elysees,
which cost five francs a cup of tea with the right to interfere in the sacred dance. "Has the line,"
said the ladies appreciate her body slim, of medium height and strong springs. And he, with his
coat bulging wrap waist and chest, the feet of women's smallness sheathed in patent leather
and white canes on high heels, dancing serious, thoughtful, quiet, as a full mathematical problem, while
the blue lights on the two dark curtains, tight and bright its forelock. The women solicited to
be presented to him, with the sweet hope of her friends envied seeing them in the arms of the
teacher. Invitations rained down on July. It opened before her most inaccessible classrooms.
Every afternoon acquired a dozen friends. The fashion had brought teachers from across the
sea, hoodlums in the suburbs of Buenos Aires, proud and confused to be acclaimed the same as a famous
tenor or a speaker.

But these dancers on a native vulgarity and that it did pay, triumphed
Julio Desnoyers.

The incidents of his previous life were discussed by women and gallant exploits of novelistic.

-
You're killing - said Argensola -. Dance too.

The glory of his new friend represented to him now. Its mellow readings before the were now
broken stove daily. Can not read more than one chapter. Man urged him famous with his orders
to march into the street. "A new lesson," said the parasite. And when alone, numerous visits,
all women, some questioners and aggressive, sometimes melancholic air of neglect, came to interrupt
him in his thoughtful entertainment. One of these was terrified with his insistence to the
inhabitants of the study. Was a North American, old problems, including thirty-two and fifty-nine
years, always with short skirts, which were gathered sitting indiscreet, as driven by a spring.
Desnoyers several dances and a visit to the rue de la Pompe accounted
for sacred rights it acquired, and pursued the master with the desperation
of a believer abandoned