 

Drank another glass, and its effect was so prodigious in the traditional soul of the Baron,
which immediately began to dance the footwork English on the table, without leave by Fray Diego
so many tears to shed.

- Hum!

I do not like this dance extranjis - said at last getting off a jump; - prefer raw dance. Come,
uncle Diego ...

And the strength, taking him by the hand, lifted the chair and began
to walk with him singing one of the long and monotonous chants of
the country.

Fray Diego felt rejuvenated. He remembered his time there in the village cress, when his uncle,
the priest he was grinding Areces to night clubs because they jumped
out the window to go to court the young women from neighboring villages.

-
Hey, Diego - suddenly stopping Baron said .-- Do not you think that
before going drink a drink for the soul of our ancestors?

Friar assented willingly, but the glasses lay broken on the floor and empty jars. The baron opened
a cupboard and took out new elements of spiritual life. This cup funeral inspired him most happy
idea, that of covering the head of the chaplain with his beret and
adorn him spout it, resting on a chair.

So back to the dance dresses, two figures doing really interesting.

Baron stumbled and fell.

- Rise, uncle Diego.

The monk took his hands again he had come loose and pulled hard up. But weight nobleman bowed
and rolled the two on the ground.

- Rise, uncle Diego!

- Rise, Uncle Frank!

Both were rolling by releasing barbaric laughter.

Baron finally managed to stand up. The Chaplain did the same after awhile. But his soul, a moment
illuminated by memories youth, suddenly fell again in the blood and
extermination.

He turned fiercely his friend.

- Whether we realize it at once, porra! Why you called me pot recently? Huh? Huh? Why?

- I'll explain soon, man - replied the Baron calmly, - but before you drink a glass by the congregation
of all Christians, whose visible head is the pope ... say, if you like.

The chaplain did not obstacle.

- Well, I have called dish - clucking
continued - because a dish, do you know? a pan used for the filling
of cooked potatoes.

That said, the Baron fell in a spasm of joy so violent that he almost
drowned. While Thus, the bulging eyes of his comrade looked at him
with an expression that seemed threatening they would jump from their
sockets and thrown on him at times grew as a lobster.

- And why cooked
potatoes? I have so many livers as you cheer! and have proven Orduña
in action and that of Unza, and something I have in my house six crosses.

-
You? Do you? - Said the gentleman could not quiet the laughter .--
You have never served to to the ranch to the squadron.

The Friar's
anger knew no bounds at this