 I do not want to love
me or pursuant to a moral duty, not out of consideration to laws enacted by men. I want to love
me for love, as I love her.

"This was impossible. My vanity misled me and that's why I married Beatrice ugly me and her beautiful;
old, and her young, poor, and she with all the instincts and inclinations
to the elegance, luxury and shine in the world.

"What was in me that would make me friendly to your eyes? A noble
heart? Any intelligence high?

What my work is aware of the nobility of my heart? Where there is an evident increase my intelligence?
I claim no reason these tops. I am a conceited fool.

"What man is, to be incapable that is, who does not find reason to
be pleased with himself?

The ugly is graceful, the coward, human and kind, the fool, full of candor and innocence; the effeminate,
worship, the brutal and uncompromising, spirited and loyal, the brash, frank, the low and flatterer,
kind and good. I also cheated me.

"Sometimes I glimpsed my mistake, and I was tormented by the suspicion of my unworthiness.
And it haunted me for the sake of myself, of contempt, for I feel it was worth less. I was tormented
because my eyes disappeared entirely reasonable and well founded
reason that Beatrice loved me.

"But I was blind.

My happiness depended so much love for Beatrice, who, Now for my criticism destroyed any basis
wicked that my love could support, closed I the eyes of my soul to not see that that love was
collapsing, was lost forever when I needed it to be eternal.

"From here my absurd, my unbelievable blindness, when I was usually
so suspicious and distrustful.

»All Madrid and certainly knows what he says.

I would ignore it, if a non-anonymous accusations had come to give birth to my understanding.

"It
was a disgrace. I was passing by a husband suffered and consented. And yet (humbles me my weakness),
I am sorry I have disappointed.

I would be happy to continue in deception and being the scorn of
the people so as not to lose faith in it, so to believe that she still
loves me.

"The telltale letter has made me see what I wanted to see, not realizing it was me who did
not wanted to see.

"Obviously my misfortune.

"I wanted, however, still deny it. I wanted to persuade me that the
letter was a libel. New evidence tell me not to.

"The inextricable
link that ties my existence with that of Beatrice is the religion
is not the laws. They followed the break I saw her guilty. The inextricable
link is of my love, guilt does not extinguish or drown.

»How do I
separate myself from it forever if my heart is with her forever?

"Nothing
I said. I have not given the slightest complaint. How to complain
without killing? How to kill love her so much?

"Any explanation to
her, every word about their lack would seem to me ugly. A dialogue
between both on this infamous case would be monstrous. It would be
better to kill her without speaking of reason I have to kill you.

"I
fled from home if you called me. She believes in that place. At home
I do not know what Had I made. Maybe some unworthy action. Maybe I
would have cried and complained as vile. Perhaps as the executioner
had been mistreated