 

A sharp cry was heard, and the air disappeared at once.

The lover (and up and hurt Muley, because it was one plaintive cry) came to receive Mary, alerted
by the barking of the dog, reaching the edge of the bridge at the same point the cruel catastrophe,
to suffer and the excruciating torment of seeing death before their eyes, not save the only solace
of his life, and the white of their desires, ending in a point and so unfortunately with all its
joys and hopes. Desperate, and watching his beloved away at that pit, reaching the gap, and also
furiously topples him, wanting to conclude where its existence had
really already lost their lives.

The soldier and the other servants came just to hear the murmur of the waters to swallow Members
of the unfortunate Don Lope.

The unfortunate Gerif, how long you kept the sky to witness such large life unhappiness, happened
to come when even lasted the first ongoing horror of Don Lope. The desperation of the miserable
old man, cheating on the love of Mary the memories of his past glory
and power of his family, giving horrific screams, tearing dresses
and tearing his beard, he expressed his intense pain, Muley without
remembering that, lifeless and bathed in their blood, rolled a few
feet of him.

As the cry of alarm, the whole village, Moors and Christians, young and old, men and women, ran to
the bridge, and fell all along the shore, what with lighted torches, what with ropes, what with
tables, and all willing to risk his life in exchange for saving the unhappy Mary. But all was
in vain: the next morning, well beaten on both sides, only miserable
mutt was found still holding in his mouth somewhere in the garment
Mary White.

The soldier, with tears in his eyes, picking at her breast this pledge
of pain was inquiring from stone to stone by the river, and asking
how many villagers found:

- Have you seen Mary?

At the end of the afternoon and into the drain for the Guadiana, a
miserable fisherman said last night, some time, heard the river to
some accents plaintive, quivering both of them, who had said the door
of his hut, fearing a prodigious appearance.

No more was heard of lovers. Moorish credulity, colorful and imaginative as the Greeks, who were delighted
represented by the caves that opened up the walls those depths, as rising or falling, still inaccessible,
gave this same mystery hand a thousand tales and superstitions, and
many claimed to have seen amongst those suspended pits.

Muley, more fortunate than his conqueror and Mary, healing from his wounds at the end, continued
in their projects of revolt and rebellion, if not performed by their
own hands, thanks the fear inspired by the Emperor Charles V, saw
them put into practice years later by her son, who was one of the
kings of the Alpujarras.

Gerif failed to reach or that sigh of Moorish freedom, nor the terrible
punishment in theirs was verified, as sad, thoughtful and Mary's name
on his lips, took little time in following the light of his eyes