 It is clear that this part has to touch the ear incalculable
superiority. This when seen by juxtaposition, you need to go on objects and even different parts of oneself,
whether to receive various impressions: This requires a long time for small numbers they are.
If the objects do not act by juxtaposition, but otherwise, still need more time for the succession,
and is much less variety. Compare this to slow the speed with which the ear perceives all sorts of
sounds in musical combinations, the endless inflections of the voice, the number of joints
different, the endless noise of all species without interruption feel and classify, and refer
to their corresponding objects.

The simultaneity of sensations so vast in the ear, is extremely low in touch: when exists in this,
it is only in relation to few objects, but in that it extends to many and different.

But what most victoriously decide the superiority of hearing about touch is the ease He gives us
to get in communication with the spirit of our fellow human beings through the word facility
resulting from the rapid succession that we have noted above. No doubt this spirit to spirit communication
can also be set by touch, words expressing the characters quite bulky to be distinguished, but
what immense difference between these prints and ear? Even if the habit and concentration of
all forces sensitive, potentially a facility provided walk the lines with his fingers, which
greatly exceeds what we see in the most skilled players of musical instruments, how can you
compare a similar speed with which gives us the ear? How much time will not be necessary for
some tables where you go writing a speech we hear in a few minutes? Also, to be heard, all men
have, the media, you just use the organs to the other is necessary to prepare the tables, and
some they can not be useful, but for an object, and can not serve simultaneously for two people,
when heard through a man communicates only a short time many of ideas to thousands of listeners.

CHAPTER
XII.

IF ONE COULD GIVE IDEA OF HAVING A SURFACE.

[64.] I have made palpable inferiority of touch with regard to the sight and hearing; and thus
have been felt the strangeness of you have been loved as a base point of all knowledge, based
in the certainty of the judgments to which the other senses lead us, and established by the sovereign
arbitrator to rule on appeal in the last questions that may be provided.

I have also said not true that only by touch can make the transition inside to the outside world,
or of the existence of sensations to the objects that the cause: for that to have fought over
the main reason, or rather the only one in which trying to cement this privilege, I have shown
the way in which this transition is with respect to all the senses, based on the nature and
sequence of the internal phenomena.

I tried that too and the only feeling that objetivábamos was the extension; and in all others,
there was only one causal relationship, that is, a certain link feeling or an internal phenomenon,
with an external object, but nothing to this trasladásemos similar to what we experienced at
that.

[65.] Concerning to the extension, there are two ways that are sure to inform us of it: touch
and vision; dispense for now, whether it is a real feeling that the extension have, or if an idea
of ??a different order, which results from the feeling. Intending discuss this point later, for now
I will confine myself to compare the view with the touch regarding to give the sensation of extension,
or if you like, to provide what is necessary in order to form idea
of ??it.

Since then check to see that the extension is under the domain of touch, and this recital extension
not only surface but also in volume. A sight not be denied the same power with respect to the
surface, it is impossible to do without at the same time be offered at least one plane. Unextended
point may not be painted on the retina, from when an object is painted has painted parts. Not
even by an effort of imagination unextended colors can conceive:
what is a color if there is no surface on which spreading?

[66.] Condillac has been so hard on the eyesight, which has refused to grant the ability to
perceive the extent or even in surface. As the philosopher is one of the that have contributed
most to the spread and entrenchment of an opinion so wrong, I will examine doctrine, and the reasons
therefor.

A simple reading of the chapters in the exposed, the eyes jump was not quite sure of the truth
of it, feeling upset by inexperience and reason.

The Treaty of sensations (f p., c. XI), which examines the ideas of a limited man the sense of sight,
sits distinguish the colors to our eyes, because they seem form a surface which they occupy
one hand, and then asks, "our statue judging that is at once colorful, would you feel to itself
as a kind of surface red? "It must be noted that according to Condillac, the statue limited to
one sense you would think the feeling itself, that is, would think that is smell, sound or taste,
according to were the nose, ear or palate, the senses that had in-Office, for which reason, if
the sensations of sight enter the area, the statue should believe
surface red.

Dispense with the accuracy of these comments, especially the main point which is the relationship of
sight to the surface.

[67.] According to Condillac, the statue would not believe a painted surface, that is, perceiving
color, would not perceive the surface. Let's talk at the same philosopher, for its sufficient
own words to condemn his opinion and uncertainty discover that the professed or the darkness
that she suffered. "The idea of ??the extension is the perception of many some other things outside,
this perception can not deny it to the statue, because he feels repeating itself off as many times
as there are colors that change, while it the flesh, you feel out of green: while it is green,
you feel out of the flesh; and so do the rest. "Anyone would think that according to these principles,
Condillac was to establish that the view gives an idea of ??the extension, because that makes us perceive
things, some outside the other, as according to the author, is precisely the idea of ??extension;
but on the contrary, Condillac, further away from the true path, is unfortunately lost, and to be
more at odds with the principles just settle, significantly alters the state of the question and
continues, "but to be distinct and accurate idea of ??a magnitude, you need to see how things
were perceived some other, are linked, are completed each other, and as all boards have limits
that circumscribe. "This, again, is to alter the state the question: for now is not a distinct and
accurate idea, but only a idea. The extent to which the hearing could improve the idea of ??extension,
this is a question different, but jumps to the eyes if the eye alone
can give us an idea of ??extension, the continued exercise of this
sense would go perfecting the same idea.

[68.] La statue, Condillac's opinion, could not feel limited to no limit because they would know
nothing outside itself, but do not just tell the author that the
statue you would think the different colors, these are one off from
others, and when serious one would feel out the other?

Is not there by chance with this one, not one but many limits?

This argument is not hiding at all to Condillac, after having asked if yo the statue surface
modified by a blue bordered with white, blue would think not over, says, "at first sight would
be inclined to think so, but the contrary opinion is much more plausible. "And why? "The statue
can not feel long for this area but as each one gives you the same modification, each should
produce the sensation of blue; but if it is modified in the same way by a foot of the surface by
an inch or a line can not be represented in this modification, a magnitude rather than another,
then does not represent any, then a sensation of color brings a sense of extension. " It is
easy to see that the same or Condillac supposed to be played, or not say anything conducive
to resolve the issue. According to him the statue is modified in the same way by a foot of a painted
surface by a line that, if by this he means that the two modifications are identical in every
respect, is the same as to prove, because this is precisely what is disputed, namely, whether the
different surfaces also produce sensation magnitude different, and if you mean, as he shows his
words, that the sensation as color, and only in color, is the same in his foot in a line, tells
the truth very true, but we are not useless. Undoubtedly, the sensation of blue, as blue is the
same in different sizes, and nobody thinks of denying it, but the question is not 're at it,
the remaining question is whether a same color, the sensation of sight is modified in different
ways, according the range of magnitudes where the painted surface is presented. Condillac denies it,
rather than from an uncertain and fluctuating, but I think this refusal is as baseless, which
can prove quite the opposite.

[69.] Condillac I wonder if there can be no surface color, if you can paint on retina unextended
object, if we can not even conceive of a color without extension,
none of this possible: then the vision is necessarily accompanied
by the extension.

[70.] Condillac extension gets the idea that some things are presented to us out of others;
This, he admits, is verified with the sensation of color, then the vision of what Colorado must
produce the idea of ??the extension. The evasion of Condillac, is extremely weak: tells us
that to get an idea of ??the extension is necessary to take the limits, but first took place
and proved by the same author's doctrine, that these limits are felt; and besides, is very
singular pretension of giving sight to give us the right idea an unlimited extension, and refuse to
produce idea of ??limit: as if the same thing see the extended, not
born the idea of ??limited, or other causes, the same limitation the
body, as if it were not feeling more inconceivable that the limited
unlimited.

But I would assume that the boundary is not felt, the unlimited extension
longer extension "?

Is it not rather the extension of excellence? Does the idea of ??endless space, being unlimited,
longer extension idea?

[71.] Put in front of the eyes two red circles, one of an inch in diameter, and another of a rod, irrespective
of any sense of touch is the effect produced in the retina will be
the same?

Obviously not: this is opposed to experience, reason is opposed founded the laws of reflection
of light and mathematical principles. If this impression is different the difference will be
felt, then the difference of the magnitudes can be appreciated.

But I suppose that ignoring the experience and reason, insists on the claim that any the feeling
of the two circles is the same: I am going to make palpable the surprise and even absurdity
of this opinion. Imagine that the two circles are colored red and finished by a blue line,
take the small circle and put a more confusing within their centers; wonder: does the eye see
the figure, not see the small circle within the larger? Is not see the blue line that completes
the circle of an inch in diameter, contained within the other blue
line that completes the circle of a rod? is clearly yes.

Now, feel extension, is it nothing but feel some parts out of others? feel the difference
magnitude is not feeling the greatest about the other and holding each other? is evident yes.
Then feel the magnitude of the eye, then feel the extension.

[72.] Still can be confirmed more and more the truth I'm showing. Experience teaches us, and when
this did not exist, reason would tell us that the visual field has a limit, according to the
distance at which we are the object. So when we set eyes on a wall of great extension, we
do not see any, but a part of it. Suppose that in a visual field is an object of a given quantity,
but not very full or surface covered by the eye, according to the system of Condillac, the vision
can not be different, provided the color is the same, which will result that the feeling will be
identical whether the object occupies a small part of the visual
field, whether it occupies almost everything.

Result also, that if the visual field is a great blank canvas for example a hundred yards square,
and the object is a blue canvas of a square yard, the feeling is the same as if the canvas
Blue was an inch or ninety yards square.

[73.] These arguments that at least on confused, they must be offered to Condillac, rendered
him speak with hesitation, and even contradictory. We have already been noted in the above passages,
but is still clearer in the following. "We need the term to express precisely the feeling he
has of the statue itself changed many colors at once, but at last she knows that there is in
many ways, is perceived somewhat like a red point beyond which there are others in which she returns
to find; and in this respect we can say that it feels long. "Before, we had said that the color
not it be extended to the statue, until instructed by the light touch, form eyes the habit
of referring the simple and unique feeling, to all points of the surface; Immediately afterwards, says
the opposite as we have seen, and it feels large statue: and the ideologue can not find another
way to avoid contradiction, but to warn the feeling of the extension would be vague, as it
would have no limits. This is a contradiction that it is palpable above where does this lack
of limits? if a visual field a hundred yards of white surface, are
assumed various shapes of different colors, green, flesh, the sight
perceive the limits of those figures, as is evident where it Condillac
has discovered that endlessness that speaks to us?

[74.] The observation that, although the sensation of color wrap the extension, not follow that produjese
us up because of that we do not draw from the sensations all ideas they contain, but only those
which we noted, although very real, does not lead to anything in the present instance, it is
not what we might draw from sensation, but what is in it, and if that Condillac Seats can
touch the remove the extension idea what right can deny this power
with respect to the view, assuming that the idea of ??extension is
contained in both sensations?

If I am not mistaken, there is here a tacit confession of the falsity of his opinion. The idea
of extension will be in the sense of sight, but we can not remove it, why? because is vague, but
then who takes the year, bringing the comparison and reflection,
make it accurate? The difficulty is to acquire one way or another,
the improvement is the work time