 

The tranquility of the old firm contagious to feel, he was able to defend all bread for their
children.

The old man, with so much solemnity as if it were a relic, took from behind the door gem house:
a piston gun that looked like a powerhouse, whose stock touched mothlike
devotedly.

The would charge him, he would understand better that friend. The shaking hands are rejuvenated.
There is powder! Quite a handful. A rope of straw pulled the plugs. Now serving coaching inn, five
or six Zorreras bulk pellets, shrapnel fine, and finally a taco well
beaten.

If the gun does not burst with indigestion that death would be mercy of God.

That night his wife said he felt that he expected turn to water, and the whole family believed
him going to bed early.

When he left, leaving it closed the cabin, he saw the starlight, under the fig tree the strong
old man engaged in putting the piston to a friend.

I would feel the last lesson, so that no Erras the coup. While pointing to the mouth of oven
and keep calm. When you bow down looking for the cat inside ... Fire! Was so simple that a
child could do it.

Sense, teacher's advice, he lay down between two beds of geraniums in the shade of the hut. The heavy
gun rested on the fence rods pointing straight at the mouth of the oven. I could not miss the
shot. Serenity and give the trigger in time. Farewell, my boy! To him liked those things, but
I had grandchildren, and also arranges these matters better one.

He walked away the old cautiously, like a man accustomed to haunt
the garden, waiting for a enemy in each lane.

Thought it was sat alone in the world, across the vast plain, shaken by the breeze, there was
nothing living that he and those who were to arrive. I hope not to come! Sounded the barrel
of the gun to shake of the band of reeds.

It was cold, it was fear. What old would say if you were there? His feet touched the shack,
and thinking that after that Pepeta mud wall and the little ones slept, no other defense than
their arms, and the they wanted to rob the poor man was fierce again.

Trilling space, as if far, far away, speaking from on high the voice
of a cantor.

Was Miguelete bell. Nine.

Could hear the screeching of a car rolling down a distant road. Barking dogs, howling fever transmitting
their poultry in pens, and rac-rac of frogs in the nearby canal interrupted by the splashes of frogs
and rats leaping from the edge of the reeds.

Sense to have the hours they were playing in the Miguelete. Was the only thing that made him
leave drowsiness and torpor in which he plunged the stillness of
waiting.

Eleven! Do not come yet? Would you have played God in the heart?

The frogs suddenly silent. Advanced by both dark path that sense we two dogs seemed enormous.
They stood: they were men who were advancing curved, almost knees.

- You are there - he murmured, and his jaw trembled.

The two men volvíanse everywhere, as if fearing a surprise.

They went to the bluff, by registering: then drew near the door of the hut, sticking the ear
to the keyhole, and in these maneuvers twice went close to sense, without that he could know
them. Iban wrapped in blankets, by low which poked shotguns.

This increased the value of sense. Are the same who killed Gafarró. Be killed to save life.

And
went into the oven. One of them leaned forward, putting his hands
in the mouth and placing pointed to the gun.

Magnificent shot. But what about the one that was free?

Poor sense to start to feel the pangs of fear felt in the forehead
with a cold sweat.

Killing one, was disarmed before the other.

If you let them go, finding nothing, take revenge burning his hut.

But that was stalking tired of the awkwardness of his companion and
went to help the looking for.

The two formed a dark mass obstructing the mouth of the oven.

This was the occasion.

Alma, Sento! Squeeze the trigger!

The thunder shook the entire garden, raising a storm of screams and barks. Sento saw an array of
sparks, burns to the face felt, the shotgun was and shook hands to
be convinced that they were whole.

Surely, the friend had burst.

He saw nothing in the oven would have fled, and when he would also escape, the door opened of
the cabin and went Pepeta in petticoats, with a candle. Had aroused the blunderbuss and driven
out by fear, fear for her husband who was away from home.

The red light of the lamp, with its haggard movements, reached the
mouth of the oven.

There were two men on the ground, one over another, crossed, confused, forming a single body,
as if an invisible nail unite them around the waist, soldiers with blood.

He had not missed the mark. The coup of the old gun had been twofold.

And when we feel and Pepeta, with frightened curiosity, lit the bodies
to see their sides, fell with exclamations of amazement.

Batiste was the uncle, the mayor, sheriff and Sigrid.

The garden was without authority, but quiet.

At sea

At two o'clock a knock at the door of the hut.

- Antonio! Antonio!

And Antonio jumped out of bed. It was his friend, fishing partner, warned him to be, to sea.

He had slept little that night. At eleven o'clock still chatting with Rufina, his poor wife, who
churned restlessly in bed talking business. They could not go worse. What a summer! In the former,
the tuna in the Mediterranean had run endless flocks. The day least two or three hundred were killed
arrobas, the money flowed like a God bless you and those like Antonio,
kept good conduct and made their nest egg, emancipated themselves
from the condition of simple sailors, buying a boat for fishing own.

The little harbor was full. A veritable fleet was occupied every night, not just space to move,
but with increasing lack boats had been fishing.

The networks will often drew algae or fish, trash fish from which
melts in the pan.

The tuna this year had taken another path, and no one could lift
one on his boat.

Rufina was appalled by this situation. There was no money at home, were in the oven and the
store, and Mr. Thomas, a retired master, owner of the people for
their beans, they were threatened continuously if not delivered some
of the fifty dollars with interest that had lent them for the termination
of that boat so slender and so sailer that consumed all their savings.

Antonio, as he dressed, woke up her son, a boy of nine years with
him in fishing and did the work of a man.

- See if you have more
luck today - the woman murmured from the bed -.

In the kitchen you will find the cot of the provisions ... Yesterday
did not want to confide in the store.

Oh, Lord!

And what trade as dog!

- Shut up, woman, bad is the sea, but God
will provide.

Just yesterday saw some a tuna that is loose, an old man who weighs
an estimated more than thirty arrobas.

Imagine if cogiéramos ... At least sixty dollars.

And the fisherman just fixed thinking about that dead fish, a lonely, separated from his herd,
returned by force of habit to the same waters last year.

Anton was already standing and ready to go with the severity and satisfaction is gained bread on the
age at which others play, to shoulder the provisions carrycot and
a hand the tank of the Rovelo, the favorite fish for tuna, the best
bait to attract them.

Father and son left the cabin and followed the beach to the fishing
pier.

The friend was waiting in the boat preparing to sail.

The fleet shifted in the darkness, waving his fence poles. They ran over it the black silhouettes of the
crew, broke the silence the sound of sticks falling on deck, the
creaking of the pulleys and ropes, and candles in the dark desplegábanse
like huge sheets.

The people near the water extended to its straight streets, bordered
with white houses where were housed for a while holidaymakers, families
from all those inside looking the sea.

Near the pier, an old house showing its windows and fired furnaces,
tracing trails of light on the restless waters.

It was the Casino. Antonio threw at him a look of hatred. How outdated
these people!

They would be risking the money ... If you had to get up early to make a living!

- Iza! Iza! That go far ahead.

The gossip and Antonyms pulled the strings, and slowly traced the
lateen sail, shivering to be bent by the wind.

The first boat crept softly on the calm surface of the bay, then rippled the water and began
to nod, were pointed out, in the open sea.

In front, the dark infinity, in which the stars twinkled, and everywhere
on black sea, boats and more boats as they went sliding on sharp ghosts
waves.

The friend looked at the skyline.

- Antonio, change the wind.

- I noticed.

- We'll have rough seas.

- I know, but in!

Let's get away from all these, which sweep the sea.

And the boat, instead of going after the other, which followed the
coast, continued to bow to sea.

Dawned. The sun, which cut huge red wafer, on the sea drew a triangle
fire and boiling water as if it reflected a fire.

Antonio grasped the helm, the mate stood by the mast and the little boy in the head scanning
the sea. The stern and gunwales of threads hanging hair dragged their baits in water. From time
to time and pull up a fish, which turned and shone like tin animated. But they were tiny pieces
... nothing.

And so the hours passed, the boat always on, as soon as lying down on the waves jumping up to
show their red bellies.

It was hot, and Anton ran down the hatch to drink the water barrel stuck in the narrow cove.

At
ten had lost sight of land, only saw the stern of the far from other
boats sails as white fish fins.

- But Antonio! - Said the friend -.

Are we going to Oran? When fishing does not occur, Hence it makes no deeper.

Antonio turned and started running the boat drifts, but to no land.

-
Today - said happily - take a bite.

My friend, comes the bassinet. And will be presented fishing whenever she wants.

For each a great crust and a raw onion, pounded his fists on the side.

The wind blew hard and the boat bobbing on the waves roughly long
and deep ripple.

- Pae! - Antonico shouted from the bow - a big fish,
big mu!

... A tuna!

They rolled over the stern onions and bread, and the two men asomáronse to the side.

Yes, it was a tuna, but huge, potbellied, powerful, almost dragging his black flower water
Velvet back, perhaps the lone spoke both fishermen.

Powerful fleet, but with a slight contraction of his strong tail,
moved from side to side of the boat and soon out of sight and reappeared
instantly.

Antonio flushed with emotion, and hastily threw Sea rig with a large
hook as a finger.

The waters are muddied and the boat was moved, as if someone with
colossal force Pulling stopping it in its place and trying to make
it capsize.

The deck was swaying as if they flee from under the feet of the crew, and the mast creaked pulse
of the fans candle. But suddenly the barrier gave way and the boat,
leaping, he resumed his march.

The rig, before rigid and tight, hung loose and fainted.

They pulled him and surfaced the hook, but broken, split in half, despite its size.

The friend shook his head sadly.

- Antonio, the animal can more than
us.

Let him go, and give thanks because he has broken the hook.

For a little more going in the background.

- Leave it? - Shouted the pattern -. A demon!

Do you know how much is this piece? It is not time for scruples or fears. He! He!

And by turning the boat returned to the sea where the encounter had taken place.

He put a new hook, a great hook, which skewered several Rovelo, and
without releasing the Helm took a sharp hook.

Light blow was to let go to that stupid and chunky beast as put at your fingertips!

The rig hanging from the stern almost straight.

The boat shuddered again, this time a terribly.

The tuna was well grasped and pulled the hook solid, stopping the
boat, making dancing wildly on the waves.

The water seemed to boil, rose to the surface foam and bubbles in
muddy swirl, which if depth development of a gigantic struggle, and
suddenly the boat, and seized by hidden hands, lay down, filling the
water to half cover.

Flip That broke down to the crew. Antonio, releasing the helm, was almost in the waves; but
heard a crack and the boat regained its normal position. He had broken the tackle, and the same
moment came the tuna with the side, almost at the water, raising
enormous foams with its powerful tail.

Ah, you thief! We finally put a shot! And anger, as if it were an implacable enemy, Antonio threw
several times with the gaff, sinking iron in that clammy skin.

The water is stained with blood and the animal sank a red swirl.

Antonio breathed at last. Good had escaped: all lasted a few seconds, but a little more, and
had gone to the bottom.

He looked at the wet deck and saw the mast my friend, grabbed him,
pale, but unalterable peace.

- I thought we were choking, Antonio.

So I swallowed water! Fucking animal! But good shots you've stirred. She will not take to stay
afloat.

- And the boy?

This is the father asked anxiously, anxiously, as if afraid the answer.

I

was not on deck. Antonio slid down the hatch, expecting to find in the Creek. It sank in water up
to the knee: the sea had flooded. But who thought this? He fumbled in the small, dark space,
without finding more than the barrel of water and gear parts.

He returned to the deck like a madman.

- The boy! The boy! ... My Anton!

The friend grimaced ruefully. Would not they were close to going overboard? Reckless by a blow,
he would have gone to the bottom like a bullet. But mate, even thought all this, said nothing.

Far
to the site where the boat had been close to capsizing, a black object
floating on the water.

- There he is!

And the father jumped into the water, swimming vigorously, while the companion slackened sail.

He
swam and swam, but its forces left him convinced that the object
was a rowing a wreck of his boat.

When the waves lifted up, pulled the body out to see farther.

Water everywhere.

Over the sea were just him, the boat approached and a black curve that had just emerged and horribly
contracted on a large bloodstain.

The tuna was dead ... Valiente thing he cared! The life of his only son, of Anton in exchange
of that beast! God! Was this way of earning a living?

He swam more than an hour, believing that each friction body of his son would arise under his legs,
imagining that the shadows of the waves were the child's body floating
between two stools.

There had been, there would have died with his son. The friend had to catch it and put in the
boat like a rebellious child.

- What we do, Anthony?

He did not answer.

- Do not take it well, man. Are things in life. The dead boy that killed all our relatives,
where we die. All a matter of sooner or later ... But now, what we are, to think that we are poor.

And
preparing two nooses tuna seized the body and took him to tow the
boat with blood staining the foam of the wake.

The wind favored them, but the boat was flooded, was sailing badly, and the two men, sailors Above
all, forget the disaster, and the scoops in hand, worshiped the inside
the creek, throwing shovels of water into the sea.

So the hours passed.

That tough task brutalized Antonio, prevented him from thinking, but tears were rolling their
eyes and more tears, which, mixing with water from the creek, fell in the sea over the grave
of the child.

The boat was sailing with increasing speed, feeling emptied their bowels.

The small port was in sight, with its masses of white houses by the golden afternoon sun.
The sight of land awoke in pain and Antonio numb horror.

- What
will my wife? What will my Rufina? - Groaned the unhappy.

And all
men trembling as energetic and daring, which at home are slaves of
the family.

Glided over the sea like a caress cheerful rhythm of
waltz. The land breeze greeted the boat with live and lively melodies.
It was the music played on the promenade, opposite the Casino. Below
the flattened palm parade, like beads on a string of colors, the umbrellas
of silk, straw hats, clear and colorful costumes of all people summer.

The
children, dressed in white and pink, leaping and running after their
toys, or were gay Outcry as color wheels turning.

In the spring thronged
the office: his eyes, accustomed to the vastness of the sea, had recognized
what was towing the boat. But Anthony only looked at the end of the
pier, a tall, bald and blackened, standing on a rock, whose skirts
swirled the wind.

They arrived at the pier. What cheer! Everyone
wanted to see up close the huge animal. Fishermen, from their boats,
threw envious glances, the rascals, nude-colored brick echábanse water
to touch the huge tail.

Rufina was opened through the crowd, reaching
her husband, who with his head down and stupid expression I heard
the congratulations of friends.

- And the boy? Where's the boy?

The
poor man still more his head down. The sunk between his shoulders,
as if to make disappear, refusing to hear, not see anything.

- But
Where is Anton?

And Rufina, with shining eyes, as if to devour her
husband, she held on to the front, rudely shaking that big man. But
soon release him, and lifting the arms, burst into terrible scream.

-
Oh, Lord ... He is dead! My Anton has drowned! Is in the sea!

- Yes,
women - the husband slowly said awkwardly, mumbling, as if you drown
the tears -. We are very unfortunate. The boy is dead, is where his
grandfather, where I will be any day. Eat sea and the sea has to swallow
... What a relief! Not everyone is born for bishops.

But his wife
did not hear him. Was on the ground, shaken by a nervous breakdown,
and rolled kicking, showing her thin and roasted animal nakedness
of work, while pulling by the hair, scratching his face.

- My son!
... My Anton! ...

The neighboring district of fishermen flocked to
it. They knew what it meant: nearly all had gone through the same
perils. They lifted her up, holding it with his powerful arms, and
marched towards his house.

Some fishermen took a glass of wine to
Antonio, who never ceased to mourn. Meanwhile, compadre, dominated
by the brutal selfishness of life, with buyers haggled fiercely fish
that wanted to purchase a beautiful piece.

The afternoon. The waters,
waving gently, taking gold reflections.

At intervals sounded farther
and farther away the desperate cry of the poor woman, disheveled and
crazy, jostled her friends home.

- Anton! My son!

And under the
palm trees were still parading the colorful costumes, happy, smiling
faces, a world that had not felt the misfortune to spend with him,
who had launched a look at the drama of poverty, and the elegant waltz,
rhythmic and voluptuous, anthem cheerful madness, harmonious glided
over the water, stroking his breath the eternal beauty the sea.

Man
overboard!

As the night, left the lute Torrevieja San Rafael, with
a cargo of salt to Gibraltar.

The cove was packed, and on deck amontonábanse
sacks, forming a mountain around the mainmast. To move from stem to
stern, the crew were on the edges, holding with dangerous balance.

The
night was good summer night with stars in bulk and a cool breeze,
somewhat irregular, that as soon swelled the great lateen sail up
the mast to moan as ceased to blow, falling faint the vast canvas
with loud flapping.

The crew, five men and a boy, had dinner after
the exit maneuver, and once slicing the steaming cauldron, which sank
the fishing fraternity from crust to the pattern to the boy disappeared
down the hatch all off duty, to stand on the hard mattress, their
bellies swollen with wine and watermelon juice.

It was at the helm
Uncle Sparks, a toothless shark that growls eagerly welcomed the latest
indications of the pattern, and with him his protege Juanillo, a rookie
who did San Rafael in his first trip, and I was very grateful to the
old man through whom he entered in the crew, killing your hunger,
it was not little.

The wretched lute antojábasele the boy a ship
Admiral, a happy ship, sailing sea ??of ??plenty. Dinner that night
was the first dinner he had made serious in your life.

Had reached
nineteen years, hungry and almost naked as a savage, sleeping the
crooked hut where her grandmother wailed and prayed, still by rheumatism:
day helped to launch the boats unloading fish baskets, or pest was
in boats chasing tuna and sardines, to take home a handful of tiny
fish. But now, thanks to Uncle Sparks, who was law for having known
his father, he was a sailor, was in way if anything, could rightly
put his arm into the cauldron, and even wore shoes, the first of his
life, superb pieces able to navigate as a frigate, which plunged in
an ecstasy of worship. And yet they say that if the sea! ... Come
on, man