 Then he began to look with eagerness
approaching half again Raymond. He thought about writing asking for forgiveness of your visit and
harsh words, but it was too late for that. Then imagine that perhaps among his friends particularly
among journalists, had some who knew him and by which he could send a message of care. Rejected
it as dangerous. He even went through your head make sign to come down and give an explanation
of word, but do not dare. Was too humiliating.

The accident came to his assistance in resolving the matter at his pleasure, when least expected.
One night they met at the Comedy Theatre. Raymond, who spent the year of mourning I used to go
from time to time, was with her sister in the seats. She was in a box under against them. They
greeted each other warmly, and for a long time there was between the young and beautiful lady a shooting
glances and smiles that caught the attention of extremely Aurelia.

- But what is this?

Have you spoken to this lady?

- No.

- So what does such a smile? You seem like close friends.

- I do not know - said the young man a little confusing -.

Appears very affectionate with me. May suppose I was offended when
he went to home and want atonement.

In the first interval Aurelia received a beautiful bouquet of camellias brought a florist.

-
On behalf of the lady who is in the box number eleven.

The girl looked up and saw me looking at her smiling Clementina.

The two brothers were the thanks to strong head. Aurelia was very red.

- Do not you think - said his brother - I rise to thank the lady?

It was natural. Raimundo, when the curtain fell for the second time, left alone briefly and ascended
the stage of the lady.

A happy smile lit up the face of it to see the young at the door. He was received as an old friend
told to sit at his side drew with he quiet conversation, leaving completely abandoned his companion
forced Pascuala. Fortunately for this not long in coming Bonifacio, who never took no chair
when the family knew Osorio was in a theater box.

- I welcome you
keep me not grudge - quietly told him a long look insinuating -.

You do well. That proves that you have heart and talent. Le I confess with all candor that I
was wrong from medium to medium in the assessment of their behavior and himself. It's so true
than when I left home I would gladly become to ask you for forgiveness .... If not in words, eyes
and gestures you should understand I have asked that after many times ....

He still got another three or four passes over, true teacher, who arranged Raimundo head the
poor, that is, left him immobile, confused, fascinated, as she wanted, in short. At the same
time those skills explained a bit of sympathy alien whose memory was ashamed.

Without giving him time to recover interest he asked his sister, for their lives, their butterflies.
Raimundo answered their questions with more than enough brevity, not cold, but for their lack
of world. But she was not disconcerted. Still loving increasingly wrapping in a network of small
words and tender looks flattering. The more embedded and can even be said was excited regained
his youthful admirer, here shown in the hall Pepe Castro on the seats, properly dressed in
tails, the tips of his mustache stickers, fine needles, loops of hair coquettishly glued to
his temples, the air loose manly, dismissive. He poured his fascinating look first, Olympic,
for the seats, leaving trembling and subjugated all the marriageable girls that roamed around scattered,
then with serene start as the flight of an eagle, Alzola to stage
eleven.

Could not suppress a movement of surprise. Clementina Who spoke so intimately? I did not know
that young. He led his tiny twins.

Nothing, he had ever seen. Clementina, who warned the surprise of her lover, after responding to
the greeting redoubled his kindness Raimundo, turning entirely to him, bringing her face to
speak, making a thousand goodies aimed at drawing the attention of the noble savage and worry.
I felt a joy evil in it. Castro had come to be indifferent. He directed it for a long time the
Raimundo twins in a flippant and even provocative.

Our young man paid some looks innocent curiosity, because I had the
honor of knowing the terror of husbands.

Realizing that his sister would be impatient, even from the stage
not lost sight rose from his chair to leave.

- We'll be friends right?
- Said the beautiful lady holding him by the hand -.

Many memories his little sister.

I need to produce a feeling of this sudden and strange visit, and the give. Tell it to one
of these days I'll be surprised in the midst of housework .... You interest me very much,
so young brother and sister living alone .... Goodbye, Alcazar: I
said.

When the box got a bit dizzy and sat back down next to Aurelia, said this:

- How beautiful is this woman! ... But I still believe it does not look like mom.

Raymond, who did not remember at the time of such like, he felt a slight shudder and stammered:

-
Well, I find a certain air ....

Now it was just air. The boy began to feel remorse. The impression Clementina caused him was
not very respectful devotion before being locked in singular way with her knowledge.

Pepe Castro, so I saw in the seats, and began staring at him with no doubt trying analyzed. Since
that boy blonde did not belong to the high society he frequented,
pas칩sele by the imagination (because they had imagination and all),
which could well be the same tracker who had complained both formerly
Clementine.

As Naturally, this suspicion is excited him more sympathetically at him. Raymond was so attentive
to contemplate the box of Madame de Osorio, who did not notice the
provocative insistence Tenorio.

This, tired at last, rose to greet his beloved. He sat beside her, in the same position that
a moment before had been Raimundo, who saw him in this way felt strange
uneasiness, a vague sadness did not try to define.

However, it noted that lady was very cheerful and gallant gentleman seriously, and that she
could not wait to take frequent glances to the seats, which put the other sulking increasingly and
gloomy.

- Have you noticed how you look at that lady? - Aurelia asked his brother -. It seems as if liked.

-
What nonsense! he said blushing -. What a good boy to me! If the gentleman next to it now ....

Aurelia
protested laughing. No, his brother was better looking than that soldier chrome rosettes on
the cheeks as the dancers.

When he finished the performance, Ray could see, not without some feeling of jealousy, Clementina
waiting in the lobby your Land in the company of the same gentleman. Saluted it With such affection,
that Castro, increasingly restless, again addressed a long and intense look analysis.

On the space of a few days the young entomologist Clementina waited anxiously tarried at the door
of his house and go up to the promise. Their hopes were dashed. The lady was crossing as always
with live pasito often affectionately greeted him first and from the corner back to make the proverbial
good-bye. Each time you saved the door Rayford's heart shrank, it became a bad mood. "Wow, you've
forgotten, he said to himself: I will say no more with it, as happened not join us again somewhere.
"He began to help the chance to attend more frequently to the theater
Comedy, but could not see it.

The Royal Theatre, where surely was, did not dare go for fear that
he thought that lasted even persecution.

Why he had gotten into who was to head up into his house precisely
at that hour and not another, we can not explain.

What I do claim is that they were immense astonishment and embarrassment
when one morning Clementina was allowed to enter the house.

Asked the lady of course. Aurelia was in the room and passed word to his brother immediately.
When he appeared, the lady was installed on the sofa talking to disengage from a friend who
had them the day before visited.

- Be it known that this visit is not for you - he said smiling and holding out his gloved hand.

-
I would dare to imagine, madame - "he said timidly squeezing.

- Just in case!

I do not believe you fool, but women must always live prevented.

In the ease and joked that it took some warn could be affected. His voice was slightly altered. About
this pale eyes had always complained of emotion that overwhelms the
spirit.

The visit was short, but she had time to flatter the girl with a lot of sensitive words, with
effusive pledges. He made her promise to go to see it someday. If society did not like, it was
afternoon and babble for a while soloists.

Home and teach him some work. The orphans and the youth of Aurelia impressed. Since she had
said to resemble his mother a bit, as Raymond said it was believed with some claim to her affection.

-
Nothing, when you get bored here alone, are you coming to my house which is nearby, and we bored
together, it is always easier.

Aurelia poor, confused by this kindness and worldly conversation,
did nothing but smile.

When he rose to leave, said:

- It is your responsibility, Alcazar, to remind Aurelia his word. As you can do what you want.
The wise do not dare to insist because it bothers them at least thought ....

Having fully recovered his composure he spoke in a friendly tone, protector, a little maternal. Still
on the stairs for a moment entertained them with his brash talk and suggestive at once and he reiterated
with grace all its offerings. Raymond would not permit accompany her. It was only leaving a scented
trail sucked it with more pleasure than his sister.

Aurelia because then they closed the door remained silent. In the words of praise Rayford was
taxed to the lady warmly, nodded in a laconic tone that put out the fires.

It must be confessed. The first impression of filial adoration inspired young Clementina entomologist
had been fading slowly or, rather, confused with another tilt less holy, but keeping something
from her. Like all men away treatment of women, dedicated exclusively to the study, the view of
sex and recognition of the divine law of love was alive and intense.

The day after the visit of Clementina Aurelia wanted and the pay, saying of course that desire
timidly and with words muffled. But his sister showed him the desirability of waiting for some
time and he resigned. At the end of the visit. Aurelia spent an afternoon in the boudoir of
Madame de Osorio. Raymond, after much hesitation, he did not dare to go with it.

After three or four days came back home Clementina youth to invite them to go at night to the
Real. It was a real trouble for them. Rayford had no tails, Aurelia also did not have a very
fitted wardrobe. However, they were. A relative gave the young his coat: Aurelia was the best
rags of the closet. The next day Raymond was responsible a dress suit in the best tailoring
in Madrid. Not only did this, but also without informing his sister, went to the Royal Theatre's
accounting and took a seat near manure Osorio of the pit, in the same turn.

The intimacy between them grew quickly, thanks to the efforts of Raymond. Because his sister,
but also praised the kindness of his new friend, oppose silent and passive resistance to attend
their treatment. For more than made could not erase from his mind the strange way starting this
friendship, nor could he hide the false bottom in it existed.

Knowing Raimundo tried to dispel their apprehensions desire, sometimes directly, other indirectly.
Aurelia was rather an ugly girl pretty, as we have said, good sense and honest heart. The adoration
he had for Ray, instilled by his late mother, did not prevent the parties know their character
thin, weak, impressionable with excess and childish. Actually in this respect it represents
the male element and the female he indoors.

He cried very easily, she hardly. He felt strange apprehensions, fainting, hallucinations
sometimes true, she had the nervous system perfectly balanced.

Was sound and solid, he, sickly and straight. In the months following death of the mother, Raymond,
taking heart of grace with the idea to protect your sister, had been more resolute and manly.
In time he recovered temperament their rights, fell back into their hobbies childish, as women's
impressionability, while she grew up discovering a sound temperament, balanced and straight.

It
did not take much work to bring Clementina, fascinate all the young naturalist. Sometimes going
to your hotel boys, others she was going home from the kids or taking them get to the theater
or walk, they were most of the day.

Pepe Castro, the first Raimundo night found in the room Osorio understood perfectly what was
happening, and filled with despair.

- At this very great ... now gives babies - muttered, grinding his teeth -. All conclude losses
for these extravagances.

He thought the young and cause head. He soon persuaded that this step would be to disaster. What
would it gain? Clementina absolutely nothing because you detest. The scandal would reveal their
defeat, the more shameful as the winner a little boy was absolutely unknown. Determin칩se therefore
wise not to give his arm to turn to the world and away from his beloved temporarily, allowing
her to gratify whim. Maybe later, tired of tease with that lamb, the lamb again the fold.

Raymond was not supposed child as Castro, as counted twenty-three years old, but had a child and
delicate figure did not let him appear more than eighteen.

Your health was hesitant and brittle. He suffered frequent attacks, particularly since the death
of his mother, they sometimes lose sight, other speech, with another variety of strange phenomena
which fortunately lasted a short time. You saw seized with deep melancholy, crisis violent ending
for a hearty and prolonged crying in hysterical women horn. The view of the chandeliers spasms caused
him, the knife of a doctor shuddered. Apprehension of insanity made him suffer horribly sometimes,
other was the fear of suicide against their will. Never had weapons at hand, and the fear of throwing
from the balcony was to close the night locked in his room, delivering the key to his sister,
the only witness and confidante of these ravings. His temperament and effeminate education she
had were the cause of them. Watched over, however, carefully as all Sufferers, who are more
than those who think, tried with great effort to refrain comprising a fool that falls on men so
constituted.

Anyone will be represented well what would happen to this boy when a woman so beautiful so flirty and
as experienced as Clementina was resolved to make his conquest. First her extreme shyness
kept him from realizing the conduct of the lady. I thought that those greetings affectionate,
those smiles were nothing more than the expression of a sudden sympathy with loss had excited
her. Yet, when he befriended them and multiplied signals their inclination, and her sister gave
the alarm, he could not imagine that there could be between them other than a close friendship
more or less protective and motherly by of it, delivered and fervent
for him.

However, the elixir of love that was dropwise Clementina dropping on his lips, came at last to the
heart. When I least expected it found love, dude. But as they made this discovery he was seized
with shame immense, and thought she would never have the courage to propose. On the one hand the behavior
of his idol with him, the constant testimony of sympathy lavished on him, lend themselves to
forge illusions. But it seemed so strange and unlikely that a shy, inexperienced, devoid of
attractive could obtain favors worldly lady so rich and so beautiful that instantly abandoned or
gently rocking them knowing that they were pure fantasy. In addition, no could get rid of the
pang from time to time in his mind. Lady resembled her mother, no doubt. For this alone had noticed
her, and had been his street tracker some time. Was not a real desecration, an abomination the
image of his mother inspire carnal desires?

Well, despite these regrets, his invincible shyness and the claims
of reason Rayford was increasingly captivated by this woman.

Truth got Clementina play all weapons at its disposal, which were not few or even moldy. As more
shyness of his youth growing up in her adoring daring and aplomb. In love this happens almost
always, but here, given the special circumstances of both, acquired greater importance. Shyness
it became a disease, a strange thing, of which was perfectly ridiculous no account could be overcome
by any means. On the contrary, the more efforts made to acquire poise and disengage front of her best
showing the emotion that was upon him. At first he spoke with some serenity, authorizing a little
joke or witty; then this serenity was lost, the jokes stopped. No one could approach it without
disturbed, could not shake hands without a slight tremor. If the lady staring at him, her cheeks
lit.

Clementina could not help but smile at the innocent dawn of love. It was enjoying full curious,
happy feeling even beautiful enough to inspire a child as rendered passion. Sometimes wickedly
amused at atortolarle in putting red, showing lively and outspoken as a cool, others plate
appeared to humor melancholy glancing shy as a schoolgirl: Others,
finally, treated him with tender familiarity, hearing about his life,
his actions and thoughts, as a loving mother or sister.

So it was when Raymond regained a little freedom and daring look
at the goddess face face.

Clementina often teased him for his scientific hobbies, went into his office and left scattered on
the table or the floor cartons of butterflies. This, if produce execute someone else in the
house a disaster, did laugh at the young naturalist.

Began to whisper among the close of the lady something about these new and extravagant their
love, advancing, of course, much more than they actually were.

One night food and triplet Pepa Frias said three or four elegant wild were around arguing
his case:

- Deseng치침ense you. Clementina ends up falling for a Newfoundland dog or a journalist.

When Raymond came in the room with his head of blond cherub and melancholy, with their appearance humble
and embarrassed, all eyes rested on him with curiosity. There were smiles murmurs one-liners
and stupid. Will be discussed. In general, men over However, we judged ridiculous behavior Osorio's
wife, but some ladies looked sympathy to the young man, very nice your air were naive, and understood
the whim Clementina. There were among them who tried to seduce him.

Was already considered our young mistress Clementina officer when
he still had not his lips touched the tip of your fingers or dreamed
it. However, love was doing such progress in his chest that he feared
one of these days fall on his knees before her as leading men of comedy.
He suffered horribly at the slightest sign of contempt, and enjoyed
as an angel when the lady expressed her affection anyway. Clementina
was in no hurry to give lucky lover, but she was determined to do
so. He liked to prolong this situation, noting with secret pleasure
the progress of the passion and events offered in the young. Disgusted
ravings of courtiers, was attractive to be adored live that way frenetic
and mute, to playing the role of a goddess. A glance from her was
pale or blush that child, a word he was glad or sad to despair.

Raymond
went to the Royal every night that it was his turn to Clementina.
Up to the stage to hello, and sometimes, as required by her, there
was one or two acts