 The mood was a bit oblivious. There was some concern in the party,
motivated by the presence of P. Gil, whom none of his colleagues, if except P. Norberto, showed
sympathy. The conversation was rolling from one to another subject, all unimportant. In a moment
of silence, D. Juan Casanova, who had his head tilted to one side, no doubt by the excessive weight
of the brain, somewhat discharged, saying with his usual solemnity

- Eloise, today I found his brother Alvaro in the Paseo de la Atalaya. He wore trousers frame.

Ms
Eloisa sighed, as long as he played the point of his brother.

-
These days have been a little sick.

I was told the servant - said sending a shy glance at the table where
he played her husband.

D. Martin and his brother for some time that were not related. For the trivial reason of furniture
of the house that was meant to bring to his own, without right, broke in a violent way. D. Martin (what
else?) Put his hand on his brother's face and challenged him over this. From then, total separation
between them. D. Álvaro living in his huge house, all alone, and D. Martin in his with his wife.
This, from time to time, hidden from Mr. Martin, was to visit his brother.

- Not appear to enjoy good health - said P. Gil, who did not know why he was interested man.

- Oh! Very sickly and delicate. Just taking care a lot can go on living.

Clerics, as always when Montesinos was in the presence of his sister, kept gloomy silence, with
a long face and plastered. If it were not, would insurance released a statement of outrage and sarcasm
against that wicked one, who was shocked the villa with his views and his conduct. With great
difficulty adhering to the narrow loop family.

There was a gloomy silence, for the ladies, realizing what was happening
in the interior of spiritual directors dared not speak.

Ms Eloisa turned to breathe another sigh and said painful accent, as if to end in a monologue
aloud:

- Too bad you have been perverted in Madrid!

Alvaro has a good heart ... and they all say he is a man of talent.

Clerics felt annoyed by those accolades. One of them, Father Melchior, is dare say smirk:

- Madam, permit me not to recognize talent who does not admit the truth of our holy religion.

-
At least it was the first in his chair and went among their teachers for a guy clear.

- And it will, madam, - said Fr Gil, whom the aggressive twang of
his partner was upset .-- It can have talent and be blinded in any
case.

His brother, unfortunately, what is in regard to the most interesting to man. But there is no reason
to deny talent. The heretics have been great, if not so, would certainly not have could give
the appearance of truth to error and deceive many people.

Although it felt wounded to the quick by the indirect reply, Fr Melchor
did not dare answer, and preferred to be distracted eating the anger.

For most who do not confess all Peñascosa clergy felt the superiority of P. Gil, who blamed,
of course, to was the only one among them who had followed the race can of theology. No other
attempt not contradict him for fear of making a bad paper.

The conversation was directed by the other side. Charlose lively construction project of a new
church near the plaza, flown by several neighbors and which opposed with all their might the
priest, fearing to divide the parish. The players were alternatives in their silence and noisy altercation.
Fr Gil remained silent and pensive, impressed with what he had to hear and say. Figure of Montesinos,
who had not seen more than three or four times in his life, and that from a distance, floating
in his mind waking up at Viva curiosity. The claim that Mrs. Eloisa had always been the first among
his classmates, helped to make it bigger, if not more interesting
to your eyes, man.

A desire vague, indefinite and conquer approach was born in his mind. When the arrival of
D. José Maria Osuna, the apothecary and gave the signal for the dissolution of the gathering,
even the thought rolled for his brain for shape.

The night was overcast and gloomy. The sky would drop with obstinacy a fine rain and cold. At
the door of the house the circles were divided: most stayed for the near the square, others went
down the street of the Quadrant.

And on it went separating all until they were alone Fr Gil, Osuna and his daughter, the only
living Field of fainting. Obdulia arranged that the P. Gil's tapase with his umbrella. The hunchback
moved back, glad not to go through the humiliation of having her daughter tapase, for because
of the large difference in height so it was good.

They walked a few moments in silence, listening to the distant roar
of the sea beating against the rocks and the faint sound of rain on
the umbrella.

The girl expected to P. Take out Gil the conversation of his altercation
with Fr Narciso, and indefinitely prolonged attempt silence.

Seeing taciturn and withdrawn, he ventured to say in a trembling voice:

- Are you angry with me, father?

- Why? - Asked the clerk in surprise, suddenly out of his meditation.

-
The dispute I had with D. Narciso.

- Ah!

Yes ..

In fact, I did not like the rebellious attitude that you have placed
in front him.

It is unworthy of a humble and virtuous young as you ...

Obdulia was silent, feeling in the heart of the censorship of his director. Finally he said,
putting red, which no one could see:

- You're right, I have committed a sin and repent ...

After a long pause, he added humbly:

- You can not imagine how much I dislike the look of envy D. Narciso.

-
Envy? - Asked the priest with surprise .-- Who is jealous?

- You,
Father, to you - the young woman said firmly.

- No, my dear, no -
said Fr Gil all bewildered .-- I can not be envied by anyone ... I
a poor clergyman ... a miserable sinner ...

- Well, even so ... I
understand ...

Replace your embarrassment, the priest then said sharply:

-
I beg you not to say those things again, or that thinks ... Forbid
it ... Note you are two priests - added after a pause, his voice softening.

Obdulia

no reply. Muda and heart squeezed by a strange sentence, continued
marching next to the cleric.

He spoke to Osuna without turning

- At the Country are going to feel the air, Mr. Osuna.

- When does not blow in that damn field? - Said the hunchback with bad humor.

And indeed, to engage with it, a violent gust struck them face and
was about to return umbrellas.

The cleric's robe, the petticoat of the girl waving: they had trouble
forward.

Finally reached the great portal of Montesinos.

They wiped his face with his handkerchief and restored the disorder of his clothes. Fr Gil
returned to lead a curious look, searching for the dark door on top
of which always burning oil lamp.

- Goodbye, Mr. Osuna, you rest
- said extending his hand to the hunchback.

Then he had a moment of indecision going to lie to Obdulia, but troubled by the look intense
and ecstatic that she nailed him, took his hat and bowed gravely, saying:

- Good evening, miss.

Again raised the umbrella and quickly saved the distance that separated him from the rectory.
The Obdulia eyes, motionless at the door while his father called, and followed him for some time.

Before
entering the rectory, Father Gil turned and also stood a few moments. But his eyes sought the
door where it had disappeared. Were above once embraced the vast and sombre facade of the
great manor house, seasoned with Hurricane shocks, serious and disdainful slept under the weather.
Contemplola long, carefully. His eyes shone with a mystical fire of joy. It was the look of
the apostle, greedy, tender, lenient. Perhaps the expression should be reflected in the eyes of
San Pedro in view of Rome.

IV

Since that night, Fr Gil did not dream of anything else.

Apostolate fever reddened with so that did not leave empty corner in your brain to another thought.
Within it entablose a silent struggle between the living and burning desire to enrich your life
with the conquest of a bitter enemy of the Church, and fear repossession, crazy, not knowing why
he inspired. In his ongoing walk around the room it occupied in the rectory, while with breviary
in his hand saying the obligatory prayers, often stopped at the window the tip of the curtain
rose, and looked timid and anxious at the palace of Montesinos. There was, stern, impenetrable,
hostile as a stronghold built by the impious. Balconies closed forever. The mystery man who
had lived to hate both the light sun as that of faith. Fr Gil then directed at the sky and
gave thanks to God from the bottom of my heart for having always had his hand, having been born
and live region in light of the holy Christian beliefs.

He tried in vain to inquire into details of the life and character of those lost sheep who longed
to bring into the fold. Who provided data were contradictory. While her sister and some others
had it as a perfect gentleman, a man of substance, astray by bad company and wicked reading books,
others also claimed known each other since childhood, painted as being perverse, mean-spirited,
always smiling the misfortunes and frailties of others, insolent, aggressive speech, since
labor could not be natural for his weak and sickly. In this regard recounted anecdotes of his childhood
and adolescence evidencing this view. Still others, he had a unfortunate for a man whom his literary
career disappointments and deep sorrow household had filled the heart of gall. Assumed that Montesinos,
fan letters, love of glory had gone to Madrid. Instead of it, was the only glacial indifference this,
coupled with the disaster of his marriage, he had been forced to
retreat back to Peñascosa "Tail between his legs," as a serious biographer
quaintly said.

And claimed Montesinos vented his bitterness and spite blaspheming word when presented the occasion
and publishing articles in newspapers and magazines of the Masons. Fr Gil knew what to expect.
Bowed, however, this latter view, that reconciled to some extent the benevolent of her sister and
some friends with the bad reputation it had in the village. What surprise did not stop was that
while the clergy and traditionalists Peñascosa cordially detested him, the few Republicans
and Masons in the town had not demonstrated any estimates. Montesinos was said that they laughed
even more wins than Catholics constantly and had fled their treatment.

This news, which gathered on one side and other hiding, of course, your project, were calculated
to take away from him. Impenetrable mystery that surrounded the character the man was interested in becoming
more and more frightened him. He knew how to attract matter a lost soul in the bosom of the
Church, but when this soul was that of a heretic, an enemy bitter of it, the act grew enormously
in the eyes of God. Circling the idea conceived several times in order to immediately close to
him, talk and convince with reasons and entreaties but soon left him fearing failure. Not that
you fret her least in his self: he was determined to suffer for God with joy all kinds of
martyrdom, the more an insult. The fear was having to give an undertaking as noble and glorious.
Gradually he became convinced that God Himself enjoined especially this was the main task imposed
on him by sending him to Peñascosa. And convinced sublime that purpose is without prejudice
to the adoption of the most effective means to carry to a successful auction, resolviose to communicate
with her godmother and Dona Eloisa help. Grande was the joy of the good lady to get the confidence.
Earnestly applauded the project, satisfying the most ardent desire of his heart, and promised
to do everything humanly possible that such a beautiful dream come true. There were long talks
between the two in were sought and weighted means of carrying it out, were drawn and rejected
different plans and, finally, were agreed that the toilets were at the house of D. Álvaro on
behalf of his sister to ask for alms to widows and orphans of fishermen who had recently died
at sea.

Seizing the opportunity, might therefore need to be friend and slowly begin the work of his conversion.
Ms Eloisa not doubt the success, confident in the proper fund of his brother and virtue and science
of his godson. When ever told him about religious practices, Alvaro had responded with some rude
invective against clerics Peñascosa; thought about the idiots, other wicked all laughed heartily.
But what could I say about this boy so Well, as scholars, as pure and austere habits?

He was not so confident. As he approached the day of the visit, he felt more restless and fearful.
Insistently asked God to give strength and courage, and prepare their
arguments and even his sentences with exaggerated care.

One morning, after having been in prayer long time, left the rectory
with a firm step, saved the little distance between him Montesinos
Palace, entered the dark portal and pulled the bell cord greasy.

This sounded far waterfall and sad.

The priest's heart contracted, despite encouragement that the sentence
had been infused.

Presented itself after waiting a long time a servant elder sullen
countenance.

Seeing the toilet, his eyes hard and penetrating expressed astonishment.

-
D. Alvaro is?

Slow to answer.

- You can see that is! - Said after .-- never leaves.

- What can you do?

- Why not?

- Well, tell you that the curate of the parish want to talk to him on behalf of your sister
Ms Eloisa.

- No need. Come with me - he replied sharply.

And after you close and lock the door carefully, he walked forward.

Do not fail to surprise the air of authority to excuse the old home,
and what little they had the will his master to receive or not receive
visits.

After crossing a large courtyard, wet, poorly paved, which grew all over the grass, surrounded
by rough stone columns stained moss, rose by a rough stone staircase and also the steps spent
by the use. Saved on the main floor wide open corridor, with wooden
floors, so deteriorated that it was necessary to be careful not to
put his foot through a hole. For all hand there is a strange abandonment,
the walls dirty, chipped, ground with a finger of dust, cracked ceilings;
there seemed an inhabited house, but an ancient abbey lonely. The
great manor house of Montesinos was rotting, crumbling, no owner it
tried to reform the child, without even notice it. On the second floor
raised led him through several rooms at the dilapidated and gloomy,
finally opened a glass door with dirty curtains, after taking a look
on the inside, said:

- He is not here. There will be uploaded to
the library.

Return to retrace his steps. They found a small door
in the corridor close, and she came followed by the priest's servant,
up a spiral staircase darker and dirtier even as the rest of the house.