 

His Excellency Mr. Don Agustín de Jáuregui, a native of Navarre and the family of the Counts Miranda
and Teba, Knight of the Order of Santiago and lieutenant general of the royal armies, played the president
of Chile when Carlos III relieved him unfairly and rebuff, Viceroy Don Manuel Guirior. The Chevalier
de Jáuregui arrived in Lima on June 21, 1780, and frankly, none of his predecessors received
the worst command under auspices.

On the one hand, Chandigarh Wild had just burned and looted several villages civilized and, secondly,
the tax charge and the inspector tyrannical procedures Areche serious disturbances had occurred,
in which many were magistrates and tax collector sacrificed to the popular anger. It can be
said that the fire was general in the country, Guirior however, that had been on hold the collection
of the hateful and exaggerated contributions, while better agreement
with the monarch turned his steps.

Also in 1779 war broke out between Spain and England, and repeated warnings from Europe the
new viceroy claimed that the queen of the seas getting ready a fleet to the Pacific.

Jauregui (last name, in Basque, means residence of the lord) in anticipation
of pirate feints, and artillery had to fortify the coast, organize
militias and increase Navy, called for strong measures to expenditure,
which increased the hardship public.

Just four months ago that Don Agustín de Jáuregui occupied the throne
of the viceroys, when there were reports of death due to Corregidor
Arriaga, and with it than an extension More than three hundred miles
was proclaimed ruler of the Inca and Peru, the cacique Tupac Amaru.

This is not the story here is tremendous revolution which, as you
know, seriously jeopardizing the colonial government.

Very little time had failed to make the work been done Independence.

On April 6, Good Friday of 1781, were captured by the Inca and their
main subjects, with those who exercised the most barbaric horrors.

There tongues and hands cut dismembered bodies, hanging and garrote. Areche authorized outrage
and a half.

With the execution of the Inca, his wife Dona Micaela, his sons and brothers, were the Revolutionaries
without a center of unity.

However, the spark was not extinguished until July 1783, held in Lima execution of Tupac Philip,
brother of the unfortunate Inca, the natural leader of Huarochirí. "So - says the Dean Funes -
ended this revolution and difficult to present the story again no
more justified or less happy.

"

Weapons of Jauregui's house were: Shield curtain, the first quarter in gold with an oak and a boar
cornered intern, the second gules and a silver castle with flag, the third Azure, three fleurs
de lys.

It is well known that the April 26, 1784 the Viceroy Agustín de Jáuregui received the gift of
a basket of cherries, the fruit was very fond of excellence, and barely had eaten two or three
fell down senseless.

Thirty hours after the palace opened the big door the reception room
and in a chair under the canopy, he looked great dressed Jáuregui
uniform.

According to the case, the clerk ceremonial chamber, followed by
the Royal Court, moved up a few steps away from the canopy, and said
aloud three times: Excellent Don Agustin Jauregui!

And then, turning the contest, gave this statement must: Gentlemen
do not respond.

He died! He died! He died!

Then pulled out a protocol, and hearers stamped their signatures on it.

So the Indians avenged the death of Tupac Amaru.

THE KITTY MARI-RAMOS who flatters with the tail and SPIDER HAND

CHRONICLE
OF THE THIRTY-FOURTH SEASON OF THE VICEROY OF PERU

(A Carlos Toribio
Robinet.)

At the beginning of the Alameda de Acho and the sidewalk
is back to the chapel of San Lorenzo, made in 1834, there is a dilapidated
looking house, which was, for the years 1788, theater not one of those
stories from trinkets and laced, but a drama that tradition has responsible
for delivering to us with all its terrible detail.

I

Twenty Aprils very Galanos, that funny brown skin velvety gave much fame of Lima, before spreading
about damn trendy concoction marinate the face, and scramble and
walk to the wall as a bricklayer in powder pink with rice blackest
eyes night of intrigue and veiled by curly eyelashes, mouth inviting,
like sugar amerengado; graceful body, if any, and a foot that was
standing to raise the temptation neighbor kiss, that was in the year
of 1776, Benedicta Salazar.

His parents, dying, left without homes or shelter cage and an aunt from witch and matchmaker,
as Quevedo said, and more grumpy than piltrafero mastiff, which took on a whim marry his niece
with a friend, that a Spanish league be revealed in a whiff son of Catalonia, and his hands were
calloused aindamáis and beard grown to more debt public. Benedicta watched the suitor with the
same mosquito nuisance than a trumpet, and not daring to give pumpkins
and melons, resorted to the hackneyed expediende to become archidevota,
having a father in spirit and say that their aim was to Monji and
not a wedding.

Catalan, Repulgue attentive to the girl, murmured:

girl with a lot
of boyfriends, none that you marry, if you keep it to four has a king
the deck.

Hence arose uneasiness between niece and aunt. The old woman was prudish and papahostias, and the girl
broke to mourn as a blessed of God, so that infuriates Megera, the shouting - Hypocrite! I do not
be fooled with purisimitas. What are these whining? You're like the dog of John Gizzard, before
you drop the stick and complain. "So Monji? Who does not know you that you buy, bag of cockroaches.
One would think not break plate and is able to take your eyes to the executioner Grano de Oro
"If I will not know my vineyard grapes? "So you suck the beard? Look at the prim of Jurquillos
that washed the bones fry! Then you should see bulls and reeds as I caught the best of my fingernails
beardless you pack the court!

Look, look at the kitten's Mari Ramos, who was averse to mice and swallowed the worms! Curse the
girl's half almond!

How are you players were daily bread of the neighborhood girls, jealous
of the beauty Benedicta, resulted in the nickname baptize Gatita Mari-Ramos,
and soon in the parish the entire zangolotinos lads and other children
that were to step out of church more, they said:

- What modosita
and how cute is the Mari-Ramos Kitty!

The truth of the story is that the aunt was not misguided in their inklings. A fop, Don Aquilino
Leura was the headache of the niece, and that it was already exasperated walk nose always a twinkling
of an eye, or that their love had come to end run over by all respect, giving the devil the
herd and doodle, this is one night happened ... what had to happen. The Mari-Ramos kitten escaped
through the roof, in love and pert company of a cat who smelled of
musk and whose hand was soft.

II

Give it time and not walk with lilailas and recancanillas. That is, while fans rush the honeymoon
to give entry to the rink, we can take, dearest reader, the usual historical parrafillo.

His Excellency Mr. Don Teodoro de Croix, Croix Knight, commander of the most distinguished Teutonic
Order in Germany, the Walloon guards captain and lieutenant general of the royal armies, made
his entry into Lima on April 6, 1784.

For many years he had served in Mexico under the orders of his uncle (the Viceroy Croix), and returned
to Spain, Carlos III appointed him its representative in these kingdoms
of Peru.

"It was their excellence - tells a reporter - a man of eminent virtue, and distinguished himself
by charity, then repeatedly kept the candle because the silver candlestick
had given to the poor, suddenly having no money with which succor;
frequented sacraments and was a true Christian.

"

The administration of the gentleman Croix, who was called the Flamingo, was of great benefit
for the country.

The viceroyalty was divided into seven municipalities, and these into districts or sub-delegations.
Estableciéronse the Royal Audiencia of Cuzco and the court of Mining, Victor repobláronse valleys
and Acobamba and copy the Bishop Rosa Chavez founded the famous house
in Arequipa orphans, not few great men gave after the republic.

Then arrived at Callao, entered the Count of San Isidro, the first ship of the Company the Philippines
and to see the great development of trade within five years of government Croix, simply enter
the import up to forty-two million pesos and Thirty-six export.

State revenues amounted to just over four and a half million, and expenditures did not exceed this
figure, seeing for the first and only time with us made the phenomenon of equilibrium in the
budget. Truth is that to achieve this, he turned the viceroy to the system of economies, reducing
employees, cutting wages, licensing Soria battalions and Extremadura and reducing its escort
to the third part of the force that kept his predecessors since Amat.

The dispute between the Marquis de Lara, Mayor Huamanga, and Mr. López Sánchez, bishop of the
diocese, was the stumbling block of the time. His Lordship, shedding of gentle priest, left his bile
overflowing to the point of slapping the clerk real notifying it of an order. The trial ended,
an angry rebuff to prelate, by decision of the Council of the Indies.

Lorente, in his History, speaks of an event that bears some resemblance to the process the false
nuncio in Portugal. "A poor Galician - he says - he had been in kind of soldier and exercised
after the peddler unprofitable offices and furniture broker, charged
family, needs and years, it was agreed that the natural child of a
brother of the Cardinal Patriarch President of the Council of Castile,
and to exploit the stupidity of the rich, he pretended to receive
king's letters and other exalted personages, which was answered by
a religious de la Merced.

The fraud could not be more rude, and yet she cheated several people. Discovered the fraud
and threatened with torture, had to declare everything. His considered as a crime farce of state,
and sentenced to extenuating circumstances came ten years in prison, being sent to Spain, starting
on record, his accomplice the religious. "

Don Hipólito Unanue sage with the pseudonym of scholars wrote articles Aristeo the famous Peruvian
Mercury, the eloquent Mercy Brother Jerome Cipriano Calatayud, who signed his writings in the
same paper with the name of Sofronio, the eminent physician Dávalos,
so enhanced by the University of Montpellier, the Rodriguez de Mendoza
cleric called for his Bacon vast science of Peru and that for thirty
years was rector of San Carlos, the poet Andalusian Terrall and Landa,
and other less enlightened men were the gathering of Excellency, who,
despite his learning and reputation as intelligent circle, gave strict
orders to prevent the country were introduced in the works of the
Encyclopedists.

The viceroy, as caustic and passionate libertine poet of riddles, could not bear the religious
of St. Augustine Fray Juan Alcedo bring him personally and recommend the reading of the manuscript.
Was this a satire on middle lines on the behavior of Spanish in America. His Excellency called the
claim of contempt of his person, and poor son of Apollo was banished
to the metropolis as a warning to priests and poets gossips of slops.

The Chevalier de Croix sailed for Spain on April 7, 1790, and died
in Madrid in 1791 shortly after his arrival in the country.

III

Are there eggs? - In the other corner for them.

(People).

Well, gentlemen, as I wrote the summary of the administrative history of the ruling, not leave
in the pipeline, it relates to excellence, the origin of a game you
know all the boys of Lima.

Nothing will put my case, that man is true companion La Joke [3] that made me the story that
you are going to read.

This is the case that the most excellent Don Teodoro de Croix had the habit of daily lunch four
fresh eggs boiled hot, and it was on this point so delicate, that
the Butler, Julian de Cordova and Soriano, was in charge of choosing
and buying himself the eggs every morning.

But when the viceroy was delicate, the butler took the cansera and greed to the point to haggle
with store owners to save a piquillo in buying, but at the same time
that this attempt had to choose eggs larger and heavier, for whose
consideration wearing a ring and also put the eggs in the balance.

If an egg passing through the ring weighed a dram or less than another, let him.

Both came to annoy the corner store owners Archbishop's Palace corner, corner Blankets and corner
of the Jews, who found them one day council meeting for choose balancer, the conversation went
on the foreman Don Julian de Cordova and Soriano, and the aforementioned
store owners agreed not to sell more eggs.

The day after the agreement Julian presented himself in one of the
grocery stores, and the waiter said: - There are no eggs, Don Julian.

Go to its mercy to the other corner for them.

Butler received the same answer in all four corners, and had to go further to make your purchase.
After a short time, the store owners of eight blocks around the square
cominero were bored of Don Julian and adopted the same arrangement
of his four comrades.

There were those who tell the viceroy's jogging and troubles of his butler to get eggs fresh,
and a day that was his excellence in a good mood he said:

- Julian, now where do you buy eggs?

- At the corner of San Andres.

- Well, tomorrow you will go to the other corner for them.

- Segurito, sir, and must arrive day have to go look at Jetafe.

Spot the source of the childish game of the eggs, it seems to me that
I can leave in peace the viceroy and continue the tradition.

IV

Proverb says that the mule and patience fatigued if there is trouble,
and so we think the love. Aquilino Benedicta and were so quick that
six months after the escape, heartthrob weary French were dismissed,
that is, without a Abur and there is the cheese that the mice eat
lunch, and went to find his humanity in the Cerro de Pasco, mineral
buoyant at the time. Benedicta spent days and weeks awaiting the return
of smoke, which is the same, the ungrateful that left him more naked
than lock, until, convinced of her Unfortunately, he decided not to
return to the home of her aunt, but renting a mezzanine in the street
Alameda.

In his new abode was for other mysterious existence of our
kitty. Enclosed living, and not enter into relations with the neighborhood.
Sunday went to mass at dawn, buying their supplies for the week and
not step on the road again until Thursday evening, to deliver and
receive work. Benedicta was a seamstress for the Marquise de Sotoflorido
with salary of eight dollars a week.

But it was withdrawn Benedicta's
life and as much as to leave the face rebujos the folds of the mantle,
it should not seem like the sack of straw covered with a neighbor
of the fourth tine, who gave the flower where the peeping, firing
it at close range a few chicoleos, intermingled with sighs, which
can irritate a stone statue berroqueña