 There is only lust in the flesh: is there
in spirit. And if divine spiritualism, evil does not stop him, and more unfortunately common
and frequent.

Now, I understand that this devilish spiritualism, not divine, is
what sets us apart nature and its innocent love.

Although I acknowledge gullible, largely benign, wanting to forgive him everything, I will
declare Here is a confidence thing.

In my view, even the devil himself and lost no seduces us so suddenly and without further ado.
It would keep it very well: you would not mind none.

The devil is founded at the beginning something reasonable takes us good terms and roads, until
we reached a certain point, where and, very gently, start the damned of God leading us enamored
by shortcuts, and so we lost and we lost.

In the case of spiritualism, to which we refer, it is clear that the principles are not bad
and foundations. Nature did much for the man, but the spirit has been supplemented natural work, making
it more suitable, more beautiful, more useful and more suited to our needs and aspirations.
The man, the weaker and more helpless than the lamb, the spirit, become blacksmith and fireworks,
has given weapons and forces a thousand times greater than the lion, the man, more naked Chow,
spirit, become a weaver, a tailor, a shoemaker and hat, he has dressed the most gorgeous costumes
peacock, the hummingbird and parrot; man, little smarter than the mole or the owl in point
of view, the spirit, become a manufacturer of telescopes, has provided him with more penetrating
view of the eagle, the man never would have done naturally and instinctively something were worth
half hive, the spirit become an architect, taught him to build castles proud, slender towers, enormous
pyramids, columns, graceful, comfortable homes, cathedrals, theaters, and in addition, cities wonderful,
the man who in the state of wild nature is prone to eating their similar, and that gave, and
still often given away in some regions, with rough acorns with grasshoppers crushed or raw fish
and rotting, the spirit, become a chef, artistically prepared dishes will welcome up to the eye,
and makes an act remember him most as he has in common with the animal is a solemn, white tie
and decorations, where they may celebrate the most momentous triumphs of religion, science,
philosophy and politics, the man, in short, that after sin means, and the state of nature and
no longer grace, must have been nearly as ugly as monkey, and dirtier than the pig, and most
pestiferous to the skunk, the spirit, become braces, a fisherman of sponges, a manufacturer
of toilets in civilization to put it a word, has made clean, fragrant,
clean and quite nice to be a model Minerva and Jupiter of Phidias,
the Vatican Apollo and the Venus de Milo and Medicis.

It would be no end to the referring here to go he has done in the spirit to complete, beautify
and glorify the work of nature.

So, a rule of thumb, it can be ensured, without fear of being exaggerated, that even the things
that seem natural, nature, although under review, has made Six-party one, and the spirit of man has
the other five. Could, for example, feeding our globe, in a state
of mere nature, two hundred million people?

I fear that no. Thus there is, what they say, because I have not counted, 1,200 million, then
one billion are sons of art, pure creation of the mind, a product of our fertile wit.

Let us, therefore, that one-sixth of all there, and perhaps much to, has given him nature has gifted.
The other five sixths have cost a lot of work to the spirit. And this work of the spirit, this
supplement to nature is what has value and price and measured and plotted and moves under the round
shape of coins or making the trace of a filthy vile papers are called
bills, which, as well as discs or ingots of metal, come to be incarnation
of the spirit, the subtle and lively and circulating of its value,
the imperishable essence of his secular work accumulated.

So far things are going well, but here the devil, as they say, starts screw up. Spiritualism
and excites leads us to love, to adore about this embodiment, or
better expressed, the metallization empapelación and spirit. For this
spiritualism and not by Christianity, the natural disdain: Do not
feel all the beauty of spring