 And
as we were putting it clear the event and details were piling up, mingling mocking phrases and reticence
of comic effect, squeezing his heart, little is pressed little, as if they all were pressing
in their hands, one after another, to make damage. But his face remained impassive. Not the slightest
contraction accused the pain the bite.

The gathering broke up at noon, as usual. Fernanda felt great comfort in breathing cold, damp
air of the night. Was craving to be alone with his thoughts and be fully aware of what had just
learned.

It had rained a lot. The streets, paved with thick stone, sparkled in the light of lamps. When
leaving the house took some down the street, others, including Fernanda upward toward the square.
Few steps were taken when they heard the loud trotting horses at
that moment that bent the corner and down towards them.

- There is
the Baron and his servant - said Manuel Antonio.

It was time, indeed, that the eccentric baron Oscos went for his usual walk through the streets
of Lancia. The unpaved his famous prancing horse, raising such a crash, even if the horse of his
servant, much more patient, it appeared that crossing the city a squadron. When crossing the
circles, Manuel Antonio, with the impudence to characterized him, he shouted: "Good evening, Baron."
But he turned to face them fearful, stared at them with his fierce eyes and moved on without answering.
The queen, running, said:

- Va drunk, as usual!

Everyone nodded laughing. But deep felt all, some more than others, the same thrill to see that
sinister figure. Fernanda, for women and special status of his soul, visibly flinch, after
spending continued even through the eyes of fear of two riders until
they were lost in the shadows.

When you get into bed, his heart tightened, wanted to analyze the
emotion that dominated; wanted to go back to the cause.

He felt ashamed of it. His pride made him cry with rage and loud

- Me I care about these pranks? What I have to do with him or her?

But I just felt utter such words heated cheeks with tears.

The Heiress Estrada, Rosa quickly turned and buried her face covered with blushes, in pillows.

VII

The
increase of the quota.

The terrible difficulties should arise Emilita for marriage because of the anti-war views of his
father, he bashed her with more ease than could be expected. History does not speak (although better
reason to have that many events) that day Nunez was solemn in uniform to ask D. Christopher
the hand of his daughter, that embrace memorable it received him warmly against his chest shaking
civilian, that incredible fusion of two heterogeneous elements created to repel, and thanks to the
love a sweet and naughty angel interpenetrate and understood. If by chance this Page Private object
of attention was a historian, would have no choice but to affirm the very great importance of
such agreement, which until then had considered unlikely, and at the same time to present fairly
the back, discovering how future generations So the distinguished
patrician D. Christopher Matthew was the victim of social injustice
and persecution of their fellow citizens.

You know, everyone in Lancia authorized to give thought to this respectable old song and a former
official on the marriage of his daughter. Sometimes directly, sometimes indirectly, always played
such an extent that alluded to the opinions against the development of ground forces supported
by him until then. The couple gave to be called "the increased the quota, "and some carried
their impudence to give such a name in front of his future son.

It is easy to conceive how much saliva would have had to swallow before losing, as he, an annoying
and misunderstood shame.

But despite all the rants and complaints of the neighbors, reflecting, in Matthew felt, rather
than its playful nature, envy that burned most of the hearts, "the increased quota" was making its
way. The deadline to do it was the month of August. When the time came he had acquired such
importance that, as usually in small towns, barely talked about anything else. Retired relationships
and four daughters were numerous, and they all aspired to be invited on the day of wedding.
Moreover, the same aspiration in his heart some decent and honorable Pontevedra battalion officers
friends of the future. Not being able to gather so many people Poetic Home for the Elderly,
was thought to hold the wedding in the country. The purpose home more Farm was its proximity
to the population.

D. Cristobal asked for the count, with who had extreme confidence, like his daughters, and he
hastened to put to provision.

In the Church of San Rafael was consummated early in the morning that fortunate partnership, the
sure pledge peace between the civilian and military. Fray Diego blessed him, as the priest
most bizarre and stronger anise drinker of the capital, enjoyed great prestige among the officers.
Event was attended by over twenty women and nearly as many gentlemen. As ended all moved to
the farm to spend the day. For being so near the population does not need coaches. However,
were the Count de Onis and Quiñones to transport the bride and groom
and some older people, as the two ladies de Mere.

Among the guests were almost all the gathering of the Grandee, enough of that of the de Mere and
a growing number of officers.

The count had been clean, as far as possible, the ancient mansion. Almost everyone knew him
as their home. It was the site of picnics obliged by being so close and by the beautiful forest
that I had. The counts had never refused permission. When they arrived and tasted the chocolate,
which awaited them in the vast living room with brick paving floor that served as dining-room
without ceremony spread through the house and farm ready to kill the hours until the best possible
way to sound the eating. The bride, Amalia, who was her godmother, and two other ladies went
to sit in a severely rooms. Her eyes were bright, her cheeks red and tried in vain dress with a
dignified and serious continent's deep emotion that seized. Which the accompanied, married all
the cherished endlessly, passing his hand through his hair, giving pat on the cheek, taking her hands
and occasionally leaning over to print a kiss on her forehead with the condescending, half tender,
half ironic, that the veterans contemplate marriage to the fledgling. No one of those that
when approaching a girlfriend not vibrate in your chest feel the echo of distant music and
some divine comes to her lips like honey from the remote moon, but it comes oh! with some
years left bitterish matrimonial prose. In every married woman is a disillusioned poet of his
muse.

Hence the baironiana smile on your face to see the joy that burns in the eyes of a bride.

Emilita
character had changed in a quarter of an hour. All playful and pert that had shown until then,
now appeared serious and brochette. Discoursed wisely with midwives, their partners, about the
installation of the pantry, domestic service all considered in terrible decline, the price
of meat. So old that had done in this quarter of an hour, which surprised not to see and a strand
of silver in her hair gold.

In contrast to her sisters, strange contrast, I had taken some years off since the lower take
up office. Had regressed to childhood. As creatures eager to air and light to grow, the forest
lanzáronse three, encouraging their loud screams and innocent silence and peace that reigned there.
Virgen del Amparo what they jumped, they laughed at the mischief that took place in those short little
crazy! To indulge in innocent games, which required that they had experienced recoil Suddenly,
the blankets are removed, leaving the hair loose, pull the gloves, fan, the umbrella, anything
that might symbolize youth and joyful stay with attributes adolescence. Not only do they float
on your back your hair angelic, but clock shed, bracelets and rings that deliver to his dad,
hanging before his neck to make a thousand strokes as simple and passionate girls who were,
done and observing that some officers of the battalion worthy of the contemplation Pontevedra,
fleeing blushing and confused, we include skirts with pins to leave open the foot and leg,
and the innocence of his heart run away, always fleeing through the woods forward, dodging and
nymphs of Diana the burning eyes of the officers.

And when they reach a secluded and lonely where shadows thicken, which fail worldly noises
nor penetrate the malicious eyes of men, called with cries of joy, like birds of God, her friends,
invite them to come and enjoy this nice free security where they can show their thanks and
be safe recreation surprised. Then a proposed play the string and the other access clapping his
hands. Jovita is the first. Jump, jump until it is exhausted and is dropped on the grass touching
his heart, throbbing with the fatigue, not the insane turmoil youthful lusts. Then jump another,
then another and another until they all tend lifeless but smiling, reflecting on their sweaty
cheeks and his eyes narrowed the sweet joy escaping from an innocent chest. And as lie intends
to play "the kite that dan - onion with the bread. "What a laugh! What merriment! The sleeping
forest resounds with silvery voices of those beautiful and gentle creatures! Tired of this game
spread for a moment. Some are group sitting at the foot of an oak tree trunk and counted in
low voice, as soft chirping thousand charming childish, others passionately delivered in search
of blue flowers and bouquets made with them placed on the chest, others pursued, like the swallows
in the air with piercing shrieks. Others, the more determined, devote their efforts to hunt
grasshoppers and other bugs fearful. But then turn to join because there is a very giddy girl who bets
to climb a tree if the help, and there other malignant says yes, she will help. Hands. He began the
spirited young called Consuelo, to put their feet upon the oak ridges more affordable. The
evil companion, which is nothing to Socorro, the third siren retired, holds. Climb at the end
of the first in the cross of two branches; rises after another, applauding nymphs and encourage
with shouts of enthusiasm ...

But behold, Rubio, the lieutenant of the third, a man attested to
their peers bold Gun and a devastating genius for females, it occurs
suddenly rear its bold head above a thicket.

The nymphs, seeing him, cry out and are petrified attitude in the surprise. Consuelo, from the top
of the tree, he apostrophizes violence. If your hand was immediately trasformaría deer that
new Actaeon. Here, for between ourselves, it is possible that a husband preferred to first transform it,
without prejudice go ahead on the classic metamorphosis ... But Rubio, the lieutenant of the third,
known well the value of these cries, and these apostrophes. Do not flinch, smile mischievously
and called hoarsely to their brothers in arms. What confusion, fear among those smiling daughters
of forests to approach their children in close column of Mars! No pick blankets, and gloves, and
umbrellas, anything short of what belonged flee and disband the forest screaming in terror. But
the red pants satyrs pursue them with a vengeance, are caught here and there and bring them captive
in the midst of hideous laughter. Meanwhile the poor Consuelo, and locked up the tree for
three of these sylvan voluptuous absolutely refuses to go down when not away at least fifty
yards. They Cruel! denied. Pray the nymph, irritated, is about to mourn, but not anger or get tears
soften the hardened heart of the infamous satyrs. Finally resigned to descend and, although it takes
many precautions castes, they fail to see a foot deliciously shoes and a leg birth makes them roar with
delight. But where is Rubio? Where is the most terrible and ferocious of them all? It is not
known, but long after leaving the woods dragging Socorro, the most sentimental of the sprites
of D. Cristobal. In the cruel features of his face is painted the expression of triumph, and
in hers shame and submission of a captive. Many hours later, the last of the night, sitting at a coffee
table and surrounded Marañón eight or ten of his colleagues, Lt. the third narrated with evil
smile expiration of the nymph, calculating at least in three or four who managed to steal kisses
in different places on his face sorcerer and all the sons of Mars cheered and celebrated with
this new triumph Homeric laughter of his heroic partner.

Finally, the winners were not too tyrants, and order was restored by the timely arrival of the
Miss de Mere, who were accompanied by Maria Josefa and Paco Gomez. The authors and solely
responsible for everything that had drawn the bottom of the chest. Carmelita Alepin wore a dress
of black silk that came to light only in large occasions, whereas Nuncita and therefore had fewer
years and respectability, could wear a suit clear with embroidered
flowers, as only seen in pictures of the last century.

Were happy eyes brimming with satisfaction, but the legs did not respond to that eternal youth
their hearts, walking paths relying on crutches and with his free hand holding the arms of
their escorts. They were received with cheers and hurrahs. It also heard some Family tired phrases,
such that no more than blessed to Meré indulged and laughed. That's why the teasing had little
merit. Ever there was a case of seeing them angry with friends, and that some slipped in together
until reaching quite a few times to rudeness. On the other hand were very prone to internal strife,
that is, to chafe each other, but we know how long these masses stopped.

The reckless spirit of Lieutenant Rubio, crowded by circumstances engendered an idea most happy,
to wit: that to better spend the time until dinner time to be constructed a swing, where the
ladies could enjoy the happiness of a few moments to shake off the diaphragm, and to provide
them knights gallantly moving the unit. Said and done: the search strings, a table saw, in less
than a quarter of an hour is all over. Rubio, while carrying out, it is still expressive wink
to his companions, including, smiling, silent, deeply admired, as
always, boldness and penetration of Lieutenant of the third.

Already tied the swing. Who is first? All show the same shame, her cheeks flushing same. One
would think wickedly propose Nuncita try it out. The others applaud the idea. Resists Nuncita
terrified. Carmelita or grant nor denies permission. Instances are repeated endlessly. The young
men find the idea increasingly original. Finally, almost by force, between the frantic applause
of the circle, Cuervo, the Herculean ensign of the first, lifted the girl in his arms and sits
on the table.

- Hold on tight, Nuncia! - Paco Gómez yells, while the lieutenant said, and some other friends
start rocking.

- Soft, soft! - Carmelita exclaims.

Do not worry, they do so because they fear to find her on the ground.

But even moving the swing sparingly, the air gets up, before long, the skirts of the old maid.
The officers laugh and push the swing to make it look more.

- Strong,
strong, that something is caught! - Paco Gómez yells.
