 

I will not deny me, my dear master, that the intrigue that has paid much chacha RamonCarlos is
reprehensible, but has a very great advantage. While I was so enamored of Dona Juana and being
so in love Isabelita D. Ambrose, the four would be jeopardized if my future and I tarry here.
So we have every reason to get out of this place While we do not take the blessing of the priest,
and two so smelly escape characters such as Isabelita stepmother
and brother.

Dona Juana Dona Micaela, SISTER OF FATHER GUTIERREZ May 4.

My kind friend, for relief of my heart, I must tell you all that
has happened.

I have always been modest. Believe me I am far from pretty and seductive. And yet, I do not know what it
is, no doubt unintentionally, and even without feeling I was escaping from my eyes a fire raging inferno
insane men. I said to you the vehement and criminal passion that inspired Carratraca D. Pepito, and
how much he has asked me, tormented and persecuted comin to my town. Believe me I have not
given a reason that young man daring enough to step, or better say, for the cliff to be tossed
a few nights ago. Rondon, and without saying oste or wort, is entered into my house and my room to
attack my honesty, when my husband was absent. In what danger I found! What commitment mine and yours!
D. Gregory came when least anticipated. And because we stumbled on a bench, took a bump and let
some of the ugly expletives he usually drop. If not for this, we are surprised. The presence of
the spirit of the chacha RamonCarlos saved us from a scandal and perhaps a bloody drama. What would
become of my poor D. Gregory, as thick as it is and leaving the country in defiance? I was
just thinking about hair stands on end. Chacha, fortunately, was D. Pepito Isabel's room.
That saved us. I have been very grateful. But it is still more my gratitude for the passionate
D. Pepito, who, not committing myself, pretending that he was the boyfriend of Elizabeth, and to my
own daughter-who has renounced his love for D. Ambrose and said he was a young bride of Malaga.