 

Beni holds in its division, that vast area of ??plains and mountains that make up the northern
extremity of the republic. Under an oblong shape, this surface, which goes from northeast to
southeast, is limited to the west and north-west in Guancané provinces and Carabaya belonging
to Peru and to the north, following the ancient border with Brazil, in the Beni River reunion with
the Mamore, as 10 degrees latitude South: limit then serve him during the Mamore to its confluence
with the Guapore as well as the course of this, heading toward its headwaters, to the extent
that Green River waters deposited therein. Leaving the border of Brazil, the department is
separated from the province of Chiquitos (which falls within the department of Santa-Cruz-de-la-Sierra)
and also in the province of Santa Cruz, by a fictitious line, crossing places inhabited the south and southeast
part of the plains of Moxos.

The slope of the Cordillera Oriental of the provinces of Valle Grande and the department Cochabamba
as limited to the south and southeast, and, later, the river of Mocetenes: Finally, the mountains
north of Dolls are set it apart from the provinces of Yungas Dolls and belonging to the Department
of La-Paz [1].

Circumscribed because of the way we just saw, the department of Beni, covers oblonga as of twenty thousand
square leagues (to twenty-five of the degree of surface area) covered between 64 and 73 degrees
west longitude meridian of Paris, and between 10 and 16 south latitude. This area comprises
the east and north, vast plains bathed by many navigable rivers, all tributaries of the River
Madeira, and therefore the Amazon River and the west or southwest through the mountains of
the eastern of the Cordilleras, mountains, which are always covered with the most prodigious
vegetation the world.

This department is divided into three provinces: the Caupolican, which occupies the north-west line,
in the mountains and plains that are at the foot, the country of Yuracaré, which is not only a
continuation South of these mountains and plains, the Moxos, finally,
that only includes the plain the northeast.

Distinguishing these three districts on many points, I give them
separately, a fairly detailed description.

BENI DEPARTMENT

CAUPOLICAN province [1].

Division and extent.
As I have said, Caupolican province occupies the north-west of the
department including between 10 and 16 degrees south latitude and
between 70 and 73 western longitude Paris meridian. She is an oblong
area, north-northeast directed to sudsudoeste, which has one hundred
twenty miles long sea, and over sixty wide, taking the term medium.
This area is also, more or less, of six thousand two hundred and fifty
leagues square, twenty-degree [2]