 Finally, I Mari
Pepa thought. Mari Pepa is coming here as a nurse with all my heart, and coming it will come Lita
too, and under the pretext of accompanying Don Celso, pass to his side all day and make this
big house an aviary. You what do you think?

Pearl seemed to me, and so he declared to Neluco.

He was to turn the plan into a thing made, and arrive in the bedroom this Chisco.

Which was no longer in it or nearby. Tona asking him, we knew that he was, some time ago, fixing
the cattle. We went down to the stables and there we found him. Something arm still hurt "jancia
the hombral" but as was the left, handles well for their business. He had a good 'appetite' is'
did discover "the other rowing final, and That was up as usual. I knew what his master, and he
had "the diantris" to consider that while the poor guy went through hell, he was sleeping leg
loose all night, and because of "softness and arreparus" who had been "malamenti" a man with his
belt. Pulsóle the doctor and he acknowledged the arm and head injury; gave him for safe and sound
if required to observe certain prescribed care, bye me until "later",
and left.

Before leaving I said very softly:

- I think I did very poorly last night to refer certain things in front of your uncle, so I was
impressed that the poor guy.

I suspected the same, and returned to the patient's bedside and sat at the head of your bed.
I found him more "human" than before, no doubt because it was also more depressed. Tempt him
not desire speak, nor was desirable provocársele as very expensive custom of Neluco, tell me I think
by having nothing else to occupy them there. It was certain that I had come really want to
my uncle: the view was what hurt me the seriousness of his condition and the danger he was
in the hands quedársenos when least expected, and yet the prospect of that number of bed days
imposed by the doctor to the patient, with Subject to that made me this extent, the scant and gloomy
precincts of that room, and tenacious, thick snow that had heaven in darkness, the earth without
soil to tread and imprisoned its inhabitants, I worried and hurt me why deny it! more. The heart
frequently vitiated human of these ailments, not evil itself, but for lack education of the
feelings, disuse of the most delicate of them, remnants of selfishness acquired the freedom of
a life without barriers and boundaries. I Explicábame that weakness, which seemed to grave
sin, with these thoughts, and they consoled me, although not as much as the hope that plans
be made and come Neluco Lita and her mother, Lita especially to relieve the weight of the cross,
renewing the air and faces and sounds and light up those areas sorrowful, silent, black and dreary.
But lend themselves to come Mari Pepa and her daughter, despite their good and charitable desires?
Is not arredrarían barriers of snow and cold, cold that he had not felt maybe I did in Russia, not
to be in Tablanca other recourse than to the kitchen and a bad brazier to fight him? I knew Mal breaths
tablanquesas ladies! By midmorning entered the door of the room of the house the daughter
and granddaughter of Don Pedro Nolasco, shortly after I heard if any "chirp" and fill the passage
of Argentina and harmonious voices.

Also He had guessed my uncle.

- Jesus! ... The cellerisca! - He exclaimed, to hear, in a tone that showed more joy weigh.

I went to meet him and got a pinch without hiding the great joy that his visit gave me. The eyes
and nose were all that was seen of his people: all else was a conglomerate skirts, jackets, shawls
and woolen shawls thick and sweet. Asking and saying, pray quietly (when it was undesirable
that could hear my uncle), now almost shouting (to agree hear it), were loosened head and discovering
his face, until it appeared in Lita (I saw little in the other) as moon in January between gray
clouds, or more properly, as an August apple wrapped in the leaves
of the branch: this was coloradito of smooth and down the roundness
of her flesh there.

As they came well-informed and educated by Neluco, little or no talk about the role they corresponded
in the comedy that we were going to represent in front of the patient. Don Pedro Nolasco was unable
to accompany them, or rather, had not allowed them, for fear fall would have been fatal in hombrazo
of his years ... because they were the roads Virgin Mary, our Mother! they were scary. It 'eslociaban
"foot in the snow as eels in hand. Only on the rise it had fallen scree (Lituca) twice, and
the same knee that must have made a pity. I had not seen it yet, but I could swear by what the
"sting", but not preventing movement, thank God. Moreover, they knew that the patient did not
suit him talk, although the request: the Occasionally, some chunga, as if evil was a joke, on time
and with love, drugs and food, and to forgive them if they openly for inviting us to eat, because
they, under the pretext of the snow, had planned to stay until night without Don Celso malice
the truth of reason. They came equipped to do more entertaining work hours remaining around the
brazier.

My uncle were received with four jokes and some regrets. Although still alive, was given be dead
now. They protested against the course, assuring him that he had "lodging" then it was the
coldness of snow, and may also feel some of that would give the knowledge
of what happened on the mountain the day before.

- Do not deny it
- it answered my uncle - and therefore no two ways about what you
I said, for what can be expected as a man of my vein when left mayor,
as I am mayor, by tinkering like that?

It was the truth, but, nevertheless, insisted the women bonísimas
deny it, but not the impetus needed to achieve its charitable purposes,
they were extremely affectionate and were imposed and shaken before
that exhaustion and that cadaverous pallor the poor Don Celso, neither
for the sake of maintaining their rights ignored by professional tyranny
of Neluco, remembered and rising.

They left at last in the calm he needed instalámonos in the adjoining room, came gray woman
with encogollado brazier of glowing embers, put him in the box that was there, and we sat around it,
without losing sight of the sick, Mari Pepa, her daughter and me.

Mari Pepa got a very large pocket of her apron to the accoutrements of media; Lita (I did
not know what withdrawal of its complicated wrappers) to the nail, and both began to work in their
work and talk at the same time, but with eyes and sign with the mouth, which had to do with
the status of my uncle. Of "what happened yesterday," there was much more, and with some care
to not heard from the bedroom as I could impress again. It was a miracle of God that we do not hear
most of it, because with the stubborn determination I had in that there should be something between
Lita and physician I was really heavy and insistent in certain passages of dialogue, particularly
during Mari Pepa getaway to the bedroom, because my uncle had coughed or believed that he
had called ... or to see if I needed something, but coughed or call. At Don Pedro Nolasco had
known all, shortly before going on "the cloud" that had terrified. They had lived in the same
anguish I late into the night. I spoke of Lita had doubts Toper's home, and here's where my tenacity
bordering on impertinence. I met him at a glance strangeness with my beautiful interlocutor who responded
to me a hint that were cleared too my intentions. I won the serenity that seemed protest against
poor understood right to ask "certain things" for very obvious they were.

Then came Don Sabas, complaining since the passage of the regard that had been saved in our house
that night. Who told us that traveling at about the mountain, no guts to stay with him for doing
his duty at any time to call your door? And if the thing had pressed a little more than pressed,
what would have been Christian in danger of death? Who have been
the responsibility?

What would he said and what of us? ... And while not squeezing the thing, how soon are good friends?

-
Well, look - he said to bed hugging Don Celso - what is it you do not forgive.

- Bah, bah! - The aforementioned thrashing grumbled a bit - do not break my head. You can JACER
what suits you, well I know what I did.

- Jinojo! - Said Don Sabas - is that the courtesy that was such that
if not now topo mesmo with Neluco, blessed day passes without me to
know what happened to you last night.

I intervened, desenojé the Priest, he remained alone with my uncle
and continue the others around brazier, as before, talk talk, on "last
night" over "what happened yesterday" and even on certain promises
made by me to my interlocutors that the day was known, eat at home
any time; promise was still unfulfilled, because it noticeable from
the hectic life he led uphill and downhill, if not the fierce temporary
I had locked the house.

At noon came Neluco, not found in the patient nothing special or new, nor wanted to enter the
plea I made to stay and eat us pray for his part, I was rebuffed
and the Cure.

Then they went both together after prescribing first aid plan for the evening, and to avert
the second to that for any reason or human courtesy we fail to notify the minor novelty Lita
and her mother returned to the bedroom of the patient to weigh the improvement noticed in he
(and God knows how knowingly lied in their weights), and give Mari Pepa few sips of milk while
his daughter arranged the bedclothes and women entering gray lounge set the table near the hearth,
and little time we sat down to eat.

Eating and talking, I had to say, because I asked my talkative diners, what things were eaten
by the wealthy, and at what times, in "into the world again." All were astonished those women
very simple, and I perceived this, and I liked to speed up the note, and so I to ponder the exquisite
taste of frog legs and swallow nests, including distinguished and elegant junk food that I
quoted. And it was to see the face then Mari Pepa put and gestures of disgust Lituca was looking
at his mother and back at me to me, as if he doubted the truth of what I meant.

- Pure vice daughter, pure pleasure - said after Mari-Pepa -; pure pleasure of it jartura those
living Genton, of what God created.

As it was so bonded with each other, pulling out the way of eating lifestyle and mode of travel.
New fans and new amazement. Thesis also extremely well here, and even suspect that I lied a
little, but within the plausible and pardonable. Lo bed near dawn and rise after midday to stay
at home until the evening, I marveled as much as swallow nest soup
and fried legs frog.

- Mary my Mother! - Lita cried upon hearing
it - because if these people never see ever the sun, so what is he
can see the happy and fattening?

I think that's living against the law.

- Vice, daughter, vice - insisted Mari Pepa -; habit of not knowing what jacerse in a life so
spoiled.

Lita asked me if I also had 'over there' these bad habits, I replied that yes, and I said,
all comments, with a truly naive and infantile simplicity:

- Well, be good rascal you ... Right, mom?

I celebrated the saying with a laugh no less naive, then giving thanks
for the compliment, about the same time responding to the question
Mari Pepa:

- Who knows, daughter of soul, who knows?

Jaz who eat "nial" swallow unruptured of "doubt", you can jacerse
to live that way without offending God or break your health.

With the exception of his mother Lita was very red, and he wanted
me he could amend like his impertinence, and I, without leaving conclusion,
paved the way for your wishes offering it to boot a statement, not
devoid of sincerity, of my great disappointments.

- It would happen
about now - I objected Mari Pepa - when one was married, to live as
God intended.

What the heck want to know and possible when they are lonely monsoon family open house? ... Well,
look, Don Marcelo, said that for these houses, close-knit they are,
whenever the devil has a key.

- You can have it - I said I was very
formal - but in mine never entered.

- Jorrios, trapacerón of satanincas!

Released

after the laughter, and dropped it while Lita. I help them with another, by the grace I did both, and
then began the "mince" and shootings that could not miss there, among
the three.

Because these riddles are innate in women of all castes and latitudes; and put them all in the
same situation, all except the differences of place and style come to dig in the grounds and
with its own aims.

Always initiatives and force of daring, the cunning and tenacity, the mother, the subject studied,
the ill-concealed curiosity, eloquent silence, looking sideways, the punctured subtle, daughter.
So the two came to take for granted that I would have had no less than fifty brides nor would
drop the remaining three in Madrid crying my absences and maybe my
ingratitude.

But if the background scene was not new to me, éranlo, to fascinate,
those quaint nuances of language, this dialectic haphazardly, without
scaffolding or rhetorical devices conventional sanotas those sprouting
from mischief palabreo joyful, spontaneous fresh, airy and transcending
to 'land' as the roses in the garden between the virginal and splendid
litter fence that protects them.

So I felt in my soul that had just this highly original "discreteo."
