 Dende gayola entered before yesterday.

Do you know the Lord?

- I think so.

You call him at the gate, if there is no objection.

- No pregnancy, because while being held incommunicado, we have no
Bartolinas for many prisoners.

Jaruco Eh! cried the keychain from his position.

And word is repeated by other prisoners in the same tone of voice,
came Jaruco, recognizing easily the master and slave.

Entrol to it so strong convulsive shudder, which was to grab with
both hands at the gate.

- Sumerced I take the blessing, bathed in
tears faltered.

- Why are you crying?, Leonardo asked angrily.

-
Wow, Leonardite child, remembering the hard time that I have given
the family in my absence.

- With your absence, dog?

With your flight.

- Boy, I'm not fled. I left home Christmas Eve was designed to assist a dance for people of
color out there. Around the city had a tragedy a mulatto.

I was wounded in the chest, I picked up an acquaintance in the street
and took me to the room in which he lived.

As I spent the time healing. After this misfortune befell me.

- What misfortune?

- The of the unjust imprisonment.

All men are exposed to a stroke of bad luck.

- From bad luck, not bad head. Is seen, Dionisio, you do not want blacks for good but for evil.
If Mom had dispatched to you when you did that wit dog of yore, there now you'd be in jail. What
crime you are accused?

- Still do not know the cause of my imprisonment, child leonardite.

- Do not know, eh?

Is not the death of Tonda?

- Maybe I raise this false testimony,
child who is bad because it falls his feet and killed.

Get office, child, I was very calm, sewing shoes a shoe shop in the
Rue de Manrique, when she appeared at the door the captain Tonda.

From I saw them I knew it was coming for me, and tried to slip away.

Dismounted and went to him as if to surrender.

At the door of the shop had a wheel stop and I slipped out between her and the wall of the house.
Tonda I fell back shouting: - Date, date!

Shortcut! He tripped over a rock, fell on the sword that had naked and injured in the stomach.
Did I have to blame for his death?

- Who caught you?

- Captain
headman of Health.

I took when I left for my job.

- I guess he told you why you lit.

- No word.

He just told me he had orders to take me dead or alive.

- In good you've got, Dionisio. It will be much and give thanks to God if she escaped with the
skin.

- Whatever you want God and the Virgin. I trust in my innocence. But do not think the kid that
I love and Miss will do something for me?

- Do?

Nothing. Do not wait. By the way you have behaved decently with your masters! For them, the whole
family, for yourself, Dionisio, you'd better bend the neck in Point
field.

With that you'll never insulting white girls.

- Me, Boy I've insulted
a white girl or color?

No, Leonardite child, I have consciousness of having insulted any.

- And one that was the cause of your quarrel with the mulatto to the
output of the dance?

- I did not insult the child.

For the bones of my mother that I did not say a bad word. Le asked a minuet, I said she was tired
and then went to dance with José Dolores Pimienta. I complained to her the snub, he took his
defense, we lock our words and we beat a the street.

- If you do
not let you talk hanged.

A otherwise. Do you know if they have brought here the same prey young man of your tragedy with Pepper?

-
I'm sure is not here.

Just put one foot in the prison courtyard, is published and circulated
shouted his name.

- God protects you, Denis.

- Child charity, another
word.

I remember that I delivered at his mercy a garment belongs.

- What piece of clothing? End soon, prontito.

- Had me in his pocket, hoping to give it one day, the watch Miss gave his market last year,
but they took it away to enter the prison.

Must be in the hands of the Warden.

Dionisio told in as few words, how and when it came to power the clock and moved said to withdraw
his young master:

- Could you tell the child how is Mary Rule?

- Mom brought her wit. Is now in the city earning wages. Have not you seen?

- No, sir. This is the first news I have of his coming. Why God did not want trip over it? I
see today in this prison.

I have served as godmother to Miss and would cook at home.

Leonardo night and returned home from the Commissioner and was surprised
in the act of sitting at the dinner table with his mistress.

- Hello!

Both good over here!

Cantalapiedra said very cheerful, going to meet Leonardo, with an open hand outstretched.

- Good to find, he said serious and cold, pretending that he had not
noticed Commissioner friendly demonstration.

- I waited, hiding Cantalapiedra
said the snub the bad impression made.

Fermina just tell me that you had honored with his presence this humble shelter.

- I can speak a word with you?

- And two hundred also, Don Leonardite. You know that I am your most
obedient servant.

Felt not be in the station when you were at dusk.

He had to go racing the Policy Secretariat.

So that I do not know as we are not in the way, if you come there.

Bonora! screamed, a chair for this gentleman.

- Excuse the compliments, Leonardo said haughtily. It is not for sitting.

Let's talk provided it is standing alone.

- Why not here in front of Fermina? I have no secrets from her. We are inseparable.

- How you caught authority to Cecilia Valdés? asked the young man desperately.

- Not with me has invested HM King Fernando VII, QDG, but with Mr.
Mayor to sign the warrant, a complaint from a parent.

- What Mayor
and which parent will tell you serve?

- That's too much bread in
between, Mr. Gamboa, the Commissioner said, laughing.

It seems like you something that is obscured ... Sit down and cool off.

- The girl has not committed any crime, so it is improper and illegal
to prison if is that everything has been nothing but a farce, or something
worse, God knows what purpose.

- None of this goes against me, I
have been a mere instrument in this case.

- Tell you if the name
of the complainant.

- Vd. knows better than me, and if you do not
know will know soon.

- Will you allowed to say the Mayor?

- No inconvenience:
the O'Reilly Don Fernando, Spain's largest first class Mayor of the
District of San Francisco ...

- Where did you a girl?

She is not in the public jail.

- Shall I not reveal it now. I drove to where I was ordered.

- After you hide it dishonest purposes.

- In my refusal to satisfy the curiosity of you does not show such
outrageous deduction.

Logic, logic, philosophy student sir.

- It matters little whether you want to throw the secretive and mysterious to me. I must see the
truth, and they may still, despite the author and instrument of this rude and intrigue indecent.

That
said, he went on his way home in high dudgeon. The family had a visitor in the room. No I decided
to enter it ready the carriage, moved in a suit, and when asked by signs her mother to the porch
railing of the reason for this precipitation:

- I go to the opera, he replied briefly.

Sang Rossini opera maestro Ricardo and Zoraida, to benefit the Santa
Marta, the beautiful Teatro Principal.

[59] It was then the company entrepreneur Eugenio Arriaza, and director
of the orchestra Don Manuel Cocco, brother of Jose, which we saw in
the mill La Tinaja.

The patio or yard and the boxes were occupied by a public medium
then nothing functions fan lyrics.

Leonardo came some time after the standard curtain.

Of course, he heard the overture to Tancredo, who preceded the opera
that night.

Looking for a man whose place in the theater knew in advance was because, as Mayor preside over
the function from the central box on the second floor.

Sitting was the pair of Madrid wife, embedded in music and song,
as he kept the back, standing by the door, the page mulatto, livery
rigorous cover castles and lions embroidered gold.

All this I watched through the porthole in the door of the box, closed against the corridor.
Could have called, assured of a friendly welcome input, but preferred wait on the balcony of the
refreshment room which overlooked the mall Paula.

Calculated according to Leonardo, shortly after completion of the first act, he felt measured steps
through the room, then a hand rested on his shoulders and followed a voice in a dramatic tone
declaimed: - What does the friend of the brave Othello?

- Ah! Is that you, Fernando? The farthest I had from my mind.

- What are you doing here so lonely and pensieroso?

- I just got.

-
No saw you in the lunettes.

Why do not you come at once to my box?

- I figured there was no place for me.

- For you are always by my side.

- Thanks.

- Are you in moments of inspiration? Is the witch on the tripod? I welcome that. Feel interrupt.

-
I inspired! It can be: the devil.

- There would be nothing strange that you inspire the urban scene that unfolds at sea the balcony.
Will you composed there in the mind an article descriptive?

Insurance. In fact, Who that houses the soul of a poet is not inspired by the sight of row houses
that unequal our right, protruding balconies high Conde de Peñalver manor? Or the trees in this
mall without ending coffee Paula, now dark and deserted? Or the hospital of the same name at
the bottom, which seems an Egyptian pyramid, from which blackened top, Bonaparte said, are watching
the centuries?

Or the opposite side, very dark mass of the ship Sovereign, nailed, so to speak, in the still
waters Bay? Can not you see how it stands out from the sky where the stars sparkle? Who would
not say they, rather than light shed tears over the impending disappearance
of the last remaining our naval glories?

- Fernando, so poetic that
scene for you, it has no meaning for me.

Perhaps because I know it by heart, or because I'm black humor.

- For me, kid, always has charms of nature. In her presence forget all my penalties. And by the
way have you read in The Journal "A trait of my visit to Mount Etna?"

Arazoza was the other day at home in order for something original
... He insisted and gave these blots.

- Almost never see El Diario.

-
Then look for it and read it.

The article is short. It was published three or four days. I wrote
in Palermo.

I did not put my name, because he says ill of a mayor ... You understand
me.

He went out with my initials only and have you to believe that we
have come to congratulate me more than twenty friends?

Yes Pedro José Morillas hugged me and gave me the article with the clouds. I want to hear your
opinion.

- Afternoon is that you can give it to you, Fernando. My head burns, I get to shoot myself, or spreading
it to someone, that readings.

- Man! I'm surprised. I know. Are you the same student in the class
of Philosophy at the College of San Carlos, or another in your figure?

What has become of that good humor and that catchy joy that you were
earning the affection of all your classmates?

Stop your nonsense and childhoods. Are you in love?

You could give in such a stupid thing after your twenties and most
Aprils and your experience ...

- It is the passion of love which
consumes me with this chest.

It is the anger, the pain, is the despair that produces the first disappointment of what are
the world, men and friendship.

- Come on.

Why deny it? You're in love and unrequited.

Sludge symptoms are love. What is the real source of your troubles?

Confíamelas.

You know I'm your friend.

- My friend! cried the young man with an ironic smile.

I thought you were, but I am disappointed you're my worst enemy.

-
What date is your disappointment?

- It's disservice you did to me.

I do not know how his memory will not gnaw the bowels.

- Will you have lost your mind? Come on, man! And fall.

All your anger is born ... Ja, ja!

- Do not laugh, seriously said Leonardo. This step is not laughing.

- Why, what is? Mayor stressed. Here is the first time, since we know that I see serious y. .. bobo.

-
Do not call to seriousness and silliness it touches into fury.

- Stop your childish nonsense at this time. Your anger seems to be leading me, and if you were
not encalabrinar, you would see that, far from hatred, you owe me gratitude.

- Not missing anything, but after wounding me where it hurts most, I expect thanks. What freshness
of yours! Did you know that was my girl Cecilia Valdés?

- I learned it the same day, as you say, I did the disservice ...

-
But before that, what were you news of its existence?

Did you know his character and background?

- What had to know! Iota.

- Then, how without the knowledge of the facts, without formation of summary gave the command
in prison?

- Because there who asked no such requirements.

- How come such a friendship call me?

- You will find there.

- What crime blamed the girl for the abuse?

- No one else, as I understand, that of love too.

- So, you have knowingly committed an injustice, let us say it clear, an arbitrary act.

- I plead guilty of this sin.

- Sin say? It's more than that. In our laws is called a quasi offense, which still can you get it
in the face. If you have included the sad orphan who has no advocate, deceive medium to medium. Here
I am, I will put the matter in question.

     - Evil will, Leonardo, said the mayor with calm and dignity.

         Bad will, I repeat.

As as I'm concerned, your released would not hurt me none, bounce off the chain mail me high
position of my titles of nobility and my valimiento here and in court. For this next I'm immune.
But you, to take the way you say, (I speak as a companion and friend)
not get anything but shock a little and give your father saloon, whose
complaint I leaned formal written for the procedure ... arbitrary
charges me.

Your father, your good and honest father, came to my court and established
complaint in every way against this girl, by seducing a minor, son
of a wealthy family and decent, with her charms and chicanery.

In the discussion we had, he lamented, almost with tears in his eyes,
that were made a lost player, womanizer, who neither study nor could
meet you in April as he and your mother waiting for you to take the
administration of the property next year, ie after marrying the beautiful
and virtuous young lady Alquízar, as were committed all for the frivolous
girl, whose love affairs disgrace undoubtedly a young man Count must
be before long.

- "So this is the epitome of the story my father
told you?

Listen, or contemplated now the reverse of the medal.

There is no such seduction, deception or pumpkins in this business. The girl is very pretty and
I idolized.

Why did not correspond to his love?

But it Daddy little girl has since followed the steps, holding, dressing,
shoes, celándola, dicking, caring for more and better than it ever
has maintained, clothing, shoe care rounds and none of their daughters.

Why? You wonder what purpose. Only God and he knows it.

I do not think bad yet, but just the fact kidnap when my grandmother
just died, the only person who could oppose serious obstacle to achieving
of twisted desires, I suspect that my father does not harbor good
intentions ... I relieved and pleased, however, that whatever the
shower of gold that he may pour the her feet will not get more than
what it has achieved so far: bitter hatred.

But you, my friend, me good away from me and deliveries tied hand and foot in power of my father.
Will I have to forgive me this bad game? Never.

- You're unfair, very unfair to your father and me.

With him because I did not accede to their entreaties, but when I'm fully convinced that they were
righteous and holy intentions for you, the family and the same Valdés.

Me are unfair, because seeing your father was resolved cut in any
way, no matter the cost, your clandestine relationship with the girl,
I decided to lock her in the Collected for a short time, say, until
you get Baccalaureate and marry as God intended and as appropriate
to your class and the wealth of your family.

What then, if you think you will return ... the first love.

Leonardo was silent and thoughtful, and then said feebly: - Bye, Fernando!

This

stopped him by the arm and said: - Thou shalt not go that way, as
if we had fought.

Come to my stage: greet my wife and hear my side of the second act
of the opera.

To alleviate there is some pain balm comparable to good music.

CHAPTER VII

The biggest monster of jealousy.

CALDERON

- What are you up you mess with a little boy from the suburbs?, Asked Rosa to husband still in
bed .-- Di, answers, he added codeándole behind him, because he thought
that is to Swedish or asleep.

- I do not bring me and took me mess
with anyone, Rosa, said Don Candido in his sleep.

- Your own, you do.

I have said, I know for a fact.

- Who told you that story?

- No story is true.

You have taken from his home to a girl a few days ago ... The author is not the case.

- What is Rosa. Some influence in you mightily.

- Then we will clarify that point.

No I mean that you're back at it again ...

- Do you see what I say? Since you have been prepared against me. Your son ...

- Well, now check it killed my son.

- Your son, I say, "continued Don Candido without getting upset, I
was about to commit the greatest of escapades he has committed so far.

I interposed, because at last I'm his father, and I avoided the commission
... You do not want to knock on it, what other recourse I can only
touch her?

Lo, in short, the amount of my old ways.

- I did not stay to hear!

"So to prevent the child committing a skull, is the father and gives a scandal?

- In this case there has been no scandal.

- What!

Have you had hidden the thing? Too bad. See what interest do you have in it.

- No one, in my belief, that of preventing the commission of a real
shame for a person that touches us as closely as is our son.

- What
shame?

You use some bad words ...

- Time was that Leonardo is chasing a black girl ...

- And how do
you know?

- I know for the same reason that you ignore.

- Nothing
I say that.

Leonardite is natural, young and handsome, chase girls, as you say. What does not seem natural
to you, old and ugly, you're so aware of the Boy womanly pursuits.
Are you envious? Do you want him to get a monk? Why what's plots?

-
Because I'm responsible for their conduct before God and the world.

-
What a virtuoso! Would not you were doing the same and even worse
when you were their age?

- Maybe he did the same when looking, not
worse, at least I do not prick the conscience of have corrupted any
young honest or home.

- You're right: Set yourself apart. But I think
the work toilet you take ... I will always believe that, for women,
Leonardite next to you is sucking child.

- Let us recriminations,
Rosa, and let's get to what touches us more closely, as parents of
the boy ... The thing is very serious, serious ... Supe ... Not care
how, where, when. I knew I made large purchases of furniture and household
gadgets. Had to spend a fortune. Where has there been? Have you in
debt? Do you have won the game? O. .. Is you, as Bonaz as always,
has provided the means?

Don Candido had hit the milestone. Rosa Negate
"the loan, have done hidden husband? Tantamount to discredit the child
from her father, always willing to look their faults by the black
side. So even though convinced and mortified by the deception with
it had been practiced, preferred to state the truth and bear the blame
for the dissipation famous son.

- Do you see now, Rosa, said Don
Candido without acrimony, the bad result of blind love some mothers
to their children? Do not you recognize that in some cases it is better
to sin with them however hard and soft? Leonardo asks you money and
lend it, because you can not tell no, and because I figure that if
you deny it dies of grief ... And he takes the money, buy furniture,
rent home ... What the hell? Of course, clearly, to carry it dear.
No great insight is needed ... So that, if I advance, bye, studies!
Goodbye school! Goodbye, wedding in November!, Like you and I had
agreed, according to him.

- Well is everything you say, but I'm hoping
you say where you have hidden the girl.

- The Collected. It seems
to me, watching the race said that the wife remained silent and shook
in bed, seems to me that this was the best and least risky game that
could have been chosen to save the boy and the girl from the precipice
of ruin ...

- Yes, said Dona Rosa, do you figure that because you've
got the girl in the Pickups, and everything was arranged and completed?
Know that you have not achieved anything. The child has taken the
thing to heart. Love is blind.

- Who! Don Candido said scornfully.
Love, love! Or gout. What he feels that boy's blood boil, fever, headaches.
It has nothing to do with this heart. It will happen. Do not worry.

-
You will, eh? Maybe. But the child is not eating, not sleeping, suffering,
suffering, sorrow, crying. I fear a disease that costs you the feeling.
Yeah, like you do not see, not hear, not what understand, speak as
you speak.

- Put your thing on your part. To you, who have more influence
on him than me, you belong to you comfort him and make him by trail