 In
fact, police in Geneva is the work of citizens, and it is they who, guided the common interest
of freedom and honor of the state, maintain the most perfect order, in harmony with the most
complete personal liberty as may be innocent and logical. In all public places in Geneva is
a table or cartulon with this caption: "While public trips destined to the usefulness and pleasure
of all, the Administrative Council (The city) put them under the protection of citizens. "There
is in these words admirable simplicity, of which the Genevans are very worthy, a theory teaching
or deep and universal moral and political, economic and social legislation and historical philosophy.

If
the Geneva Village ethnography explains the predominance in him and in all its manifestations
literature, French language, his political genius, industrial and
social institutions correspond to a curious amalgam of different elements.

European migrations of people superiors, attracted to Geneva by the freedom that the Republic guarantees
in times of universal despotism (but the old distinction of five classes of Geneva) have With
it the blood and genius of other peoples, so that the names abound German, Italian, English and
even Spanish, and the types of different races, more or less confused. This gives a remarkable
Ginevra cosmopolitan character. Nowhere is there more so obvious that the phenomenon of social
physiology - so prevalent in the world and almost HOWEVER long forgotten by history - the moral transformation
of a race almost solely by virtue their institutions.

City at one time reduced by the needs of defense, the insulation material within its ramparts and
fortresses, Geneva has become cosmopolitan then - all shelter idea of ??every man proscribed and
persecuted - welcoming all the good of civilization, practicing resolutely
democracy, penetrating all spheres of intellectual activity going
to look up in the New World, the modern formula of penal philosophy.

Essentially Race French by origin, language and traditions, the people have the qualities
Geneva without the shortcomings of French genius. It has the spirit of research, analytical simultaneously
and generalizing the trend cosmopolitan aspirations, feeling artistic, literary and generous to a large
extent, and not a little of that cheerfulness expansive and elastic, this power assimilation, which
distinguishes the French.