 

Since, finely released prelate returned with him to Seville, where to August 15 1711, made
profession of four votes.

From this it started again without wanting to Cadiz receive any of the present and delicious
the illustrious Mr. Levanto offered in acknowledgment of how much he had cooperated with the
Ministers of the Republic of Holland to his Lordship was restored
to his freedom.

Admitted only a few booklets of devotion, useful to introduce, even
people of little or no consciousness, feelings of Christian piety,
and to increase the esteem and reverence of Queen of the Angels, who
was very devoted.

Made himself sailed to December 27 the same year of 711. And even in this second navigation was with
colleagues captured by the English, who fired a cannon ball to ask flag, got hit very close
to where you came Fr Blende, that others are prevented for death, if it were to break, so that
all haste to be prevented the weapons, and even in this case, in which troubled all the danger
of death, went into continuous shock and surprise, he, with an angelic face serene, having
driven them all Jesuits and others in his position, men and women, who had fled to House of Santa
Barbara, general absolution, he was very slow to hear confessions
some that might confess.

At this time it was recognized as the perpetrators were British, that
when they came to our captain, they did show the passport of Queen
Anne he had, and they let free ships.

Caminóse then with various fortunes, and P. Bartholomew was charged Fr Attorney General Francis
Bourgeois, care of the novices, as it had done the time they were held in Cadiz, and was always
with them guts and true tenderness of a mother, not only in his spiritual progress, but even
in the body relief, so that to be soon to assist their needs, gave comfort to come to the Camera
stern, and wanted to live with them in Santa Barbara, very uncomfortable place and that rare
sometimes repaired left to cool wind in the Plaza de Armas, content only with conortes delights
and Sky, who never lacked, spending most of time in continuous and
close union with God.

Come to Buenos Aires to April 8 next year of 712 and waiting there a few months doctrines craft,
spent on them, with four of their conmisioneros, by order of P. Visitor, Antonio Garriga, to
the Missions of the Guarani, not without pain and sense of his novices, who wanted to enjoy him
for a longer time and take it a hallmark of Indian Jesuit, to copy itself such mighty and so great
virtues that are necessary to who in a strange country and among
people as barbaric by nature and vice, should exercise the office
of the Apostolic preaching.

What worked then in the service of God and of souls in those reductions can not easily say,
but enough can be surmised, that among many, on the other hand most worthy, was chosen by fellow
Apostolic P. Arce for discovering the port of Itatines, where scale is hiciese communication
with Missions the Chiquitos, and to observe the will of nations cincunvecinas
to the law of Christ, in whose company he died happily.

Truly man of virtue and talent, that much was expected for the exaltation of Faith, God, from
heaven ordered things of the earth, just the opposite of what we achieved our short trial,
he had not deprived of Paraguay, shortly after he was given and llamádole
to receive eternal rest when he was with strength and vigor to work
for many years.

He died in 715, do not know the day, but it is believed his death
was the last of November, at age 40 and 21 of religion, which had
come to 1. st October 1694.

CHAPTER XVIII

Founding a new and Fr Reduction Juan Bautista de Zea undertakes the
mission of Zamucos.

It is time we return to tie the threads of the story, interrupted
this long, well than useful digression, and first to give a view to
the reduction of San Juan Bautista, then move on to talk at length
about the trabajosísimas Missions undertaken in recent years to the
glory of God and the good of souls, the Apostolic P. Juan Bautista
de Zea.

We said in Chapter XVI how to address the lack of subjects had been
extinguished two peoples, and one dedicated to San Juan Bautista,
but by this time returned to start another with the same dedication.

Habíanse
therefore added to St. Joseph and number of Morotocos Quies, and to
maintain as much people was the homeland a bit sterile, and short
crops, and it was therefore necessary to divide that town and look
elsewhere to fund it rather than a new one