 Deputies and the Academy of Jurisprudence and Legislation

Plaza del Príncipe Don Alfonso, no. 8, Madrid.

ALVAREZ DE ARAUJO AND NECK. Homeopathic Medicine Directory Year .-- I. - Contents: 1. º prologue
the author, 2. No dates that recall key events in the life and scientific work Hahnemann 3. º Madrid
urban hygiene, 4. No country life, compared with that of large populations under the hygienic
point of view, 5. No human longevity 6. No notes for history of Homeopathy in Spain, 7. º some news
about the state of Homeopathy outside Spain, 8. º aphoristic exposition of the doctrine of
Hahnemann Medical 9. No objections commonly are made to homeopathy, and its refutation, 10. º
why the action of drugs homeopathic, and how physically show, 11. º some concerns about the
value characteristic symptoms - by Boenninghaussen, 12. No manual of materia medica, or be Summary
of major pathogenic effects of 45 drugs (new) with indications clinics.
Madrid, 1862.

An atom in 8. º, 16 rs. in Madrid and 19 provinces, postage paid.

Arostegui.

Method abridged condom instruction and homeopathic treatment Cholera-epidemic morbidity, Madrid,
1854. A brochure at 8. º, 4 rs. in Madrid and 6 provinces postage paid.

Boenninghausen. The sides of the body, as also the affinities of drugs. Studies homeopathic. Work translated
from German into French by Ph. de Molinari, individual Societies homeopathic medicine in Paris,
Belgium, Holland, and other scientific societies.

Poured French to Castilian, Dr. JPH. Ant Alvarez-Peralta, individuals in society Hahnemannian
Matritense, the Philanthropic Society of Paris-magnetic, etc. 1857. At 8. º, 4 rs. Madrid and
5 provinces, postage paid.

CHARGE. Homeopathic treatment, preventive and curative Cholera epidemic; instruction popular
guide that can serve in the absence of a doctor. Translated from French by Dr. D. JMG Barcelona,
??1854.

A booklet in 18. No, a real in Madrid and 2 in the provinces, postage
paid.

CHEPMELL. New Manual of Homeopathy home, reduced to its true
limits, with some instructions on diet and regimen, translated from
the fifth edition under the direction DJ Sanllehy. Barcelona, ??1856.
An atom in 8. º, 12 rs. in Madrid and 14 provinces, ex- note.

CROSERIO.