 Upon entering the room with the patient encountered Duke, who
will face looked sullen.

- You arrive on time! You arrive on time! - Growled softly. And he walked away without another
word.

Clementina thought he noticed in these words malicious intent and bit his lip in anger. The sad
scene offered his view, just approached the bed of Ms Carmen managed to briefly shut down their
hatred. The unfortunate lady was showing on his face signs death, deathly pallor, the taper of the
nose, eyes glazed over and around of them a dark circle, purple. At his side and stood the priest
who urged to repent. (What?) At the foot of the bed, Marcela, her former maid, cried hiding
the face with his handkerchief.

Two other servants watched from far away with frightened faces, rather than sore, that pitiful picture.
There in a corner the doctor wrote a prescription.

On seeing his daughter, the duchess turned her eyes toward her and
extended expression of anxiety a hand to call.

Come, my dear - "His voice was quite clear.

And after taking his hand went between both of his yellow, emaciated, terrible exclaimed looking
at her steadily in the eye

- I die, my dear, I'm dying!

Is not it true that you feel it? ... Why at least not you glad?

- Oh, Mama!

- Say that you are happy - eagerly insisted without removing his gaze
from the eyes of the young.

- Mom, for God's sake - he said it stunned
and terrified at the same time.

- Say that you're happy! - Repeated
with even more power lifting at the expense of great efforts head,
staring hard.

- No, mother of the soul, no! If I could preserve his
life at the expense of mine, I swear to you that I would.

The large opaque eyes of the dying softened. He put her head on pillow, and after a short silence
and a muffled voice said hesitantly

- It would be ungrateful ... yes, very ungrateful .... Your poor mom loved you so much! ... Give
me a kiss .... Do not cry .... I feel let the world .... What hurt
me is that you, my daughter heart ... you .... What a horrible thought!

I have suffered much!

The priest brought at the time asking her to leave the worldly thoughts.

The sick listened humbly, devoutly repeated the prayers that she read aloud. The doctor and the
Duke came to put a shock, but noting that began rattle, the doctor made a gesture and grabbed
his arm to duke it out outside the stay.

Ms Carmen cast a haggard eyes, glassy, ??and all of them and stopping them in Clementina beckoned
again one approaching.

- Farewell, child - said without looking at her, his eyes fixed on the ceiling -. You do well to
rejoice of my death ....

- You say, Mom! - Said that with a cry of horror.

- It's good ....
I am glad that my death serve you something .... If I could give you
in life that I belong ... have given you everything .... It's sad
right?

... Have to die to make you happy .... I would have enjoyed seeing you both happy! ... Farewell,
my dear, goodbye ... ever remember your poor mom ....

- Mother of my soul - shouted the lady fell down and bursting into tears -. I do not want I die, no!
... I've been very bad ... but I've always wanted ... and I respected ....

- Do not be silly - said the dying woman in an effort to smile and
stroked her head with skeleton hand -.

It does not hurt to gloat .... Who cares? ... Die happy knowing that you will owe me some happiness
.... I recommend the old ladies of asylum .... Protect them, my daughter ... Marcela is already good, too
.... Bye bye all .... Forgive me the evil I have done ....

Rattle grew, sounded more strident and more grim by the minute. Clementina's sobs and cut at
intervals Marcela notes that snoring fatal. Duke, trembling, altered, drag it left the end of the
room.

Ms Carmen did not speak again. His eyes closed, mouth slightly open, the body alone. From time
to time up a little eyelids and looked affectionately at his stepdaughter
kneeling.

The priest read a nasal voice, plaintive, the prayers of his book.

Thus died the Duchesse de Requena. Leave her, let her go!

Some days later, Clementina and her husband, despite the professed unquenchable hatred, held long
and frequent conferences. The great question of inheritance temporarily united. Clementina
morning and afternoon visiting his father. Osorio also often went to the palace Requena. Either
the old thousand attentions lavished, pitied her solitude, her spoiled. There was some familiarity
affectionate behavior that fits very well with some children that
will protect the venerable old age of a parent.

The Duke was left watching worship with that sly look more tenderly. When they returned back to
leave, followed him with eyes, lowered his eyelids slowly, stirring
between his lips and the American fig sketching in his face was a
grin that lasted even a few seconds after of out of sight.

Things continued in the state before. Despite the will of the Duchess was strict, Salabert
did not deign to speak a word of interest. Continue to have their chief flow delivered to business
with absolute confidence.

His daughter and her husband lost it to see this attitude. Began to live rough, to communicate to
every moment with violence impressions, to form plans to bring an
explanation.

Clementina Osorio claimed that you speak. This thought was she who had kindly ask for an explanation
before from making a complaint.

After several days of hesitation, finally decided the wife to address
a few words to his father, though with some hesitation and pregnancy,
he knew the character of this and better yet your own.

- Let's see,
dad - he said, finding him alone in the office, with affected gaiety
-.

When I talk about money?

- What money? ... Why? - Duke responded with surprise, looking at her face so innocent that made
you want to slap him.

- Why should it be? to find out what concerns me.

Am I not the only universal Mom's heir? - replied without leaving the jovial tone, but with some
alteration in voice well perceptible.

- Ah, yes - said the Duke, making a hand gesture of indifference -. We will discuss later ...
Much later!

Clementina turned pale. Anger made her jump to her blood. His lips trembled and was about to
say nonsense.

- It would be nice, however, we understood we ...-- murmured faintly.

- Nothing, nothing, not talk now. When you have time and mood and I will deal with those things.

He
spoke with such confidence and indifference not without contempt, that his daughter had to choose
between give free rein to the tongue, to break with his father in a violent way, or leave. Decidióse,
after a moment's hesitation about this. He turned on his heels, and without a word goodbye left
the room and got into the car, in a state of excitement that shook whole body.

When he got home he ran to lock herself in her room and gave out the fury that seized. He cried, kicked
and tore his clothes, broke a piece of junk. Osorio also mounted angry and said he would do
and events. All this was not, however, rather than a letter that, with enough respect, his father
invited him to manifest the state of their finances, to kick off early trading inventory. Salabert
did not answer this letter. We wrote another.

Neither. They stopped to visit. Clementina did not want go "not to make a scandal." Osorio
was not considered sufficient moral force, since the state of their marital relationships, with
power to claim the wealth of his wife. In this predicament talked to some friends of the Duke
of respect, and sent them as medians. They fulfilled their task: they spoke with the old, and after several
interviews resolved to bring about a friendly meeting so that the
case go to court.

Efectuóse this, after some resistance by Clementina, in the palace of father. It was attended,
besides stakeholders Ortega's father, Count Cotorraso, Calderon and Jimenez Arbós. The latter (which
had ceased to be a minister and was in opposition) opened the meeting broaching a speech "conciliatory
tone" excited to Concord for not giving the public the spectacle of a dispute between father
and daughter money issues, show that, given his high position in the world, could not to be repugnant.
Followed him in using the word Father Ortega, who with persuasive accent and unctuous that characterized
him, after giving them, like the Duke to their children a good crazy praise soap to put soft,
appealed to his Christian feelings, they This was a bad example that would, I painted the sweetness
of love and sacrifice mutual and concluded by promising them eternal glory.

Clementina said the first she had no other wish than to continue to hold with his father the same
relations of affection and respect than before, and that to achieve was willing to do whatever was
possible. The hard, dry tone that gave these words and the scowl that accompanied them did not
provide clear evidence of his sincerity.

However, the duke said so moved.

- Arbós! Father! You, my children! Everyone knows my character perfectly .... For me, outside
the family there is no happiness possible .... After the terrible blow that out of suffering,
the only thing I have left in the world is my daughter .... Here I have concentrated all my love,
my hope and my pride .... I worked for her, I fought tirelessly,
have met I own the capital .... I can say I've never felt the need
for money rather than my woman (God rest his soul) and my daughter
..., by viewing them happy being surrounded by and luxury .... I always
have enough to live four quarters, as you know.

Today I am old, more so .... What do I and millions? Soon I will be forced to take the train
to another neighborhood, eh, Julian? And thou likewise. Consequently, to whom may come up
that I will fight as a matter of pennies to the daughter of my heart ... Here there has been
more than a mistake. I needed time to clarify my issues .... That's all .... But if you have
thought otherwise, my dear, I can only tell you this .... What's
in this house is yours and always has been.

Take it whenever you want .... Take, daughter, take it .... I simply
nothing ....

As he uttered these last words visibly moved, his eyes
wanted arrasársele tears.

All samples were also of emotion and burst into phrases conciliation.

Ortega's father Clementina gently pushed into the arms of his father,
and although she was less agitated, he finally stopped hugging him,
that was a good time tight.

When released it took the handkerchief to her eyes and sank into
a chair, beaten by the weight of so much emotion.

After this no one dared to remember touching scene of interest. The meeting broke up tightening
all hands cordially and warmly welcoming the success of flattery
his efforts.

But Clementina Osorio and his car ran into serious, frowning, and no talked all the way a word.
Only when I got home the wife whispered accent angrily

- We'll see how to play!

Osorio shrugged and replied:

- I give it by sight.

Neither is wrong.

The Duke and gave them a penny again or talk to any of the inheritance. He was very affectionate
with them: They did eat many days at home, complaining of loneliness,
until he spoke sometimes businesses that were pending, but nothing
to settle their share share.

Clementina became irritated as abruptly left to go home. Mediate again cards. They could not
get more than answers ambiguous, vague hopes. Finally decided to sue, and began a lawsuit that
shook with joy to the curia.

Clementina stopped for all happiness. Thereafter he lived in a state of perpetual irritation,
following with eager interest the incidents of the case, draining the attorney, attorneys,
seeking to counter the powerful influence of the duke. This led the matter with much more calm, I
tangled with skill desperate, taking advantage of the violence she showed to make it appear
in the eyes of society as ambitious and unnatural. This did not prevent that its intimate let
go once in a while one of his derisive phrases and cynical, that
it reached the ears of popping fury.

The fighting was doing increasingly fierce. On the other hand, creditors Osorio, disappointed in their
hopes, began to turn against him and threatened to leave him ruined.

It is easy to represent the agitation, violence, unrest that would prevail in the hotel in the
Rue de Don Ramón de la Cruz.

This discomfort, and may even be said unfortunately, involved the then lucky Raimundo. The spirit
and the body of Clementina, disturbed by the tumult of other passions, could not resting in the sweetness
of love. The moments that you gave it became increasingly short and restless. Talks became extinct
happy, boisterous, which once maintained. The beautiful lady and did not like to tease her young lover.
He could not remember even those joyous, childish scenes in which they delighted, now making
it to queen court receives their ministers and kisses playing cards or in a thousand other trifles
that he set to adolescence. Now just could talk about anything but their lawsuit. Her nerves
were so excited that with the slightest word was fired and mounted in furious anger. Furthermore,
given the vehement interest in his father's success, growing their Escosura flirtation with
newly appointed minister. This was, as it should be assumed that most was unfortunate the
young entomologist.

One day, he was more affectionate than usual, sitting at his feet holding him and stroking hair
with her beautiful, delicate fingers loaded with rings, said in his sweet accent:

- You continue with your jealousy of Escosura. Eh, World? ... As you do really bad .... I do not
like small or great man ....

- Yes, that I've said many times ... but ....

- No buts about it, wayward child - said happily tugging at the ear -.

Nor have I loved, I can not love anyone but you. All men seem to me ugly, stupid and presumptuous
by your side .... But (here comes my but!) Unfortunately you're not
a minister, but deserve more than anyone I know .... You know that
my fortune is now in the hands of justice, that of overnight I can
get without a peseta.

Accustomed as I am to the amenities and luxury, and understand that
it would taste a dish.

My self-esteem would suffer also much: I have infinite envious people
who hate me without knowing why .... In short, it would the laughing
stock of them, right?

And I do not want that to happen.

My father has many friends .... expected of him favors (but is unable to make one), people are afraid
of .... Although I try to almost all politicians in Madrid, I lack
a true friend who interested in my case as if it were their own, who
dares to stand in front of my father .... And I have not need to look,
you know ... Imagine now that the friend is Escosura, who for their
political position and his money is completely independent .... Imagine
that I'm in a relationship with him .... Think of it as my lover in
the eyes of the world .... And just think also break you in appearance,
but secretly still follow my true love the only dear to my heart ....
How about the settlement?

Do you find it acceptable?

Raymond went on to that unique and humbling proposition. It took a while to answer and finally
said between angry and dismissive:

- I think simply a disgrace and filth.

Wrinkle, wrinkle that fatal crossing the front of Clementina whenever anger waving his troubled
soul, appeared deep and sinister. Rose sharply, and after looking at him intently, between angry
and dismissive, he said with emphasis glacial:

- You're right. This arrangement can not convenirte .... Better once we cut our relationships.

And
be ready to go. Raymond was shocked.

- Clementina! - Cried inconsolably when she was already near the door.

- What? - She said, as coolly, turning his head.

- Listen for God, a time .... I told you so carried away by jealousy, but with no intention to hurt
.... How do I offend you when I love you, love you like a supernatural being? ...

To these were followed by many words fiery love-soaked, even better, of devotion. Clementina heard
them in the same arrogant attitude. He was not soften until it looked While humbled knees
asking, as a precious favor, that same arrangement was had described a moment of infamy and
filth.

In those days the lady experienced a tantrum so vivid they almost sick. And was not without reason.
The Duke, his father, whose relations with Amparo were increasingly
public and brazen was cynicism or humiliating servitude to bring her
to his palace and make her marital life.

There was no talk of anything else in Madrid's high society. All Salabert the world believed
that the brain was disturbed, if not, as formerly, I was bewitched by his mistress. This, with
its inveterate stupidity, instead of hiding power and be forgiven in the world this unprecedented
usurpation, proclaiming with sound of trumpet in theaters and rides, where there was the Duke on his arm.
Soon after he began Madrid to circulate the news that they married. The astonishment and indignation
that occurred were vivid.

An unforeseen event came to undo or at least postpone that wedding. In some meeting of shareholders
of the mines of rivers, Salabert, as president, he had to account
their management and propose necessary amendments in the functioning
of society.

Ordinarily it was with great concision and clarity.

It was, above all, a businessman and did not like beating around
the bush or say more words than necessary.

But to the surprise of the assembly, where were many bankers and some political figures, began to
deliver a speech in style. Leaving the matter entirely, giving full explanations entered of
his conduct as a public man, drew a true biography of him, stopping in completely irrelevant details,
with the greatest impudence sang his own praises, offering himself as the prototype of the
political consequence of selflessness and devotion; touted his services
to the country, having borrowed money from the government in times
of trouble, and the cause of humanity contributing mightily to the
building of hospitals, schools and nursing homes.

He even had the nerve to say that the nursing home of the Four Roads
was his work.

Bystanders looked at each other in amazement and whispered in his ear bit trials flattering on
the intellectual status of the speaker. When he drained the list of merit and proclaimed urbi
et orbi the first man in the nation, began to break out against their enemies. Presented himself
as a victim of persecution tenacious, insidious, a thousand intrigues to discredit and where
a portion of characters involved in banking and politics. In confirmation of this statement
read Campanula and fiery voice intonation certain items embedded in a newspaper of the province
(the province where the mines were Riosa), which according to him
attacking him "in a manner unworthy and disgusting."

What I was saying, in short, the writer, Salabert was that it was not to be entitled to erect
a statue.

Bystanders increasingly tired and bored, and said quietly:

- This is ridiculous! This man is crazy!

As I read it was rousing. His face, usually a bit bruised, darkened
so that it resembled that of a strangled. At last, unfinished reading,
fell in the chair in a fit which deprived him of sense. And both of
nature brimming way instantly began to unburden himself of so formidable
a way that only a doctor who attended the meeting as a partner dared
approach him.

XV

# Genius goes off. #

After that attack, the mental
faculties of Duke experienced a considerable decline, to say how he
approached. Suffered strange distractions. His word was lazy and more
confused than before. He was fantastic whims. It was said that he
had already handed over to the Under enormous sums or had put his
name in the Bank, which angered by light reasons and shouting and
gesticulating like a madman, coming to mistreat his outbursts work
to the servants or dependents, he ate voraciously and without measure,
and who said of his daughter horrors unimaginable, impossible to repeat
among decent people. His genius and cunning evil had turned to grim
and violent.

However, businesses gave no sign of lack of sanity.
The wheel of greed had not been spent yet in your body. True that
most of them marched alone themselves. Llera also had with him, whose
feats of speculator astute and daring had reached the peak. Where
they actually showed the disturbance, or rather the weakness of intelligence,
was at the heart of domestic life. Not content with making queen and
mistress of the house to his mistress, but she also admitted the mother
and sister, people ordinary foul that was taken by assault, giving
slave fills Saturnalia, living in a perpetual orgy