 

But not everything is cakes and fancy bread in this vale of tears, and when I was more confident
Dona Feliciana that her husband thought of nothing but win pelucones, received a letter Ica
that the reported anonymously, with semi-colons, of how the Lord Messiah had its chichisbeo,
and how he spent the cake and eat it with the subject, and that the above was not worth an
icicle not reached the bottom of the shoe of Dona Feliciana, although it retained enough jamona
palatable and not worthy of the rogue of her husband hiciese squeamish. He said the chicken
of a tale: - Place egg and do not eat wheat, that's not me.

The anonymous bump up in the spirit of the lady, and got to think about infidelity Mr Mesia, and
so much buzzed in his soul the gadfly of jealousy, he decided to take flight, the neck to drop
you catch him in the perjury and gatuperio. But the case was to go in the time, to Ica spent
many days and ran many dangers, and the holds no could be closed or the mercy of a dependent, resolvióse
to sell, commission charged a Spanish called Vilches, who was her
friend and her man to be trusted.

At that time the transactions were very speedy, as it is unusual that many formulas, and before
forty-eight hours Dona Feliciana saw come through the doors of his
house some bags of a thousand.

Ms. Vilches gave one in return for their activity and Travel freed
from hindrances enlisted for three days later.

II

Dona Feliciana That night began their accounts and decided that God just daybreak, was deposit
their money and goods in the house of a merchant proverbial honesty. But his jealous ruminations
on the one hand, and secondly their calculations rentier, sleep it away, and it had no small fortune.

It
was about two o'clock, when cats and thieves, when he felt a slight, cautious sound of footsteps
in the backyard.

He listened and was convinced that a door that in his bedroom were not applying what technicality
of pharmacy, but of the children Caco, was then called a sucker. This experiment was open
through burning a hole in the wood.

Doña Feliciana promptly jumped out of bed, and a corner of the room took a pole or rod stick
to which a pointed end adapted rejoncillo iron.

This was the weapon that used to take the field all landowners.

Thus forewarned, our heroine is laid in ambush behind the door.

Just let the cup was expeditious a big hole, he looked out a head.

Doña Feliciana, who lives without giving him rejoncillo stabbed in the neck.

The thief gave a cry of death, and his companions set foot on the wall. Then Mrs. he cried, alborotóse
the neighborhood, went the round, and found dying universal surprise
the honest Vilches, who sang background and colleagues reported their
company.

III

All languages ??were Dona Feliciana courage, and in Lima did not talk about something else.
Had there been newspapers, have set chronic loud bass drum on the local.

The fame of his exploit had preceded Ica, where he arrived one morning,
armed with spear and spear, and doomed to her husband told her:

-
A Lima, sir, and your home if you want to do another little person
in both I have done in the de Vilches, and leave it as not to serve
or radish seeds.

The Mesia trembled like quicksilver, he had saddled the mule and, without hesitation or mister,
obeyed precept.

Since then she wore pants in the house, and he was the most faithful
of husbands stories that mention the sacred and profane, as I knew
it was the fleece in the first trip where you get it madam.

Long story is to have a woman companion of horn and spear.

MAYOR'S ARGUMENTS

I

It seems that one morning he got Carlos III with mother's mood, and
frankly that there was reason embittering fed to the spirit of the
monarch.

His Majesty had dreamed that the royal coffers ran the risk of being as God loves the souls, ie
clean, because his subjects Americas walked one, if not to provide them slackers.

- Carrampempe! Well, I do not have to spend far as Henry the Sufferer that, attaching be king,
and the stiff, arrived day had no solid thing to put under their noses, and pawned his overcoat
for the cook could flavor a garlic soup and a piece of boar smoking. I called Don Jose Antonio.

And
Don Jose Antonio de Areche, Council of Indies and gentlemen of the distinguished Order Carlos
III, soon to appear before the King, and spoke with him at length about the atrenzos the royal
treasury.

And following the conversation between lord and vassal, we fell as rain in these kingdoms of Peru,
in 1777 and the title of Inspector-General, a soap opera of fines.

The visitor, soon come to Lima, he became convinced that the land was very rich and the committee
and tasty porridge. Item guessed it, without being a witch, that were tame genius Peruleros
and, therefore, likely to bear much saddle his lordship would to throw us in tow. And thought and
deed, and without beating about the algórgoras or brujoleos, we came
to the lump and ordered taxes, and tight, and rates and what not henpecked
husband.

God forgive me, but have that, in anticipation of a wonderful town these days, was given a jolt
of establish canine contribution, not excepting the dog it San Roque, nor to Santo Domingo, or the
San Lazaro, or the Santa Margarita, as I gather, were saints mutts fans.

But as the cord stretched out in the end, came the burst, and burst
and all hell broke tremendous.

The visitor was stubborn, did not relent and continued to follow
an inch and a guitar pins others.

And there was that of zambomba and slaughter, at gallows, and jicarazo,
which ... Go! we take by special care and God bless you have not eaten
bread in that mess century.

Finally the end, rogues taxes remained and, grunting and grumbling,
there's pay anyone taking law in their neck, no ambitions put in intimate
relationships with the executioner.

While so rusty maravedises us out to his majesty, he couched his lordship from search all employees
who were handling public funds and would find such clutter and gatuperio in the consideration
of some bills, which he planted in the cooler to worshipful characters responsible of them. It
is well known that listening to the disclaimers which gave him an employee, said Mr boring
of Areche:

- Do you know, Mr. alcabelero, I do not understand their bills?

- Not surprisingly, Mr. Inspector.

I do not understand them, and that the accounts are mine.

Boy, would walk the bloody mess!

Among the prisoners found ourselves a magistrate, who said he had
been more voracious chyle leech to get the people whose government
he was entrusted.

The cause between proofs, witnesses, cross-examination, appeals and other forensic batiborrillo
of the mob, had traces of fabric to suit for three generations at
least.

Our man resolved cut through the shortcut, doomed to the jailer asked him to let him go boldly
for a couple of hours, on parole back to prison before the expiration
of the fixed term.

The jailer thought that the word of honor is not reserved for committed,
as on this garment does not unleash a usurer's purse strings, and
said flatly that odd.

But dazzled by the brilliance of some pelucones, you carelessly and carefully put between
hands the prisoner, eventually soften and run bars and open bars.

II

It was seven in the evening. Stood the Lord visited in her living room, casting a hand sitting
with some friends, and finally have a real set with gold only cases,
fails and dwarf king, when he entered his butler and, calling him
aside, said:

- A gentleman wants to talk at the moment with his lordship.

-
Any unwelcome!

Come back tomorrow. Did not he say his name?

- No, sir, but gave me two ounces of gold for message passing, and as it was decent await answers
in the hall, I did enter the study room.

- And you say he has given two ounces of Alboroque! Well, it has to be something of importance
that brings to this subject.

And turning to his gatherings, he said:

- Excuse me, gentlemen, I shall soon return, and Don Narciso play
for me.

It's life which I have been very battered, and not give it to my worst enemy!

And Don José Antonio went to the study, which was located in the backyard. Sitting there there
a muffled that at present Areche, was discovered and said politely:

-
Good and holy nights.

- This is God's. Hello, hello, sir!

What has been released from jail without my permission?

- It did not, sir Visitor.

I gave my word, and I will comply, to return soon to prison.

- I guess what you is ... to talk, no doubt, of their cause.

- Precisely,
Mr. Inspector.

- For time lost, my friend.

I see you in a bad horse, and with heavy heart I have to be severe, that the king has sent me to
walk with softness and contemplations.

In your case there are documents and witnesses atrocities beyond
reproach and whose statements are sufficient envelopes to send to
the gallows ten neighbors of his caliber.

I am very straight, and given If I do not administer justice or with the mother who bore me.

-
Well, Mr. Inspector, against everything he says his lordship is grave in my process I possess
a thousand arguments compelling, yes, sir, a thousand arguments.

And it is best to be friends and we stop fighting, which only serve
to bring uneasiness, and to raise bad blood fat broth scribes and
Pharisees.

- Why, if you so confident to be out gracefully, has not
made use of its arguments?

And would like to see one to refute.

- If the Lord visited me and keep my anger has not the secret, which strictly speaking diréle
are my arguments.

- Speak clearly and as Christ teaches. Present myself one of its arguments, and keep nine hundred ninety-nine,
which left no time or opportunity is there for it take care of them.

Then the sheriff put his hand in his pocket, and between the thumb
and the index took an ounce of gold.

- Do you see your honor this
argument?

- This is a pelucon, Mr. mayor!

- For a thousand arguments
of its kind I have ready to cut the process.

And good night, Mr. Inspector, that the hours fly and the word is the word.

And step between step, the mayor took the road to prison.

As the lord of Areche refer that back cogitabundo to take his seat
at the table triplet, which all night long did not play in order,
and that for the first time in his life, he committed two resignations,
clear evidence of the concern of his mind.

III

What demonche! I'm not cursing, but in the story are facts that bring to a crazy.

And proof that Don Jose Antonio de Areche did not play very clean,
they say, the performance of the committee that the King entrusted
him with, is that, despite everything, his majesty was forced to dismiss
him, calling him to Spain, confiscating the property, and sentenced
him to live exiled from the village and court of Madrid.

The day after the interview with the visitor, was released and dismissed the prisoner in the
case.

And keep your faith in the incorruptibility of justice!

I mean, if the boys would smoke a pipe, sheriff's arguments!

THE GIRL'S CRAVINGS

Belief was widespread among our ancestors that pregnant women should indulge even in its most
extravagant whims. Opposing them was equivalent to ruin the work
done.

Y Galen's disciples were the major contributors to invigorate this view, if we give credit to
many medical theses or dissertations, which printed in Lima in several years, can be found in Volume
XXIX Various Papers of the National Library.

His women are curious, and enough that they were forbidden to enter the cloisters Lean On all
walks convents. There was, therefore, in the last century to Lima would not travel from the cell
prior to the kitchen or abbess.

As soon as the family's daughter Eva was presented in an interesting,
little sisters, friends and even the maids were cast to fix agenda
for the month of pilgrimage to the monasteries.

And the best morning he appeared ten or twelve covered on the goal
of San Francisco, for example, and the most lively of them said, addressing
the lego porter

- Ave Maria pure!

- Conceived without sin.

What is offered, sisters?

- Let you go where the Rev. Father Superior and say that this girl, and sight is, is abultadita,
which has a fancy walking the convent, and that we come accompanied
by a job if it happens.

- But many a layman !...-- muttered under
his breath.

- We are all family: the good girl is his aunt carnal,
these two are her sisters in the face are known, these three gordinfloncitas
are your premiums by mother I and this borradita, nieces, Believe
it or not, the beyond, that black pork, is the mother who raised her,
this is your ...

- Enough, enough with the kindred, which is Larguita
- lego interrupted smiling.

Here the girl's fancy with a sigh, and who accompanied her said in
chorus:

- Jesus, my dear!

Do you feel anything? Prontito you go, brother, you get the license.

No tease and have a job here! Virgen de la Candelaria! Run you, man, you run!

And the goalkeeper was headed, step between steps, the guard cell, and five minutes after upper
back with the license, his paternity was not to antagonize the ogre insides desire pregnant.

-
You can put the girl's will with all the holy family.

And another lego assumed the duties of guide and Cicero

Of course, in many cases the stomach was sticking, that is, roll of cloth, but or guardian
or keeper could get to find out. For them it was vaulted belly passport in order.

And in the convents of friars went to the monasteries of nuns, and each returning visit home the girl
on the whim bearing flowers, cherries and apricots, scapulars and pills. The participating
comrades also of blessed bread.

And the procession in Lima lasted a month at least.

An archbishop, to stop the abuse and not daring to break away from usual provided that the capricious
Lima seek the license, not monastic authority, but of the curia, but as he had to spend on a
piece of paper stamped and signed application and return the next
day by the decree, started to decrease cravings.

His successor, Mr La Reguera, cut the root of the evil one no answer to the first round neighbor who
was with the effort.

- What if unfavorably, illustrious sir? - Insisted the candidate.

- That I do not understand, my dear, I'm no midwife, but archbishop.

And the good news is that there is a tradition that has aborted Lima not walk cloisters.

* * *

Among the manuscripts at the Royal Academy of History in Madrid, form
the collection of Matalinares, curious file documents relating to
America, there is one (notebook 3 º of Volume LXXVII) codex is just
an excerpt of a process that Peru gave reason the girl's whim.

Keeper of the Recoleta of Cajamarca was, for the years 1806, Fray
Fernando Jesus Arce, who, contrary to the archbishop and disciplinary
provision, given to allow the walk around Christian cloister to the
ground asked him the delicate ailment.

The authority was civil or did not do their reasons for seeking to heel, and armed process and fat.

Commissioner
General's father supported the father Arce, presenting, among other
arguments, the following that, in his view, was crucial and decisive:
- The conservation of the fetus is natural right and the precept of
positive law is closing, and the latter would not be considered charitable
exposing a woman to abortion.

Arce's father said to him was a matter of conscience consent to the whim feminine as once refused
to grant a license acontecióle that, three days, he presented the girl's fancy carrying the
fetus in a jar and blaming him for their misfortune. He added the father Arce that he had to
go another little soul in limbo, he was not with livers for an ugly pregnant woman cravings.

The
vicar foreign men was seen in a hurry to give his ruling, and requested
the opinion of Matalinares, who was the then prosecutor of the Audiencia
of Lima. Said Matalinares not the risk of the fetus, but corrupt and
considerations of convenience or privileges Apostolic for certain
persons of distinction, had tolerated the entry of women at close
of regular, and the cravings that was grid and concern. In short,
I ended view that it would prevent the father commissary general ordered
the guardian of the Recoleta pretext for any visits thereafter consented
to skirts, under the penalties designated by the Bull of Benedict
XV, promulgated in January 3, 1742.

The vicar, as authorized by relying
on opinion, ruled against the keeper, but this is not given by defeat,
and appealed to the bishop, who confirmed the decision.

Fray Fernando
Arce Jesus was headstrong, and said at first that they disregarded
the mandate come until the Pope himself, but his friend, the general
curator, got appease saying

- Reverend Father, better skill than
strength. For the question above all is self-love it will be safe
and not adhering to compliance.

Arce's father was thoughtful one
minute, and then sticking a slap on the forehead as who has been at
the crux of intricate matter, said:

- Cabalito! That's it!

And in
the act made formal renunciation of guardianship, and not for another
office with owl sending little souls in limbo.

THE GOOD FRIDAY Llorona

TRADITIONAL
ANTIQUE TABLE MANNERS

Existed in Lima, until fifty years ago, a women's
scribbled all pilongas to wrinkles and poor louse, whose office was
to whine and throw tears as chickpeas. What a bitch profession and
evil thing! What is unique is that every member was old as sin, ugly
as a gossip and quilted witches and hoodlums. In Spain dábanlas the
plañidoras name, but in these kingdoms of Peru are baptized with the
pain or crying