 Had
heard Ms Josefa all. Al loves it seemed as bad as the toilet that plan, and inside it called
"tangled and messy" to the pious, but it was felt that both taste to be relieved of it, he said
nothing and went through everything. It was always between those two rivalry easy to explain.
Obdulia occasion or not, visiting his confessor, watching domestic welfare, sometimes fixed the
clothes, others by sending a dish of rated. This angered an unspeakable way Ms Josefa. The
pair hated death. Said misdoing it everywhere, and harm, was about to commit several Sometimes
his master. No wonder, then, knowing all the ridiculous and dangerous to the loophole, the favored
encouraging P. Gil, allaying their scruples. He saw in it more than half forever be rid of that insufferable
wart had gone.

The first thing he did was ask the girl loves a bag to put her clothes on her confessor had the
need on the trip. Doña Josefa loft brought a bag at night.

- This is a very small lady. Here there is no room.

- How small ?...-- asked the mistress, amazed .-- Here it is clothing for a portion of days.
How long must be over there Mr. toilet?

- A little, little - he hastened to say with obvious embarrassment, blushing .-- But you see you,
on trips you never know what can happen ... Maybe lack of diligence
or the horses ... A disease ... Who knows ...

- Válgala God, lady,
do not stand to think about these things!

... I'll get another. For lack of case do not stay.

Between the two settled into her a few changes of underwear, slippers, combs, the breviary,
etc., etc. Since they had finished the task, not long or difficult course, sat Obdulia in the
chair of the clergy, declaring that he was really tired, that night
had barely slept with the anxiety that occurs whenever a decision
so crucial, and that would be good take a nap.

Ms Josefa allowed to stand quietly and went about their business.

When the bustle felt down there, through the kitchen, got up and began to examine with pleasant look
how many objects were in the room. All played with your hands. Particularly those of more immediate
use for their personal and confessor, as combs, pens to write, The lighters, etc.., were the
subject of attention for her vivid, anxious: they swam between your fingers with emotion, while
a tender smile and his lips roamed submissive. A Used collar lay upon a chair. He stopped in
front of him, lifted him up and looked around forward now and then, glancing timidly at the
door, his lips two or three times and left him where he was. He remained motionless a few minutes,
standing in the middle of the room, eyes on the empty, alienated by intense meditation. His eyes
became After a shining smile, and a wave of crimson light spread over her cheeks. Gave some foot
steps hesitantly and stood at last at the bedroom door. With an intense look embraced inasmuch
as it was. The priest's bed was small, white wood, white also the blanket that covered him, pillows
and fine linens, but no lace. It looked like the bed a schoolgirl. Obdulia gazed a long while,
as if he had ever seen anything more surprising. His face could see the signs of an emotion-friendly,
which he feels on entering the chapel where the relics are kept in
cathedrals.

It remained without daring to move a foot, the white face, eyes brimming with ecstatic joy as
if it were a warm bath scented. Suddenly he stepped back, ran to the door cabinet, opened
it a little and put his head and listened. Ms. Joseph was in the kitchen. The closed again and
again on tiptoe to the bedroom. He paused a moment and then advanced to playing on the bed.
She put on her hands. Her heart pounded in his chest tightly. Sank
down on his face, and very gently so as not to undo her clothes and
went extended, resting her head on the pillow