 Leonora was rich, with an admirable delicacy had avoided talking of money
to discuss travel arrangements, but he was not going to be an entertaining, did not want Salvatti
live like that exploded the youth of the artist. These thoughts were forces to take the money
and leave the house, but the train still lasted concern, and character, the deputy felt an instinctive
fear to see in the stations tricorn civil guard. Thinking paled in the wake of his mother
if by chance was aware of the spoils.

The confidence and joy revived when entering the hotel as if to enter into a place of asylum. He
found her in bed, her hair spread over the pillow like a golden wave, eyes narrowed, mouth smiling
as if surprised in the middle of a dream tasting her memories of love. At noon got up for lunch
in the room, pale, tired, proposing to undertake their journey as soon as possible. No more
mad, until they saw sense outside Spain. At dusk would come in the mail from Barcelona to the
border. And quietly as a marriage discussed in the quiet home pleasant details of material life, magazine
went objects necessary for the trip.

Rafael had nothing. Who had fled as fire escapes, with the first suit found to jump out of bed.
Much needed essential and thought go out to buy: a matter of time.

- But you're gonna go? - Leonora asked with some anxiety, as if her feminine instinct divined in danger
.-- Will you let me alone? ...

- Wait no more. I do not expect much.

They parted in the corridor with the noisy and careless joy of his
passion, without looking the waiters came and went at the other end
of the long hallway.

- Bye, Rafael ... One, one no more.

And when he came to the square, with the taste on his lips the last kiss, he still greeted from
a balcony, a hand covered with jewels.

The young man walked hurriedly.

He wanted to return as soon as possible, and quickly went by between
tag coachmen who offered their services as opposed to the great palace
of Dos Aguas, closed silent, asleep as the two giants that keep your
home, developing in the rain sun gold ornate splendor and gracious
rococo style.

- Rafael, Rafael ...

The deputy turned round on hearing
his name, and pale as in the presence of an apparition.

Was Don Andrew who called him.

- Are you here?

- Arrived in the mail from Madrid.

Two hours ago I look through all the hotels of Valencia. I knew you were here ... But let's go, we
need to talk, this is not a good place.

And cast a look of intense hatred of the hotel, as if to wipe the
huge mansion with all beings it contained.

They left, walking slowly, not knowing where they went, wandering aimlessly, turning corners,
repeatedly passing the same street, with concentrated thought, nerve
shaken, ready to scream and making efforts to make his voice was weak,
dull, and not to draw attention of passers-rozándoles the narrow sidewalks.

Don

Andrés began, as expected.

- Do you think well what have you done?

Seeing him appear cowardly attempt amazed, ensuring that nothing was done, who had come to Valencia
for a trifling matter, the old man angry.

- Do not lie, or are we men or are not. You must argue the fact, if you have figures done well.
Do not think I'll fool to run away with that woman, God knows where. I found you and will never
abandon you. I want you to know everything: your mother in bed, I, advised by her about what happened,
the first train out to meet, the whole house revolution believing in the first instant in a robbery,
and the city taking you in these languages ??may hours. What ...
Are you happy?

Would you kill your mother? For the kill ... My God! And these are men of talent! The gentlemen
to race! Much better than a brute like you were me or your father, no education, but knowing live
and have fun without commitment.

After carefully recounted what happened.

The mother having to visit your old furniture to make a payment to
the laborers, the cry of horror and alarm the house put in commotion;
the arrival of Don Andrés, hastily warned, the suspicion of domestic
fidelity, by reviewing all the servants, who cried indignantly protesting
until Dona Bernarda fell into a chair, almost fainting, he whispered
to his counsel:

- Rafael not home.

He's gone ... perhaps never to return. Guess what, he has the money.

And when put to bed sobbing mother and warned the doctor, he went to the to catch the train
station, and read in the curious glances presentiment of what happened,
how quickly joined this agitation revilers deaf to the House of Brull
Rafael higher in the first train, witnessed by some, despite precautions.

-
Rafael, Mr Deputy, are you happy?

... Do you want to laugh even more to their enemies?

The old man spoke with a trembling voice, seemed ready to mourn. The work of his life, large victories
won by Don Ramon, that political power so carefully polished and sharpened, everything was going
to break and be lost because of a slight boy, vehemently, that the worship a woman at his
feet threw his own and others.

Rafael, who at first felt aggressive, ready to respond with violence if the old fellow extreme
reprimand, showed himself somewhat softened and moved by the sincere grief of the man, no other
feeling that domination, like his father, as the cat resembles the
tiger, and almost weeping at the sight at risk the prestige of the
house.

Crestfallen, terrified by the image of the scene, after his flight, Rafael did not know where they
went.

He was surprised to suddenly a perfume of flowers. Passing through a garden, and head up the
sun was shining figure of the arrogant conqueror of Valencia on his wiry warhorse.

Continued. The old man spoke with an accent mournful of the situation of the house. That maybe
money in his pocket, more than thirty thousand pesetas, representing the last her mother's efforts
to shore up the family fortune, put at risk by genius of Don Ramón. His was the money, he had
nothing to say, I could splurge for the world but did not speak to any child, I spoke to a man
who had heart and just asked as his childhood preceptor, as his oldest friend, who thought of
the sacrifices of his mother, his exaggerated and tough economy, deprivation was imposed, dressed
habit at any time, fighting over a penny with the maids, despite its air of great lady, depriving
themselves of these goodies and gifts like so much in old age, especially for his master child with
a woman happily spend that amount of the gift speaking Andrew, with
respect, thinking about what it took to assemble.

Come on, man, who was to die for to see such things! ...

What if the father, if Don Ramón lifted his head? "If I saw how his son a love destroyed suddenly
so many years what had taken up? ...

Passing a bridge. Down in the dry riverbed, highlighting the red and blue spots a group of soldiers
and sounded the beating of drums and the humming of a huge beehive. Bellicose roar that accompanied
the evocation of the father with dignity made by the old.

Rafael I expected to see ahead of them this enormous body of fighting men, his big mustache his fierce
brow of a conqueror, adventurer born to lead men and impose his will.

- If Don Ramon saw this! ... He was able to give all his fortune for a woman, but had not taken
together the finest in the world in exchange for losing a single vote.

And his son, one offshoot in which he had pinned his hopes, the house intended to raise to
his greater glory, which was to be a character in Madrid, and at birth was the way Indeed, threw
out the window all the work of the father with the easy abandonment that is lost which does
not cost anything to win. Everyone could see that he had not known the bad times! The time of
the Revolution, when they were dropped and had to be enforced shotgun in hand, the desperate
electoral battles in which victory was achieved by passing over a dead bold gallops on the eve of
scrutiny, through the fields, wrapped in shadow at night, knowing that was ambushed near the
rut accurate rifle, which had sworn his death, the endless process of coercion and violence
that were living in perpetual anguish, expecting at any moment the final catastrophe, the
loss presidio of goods. All this had dragged his father for him to
carve out a pedestal for create you own district, opening the way
to go far, far away.

And he lost everything is stripped of power forever formed at the expense of years and hazards,
if that night did not come home, destroying with its presence the assumptions of people shocked.

Rafael
shook his head, moved by the memory of his father, convinced by the
reasons for the old, but determined to resist.

No, and no, the die was cast, he would his way.

Were under the trees of the Alameda. Carriages passed forming an immense wheel the center of the
avenue, shiny trappings of horses and the lamps of the bracket with
glare, seeing through the windows of ladies hats and white lace of
children.

Don Andrés was indignant at the tenacity of the young. Enseñábale those families, outdoor calm
and happy, walking in their carriages, with the quiet calm of an abundance sedentary and free
of emotions. Christ! So bad was this life?

Could live as well it if it was good, if not turned his back to duty, rich, influential, respected,
older surrounded by children, the only thing in this world may want an honest person.

All this love without hindrance or laws, the love that is stolen from
society and its customs, self-reliance and, disregarding the will
say, were lies of poets, musicians and dancers lost and crazy people
like the woman who snatched away, far away, breaking always with family
ties and his country.

The old man seemed encouraged by the silence of Rafael. I thought time to attack your love
boldly.

- And then, what a woman! I have been young like you, it is true that I have not met ladies like
that, but, bah! all are equal. I have my weaknesses, but I say that
for a woman like that had not lost even a nail.

Any girl that lies beyond the worth more. Long dress, very short, powders and paints a handful
... Not that I say that is ugly no sir, but the son, just need to go crazy, the leftovers of others!
...

And speaking of the past of the artist of that gallant and stormy
history, exaggerated by legend dozens lovers, her naked body reproduced
in statues and pictures, the look across Europe running on its beauty,
with the confidence that comes into your home, knowing every corner.

Go virginity to go crazy! And why would that conquers to lose everything?

The old man was afraid to see the tip of embers that ignited anger in the eyes of Rafael. Ended
through another bridge, came back into the city, and Don Andrés in
their misery of old malware and coward, drew back as if to hide behind
the box guards consumption, getting rid of the slap and saw cutting
the air.

The deputy, after a brief hesitation, he moved on, discouraged, downcast, without noticing the
old man who had returned to stand by his side.

Ah, damn! How well known was hurt! Leonora's past, her love split with mad generosity by the four
corners of the earth, all the people going about their bodies, domándola an instant attraction
to the elegance and the charm of art, her womb shivering in a palace today and tomorrow in a
hotel room, his mouth repeating in various Language those same words of love, broken by spasm, inflamed
him, as if it were the first to hear them. And why these remains that miraculously survived
even after the insane waste, could he lose everything, to flee leaving behind the scandal, discredit
and perhaps the body of his mother? Ah, don Andrés terrible! And how after got hurt fingers into the
bloody wound widening rift! The logic of the old flat and vulgar
his dream had vanished.

That man was the rustic Sancho malicious advised his quixotic father and his mission was now
near the child.

Reminded of a blow the whole history of Leonora, the confidences of his free time pure friendship,
when it had everything to prevent the follow forward. As much as worship she would just be
a successor to the Russian count, the German musician, or any love those few days, just mentioned,
but something had been left in his memory. A successor! The last one comes with a few years
late and is content in biting warm maturity that they knew with the freshness and gentle youth film!
The kisses that so deeply troubled him was something more than the touch of the woman was heady
perfume and sickness of all the corruptions and follies of the earth,
the smell concentrated a world that had run mad at her beauty as the
night birds crowded to the headlight.

Abandon everything for her! Running the land, free and proud of his love ... And in that world
would find many of his predecessors watching him with curious eyes and ironic; survivors of past adventures,
in his presence, undress with his eyes, guessing in advance the broken
sentences she had to say at night, the aberrations never satisfied
his passion.

The strange thing was that none of this had happened before.

The blindness of happiness ever left him thinking that he was not the first that passed through his
arms, that those words you rocked as sweet music could have been heard by others and others
before him ...

How long were on the streets of Valencia? ... His legs were shaking, I was faint, just saw.
The eaves of the houses were still bathed in sunlight, as he seemed to walk a groping in the
twilight.

- I have thirst, Don Andrés. Let us anywhere.

The old man headed to the cafe in Spain, his favorite retreat. He had the foot of the table
four clocks behind the Angel of Fame at the center of large square
hall, with its huge mirrors and gilded fantastic views, obscured by
smoke and light twilight falls high lantern like a huge crypt.

Rafael drank, not knowing certainly the contents of the glass, a poison that time froze heart. Don
Andrés gazed on the marble table with writing, the portfolio of broken
rubber and ink jar miserable, hitting them with the tail of the pen,
a pen coffee, greased, crooked toes, instrument of torture to despair
hand.

- Not an hour for the train.

Rafael, I know man, there is still time. Come and remedy this childish.

And he handed the pen, although not been mentioned in the conversation, the purpose of writing anyone.

-
I can not, Sir Andrew. I am a gentleman, I have my word and do not back come what may.

The old man smiled sarcastically.

- Be as you wish sir. It will be for that woman. But when you break up with her when leave you
or forsake you do not come back to Alcira. Your mother will not apply: I will not know where, and
the deputy did you you look like a thief who robbed and killed his
mother ... Rage, hit me if you want, and we look at the other tables
... gives a scandal in the coffee, not so cease to be true what I
say ...

In the meantime Leonora was growing impatient in her hotel
room.

Three hours had passed. To allay concern sat on the balcony, behind the green shutters, along with
distracted eyes over the few pedestrians crossing the square.

It was a reminder of the squares of Florence, surrounded by stately
homes, closed and imposing, with its paving stones from the sun burning,
including grass grows and wake from slumber to slow pace of a woman,
a priest or traveler, repeating his steps when they are away.

I looked at the old houses of the square, angle Dos Aguas Palace, with their board jasper coating
between the frames of foliage on the balconies, listening to talks of the drivers, grouped
in front of the hotel, around the owners and servants, all those mustachioed Italians who drew
chairs to the sidewalk like a village street.

Of then he glanced across the rooftops, which was retreating sunlight, increasingly pale and
softened.

He looked at his watch. Six. But where the man had gotten? Iban to miss the train, and to take
advantage until the last minute, gave orders to Beppa, meaning that everything was in order
and ready to go. Collected his toiletries, suitcases closed after question of his gaze wander
around the room with the restlessness of a quick game, and placed
in an armchair near the window, his coat on the road, hand bag, hat
and the veil to be addressed without delay or hesitation, just be
issued Rafael, panting and tired for the delay.

And the lover without coming ... Felt compelled to leave in search,
but where to find?

From she had not been in town, know the streets, could be crossed without knowing it to Rafael,
wandered as he waited in the hotel. Better to wait.

Just the day. In the fourth extended the shadow of twilight, confusing
objects.

He returned to the balcony, trembling with impatience, sad, like
the violet light is diffused by the sky, streaking, reflecting the
setting sun.

Would lose the train should wait until the next day.

A setback that upset the security of your flight.

He turned with a nervous motion hearing that was called from the door of the room

- Signora, a lettera.

A letter to her! ... The fever took the hand of the waiter, in the eyes vague and expression
of the girl, sitting on the suitcases.

His hands shook. The memory of Hans Keller, the ungrateful artist, suddenly emerged in his memory.
Sought a candle in her bedroom and eventually return to the balcony, looking at the letter in
the light of dusk.

His letter in the envelope, but portentous, painful, and torn with
effort.

He felt his whole retreat in the heart blood, read with the eagerness
of you want to rush to hit all bitterness and jumping lines, I guess.

"My mother was very sick ... I go there for a few days just ... my
duty as a son ... we soon see, "and the usual cowardly excuses to
soften the harshness of the dismissal, the promise to join her as
soon as possible; passionate oaths, stating I was the only woman he
loved in the world.

Flashed through his will in order to leave at once for Alcira although
was on foot; wanted sighted with Rafael, throw in the face of this
letter, slap, fight.

- Ah, the wretch!

The infamous! - Roared.

And the maid, who had just lit light, she saw her mistress pale with a white matte wide-eyed,
pale lips, walking upright with painful tension moviese or not feet, as if pushed by an invisible
hand.

- Beppa - moaned .-- gone! Let me! ...

The maiden flight insensitive to the gentleman, attending only Leonora,
guessing the next crisis, his eyes gazing Perky cow lady's face contorted.

-
The miserable! - Roared going from side to side of the room .-- How
mad I was!

Surrender to him, believe him a man, trust me your love, losing the peace and the only family
I rest ... Why not let me go alone? It made me dream of an eternal spring of love and leaves
me ... He played with me ... mocks me ... I can not hate him. Why me woke up when I was down there
collecting, quiet, unresponsive, in a selfish isolation?

... Liar, miserable ... But why cry?

... It's over.

Rejoice, Beppa; again to sing, we run the world, never return to
this place of all where I wanted to educate children.

A live!

A man trying to kick! Well! Well! As the worst of the animals! I laugh to think about my stupidity,
what folly, to believe in certain things! Ja, ja, ja!

And since the square is heard laughter. A crazy laugh, sharp, steely, which seemed to tear meat
and put in commotion around the hotel, while the artist, his lips foaming fell to the ground and
writhed angrily, turning the furniture, cutting himself with sharp metal your luggage.

PART THREE

I

- Don Rafael, the gentlemen of the Committee on Budgets
await your honor in the second section.

- I at the time.

And the
deputy remained bent over his desk in the office writing the Congress,
ending his last letter, adding on more to the heap of correspondence
piled up at the end the table beside the cane and top hat.

It was
the daily task, the heavy corbea pm, that he met with bored expression
a large number of representatives of the country. Answer requests
and inquiries, complaints drown and entertain the crazy claims that
reached the district, the endless clamor of the herd election, not
encountered the slightest obstacle without immediately go to deputy
as the devotee appeals to the miraculous pattern