 That
reminds us: he will not believe what has happened. The idea that marrying would feel unhappy,
it was his torment.

"Luis asked me if I love him: I do not know how to prove it.

"I think that both doubt, one of my happiness, the other of my love. They do not insist on ask
me for reassurance, but in their eyes, I read a secret anxiety, as
if they believe they hiding something.

All this because my husband is forty-four years! If I had thirty four, do not hesitate! ...

"What
a pleasure! What a pleasure! I have finally been persuaded of the truth to Louis. He had said,
on the trip, that this book was written my memories of the day I left school, and had promised
to give to read them. His desire was to know whether he was talking about, what said of himself,
what views had inspired me. When we returned from the trip, did not return to ask for the book,
and the other day, he spoke of it myself, I replied that I did not want read my diary. The
reason they gave me did not seem good: it said that I had trusted the role was not to be very
clear. The truth is that he still afraid to discover that I had not seemed quite young, I was pleased
recently. Then I begged him to sit listen to me, and started reading. When I got to the last
lines, I begged, eyes wet, which is the explanation.

The last lines, prior to our marriage, read:

"The Count's younger than Dad, is forty-four years. I do not know if I like it or I dislike.

"I know I have explained as best I could. Knowing that Dad was younger, I was sorry for my dad,
because saw his old age approached, but later, thinking that dad
had me, while his friend was alone, I consoled myself and I even thought
it was just younger, so he could marry well and raise a family.

"I Hugged me Luis! What eyes so cheerful! What words of love! I've never seen so happy, not the day
I gave the yes! Now she can not believe that forty-four years I seem too: it is up convinced that
the idea of ??marrying him should not be like as extravagant as he and Dad had feared. The
truth is that I found it quite natural, and although There was a time when I noticed that Luis
had two older than I, later reflected that age of men as there are no women. Indeed, who calculated
forty and four years to my husband? What matters is not age, are the qualities of the soul, and
Luis goodness I had this test: who is a friend of Dad. All he had heard two years of intimacy
showed me that their way of nodding was delicate, fine, fine, that
his intelligence was high and selective, their culture was wide and
deep.

"And now I understand that the issue is another. Luis did not fear therefore not sufficiently
Young, as unpleasant as a person, face.

"Well, if I considered stupid sometimes my habit of writing notes and, instead, on other occasions,
I have approved today, I think that was actually have written a fortune, because I was able, through
them, to convince Louis of what thought of him at that time. And I wish I had written it all
my detailed impressions that time, defying father in jest, took the trophy a foil and put on
guard! He was so good with the gun in his hand and shining eyes flashing like a sword; was so
strong and agile, which seemed to be truly a highlight of one of those novels Walter Scott
that I like both. I had not happened yet that I could marry him but I thought with pleasure
that the lady could be why the gentleman down to the sand. And if I knew what a pleasure of
another kind, not yet experienced, I felt when I posted that card that was called a joke: Provider
of His Grace the Marquesita Florence. On the card were our names together, like a bridal party,
it was written! Accurately thought even then that one day we could come together as we are now;
but I noticed, yes, our names were on the same piece of cardboard, it was he who had joined, I
had called His Grace, and I felt my heart pounding, with great force
...

"Ah!

If I had written it, Louis did not hesitate now. Little has failed to tell me, but I have not
said, in part because he was in one of those times of doubt, in part because I thought it would
be better to write in this book, where he will read it someday. Since I do not believe, do not
deserve to say anything: better entrust it to these pages, which are designed to disabuse. The fact
that he later write what I think does not mean that not true ... "

And below those words, characters thicker, more irregular, hand drawn with trembling, was written:

"Have
you read! He believed !...»

So those memories still filled with expressions of an inner joy, revealing a loving soul, candid
and sincere, than the judge Ferpierre was almost love.

Married the girl in those conditions, with a man who could be her father, was not expected to
give up happiness to burning, and get in the best case scenario,
bliss quiet, sooner or later feel disturbed by the idea of ??a greater
good?

...

Confessions of destroying the suspected dead. Ferpierre felt that if the narrator not have been
happy if he saw that he was mistaken when she married the Count d'Arda, I would sincerely confessed
completely, but once I felt something had recognized I could not write, and certainly would not have
declared roundly his deceit, may believe that, rather than guard it would have preferred not
to write anything, the silence would have been then more eloquent. But far from silent, far
from referring to his disappointment, he insisted on both demonstrations
of affection for the naive and passionate couple, the judge could
not doubt his sincerity.

On the other hand, was really amazing the love of a girl of twenty years by a man over forty?
Ferpierre, explaining it was not so much into account the moral qualities the husband, as the
physical conditions among the papers found at the home of the deceased had seen some photographs
of relatives and friends, two of which, according to Julia's statement Pico, was the Count:
the figure of the man was beautiful, strong and noble, and was so expression, the love of the
young wife was justified. And pages and pages not spoke only of him, concerned, proud, all the
evidence of love that gave her husband, transcribed his words love,
was glad to see that he believed in his love, knowing that his father
was sure of his happiness.

Another blank page again interrupted abruptly daily, and in which
there was no but that letter:

"Father, father, live!

Live for me !...»

And nothing else .. A Ferpierre he could hear the cry of the desperate plea from the head that
the dying father, exhaled loving daughter's chest. But in vain: on the next page had a lock
of gray hair, bound by means of two cuts in the sheet, and the margin a date: June 3, 1886. After
the book was full of reminders of death: Countess confided to pages his dearest memories of
daughter with a pain so sharp, but at the same time comforted by Christian hope, which seemed
certain paragraphs we still talk about his living father, and the
beginning of the book.

But the judge quickly ran these pages, looking forward to the drama that foresaw inevitable.

Was
it not inevitable that over time, with the age of the husband, the
happy quiet woman had an end?

How would you talk about temptation?

Not talking about it.

There was, however, in the newspaper, a gap larger than the previous the letter appeared, after
interrogation, further amended, and the sense of new annotations incomprehensible.

"... I'm sure.

All her words come back to memory. Then I smiled, lifted up to hear me, today I pay my pride.
But there are times I fear that the blame be mine. What would have
done it for me?

The culprit is certainly my ignorance, my inexperience ...

"Do not want or could not speak? Without doubt, would not could. Once asked, "But How? How have
you been? ... I hear it still answering, looking away: "Another day ..."

"In his view, the killing was not a bad unforgivable. Killing by failing to live was a vile; but
in other cases, the voluntary death was not for him to be condemned. Often discussed this problem,
and he showed me the world just to whom honor is subtracted from the death servitude, shame,
dishonor, to whom, to kill, save or help their peers.

Killing to be punished - was also said - is an act of justice ... "

Ferpierre uncertainty about the meaning of these words was short:
the thought the narrator was explaining page by page.

Countess believed that her husband had not died by accident but deliberately, that by finding a tremendous
death under the wheels of a train he had sought.

"People who were present said, and still say, they did not understand
how no had heard the screams all throwing, nor seen his desperate
gestures.

A those who suffered from dizziness in the last year, would be the explanation of what happened,
if I did not know ...

"We seize a mortal sadness. When asked the reason for this, I looked
so painfully as if afraid to lose at once.

One day, far away and when I first spoke of their single life, had
so much disdain in his words!

And the conviction of his deviation by order of the error, guilt, comforted him so much! ...

"But
goodness, it was severe, almost unrelenting for deviations of the
passions.

The ruin of a friend who had left his family seemed deserved, and not his death in loneliness
and poverty as inclined to be lenient with him ...

"I realized what was happening, but did not speak. I was afraid, afraid even to think.

"I am not sincere, do not say everything ..."

And Ferpierre, seeing that on the following pages not talk about the drama, was stopped after
more to ponder what I had read.

Between these two souls had suggested the temptation, but who had received was man, not woman!
The last words: "I am not sincere, do not say everything ..." meant " perhaps not accusing her
husband because she does not, for his part, he was clean of sin? Even if the judge with little
experience thought impossible, even though there already anticipated the day when the quiet
affection of a husband too old not sufficient to wife too young, the idea that the Countess
would have fallen repugnant. Had taken Ferpierre such affection for the deceased person to
read your story, looked so noble and pure, felt on every page of this confession so naive
sincerity, that the sense naturally the reluctance appeared justified. "I was afraid of thinking.
I am not sincere, I do not say everything ... "Do not think, at the time of writing these words,
the betrayal husband whom she had devoted all her love, betrayal of those who had doubted
his unworthy of possessing it believing love, who had promised to
dedicate her life to deserve it to preserve it, was it a serious fault,
and her undeserved punishment?

Do not think that the man had lied or had boasted of a force that was missing? If you also disturbing
about it had acted seductions, and had learned to tame them and away, it which in the opinion
of the world would have been more excusable to receive them, was it not natural to judge severely
weak man? All the pain that disappointment, that the science of unexpected bad until that day
were awakened in the soul of the wife, was expressed in that sentence:
"I was afraid to think ..." and Ferpierre, reading it again, stated
in its explanation acknowledged that the unexpected solution was logical
illogical, or at least inattentive to the background, he had been
to provide an opposite outcome.

Was it natural that the Count d'Arda, having taken up the forty-four year life of the wealthy bachelor
necessarily dissipated without feeling the need early a legitimate affection is permanently
reduced to the existence of exemplary husband and content with the innocent love of that girl?
What was unacceptable, unlikely that the love wife, ignorant of the world, to circumscribe
all the joy of life in your new state?

The details of the drama Ferpierre escaped, but it's rebuilt with imagination. Another woman, a
woman at all other than the Countess, had seduced Luis d'Arda: he had tried to resist being persuaded
to commit an infamous traitor to the girl, giving the example of evil, he, who was not only a duty
but also the interest, advised to follow along the right path which initially had been planned, but
the temptation had expired. What do you think should suspect the Countess, that he himself had
given the death? That his soul elevated attributed to the husband's decision to punish, as
it had been unable to avoid the error? Or does the romantic imagination of the young suicide
saw where there was only an unfortunate accident?

Mystery in the mystery, but it should remain impenetrable, as the seal of death had closed and the
lips of the two authors the drama. The tantalizing, if still living, was the only one that had been
made clear, but in truth not matter and that the Count, succumbing to guilt against his will,
he wanted to punish with death, and prevented a worse punishment, as would have been to see
the drop in life wife who had taught the way of evil, or even thinking about all this, his
death would have been by chance. Continued with redoubled curiosity Ferpierre reading of reports,
looking for what was most urgent.

After the quick allusions to the catastrophe, the magistrate found no more than descriptions countries.
The young widow took her mourning from place to place, on the Rhine,
the Netherlands, Scotland, and only in the latter reports were dated.

It seemed that just as the experience had been a premature maturity, his thinking and his style
had been strengthened equal proportions: some landscapes were painted
with sober touches, but vigorously, the Images were crisp and clear.

Here and there among the descriptions, he sketches in pen and pencil, views of landscapes, reproductions
of types, the hand of the artist was both time graceful and strong.

Here and there appeared some moral judgments unrelated apparent with the neighboring notes,
and showed that behind the calm exterior a concern secret tormented
author.

Thus, for example, said:

"I do not know enough to regulate our external actions, it would be necessary to guide thinking intimate.
"

Did he mean by these words, free and single, he was, despite himself, besieged by persuasion
tempting to which yet he knew resist? And was not tired so be it natural?

"The law of forgiveness is necessary, because evil is universal, and
without it no one could have hope of salvation.

"

Is it derived from the abstract idea of ??persuasion, or rather the conscience of any fault your personal?

Were
gradually coming into play other things: some pages are not read more than disquisitions about
the problems of life.

"The biggest injustice in the world: one is commendable that the proposed repair.

"There are two kinds of laws, of nature and the soul, and often the
ideal law is to operate against the printing materials.

At one time, this surprised me; not now. Get rid of the laws of nature is the highest needs
and the most noble efforts: the credit is to overcome the difficulties.

"Not many times, but always, there is opposition between the two kinds of laws, and in this life
can not suppress it, because nothing would exist without the effort.

This is the greatest test.

"Those who say it's silly to preach the equality of men because they are naturally unequal, do
not know they say a moral heresy. You might as well say it's silly to preach sacrifice because
selfishness is a law of nature. If love is ourselves our first real need to suppress and postpone
love for others should be the first ideal necessity. Men are different from birth, and this suggests
unpleasant truth the idea of ??equalization.

These are ideas that seem simple, but he describes them of rare. "

The increased attention of the judge at that point. That "he" would not the Prince Alejo Petrow?
Did not dating these arguments about the social problem, the time
when the two lovers had known?

The narrator seemed to answer the question Ferpierre became mentally since the subject of reports
varied from one page to another and abstract speculations passed most intimate confessions.

"No,
I had not yet experienced such an embarrassment.

I would deny it, but I can not. This anxiety, this fever, I was unknown.

"I once read that love is one, and I thought the writer was lying or mistaken, because I did not
think there is more than a way to love.

No: the writer was right. The effect then does not resemble the turmoil of today: Luis, who had
more experience than me, I knew and not content with what I gave him. I doubted my love because
I saw no impetuous and vehement. So, too, my father doubted my happiness.

"I doubt I too now?

"The clouds move over the tops of the mountains, taking strange shapes,
interwoven as tapes, stretch as veils: one side of the lake has disappeared
behind them, the waters no longer have any limit, as a gulf opened
up a mysterious ocean.

I still hear her voice. I'm happy ...

"I am happy. The flame spreads of one soul to another, as one face to another. His words are
as the breath of an inner fire. Could I hide my thoughts? What if I wanted shut up, would not
have read it in my eyes?

"When we believe in one thing we deny all others: when we experience a feeling know the mixed
feelings or just different. This is the first instinct.

I seems to be no more than a month ago I started living. The reason admonishes, the heart remembers.
That's another thing ...

"Yes there are several types of love, is
there a better, more desirable, more real?

Is it necessary the voice of reason is no longer heard, that all memories are forgotten, that
a single idea overcomes all need one another and break all the barriers? ...

"His laughter hurt me today.

Would not have wanted to laugh when he heard the story of an act
heroic.

As great as is your trust, is deep and bitter skepticism ... Who
has done so?

Life, he says.

"The greater the pity that I had to hear him laugh at himself.

When she laughs with that fake laugh, I think it would have torn
something in his voice, his heart ...

"If it is true that our feelings
live one by one and if we deny ourselves the who have died, feeling
that he is alive needs to believe eternal.

Here is the error. The happiness I felt for days seemed indestructible.

Today is not destroyed, but troubled ...

"What a pain!

What a pain! I would never have guessed so much misery, so much pain! This is the first time
that someone I trust! And still laughing!

I do not want ...

"Your letter of today has made me happy beat of ineffable. If it were true! If I had that power
!...»

With this expression of doubt again be interrupted daily, as if the narrator would like, before
proceeding, do some experiment. But in the back pages there was more
order in the confessions.

"Life is more difficult than I thought."

This
reflection was all that was written on a page, and farther, still
another question:

"So is it presumption to believe that one is right?"

After
a few phrases of dark.

"By no means, but like to wait ...

"It is
not weakness, it is not surprising: I've thought through, trust me
smile, I see the finish line ...

"Now I am lost for words ..."

Under
a date: "June 18, 1890" was written:

"Before God, forever."

And
Ferpierre was to clarify the meaning of those words, relating so to
reconstruct the intimate story.

What was the candle plant was confirmed:
the idea of ??doing good to the sick soul appeared Zakunine dominant
in the thinking of the Countess, with its softness and sweetness,
the law of attraction between opposites, would hold the impetuous
force, the rebel's indomitable ardor as sets out the gross wealth
which can extract a pure value. It was true that something simpler,
love alone, sufficient to explain the close relationship that had
formed between the two, and she gave an eloquent proof of his love
when he confessed that included the doubts of her husband and his
father about his happiness in the past