 

Our faces were getting livid ..... Clarity funeral, which was not like to the moon, but to the electric
light, beautifully lit city and the ruins Amphitheatre.

The clouds took a gray as ash. The darkening sea continued .....

And none of this seemed the evening !..... It was impressive to see that there, in regions upper sky
was still daylight, while the unfortunate land and atmosphere darkness
was rife.

Ie the light of heaven and came to earth!

Moreover, to the naked eye could not tell yet any alteration in the
sun's disk.

Indeed, most of it was eclipsed, but the light still perceived limbo, radiated glare enough
to hide our weak eyes to the great shadow that threatened and burial.

We, therefore, that the sun shimmered on the zenith, the sky, or is the space to which no reached
the shadow of the moon, was flooded with light as before the phenomenon,
and that without But the night fell over the earth, suddenly, rapidly
and without gradation or twilight as if our planet had been very light
and could blow off the Maker suddenly.

In this - (and say everything that happened in less than a second) - in it instantly expires
the last glow, change their appearance all things look sort are two stars near the star dying:
make a terrible wind, cold, are the clouds ennegrécese sea; walking in the shade at our feet,
it seems that unhinges the sky, like when you move a Shopping in
the theater, the sun dies and replace it ....., never seen a star,
a meteor funeral and grand, more beautiful than anything imagined
by man !.....

A cry of terror comes a thousand breasts.

Simple people that surround us undoubtedly believe that the world ends ..... But, seeing that the
sun has been replaced by that phenomenon as beautiful and amazing, new display of power and wisdom
of the Lord, break forth in a applause, in a live, in a brave, in a frantic and enthusiastic
acclaim .....

This unique and gentle praise the Author of nature, brings tears in my eyes ..... The show's
combination hair stands on end ..... The box around me, the hour, site, all contribute to horrify,
to move me, to lift my spirit, to reveal the immeasurable greatness
of God.

Golgotha, as is depicted at three in the afternoon of that awful and
glorious day Jesus died, the Last Judgement, prophesied by the Apocalypse,
the Flood, Pompeii, American earthquakes .....; I do not know how
many and how strange things went through my mind.

Meanwhile ....., how wonderful, how sublime appearance of the heavens!

The star that had replaced the sun, it would seem that it was his coffin, his enlightened mound,
his capella ardente .-- Imagine a dark sky, and through him a large black and gold plate, a huge
star enameled ..... I do not know how you tell !.....-- Imagine the disk Luna, jet black, and around
it a border of light formed by irradiation the sun behind it. Divergent part of this border
four or five bursts of silver and gold, as the flashes that we see
in the halos of the saints .-- Gothic was thus a star mourning, the
body of the sun, dressed in black light .-- Sun and Moon were one
body, mysterious monster represented both day and night .....

- Oh
God (thought all at the time)!

How infinite is thy power! Many new could create wonders, even after many worlds full of them!
What will is equal to the last of things, if you put your hand on it August!

Just over two minutes, they'll never forget the mortals who have witnessed this great tragedy, The
total eclipse lasted .-- The people still shout to God with his arms raised to heaven, with
tears in their eyes .....

The darkness was not so much that we stopped to see each other ..... But how! What ominous light
in our foreheads! What gloom in the clouds! What apparent mobility
soil under our feet