 

'D. Augustine, weather! Tomorrow is new moon and may change "- said in the alley Dog a dependent
of Trujillo.

- Abur, Abur ...

Finally got home ... By opening the door, said to Philip:

"Miss Amparo awaits you ...».

And he, hearing this, shook with shock and grief, curiosity and fear of satisfying ... What
would she face?, What would you say?

"And my cousin Bringas, is too?".

- No, sir, the lady came alone.

Knight went through the rooms. The first was not in the second either. What surprised him most
was hearing the tune of the birds. But at the moment to put his foot in the second cabinet, the
music suddenly stopped. Had run the string. Silence suspended following the gig was so respectful
and mournful, that Augustine was afraid ... Well there was not.

He saw a glass on the table, a bottle. Then our illustrious friend up with some trepidation the
curtain of the bedroom and saw a foot ... Frightened stopped looking
better, because the balcony of the bedroom was closed and there was
very little light ... He saw a black skirt ... hanging arm, hand touching
the ground ... a pink ear ... a scarf covering face ... He approached
the horrible suspicion that there were no signs of life that body;
so still was ... Looked closely ... Touched, called ... Yes, living
... breathing work as if suffering from a strong grief.

The eyes were closed, dry ...

Leaving the cabinet again, Knight saw the recipe ... He read briefly ran out ... Felipe came
to meet in the classroom ...

"To call a doctor - said the master -.

Say, Miss came alone?, Did you take ...?». dresses

- A medicine, yes sir.

He sent me to bring it to the pharmacy.

- You! ... Doomed! - Augustine said attacking the servant with such
fury, that thought reached the end of his days.

- Mr Philip ...--
stammered crying - I did the medicine ...

- What? ... dog ... murderer.

-
Do not worry ... The pharmacist told me it was poison, and then I
... Oh, do not hit me! ... I came home, took an empty bottle, filled
it with tap water ... and burst water ...

- What banished, executioner?

-
It took a little tincture of guaiac ... brought the Doña Marta when
I ached molars.

- Call Dona Marta ... Not notify the doctor yet