 Clara moral beauty makes us sympathetic and interesting; makes us,
the humble maid, poor, helpless and old, in person interesting worthy of poetry and that honor and
glorify the human condition.

Even more poetic, and simpler argument, is the novella A pure soul, that we have spoken. The
old lady who lives given to devotion, who stands and prays frequently Cathedral of the provincial
capital, is very cleverly portrayed. The author achieves almost since then, with good sense
and exquisite art, do we care by Prisca, so is called the old woman.

She also had in his remote youth tender and delicate love.

The purpose of these abandoned her to go to seek their fortune in distant lands. All earnest and
affectionate affections of the soul of Prisca and concentrated, then took refuge in religion,
seeking and finding comfort and solace therein. A single source of sadness clouded and in light
of his thoughts serene. An impious and sacrilegious hands had stolen from the cathedral a small, artistic
and gorgeous, custody. How great would be the joy of Prisca when learned from the canon, his confessor,
a very rich and pious man had sent enough money for another custody, similar to the stolen
and no less beautiful, be at the cost and outside his the ornament and glory of this church! True architect
of considerable merit, or obscure Arfe Cellini, olvidadoen the center of this provincial town,
making the new custody reproducing inspired breathtaking beauties in ancient few seemed. Prisca,
old man's friend architect, goes daily to see and celebrate progress in the manufacture of new
custody. Strange, complicated and passionate mix of emotions stirred the hearts and minds of Prisca
when he learns that the person who made the generous donation is the boyfriend who had abandoned,
which rich and happy lives in very distant regions! Unable to resist his weakened body to the violence
of the emotions that stir the spirit, Prisca falls ill of fatal illness, and breathed his last
when finished and the new custody, passes in solemn and triumphant procession through the door
of his house. The memories of puppy love and the later mysticism of life Prisca amalgamate
and melt gently in his soul in those last moments, purifying and exalting in such a way past
love earth, not heaven's sake profane or put the slightest stain
on cleaning