 "Lemon and milk!" In the open spaces of walkers played the bull rogues.
The kids burned Chinese firecrackers and rockets, and all was bustle and confusion. Not far
from me a superabundant old fry their donuts plasticity. The thin membrane, white, very smooth,
was within minutes of the knee buñolera of the napkin nivea, a boiling pan, butter screaming to
take over the mass, which is fluffy in thousand vials, and soon left the donut inviting and tempting,
but dismissing some cloying fragrance.

From time to time, a rocket start tearing up the air, burst into the heights, and burst into jets
of fire, white lights, green, red, glazing with national colors the dark sky. Thundered in
the court the shooting Morterero Marquesas busting bomb, lit up with lightning-fast and clear,
dome and tower.

- Here, Rodolfo! - "Miss me from the lamp .-- You see how beautiful collection.

And I was twenty or thirty watercolors, flowers, fruits and birds,
painted masterfully.

Gabriela never saw more beautiful! Gallant wore a blue suit, a faded blue, pale the color of the sky
on a fall morning.

- We will put in that window. Leave the other for Pepillo so much fun with these things ....

I
repeat, never seemed more beautiful blonde lady.

When looked at in light of the lamp I saw and wrapped in a golden atmosphere. All my projects
came to earth passion asleep woke up panting, and the image of Linilla
present so far in my memory, suddenly vanished in the darkness of
oblivion.

I felt no strength to the Gabriela beauty, defeated, overwhelmed.

- Very cool wind blows ... rare thing in this month.

Surely it has rained in the mountains .... Are not you cold? I do. Is it because I'm very nervous.
I'll get a coat.

He went to the bedroom.

My eyes followed .... Soon came wrapped in a shawl very wide, Plush silk purple.

- You see - he said, sitting in a rocking chair - close to the castle
we ....

At that moment in front of us rose to fifty feet from the
sidewalk, a tree fire the main piece, which was greeted by jubilant
rogues with shouting.

The disciples of flats returned to the fray with festive polka, 'Harlequin',
much in vogue in the fall of the Empire and popularized by the famous
musicians of the Austrian Legion.

- I wanted to talk to you, Rodolfo.

I have to tell many things I have to give very happy news ....

-
Joyful news?

- Yes, very happy ....

- Let's see what they are.

-
Does not deserve you, my friend, I trust those of my heart.

No, certainly not! You have not been frank with me. Linilla thought you and loved each other,
and I said, I wanted to you had me a friend, a sister who would tell you their joys and sorrows
.... And you, Rodolfo, I told the truth ....

- Well, - he went happily - I do not pay in the same currency. I know that love, true love is shy
and modest, who does not like revealing secrets, that strives to live in hiding .... You deserve apology!