 

As Palomino to write the life of Velázquez declares that it is the main thing John de Alfaro,
and then at the latter says that "left in his plundering some books and papers very courtiers,
among them some notes on the life of Velázquez, his teacher, "and as In addition, Fray Francisco
de los Santos was not a paragon of literary integrity, was excusable that is easily believed
in the authenticity of the booklet, but these considerations lose all his strength to think for
delivery in the monastery of pictures that were already known, Velazquez did not need to write a critical
study: it was enough time for such a list explain to the men what they received, and which
knew the King who had been their orders fulfilled.

The painted by Velazquez, from the turn of the second trip to Italy, already bears the personal
stamp, unmistakable, revealing the full development of his native powers, and the greatest
of experience, skill and expertise he acquired over the years.

In this period of his life are two bust portraits of Philip IV, one in the National Gallery
London in a black suit with gold embroidery, and Madrid [71] where the doublet, also black
this orphan ornaments, without further notice on it clearly highlight the white canvas smooth
and stiff the flange that separates the face. The King's fifty years, and perhaps even pass
them: the face is withered, flabby flesh, the eyes have lost their vividness: the face we
saw in the great equestrian portrait appears before the aged, tired, sad, as if it will mark
not only over time, but the bitter sediment in the soul had left him lost so much land and
so many glories overshadowed: already in the old sad and disappointed that hearing himself called
the great had to know it was a lie. The cold blue eyes as incurable melancholy tempered by the
weak, no energy to fuel the lymphatic and flabby face where the jaw typical root out feels more
pronounced than ever and full lips, sexy, still very red, betray appetite which was the master
of your body. That face, comically serious, serious without Majesty is one of those pieces in
which the painter, both in reality made by copying, As for leaving logically deduce the imagination,
touch the limits of what can get the art. Velázquez did more than reproduce what he saw, he was not
attributable purpose unrelated to the ideas of his time, but noted with such insight, his eyes
squinted so deep, that formed a portrait process.

In no time the King must have had so long before, because if you notice that some lines are surprised
to suddenly hitting the first attempt, others seem corrected, found after halting trials,
but resulting in a set in which are mixed knowledge and ease, the
innate ability and the fruit of experience.

He has not missed, however, who cast doubt on the authenticity of
this portrait: Armstrong says that he looks like a painted copy, no
doubt, the study of the teacher, and whosoever you think to ask: by
whom?

Neither Mazo, or Rici or Carreño, were capable of such mastery.

A Queen Mariana of Austria Velázquez painted four times. First, in the canvas appears today in the
Louvre, [72] after one that is in the Imperial Gallery of Vienna [73] and then in both of Madrid,
[74] where he stands with rich black dress laced with silver, huge wig of long curls, white feather
headdress, brutally imprisoned body the gossip and the left hand a white handkerchief, towering
over the voluminous flared skirt and rigid. The face is small, skinny, expressionless, Entec,
expressionless gaze no smile on your face: all hands are beautiful, thin, aristocratic. Do not
see it SM foot that was disrespectful. Just between these two portraits difference that the various
dimensions of the curtain that serves as background to the figure but the number 1079, seems to be
made later, as if repetition of the first and executed more disengage
and promptly.

The Infanta Margarita María, first fruit of the marriage of Philip IV with tiesísima lady who
just mentioned, is portrayed by Velázquez in Vienna to two or three years, with rich red suit
and silver [75] and six or seven in a suit very similar to has on the painting Las Meninas:
[76] in the Louvre [77] of four or five, dressed in white with black lace, and in Frankfurt
at six or seven of gray and black, being in all these images because we do not have the apocryphal,
one of the most sympathetic Velázquez plotted. His face is gordinfloncillo, the yellowish-blond
hair, cold air washout and stopped, but it is nice, almost pretty, because it has the charm of innocence
and candor, the children she triumphs in the type of the breed is so young that have not yet
purchased packaging which disfigures the ladies of his lineage. The galas are adorned with this form
ugly and only tolerated by the harmonies of color and wonder of implementing squandered Velazquez
to paint those tissue, tulle, ribbons, bows, jewels and feathers,
rustling, shine and curl as if the moving air.

[Image: LOUVRE MUSEUM

The Infanta Margarita

FRAME. Braun, Clement & C ª]

One of the most beautiful pictures that belong to this period of life of the teacher is the
cataloged at the Museum with the number 1,084, and offers the particularity of being made head
so far below the rest of the figure. Don Pedro de Madrazo explains this double aspect of the
execution, saying that the sitter is Dona Maria Teresa of Austria's daughter Felipe IV, from
his first marriage, that Velázquez had painted the head before taking the second trip to Italy,
according to his way then, leaving broken and that later, back, finish it in his later years, when
it comes to marriage of the Infanta to Louis XIV of France. "That explains why - he says -
a portrait executed in general with such freedom and sobriety so wise and so it belongs to
last and best time of Velázquez, representing themselves as a child of ten years, which was already
about twenty, when the great artist painted of the wonderful and unique way. " Explains Justify
the above inequality, saying that the portrait is Dona Maria Teresa, but its sister, the Infanta Margarita,
daughter of the second marriage of Philip IV, adding that as the whole picture is less head
Velázquez, this might be repainted, that is, replaced by a different
artist, now dead master, when negotiating the marriage of Doña Margarita
taking thirteen.

Beruete, on grounds which are not lacking in strength as the disproportion between the chair
and figure as before, he says, should be smaller, and the execution of the head, it attaches to Deck,
shares the view of Justice.

Working hard to believe that in a painting by Velazquez and as admirable as it is daring to introduce
changes or amendments, and less Mazo another painter, but keep in mind that in that time, which
could send were obeyed more easily than now, especially if it was artist who had to obey.
Finally, in the first catalog that was made today Museo del Prado is called, is included the box
with no. 149 and said this: Velázquez.

Portrait of the Infanta Maria Margarita of Austria, daughter of Philip IV, scene depicted frank
and free brush and the first time [78]. In 1858, appeared under the no. 198, and as portrait
of the Infanta Dona Maria of Austria, daughter of Philip IV, without saying whether it was Margarita
or Dona Teresa.

Whatever, something that matters little, since it is not lady whom Spain or mankind the least
glory be, the picture is a marvel of color and execution. The attire of the girl who has nothing
nice, is composed of large stores-infant, and close bra pink, silver lama gallons of mercury placed
diagonally in the bottom half the skirt, sleeves flying afolladas gauze and red ribbons. Her hair,
which is very fair, party, with a side parting, many jewels, and, after the fashion of the time,
a thick cord gold trimmings on the right arm starts and ends at the left side. In right hand
has a huge canvas on the left points and a rose. The rich drapery crimson background serves
him just give the whole aspect of luxury unusual and inappropriate a jovencilla. It's homely face,
the weakness of the body which can be seen under strong gossip and quirky form of hair and costume,
the portrait should be irritating to the eye: the little woman so overloaded with chervil perjeñada
and there is some great and monstrous, but Velazquez has there hands full discharge such charms
of color, a rich variety of reds, ranging from the more intense the pink lipstick more subdued,
has become so gauzy tulle and shining the metal, which is so air can flow, as strong as it must
weigh that the often ridiculous disproportion between breast and bulging of the skirt, everything
that comes as battered by the imperfection of the model and extravagance
of the clothes, obscured by the splendor of nuances that delights
the eye and gorgeous, loose and easy implementation of that incomprehensible
and mysterious, just steps gives the painting a complete look of the
real.

Married Philip IV in 1649 with Dona Mariana of Austria, much younger than he and his niece, born
in 1657 Prince Felipe Prospero, who, having apparently two years, portrayed Velázquez. He put
up with bright red suit trimmed with silver, smooth flange, chiffon sleeves and apron white,
which stand about waist pending a bell cords and other two toys. Has left hand fall naturally
over the body and the right hand put on a crimson velvet chair, whose seat is up a little dog
lying stained white wool that support the nose on one arm of the furniture looks with extraordinary
vividness. The poor Prince, son late father and mother spent girl shows and in the low coloration
of the face and the weakness of the body that was to come to stick crown. The face and hands are made
with exceptional finesse, studied so far, contrasting delicate inks and pale red with different
clothes, the couch and the curtains background. The essential, characteristic of the individual
is thoroughly completed, and all the rest run with this fast, loose and easy on the eye and the
hand have synthesized much and with such confidence of success, there seems to be working
there anymore the need to give the impression of things. This portrait, which is one of the
boxes Velázquez best preserved and critics whose praise are satisfied, is preserved in the Imperial
Museum of Vienna [79].

De los Reyes of the Middle Ages inherited a nasty habit of modern living amid buffoons who tolerate
the freedoms that illustrious politicians did not consent or general Winners: No it was this
vile own genuinely Spanish monarchs, but, at it seems, imported by those who came from outside.
Around the breed sad abounded Austrias of hunchbacks, dwarves, bowlegged, and almost crazy fools, who
are commonly called vermin Palace. Perhaps the company would find this ridiculous result of hereditary
melancholy which made the son of Juana la Loca retire to Yuste, be confined in a cell Felipe
II El Escorial and die terrified Felipe III. The custom began in the reign of Charles I, so
widespread, that not only were real clowns in the halls, but also in houses of the nobles.
The great Antonio Moro masterfully portrayed one called Perejón that were the Counts of Benavente,
and the Museo del Prado will see full length and size natural, adorned with luxury and French
playing cards in his hand [80].

The reign of Felipe IV are preserved papers citing maintained many of those phenomena comfortably
and gift they wanted for themselves and great men who went hungry
and contempt.

In consultation with the King made in 1637 on the dresses of worship that were given to certain
servers palace, after proposing to fix the cost of the costumes of the apparatus, uncle who
kept the hounds, the musicians, barbers and Diego Velázquez! appointing several buffoons and
men of pleasure therein, and a Pablo de Valladolid who then called Pablillo and does not look
like a clown, others surely were: Gourds, protruding, Don Juan de Austria, Christopher the
blind, the English Dwarf Don Antonio who is paid a schoolmaster, and Nicolas Bautista Panela
and chess should be very destrozones and lost, then by proposing to give them clothing shows
the appropriateness to force them to put you to not walk as far, which suggests that they
were a very big pig. It is understood that Velasquez, a joke or for study, portray a couple of them,
as it had in the Primo Fraga, who is also on that relationship: but when he painted so many
it's no nonsense to suppose that he would order the King. For at least you liked it and ordered
placed in a hall room Kingdoms Retiro palace, near the door you came
out to take the cars.

Not all of these pictures are from the same period: the fool of Coria,
the child of Vallecas, Don Sebastian Primo de Morra and belong to
the mowing style: Dwarf Don Antonio and Don Juan English of Austria
to last.

Hardly be found in the story as eloquent proof that so dignified art
plays, and even with the ugliness bordering on the disgusting, pleasant
impressions because, as this series of doodles negligible immortalized
by the genius of a man.

The Primo, with its large hat and black terry suit, leafing through a folio: Morra, rather than
sitting, lying on the ground at once, showing her green tights and red tabard, the fool Coria,
with his severe black suit as a serious person, the child of Vallecas, almost all green and
half torn, Don Antonio English, with brocade doublet and plumed hat, and Don Juan de Austria,
with military trappings, they form a motley and strange company,
to reviews which joking and laughing, as they lived, but thinking
makes an impression deeper than many shows serious.

In the heads of those unfortunate is where you can study better far did he Velázquez in the study
of expression: the first is serious and thoughtful, almost elegant, Morra has a face of evil, the fool
of Coria's kind of sad idiot, the child of Vallecas stupidly cheerful Antonio English, supported
in that magnificent mastiff nicer than him, like a cartoon Pride, Don Juan de Austria, before
the palace jester has escaped rogue trace chapters of Guzman Alfarache or jácaras de Quevedo. And
you can not say which are better painted, because if the last period are a wonder to one who
knows technique, amazed by the previous life on their bodies, ready to move, and on their faces where
gestures or faces after a comic insurmountable sadness seems that
bubbles unnamed must leave the belief in the soul's own shame.

Every fan of Spanish painting, have their favorite pieces in the whole of the works Velazquez:
I, recognizing the increased importance of the great combinations like the Spinners and Las
Meninas, I confess I am particularly fond of that gang of clowns, sad Pictures do not seem independent,
but figures from the same box, same players drama that have broken their will to think for
themselves, but they could meet want. Velázquez always played beautifully real world, even as intangible
and subtle, because it gave the illusion of the air we breathe, but where he managed to paint life
with greater power of expression was in the minds of men that flock frustrated certainly not made
in the likeness of God, that makes you want to mourn after making her laugh. The king, who
boasted of letters, did not send him to portray the poets who gave glory to reign, or Montalban,
and Salas Barbadillo, and Velez de Guevara, or Red, or Moreto or Tirso, or Calderon or Lope, but
their jesters, and not fantasize need to believe the painted with some sweet sympathy, were his
companions, together included in payroll Palace.

The old inventory of the Alcazar and biographers speak of other portraits Velázquez jesters
unaccounted for: that of Calabacillas quote, which is perhaps the appointed day Coria as the
simpleton, as they remembered before it two pumpkins on the ground, that of Cardenas, the toreador,
and the Velasquillo: Finally, Ponz, in listing the paintings in the time existed in the palace
of Retiro, mentions "a buffoon with a grinder fun paper and then some, that appeal to Velázquez
"[81]. Finally, Stirling, says that Captain Widdrington, author of Spain and the Spanish in
1843, says in this work have seen the picture of a naked dwarf represented
as Bacchante.

'THE CORONATION OF THE VIRGIN. "

Velazquez had never taken very seriously mythology: as a boy in the house of Pacheco, where they
were to be read and discussed poetic compositions appropriate to the tastes of the time, loves
and adventures of heroes and gods, animals and fish he painted, when he went to Italy and breathed
in that atmosphere, essentially pagan, brought the Forge of Vulcan,
where the last years of his life decorating the king ordered a stay
of the Palace, which makes pictures depicts the characters of the
story as mere mortals