 Enrique and Miguel, who had been in the courtyards talking a moment
with the cigar and his crew were also to occupy the seats. The noise had decreased a lot, because
this is perceived by the sounds of the charanga hospicianos, which until then had failed to be
heard. The spectators drew watches and meaningful glances ran for president. In this, the brass
band struck up with energy real progress, all faces turned to the lookout point where it appeared
regal Queen Elizabeth, some clapped, others said 'hush, hush, "because the political atmosphere was
then overcast with some clouds that are not downloaded much later. Made the signal, after all, the
teams entered the arena to the sound of the running of the zarzuela Pan y toros: out, as usual,
forming three rows in front of everyone concerned was the sword. To see a prolonged burst of applause.
Severe across the square, firm, rhythmic, listening to the shouting that his appearance had
risen, with the greatest indifference, shining their rich clothes and live firing flares Capellaro
that pleases the eye. - Mial, mial old!

... That is, to the left ... Mial which side has ... He hums the soul to this guy! .. In Spain there
is no longer bulls who receives more than he ... All attention was
concentrated on the plaza cigarette cases, despite the fact that also
killed Laurel and lizards, which was then beginning to be the darling
of the public.

But for the amateur Madrid, to see receive a bull is one of those dreams that never made but live
constantly in the heart stand taken by several bullfighters, but receive what is called receive
really do not have only the ancient heroes of bullfighting. Uniform saluted with a gesture to the
chair, and broke ranks, pulling layers gala to friends in the stands,
who were responsible for their care with more pride than if it were the
Ark of the Covenant.

The president took out his handkerchief, blew the bugle, the bullpen door opened, came the first
bull. Miura was a chestnut, chorreao, ribbon, thin and beautiful film, and raised long horn. Volunteer
showed himself noble in the beam, holding the six Shiv round picks. But to get to the sticks began
to fight back. However, he nailed a superb Serranito pair room with fine and clean, pleasantly
surprised the audience: in Madrid did not know, as in Seville, Baldomero was a boy who would be talking
about. Hake was passed once and then hung a stick room as well. Serranito again to catch the
bats, and after trying in vain to hang on the bias, put them breaking cleanly and expertise. There
was a frenzy of clapping in the square, her slender figure and the singular correctness and delicacy
of her features, captivated the audience, the women you greedily stuck twins, triumphantly walked
around the plaza smiling receiving applause from the stands. It was his turn to Cigarette: severely advanced
to the presidency, took off his hat and said in a hoarse voice a few words that nobody could
understand, then went straight to the bull, which had marked tendency
to flee.

Persiguiole unsuccessfully for some time amid the expectant curiosity of the square. Finally,
thanks to the efforts of the crew was able to fret, and did pretty tight, giving some good passes, the
crowd applauded and the promised very happy. But amid the slaughter, the right-hander suffered
a strained and entirely lost his poise, gave three or four passes without trust and broken, and
hastily, without being either square the animal, rolled the cloth and pulled far enough to step flags.