 

When the two friends meet in the middle of Carrejo, enzarzáronse in an embrace so intimate and
tight, looking like a "engarra '; ate kisses between kisses and they said the biggest atrocities,
Lita came with his grandfather, and repeated the scene until it ran out of Robacio to look at
me and began to mourn the deceased, so willingly, that seemed to be no comfort to her, while
her husband, which had greeted me, made the corresponding pots, and wiped his eyes with aprons
Lita and her mother, who were his very sticky tender heart and tears. The noise was finished,
by virtue of a spell mine, with the same speed that had been unleashed, and we went into the Hall
together and holy peace, but not silent. Arriving Neluco, another crack of her sister, no mouth
closed all night and wanted to leave the house since I heard the commotion he had in it. Precisely
for these things are perishing, and killed the stillness. On the other hand, roads were not very
appetizing than were, for a woman of her flesh to venture to step on at night without a great
need, besides the fact that she was not to cause trouble or extortion at home, because Pepa Mari
knew that in joining the two were always "round bed."

In this way, and slept there for those reasons, and they were alone after dinner, her husband and
Neluco to house it.

The first to arrive very early the next day were two relatives of the woman who was My Uncle
Celso, the Sanchez del Pinar, of Caórnica, on the banks of Saja. It was one very tall and one very
low: the two thick gray sideburns, both smiling and nothing little glib. I was embarrassed -
and told me to enter - visit and offer their respects for the first time to time so sad, it locked
in its valley, which is not never went without a reason considerable, a little ignorance of events
and partly because of the skill of "letting business for another day ...». Finally, there were
available to them at my convenience, as could comparientes have other there, they had not been
accompanied, who lack health who by the horse. All had much to Don Celso and I was very addicted
even bothered him recently.

Sit unfinished just these characters appeared in the Hall one whose appearance I surprised. He was tall,
more than Caórnica; of luenga and pointed white beard, dark color, very prominent and aquiline
nose, tiny eyes and eyebrows and ruffled green-white; head covered
with a high cylindrical hat otter skin, and the whole body until feet,
with a gray cloth capotón