 It is a tycoon who has a castle, and
has to go looking for a nursing zoca in molondra. It is a beggar who has risen to a palace,
but that has not ceased to be a beggar, boasting vain! Sterile pomp! Poor magnificence! Here are many things
just like to do, they say many things just like to say no ostentation, apparatus, there is no
intention, no purpose, there is an intimate and earnest work of the consciousness, which precedes
all desire, to every aspiration, especially when it is a mature and sensible aspiration. Here
are many non-profit principles. No meeting in France the previous thought, cautious, confident,
inflexible, I find in the work of the Germans, that beautiful feeling, that fantasy aromatic,
this seductive inspiration from the Italians, this calculation fixed, inflexible, stubborn,
silent, secretive, perhaps traitor, but logical, confident, wise, of the English, the hospital
rustic, generous and faithful that barbarism honest, faithful, loyal and courageous, the league
of the wild and the gentleman; mistura indefinable that the soldier, the poet, the pastor and the
gentleman that something Latino SCIT and Arabic, the character who entered Regulus, Attila and
Saladin, that specialty unique in the world (as the word chivalry) which distinguishes the
Spanish. Not saying it good, nor bad: say it is unique, and I accept the challenge to prove
otherwise I do. Can not find it here. I seem to find fast, stunning indeliberacion, exteriority,
luxury, pomp, purple on the outside, inside is a different thing. It's a great bottle that is uncovered.
Much noise, much buzzing, thick foam, whoever happens to little noise, and the bottle is half
empty. It seems as if the city feels that life gets out of hand, and runs back frantically
to catch her by the hair.

Elsewhere on the globe, a palace is a building that serves as home to kings, to the chief priests,
to the magnates, to the powerful, to the great corporations of the State as a Congress or
an Assembly. Here, no. Here is a palace tank of Industry, the exchange office, bank, the mint,
however, that neither the mint, or the bank, the industry, state bodies are high or powerful,
or magnates, or kings, or priests. This takes the name lavish palace, which in other countries
is simply called house, auction, storage, corn exchange, Almudín, or something similar. And the lavish
name, the royal strain with which to decorate the architecture (or the stones are safe from French
genius!) comes from the general trend that has created so many ways in this Babylon of the West;
some colossal forms, that has created so many interests, not respectable few, because there is no delusion
that has something sublime, and the frenzy of the French has been lucky: that itch idealize
everything, do everything Régio, as if he had left to be beauty eternal beauty of simplicity,
the inexhaustible, the majestic, the magnificent, the unique beauty of truth and the beauty
of a light cloud crossing the sky lonely: that passion, I say, comes from that spirit mythological,
fantastic, almost visionary, that is blind to the French, the French want the whole world blind. Not
how painful they want, because everyone makes his genius as you can: the painful is that they
want and succeed. Let's get it tomorrow, because the gilding is not shining always gold, because
the swarm of beer does not last forever, but today we get, because the dazzling gilded, because
the noise of the beer bottle stuns. Today we get; this is the truth.

And entering into the matter of the Exchange, bareheaded head and asking forgiveness from persons to
whom it will hurt, but it can be part of my desire, because my desire
more deliberate is not hurting anyone, I say that I am not consistent
with that change, with that business, with that game called Stock,
as today is established and organized.

I accept all legal game, as a distraction, and social profession as a career, as a profession,
as wages of every day, do not accept it. Tired as I can see that this opinion will shock to not
a few readers, I guess you call me extravagant, congratulations, I say and I repeat aloud
to not accept it. Honestly go play for awhile, yes. Playing for playing live; to give life to a game,
to pluck giving hands and smiling, for make a fortune in a day unwarranted, at the expense of
others foolish play for so many decent and honest traders burn your brain with a gun, not that.
Can be answered what they want, I do not wear the counter to anyone, any one deny it, but
I say no.

And who wants to have ideas of the Stock Exchange who wants to know what that game, that game that
very recently was called speculation, to come at two o'clock in the afternoon, and witness the
is going on inside this place.

I am going to say what I have seen himself, what I by I myself have witnessed, what I see and
witness, and hopefully I had not seen not seen!

Sounds when the quote of funds, and many people arrive, crowding, is harassing, crushed. Everyone
gets on tiptoes, stretched necks, beards, poke, faces light, eyes
are swollen .... Mother of God!

That's not a crier, no shouting; howling is an interminable, infernal gibberish. That's not
change, business, trade; that's a frenzy, a rapture, a fever. Acknowledge the existence of the fever
and frenzy like disease do not recognize it as a negotiation.

France wins a battle in Cochinchina, and raise funds. France itself suffers a setback in Sebastopol,
and the funds go down.

And the Frenchman, the man who was born in this village, the son of this mother, he sees his mother
fall, and if the stock market requires it, turns away and sold for three farthings. The fallen
are lifted then won a victory in the fields of Italy, cannon sounds announcing the victory
of Solferino, and the French recently sold to the France by three pennies, and now becomes offers
a bag full of gold. I will not give to France, but his game to his whims, his egoism. That's
a trading game with fortune and the disgrace of his country with honor and the glory of their
homeland. I do not accept that play the tears of a nation, I can not admit they play with conflicts
of men. I can not admit they play with the spirit which seeks an injunction under a crown laurel
crown perhaps soaked in blood, a blood shed by a brother maybe playing with that crown. Also
must be a letter from the man playing the palm of martyr! What is left to the world that leave
life, if you do not leave this palm! Traded on buenhora with matter, trading in all the world,
but leave the soul of man metaphysics poetics of a laurel, the metaphysical poetry of glory!

I
said and I repeat that this is not commerce, that is not the intelligence that unites nations which
melts the races, which establishes the unity of the world, the unity of mankind, unity of nature,
immutable and holy unity of God.

That is not trade, the conqueror universal, the universal revolutionary, commissioned by Providence
to carry, among its goods the spirit of tolerance and civilization to all countries. Play
is not trading, trade, not to play, should be the job of the merchant. If your new job is
a game, the natural just leave the name of dealer, and take the player name. If they accept the name
if agrees to receive the new baptism, with their bread let them eat. One certainly would not take
my son this profession, at least if my son heard the voice of his father.

Nor am I satisfied with the word exchange, nor that the stock has a palace, or the game that the palace
is verified.

At this point comes into my room D. Francisco Javier de Mendoza, who
has arrived recently some of Venezuela, and whom I met at the house
of D. José Segundo Florez.

The reader will allow me who devotes two lines to these two new characters, which will honor
the pages of my humildísimos notes.

Florea is a methodical man, relaxed, quiet, observant, deeply, is
a scholar, a man of letters, as it were an ancient sage, but with
modern science.

Javier de Mendoza speaks fluently, elegantly, with passion. Is passionate about everything
good reputation, and is passionate about the word: talk much, well, runs more than talk; imagines
running, calculated and planned than imagined. The single digested much more his thought, that
twenty people with the stomach. Get to the point where you are going before leave. Such is
the force with which his soul measures the space between the object you are looking for. This space
disappears, devours it, and before going into their thinking, is at his side. This man is
one of the largest characters I know. In it some combination of gallant and writer, soldier and
artist, a diplomat and banker. Is a large workshop, a large office in each of these characters
work without the workers uncomfortable.

Speaking of political views, says he wants equality of wealth and enjoyment, not the misery and
martyrdom. A Democrat, but wants to go by car. Has democracy of feeling, and the aristocracy
of the carriage.

If you aspire to employees, their first job would be a ministerial
portfolio, or an embassy of the first order.

If I had the gift of color, feel better if the art form, it would be a genius yet these skills,
is a good talent.

Then I read my friend Javier de Mendoza relation to the palace of the Bourse, and the game well
known publicly, and agreed in the impropriety of that word, and the
impropriety Palace name, applicable to that building.

It makes the game, agreed with me also, but I have noted that my views on this point will cause
outrage among some people, may do harm to the publication of my work.

For though my work is sinking, and to burn me, I said, say and repeat that I am not satisfied
but things Christian, and I think that this game is not Christian.

In the midst of my misadventures (which have been infinite) owe the sky that amount of value to
say to all the world the truth of a decent, and I always say, but it cost me up to scaffold.

Mingling amicably after the character of this wonderful city, we have agreed they would not miss
the best day to get up here a magnificent building, with the title
of PALACE OF THE MARKET.

Such is the rash that the French have shine, that we certainly would cause surprise to give a
palace to rabbits and partridges; to butter and to the eggs to cabbage, new potatoes and radishes
to.

It will say that we say this with intent to satirize this country. I'll not deny that the have
in us something of the mischievous malice, with which upbraideth
a ridiculous thing, something perhaps he feels that taste rough Spanish,
when tasting a delicacy of our neighbors; may have it in us, without
us knowing it, as we unknowingly mosquitoes bite during sleep, but
this does not mean that what we say has a great of truth.

Let us now turn to the Palacio Real, whose history is shorter and gallant. The reader knows that
during the course of several centuries, this magnificent palace was the center of Parisian
coquetry. In this garden that I see, the cunning courtesan offered to viewers in the suit
low-cut, looking back and chest, as if to flaunt wealth their incentives, also of wealth assault.
I say shame wealth, because if the giver much should be rich, those were to be very rich courtesans
of decorum. But being the Palace Real one of the great wonders of the absolute monarchy, it is
clear that in passing that regime, should have lost no little of its former glory. Space is the
least has been lost, and three streets have been made at the expense
of its enchanting gardens, the streets of Valois, Beaujolais , and
Montpensier.

I mean nothing of the architecture of the palace, because the prints
to accompany the work, will give a better picture than all the descriptions
that I could do, and happened to its historical background.

Richelieu, Cardinal more gallant history knows, the right arm of one of the more gallant kings
history knows well, the great minister of the great Louis XIV; Cardinal larger that that king,
Richelieu, the prelate poet, the poet financier, the political financier, political philosopher,
the philosopher magnate, standing up Palace Real. Then, there was recourse is the memory of
the great treasures that was indebted to the prodigal affection of
their kings, those treasures had to dig into the consciousness, was
wounded; in short, had remorse, and left the palace to Louis XIII,
who could not take possession.

Many secrets you must enclose the pile of stones! What story could be so curious writing, if the
mind of man was able to boot into oblivion those secrets!

But I do not say well, many of the things I have seen these walls and these floors, they could
not written, because there are many mysteries in this world that can not be counted.

This palace was the most famous, the home favorite of the aristocracy
of the seventeenth century XVIII, the monument of feasting, of gallantry,
love, a kind of temple in Athens, one of those Greek temples were
dedicated to beauty, a throne where he sat the goddess Venus as queen.

In that palace there was a theater, the brightest of all France, which fit comfortably three
thousand people, had a chapel, which was of solid gold ornaments, a magnificent library; rich collections
of paintings, and endless portraits of illustrious men, so that those rooms looked more like a historic
cemetery.

The palace of Cardinal represented foreign consortium of courtesy, of religion, science and
art, castle, church, theater, paintings and books.

Anne of Austria, Queen of France and regent of the kingdom, lived
near their Richelieu two, to mid-seventeenth century in 1643, and
in the same splendid palace took place wedding of his daughter to
the Duke of Orleans, brother of Louis XIV, whose monarch gave after
his brother the duke, to infantazgo title.

That same palace was the dwelling of the ruler, son of the Duke of
Orleans, and the fortress was Alcazar less than thalamus.

The books and portraits of famous men, science and art led to the toasts and the orgies. Richelieu
gave way to a prince, infamous.

Luis Felipe came, came the modern liberties, and tending to level it all, the Palace Real had to
fall, because the royal palace was nothing but a large gap from the old aristocracies.

Today, much of the lavish palace of the seventeenth century, has become
a huge bazaar.

This unexpected and wonderful transformation, presents the interesting spectacle of a conquering
caste to another caste, a fausto fausto happens to another of a bubble that put in place of another
bubble. This bazaar is the merchant, since instead of the courtier.

You live in the Royal Palace, leaving no precision there to provide
all things of life, from the muffin that costs a salary until the
ring worth ten thousand dollars.

That is not a building, is a major exhibition, a city, a people.

Three characters that fill the history of mankind, have stepped in
the same century the stairs of the castle: Richelieu, Louis XIV and
Peter the Great.

The Royal Palace has been on the names I am going to score.

Pay attention my readers.

In its early days, was called:

Palace and Palace of Cardinal Richelieu.

Under Anne of Austria, the Royal Palace.

Under the Revolution, the Palace of Equality.

After the revolution of February, the National Palace.

Recently, the Royal Palace.

He has served as palace, a forum, Brokerage, Commercial Court, and now Palace and bazaar.

We go to Luxembourg, whose history is even shorter, though no less curious and spicy. I say hot,
because all the creations of this society, there is something amazing, that surprised, but
it amazes and surprises, with a surprise and a wonder they have a
I do not know what that leads to laughter.

The French have a particularly pathetic, pathetic is half and half ironically, a baby who cries
and laughs at the same moment.

In all countries, institutions, systems, laws, attending the funeral of generations. Here a generation
attends the burial of many laws, many systems, and found many institutions.

This is reflected relentless levity in almost all public buildings in Luxembourg too, and so
I said having a curious history and spicy.

Roberto de Sancy Harlay built a building on the land now called Jardin de Luxembourg about
the year 1550, and will probably be known that factory Harlay Hotel.

Thirty-three years that have passed in 1583, Piney Luxembourg, Duke
opulent of that age, bought and expanded the Harlay Hotel, now known
under the name Palace Luxembourg.

Pass during twenty years, Maria de 'Medici purchased at Duke for twenty thousand pounds, up a magnificent
building, which has reached our days, calling at that time Palace de 'Medici.
Queen Mary donated the palace to the Duke of Orleans, his second
son, and then Palace called Orleans.

After you buy the Duchesse de
Montpensier, Anne Marie Louise, the heroine of the Fronde, for five
hundred thousand pounds.

It then passes into the hands of the Duchess
of Guise and Alençon, in 1672.

Later, towards the end of the seventeenth
century, in 1694, was owned by Louis XIV.

Louis XVI subsequently
gave it to the Count of Provence, who reigned after the name Louis
XVIII.

Finally, came the revolutionary times, and the former palace
of Luxembourg, the heir of so many kings, so many intrigues, many
mysteries and many conflicts became a domestic farm.

Under the Convention,
became a state prison, which they were conducted Hebert, Danton, and
other famous personalities, including Robespierre.

Under the Directory,
the government lived near Luxembourg, and the darkness of prison happens,
the dazzling brightness of a castle, where Barras, Barras Republican
aristocrat, showed off all the pomp and dilapidated all the regency