 What a feat of yours man! ... All the dirty tricks from him and others neighbors
had only served to take the life of a poor little boy. And according to his custom in the dark
days when he knitted his brows a concern, he went to the tavern, looking for the consolations which
he kept in his famous Cup boot in the corner.

At ten o'clock, when Pepeta with her two companions returned to Valencia,
was the crowded barracks.

Some men of more phlegmatic, "men of the house ', which had just taken part in the crusade against
outsiders, formed a circle with Batiste in the door of the hut: a
squat, to the Moor, others sitting in rush-chair, smoking and talking
slowly weather and crops.

Inside, women and more women around wringing her to bed, overwhelmed with his mother talk, talking some of
the children who lost Babi, installed new ones in the corners as at home, repeating all the
gossip of the neighborhood. That day was special; never mind that their barracks were dirty
and the food to be done: he had an excuse, and creatures, clinging
to her skirts, crying and stunned by his cries, wanting a return to
house, asking them to teach others the "Bishop.

Some old had taken out of the cupboard, and every moment preparing large vessels water with wine and
sugar, offering them to Teresa and her daughter to cry more "relief." And when the poor, swollen
by the flood and sugar, they refused to drink, the informal Wives
were in turn throwing the gullet soft drinks, because they also needed
pass disgust.

Pepeta he began to cry and want to impose their authority on this
confusion.

"People out here! Instead of being annoying, they had to do was bring the two poor women, exhausted
pain, so noisy idiots. "

Teresa refused to leave her child if only for a short time, soon cease to view, that does not steal
the time left to contemplate his treasure. And bursting in stronger wailing, rushed on the cold
body, wanting to embrace him.

But the pleas of his daughter and will Pepeta were stronger, and escorted by many women, left
the hut with the apron on the face, moaning, staggering, not paying attention to which she pulled
in contention for the each to take home.

Pepeta began arranging the funeral pomp. First placed in the center of the entrance the white
pine table where the family ate, covering it with a sheet and fixing ends with pins. Handed
over a starched lace coverlet, and laid upon it the small coffin
brought from Valencia, cute, all the neighbors who admired: a white
box gold braid, fluffy inside like a cradle.

Pepeta pulled from an envelope the latest trappings of dead child: a habit of woven gauze silver
threads, sandals, a garland of flowers, all white, curly snow, as
the light of dawn, which symbolized purity of Albat poor.

Slowly, lovingly maternal, was shrouding the corpse.

I pressed the little body against cold his chest with outbursts of passion sterile, introduced
in the stiff little arms to shroud scrupulous care, such as broken glass that could crack the
slightest blow, and kissed their feet fixed to ice before pulling on his shoes.

On his arms, like a white dove stiff with cold, the poor Pascualet moved to the box to that altar erected
in the middle of the hut, before which he was going to spend all the garden attracted by curiosity.

I
still was not all; missing the best part: the wreath, a bonnet of
white flowers with hanging hanging over the ears, an ornament of savage,
like the Indians to the theater.

The Pepeta pious hand, engaged in tenacious battle with death, tinted the pale cheeks with pink
blush, the mouth of the dead child, blackened, was revived under a layer on vermilion, but
struggled in vain to open the simple peasant inordinately their loose
eyelids.

Fell again, covering the eyes dull, scrim, without reflection, with the gray sadness death.

Poor Pascualet! ... Unhappy rump! With its extravagant wreath and his face was painted made a mess.
More painful tenderness inspired his pale head, with the green of death, crash on the pillow
of his mother, without her blond hair ornaments.

But this did not prevent good vegetable garden is excited about his work. "Look at him! ... If you
seemed to be asleep! So beautiful! !...» Rosy as had ever been seen as the "Bishop.

Flower-filled holes of box: white flowers on the clothing, flowers scattered on the table, stacked
to form branches at the ends.

It was the whole valley hugging the body of that child who had so often seen jumping the trails
like a bird spreading his cold body on a wave of scents and colors.

The two younger brothers to Pascualet looked stunned, with devotion, as a superior being he was about
to take flight from one moment to another. The dog was about the funeral bier, stretching his
nose, trying to lick wax cold little hands, and burst into a cry almost human a cry of despair
that nerve to put women and had they pursued kicks to the poor beast.

At noon, Teresa, escaping almost by main force that kept captive in the neighbors, he returned
to the barracks. His mother's affection made her feel a great satisfaction to the trappings
of small. He kissed her face painted, and redoubled her sobs.

It was lunchtime. Batistet and younger siblings, in which pain could not silence stomach, ate
a morsel hidden in corners. Teresa and her daughter did not think eat. The father, still sitting
on a rush-chair under the bower of the door smoked cigarette after cigarette, impassive as an Oriental,
turning his back to his home, as if afraid to see the white coffin that served as an altar to the
dead body of her son.

Afternoon were still more numerous visits. The women came in the garb of Holidays, put blanket
to attend the funeral, the girls disputábanse with Tenacity being one of the four who had to
carry the poor "Bishop to the cemetery.

Walking slowly down the side of the road and fleeing from the dust as a mortal danger, was a great
visit: Joaquin and Dona Pepa, the teacher and his "lady." That afternoon, during the "unfortunate
event" - his words - there were no school. While watching the mob is guessed bold boys and sticky
that were creeping into the cabin, and tired of looking, picking
his nose, the body of his companion, went out to chase down the road
immediately or to jump the ditches.

Doña Josefa, dressed somewhat threadbare wool blanket and a large black and yellow, solemnly entered
the cabin, and after some colorful phrases to catch the fleeting
her husband, robust humanity up residence in a rope chair and stood
there, dumb as sleepy, staring at the coffin.

The good woman, accustomed to hear and admire her spouse, no could follow a conversation.

The teacher, who wore his green casaquilla days of great ceremony and tie most size, sat outside,
next to the father. His big hands of the grower had sheathed in black gloves that had turned
gray with age, being colored wing fly and continuously moving, eager to draw attention to your
clothes for great occasions.

To Batiste also drew the flower and sound of his style. It was his best customer, or on Saturday
had failed to deliver his sons the two rooms for the school.

- This is the world, Mr. Bautista, must resign!

We never know what the plans of God, and often brings good from evil for creatures.

Interrupting his string of platitudes, such pompously, as if in the school, he said softly,
his eyes twinkle mischievously:

- Have you noticed, Mr. Bautista, in all these people? ... Yesterday you talked pests and family,
and God knows that on many occasions I have criticized this evil.

Enter today this house with the same confidence in his and overwhelm them in so many signs of
affection. Misfortune makes you forget, they approach you.

And after a pause, in which he remained head down, pounding his chest
said:

- Believe me, I know them well: at the bottom are good people.

Very gross, yes, capable of the greatest atrocities, but with a heart that is moved by the plight
and makes them hide the claws ... Poor people! What crime have if they were born to live like animals
and no one takes out of his condition?

He paused a while, then added, with the fervor of a merchant who praises
his wares:

- Here is what is needed is education, much instruction.

Temples to disseminate knowledge the light of science by the meadow, torches ... that ...
In short, if they were smaller to my temple, I say to my school, and parents, instead of getting
drunk, should pay on time like you, Mr. Bautista, otherwise it would
run.

I say no more, because I do not offend.

It was in danger, as near his person were a lot of parents sent him disciples without the burden of
the two rooms.

Other peasants, who had shown great hostility against the family, dared not reach the cabin and
stood on the road, forming a circle. Pimento walked there, who had just come from the tavern
with five musicians, the conscience after being for several hours at the desk Cup

More and more people flocked to the booth.

There was no free space within it, and women and children would eat on the banks of bricks, under
the arbor, or on the slopes, waiting the time of burial.

Within laments sounded, a voice such strong advice, a rumor control. Was wanting Pepeta Teresa
separate the body of his son. We ... had to be reasonable: the Albat could not stay there forever,
it was getting late, and soon pass ordeals.

And the mother struggled to separate it from the coffin, to compel her to get in the students and
not witness the terrible moment of departure, when the Albat, lifted shoulders increases flying
with the white wings of her shroud, never to return.

- Fill meu! ... Sa king mare! [21] - moaned poor Teresa.

[21] - My son ... King of his mother!

No longer would be more: a kiss ... another.

And the head, more and more cold and pale in spite of rouge moved from side to side of the pillow,
shaking his crown of flowers, among the eager hands the mother and
sister, who disputed the last kiss.

On the outskirts of town was awaiting the vicar with the sacristan and altar servers: For them
it was not expected.

Pepeta was impatient. "Inside, inside!" And aided by other women, Teresa and her daughter were
put almost by main force in the students, turning disheveled, eyes red from crying, chest
beating pulse of a protest to painful no longer moaning, but howled.

Four girls with hollow skirt, silk scarf falling over her eyes and modest and monkish air, grabbed
the legs of the table, lifting all white catafalque.

As the shot salutes the flag being raised, heard a strange cry, prolonged, horrifying, something
that Many did run cold shoulders. It was the dog laying off the poor "Bishop, launching a interminable
whining, tearful eyes and legs outstretched, as if to prolong the
body where their cry came.

Outside Joaquin care slapping "Let's see ...! Does any school!

"People the way he had approached the hut. Pimento captained his friends the musicians; they prepared
their tools to greet the "Bishop just transposed the door, and between
clutter and noise that the procession was forming warbling clarinet,
was scales, the cornet and trombone as a fat old man snorted and asthma.

The

youngsters set off, carrying aloft large bouquets of basil. Don Joaquín knew how to do things. After
breaking the crowd, appeared four maidens holding the white and light altar on which the poor
"Bishop was lying in his coffin, shaking his head slightly back and forth, as if they dismiss the shack.

The
musicians broke into a waltz playing playful and happy, standing behind the coffin, and abalanzáronse
after them down the road, forming tight groups all the curious.

The barracks, throwing away her digestion of the crowd, stood silent, dark, with that environment
grim places where unfortunately just passed.
Batiste, just beneath the vine, without abandoning their impassive
oriental posture, biting his cigar, eyes following the progress of
the procession. It began to wave the big road, marking the coffin
and coffin like a huge white dove among the parade of clothes black
and green branches.

Well undertook the poor the way to heaven "Bishop
of the innocent! The valley, stretching voluptuous kiss under the
spring sun, the dead child wrapped with fragrant breath, accompanied
him to the grave, covering it with icing shroud of perfumes. The old
trees, that germinated with a sap of resurrection, appeared to greet
the small body shaking branches in the breeze laden with flowers.
Death never happened on earth in disguise so beautiful.

Disheveled
and roaring like crazy, waving his arms wildly, appeared at the door
of the cabin the two unhappy women. Their voices like a groan endless
prolongábanse in the quiet atmosphere of the valley, marked by soft
light.

- Fill meu! ... Mehu Anima! [22] - wailed the poor Teresa
and her daughter.

[22] - My son ... My soul!

- Goodbye, Pascualet!
... Bye - shouted sips tears.

- Auuu! Auuu! - Howling dog, tending
his nose with a whimper endless twitching nerves and the valley seemed
to shake under a shiver funeral.

And from afar, through the branches,
crawling over the green waves of the fields, answered echoes of a
waltz that was accompanying the poor "Bishop to eternity, swinging
your basket braided white gold. Convoluted scales of the cornet, his
antics diabolical seemed a laugh death metal, with the child in her
arms away through the splendors of the valley.

In the late afternoon
were returning the courtship.

The small, deprived of sleep by the
upheavals of the previous night, they had visited death, slept on
the chairs. Teresa and her daughter, rendered by the crying, exhausted
energy after many sleepless nights had finally become inert, falling
on that bed that still had the imprint of the poor child