 

      And graceful youth
    that the arena walking,
    and tertiary layer
    and round the fence.

      
    
    Middle third (Ill
    have third) cattle juros Absentee inherited.

      
    
    The present glories
    forgotten breed, moves made new tenderness.

      
    
    And while the absent
    moans, cries and sorrow,
    and sad accent sings
    his complaints: Cursed be those who trust a woman is left.

The intention that the singer gave the last verses was so hard, so soft accent and circumstances
so clear, that Mary, without being more inward, left hovering in his eyes the tears more tender
and more love and tenderness, but perhaps to turn his head, and finding Muley's angry view, that
neither an atom nor lose the edge of tears, such was the shock that the already overwhelmed as opposed
lover who felt frightened and confused as taking cruel faint, barely
had time to drop into the arms of the maidens around were.

With a leap he had made himself the foot of the beautiful bating gentleman,
if his will had not prevented a strong arm that held him, and succeeded
by fainting, and was preparing to get close to fainting.

- Who are
you? - Tiger voice shouted Muley -.

Who are you to come to disturb the celebrations of the main people, and set snares to the wives
of who is better than you?

- Who is to be - said the usurer, who wanted to know your love and cleverly beat mood - who must
be, but the noble knight Don Lope Zúñiga Guzmán Dávalos and Pacheco, richly in these parts
heir, lord of the villas Alchor and Ferreyra, Merino was of the Queen, King's page, the commander
of your third, dear Emperor, y. .. not heard more, as Muley, with
a boat who threw to Don Lope, began the most frightful din.

Don Lope, to be subjected, apostrophes, get free, drop out and put a dagger in hand, everything
was one, would not have escaped any serious injury to the furious
beat of Muley, not to wear a dress under a sharp smack clothes in
Milan.

Repaired and such a hit, the revolt ON or started since the Moors
to a voice saying:

- Please our prince Muley, Death to the Spaniards.

Don Lope, though without a sword, driving the dagger as alive and artfully, that right around the
person appeared to have opened wide moat in reaching its armed wing, which made him under cover
of the most spirited, but the wrath of Muley was shaking a lot, and their danger growing at
every moment. Old Christians who were there, prevented by the hand and not ready for such a revolt,
they could hardly get rid of the crowd Moorish and narrowness of
the place.

In this, they all went to work in an atom of time, heard the voice of the soldier, said:

- Brother Cigarral, the healing that began Mary, wrap the danger of my master.

And to say this, and throw in on crutches, and unwind with one hand
this eye sickly and grapple with each other, and throw that black
patch, and to throw down the bridge of a crutch, and take a terrible
sword and pull the other stick, and repeat one of the same steel was
made thing before hearing.

- In your help I am, and your hand I have,
Don Lope - said the soldier -, let us remember of Porma and closes
Spain.

With this, and therefore, those who seemed so bent members, convoluted and cramped, showed that
elasticity and vigor, that opening up the street with so much nonchalance as soldier bravery,
he rolled a coat on his arm he saw, without knowing how, next to the brave knight, and armed it
with one of those swords machine took the soldier.

Was to see, while the confused shouting, the pity of women, the paroxysms of these, the prayers of
those and the cries and sufferings of all. What fell, which hastened by catch theft doors,
seeking safety in flight, and what, they were most main, forming a circle around Mary, claimed
they wanted to divide a common fate, begging and pleading some other
that differs from other cases such as anger and fight.

Two swords as skilled and can handle soon tipped to win the Christian band. Muley, in spite of
all, it contained his own, repairs and improvements as more to story could, but an enemy, with whom
he had, placed at the mercy of their opponents. The rogue mutt, like I understood the danger
they were in theirs, or because they were trained also to play these pieces, this is that
since the beginning of the dance is not amused but to pass and repass, tangle and trip between
the feet of the Moors, knocking many, pregnant and trying not to just finally Muley prison, for traversing
much to the purpose behind the back of the Moor, when he broke in retreat, became entangled miserably
and fell to the ground without being able to recover.

All loaded on it, but their swords two opposites, and friendly guards,
freed him from all insult.

- Arise - Don Lope said.

- I do so -
said the mayor - but to surrender to the mercy of justice, and much
more since voices are coming Ferdinand Muley the coast of Barbary.

The Gerif, whose displeasure was so great principle revolt, and that more demonstrations that
he could not appease her, he wanted to bring their respect to excuse from prison to his nephew; but
all was in vain, because the suspect deals that were in rebellion, and surnamed Prince during
the scuffle, were not easy chapters amendment. However, the authority Don Lope reached that
Muley from attending as a prison in the home of the mayor, while he silenced one and could provide
for others.

Creek tasting and made boats, fendientes, lunges, slashes and Claymore of the revolt, was as
usual, be greater than the benefit saves, I mean it came down to not many of spades and four lift
head dents. The fear of offending women did not allow fighters strike with the wisdom that
had been used to measure body the body and in the open field. Notwithstanding this, few regrets
were felt so sad everyone thought he had the great misfortune happened, but no such duels and
lastimerías were more than the sobs of Bermúdez and cries of usury: the former, other touch I
had just lost, and that, by looking broken and stained in all the finery.

CHAPTER IV

It was the same time, was the proper place and one fronting the broken bridge, under the beautiful
walnut and right beside that fountain clear, he looked a man sitting,
but very different trace to the blind and crippled beggar with whom
we communicate knowledge to start of this story.

This character, on the contrary, seemed to enjoy the best agility of its members, was harder
as the years and virile, who arrived at forty, and with such samples of robustness and strength,
seeing that if it causes embarrassment and jump in front of you defend
a place or street, in exchange would make the more confident the world
who bring with them and look after next.

A well brought suede trousers and worn, but still good service, we took those legs, so before
heading and doodle, a colored breeches were attached to a robe soldiers, who came in half sleeves
in the middle of the arm, made wide turns with colorado tabi. The robe was closed on a strong and
robust doublet, which somewhat bulging back, concluded on the same wrist defending his arm.
A flange blue, if not bristling at least much glue, you encanutaba the neck, and a bell-crown
hat, trouser feathered, wide skirts, and they made four points ahead of softest silk with gold
out and put an end to such a figure. Super filisberta Toledo, was between his knees, leaning on
her hands, a dagger Flemish seemed at the waist, and its trace picaril and its degustation perverse
and evil, you judge any of the genealogy and lineage of the famous
Rinconetey Cortadillo.

Seated as he was well and softly, and this hoarse, and more leaning
to the bronco that to the gentle, amused himself singing this:

MORET

I
was born very poor, Oh what a pain!

        Well, I'm still
        poor, But this
    is today tomorrow.
    
        That he despises Value alive!, death in battle, At last luck crowned
him.

        
        
    Lid and war has Yes,
    living God, it runs
        the given and soldier Count to go.

        
        
    Navarro and others More
    than two!, soldiers
        were do rose by I will go.

        
        
    My King D. Carlos
    Into Paris! and
        God and him alone from pole to pole have to rule.

        
        
    And for prizes, Aniseed!,
    such bravery and
        God sends a couple of orbs.

        
        
    Captain Stand,
    Spanish bravo!,
        Pizarro looks a halberd failure to Peru.

        
        
    That what is true,
    Or lying in the
        sun!, a pica bravo, Oh illustrious out!, You know that.

        
        
    Go to the land.
    Here we go!, I will
        gold of a Moorish king I will conquer

O to top Be happy! so lucky,
a princess Marry me.

        
        
    I'll esclavillos,
    Ah, ah, la, la, ruby,
        topaz, four palaces and a large border.

        
        
    And nobleman Lara,
    lara! with primogeniture,
        of a surfeit finally die.

        
        
    By giving these songs,
    sung, as they say,
        a capella, without compass or help from any instrument, and only
with the good or bad company of his rough throat, hence hele sticking
out the top of the path an extremely gallant and brave knight, who
remains the same was presented last night to party, still bore now
with all the trappings of galas, Argentería feathers and convenient
to the kindness and quality of Don Lope de Zuniga.

        
        
    The blind and disabled
    without manquedad
        view, now newly restored throughout the value their legs and well
corrected and amended its members disengage and reach saw the gentleman,
bareheaded and ahinojándose hat reverently, he began to say:

- Sorry,
sorry, a thousand times pity for the good of Cigarral Mateo, itchy
soldier who was Francisco company of Carvajal in Italy, then in the
third harquebusier Zamudio, and then continued the illustrious person
of illustrious knight Don Lope de Zuniga.

I I confess, sir, that no amendment to the past mistakes to your order got paid one hundred
ducats Ghent the bourgeois Guillelmo waffle: confiésome also that without a mandate, or password
the master of the field or other superior, with more courage than discretion, the deal started,
usurping the title had no lord of them in that black suit and painted negotiated. Confiésome (And
is the worst confession) not attaching my consummate skill and experience,
I was broken up and given as a grant, that unless a piece of eight
they gave me cheap, God knows what was in my stomach, I mean me.

How, after so unhappy resubmitted day my sinful degustation? How do I take you to court so
my conscience dirty, clean and stark as martens hands? Crying my misfortune, remembering my many
merits, taking the award back, aching from the blows and goodbye
future in mind not only you, but those captives hundred ducats, as
mourned as lost, decided to return to Spain and seek game in the adventures
of the Indies.

Not paying fief to inns and taverns, not being so devoted to rosemary, and suspecting that my
Dress soldiers recruited me to living force for these flags of Italy, decided to take shelter
one of many costumes as I learned and studied with the noble knight in the industry. Long
were my wanderings, I have been assaulted curious adventures, and with them entertain you hours
of road travel or leisure, these sea or those on land, if they deserve attrition and contrition
for my timore et tremor, back to sit in their service and attend close to his illustrious person.
Always tell, with good fairness and equity, that contrary balance of these peccadilloes and
missteps, I bring into account and data, no services soldier, to reward you as you are not the
Emperor, but my good genius at the time you served, the welcome will you ever had and so many
sword and gave it to your side several occasions. Do not charge anything or shred recent appreciation
in his belt last night I cashed it unexpectedly health and healing that took place in my infirmity,
I take and I aim for good, legitimate and very solvency.

Who knows where it had been the nonsense, mockery and Flat bolts Cigarral soldier's Moya, if
D. Lope had not raised with the greatest affection, hugging and talking conmenzándole of his past
wanderings and adventures!

In short the story is that D. Lope Endon and forgave him the backward Cigarral trabacuentas, including
the bourgeois hundred ducats waffle, Lydia, and overcome in the black negotiated wood and paint,
concluding that ceremony that good maula entered the service again D. Lope.

Cigarral was added to it by which events, walk to Sevilla in search for the fleet Peru and
in languages ??of their captain Carvajal, had come to this village, where his beggar disguise,
moving the pious condition of Mary, delayed one day to another day the pilgrimage to this
predicament.

- No doubting myself - went on the soldier - furnished an excuse for this evil thought events that
happened now, and without it being seen in a tilde offend the charity of Mary that the Waqf
extended to the disabled Cigarral intervened and valid at much merits
of D. Lope de Zuniga, because I do know, sir, beyond telling, lying
here, and forever altering the truth, as does every traveler, I managed
to name one of many novels your name and condition, and no doubt that
since then I deserved more attention and kindness, If I say no more
charity and alms, of that beautiful lady of your thoughts.

Luengo conferred the space formerly known and now again confirmed master and squire on ways to implement
an interview with Mary, and certainly his helmet, and closely Gerif
taken into custody by his uncle, since the events of the night.

The fantastic story and at this point, no purpose will be noted what circumstances had, and
what thoughts were encouraging more of these our main characters.

Don Lope, reached the Emperor's leave to bond with the illustrious as beautiful lady Maria de
Granada, and was in the galleys of Lewis and landed in Spain, did not think but being himself so nice
messenger new, and with little entourage and infinite hopes then wanted to go as the village where
he knew his beloved attend.

Fearing that the hatred of a proud family that dethroned him mock his aspirations and his love,
had tried to interest around the Emperor, who, meanwhile, watched with pleasure those links
revolt could remove all the shoots of the grains.

The Moors, always stare at their independence and revenge, they kept
their love of that family that had held for so many years in Spain
the faltering power of Granada Arab making the most beautiful city
in the world.

The discontent of the vanquished nation had its intercadencias as and that the policy of the
Court's flattered or oppressed; but it is true that ill-assorted with the religion they had
embraced the strength, senses with bundles and imposts that were breast, ordinances offended they
proclaimed, and angry with the arrogance of the victors, but did
not expect appropriate occasion to churn, It's tempting to neighboring
kingdoms of Africa, and the new and formidable power from Constantinople
threatened the entire Christian world.

Gerif, who reached on foot in their first few years the Lordship of
the Alhambra could not separate of memory that past glory, as neither
of his soul the most vehement passion for their nation unhappy, looking
very happy at the riots that his nephew was up to Muley.

Mary trembled with such appearances, as his mother, who drank the water of baptism that Archbishop
of Granada who was called by the Holy Praise the Moors, gave to his daughter the tenderest attachment
to the Christian religion. Committed to the love of D. Lope, and it was absent to the day Emperor
of Germany, an orphan living far from the palaces of Granada, cheering with his presence Gerif
tired old man's eyes.

Muley, captivated by the charms of his cousin, he himself had designed
and named in advance to award their hopes and crown of his work since
that would give the cry of independence, while knowing that nothing
would run best seen as the link to dabble more and more the will of
its Moorish.

Gerif, although I try not urged at all to Mary for the love of Muley,
with all While showing the pleasure they would see well together the
last offspring of the Pomegranate, as Christians say, or Benezeritas,
according to the Arab genealogists.

Don Lope, suspecting at least some of such capital ambushes, burned to be seen with Mary to paint
more vividly what he said on the ticket just reached their whitest pilgrims hands means that
we have already reported.

These and other like-minded, no more flattering and less suspicious, going through my head the
young knight during the symposium Cigarral, which is read by the sagacity squire the latter, without
delay spoke to his master in this way:

- Certainly, sir, very much agraviáis my high capacity and very little you have my witty Magin,
if you inquietáis for so little, let sorrow and know that the son
is held you know a good time to catch the beat.

Marie spent every day and this hour for this same place, coming from the orchards for recreation
has Gerif in these failures of the valley. If, as is presumed, seeing enemies in campaign, Gerif
resolved without being defensive very much abandon the walls of his
house and has brokers who churn up the estrada very closely, and if
overly fearful and cautious, determined to build bridges and rakes
and declare formal siege, I have already slipped through his own as
a spy, that very quickly inform us of any enemy movement.

The market certain young man, boy awake and awake, envisions the bars of Mary, and my mutt, which
has lead in this notice, is at this very moment where you would want to find you, that is, in the
eyes of the very high and very illustrious lady Dona Maria de la
Granada, awarded wife ... but hele, hele to do is our messenger, the
mutt, which will give us all languages.
