 D. Narciso advantage this
shadow of rivalry to keep them more prone. - Oh, ladies, should not
envy you the privilege!

You have husbands who watch and serve.

She said in an ironic twang that demonstrated that the chaplain secret
hostility felt towards all the husbands.

The ladies in the charms of those who did not exercise any fascination and, forced smile and mischievously
as saying: "Ya, ya!" It was whispered that he had several love with him. Ms Marciala, the wife
of the apothecary of the place, had gone to Sarrió to bring socks to be a priest passing time
with her family. Ms Filomena, widow of a lieutenant, his only son was going to help to Mass every
day. However, he had noticed in him a preference Obdulia, the daughter of Osuna, manager of Montesinos.
- But it really did go like? - Asked the young artisan, listening
to his partner so plainly. - Girl, I do not know!

What I can say is that D. Narcissus leaves the house, and many days
of my window I see them run one after another in the garden of Montesinos
play hide and seek ... So much so that I told. - Have you told him!
- Exclaimed the other, stunned. - Yes, girl ... Can not you see I
confess to him?

...
There was nothing ... I said, 'Look, D. Narciso ... do not be offended
... but I, you and Obdulia watching them play in the garden, I have
suspicions ... I can think evil thoughts.

"- Ave Maria, how awful!

And what did he say? - He got all choked ... Ugh! Began to say: "For you and others like you
lose the credit and honor priests and religious decay!"

I called bag of malice, that I could not believe that such atrocities
occurred, and that here and there ... At first I wanted to eat, then
went quieting ... "You're right, D. Narciso, I replied, but I can
not help ... "And it's true, girl I can not help it ... I can not!

After the letter
Peñascosa pastor sang the Gospel.

He had a raspy voice without inflection. Without looking completely distracted sang just the book, lifting
his eyes small and hard over the glasses to look at him, rather,
to spray with an eye to the Pepaina son, who was secretly starting
to drool and saving candles pocket.

Although one of the most shameless rascals of the town, Lorito (which
by that name was known this young man distinguished) was disturbed
and uneasy under the gaze tantico cleric.

The thing with good reason. D. Miguel Vigil, pastor of rock, from the 25 year of this century was one
of the worst men of genius of Spain, and not exaggerate if we say nothing of the globe.