 Today the old Moorish capital of that kingdom is in their mass but a large poblachon - ugly sad,
almost solitary and very noticeable decline from his past. Its walls are in ruins (of which
there is no reason to complain) and in the midst of the rubble grow orange and pomegranate
trees to keep the poetic tradition of the Eastern world that lies there become bones and dust.
HOWEVER, is conserved in all aspect of the city Arab air, both by the structure of the streets
and all the houses, for the forms of the most remarkable monuments, the nature of manufacturing
and farming, especially the physiognomy of the race.

Cordoba is par excellence a bygone city - a sanctuary of multiple memories, but Eastern mainly. Except
for the railroad station, which makes the morrow, all encourages others to stop wandering spirit
in the region of the past. Yes, up to the high tower overlooking the great courtyard of the mosque-cathedral,
contemplate the city and its fields neighbors, the show is beautiful but sad. Each object
is an evocation. The walls in many from Roman times, do remember that Cordova was the homeland
of the two Senecas and Lucan, - as it was many centuries after Góngora (which has served as a model
for so many scribes, which not writers), de Cespedes, Zambrano and other remarkable men. Looking
at the cathedral, is recalled to its founder Abderraman, like noticing the famous bridge of
the Guadalquivir VIII century work. And if you tend your eyes on the multitude of churches and convents
populate the city and over the dark arcades of the Plaza-Mayor, recognizing the Spanish genius
has presided over the destinies of the country since the time of the reconquest in the thirteenth
century. Whenever something seal four successive civilizations more or less profoundly modified
social physiognomy. And yet, the predominant type is the more useful, more social, more industrial:
Arabic, - because no domination was so rich and so well understood necessities of life such
as Moorish. Even in the dominant vegetation of this type Córdoba. Is there some palm trees that
are truly ancient monuments. One of them passes have been planted by Mansur. Centuries have passed
over their floating plumes, and these to balance even whisper the legends of Eastern time.

Strange
city to the viewer on his first trip the terms of architecture and Moorish strategy!