 I acknowledge that
would have been better for my work that I had written an idyll, a pastoral romance, even a story
like that of Paul and Virginia [1] or Atala and Rene, [2] but this, although more entertaining
and moral, there would have been the portrait of any living person, or description customs and
passions of a people of flesh and blood, subject to special political laws and civil rights, embedded
in a certain order of ideas and surrounded by real and positive influences. Far to invent or fake
characters and fanciful and improbable scenes, I've taken the realism I understand, to the point
of presenting the main characters in the novel with all their hair and signs, as they say, wearing
the suit he wore in life, most under his real first and last name, speaking the same language
used in the historical scenes that included, in what could be copied, d'après nature [3] its
moral and physical appearance, so that those who knew them by sight or by tradition, easily
recognize them and say at least: the resemblance is undeniable.

Hardly have aspired to something else. All I have to add in my conscience, if someone deems
that painting is nothing holy or edifying is that, by placing the action of the novel in the Havana
theater and season run from 1812 to 1831, I found characters that could represent faithfully the paper
medium, for example, the payo Lorenzo, or Don Abundio the timid, or the energetic Father Christopher,
the saint or the Archbishop Carlos Borromeo, to step abounded that could happen, without contradiction,
faithful copies of the pipes, the stagehands and Don Rodrigo, thugs, brave and libertine,
whose generation seems to be all countries and all ages.

Neither should be attributed to lack of the author if the picture is not shown, no lesson, not
teach delight. The most I have been given to do is to refrain from any indecent or vulgar paint,
missing was easy to make, bearing in mind the conditions, the character and passions of the
majority of actors in the novel, because I have never believed that the writer public in an
effort to seem true and accurate painter of manners, you forget that you deserve respect virtue
and modesty of the reader.

Moreover, if the work comes to light now complete, contains all speech defects and style that
brought the first volume printed in Havana, if there is greater fairness and truth in painting
characters, if they are removed certain scenes and little phrases or doubtful morality, if the
general tone of the composition is more uniform and animated, in much part to the advice of
my wife, with whom I have consulted chapter after chapter, As was
concluded.

C. VILLAVERDE

New York, May, 1879

PART

CHAPTER I

Such is the fruit
of sin, Tello, harvest of pain.

     
      SOLIS

        

Towards dusk one day in November 1812, following the street Compostela direction north of the
city, a carriage pulled by two mules, one of which, as was customary, he rode the black coachman.
The latter suit, the garrisons of those and solid silver ornaments, showed clearly that the person
was rich belonging as luxurious luggage. Was pinned to the cabochons, not only from the front, but
also on one side and the other half - the curtain or cloth cap with a band of cowhide. Be
the one who held the carriage was at the time, there is no denying he was interested in save the
mystery, though it seemed excused caution, since there was no living soul in the streets, or
another light could see the stars, or some artificial houses that escaped through the wide cracks
of closed doors.

Suddenly stopped the mules trotted into the corner of the alley of San Juan de Dios and left
space and no little trouble with the buggy a tall, good job, evening dress black buttoned to
the neck, revealing underneath the vest or light-colored waistcoat, carranclán pants up, tie
bristle and beaver hat with enormous glass wing narrow. As could be discerned in the half light
of the stars, the factions most notable were the nose man, who was hooked, very bright eyes,
the face oval and small beard. The color of it and the hair, shades and hat altered the convent
walls neighbor, obscured perhaps without being black.

- Follow up the street from the Stoned - said the gentleman in an imperious tone, lower support
left hand on the saddle of the mule yards - and looks away to the corner. If round to give
you, say you belong to Don Joaquin Gomez and awaiting orders. Do you understand, Pio?

- Yes, sir, "replied the coachman, who since he started talking about his master had his hat
in hand.

And following the passage of mules to the point that you said that.

Alley San Juan de Dios consists of two blocks only, closed at one end on the walls of the convent
of Santa Catalina and the other in the houses of the street Havana. The hospital of San Juan de
Dios, which gives its name, and which high and square windows, always let out the hot breath of
the sick, occupies an entire side of the second block and the other three small houses and a single
red tile floor, the last notably higher than the street level, with one and two stone steps to the
door. The best looking of them were entering the first block of the street de Compostela. Were
all the same size, more or less, single window and door, this cedar with large-headed nails,
painted brick, or mirror it or flown [4] and thick wooden balusters. The floor of the street was in
its primitive natural state, rocky and without sidewalks.

The strange gentleman, leaning against the walls, under the projecting eaves tiles stopped at
the door of the third house on the right and gave two taps with the tip fingers. There no doubt
waiting for him, because soon open what it took to move from door window to the person who removed
the gate that closes on the inside. That was be the mistress of the house, mulatto and 40 years
of age, of medium height, filled with meats, but retained the narrow waist, rounded shoulders, bare,
beautiful head, the rather thick nose, mouth, expressive and very
curly thick hair.

Embroidered shirt wore thin, shirts, and twill skirts without folds or no embellishment.

There was little furniture in the room, leaning against the right wall a mahogany table on which
burned a wax candle in a windshield or lantern, and several heavy chairs cedar cowhide seat and back,
nailed with brass tacks. At that time this had the luxury, much more for a woman of color,
who occupied that room as love and not as a maid. The gentleman shook his hand as he entered,
he only bowed serious while being funny and kind that no contest was even stranger, because
apart their difference in status and race, their respective ages was remarkable at first view and there
was no other relationship between them than friendship, more or less sincere and selfless. Then
he asked in sad tone and approaching women as he could, so as not
to raise voice, that had some anger:

- What about the patient?

The mulatto shook his head in even sadder and said three monosyllables:

-
Ah! badly.

Something more lively, but not despejársele the face, added a little later:

- Did not I the Lord? Entodavía it has to end the coup.

- Why, the gentleman replied ill at ease, did not you told me last night that was better and quiet?

-
I was, yes, sir, but last week has very desinquieta and agitated. He said he gave heat sheets,
it burned the head, and several times tried to get out of bed gasping for air. So it was necessary
to send for the doctor. Wine and prescribed a sedative: took it, because the poor thing takes as
given. Of its result and sleeps like a stone, dispierta and startled. Ay, sir, your dream is
so like death!

I'm afraid, very fear. I told him Mr. the outset, the blow was too
much.

That girl not have the strength to endure. Ah! my lord, this made the miss, I'm looking; has
given me heart.

And he said no more, because the emotion in his voice choked her throat.

- I see you flinch, sign Josefa, "said the stranger softly and feeling. Why, has not tried to
convince you that separation is only a short time? It's not her any girl ...

- What if I have not tried! The Lord seems to not know entodavía. She does not listen to reason.
Is cabecidura the most willful and he was born.

Furthermore, from then that set is not in his right trial and reason. Does the Lord himself
did not try that fatal night to comfort her and reassure her? What drew? Remember what semos:
nothing. The Lord will see for themselves that was chosen bad time to subject it to such a test.
There had been forty days and then Flying had a fever. Yes, and concluded quite shocked and tearful
- I have swallowed me that it does not leave it to trial or alive.

- God will want, Josefa sign that they are not made such dire predictions, said the knight worried.
After a short time he said: - She is young and robust, and yet the nature triumph over all their woes
and sorrows. Trust more in this than in the dark science of physicians. Other than that, you
know you've done done for the good of all rather ... Later I thank you, I'm sure. I could
not and should give her my name. No, no, repeated as embarrassed the echo of his own voice. Nobody
knows better than you. You she is a woman of reason, know and confess that it had to be. Requires
that the girl takes a name, a name that no be ashamed tomorrow, or these other day, Valdes,
that might make a good marriage. To this there was no choice but to pass by the Royal Creche.
This has not been more painful for the mother, I know, that ... all of us. But in a few days the
baptized and then I'll have to bring her here Mary Rule, my woman, that three months it lost a son
from the evil of the seven days, and breastfeeding in order Creche mine. She will return healthy,
and Christian save his mother's arms. I have a fixed all that with Montes de Oca, a doctor from
the Royal House, who often know by the girl.

Al beginning to cry a lot and refused to take the breast of Mary Rule, so enflaqueció a little.
But all that has happened and is now plump and rosy, that is, as I have been informed Montes
de Oca, because I have not seen since the night that I go through the turnstile ... My eyes went
after her. Words can not express how much I took that step ... But otherwise. You know, however,
that there is no mistake.

- Too much I know - said the mulatto wiping away tears. Can not err, no. For Regarding why I'm
quiet, like that in spite of her shrieks, which broke my heart, I made the blue crescent in the
left shoulder, according to Mr. I ordered. I do not know who would hurt more if her or me ... Mother,
mother, my lord, is what got me restless. She can not resist. By force loses his mind or life.
I will repeat the Lord.

Josefa sign, as he called the stranger, knew he was smart woman, but by neglect of their education
often incurred in the common faults of the vulgar language the people in Cuba. Despite the
maturity of their years and their sorrows, retained samples a young beautiful and distinguished,
kindly, loving expression of the mouth and roundness neck, shoulders and arms. He had the
sallow color of the mixture resulting black female and a male Indian, but curly hair and oval
face did not support probability of such marriage, but the black
mother and white father.

When Young took comfortable life, had joys and brushed with people well-bred and well-mannered. Honda
had to be the grief that at the time the afflicted, as were the frequency of sighs repeated contraction
of his eyebrows and the abundance of aqueous humor in their swimming big eyes and dimmed the
brightness. Moreover, his attitude was more despair than true regret. Indeed, as we shall
see, had every reason for one and not missing for that.

It had moments that both characters were silent, each in turn with their own thoughts, insurance
that did not coincide at any point in time that they heard a moan and a piercing scream hatched inside
the house. The woman gave a painful cry, took both hands to the head and ran as desalinated
by the first chamber to the second quarter. Mechanically the gentleman did with his hands the
same movement and quietly followed suit, although at a distance. There was no more light than the fading
of an oil lamp in a table on which stood an altar niche or puppeteer, where a figure revered size, with
robe or woman, who looked to the sky and had stuck a sword in the chest, which looked like silver
handle. On the opposite side was a bed, with silk hangings, and faded, and the head was a
leather chair, that when there came a sign Josefa had vacated an elderly black woman, scrawny,
image of death, whose white hair contrasted ebony with its long neck and bony. He had in his
right hand a rosary and several scapulars the breast on white shirt;
spans the size of the canvas skirt, a black belt and long to the Augustinian
friar.

I was like embedded or praying with great fervor, and touch Josefa sign on the shoulder, suddenly
raised his head, turned to the door of the room, she saw the stranger standing, made a gesture
of horror or fright and disappeared the back door without a word.

Josefa sign took its place. Gingerly opened the curtains of the bed, and by signs told Knight
to come close to what he did, apparently in disgust. Their eyes stared into the pale face of
a girl of 20 years, lying face up and apparently dead. Why not move at the time, had sunken eyes
and eyelids closed, which eyelashes were so long that shaded cheeks. The head was all I had out
of the sheets, and that almost buried in the pillow, which disappeared under a bush black hair,
wavy and spread everywhere in the greatest disorder. Middle of that black background highlighted
the oval face, pale wax ill with acute beard, square, high forehead, small mouth, lips, lips,
nose and very well done Women of mixed race, as indeed was it that now in question. The set was
well, women's, but had such a look of anguish and melancholy in his
face withered by the disease, which was pitiful to the viewer.

Moved by this feeling may sign Josefa whispered the gentleman - has fallen asleep.

The gentleman's response was shaking his head negatively, perhaps because at that moment thought
he noticed a convulsive shudder that ran from head to foot the entire body of the patient.
After the quake laid at the feet began chest, easily perceived motion over the sheet, as a calm
sea wave that picks up suddenly and sigh precursor then blew the bottom of the heart, accompanied
by an acute painful groan. Understanding the gentleman what should occur, could not help it,
paragraphs one and hidden view and gradually withdrew to the foot
of the bed.

Built at the moment the patient, exclaimed with an air of dread:

-
Mommy!

Was their mercy?

- My daughter! What? Are you better?

- Ah! Mammy! continued the girl in the same air of bewildered .--
I've seen, just see.

Yes, I have no doubt.

There he is! added, pointing to the sky.

It goes! I take it! Must be dead. Ah - and let slip another piercing scream.

- Child! I watched the grieving mother. Dispierta.

You're dreaming or wishful thinking those are yours.

- Come here, Mommy, look at your mercy itself.
Saying it's attracted to her by the arm.

- See it! Is not that the
Blessed Virgin in a cloud of gold, in bare feet, supported on the
wings of angels infinite? She is. Look! Here. There! See. Soar!

-
Vision, my daughter. Never mind. Lie down and rest.

- Do you want
your mercy I sleep, if I carried my daughter, the daughter of my womb?

-
But who takes it, my life?

- Who takes it? Did not you see their
mercy? The Blessed Virgin. He takes her in his arms. She must be dead