 "But where
I had to get the student that all the glories Hindustani, all pilgrims treasures in this photograph
is surrounded?

- Look, sister, my friend is so rich and so abundant in his home objects of all kinds, that the
same appears as Hindustani in the picture could appear Greek time of Pericles, Egyptian magnate time of
the Pharaohs and the Ptolemies, contemporary Mirza Hafiz or feudal lord of the century of the
First Crusade. And always with the jewels, workmanship, requirements and other accessories that characterize
each character and are unique. Ziegesburg Isidoro, in short, has the most complete and wonderful
antiques and curio bazaar there in Vienna. What do I say in Vienna? in Europe there is none
to equal it. Isidoro, and by what he inherited from his father, for what has brought from his
travels around the world for four years, is the most notable and reputable of all flea. Understand
what happened and why I laugh. I laugh without being able to help.

And the Count Henry was laughing, and blushing Poldy as poppies, almost give him blows.

The count saw that his sister was furious, restrained his laughter and continued:

- I understand everything, because Isidore has a lovely country house five miles from this
castle. No stranger to ignore it, because you're always in the clouds, rapt in your dreams and
seeing the reality of things. Without doubt, in that cottage, must have Isidoro some domesticated
animals, including storks and white. Had a day's whim neck hanging from the stork three Sanskrit
poetry, truly made for him because is very clever and used student.

He wanted to tease someone, without providing for those who tease. And as luck that the lines
fall into your hands and you were you the teased.

What else could have happened, you know better than me.

- Yes I know, "said Poldy, and sadder and more dejected than angry. And now I ask: Is incompatible
to be odds-and belonging to the nobility?

- In any way incompatible. Subject of many bells in the day like today to bazaars, and buying
and selling antiques and curios of all kinds. I have heard Isidoro say the same, having just
returned from his travels, in Lisbon, had tremendous dime no less
than Palha, individual one of the most illustrious and ancient Portuguese
families, as witnessed by Cervantes in Don Quixote.

And without going so far in the very capital of Austria, is an egregious count who has a store
of glassware, and a very distinguished gentleman who has wool fabrics in the streets of Carinthia.
Why then, without dishonor of its bells and coats of arms, not having a dime a man of noble
lineage?

- Perhaps, said Poldy, Isidore of Ziegesburg into that account.

Perhaps your name on the genealogical table of the princely houses, ducal and comital, published
every year the Almanac de Gotha, or at least in the book of the counts, which also gives annually
to the press the same publisher Just Perthes.

- Do not kid yourself, buddy. Do not get tired.

I must tell you the truth, even grieve. And the truth Isidoro Ziegesburg is a Jew.

As soon as the Count Henry had uttered that word, that sounded like the trumpet of doom in
Poldy ears burning, raised and educated by his mother and his aunt, from the tender children in
the most ferocious anti-Semitism, when Poldy began to tremble like a restless and had a violent
fit of nervous laughter.

So violent was that Count Henry was filled with fear, called the
nurse and had to bring in a cup of lime Poldy.

When he finally calmed Poldy, and when he passed his insane laughter, began to sigh and sob, and
poured a flood of tears.

It still felt an odd twitch. With the handkerchief
wiped away the tears, but he rubbed the handkerchief with violence
by the cheeks and lips, as if to pulling the skin and kisses that
she had stamped the Indian prince, converted at odds-Israelite.

XI

After
Poldy got a little calm, fell silent and deep melancholy. Nothing
told her brother or his nurse. They did not dare to question Poldy.
Locked in her room, he was about to walk in the woods. Hardly could
be seen and treated by people in the castle lived