 Would he have died in India or had emigrated from India
to another distant region, forgetting the forest ingratitude Liebestein Castle and Poldy friendship?

In
these distressing doubt spent the entire month of April.

It was the first of May.

Poldy, almost desperate, and of seeing the stork came, not However, as usual, between ten
and eleven in the morning, at the edge of the lagoon.

Barely two minutes that was there, absorbed, pensive and melancholy setting long please look at
the calm water, when a hasty sound of wings coming closer his whole
body shook and delight your soul with pleasant shock.

The white stork had been flying, had fallen a few steps away, and I approached him with their
slow and stately and giving way to the peak of castañetazos that used to always say hello.

Indescribable was the joy of Poldy. His impatience was greater than his joy. Driven for their impatience,
threw his hands around the neck of wading birds, and began looking for the cord or tape from
which depends the answer to your letter expected. What a cruel affliction had then! No letter was pending.
No tape or cord was hanging. A point was Poldy to mourn with rage. But the stork, as if divining
her feelings, opened the long wings and to the point with joy and
surprise Poldy warned that the stork had under the left wing and very
well tied there with a strong and subtle braid feathers hid under
a spliff or long thin roll.

Poldy seized him immediately and felt it was very light, which was sealed and stamped and was
so strong rope seal and was so well-tied, he could not break not
occur without scissors.

On the exterior surface of the roll, it looked written in language German songs: To His Excellency
the gracious Miss Countess of Liebestein Poldy.

He Poldy some love to the stork in order to show his gratitude, and even some say he kissed her head
in glad tidings of good message. Poldy then ran to the castle lock herself in her room, cut the
tape with scissors and see what the roll contained. There on the roll several objects Poldy was successively
examined. It was a sight picture, neat and brilliantly illuminated with colors, an extensive
and magnificent Oriental room, full Pilgrim's workmanship and elegance. In any one could see and
admire stunning lap of luxury unblemished and very tasteful. It seems that was what the prodigious
underground chamber where Aladdin find the Genie Lamp. Hung from the walls bright weapons, Indian,
Chinese and Japanese, hanging ceiling lamps carved gold were around vases, jars and glasses,
artfully carved of precious metals, very rare jaspers of ancient porcelain and work ataujía
or fine gems, ivory, bronze and other rich materials. Several idols degustation of strange and
symbolic ways, and characterized the authorized stay. There were represented Agni, the god of fire,
Kamala or Kamela, Venus in India, whose name come, in our vulgar
language Camama, camel and its derivatives, and there were also Indra
Varuna and even the Trimurti.

First, on a splendid Alcatifa of Persia, and sitting on soft cushions Silk, beautifully embroidered,
resembled a man in the prime of youth, covered of white and rosy robe and crowned the gentle head
of a large turban, candid also, on which stood a plume or tuft of curly feathers beautiful,
and grasped the plume the turban by a huge goatee of pearls, diamonds and rubies, which was worth
an empire. Before the man had several tables dwarfs, where golden and embossed trays, in light
baskets, in slender vases and chalices glazed, offered gift of sight of smell and taste, liqueurs,
preserves and spiced fruit. On one side and some distance the young lord, was a rich and elegant
hookah, which was flexible tube luengo young Mr. grabbed by the end, revealing the thick amber
mouthpiece, pinned to the tube by a ring of sparkling emeralds. On the opposite side of the hookah,
but much closer the young lord, rose, very funny pose, our familiar friend the white stork, Poldy
whose sight not a little pleased. Not so pleased, it was of anger and shock her, but repressed
anger, attributing what he saw long-standing and essential Oriental fashion, in the back of the room
came three Bayadere, with Apsaras suit or immortal nymphs, which wove voluptuous dance, desceñido
the transparent and light clothing, arms and feet bare, wearing down the throats of the feet and
arms, anklets and bracelets, and also revealing the back and turned round and firm breasts. Several
musicians, dressed as they say they dress the sky Gandarbas and musicians of Indra, accompanied
dance with harps, flutes and violins, and erotic songs.

Poldy was dazzled at the sight all this and formed the highest concept of radiance and wealth
of the Indian lord. Of its design staff is what the photograph does not idea was entirely satisfactory.
And it was that not the purpose of photography, and below which there was this sign: my way
of life in the East.

Another smaller picture, appeared as the young man with clearer details. Was alone, full body,
but without any attachment. His suit, although on picturesque, was more European than Indian,
but the strange hat on his head and was they call heroes in the Philippines. Dolman jacket
or tight to his body and adorned with frogs, revealed the robust forms of his torso and arms. The
pants were wide and short. From the knee to the soles wore calf boots. Earrings the wide Charpa,
also leather, belting his waist, had a gun to one side and On the other hand a large hunting
knife. In the right hand glove leather cover had double-barreled shotgun, which rested on the
ground and on which he supported. For low had a sign saying: when going to hunt tigers.

Finally, there was a third picture that left nothing to be desired. There was the young Mr. clear,
accurate and clearly portrayed. His face was so beautiful. The eyes were large and expressive,
the beard seemed silky, rich and very well kept and stroked. The nose, a as much as columbine,
gave a certain majesty to their expression. And the width and straightness of face showed unusual
intelligence. You could see in all its aspect of an indescribable kind, of sympathetic and distinguished
dearly. Their bare hands, yet strong and manly were aristocratic, very neat and pretty, with pointed
fingers at the tip and encanutadas nails, instead of being short and flat. In this portrait, the
young man was dressed entirely European use of any label, with a white tie and tails, so admirably
cut and that he liked so well, do not dream of better, or Frank, Vienna, or the tailor more Famous
London. On the low end of this portrait was another sign that read, in evening dress to go to
a dance of Lord Governor of India.

Bewitched Poldy was contemplating the portrait. Was captivated by the beauty and distinction of his distant
friend. And could not be confirmed in the belief that it was an Indian prince mediated, a nabob,
or at least a Brahmin or a Kshatriya of first order and a long stem.

Imagine now the reader the desire, the wonder, the palpitations of
joy and the rare delight Poldy'd read the letter, which also came
round and was conceived in these terms:

VIII

"I'm disgusted and
I find it hard to write letters giving the address to whom treatment,
and thus adopted the ancient custom of the Orientals.

You will allow me, a beautiful countess Poldy, which of course tute
you without ceremony.

The white stork, which nests years on the roof of the splendid house
which I own in flowery banks of the Ganges, I have brought welcome
news from you, your sweet words and your divine image.

Blessed is the white stork has made me much good. Rightly called I used to Garuda. Now I can
confirm this sacred name, with which my country is designated the God-king of all birds, the
winged destroyer of dragons and snakes.

I am extremely pleased that you are of noble removed, and old enough
to where it in a village a few centuries ago was still wild, lack
of documents and files that could prove the nobility of any person,
and the deeds of their parents.

These, wandering in the rugged jungles and harsh climate of northern countries, declined from
its forgot illustrious origin and the primitive culture of the Aryans from which Paropamiso, and
only recently have civilized, taking advantage of the studies and progress of men Noon. But what
is this what you want, you are relatively noble and just me, but my clear nobility yours preceding
two thousand years at least.

I speak frankly and disposal flattery and compliments. That will give more credit to my praise
sincere.

Garuda, whimsical and happy for my inspiration, I took some verses
that I was far much imagine that could fall into such beautiful hands.

I pondered them my disgust of what around me and the craving that consumes my soul, to find
the object, hidden and distant love to meet my aspirations, understand them and share them.

Your
picture and your writing have filled my vows. You are the woman of my dreams.

Venerable Brahmans, wise old here, who wrote of love in the Kama Sutra
and other speeches and treaties, require sixty-four powers, brands
or skills, to exist in reality Padmini or perfect woman.

I declare that, to see your picture and reading your words, you have discovered in the sixty-four
talents and you have enthroned in my heart as queen and lady, and I recognize in you my Padmini,
without whose love I can not have never bliss. Love me then, as I love you, and make me happy
as I want to what you are.

Nothing can oppose our future union. The distance does not matter. I will not take to save distance,
and the day when you least think, will appear at your side and you'll
see me on their knees to your plants, asking that corresponds to the
immense love that you inspire.

There is no longer in me as exotic and pilgrim prohibit you love me.

I own the ancient namely the Brahmins and Kshatriyas, whose combined breeds descend, but I
have studied and I also managed to acquire enough knowledge of modern Europe. And do not look to prevention
unfair, but with paternal affection, as our first shoot lush, high and fertile doctrines. You might
have noticed I do not write your language badly until I copied and almost translated into Sanskrit
verses of Goethe. I am not ignorant nor French literature, English and other peoples. And
when it comes to religion, I will say with all secrecy, because I do not even shock and disturb
my relatives and friends, Brahmins and Kshatriyas, which I have denied, three years ago, the
Brahmanical religion, and I've done in secret, as a Catholic Christian, as you are. This conversion
is due to some Jesuit Father of the Spanish nation, who came to this city, from the Philippines
and stopped us for some time. It was so enlightened man, so pious and so eloquent and mellifluous,
who managed to convince me. God bless him and bless him. Callo your name, for surely you do not mind
and I do not want to hurt his extreme modesty. Only say that my frequent dealings with this blessed
Father, born in my great love to the Spanish language and I purchased and read the best prose writers
and poets, which she have written or typed.

We also Callus my Indian name, because I will not spoil it and because
it is so convoluted, well to learn only spoken through the living
voice.

Be satisfied for now, know that the venerable Jesuit my catechist, he put the baptized, the name
Seville Isidore. Do not be fickle: love me and I forget: do not fall for any of these dandies
Hof-Adel the palate or nobility of Vienna: Be convinced that my nobility is at least as clearly
and without doubt far more tolerance than theirs. The chance of them consist in ancient scrolls,
but mine has authentic documents, written twenty centuries before the parchment was invented,
and many more centuries before it was used in Austria and counts among writing materials.

Love
me, again, and have faith and hope in my love. No need to find, but wait. Soon I see your feet,
worshiping exhausted and begging with all my heart that you are the Padmini your

Isidore. "

IX

Poldy was thrilled to infer and consider, for reading the letter that his Indian was famous
and rich and I was madly in love with her. Points were, however, in the letter, which called
up in the spirit of Poldy, repairs, contradictions and even complaints. Tired gallant nor boastful
and nothing seemed fine commendation made by the Indian nobility, with extreme prejudice and even
contempt for the Austrian nobility, but apologized and even Poldy absolved the Indian, guessing
that in this particular had to be somewhat soured as his character, that he being a descendant
of Crishna of Rama, the Pandu, or perhaps some Avatar, the incarnation of Vishnu, of whom
Mahavarata held, was subjected to the foreign domination of English rogues.

Poldy and apologized to his friend, but was far from him right. She thought that noble documents
are worth only if it has power, wealth and high position who displays them, and all this, but the
wealth was undermined and ruined the Indian at last was a humble subject of His Britannic Majesty
and any Englishman or any employee of the Treasury cavalry colonel could look at him from top
to bottom.

Poldy ran well, that he who overcomes and dominates the rightful heir is always the loser and
mastered. And this in all periods and regions. In the Middle Ages, for example, at an crossroads,
and in open palenque, ran into a knight with another, and to test the respective bravery or to
confess to the contrary, that his lady was the most beautiful, or twinkling of an eye, both
lunged furiously and were knocked released. Following fell down from the chair one of the two
gentlemen, and at the moment, all the glory of prowess, all the renown that his adventures
and exploits had earned him, were transferred the gentleman winner
as attachment or appendix