 Everything will be in the dark over
deep, will imagine that darkness reproduced lying on the face of the deep before breeder say that
the word "Let there be light."

But it should be noted that leaving the world in such horrible darkness, we have not altered any
of its other laws exist as before, the giant moles touring with amazing speed admirable precision
and immense orbits. From this it follows that being disregarded smell, taste, sound, color,
light, the world still exists, without being no cost work conceived in this way. Even more, even
the sensation of touch can without, it will be easy to assume that we do not perceive any posters
in this sense, the Color or cold, tenderness or hardness, the causes remain in the body, we can
replace each other and even make them disappear, but why let us believe that the universe to
exist.

[50.] After taking all these abstractions, try anything and see what happens. Do away with the extension.
In this test, the universe does not stand: the masses of the stars disappear, the earth under
our feet crushes, the gap ceases to exist, the motion is an absurdity, our own body disappears,
the entire universe is plunged into nothing, or whether it is still
something, is something entirely different from what we imagine now.

Undoubtedly, if we dispense with the extension, if this feeling, or idea, or whatever it is,
that on it we have not performed on the outside, if not regarded as a representation of what exists
outside us, everything goes haywire, do not know what to think or our feelings or their relationships
with objects that cause them: everything revolves around, we lack a basis of our knowledge, we
tend in vain arms to cling of some fixed point, and asked in grief,
if all you feel is not more than a pure illusion, if you are a true
Berkeley extravaganzas.

[51.] Even with respect to the extension is worthy of remark, that while moving it objectify
to the outside, it is absolutely true that is represented by the sensation. Best I would say that
is a receptacle of certain feelings, not an object of them, a condition necessary for the functions of
some senses, not felt a thing. The abstracted extension the sensations of sight and touch,
is reduced to what we said above, the multiplicity and continuity and knowing this, comes from
the senses, but is different from what we represent the senses. As to the impressions I received
from them sight remove the color and light is certainly my idea of ??an extended thing, not
a thing visible, or an object represented by the sensation. Of its own destiny if you spoil
the impressions I have been through touch, qualities that affect this sense, not destroys the
object that caused it, but not represented by the impressions that
he'd transmitted.

[52.] These observations demonstrate that the outside to move our feelings, these are a means
by which we report, our soul, but no pictures in which she contemplates objects. All of them
tell an external cause, but some, like the view and touch, will manifest
in a particular way the multiplicity and continuity, I mean the extension.

From

this it also follows that the outside world is a pure illusion, that there is actually with huge
masses, its various movements, infinite geometry, but that much its beauty and charm are on
us rather than on it. And infinitely powerful hand knew that he has raised, has held its wisdom and power
in a particular way in sentient beings, and above all intelligent. What would the universe if
there was none felt and understood? In this intimate relationship, in the ongoing communication
of objects with sentient beings, are the beauty, harmony, the mysteries of nature. The most
beautiful picture, had it not who you look and perceive its beauty, it would be a set of lineaments,
a hieroglyphic of undecipherable characters, but from the moment which is at the view of one
who feels and knows, the picture comes to life, is what should be, and in this mysterious communication,
the object gains in beauty all that communicates spell.

Suppose that a set of instruments provided with the appropriate mechanism to execute admirable
precision the best conceptions of Mozart or Bellini, "it all comes down to needed to be sensitive?
to air vibrations combined with a certain law, to pure movement of a fluid subjected to a geometric
precision. Introduce a man, then the geometry heavenly harmony becomes, then there is music, there
are charms.

The symmetry of the tables in a garden, the freshness of your shrubs, color and glaze of flowers, fragrant
aromas, what is not a sentient being? geometric shapes, surfaces arranged according to certain
laws, volumes of this or that class, fluid columns emerging from them, and are scattered throughout
the space, but introduces man, then geometric figures are clothed in a thousand thanks, the
flowers are covered with Galanos colors, fluid column become exquisite
aromas.

CHAPTER X.

OBJECTIVE VALUE OF TOUCH FOR THE SENSATIONS.

[53]. It has been said that touch is the surest witness and perhaps the only, the existence bodies,
for without it all the feelings would pass no simple modifications ourselves, and we could
not attribute any external object. I do not think this is true. By touch we get an impression
as well as by the other senses, in all cases this impression is a
condition of our being, not an external thing, and when the continuation
of these impressions, by his order and independence of our will, we
judge that come from objects outside of us, this view is true not
only with respect to impressions of touch, but also the other senses.

[54.] One of the reasons we have tried to establish the superiority of touch to testify the existence
of bodies, is that he gives us the idea or the sensation of extension, because if we assume
that a man is deprived of all senses except touch and goes with hand the surface of your body,
you experience the continuity of feeling, in which the extension is wrapped. This observation of the
supporters of the supremacy of touch not convinced of what they propose. Because to go with
it several objects, or different parts of self, we experience the feeling of continuity as
clearly as the touch.

You can not conceive why the feeling of the extension has to be more clear when runs his hand
along a railing, which when viewed with the eyes.

[55.] Holders of this opinion claim that by the touch of our bodies acquire a double sensation,
which does not take place with the other senses, passing his hand
across his forehead, Sorry to the forehead and hand, verifying the
continuity of feelings, that all have their origin and end in ourselves.

Thus we have the awareness that we belong both the sensation of the hand like the front.

But this reason that some have thought conclusive, is nevertheless extremely trivial: suffers fallacy
of the begging call dialectical, it is the same as it is testing. In effect, the man removed
from all respects except that of touch, experience the two sensations and continuity, but it does
what it can infer? Do you know by chance that be hand or forehead? not supposed to, the difficulty
lies in explaining how they acquired the knowledge. Both belong sensations, this is an inner
consciousness, but ignores where they derive.

The coincidence of the two sensations do you test something for fortune the existence of the
forehead and hand, we assume that objects have no idea?

If this match to prove what you want, with more reason that the combination would prove some
way with others, leads us to knowledge of the existence of bodies, and therefore that knowledge
is generated not only by touch. I always experiment I have the feeling of a movement that is
to put your hand in front of the eyes, I lose In view of the objects, and another that comes
to me is always the same: the hand, if this coincidence infer the existence of external objects,
it is destroyed the supremacy of touch, then, that for the formation of such a view affects the
view. Also observed that to have the feeling that it is to lend a hand with another, experience
the sensation of hearing slap noise: if the match then it will influence the ear and touch.
What say the slap, you can apply to what I experience walking hand
part the body, such as the length of the arm, so that the friction
produces noise.

In this case, there are two sensations, coincident and continuous.

May be replied that these examples refer to different senses, and produce feelings of different
species, but this does not change anything, because if the sentient
infers the existence of objects in the overlap of the various sensations,
supremacy is destroyed touch that is what we intended to prove.

[56.] The sensation of the hand is not the same as that of the front, because that will be more
or less cold, more or less hot, more or less fine, more or less soft, and so will not same
feeling that caused in his forehead, that produced in the front by hand. Is worthy of note
that the lower suppose the difference between the two sensations, less living is the perception
of duality, and therefore less remarkable coincidence that cover the trial. So well analyzed by the
subject to come to stop that train view of the existence of objects contributes especially the diversity
of sensations; and therefore be more conducive to this end, the combination of two ways that
the two sensations of one.

Thus, far from the touch has to be regarded as unique or superior in this point, one has to be
taken as an auxiliary to the other.

[57.] And in fact, little doubt that the touch also need the help of others senses, and that trials
of the same result resembles those arising from them. Is likely that only after repeated experiments
refer the sensation of touch in order the cause, and even to the affected part. The man has amputee
hand experience pain as if retained, and this why? because the repetition of acts has made
the habit of referring the impression brain to the point where the nerves end the broadcast. Then
there is no necessary relation between touch and the object: and this sense may suffer illusions
as the other.

Therefore it is precisely what has been said that the idea of ??the
body grows under our hand, if this is understood as exclusive to the
touch, since the same is verified of the other senses, particularly
sight.

CHAPTER XI.

LOWER COMPARED TO OTHER SENSES TOUCH.

[58.] This superiority, or better, this exclusive privilege and other philosophers Condillac
granted to the touch, more of having no foundation as we have seen, appears to be in contradiction
with the very nature of this connection.

Is given supremacy fully to more material, so to speak, the rudest of them all.

No one can know the ideas of things a man would form reduced to only touch: but I think that far
to get in clear and vivid communication with the outside world, and they had sufficient knowledge
bases to support his claim, it should vegetate in the most profound ignorance, and suffer the most
far-reaching mistakes.

[59.] Comparing with the light touch, and even with the hearing and smell, of course is offered
a major difference in favor of this and against that. Touch conveys no but the impression of
objects that are immediate to our body when the other three, and
especially the view, put us in communication with distant objects.

Stars are still separated from us by such a distance that barely fits in our imagination, and yet
we see, certainly less than that or the smell or the ear, but the first continues to warn
of the existence of a garden that is many steps away from us, and the second gives us news
of a battle that has stuck to many miles of our home, electric spark that has torn the cloud in
the confines of the horizon, or the storm that rages in the immensity of the sea.

[60.] This limitation of touch with what is in the vicinity, would result in the narrowing of the
ideas originating in his own, and are by necessity at a very lower than the other three, and
in particular of the view. To form clear ideas this point, compare the sight and touch in relation
to an object: a building. Through the view we take in a few moments idea of ??the facade, and
its other parts field: and in short time we heard of his interior disposition, and even their
furniture and ornaments. How can this be done by touch? It is impossible. Even supposing very
delicate and very tenacious memory of the impressions that he wandered about communicating, it
would take long hours to go with the hand the frontispiece, and to form some idea of ??it. What would
not be with respect to everything outside the building? What if we talk about inside? Jump
to the eyes it would be necessary to renounce the task, and that
such a beautiful work of a ledge of a pedestal, a colonnade, such
magnificence of a tower, a dome, such boldness an arch, a vault, an
arrow, the eye seen in a moment, it would cost to poor only possessed
the touch, much to walk on all fours and climb to dangerous scaffolding,
and exposed horrendous to slide down cliffs, and still unable to achieve
or one millionth of which so easily and quickly got the eyes.

Let them stretch these considerations into a city, to vast countries, the universe and see what superiority
so vast is the view of the touch.

[61.] This superiority does not appear so evident when you compare the touch and other senses;
but not without also exist, and a very high degree.

Since then a difference occurs, which is the distance. It is true that mediate these, touch
can also feel in some way: such as the presence or absence of sun
through heat and cold, and just as the presence or absence, and most
or less proximity of some bodies, but these impressions, but they
are far from have the same range and speed of the ear, would give
us no idea of ??distance, if we had no more sense than touch.

Heat and cold, dryness and humidity, this is reduced to the impressions
that some distant bodies may exert on the touch, and clear is that
the impressions are of a nature that could give rise to many serious
mistakes.

[62.] If we assume that a man who owns one touch, you have come to know the presence and the
absence of the sun on the horizon, their only standard room temperature, and depending on this a
thousand reasons that have nothing to do with the star of the day, happen to change very often
that natural or artificial it will induce you into error. Moisture you will experience near a lake
where you have to bathe, will make her aware of the immediacy of
the water but do not feel a thousand times an impression of moisture
causes that will work on air, completely independent of the waters
of a lake?

It is true that the concentration of all forces in a single sensory effect, no distraction, continuous
attention on the same kind of feelings, may take the delicacy touch of perfection to a point
that we probably can not conceive, as well as the habit of linking ideas with respect to a single
order of sensations, and to form judgments in relation to them alone, would produce a precision,
accuracy and range as far superior to We can imagine, but more on this point wish to extend the
conjecture is provided is clear that there is a limit here, which is the nature of the court and
its relationship with bodies. This body would be always limited to adjacent objects, to receive impressions
well-defined, and with respect to the distant, which could act on it, execute give the impression
that the nature of both consent, cold or heat, dryness or humidity, and even if you will,
a certain pressure to a greater or lesser degree, and as to many others, is impossible to imagine
that they had no action. For over a widening circle of this kind of feelings must always be
very small. It is also necessary to note that this perfectibility of touch as a result of his
isolation, his property is not exclusive but also extends to other senses, as being founded on the laws
of the organization, and in the generation of our ideas.

[63.] To understand the superiority in this part has the ear to the touch, enough to consider
1. ยบ The ratio of distances, 2. ยบ a variety of objects, 3. ยบ the
rapid succession impressions, 4. ยบ simultaneity, so vast in the ear,
and so limited in touch; 5.

No word relationships.

Ratio of distances. It is clear that at this point leads to touch the ear, that usually needs
the immediacy, this is not, and even his need for good appreciation the object, distance to
class well-off sound. How many and how many objects distant, do not tell us the ear, with respect
to which nothing can touch you tell us? The gallop of the horse that threatens hit, the noise
of the stream that can take us, the thunder rumbles and announces the storm, the roar of the
cannon that gives us news that a battle has begun, the sound of racing, the shouting, drums
and bells, which indicate the eruption of popular anger, loud music us reports the joy caused
by a betrothal, the concert dedicated to the pleasures of salon, the song that enchants us
with wistful memories, feelings of hope and of love, oh! warns us of suffering, crying that afflicts
us with the idea of ??misfortune; all this tells us the ear, above
all tell us that nothing can touch.

Variety of objects. Distant objects gives us news that the feel is of necessity very little variety,
and therefore the ideas that only it turns out, would be subject
to deplorable confusion, and to great uncertainty.

The hearing on the contrary, reports of infinite very different objects, and executes it with precision
and accuracy.

Rapid succession of impressions. It is clear that this part has to
touch the ear incalculable superiority. This when seen by juxtaposition,
you need to go on objects and even different parts of oneself, whether
to receive various impressions: This requires a long time for small
numbers they are