 I'm not one to leave the danger: on the contrary, we seek from 21,
and I find the occasion of my presence in the squad is helpful. If you come before me, as
I hope, tell the good sailor Paca is a slave to his homeland, and that I have done very well
to come here, and I'm very glad I came, and not I am sorry, no sir, I do not regret ... On the
contrary ... Tell her to be happy when I see it, and that for sure my teammates would have
missed had it not been ... How was missing? Do not you think you did well in coming?

- As is clear: what does that question not like - I said trying to calm his agitation, which
was so great that he could see the inconvenience of talking to a miserable question page so
serious.

- I see you're a reasonable person - said to feel comforted with my approval -; I see that you
look high and patriotic ... But Paca does not see things rather than the side of selfishness,
and as is a genius so rare, and as he has made up his mind that brackets and the guns are useless,
I can not understand ... Anyway ... I know will be furious when he returns, then ... as we did not
win, he will say this and that ... me again crazy ... but ish ... If I did not do. How about you?
Is not it true that I should not make case?

- I think - I said -.

Your Honor has done well to come: it proves that he is a brave sailor.

- Then go to these reasons Paca, and see what you answered - said he increasingly agitated -.
In short, tell him I am well and healthy, and that my presence here has been very necessary.
The truth is that in the rescue of Santa Ana have taken a great part. If I had not targeted those
guns as well, who knows, who knows ... What do you think? You can still do something more,
it can still be that if the wind is favorable to us, we rescued a couple of ships tomorrow ... Yes,
sir ... Here I am pondering a plan ... We will see, see ... With
that farewell, Gabrielillo.

Be careful what you say to Paca.

- No, I will not forget. Already know that if not for your honor not dam the Santa Ana, and
also know I might perhaps bring us Cádiz two dozen ships.

- Two dozen, no, man - he said -, that's plenty. Two ships, or maybe three. Anyway, I think I've
done well to come to the square. She will be furious and I go crazy when return, but ... I
think, I repeat, I've done very well get on board. "

Having said that away from me. A moment later I saw him sitting in a corner of the camera. Was
praying, and moved the beads with great dissimulation, because I
did not see it engaged in such pious exercise.

I I assumed by his last words my master had lost the brain, and saw
him praying I took up the weakness of his spirit, which had been in
vain efforts to overcome the old tired and unable to sustain the fight,
went to God for mercy.

Dona Francisca was right.

My love, for many years, serving more than to pray.

As agreed we shuttle. D. Rafael and Martial, as the other officers wounded, were lowered into
the arms of one of the boats, with hard work, by strong ratings.

The very strong waves hindered the operation, but he finally did,
and the two vessels went to Ray.

The voyage of a vessel to another was terrible, but in the end, although there moments when
it seemed to me that the boat was going to disappear forever, we the side of Ray, and with great
difficulty climbed the ladder.

-XV-

"We left Guatemala to enter Guatepeor - Marcial said that they put on Cover -. But where the
captain gives the orders sent sailor. In that sentenced him to put
Rayo bad name.

He said to enter into Cadiz before midnight, and I say that does not fit. We'll see to see.

- What do you say, Marcial, who did not get there - I asked with great eagerness.

- You, Mr. Gabrielito, does not understand this.

- Is that when my
lord D. Alonso and Santa Ana officials believe the Lightning enter
tonight, there is bound to come.

They say it, it will be well known.

- And you know, sardiniya, those stern masters of lamps (wrong) more
easily we seafarers waist.

If not, here is the head of the entire squad, Mr. Horn, load the devil with him. You see, as
has not had so much mind to command the action. Do you think that if Mr. Horn would have done
what I said had lost the battle?

- And you think you will not get to Cadiz?

- I say that this ship is heavier than the same lead, and also treacherous. He has a bad path,
misgoverns and seems to be lame, one-armed one-eyed like me, because if you cast the rod for here,
he goes there. "

In effect, the Lightning, according to general opinion, was a lousy boat seaworthy. But despite
this and his advanced age, bordering on the fifty-six years as was in good condition, did not
seem to run any danger, because if the storm was becoming more, also the port was near. Anyway,
was it not logical to assume greater risk was in Santa Ana, treeless,
rudderless, and forced to march in the wake of a frigate?

Marcial was placed in the cockpit, and Malespina in the chamber. When we left there with other
officers wounded, I heard a voice I recognized, but the point I could not realize of the person
to whom it belonged. I approached the group where this talk came rumbling, dominating the other
voices, and was startled, while recognizing D. José María Malespina
in person.

I ran to him to say he was his son, and the good father of lies suspended I was telling to go
next to the wounded boy. Great was his joy to meet alive, he had left Cadiz because devouring
impatience and wanted to know his whereabouts at all costs.

"What you have is nothing - said hugging her son -: a simple scratch. You're not used to feel
wounded, you are a lady, Rafael. Oh, if when the war would have been Roussillon age to go there
with me, would have been good. Yes those were injured. You know I got a bullet through the
forearm, up to the shoulder, turned around the back, and came out at the waist. Oh, what hurt so
unique!, But after three days he was healthy, commanding the artillery in the attack Bellegarde.
"

She then explained the reason for their presence on the Lightning, as follows:

"The 21 at night we found in Cádiz the success of combat. I said, gentlemen, did not want to
ignore me when I spoke of the reforms of the artillery, and here
are the results.

Well well: as I knew and I knew that I had come in with a few withdrawal Gravina ships, went
to see if among them was the San Juan, where were you, but I was told there was been captured.
I can not paint to you my anxiety: I had no doubt about your death, I learned mostly from the
large number of casualties that occurred on your ship.

But I am a man I carry things to the end, and knowing that it had arranged the departure of some
vessels in order to collect dismantled and rescue the prisoners, I decided to leave soon doubt,
embarking on one of them.

I stated my intention to Solano, and then Major General of the squadron, my old friend Seaton,
and do not let me come without scruple. Aboard Lightning where I embarked this morning, I asked for
you, for the San Juan, but I said nothing comforting, but on the
contrary, that Churruca had died, and his ship after fight with glory
had fallen into the hands of the enemy.

Imagine what my anxiety! How far was today When we rescued the Santa Ana, that you you were
in it! To know for sure, would redoubled my efforts in the provisions that permit di with these
gentlemen, and the ship Alava would have been free in two minutes. "

The officers around him sarcastically mirábanle hearing last boastful concept D. José María. By
their laughter and whispering understood that throughout the day
had fun with the lies of that good man, who does not bridle his tongue
fickle, even in the most critical and painful circumstances.

The surgeon stated that it was let stand to hurt, and no conversation held in his presence some,
especially if it related to past disasters. D. Jose Maria, who just heard, said that, on the contrary,
it was appropriate to revive the spirit of the patient with the conversation.

"In the war of Roussillon, the seriously wounded (and I was several times) we sent to soldiers
to dance and touched the guitar in the infirmary, and I am sure that this treatment soon cured
us all of the pads and kits.

- For in the wars of the French Republic - said an official who wanted
to confuse Andalusian D. José María - established in the ambulance
of the wounded was a ballet complete and an opera company, and this
saved the doctors and apothecaries, as in a couple of arias and two
dozen were left stranded in sixth all new.

- Stop right there! -
Said Malespina -.

That's grid, gentleman. How can it be that music and dance to heal the wounds?

- You said it .-- Yes, but that has not happened more than once, or easily happen again. Is it
likely to again be a war like the Roussillon, the bloodiest, the
more skillful, the most strategic that has seen the world from Epaminondas?

They never, as there all was remarkable, and I can vouch for that, that I witnessed from the Introit
to the Mass est Ite. A war that I owe my knowledge of the artillery, have you not heard about
me? I'm sure you know me by name. Well, you know I have here in head a great project, and such
that if one day become reality, they will not disasters like this
occur 21.

Yes, gentlemen - she added, looking earnestly and sufficiency after
three or four officers who heard him -: we need to do something for
the motherland is urgent to invent Somewhat surprisingly, that in
no time we return all the lost and to ensure our marine the victory
for ever and ever Amen.

- So, Mr. D. José María - said an officer
-; you tell us what your invention .-- For I am concerned now as to
build cannons 300.

- Man, to 300! - Shouted the officers to fuss
with laughter and derision -.

Higher we have on board are 36.

- These are toys for kids. Just imagine the havoc that would make these pieces of 300 shooting
on the enemy's fleet - said Malespina -. But what the hell is this? - Added holding Non-roll
on the floor, as the swaying of the Ray were such that he could hardly
take a right.

- The storm rages and I think tonight we at Cadiz,
"said a retired officer.

Were only two, and the liar continued his rant in these terms:

"The
first thing to do was build boats from 95 to 100 yards long.

- Snails!

Do you know that the dinghy would be regular? - Said an officer -.

One hundred yards! The Trinity, which has holy glory, was seventy, and all seemed too long.
You know tacked you wrong, and that all operations were done on it
very hard.

- I see you are scared by little, little gentleman - continued
Malespina -.

What is 100 yards? Even much larger ships could be built. And I must warn you that I built iron.

-
Iron! - Cried the two listeners could not help laughing.

- Iron, yes. Perchance you do not know the science of hydrostatics? Under her, I would build an
iron ship of 7,000 tons.

- Trinidad And had no more than 4,000! - Said an officer - which seemed excessive. But do not
you understand that to move that mass would require a colossal rig, which would have human forces
able to handle it?

- Bicocca! ... Oh, sir sailor, and who tells you that I would be so awkward to move the ship
by wind? You do not know me. If you know that I have here an idea ... But I will not explain it
to you, because I do not understand. "

At this point in his talk, D. José María gave such a jolt that was on all fours. But neither of
these closed its beak. So he went another officer, and was only one, which had to continue holding
the conversation.

"What swings! - Continued the old -.

It seems as if we're going to crash into the coast ... Well, as I
said, I would move that great mass of my invention by means of ...
You'll never guess what you ... By water vapor.

To build a machine that is singular, where steam, compressed and expanded alternately in two
cylinders, put wheels in motion ... as ...».

The officer did not want to hear more, and although I had put into the vessel nor was service,
be those listed, was to help their peers rather busy with the growing storm. Malespina was left
alone with me, and then thought I would not judge me quiet person
order to sustain the conversation.

But my misfortune would have wanted him more than me what I was worth, and started me on the
following terms:

"Do you misunderstand what I mean? Seven thousand tons, steam, two wheels ... then.

- Yes, sir, I fully understand - I replied to see if it was silent, as neither had mood hear,
nor the violent balances of the ship, announcing a great danger, possessed the spirit to speak
about the enlargement of the marina.

- I see you know me and takes care of my inventions - he continued -.

You understand I imagine that the ship would be invincible, as they defend by attacking. He
would only defeated with four or five shots thirty English ships.

- But their guns would not hurt him too? - Expressing shyness, arguing courtesy rather than
because the subject interested me.

- Oh! The observation of you, gentleman, is atinadísima, and try to understand and appreciate
the great inventions. To avoid the effect of enemy artillery, I forraría my boat with thick
steel plates, that is, you put a shell, such as those used by past warriors. By this means, it could
attack without the enemy projectiles do in their more side effects than would a barrage of
pellets of bread, thrown by hand a child. It's a wonderful idea that I've had. Just imagine
that our nation had two or three ships to those. Where would go the England squad with all Nelson
and Collingwood?

- But in case of those ships could do here - I said eagerly, knowing the strength of my argument
- the British would make them too, and then the proportions of the struggle would be the same. "

D.
Jose Maria was as bewildered with this, and was puzzled for a moment, without know what to say,
but his inexhaustible vein soon suggest new ideas, and answered bad mood:

"Who has told you, daring lad, I would be able to divulge my secret? The ships would be manufactured with
the utmost secrecy and without saying Palotada anyone. Suppose going on a new war. We provoked
the British, they say, 'Yes, sir, now we are; will beat us.

" Ships out to sea ordinary, began the fight, and maybe catatonic displayed on the waters of fighting
two or three of these iron monsters, spewing smoke and marching here
and there, ignoring the wind, they get where they want to make chips
with the push of his sharp nose against ships, and a couple of guns
... just imagine you, everything is just a quarter-hour.

"

He declined further comment, because the idea of ??a great danger that ran me from occupying the
mind with thoughts contrary to their own of such critical situation. I did not remember most formidable
vessel of imagination, until thirty years later I learned the application of steam navigation,
and even more, when after half a century saw our glorious frigate Numancia the finished performance
of projects quirky Trafalgar liar.

Half a century later I remembered
D. José María Malespina, and said: "It seems incredible that the vagaries
designed by a madman or a liar become wonderful realities in the course
of time. "

Since I noticed this coincidence, not condemn absolutely
no utopia, and all liars I think men of genius.

I left D. José María
to see what was happening, and as I set foot outside the chamber,
I learned of the compromised position he was in the Lightning. The
storm, not only prevented entry into Cadiz, but he was moved to the
coast, where encallaría insurance crashing against the rocks. However
bad luck out of Santa Ana, who had abandoned could not be worse than
ours. I eagerly watched the faces of officers and men, to see if there
was any hope to indicate, but, to my misfortune, I saw signs in all
of great discouragement