 

Previenese Michael Palaeologus to come on Gallipoli, ours to fight the three days distance, and between
places of APROS and Cipsela given battle, leaving it up Miguel, and wounded.

The good fortune of our arms put in care of the Emperor Andronicus, and to his son Miguel, because
they did not believe that people so poor they could give, and forced to put all forces of
the Empire to ruin. With the success of Gallipoli, met the Emperor of gather the people, and
give over ours before they could of Catalonia, or reach Sicily relief. Of these preparations and
equipment of war were advised by our spy Greek Montaner sent with much apprehension that come back,
because others of the same nation, that were sent to various parties, did not return. Catalans
could not serve on the occupation, because they were always known, even in a suit, and Greek language
are sought to conceal. This notice is resolved to seek out all the enemy inland resolution
as graceful as any of the others took. I do not think so many subtleties and bravery you may
have read in other stories, and so sometimes I fear that my faith has credit to question, but warned
that this will herald may Nicephore Gregoras and authors Pachymeres Greeks, and to be enemies,
and Montaner Catalan agree it seems more incredible shall be true what they write. Montaner reports
that the main cause that moved them to follow this advice was seen as wealthy and prosperous,
and fear that its about hobbies wealth, and fear of losing them, not make them lose some of
its reputation. Following boards more cautious, less honorable, left at Gallipoli where they
lay their garrison property, wives and family one hundred Almugavares, and left around Adrianople,
marina weapons of this army that gathered against them, with firm determination to fight Michael,
even if assisted by the greater power of his empire. Thracia walked for three days, destroying
and cutting down the campaign came to a night to their barracks at the foot of a Mount bit
rough. The sentries who put on high the other party discovered large fires; enviaronse recognizers,
and soon returned with two Greek prisoners, who knew the occasion of the fires, which was to
be Miguel quartered with six thousand horse, and greater number of infants, between Agros and Cipsela,
two small villages waiting for the rest the field. They wanted some that night was crossing
the mountain that divided them, and should give the enemy on guard and I do not think they adopted
this advice, I do not know that reason, since it had been forced to fight them, the easier it
out with the dark and confusion of the night adventures that await the morning when few could
be so be better recognized. After all confessed, and received the Sacrament of Eucharastia, fired
a single squad of infantry, and cavalry troops divided equally into two each side of his squad and
another squad left in the rear guard for help where the need to call him. They walked around
the enemy at sunrise were found on the other side of the montañuela, where they discovered the enemy more
powerful than the spy said, and it was because it came two hours before most of his army who missing.
He acknowledged the enemy's coming, and as between infantry and cavalry is not quite three
thousand of us, tried to leave to lay down their arms and surrender to the mercy of Miguel; and
this had for so true that neither wanted to take up arms or leave their barracks. But Miguel
with his injury both knew from experience the value of their enemies, took its people, and
he was armed, and put his horse, commanding squadrons in this way. The infantry divided into
five squads under the charge of Miguel's uncle Theodore, General of all the militia, who had come
from the East in the Horn incident put the cavalry of the Alans and Turkish Greeks under the
charge of Basilan in the right horn was the pick of Thracia cavalry and Macedonia, with Valasco
and adventurers to the great Etriarca order, in the rear guard Miguel was with his guards, and part
of the nobility who attended his defense. Acompañábale the Despot his brother, Angelo Senacarib
that this day would not have people of his war charge, for being engaged in the defense of the
Emperor, and take care of security him. Miguel acknowledged their squads, and encouraged to war,
came closing. The our divided into four squads with great courage and resolution with which
the first encountered were the Alans Turkish Greeks, that his cavalry squadron envistió first Almugavares,
that invincible broke his fury, therefore, that says Pachymeres, then withdrew the run. Although
Nicephore says that the Massagatae and Turkish Greeks when they blew the trumpets to envestida,
fled because they had resolved not to serve the Emperor, and had dealings with Turcopoles Catalans.
Either way it was, or after envestida, or earlier, fled and infantry discovered by the sinister
side of all the horses that sustained, was said Nicephore, as the ship sails without a tree and not in
the greatest fury of the storm. Part of our cavalry, who had gathered to Almugavares and sailors,
there were dismantled and rushed to stand on that side. The opportunity that they had had to remove
these troops, was just to be useless in this kind of service, and if not leave the horses could
fight. The other infantry squads, free from most of the cavalry enemy that could damage them, closed
the front so strongly that slaughtered the first rows where his most lucid and courageous
soldiers, all the rest of the infantry put to flight even if the cavalry Thracia and Macedonia,
as the best and most reputable of those provinces, he maintained his position for much time fighting
with the cavalry, and defended one of his squad that was not broken until they opened for Almugavares
the other side, and forehead, and then his horse with great loss left the job, Cipsela fleeing
around. Miguel, as a good prince and brave soldier watching his squad broken, and cavalry, partly
withdrawn and partly broken, and who was wearing the best hope win, pulled his horse around the
enemy, and then suddenly the horse was not brake, and turn to throw the enemy, who were detained
in their custody was of getting on another horse, and not have the bad luck to have lost its brake
horse plunged into the most dangerous, and with great alacrity and encouraged about was helping
others, when threats, when with prayers, called his Captains and Masters of Country by name
they turned their faces, who resist, did not lose that day so diminishes the reputation the
Roman Empire. The soldiers and captains, once lost his fear of fame, and since in execution case so
bad as to forsake the person of Prince, also the loss to his requests and complaints, because the
higher the infamy of fact, the more difficult is repentance. Then Michael did with the example,
since it could not with words, force, and judging how great shame not to venture his life
for his people returned to the few who followed them, said, time has arrived, colleagues and
friends, that death is better than life, and life more cruel than death itself. He died with
a reputation, whether or not to live in infamy. He raised his face to heaven, asking his help,
he threw himself on his horse in the middle of ours. Followed him to a hundred of the most faithful,
and put a big space victory in doubt, both can in such cases the person who ventures Prince.
Injured to many and killed two. A sailor named Berenguer catalan that at the time of the day
was found on a good horse, and weapons lucid spoils of victory last went among the enemy so bizarre, that
Michael and I had the training causes some signal Captain of our nation, and a desire to show
his effort, he went to him and gave him a gash in the left arm. Miguel decided on the sailor so
quickly that without giving time to take his horse, hammer blows to jump him the shield, and
wounded him in the face and killed him while the horse to Miguel, and I had almost given up
but some of his guard succored him bravely, and one of them gave his horse that was saved.
Deliver them being killed by her prince, Miguel lost most of its people, and free from danger for
their courage and their joy, he left the battle, taken more by force of their own, who by his
will. He tried many times to return to collect the reputation loss, but was always stopped,
and his courage in cracking and tears. Retreated into the Castle of APROS, with that victory
was declared for us. Scope was not followed because they understood provided that the Greeks
were left with full force to return a second time to fight and feared an ambush, according
Pachymeres says, adding that it was providence particular God fear that the Catalans had the
ambush, to stop them not to implement victory, where many more perished, and Michael came into
his hands. Contentáronse to be masters of the field, and await the morning desengañaría them
of their suspicions. All that night he was with weapons in hand. Morning came, and acknowledged
that his victory had been in full compliance. APROS rushed to the same day that only defended
their neighbors, came easily. In this place they stopped eight days, that would heal the wounded
and other break from work and fatigue of battle. SUPOS then as people Michael waited, and as the spies
reported it had gathered and before the battle, and that everything was up. Perished, as the enemy
Montaner ten thousand horses and fifteen thousand foot, of our twenty-seven and nine horses. Michael
retired in APROS, not taken for granted, and that night went out, and went to Pambhilo and
thence to Didimoto where his father, from whom, has Nicephore which was severely reproved, because
he put him as boldly as risk, than a soldier, or Captain was due praise, in an Emperor was
worthy of reprimand, words born of a hobby father, rather than what should advise if it is not,
because I know I have the Prince venturing further obligation, than Miguel ventured, when you
waste their armies, His reputation at risk, people died and been lost. What of the celebrated Prince
in memory of the people stopped putting their lives at greater risk, when the importance and the greatness
of the matter is of such quality?.

With this victory, most of the province of Thrace was a spoil of us. Cities populous and strong
in this community suffered no storm, because as the Catalans so few, not wanted to take in assaulting
walls, which necessarily had to lose people and if any were taken, it was because the neglect of
the enemy were invited to what could be done, without venturing far. The inhabitants of the Greek
villages and towns throughout the province, known the loss of his army, left their homes and their
farms, and wheat was and to collect, and wandering in neighboring kingdoms, increased the
fear of our revenge; and says Pachymeres entering infinite part of all people fleeing, and
that seemed to Constantinople Empedocles pending. Used this victory was to happen in a case Adrianople
hurt the Catalans who were prisoners from the death of Roger, who came to the number sixty. Took notice
of the victory of APROS, animarónse to try their freedom. Were safe in a prison tower, broke the
shackles, and undertook a door could not open, rose to the top of the tower to recognize any
way of his freedom, it was not possible find him, and as desperate
to find mercy in the Greeks, from above, with arms they could achieve,
fought bravely with the people of that besieged Adrianople the tower,
and tried to win by force of arms, but it was both the courage of
those who defended it, was not possible to harm them.

Finally after wounded, desperate citizens of poderles pay, resolved to burn the entire building
and tower. They gave fire all parties, and in little time went on with great ruin of the building.
Through the flames and fire throwing stones and darts, and abrasive media fought. They took leave,
and embraced each others, made the sign of the Cross, so says Pachymeres were thrown into the fire
everyone, and including two brothers of an illustrious lineage, and courageous spirit, embracing
with great pity of the bystanders were thrown from the tower, and escaped the fire, with more
pity them spared the iron of the perfidious Greeks, who were torn apart. Among these sixty there
was only one that it displayed to surrender, to whom threw the other tower. After have destroyed
and cleared most of the province, returned to Gallipoli, augmented of reputation, finance,
and people who were gathered in Italian, French and Spanish, who escaped from the cruelty and
fury of the Greeks.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

State of affairs of Andronico, and the Greeks.

In all times and ages have shown the equality of divine justice, but some are pointed out more
than others with the scourge of a pestilence, famine, or war. The latter was taken for the punishment
of Andronicus, and the Greeks that apart from the Roman obedience Church, the universal mother
who belong to the earth, fell into a thousand mistakes and they, and the other sins that were
previously followed, God allowed the Catalans were the ministers of his execution. Añadióse
to the damage of war, disease and home divisions, which between the Princes often the last and
greatest work, because he was confused councils, and weaken the forces, and is a short cut to
his destruction.

Irene wife of Emperor Andronicus judged by unworthy of his greatness and blood, their three sons
John, Theodore, and Demetrius had no part in the empire of his father having children of another
mother first called to the succession.

Michael and appointed by the Emperor, and Constantine Despot.

Sought by all possible means, that her husband Andronico divided
between its children some provinces of his empire.

Was not granted this request. He returned a second time other means to probe more damaging
and harmful to the Empire than the first, and was asked to declared them co-successors and his
brother Miguel. Also refused it with, Irene ambitious woman knowing the great love of her husband,
and away from double to constancy, and the desire to see her again was more powerful than what
had been his pleas, Thesafonica to be very contradictions of her husband, though not to publish
such intimate evils and secrets revealed on the outside that does not desplacia. Never absence
was taken by means of enhance a hobby, often before that the largest fading, as always seems
to experiments: The love and liking of Andronico went missing, and
the woman at the same pace desperate and closing the door to his claim,
bartered pleas threats.

Admitted talks and treatment of Princes Andronico foreign enemies. He sent his hierno called
Prince of the tribal cral and Servia, Simonide married to his daughter, and gave all the jewels,
and so much money that Nicephore wants, that he may establish income to support one hundred galleys,
in defense of the oceans and costs of empire. "In this division, which can not get rid? Kingdom
is not what ends? And most people fell into a military enemy, whom the desire of revenge set
in the need to die, or overcome.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

Our people make some forays, and take to the cities of Rodesto, and grazed.

Recalled to Gallipoli after the victory, were absolute masters of the campaign, and Andronico not daring to
leave Constantinople, and Miguel de Adrianople, they were so tight our weapons. Andronico to complaints
as much damage as they made the Catalans in their provinces, shrugged his shoulders, attributing
his sins to the punishment that God sent him and confessed that was no power to resist. To Moaronea,
Radope and Bizi hundred and seventy miles Gallipoli, making forays came with universal awe and wonder
of all the provinces; because there was no place that was free of his rage for remote and point
it to be. The Cities that wall its strength could not be undertaken, they felt these evils in their
vegas, and its gardens, burning and destroying as much as estimated, and taking prisoners to
many of those who drew large and continuous bailouts, not just entire
companies, but four, or six soldiers were doing these sets.

Pedro Almugavar Maclear, who served in the cavalry was found a desperate
night of his comrades have lost what I had to play decided to rebuild
what was lost, and retaliate with some damage to their enemies, that
he found advantage.

Mounted his horse, and two children he had, always walking between
enemies, came into the gardens which are glued to Constantinople,
where he then put his hand sort a father and son Genoese merchants.

He made them prisoners, and gave them free at Gallipoli that any person strove to prevent him, to
be twenty-five leagues of withdrawal. There were at their Rescue thousand and five hundred shields,
Almugavar rewarded with the lost, and won reputation brave and soldier talk. These and many other forays,
Montaner concerns, which were made with equal joy and admiration. A well was the boldness of
the Catalans. Rome saw himself head of the world, known then as much grandeur and glory that
vanished with victories and triumphs, attributed the popularity of eternal, but the arms of the
Goths and Vandals showed how short was his glory, and how false his attribute. The same thing
happened to Constantinople head of the Eastern Empire, in whom were raised together and deserved
the power and mercy by Constantine the Great, whose successors retained until the wrath of God
is executed their punishment, by delivering it remains to foreign nations, and this time almost
forced few Catalans and Aragonese, to get laws which gave to the many kingdoms and peoples.

Burned in the hearts of the Catalans to avenge the ignominious death of their ambassadors, in
natural and Rodesto neighbors, where they were torn so inhumanly and dead. Went out to this
day to the children, who was more powerful the passion of revenge, the weakness of his age.