 Aficionóse to mineralogy,
and many evenings, leaving the casino and pool, went to the contours of the village in search
of mineral stones and fossil specimens, coming to collect a rich collection. At times it also
gave him a workout in the microscope, he brought a costly Germany and began to examine and
prepare diatoms admirably on some crystals that he cut. Finally, having fallen into their hands
a book about making beer, entregóse with zeal to the study, called to England and started several
other to imagine that perhaps in Sarrió be happy and get a result with this huge profits unknown
industry. It came up a factory. But having communicated the project with his uncle, this man
tried saw fit to launch a series of inarticulate cries outside all the normal pitch, which ended
he was heard to exclaim:

- What! A Cuevas got a beer! The son of a captain, the grandson of an admiral Navy! You are treeless, Gonzalo.
Well the saying goes that idleness is the mother of all vices. If you had entered the School
of Marine and I advised you to these hours would be a midshipman and first, and you'd be running
the world without thinking such antics.

Gonzalo was silent, but did not continue reading its manufacturing methods. Understanding that
without seeing for himself the main factories and without studying the matter seriously not
reach any results, it was decided to pursue a career in industrial engineering England. When
he threw himself to tell his uncle, not the ocean sounded bad engineer's name; but the adjective industrial
reawakened in his mind the same storm hatred and resentment that had produced the beer.

- Industrial, industrial! Today any shoeshine industrial flame. Become a goodly engineer of
roads, canals and ports, or mine.

By this time he met, or to speak more accurately, tried, since everyone knew Sarrió, his current
girlfriend, Miss Belinchón. One day his uncle sent him home from the wealthy merchant with instructions
to ask if I could give you a letter on Manila. Don Rosendo was not at his desk, he was on the ground
floor of the house, and how the business was urgent, Gonzalo decided
to climb.

The maid who opened was in a hurry.

- Come in, Don Gonzalo, Miss Cecilia will tell you where the Lord.
He entered a room in disarray, with piles of clothes on the floor
and a table in the center where the first daughter of the lords of
Belinchón was aplanchado a shirt dress with no appropriate to their
category