 He gave his blood for the whole world was free and disappear
all monarchies.

- Me bato by France, because it is the country of the great Revolution. His past history did not
matter: for kings and we have ours.

But as of July 14, which is from France I consider myself and all
men.

He paused a few seconds, looking for a more specific statement:

- Beat me, captain, Danton and Hoche.

Ferragut saw in his mind the white mane of Michelet and Lamartine romantic toupee on a double
pedestal of volumes containing the history-poem of the Revolution.

- Beat me also for France - he finally said - it is the home of Victor Hugo.

Republican Ulysses sensed that twenty years had to keep a notebook in his backpack, written
in pencil, full of verses.

The South American, accustomed to the disputes of his two companions, his fingernails black with
the melancholy despair of a prophet who contemplates his homeland
in ruins.

Blanes, son of bourgeois admired him for his origin.

The day of mobilization had been in Paris to sign volunteer riding a car fifty horses. He and his
driver got ready together. Then he would grant his luxury vehicle.

He had wanted to be a soldier because all the youth of his club left for the war. In addition,
he was flattered that he devoted his last lover tears of admiration
and awe seeing uniform.

I felt the need to move to all the ladies who had danced the tango
with him until last week.

Moreover, the millions of his grandfather 'Galician', something gnawed by his father Creole, were
falling apart in your hands.

- It takes too long, Captain.

At first he had believed in a six-month war. The bullets he cared little, how terrible Scale was,
not moving the clothes, deprived of the daily bath. If he had guessed it ...

And he summed up his enthusiasm with this statement:

- Me bato by France because it is a country chic.

Only in Paris are well dressed women. These German, however much they do, will always be a regular.

No
need to add more, everything was said.

The three recalled the months of hell suffered recently in the Dardanelles,
in an area won six miles with the bayonet.

A rain of bullets fell incessantly on them. Had to live underground like moles, and even then, they
reached the outbreak of large shells.

In this tongue of land before Troy, which had slipped remote history humanity, shovels, opening
the trenches, faced with the most rare finds. A day, Blanes and his companions had brought
to light vases, figurines and dishes that they had thirty centuries. Repulsive softness cut again exhaling
a stench unbearable. Were opening trenches on a piece of land that
had served as a cemetery to the Turks.

Bellies swollen split apart under the blades, juices spilling its putrefaction. The need the
guard had forced the Legion to live with his face to the level of the bodies poking at the coalface
of disturbed soil.

- The dead were like truffles on a cake - said the South American -. I had to stay a whole day
with my nose touching the guts of a Turk died two weeks before ... No, war is not chic, captain,
though talk of heroism and sublime things in newspapers and books.

Ulysses wanted to see again to the "three musketeers" before from Thessaloniki, but the battalion
had raised their field, located many miles inland, opposite the first
Bulgarian lines.

Blanes enthusiast and fired his rifle against the murderers of Roger de Flor.

In mid-November came the Mare Nostrum Marseille.

Its captain always experienced some admiration to round the Cape Croisette, watching the bow
opened to a vast Maritime curve.

In the center of it, a steep hill and moved towards the sea naked, holding at its peak the basilica
and the square tower of Our Lady of the Guard.

Marseille was the metropolis of the Mediterranean, the port terminal for all boaters mare nostrum.
In the bay, from short waves rose several islands yellowish stripes foam, and one novel robust
towers Chateau d'If.

Everyone from Ferragut to the last sailors, looked like something out of city was hovering at
the bottom of the bay, its forests of masts and buildings crowding gray, over which shone the
Byzantine domes of the new cathedral. Around Marseille Chamber opened a dry bare heights, colored
brightly by the sun Provence. The towns and villages dotting these
slopes white and fortified towns, "Villas" of delight from the merchants
of the city.

Beyond the semicircle, the horizon was enclosed by an amphitheater of rough, dark mountains.

In
previous trips, the sight of the giant Virgin golden, shining like a spear of fire on top of
Our Lady of the Guard, spreading the joy on the bridge ship.

- Marseille, Toni! - Said the captain merrily -. Invites you to a home bouillabaisse Pascal.

And
Toni contracted the hairy face of gluttony smile seeing in advance
the famous restaurant port, halls smelling of twilight to seafood
and spicy sauces, and on the table the deep dish of fish with a delicious
broth tinged with saffron.

But now Odysseus had lost his vigorous joy of life. Eyes gazed upon the city loving but sad. Was
seen disembarking the last time, ill, without a will, stunned by
the tragic death of his son.

The Mare Nostrum came to the mouth of the old port, taking his right batteries Faro. The old
port was the most interesting memories of the former Marseille. Penetrated as a Water Knife in
the bowels of the settlement, the city extended their docks. Was a square to the huge water that
flowed all the streets, but their area was negligible for maritime
traffic, and eight new ports coming to cover the entire northern shore
of the bay.

An endless rubble, a wall longer than the city, stretched parallel to the sea, and space between the
bank and this obstacle, which required to froth and roar to the waves,
extending the eight large ports, communicating with each other from
the so-called de la Joliette, which was accessible to as far Stake.

Latter still dragged inland by the great underground channel which connects to the city the
Rhone.

Ferragut had been anchored in this series of coats of marine and even the whole earth of all ages.
Beside huge ocean liners the venerable swinging their dicks tartans
and some Greek ships, heavy and archaic forms, which were reminiscent
of the fleet described in the Iliad.

In its Circular Quay all Mediterranean men: mainland Greeks and islands Levantine coast of Asia,
Spanish, Italians, Algerians, Moroccans, Egyptians. Many kept their original costumes, and
clothing to the wide diversity joined language, some mysterious and almost lost. Attracted by the
confusion as oral, the French themselves forgot their language, speaking the dialect of Marseille,
which preserves traces Indelible Greek origin.

Mare nostrum crossed the outer harbor, the docks of Joliette, that of Lazareto, sliding slowly
through the steps of communication between groups of pedestrians and cars waiting restoration
of open steel swing bridges to its bow. Then went to anchor Arenc in the dock, near the docks.

When Ferragut could land, he realized the great transformation experienced by this port during the war.

The
traffic there was peacetime. Gender were not an infinite variety,
as usual.

At the docks just piled cargoes, monotonous and uniform, food or war material.

Gone were also the legions of downloaders. All were in the trenches. The banks were swept now by
women, and downloads the effected detachments Senegalese sharpshooters. Shivered with cold
in winter and sunny days hunched as dying in the rain or the breath
of the mistral.

Working with the red cap draft on the ears, and lower high in their tasks were rushing to put
their hands in their pockets cape. These black vocal groups formed around a bundle or a piece four
men had moved in ordinary time, and the passage of a woman or of a vehicle I was neglecting work,
turning their faces to hell with a childlike curiosity.

The download crowded into the main docks for the same items: wheat, much wheat and sulfur and saltpeter
for the composition of explosive materials.

In other halls were lined to thousands of pairs of gray wheels, hold guns and trucks, the big
boxes as houses containing planes, the steel parts that serve as scaffolding to the heavy artillery;
crates of rifles and cartridges, huge packages of canned food and sanitary materials; all
the equipment of the army that fought at the remote end of the Mediterranean.

Several platoons of men preceded and followed by bayonets marched from one port to another with
rhythmic step.

German prisoners were smiling and happy in spite of the captive still wearing their uniforms
of green cabbage, with a round hat on his head sheared. Iban to work inside the vessels, loading
or unloading the material to be used for the extermination of his countrymen and friends.

In the docks, the vapors showed extremely enlarged.

On arrival only stood on the dock a few feet of rail, but now that its cargo was stacked on land,
seemed like enormous strengths. Two thirds of the town hidden in the sea were always exposed,
showing the red piping on its belly. Only her keel was kept in water. The top third, which was
visible above the waterline in Ordinary Time was now a simple cornice crowned the long black
wall purple. Sticks and fireplaces, dwarfed by this transformation, seemed to belong to another
smaller vessel.

All these peaceful merchant steamers and carried a gun in the stern
to get rid of underwater pirates.

England and France had mobilized their tramps, vagabonds their boats, and began to give them means
of defense. Some were unable to mount the gun on a fixed carriage, and wore a piece of land
artillery, his mouth hovering between wheels nailed to the deck.

The captain, in all his walks, he was attracted by the famous Cannebière, via sucking that sucks
the whole activity of Marseille.

Some days, a fresh wind in her violent swirling dust and papers. The waiters in the cafes lashed
the big awning as if they were the sails of a ship. Mistral was approaching, and every owner of
established order to meet the maneuver the ice storm that turns tables, grabs seats and takes everything
that is not insured with marine mooring.

Ferragut thought he saw on the famous Marseilles an anteroom of Thessaloniki. The same types
East Army circulated by their sidewalks, khaki-clad British, Canadian and Australians raised
brimmed hats, large and slender Asian Indian, copper-skinned and beard in a fan; shooters Senegalese,
a black patent leather handles Annamese, round face and yellow, with triangle eyes. Trucks
constantly passing dark guided by soldiers, cars full of officers, mule trains from of Spain
that was to be shipped to the East, and live scattered trotting behind her smell sharp and brave
block.

The old port Ferragut attracted by its antiquity, almost as remote as the first navigation Mediterranean.
In this place of water sandwiched between their poor houses were anchored ships as early Phoenicians,
looking succeeded by migrants from Asia Minor Focea, sailors Greeks
fleeing the Persian invasion.

The bare limestone hills and immediate the port is covered with houses, and thus was born Marsalia,
which was to be centuries later the Lady of the Mediterranean.

His daring sailors down along the Spanish coast, and founded cities
that were centers of civilization to the rude Iberians and Marsalia
it was for the warlike Gauls.

Ferragut, going to the palace of the bag, threw a glance at the statues of the two Eutymenes great
navigators and Pyteas Marseille.

They were the remotest grandparents navigation Mediterranean, the first masters known from history
that it had transposed the columns Hercules, rushing across the Atlantic
mysterious.

One had explored the coasts of Senegal, the other was up more than Ireland and the Orkneys.

The ancient Greek city had been supplanted by others for many centuries. Venice Genoa and Barcelona
were in humble dependence. But when they fell and we will send it's time to prosperity, that prosperity
was accompanied by all the advantages of the time present. He had invented the steam engine,
and ships could easily save Gades Strait obstacle without having to wait weeks to 'sit violence
stream sent across the Atlantic.

He was born on industrialism, and factories thrown inside the rail, recently installed, a wave
of products that fleets were transported to all the peoples of the Mediterranean. Finally, to be
opened the Isthmus of Suez, the city unfolded a prodigious way, becoming an international port,
by contacting the whole earth, multiplying its docks, giant folds where flocks came to agglomerate
as ships of all flags.

The old port, boxed in the city, changing their appearance according
to the hours and the state atmosphere.

In the morning calm was a yellowish green and smelled faintly of water decomposed organic water,
water animal. The oysters and sea urchins positions established in Spring seemed sprinkled with
this water infused seafood.

The days of strong wind, all he was becoming an earthy green and opaque, forming short waves
and continuous, with a slightly yellowish foam. Ships began to dance, creaking under bus pull
straps. Among their helmets and the vertical surface of the springs are formed piles of garbage
restless fish bite down and pecked up by the seagulls.

In the mouth, near the strong venerable St. John and St. Nicholas, the shuttle lifted the two
pillars of steel truss and the bridge that links straight, forming a home triumph.

Armed boats patrolled the surrounding waters came to rest in this historic dock surrounded by
cafes, shops, warehouses, domes and bell towers.

Ferragut saw the fast torpedo boats, wafer-thin walls, dancing at the slightest ripple on their
moorings of twisted steel. Examined the "chaluteros' makeshift military vessels, steamers robust and
short, built for fishing in the bow carrying a gun snap shot. All of these smaller vessels, painted
a metallic gray to blend with the color of water, entered the harbor and out like sentinels
are replaced.

Standing guard on the high seas, beyond the rocky, deserted islands that enclose the bay Marseille,
approaching vessels to recognize their nationality, running at full steam smoke in their hair horizontal
to the point where they hoped to catch the periscope the hidden enemy
between two stools.

There was bad weather that scares them or they fall asleep ... Kept in a storm in sight of the
coast, jumping from wave to wave, with its fragile Boat built to be arrows, and only when other
colleagues were coming to replace them returning to the old port, to rest a few hours at the entrance
of the Cannebière.

The streets of the right bank appealed to Ferragut. Marseille were the former, which there
are still some ruined palaces of the merchants and owners of other centuries. In these narrow
roads, slopes and unclean living prostitution and sad daubed all maritime city.

Jammed in the neighborhood the warriors of the different French Africa,
driven by race and burning desire to get even with the big crunch
surfeits Muslim countries where women live in seclusion jealous.

On every corner there Moroccan infantry groups recently landed or convalescing from his wounds,
soldiers young people with red hats and long coats of yellow mustard. The Zouaves from Algiers
talking with them in a Spanish peppered with Arabic and French.

Black teenagers who served stokers on the ship moves through the steep streets with haunting
eyes glow as prepare a mass kidnapping.

Were lost under the doors, with a stiffness priestly Moors serious riders, dragging the white
alquicel tied at the head like a ball of crisp white, or the purple robe of acute hood, which
gave them the aspect of bearded Red Friars.

Between hospital discharge and the new battle awaiting them in the trenches of the North these warriors
come from distant countries to fight and die sun looking for the strong consolation of women. His
arms had been impatient with a fierce tug of skeletal females and macabre and they appeared
swollen by a false strength, due to bad moods.

Some had the disproportion embryonic fetuses with huge heads serving emaciated bodies to finish.
Other advancing his poor emaciated logs on legs pachyderm wide and
round.

The cash-strapped soldiers looked on with envy and hunger to the women stationed at the gates:
creatures of luxury and excitement, with kilts urinated full of sequins, high boots and yellow
stockings.

The captain was on the summits of these streets, stopping to appreciate the harsh contrast between
them and terminal view. Almost all came down to the old port, with a trail sewage stream in half
jumping from stone to stone.

It was dark as pipes telescope, and the end of their stinking trenches occupied by the deformed
Mujeri is opened a wide rift in light blue. White sailboats were anchored at the end of slope,
a piece of sheet water and the houses opposite the pier, dwarfed
by distance.

In other appeared as the background the mountain of Our Lady of the Guard Basilica with its
sharp and brilliant final statue, resembling a golden flame still and tortuous. Sometimes,
a shortstop, to enter the old port, slipped by mouth of one of these
dark lanes as if it were to the lens of a telescope.

Feeling fatigued the ocean by the smell and squalor of the old districts vicious, returned to
the city center, walking under the trees of the avenues of Meilhan or between flower stalls of Coso
Belz.

One evening, while waiting for the tram at the Cannebière surrounded by other people, again
head with the feeling that someone was looking behind him.

Indeed, he saw a man behind him on the curb, an elegant lady dressed,
clean-shaven, appeared to an Englishman in appearance careful of his
person.

This gentleman had stopped impelled by surprise, as if he had recognized Ferragut.

They exchanged glances of the two, but it awakened no echo in the memory of Captain ... I could
not remember this man. I was almost sure of not having ever seen.

His face shave its metallic-gray eyes, his elegant stiffness, said nothing to his memory. Perhaps
the suffered an unknown error.

This was to be, judging by how quickly separated his gaze from Ferragut, away hastily.

The captain did not give importance to this meeting.

I had forgotten to get on the tram, but minutes later resurfaced in his memory, a new light.
The face of English is presented in his imagination with a relief different from reality. He saw more
clearly that somewhat dim glow of the lamps of the Cannebière ... Passed with indifference their
facial features, in fact, had seen for the first time. But the eyes! ... He knew perfectly those
eyes had met many times with his family. Where? ... When? ...

Accompanied him to his ship the memory of this man as an obsession, unable to make their memory
of a reply to your questions. Then, when viewed in the camera with Toni Stern and the third
officer, returned to forget.

In the following days to go ashore,
its invariably experienced the same memory phenomenon. He was the
captain of the city, forgetting that individual, but on entering the
Cannebière immediately arose in his brain that memory, followed by
an inexplicable anxiety.

"Where is now my English? - Thought -. Where
you've seen before? ... Because there is no doubt we know! "

He looked
curiously from this moment, to all the passersby, and sometimes rushed
step to examine some who resembled him in the back. One evening she
thought she recognized hire a coach whose horse was going to live
trot Prado Avenue, but when he wanted to keep the vehicle on a street
was gone immediately.

The days passed and finally the captain missed
the meeting. Other matters more real and immediate was concerned.
His ship was ready, would be sent to England to carry ammunition for
the army of the East.

The morning of his departure down to the ground
not wanting to get to downtown.

In a street of the docks had a barber
shop frequented by the Spanish captains. Chat quaint barber, born
in Cartagena, the color plates fixed on the wall representing bullfights,
Madrid newspapers left in the rubber couches and a guitar in a corner
of this store did a bit of Spain for the homeless in the Mediterranean.

Ferragut,
before leaving, wanted to give their beards to clipping the master
verbose. When one hour, could leave the barbershop, pulling to the
endless bounces owner, followed by a wide street between two rows
of docks, solitary and silent.

Steel sliding doors were locked and
sealed. Warehouses, empty sound cathedral-like ships, even the strong
odors exhaled from the genres that had kept peacetime: vanilla, cinnamon,
rolls of leather, nitrates and phosphates for chemical fertilizers.
Did not see across the street but a man coming toward him with his
back to the dock. Between the two long walls of bricks came the pier
in the background, with mountains of goods, squares of black boots,
wagons and carts. Beyond were the hulls of ships, sustaining a forest
of poles and chimneys, and ultimately the yellow wall pier the sky
outside and freshly washed by rain, with a herd of placid white puffs
as silky rams.

The man who returned to the harbor and walked with
his eyes fixed on Ferragut stopped suddenly, turning on his heel and
returned to the dock ... This move aroused the curiosity Captain,
sharpening your senses