 

After the aforesaid, have great sacrifices that were made in Pachacama by Tupac Inca Yupanqui,
and large celebrations, which last, he turned back to Cuzco on a path that was done, what
you will get the Xauxa Valley, which runs through the snowy mountains of Pariacaca, which is something
to see and feel his greatness, and how large steps are, and today are and among those snows,
to get through. And visiting the provinces of the highland and providing and rearranging the
most convenient for good governance, who is close to Cuzco, to where he was received with
great feasts and dances, and made great sacrifices in the temple for their victories.

Chincha province in the past was much in this kingdom of Peru, and most populated People, therefore,
that before this one time with their masters had left and joined himself to the Collao, where,
with great spoil that hobieron, turned back to his province, where they were and were always
estimated their neighbors, and feared. The father of Tupac Inca Inca, is said Soras sent from
a captain with warriors, called Capac Inca, to obtain Chincha attract the lordship of his own:
but, although he was and what he tried, was low partly because got a weapon, and so it wanted
to defend, quel orejon, the best he could, returned, and were not seeing any captain until Tupac
Inca Inca subjugated, to what T hose same tale, for I do not know about this more than they
themselves.

Returning to the purpose, as Tupac Inca reached the Cuzco hobiese, as eScript, after to be loose
and have given to their hobbies seemed like days, sent it back to People call, with the intention
of ending the Lady Indians of Los Llanos. His command was met, and appeared in Cuzco speedily
masters of the provinces with people of war who were to bring, and put in order after the city
and what more King had to provide, out of Cuzco and down to the plains by way of Guaytaray. Knowing
its way, many were waiting for him with the intention of taking him as Lord, and many willing
to give him war and try to keep [it] in the freedom they had. In the valleys of the Nazca people
had back and ready against war.

Tupac Inca arrived, hobo embassies and talks between them, and although there were some stubbornness
and guerrillas, were content with what the Inca Dellos wanted by the foundation (and) that
hiciesen fortified houses and hobiese mitimaes, and pay tribute to what they put. And here was
the Inca to the valley of Ica, where he found more resistance in the Nazca, but, wisdom enough [to]
do, without war, enemies friends, and were broken as the last. In Chincha waiting if the Inca
were going to the valley, made more than thirty thousand men on the point of war, and hoped
to curry favor with the neighbors. Tupac Inca, as he knew, he sent messengers, with great presents for
the lords and masters and principals, said the ambassadors that of his party's hiciesen great
offers, and chelate did not want war with them, but peace and brotherhood, and other things
to this pass. The Chincha heard what the Inca he said, and received him his present, and were
for him some principal with what was in the valley and talked to him and sought the friendship
so that peace was settled, and Chincha weapons and were left to Tupac Inca, then moved to Chincha.
This counted mesmos Chincha Indians of Cuzco and the dried, other Indians from other provinces
have heard have it otherwise, because they say large hobo war more I believe that without it
was for Lord of Chincha.

Inca come to this valley, so great and beautiful saw it, was delighted. He praised the customs
of the natives, and with loving words I begged them to take those of Cuzco which would see them
add up, and they obeyed him and contented throughout, and given seat when it had to do, went
to Ica, where he was to what they call the Guarco, because questa knew war and turned around,
and it was true, because the natives of those valleys, taking little by their neighbors because
they had so unnerved and do not see why, given possession of their lands to stranger king, and
gathered a lot of courage, having made houses pucaraes strong in the part belonging to it,
near the sea, where they put their wives and children. And walking [188] the Inca with their
people in order, who is close to where they were their enemies, and sent their embassies to
big games, and sometimes threats and fierce, but did not want to go through the law of their neighbors,
who was foreign to Acknowledge, and with each other, the use of these parts, locked the war
and spent great things from them. And come the summer and hiciesen great heat, the people of
the Inca adolesció that was because he agreed to withdraw, and so, with more sanity as he could,
did, and those of Guarco out of its valley, and took their maintenance and meals, and turned to
sow the fields, and they made weapons and aparejábanse for, if the
Cuzco should come against them, found them apercebidos.

Tupac Inca Cuzco stirred about, and as men are of so little evidence, they saw than the Guarco
were left with what they tried, he began to have news from some of them, and rebelled and departed
from the service some of the Inca .-- These were natural valleys up the same coast .-- All the
king went to hearing, and what remained of that summer, he understood to make calls and send
people out to apricots were all over the kingdom to visit the provinces, and determined to win
the dominion of Guarco, though about it ingrowth was evident harm. As autumn came and went past
the heat of summer, with The more people who might join, down to the Plains and sent their ambassadors
to the valleys of them, afeándolos his unsteadiness in presuming he is up against, and they
were amonestóles firm in their friendship, where not, certificóles that the war would make cruel.
And how to get at first Guarco Valley, in Halden saw, he commanded his people to found a city
??to which his name Cuzco, as his chief seat, and the streets and hills and squares were the
real name. He said that even cattle would quel Guarco the native subjects of his, had to remain
the new settlement, and that it always People had to be quartered, and then hobo who did what
on what was ordered, moved with his people to where they were the enemy, and besieged it, and
so firm were in purpose, never wanted to come to any party, and had his war, which was so long,
saying that lasted three years, the summers of which the Inca went to Cuzco, leaving people quartered
in the new Cuzco he had done, that was always against the enemy.

And so, one to be gentlemen, and the other for not being slaves, tried to leave with his intention,
but finally, after three years, the Guarco were emaciated, and Inca, who met him, I again sent
ambassadors to them that they were all friends dijiesen and colleagues, quel did not want to marry
their sons but his daughters, and the resulting, sustener confederation all very equal, and other
things such deception, Paresce to Tupac Merescian grand Inca punishment for having given so much
work, and the Guarco, Paresce could no longer sustain many days, and that conditions would be
made by the Inca better to enjoy peace and quiet, gave what the Inca king wanted, who should not,
since leaving the fort, were the key to reverence him, and without thinking, commanded his people
that kill them all, and they put him with great cruelty at the hands, and slew all the major
and most honest men them who were there, and in they were not, also be carried out the sentence,
and killed as many as today, we have the descendants Dell and large piles of bones that there
are witnesses, and we believe that what about this account is what you see eScript.

This done, he ordered the Inca king and a graceful strength that so I told in Part [189]. Settled
the valley and put mitimaes and governor, having heard embassies which came from the Yuncas
and many mountain, commanded want to ruin the new Cuzco had been done, and all the people turned
around for the city of Cuzco, where he was received with great joy, and made great sacrifices to praise
him in the temple and oracles and therefore he was glad the town with parties and drinking and
táquis Solenoid.

As Tupac Inca reached the Cuzco hobiese with such great victories as has eScript, was some days
rejoiced at their feasts and drinking with their wives and concubines, who were many, and
their children, including growing up Huayna Capac, who was to be king and came out very courageous
and spirited. After the holidays, the great Tupac Inca thought of giving sight Collao and rule the earth
that could front more, and to do so, he issued apercebiesen people everywhere, and many tents
hiciesen sleeping in desert places. Y began to come with their masters, and to the round alojábanse
Cuzco, without entering the city ??other than the law does not proibia, and to each other and
to dutifully provided everything you need, taking into account this great governors and providers
MESMA city. And as hobiesen together all those who had to go to war, is made sacrifices their gods,
according to his blindness, making wizards, who knew of the oracles the end of the war, and
made a general and very splendid treat, Tupac left Cuzco Inca in the city leaving his lieutenant
and his eldest son Huayna Capac, and spare grand [190] and majesty, so Collasuyo walked, visiting
the seals and real drums, and rejoice by the peoples of the Canas and Canches.

Entering in the Collao, walked up Chucuito, where the lords of the earth together him to make
merry, and had its good order all collection and supply of maintenance without who miss more
than three hundred mill people who were on their real. Some lords Collao offered to go for
their people with the same saddle Inca, and with that said, came In malaria Titicaca, and
Loo to those who understood the works of the buildings that his father commanded to do, how well
they had done. In the temple made great sacrifices, and gave the idol priests and rich gifts,
according to so great a lord as he was. He returned to his people and walked throughout the
province to leave della Collao, sent his messengers to all nations of Charcas, Carangas and more
people who are in those lands. Dellas, flocked around him to serve and others to you make
war, but though it was given, his power was so great that enough to the subjugation, using the
conquered of great mercy, and with which it came, much love. In Paria sent to large buildings,
and do the same elsewhere. And some had Inca Tupac go to great things, many of which deprives
the forgetfulness, the need to have letters, and I summarily put something of how much we know
from what we hear and see, that here we are, what happened.

Going ahead of the Charcas victorious, went through many lands and depopulated provinces and large snow,
until he came to what we call Chile, and lorded over and conquered all the lands, in which they
say they came to the river Maule. As of Chile made some buildings and tributáronle of regions
much gold in ingots. Governors and mitimaes left, and since in order you had won, he returned to
Cuzco.

Towards the Levante sent apricots warned, in the dress of merchants, who would look for hobiese
lands and what the people sent, and ordered these other things, returned to Cuzco, in which
contend that turned to go out after a few days, and with people who agreed lead, went into
the Andes, and spent the grand work of the mountain wilderness, and conquered some villages in
that region, and sent many crops of coca plant, and which led Cuzco,
where he turned around.

And they say past few days, gave him some evil that caused his death, and commending his son
the government of the kingdom and their wives and children, and saying
other things, he died.

And there were great tears and feeling so remarkable from Quito to Chile, strange forests
thing to hear what the Indians on that count.

Where or in what place he is buried not say. That have killed large number of women and servers
and pages to get to him with so much treasure and jewels, which had mounted more than one million,
and would be little, because individual lords were buried some of them over a hundred miles
from Castile. Without so much that people got into his grave and hanged buried many women
and men in different parts of the kingdom, and everywhere were crying for an entire year and
is shorn of most of the women, putting all ropes esparto, and finish the year, came to make
their reputations. And what they say they used to I do not want to because they are nations,
and the Christians Quest in Cuzco year of fifteen hundred and fifty,
remember what they saw was made by the honors and After years of Inca
Paulo, with it having become Christians, and bring forth what would
in time the reign of former kings, rather than lose their sovereignty.

CAP. LXI .-- Of how he reigned at Cuzco Huayna Capac who was the Inca king dozen.

Dead king was the great Inca Tupac Yupanqui, is understood to make their funeral rites and burial
the use of their elders, with great pomp. And have the apricots, which secretly plotted between
freedom to collect some past and hold it the command of the Incas, and in fact leave with what
they intended, if not for the very quick, which gave the governors of the Inca with people
of mitimaes and captains, they could sustain such a troubled time and had no king, they had
charged last nickel. Huayna Capac not neglected or failed to meet that he must show courage to
keep it that his father worked so hard won. Then it came to making the fast, and the city will
ruling was faithful and loyal. Have not stopped some confusion among the Incas mesmos, because
some children of Tupac Inca, have occurred in other Coya women, wanted to pretend to be [191]
the kingship, but the people who Vian was with Huayna Capac, not consent, but interfered with
the punishment that was done. Finish fasting, Huayna Capac went with tassel very gallant and
dressed, and made the cirimonias used by their past, to which the
name of king wore, and so loud voices they said [192]: Inca Huayna
Capac Zapalla tucuillacta Uya, which means, "Huayna Capac only is
king Øyan unto him all peoples.

"

Huayna Capac was, as they say many Indians saw him and knew of no very great body but bent and
well done, good and very serious face, a few words, many facts was righteous and punished without
restraint. I wanted to be as feared, that night I dreamed of Indians. Ate as they use, and
so lived cycle of women, if you can tell, hear to those who spoke well, and believed very light:
long deprived him of flatterers and flattering, that among them there were plenty, and today
there is no longer, and gave ear to lies, was the reason that many died without guilt. For
the young men who slept meat tempted to their wives or concubines, or with which they were in
the temple of the sun, then sent them to kill to them, and to punish them equally. For those who
punished him by riots and mutinies, deprived of estates, giving them to others, from other causes,
was punishment .-- Many people only desto conceal his father, especially the women, that when
he took one with them, young men said they were .-- His mother of Huayna Capac, leading lady,
wife and sister who was Inca Tupac Yupanqui, called Mama Ocllo say that was of great prudence,
and warned her son that she saw many things to do to Tupac Inca, and loved him so much that
he begged not to go to Quito and to Chile, until she was dead, and so, do you have that pleasure
and obey his command, was at Cuzco without leave until she died and was buried with grand pomp, getting
in his grave many treasures and fine clothes and their wives and servants. The treasures of the
Incas more deaths and estates, which called Chaco, everything was entirely from the first,
and none dared to spend and do not touch because they did not have wars between and needs the money
hobiese of remedy, for where we believe there are great treasures in the bowels of the earth lost, and
so will be forever, if perchance, one, building or doing something
else, do not bump into something much there.

CAP. LXII .-- How Huayna Capac left Cuzco and what he did.

Huayna Capac had ordered Paresce before him to the chief lords of natural provinces, and while
his court full of them, he married his sister Chimbo Ocllo and therefore were big parties, leaving
the crying for the death of Tupac Inca were done. And finished, he ordered him to go aside up
to fifty thousand men of war with whom I wanted to go together to visit the provinces of his
kingdom. As commanded, stood by the work, and left Cuzco with more pomp and authority than his
father, for the litter would be so rich, to the assertions of those who carried the king on his shoulders,
had not price of the precious stones so large and many who were in them, without the gold that
Heran made.

And it was through the provinces of Xaquixaguana and Andaguaylas, and associates of the Soras
and Lucanas [193] where embassies sent to many parts of the plains and mountains, and was answered
Dell and others, with great presents and offerings.

He returned from those places to Cuzco, where he was understood to make big sacrifices the sun
and those who had more gods, which were favorable to the day I wanted do, and gave great gifts
to the idols of the buried treasures, and knew of the liars, by the
said of demons, or because they invented it, it had to happen prosperously
in days I wanted to do, and would return to Cuzco with great honor
and profit.

This finish in many parts of people came with their guns and captains, by his order, and housed in the
city were provided.

In the building of the fortress was understood, while the styling for this day none reported. In
the plaza of Cuzco was the grand chain of gold, and there was great dancing and drinking; and,
next to the stone of the war, were named captains and bossy, as his custom; and ordering, Huayna
Capac had a parliament, well ordered and said with vehement words, on it were loyal and those
who were with him, as those who remained. Responded that of service not be leaving, which
gave the loo and I hope to make large grants. And being rigged for the day what was needed,
left Cuzco with everyone of war who had gathered, and a big road, so proud as today Paresce,
all here because of what we see and walk by him, walked towards the Collao, showing the provinces
have passed in just the great services rendered him, for they say that It said that the Incas
everything they owe. Understood to know what gave him tribute, and possibility of the province
collected many women, the most beautiful that could be found; Dellas
took for himself, and others gave to his captains and private, the
others were placed on the temple of the sun and stored there.

Entering the Collao, brought him realize that he had large herds of cattle, and how many loads
of fine wool mill were taking a year to those that made the clothes for your home and service.
On the island of Titicaca came in and ordered great sacrifices. In Chuquiabo [194], ordered Indians
were shelves with their suppliers to take gold metal with the order and regiment has been eScript.
Going forward, he ordered the Charcas and other nations to the Chichas bring forth out large
amount of silver pastes, which are taken to Cuzco on your own, without nothing missing; transport
some mitimaes of a party to another, although there were days that were accommodated; ordered
that all work and no loose, because they said the land where there were lazy, did not think anything
but how to find scandals and corrupt honesty women. He went, ordered to build inns and places,
giving his hand the trace; terms distributed to many provinces and known limit, so that, for
aventajallo not should come to blows. His warriors, though much, was so adjusted, that did not come
out the real one step, as they went, the natives provided what is necessary so dutifully, that
was what was left to what was spent. In some places built bathing and other reserves, and the
deserts were great houses. Inca quel everywhere wrong, he had done such things, it is admiration
count.

When they wandered punished without missing ignore anything and pander to those who served
him well.

Sort these things and went from the provinces subjective agora to the Villa de la Plata, and at Tucuman
[195] sent people to war captains to the Chiriguanos, but do not was good, because turned and fled.
Moreover, towards the South Sea, sent more people other captains, to that dominated the valleys
and villages of all his father could not conquer. He was walking with all his people towards Chile,
putting an end to tame, he went, people he had. He spent much work
for the wilds and the snow was a lot of them fell; awnings had to
be guarescer and many yanaconas and women of service. For all these
snow was becoming the way, or was done, and very clean, and posts
made by him