 I think that Mr. Cura is already in his room.

The priest had retired to her room. Had to leave early in the morning and did not want disclosed.

I
went into the corridor. Splendid night, a wintry night so serene, clean and bountiful clouds
in stars, that seemed like part of me that after the young he confessed
his love.

Sitting in an old chair that belonged to my grandfather, I thought Angelina. Would not see more in
the yard or in the corridors, and take care of the birds and plants. Galanas, leafy, when spring
comes, our beloved flowers, which we plant, of them and I expect Linilla wonderful loving
fidelity tests, would look not for my love its fragrant blossoms, none of which adorn the black
hair of girl. Goodbye joy! It was with her, perhaps never to return! We would be tearful depressed,
moody, missing the poor orphan, whose beautiful and modest young
had been for our poor house, always sad and gloomy, like a sunbeam.

Nocturnal insects whistled as hidden from the foliage, the datura, rocked by the wind, swung heavily
satin bells, the "smell of night" had no flavor, and silent running
water down the drain the basin.

Suddenly the wind kicked up, I shuddered cold, and closed my eyes.

I do not know how long I was so numb, overwhelmed with grief.

My heart ached I felt ...-- I touched on the shoulder, and told me
quietly, very quietly:

- Rodolfo!

... Rodolfo!

Was Linilla.

- You all have been gathered, - muttered - and I've come to say goodbye,
I do not want to see you tomorrow.

- Do not you want me?

- No, I
would be impossible to get out of here ... I could not hold back my
tears!

Pretend you're asleep, you're sick, you do not want to get up, what is best, but do not go!

- Sit down here beside me in this chair ....

- No, Rorra. I go, I do not know when I will return. Will you see me? Yes .. Is not it? I write
.... I take your picture, and I'll look at all hours, and read your letters until I know them
by heart. Be sure to write me, I pray, and love me, love me like I love you! Think I've been
very unhappy, I'm alone, almost alone in the world, because the holy old man, who has been
to me a real father will live long, the day I miss .... Before I knew it was my only love, and I said
to myself: while I live my father alive, then ... Why? Now I think that, and I live, I live
for you, to love, to be loved! I told you 'd forget, I forget .... No, Rodolfo, do not forget
me! I forget ... because you, you can not forget! Your love is the only happiness of my life and I can
not lose! ... Even that for this poor orphan! No, the sky will not let me forget .... Is not
it is not possible?

Think of me talk about me all the time, with your aunts, with Lady Jane, with anyone! ... I
want to be forever in your heart, I want to be at all times in your mind; everywhere you go.
Think of me when you're working, when you read, when you pray ....
Up when you sleep!

... Dream with me, dream with your Linilla! ...

Could not more. The tears choked her. He lay in my arms, and rested his head on mine. Sob ....
He tried to speak but could not. She took my hand, pressed it tightly, and kissed me effusion
in children.

After long silence made an effort, and tired, as if pressing on the chest, I said, handing an
object from his pocket apron:

- Take: a medal, I've been to the neck as a child, I put my mother and me I have taken to give
it .... Now, tell me goodbye, and sorry if my baby is cause for bitterness for you! ...

I was going to stop it. I pulled gently, and went step by step.

XXXVI

Then turned to my favorite walks every morning and every evening, before and after going to
the office of the lawyer.

Again walked the banks of the Stony, and got one hundred sometimes
Brush Hill.

In all recorded river poplars Linilla initials, or a single letter, an "L", to remind me every step
of the name of my beloved. But my favorite place was the highest rock of the hill. From there
I discovered the summits elevations of the Sierra. Behind one of them was the village of San
Sebastian where he dwelt the poor girl. I long hours I spent on that site, along with curious eyes
the clouds or mists that were driven thither by the wind, and I loved to watch how they died
out gradually, on the peaks of those mountains, the last light of the dying day. At night
I threw me to wander the streets of the city past or about to sit on San Antonio cemetery at
the foot of a cypress tree near the place where Angelina said, when I asked if I would always
love:

- How today and tomorrow, even after death!

From there it dominates the southern valley, bordered by the mountains of the Sierra, which
unfolded on the winter sky its unique constellations: Orion, the
Can, and the ship whose masts flashed the magnificent Canopus.

But the dark nights were more beautiful to me. My thoughts flying through the shadows in search of the
humble parish house, I imagined I was there, in the modest living room near the priest, and Angelina
side. I attended the game of chess, and reading session. The old man in his chair, Angelina
to one side, near the table, in the lamplight with a book hands.

If even I could hear the voice of Argentina, flirtatious, suggestive, it sounded in my ears
like the sound of a wind harp.

Some nights when the storm with lurid glare lit the tops of the mountains,
I was pleased I admire the fires of the storm, the lightning that
followed one another without ceasing with the din of a thousand thunders,
repeated by the echoes, the greatness of that increased sky show,
as if the entire race to cross the sky one hundred trains of war,
outbreak of thousands and thousands of guns.

The storm moved away, the sky was clearing, the moon looked out, and
clouds, by frightening black and white became celajes fringed feathers,
lace, fringe of silvery; in sailing skiffs, in nacelles nacre, in
beautiful swan neck erect and wings upright, who rowed in a gulf of
clear water dotted with stars.

Who was there! Who bogara to these valleys as they lost in the folds of the mountain! Who could
follow in its mysterious twists! At that hour of sleep birds, the winds were silent, and would
be heard only on the slopes, in ravines, gorges, the breath of the
forests, the awesome breath of the forest.

One morning I came to the house Dr. Sarmiento, was very fast, very
fast, called the door and told Juana:

- Rodolfo?

Not at home? For ea! I hope to tell you tonight ... I need you ... Huh?

I did not expect. The physician was in his office, leafing through tomes do not know what.

- Oh, boy, you arrive on time.

Will dine with me. I have good news for you .... Come Sit, chat. How are there? Going on, eh? Go
wrong, son Dona Carmen is wrong, very wrong, the way that kid is going to cause an upset.
You know: joy, entertainment ....

- Joy?

- Yes, joy! ...

- In my house can not have that ....

- Well, look what you do.

Tell your Aunt Pepa to try to distract her sister.

The other day I, and I found them in tears, crying her eyes out.

What? - Asked .-- 'Nothing: Angelina went !...»

But you'll see, boy, as all that happens!

What is now, when arrive ... You'll see .... Good time to give you!

-
Why, doctor?

- I came Fernández ... I talked to him, and he said
that the April 15 waiting at the hacienda.

Tomorrow will come forth with all the family .... Is a done deal,
there will have a placement very regular .... Castro warns .... No
more arguments!

No more gossip or lawsuits!

I said to the gentleman who does not understand jack of business,
but you will learn.

Good person! Very good person! Try to see him tomorrow, before noon,
you will give this card ... y. ..

Go! Now, the dining room! ...

When I got home my heart skipped a beat. I went in, and aunt came to meet me Pepilla:

- Rorra! Rorra! Look ...-- and taught me a letter.

- What is that?

     - Look ... A letter!

- Angelina?

- Angelina!

... Let's see what you said ....

- Yes, aunt, but after I read it ....

- How you want, Rorra! - Replied with a smile.

I ran to my room, lit the lamp, and, overcome by emotion very profound, I read the letter.

My aunt attempted in vain to hide his impatience.

- What? ...

- Now, auntie, quiet, quiet! I will read it, but Aunt Carmen's hear too ....

Linilla had foreseen the case and wrote two letters: one to read before I could of my aunts, the
one for me .... Just for me!

With what joy the good old received the letter from the young! When I finished reading were crying.

I
wanted to be alone, and ran to my room .... Tell them that I had jobs in the finance Santa Clara?
Who thought of that!

Angelina's letter read:

XXXVII

"Rorra:

Because I imagine you'll be very angry with me because I wrote, then, of course, as you wanted. But
look: it was not my fault: We arrived very late and I was tired, really tired, that all weighting
is short. These roads are very pretty, prettiest, y. .. Very heavy!
Hard! What passes!

But ... What scenery! You, you were so fond of all these things, you would be delighted. Everywhere
dense forests .... It seems that he has not touched the hand of man. Everywhere crops, farms
and cabins. And flowers, or say! I've seen some in tree trunks, and other, vines, which are to praise
God. And that we even in winter. What will be in April and May?

The next day I started to fix the house. It was awful! Francisca is useless. Poor is old and sick.
No right out of the kitchen, it does nothing. You know I'm not lazy; I say work, y. .. To work!
The house has been pretty, pretty, because the order and toilet embellish everything. When
we all were sad and gloomy. What is now glad to walk around these parts. Only I have none at
all, because sadness is killing me .... Each time I just want to mourn. I escaped, I go to
the garden, or the church, and there, alone, no one sees me, I cry and cry for you. Sometimes I
think I'm alone in the world, nobody can I want, that you no longer think of me, your poor ....
Linilla But I have moments of joy, very sweet, when I think I want a long, long, and they're silent,
head down, sad and sorry for my separation. And I say, "Better! Best! Distressing! That suffer;
That is a sign that I like and think of me! "Forgive me. Love is selfish. We the happiness of
the beloved, and yet, we are pleased that as we suffer and cry. Are not you sad, and until
you want to mourn, because I'm not there at your side and do not see me or hear my voice? I
do see you, see you at all times, not portrait. The environment eyes, and then you appear before
me, just the same as you .... And I talk, and talk to me and you very affectionate with me,
very cute!

And look at me, and I look .... Then I'm happy, very happy, and I feel the happiest of women.
But when I get sad and wanting to mourn, I close my eyes then y. .. Boo! I've been thinking, when
this happens to me, that in those moments I want, do not think of me I've forgotten I'm a corpse
in your memory.

And this distresses me, saddens me, fills me with bitterness. Is it true that sometimes you forget
Your Linilla? So you Linilla not forget you, or you away for a moment from his memory. Is it
true In some moments you live for ... another? Is not that right? Is not that only live for
me?

Yesterday in the afternoon we went for a walk along the banks of the people, they are all slopes.
Dad sat on a rock and began to pray the office, and I, meanwhile,
threw me for those intricacies, and climbed and climbed up to a peak
from which to see some of the valleys Pluviosilla and Villaverde.

     I reached the top, and I fatigadísima.

It is true that since there are mastered Pluviosilla fields, but
alas! just a little, very little, the hills of Villaverde; just the
tip of the brush.

I would have given much to see, albeit from afar, the rock on which
you sit down to watch the sunset.

The sky was very clean and clear, no clouds in the region, and I said, who was bird to fly there,
and fly and fly in search of Rorra, my Rorra! Sitting there among the foliage, I thinking
of you, but eager to mourn .... It was late, I went down and down, Many cut flowers, and since I can
not mandártelas, I chose a fern that is in this letter.

Bring a little something ... What do you guess? You remember that night when we said goodbye,
you asked me the flowers I had in mind? Do you remember what you said? ... I am ashamed to write
it; but you understand me! ... Write me, Rorra. Write me, darling, look at that if I put four
letters, although only four letters, I'm going to die of grief.

Do not be lazy, Rorra. You are very lazy, and although I love very much, as I to you, you
can not write time, and the waiter will come and bring me no letter from you, and I'll have to wait
eight days, eight days, which will be for me eight centuries! Write me, look I'm ready to
go to the ranch of the Cedars to find the waiter to give me the letters and orders. Imagine
what penalty will I have if you do not write me!

It's too late: just hit the clock in the room of twelve o'clock, and I can not follow writing. Since
I wrote the other letter, so you do not see the commitment to read
it before your aunts, and so will be in front.

Two little letters: one for you and for all, one for ... "My Rodolfo."

Take good care of your aunts, particularly Dona Carmelita. Think of the poor is very sick, very nervous,
and need love and affection. Since I write four lines. Tell Mrs. Pepilla if you have some
great work at hand, send me accoutrements, that I will help here;
I have much pleasure in helping, that I have spare time and I can
use it at that.

Tell me what you do and how you spend your time when you leave the desk, tell me if you think me,
if you remember your Linilla who loves you much, much, much, and only lives to love. Goodbye!

Angelina.

PS
- Watch out not to write! Here he might not go back to thinking about you. "

XXXVIII

Angelina's letter to my soul was saddened as the ray of sun that dissipates in valleys mists
and banks left by the storm. I was happy, happy, happy and proud to be loved. Something like
a breath of spring winds flooded my soul and my unconscious came
to revive heart.

I did not pick me up without writing prior to Linilla. Lay all around me. Through the window wide
open, came the scents of the garden, the water flowed silently down the drain pylon, and from
time to time, the station agent florida, heralded a goldfinch his loving serenade.

At midnight I dropped the pen, and read and reread my letter, six sheets written by the four veneers.
Discouragement prey inexplicable got the specifications in the envelope. No, did not say those
page what I felt my heart. In vain I insisted to transmit to the paper prints mine that produced
the letter, in vain I struggled to express the emotion of my soul deeply moved, the sublime emotion
Lord of my spirit knotted my tongue, licked my paralyzed eyes and my mind.

Discouraged, dog-tired, I lay in bed. The incomparable joy of a moment happened to me a pitiful
state, and tried to sleep.

Someone has said that sleep is an advance that makes us death. Sweet and refreshing after work,
consoling and beneficial when the pain in your chest jacking their jaws milano; rich in images
and fantasies when he is with us the hope, often aloof, disdainful cruel, if happiness smiles
when we ask you to complete our happiness, a bouquet his crown of poppies.

The dream long in coming. As I became to think that soon I would have to be separated of the
house to go among strangers and strange win a piece of bread.

What would you do without me the poor elderly? What would you do if I left? Have more money,
it is true, but left alone, and abandoned, with no friends to an
old servant and worked ailing; a doctor as poor as them, and a schoolmaster
who was dying of sadness y. .. Hungry!

Angelina was necessary to
go find a maid to come to the aid of my aunt and Mrs. Pepa Juana.
But, how to pay your services? My salary is not always paid on time,
because of the bad memory of Castro Perez and my shyness to claims,
which won my aunt with flowers and their kids, and Andrew gave us
was all we had. We resolved to remove a dish on the table, and that
that ours was not, of course, table bankers or princes.

I was going
to make a good living, as I did not know, but anyway, it would not
be as scant as I paid the legal expert. I would at the ranch house
and food, the weather improved, was the case and take advantage of
good luck, but the thought of leaving my aunts, even if to meet their
needs more broadly, tormented me, filled me with anguish, and I kept
thinking that terrify the promised jobs would require me dealing with
people who do not deem me who may not know me, and which would I have
to suffer scorn and abuse. When talking about the supposed happiness
of the rich, and commends the abundance of living, luxury spending,
amenities enjoyed and being around them, no one is right to point
out the only thing the darlings of fortune da real superiority over
those who live daily work, arduous and poorly paid. No, not an enviable
superiority in social respects, and in public estimation, that although
apparent and mind is powerful element of happiness, because it makes
everyone saved consideration and respect, or is in the quiet of a
life without desires, - that also has the rich, and great and terrible
- but in the noble integrity which gives them reject money for the
outrages, not to ask anyone for favors or leniency with shortage decorum
itself. Poverty reduction of regular characters, depresses the mind,
debases the soul, the levels with the most abject, and only very lifted
spirits, spirits of sublime temple, the test unscathed. When we usually
encounter petty beings with souls degraded, for which self-respect
is vain word, if not reach the ears touches the heart, or dyed red
cheeks, saying: "Soul of a slave!" And without wanting to think of
a life of misery that debased the character and spirit trap for fools.
Say what you will, that nobility is the only happiness of the rich.
For her, only for her, admiring the world. Everything else that they
envy the crowd is like the crown of tinsel that surrounds the front
of the actor. Noble dignity, dignity enviable places except higher
heart clothes