 Saw himself seriously hurry to survive. The boy was in his way a lot in any work. Devoted
himself to go from house to house lower performing trades and painful, to bring water or scrubbing
floors, carrying messages, the only thing he could do, having no job whatsoever. But at one
point appears to be that the left forces, their health, each shaky day, the waste was leaving
for work. Was fired from some houses. Other followed by charity used, although less frequently.
Began to starve and son too.

One day she was fired also the only house that already attended.

-
Basilisa - said Mrs. - You can no longer bring water and scrub floors.

It is you killing and can not meet properly. I need to find another assistant ... Well I would
like keep her ... but I'm not rich, you know ... we have many expenses ...

- Yes, ma'am, yes, I understand - said the humble and unhappy with forced smile .-- Too has done
for me.

Left the house, its last refuge, his heart tightened and legs unsteady. Razorfen reached the
dwelling in the suburbs. His son slept in the crib the sweet dream and serenity of the angels.
The poor fell to his knees and sobbed for a long time.

He lifted his head at last, and said silently watching the child:

-
No, not go to the hospice!

Multiple Wives, and even some lady too, had advised. But the idea of ??leaving the son of her
womb in the hands of women employees sordid and brutal horror had forever. He fought bravely
as he could, depriving it of necessary sustenance enough times to feed the child, which already
had about three years. He had, however, to the fight and was defeated. He was the use of begging,
but besides the horror that caused him, understood very well that
his days were numbered.

And dying it, what would become of the creature?

He pondered a good room with dry eyes fixed on the child, repeating
from time to time the same phrase:

- No, not go to the hospice!

Rose suddenly animated by a fatal desire, kissed her son passionately until managed to wake him,
envolviolo in a blanket and holding it at arms out of the house.

It was the hour of dusk. From the top of the worms, where Basilisa lived, could be seen arriving
the wharf and fishing boats. A crowd awaited them.

On the square, and the long street running from it to the church
by the sea, also ran a lot of people.

Basilisa took Rodillero the road that encircles the opposite side
gives the small cove Peñascosa front by front, and hurried away, almost
running.

- Why are you, Mom?

Where are we going? - Asked the boy with his tiny hands stroking
his face.

- We go to heaven, my love - said the unhappy eyes clouded
with tears.

- Are we going to Dad?

Could not answer, he felt a lump in my throat.

- Come to Daddy?

"- Insisted the young.

He paused a moment to catch his breath.

- Yes, let's see, rich mine - said after .-- Do not you want to go
to heaven with him?

- No, I with you.

And at the same time choked with tender arms and covered her face
with kisses.

- Why are you crying, Mom? - Asked surprised to feel
on the lips bitterness of tears .-- Can not you got anything? Take
my horn ...

And he offered a lead that had cost Basilisa two quarters.