 And as were passing day, the
greeting was becoming more expressive. Without speaking a word seems to be established trust between
them.

Clementina did not try to analyze the feeling he felt for the young Alcázar. Was little fond
look inside. I thought vaguely that was a charity showing courteous to him. "Poor fellow - you
said -. I adored his mother! And how happy she had being a child so good and loving! "One evening,
when you took over a month of these greetings, he asked Pepe Castro

-
Hear: has stopped following you and that blond boy of yore?

Clementina felt a strange thrill: got slightly red without knowing
herself why.

- Yes ... ago and at least a month since I've seen.

Why lie? Castro was so far from thinking that between that unknown tracker and his beloved mediate
any relationship, did not notice the blush. Then went to something else with indifference.
But for our lady, shaking and that that singular warmth in cheeks was a revelation vague in his
mind what befell. The first specific evidence of this revelation was that he left the house of
her lover, instead of going thought in it, reflected that too faithfully fulfilled Alcázar not
followed his word. The second was that to stop at a jewelry shop window and see a brilliant must-see
figure butterfly, it was said that some of those he had seen at her blonde friend were much more
beautiful and bright. The third was purchased to enter the house of Fe to buy some novels French.
It occurred to see so many books, her lover Pepe Castro had not read any of them, nor read probably.
Before, it was funny this ignorance was now ridiculous.

Days passed. Mrs. Osorio, weary of the fashionable life, having exhausted all the emotions that features
a lady distinguished for her beauty and wealth, would it please extreme in that innocent greeting
almost every day changed the young man's viewpoint. One evening, having dropped the car in Retirement
walk a few laps, ran with Alcazar and his sister in a street tree. He led a salute very expressive.
Raymond responded with the same affectionate respect as always, but noted that Clementina she
did so with marked coldness. This worried her and put her in a bad mood all day, more than
ever wanted to confess that the cause of your discomfort and it was melancholy. Shortly little,
due to his irritable temperament and capricious, that he had affair died at birth, was occupying
his mind sprouting in him a wish. The individual is Lady appetites were always violent, especially
if were an obstacle, as such, passengers too.

One morning, after saying goodbye to Raymond's hand closing and opening repeatedly with the grace
peculiar to the Spanish ladies, and after walking a short distance, for a almost involuntary
movement turned his head and raised her eyes again to the lookout. Raimundo was watching with
some opera glasses. He got heavily red: his pace overcome with shame. Why should the fact that
nonsense? What would he think of the young Naturalist? At least, to be embodied in love with
him. For despite these ideas swarmed disturbed in his head as he walked quickly to turn the
corner and concealed from the looks of it, was not so irritated against herself as usual. I
was ashamed, that's true, but then he could walk slowly invaded sweet emotion his mind, he felt
a pleasant tingling in the heart as there was already a long time since not feel. "If you go
back to my days fanciulla! he said smiling. And he began to recreate considering their own
emotion happy with that return shocks of the innocent the first age. Going so absorbed in thought,
upon arriving at the Cibeles, instead to take the Calle de Alcala to go home to Castro who was
cited for that hour turned around as if walking through that site. When I said hesitantly stopped.
At last he confessed that he had no great desire to attend the event. "I'm going to see mom - said,
--. Poor days ago not spend some time with me. "And she set forth toward the ride Luchana.
It was an excellent mood. A mechanical piano played by Lucrecia toast nearby and stopped to
listen, she is bored in the hearing of the Real's most famous altos! But music is a voice from
heaven, and only well understood when the sky has already penetrated a bit in our hearts.

On the down Recoletos Pinedo, that memorable character who lived with one foot in the aristocratic
world and another in the middle class clerks to actually belonged. He brought his side to a nice
young man who must be his daughter, but Clementina did not. Pinedo was removed from the society
he frequented, the same carefully concealed that Triboulet. Osorio's wife had always treated
this character with a bit of arrogance, which was not unusual as we know it. But now the pleasant state
of mind the expansive became flat for a few moments. As directing a serious crossed Pinedo
sombrerazo ceremoniously as usual, the lady stopped and approached him with a smile on lips.

-
My friend, you are a practical man, also takes this time of morning breath clean air and take
a sun bath.

Contrary to custom and nature, Pinedo was a little confused, perhaps because he did not present
his daughter grace this colorful lady. Repúsose instantly, however, and responded bowing gallantly:

-
And see if God gives me a few unpleasant trips like the one we've
had.

Clementina smiled benevolently.

- You must not take this flower even indirectly bringing his side
a young so cute.

Is your daughter?

- Yes, ma'am .... Mrs. Osorio - he added, turning to the girl.

This flushed with pleasure at being called beautiful by that lady
who knew both sight and name.

It was a tall, slender, brown face, with tiny features well drawn and sweet and happy little eyes.

-
Well I had heard that you had a very pretty girl, but I see that
the fame has been short.

The girl blushed even more and could barely mutter thanks.

- Come
on, Clementina, do not you think it will .... This lady, Pilar - he
added, turning it - is pleased to tell lies like others to say nice
bitter truths.

- I can see it is very nice - the girl said.

- Pay
no attention.

You're beautiful, is in sight.

- Oh, Lady! ...

- And tell me, father tyrant, why do not you a little more fun? Is it well done you will see in
any theater, dances and meetings and has locked up this beautiful girl? Or do you figure that
we have more happy to see you that she?

The poor Pinedo felt a shiver of pain he tried to hide. Clementina had touched frivolously in
the most sensitive part of your heart.

His salary will already know that not consented but to live modestly.

If I entered a society that was just not his to maintain employment, which was their sole support
and your daughter. This he knew nothing yet life plan.

Pinedo expected to marry a humble and hardworking man and he did not know ever that the world
we could not live and that he despised at the bottom of the soul,
although such time, by force of habit, and could not live comfortably
in another.

- It is still very young .... Have fun time - said with
a forced smile.

- Bah, bah! you say you're a great selfish .... And
how long has it been since have you been in Valpardo house? - said
the lady going to another conversation.

- Well, on Monday.

The countess asked me with much interest you and complains that has
abandoned.

- Poor Anita: It's true!

On the homeowners and their gatherings, Pinedo and Clementina began a conversation lively and
inexhaustible.

Pilar listened attentively at first, but as they knew most from those characters ended by casting
her eye distracted by the surroundings, olds to the few passersby
who happened to pass that hour there.

- Father: - said taking advantage
of a moment's pause -.

Here comes this young friend of yours that keeps his mother and sisters.

Pinedo Clementine and again at the same time they saw the head and
Rafael Alcantara the famous skull we have met in the Savage Club.

-
What has a mother and her sisters! - The lady exclaimed in amazement.

-
Yes, a really good guy, my dad, called Rafael Alcántara.

Looking back, more and more amazed at Pinedo, he nodded quite expressive. Not knowing what that
meant, but figuring that his friend was interested in not be characterized as a Alcántara as
he deserved, Clementina was silent.

The young savage, crossing them made a friendly greeting between
family.

Pinedo hand instantly reached out to say goodbye.

- You know that
today is Saturday - said the lady -.

Go and eat.

- With pleasure. Osorio memories.

- And bring you to this girl so very cute.

- We'll see, we'll see - said the clerks again baffled -. If today we could not, another day
will be.

- Today has to be tyrannical father .... Until then, eh, precious?

And he took the girl's face and gave him a kiss on each cheek, while saying:

- I've been very lucky to meet you. Needed in my living room and nice cute girls.

And more and more cheerful, without knowing why, he said goodbye and
went on saying: "What devil Pinedo interest will become a saint that
lost Alcántara?

"The walk light red cheeks, her eyes bright as the days of his youth,
came to the gate the large garden surrounding the palace of his father.

The goalkeeper was quick to open and sound hood. He entered the ducal mansion, contrary to custom,
sent a faint smile to two liveried servants, who waited at the top
of the stairs.

Quietly went ahead of them and went straight to the rooms of her
stepmother and who has traveled that road many years.

The Duchess was, at that time, in conference with the medical director of a nursing home poor,
which she had founded a short time ago together with other ladies. When lifted curtain and
see his stepdaughter, smiled sweetly.

- Is that you, Clementine? Come in, my dear, it happens.

This His heart was heavy when he saw his face pale and withered her mother. Abalanzóse and
kissed her warmly.

- Are you OK, Mom? How do you spend the night?

- Perfectly .... I have a face right?

- No! - Was quick to say the lady.

- Yes, yes. I've seen in the mirror.

I feel good .... Only weakness haunts me .... And I'm quite the appetite,
I can not overcome it .... Let's see, Iradier - said facing it again
with the doctor who was standing in front of it - so that you responsible
for monitoring the maids and nurses to save never stop due considerations
to the old ladies is not it?

The young doctor was a nice, intelligent physiognomy.

- Lady Duchess - answered firmly -.

I I will do my part for which the inmates have no reason to complain. However, I must repeat that,
despite our efforts, You may continue to receive some.

You can not understand to what extent are impertinent and malicious
certain women.

For no reason, just for the pleasure of hurting him same to me than
my colleagues, sometimes we are filled with insolence.

The more aware we show them, most are haughty. I taste the broth and chocolate every day and
I have found so far what this woman has told. The hours are always fixed. Never I've seen any
delay in food.

Try to find and convince you that whoever has reason to complain, are the poor servants who rudely treated
the inmates ....

The doctor had been praising as he uttered these words with an accent of sincerity. The Duchess
smiled sweetly.

- I believe, I believe, Iradier .... The older we tend to be very intrusive ....

- Oh, ma'am, that's according! ...

- Generally we are .... But this impertinence, and is itself a disease
and should excite compassion in those who do not suffer from it.

You do not need recommendations, because has a very charitable heart.

Those who do not have it so good besought you, my name, poor things gently with inmates.

- It will, madam, will - said the doctor, healed by the singular sweetness of the founder -. On Thursday,
the wait for you right?

- I do not know if it will fatigue.

- Yes, yes, I guarantee it.

Realizing that it was already over, the boy cut the conference warmly shaking and respect that shone
through her eyes, the hand of the Duchess, and bowing ceremoniously Clementina.

Then it came out, this one, who had been watching with suppressed excitement the broken face
his stepmother, moved by the kindness that breathed all his words
rose from seat and went to kneel before her.

Took possession of its stark white hands and kissed with warm affection transport. This woman
is so arrogant with everybody, I felt a special pleasure, like that
of the mystics, in kowtow to her stepmother.

The voice This stirred a weak magic spell sparks of kindness and tenderness that burned in
your heart and lent them for a moment the appearance of fire.

Ms Carmen gently removed hat, put him in a chair next door and bent to kiss her lovingly on the
forehead.

- Just four days ago have not come to me, rascal.

- Yesterday I could not, Mom. I spent most of the day arranging my bills, making numbers. Oh,
how horrible numbers!

- And why are you doing? Is not there your husband?

- Well, precisely for fear of my husband's doing. Do not you know that has become a miserable,
a miser, just as his brother?

Ms Carmen knew that businesses were not going very well Osorio, who had recently experienced heavy losses
on the stock, but did not dare say anything to her daughter.

- Poor child! Taking care of these things when you're born to shine only as a star of the salons!

-
It does not take more than that to be quite nasty, hateful! If things could done twice!

Suddenly, the expression of tenderness had disappeared from his eyes,
replacing another grim and fierce.

A deep wrinkle forehead furrowed his statue. And with a hoarse voice began to exhibit complaints,
grievances discover that her husband was daily. Nobody in the world more than his stepmother,
would such confidences, which she did not cause any tears.

Ms Carmen was the one who poured one by one from his tired eyes.

- Child of my soul! I would have given my life to see you happy! How blind we have been, the same
as your father than I, give you the man!

- My father! Other than this! A man who has not ever known to have at home a saint who had to worship
on their knees! The truth is that when I think ....

- Hush, hush: is your father - the Duchess said covering her mouth with his hand -. I'm happy. If
your father has some flaws, I have more still, so that there is no merit in forgiveness, if he forgives
me instead of mine .... Do not talk about your father, talk about yourself .... No know what these
troubles hurt me money, which you are not used. I, if I could, the remedied at once .... But
you know that managing a budget. Which unboxed I have to give account to Antonio, and it is not
easily fooled. A handful of gold, Yes, I can put aside for you, but my savings will not remove
you from Pilanco.

However, I trust that your troubles will not last long ....

Stood by the kind lady, he stood staring into space, sadly, and then, embracing his stepdaughter,
who was still on his knees and put her lips to his ear, he whispered:

- Look, my dear, I shall soon die and I leave everything I have. Half the your father's fortune
is mine, as I said the lawyer for the home.

Clementina felt a vibration in the soul that a psychologist would
be very difficult to define. It was a mixture of grief, amazement,
and perhaps also a little bit of joy. The pain predominated however,
and hugged her mother and kissed her tenderly again and again.

-
What are you saying there? ... Dying! No, I do not want you to die.
You me need to make much more money. Without you I would have been
a very wicked woman .... Temo the day you miss me it is. The only
time I feel a little tenderness in the heart are what happened to
her. It seems, Mom, like you I convey something of that virtue so
great that it is ....

- Enough, enough, flattering - said Ms Carmen
again putting his hand over her mouth -. You will worst you for who
you are. Your heart is good. What makes you look bad once is the pride
the orgullito! Is not it?

- Yes, Mom, yes it's true .... You do not
know what is the pride and the torments that provides who feels as
alive as me. To be constantly thinking that hurt us. See enemies everywhere.
Feeling a look like the blade of a dagger in the heart. Play a word
and give a million rounds in the head to be dizzy and sick. Living
with Heart ulcerated restless soul .... Oh, how many times I envied
the virtuous and humble as you! How happy would I be if not carrying
the sad and suspicious character, this pride that consumes me! ...
And who knows - after a pause he added - who knows would have been
more fortunate in another area! Maybe if it were a poor and I had
married a young modest, hardworking, intelligent, would better my
chances. Forced to help my husband take care of the estate, to think
about the details of the house and the women who work and struggle,
had not got to where I might .... I needed a loving husband, sweet,
a talented man who knew address .... Today, Mom, as I am accustomed
to luxury and the life of society, I would retire to like it, I would
move to a corner happy, back in the field, far from Madrid. I would
take more than a little love and have it you by my side to inspire
good feelings.

The spirit of Clementina, impressed by the childishness
of Serrano Street, for adventure that innocent schoolgirl, was inclined
to the idyllic feelings. Good Ms Carmen heard her and encouraged her
with affectionate smile. The secrets of the beautiful lady lasted
a long time. He remembered his days as a child, when her stepmother
had the declarations of love had been done at the ball last night
and he read the little notes it submitted its worshipers. That return
to her happy past. Tempted Pepe was the talk of Castro and Raymond
and expose the childish emotions which agitated his soul that morning,
but a feeling of respect held her back. The Duchess was so excessively
condescending that played at the limits of stupidity