 

The old man glanced around the group. Then his face changed gradually.

- It's true - he said after a moment's reflection - is really a kind
of quadruped something has animal can not be denied.

And frowned, as in painful meditation on the ignorance and stupidity
of the unpopular Melin.

- Makes a very sad time, right? - Said, engulfed
by the current general feeling .-- Poor The workers will spend little
money and runs this season ... And tomorrow is Christmas.

There was a movement among the attendees by announcing this, but not clearly transpired whether
it was of satisfaction or disgust.

- Yes - continued the old man in the gloomy tone for the last time
involuntarily take - this is ... I got the idea, do you understand?
that maybe would like to come to my house and spend one Christmas Eve.

Now maybe not like ... Maybe not in readiness? - added with nice application, watching the faces
of his listeners.

- Do not say no - Flavio Thomas said, something more lively .-- Maybe.

But what about your wife, old? How's it going?

The old man hesitated.

All Bar Samson knew that marital experiences had not been happy for him.

His first wife, a delicate and beautiful young woman, had suffered the most lively and jealous
suspicions her husband, until one day he invited to his house to all the Bar for his infidelity
is fully tested.

But the arrival of the departure, found the shy, innocent creature quietly engaged in home duties,
and had to withdraw corridos and embarrassed.

The delicate sensitive not easily recovered from the shock of this
extraordinary outrage.

He struggled to regain the composure to give vent to his lover, a
closet that was hiding and escape with him.

To comfort the husband was left abandoned a three- spring.

The current consort of the old man had been his cook, stout woman, brutal character.

Before I could answer, John Dimas explained in a few words that the house was old, and, invoking
the divine power, if he were at home convidaría whom he pleased, even when doing so would endanger
their salvation. Evil spirits, added further fight in vain against it.

All this said with a dry and vigor lost in this translation required.

- Naturally ... sure ... this is - "the old man also pursing his brow
.-- No nothing special.

It's my house, I myself have raised all their logs.

No need to fear it.

Maybe cry a little, as women do, but will be good.

The old trusted, to himself, in the exaltation of liquor and the power of a brave example to hold
in this situation.

Until then, Federico Bullen, Oracle and head of Bar Samson, not spoken. But took his pipe from
his lips and burst:

- Old, and how your child is Juanito?

I figured something was sick the last time I saw him on the road
throwing stones at the Chinese, and that seemed disinterested greatly.

Yesterday came by a troop of them drowned in the river, and I thought Johnny. Oh! How would
throw less! Maybe hindrance if you are sick?

Visibly affected, not only by this pathetic picture of Johnny's deprivation, but also so circumspect
and delicate, the father rushed to assure him that Johnny was better and perhaps a little joke he would
improve somewhat.

Frederick then got up and desperezose saying

- I'm ready.

Show us the path. Underway.

And with a leap and a yelp characteristic precediolos, leaving outside.

Passing

the home grabbed a lighted stick, an action that others repeated heading, following close, rubbing,
and before that Daniel, the puzzled owner the drugstore, knew the
intention of his guests, the room was completely empty.

The night was darker than pitch.

The makeshift torches were extinguished to first gust of wind and only the red coals ranging
in darkness as fireworks dimly lighted fools the narrow path.

This led them by the above Pine Glen, whose entrance was hidden in
the cost of a wide but low primitive hut with a roof made of reeds
and pine bark.

It was the home while the old entrance of the mine where he worked when he did.

Once there, the support, they stopped a delicate time for deference to the host, which came from
the rear of breath.

- Maybe you did well to wait a second here outside while I go and see if everything is current - the old man
said with an indifference that was far from his mind.

The indication was well accepted, the door opened and closed after
the host, and partners, supporting their backs against the wall, sheltering
under the eaves, waited with an attentive ear.

For some moments there was no sound but the dripping of water from the eaves and branches fighting against the wind
that shook, crackling over their heads.

The guests They began to fidget and whisper instructions and suspicions that passed word of mouth.

-
I suspect that to start me and my neck has broken.

- We will put in the tunnel and there you will sandwich, for sure.

-
We have in the ground and will sit on top.

- Probably something is
boiling echárnoslo; apartémonos the door for what might be.

But at this point the latch creaked, the door slowly opened, and a
voice said:

- Come take cover from the rain.

The voice was not the old one or that of his wife.

It was a childish voice, weak ring whose hoarse unnatural that broke,
which only can give vagrancy and alcohol abuse, premature.

Appeared before them the figure of a child, whose face might have been nice, even distinguished
not darken the inside of the evils and not having learned his seal
printed on dirt and neglect.

Her little body was wrapped in a blanket, and just knew that getting out of bed.

- Enter - repeated - and not make noise. The old man is there talking to mom - indicating continued
an adjacent room that seemed to be a kitchen, from which the old man's voice came in Ringtone for
clemency.

- Let go - said the child and addressing Federico grumbling
that he had grabbed Bullen wrapped in the blanket and pretended to
want to take the fireplace.

- Let me, you damned old fool!

Do you hear?

As well at bay Frederick Bullen, let them fall on the floor, while the men went quietly standing
in the middle of the room and around a long table of rough boards.

Juanito immediately proceeded in with gravity into a closet and pulled out several objects placed on
the table slowly.

- There you have brandy and biscuits, smoked herring and cheese (and
on their way to the table gave a bite to the latter).

And sugar. (He pulled out with a few dirty hand.) There also dried apples in the cupboard,
but I do not collide. Apples swell. Here it all - ended .-- Olvidábame the snuff. Now it without
fear: I ignore the old woman finally said and done, there is nothing I Well, then!

And he retreated to the doorway of a small room, scarcely larger than a closet, separate main
room by a partition and had a small bed in his small dark room.

He paused a moment standing there looking at the company's bare feet
sticking out below the blanket, and fired by a slight movement.

-
Listen Juanito!

Going to bed again? - Federico said.

- Yes, I - answered the questioned
decision.

- Why, what are you, old man?

- I'm good.

- How?

- I
have a fever.

And chilblains. And rheumatism - Juanito said.

And sank beneath the sheets.

After a momentary pause, he said from the darkness:

- And now my heart hurts.

Sucediose awkward silence. The men looked at each other and after the fire.

Despite the appetizing banquet before them, thought it fell again
into despondency Daniel the drugstore, when the plaintive voice of
the old, high incautiously came until the meeting in a sufficiently
clear to be heard.

- In this tea on the right ... It is quite true
... Of course they are.

A crew of drunks and bums! ... and that Frederick Bullen is the worst. Do not have opinion for
coming here, having a sick home and without our provision of any
kind?

... I know what I said ... Bullen, I said, is that you are drunk
or crazy to think such a thing?

... What about Conrad?

How could ocurrírsete turn my house into a field Agramante taking
my sick child?

Is that wanted to come, I say.

Here's what to expect from this rabble the Bar

Homeric laughter
followed this unfortunate event.

At this point, whether it was heard laughing in the kitchen, or the angry old companion had exhausted
all other modes of expressing his contempt and indignation, the fact
was that a back door closed loudly.

All remained in suspense until the reappearance of old, happily ignoring the cause the latest outbreak
of laughter and smiling hypocritically.

- My wife had the idea to spend some time with Mrs. Mac Fadden - said
by way of explanation and casually, to take a seat among the guests.

And, strange to say, it took this incident to alleviate adverse pregnancy
heading began to feel, and their natural audacity recovered with the
return of the host.

Do not try to tell jokes Christmas banquet.

Suffice it to say that the conversation was characterized by intellectual
excitement, the wary respect, the meticulous delicacy rhetorical precision
and the same logical and coherent discourse that distinguish these
manly meetings and in most civilized places where there is the finest
social intercourse.

No one glass broke because you have not, nor needlessly spilled liquor by the ground or on the table,
by the scarcity of that article.

It would almost midnight when the party was interrupted.

- You must
keep quiet - said Fred, raising his hand.

It was the querulous voice of Johnny, from his bedroom immediately.

-
Oh, Father!

The old man rose hurriedly introduced in the sickroom.

Soon reappeared.

- Rheumatism makes him hard - he said - and he needs some friction.

Took from the table the jug of liquor and shook it.

I was completely emptied.

Bullen Federico hojadelata left his cup with a forced laugh.

The others followed suit.

The old man considered the most animated content and said:

- I think there's enough. Wait a moment, back soon.

And he went back into the little room, taking a flannel shirt and old brandy.

As the door was ajar, distinctly heard the following dialogue:

- Tell me, my son, where it hurts most?

- It hurts everything. Ora here and under there now, but is stronger
from here to here.

Run, father Scrub hard.

And the silence seemed to indicate a lively friction. So Johnny said:

- Do you spend a good time out there, father?

- Yes, my son.

- Is it Christmas morning, right?

- Yes, my son. How do you feel now?

- Best, rub a little lower.

What is Christmas? Tell me why is this party?

- Oh, it's a day! ...

Here, apparently overcame the pain that childlike curiosity, since
there was a silent interval during which the old man continued rubbing.

Soon, Johnny continued:

- Mother says that everywhere but here, all things are given each
other for the day.

Says there is a man who called St. Nicholas, see?

But not a target, but a Chinese species, which come down the chimney
the night before Christmas, leaving things to children like myself
who have been careful to leave his boots there.

That ... that's what I wanted to do believe ... Come, father, where are you rubbing? You're just
one kilometer from the site ... Tell me no invented this for us tease
you and me?

... Do not rub there ... Answers.

In the stillness of the night that seemed to hover over the house,
he clearly heard the buzz of the nearby pine trees as wind harps have
been tainted by the wind.

- Come on, do not be like the father, because
soon I'm gonna be good.

What are those men out there?

The old man opened the door and looked absently.

The men were sitting in good company, with a few pieces of silver on table and a thin chamois bag
in her hands.

- They are putting together ... a game.

And get by - Juanito answered and returned to their friction.

- I'd like to hand and make money - Juanito said reflectively, after a short silence.

For all comfort, the old man repeated what was obviously for him eternal chorus is say that
if Johnny would wait until which would give the seam in the mine, would have much money, and
would be very rich.

- Yes - Juanito said - but can not find it.

Moreover, giving him or me to win, is almost same. At the end of the day, it is just luck.
But it is very strange as Christmas, is not right? Why call it Christmas?

Be instinctive deference to the concerns of its guests, whether by
a vague sense of inconsistency, the response of the old one was so
low that it was wedged between the walls Room.

- Yes - said Johnny,
with interest and some declined .-- I have already talked about him
enough, father, no I do, not nearly, as much damage as before.

Now along with the blanket cover me and - muttering added under clothing
- sit beside me, until I fall asleep.

Do you hear?

And he composed to rest, but not before taking a hand off the blanket and grab tightly his father
by the sleeve in order to mock him not in their legitimate demands.

The old man waited patiently for several minutes.

The unusual quiet of the house excited his curiosity and detached by hand without rising, cautiously
opened the door and peered into the room.

With great surprise, he saw dark and empty.

But at that instant a log that was smoking in the home was broken, and in light of its flare
Federico saw Bullen sitting by the muffled tailings.

- Hello!

Federico started, stood up and walked toward him, half staggering.

- Do the companions where they went? - Said the old man.

- Upon return here. Would have come to take a little walk. I am waiting. What are you looking so
intently, man? - Said with forced laughter - are you going to believe I'm drunk?

Having been spared the old man could fancy, it's eyes were moist Federico and his face like a
tomato.

Made himself a little lazy, and returned to the fireplace. Yawned, desperezose, buttoned his
coat, and he laughed:

- The wine is not as abundant as it goes, man.

Do not get up - he went on, when the old made a motion to rid your sleeve Juanito hand .-- Do
not fulfilled. You where you stand there, I'll instantly. They're here.

Knocked softly at the door.

Bullen Federico Abriola, with a wave goodbye to the old and disappeared.

The old man would have continued were it not for the hand that stopped
him strongly inert yet, no be easy to discard it.

It was small, weak and skinny, but perhaps because small weak and emaciated yielded to pressure
and further approaching the chair to the bed, leaned over her head,
surprising him sleep at this attitude.

The room wavered and vanished before his eyes, reappeared, vanished
again, darkened and let him sleep at all.

Meanwhile, Federico Bullen closed the door, and joined his comrades.

- Are you ready? - Conrad said.

- Ready! - Federico said, - what time is it?

- The one - said, - can you? Are almost fifty miles round trip.
- It seems to me - briefly Federico said .-- Is the horse here?

-
Bill and Jaime have it already in the pine forest.

- Well, that saved
a moment.

He turned and walked gingerly back into the house.

Guided
by the dim light of the candle and cushioned running fire, noted that
the door the little room was open and went to her toes.

The old cast
was snoring in his chair, legs outstretched, head back and hat pulled
down over his eyebrows.

Beside him, on a narrow wooden bed, lay wrapped
closely as Juanito mummy in the blanket that covered her all but a
portion of the front and a little hand livid and stretched that struggled
in vain to enter.

Bullen Fred took a step, hesitated and looked over
his shoulder the empty room.

Most profound silence reigned.

With
sudden resolution leaned over the sleeping boy with both hands spreading
his great whiskers.

But at the moment to do so, a mischievous air
blast stalking him, turned in a whirlwind the chimney down, reviving
the live firing home and clarity, from which he fled Federico and
scared.

His companions were already waiting in the pines.

Two of
them were fighting to hold in the darkness a strange warp, which in
Federico as he approached, was outlining her figure. It was the mare.

The
quadruped had not, in fact, pretty picture.

Nothing remarkable offering
from its blunt snout to its rump raised, and from his arched spine,
concealed by the ragged and stiff Machill Mexican Saddle up his thick,
straight and bony legs, there was a single line of grace and noble
aspect that distinguishes your species.

With the white half-blind
eyes, but evil, his lower lip hanging, and his monstrous color, was
unable to arouse the slightest aesthetic sense.

- Well - said Conrad
- careful with the shoes, boys, up! Eye with no descuidarte foremost
in grasping the mane, and looks to grab then the other bracket. Arriba!

Hastily
mounted the rider kicked solipeds battling, they parted with precipitation
viewers and flew in a circle shaking horseshoes, earth to tremble
animal jumps. Finally, the spurs and departed sounded Jovita. Federico,
in darkness, shouted

- Good going!

- When you return do not take
the low road, unless the time is pressing. Do not stop the down the
hill! At six we wait at the ford. Underway. Hop! Adelante!

And sparkled
the stones, the gravel crunched loudly Frederick road and plunged
into darkness.

* * * * * * *

Oh, Muse! sings, the cavalcade of Frederick
Bullen! Oh, Muses, come to my help to sing the chivalrous men, the
sacred company, the deeds, the clay of the louts scoundrels, the ride
terrible and fearful dangers Flower Bar Samson! Ah, my muse! Scornful
you! ... Nothing like this animal and its ragged coceador rider, and
strength is follow me in simple prose.

It was two, barely reached
Rattlesnake-Hill, and by the interval had Jovita gala of all his vices,
and brought out all his skills.

Three times he stumbled. Twice he
raised his snout blunt straight with the reins, and resisting the
brake and the spur, ran madly through the fields and crops.

Twice
they put hands, and fell back, and twice had to Federico agile use
all their wits and good fortune to regain his seat.

And a mile ahead,
at the foot of a long hill, was Rattlesnake-Creek.

Federico knew
there awaited capital test of your ability, if he wanted to reach
the end of their journey. He clenched his teeth, fitted her knees
on the sides of the mare and changed their tactic of defense in a
strong offensive.

Jovita excited and angry, began the descent of
the hill.

The artificial Federico stop pretending to repression manifests,
and lied to cries of fear.

Needless to add that Jovita then began
spiraling career. Nor is it necessary to set here the time spent on
the decline, is inscribed in the annals of Bar Samson.

I'll just
say that after a while, it seemed to Frederick that mud from splashing
-flooded banks of Rattlesnake Creek.

According to the plans of Frederick,
the thrust had acquired was beyond the margin and having it on purpose
to a great leap, were released in the middle of the rushing stream
River.

A few moments of fighting, kicking and swimming, and Frederick
breathed loudly, after winning the opposite bank.

The road from Rattlesnake
Creek to-Red-Mountain was pretty good.

Either because the en-Rattlesnake
Creek had tempered his evil burning, or because the art led Frederick
would have demonstrated the superior wickedness of her rider, Jovita
and not waste their energy surplus in vain whims, and seemed to have
become a serious solemnity.

Once only sews to the hind legs, but
it was by force of habit, another Once trembled, but it was a damn
old to be brought on the road with a monumental basket on her head.

Pits,
mounds of gravel, chunks of fresh emerging planted grass, flew under
its infused legs seemed strange force.

He began to wheeze, once or
twice she coughed slightly, but decreased their strength or speed
of his career.

In the three had spent the Red-Mountain and began
the descent towards the plain.

Ten minutes later, the driver of the
rapid diligence Pioneer was shot and left behind by a "man on a pinto
horse" in the words of the driver.

At half past three Federico rose
in his stirrups and cried out.

The torn clouds shone through the
stars and in front of him, beyond the plain stood two needles, two
flagpoles and a silhouette of black objects staggered.

Fred shook
his spurs and swung his Riata. Jovita rushed, and a moment later entered
the race in Tuttleville, and stopped at the Place de la Fonda Nations.

What
happened that night Tuttleville is not precisely part of the story.

But
not be too verbose I can say that when Jovita had passed into the
possession of sleepy groom, who soon shook him sleep with a pair of
kicks, Federico left with the innkeeper for a ride by the people who
slept silently.

The lights of a few taverns and gambling houses were
still bright, but avoid the temptation stopped before several closed
shops, and therefore repeatedly calling after screaming, managed to
rise from their beds and forcing owners to unlock the doors of their
stores and to expose their wares to the importunate visitors