 

Michael had fully penetrated the soul of the child: that's why I presented this as a impasse.
Indeed, Maximina opened more eyes expressing surprise; demanded that the young man I swear,
and once made the oath, a ray of joy illumined his face.

- But how bad are these girls! - Exclaimed, clasping her hands .-- Do not be afraid that God
the punishment?

Miguel has sought to persuade them to not believe anything that's to say about him, thousand
protests made sincere affection, and managed to get home before dissipating the clouds that veiled
his face. Upon arrival, immediately Maximina despojose blanket and went to the kitchen, where our young
followed. It was an hour very busy for the child: dinner host boys and many preparations required:
the maid was responsible only seasoning of the dishes, Dona Rosalia account of the tobacconist. Maximina
lit dining lamp and put the cloth on the table: Miguel's still with his eyes: she lifted occasionally
his and sent a smile to show him the confidence he had in his words and how happy he had done
with them.

Once set the table, returned to kitchen.

- We need to clean the dishes - she said the maid with the bitter
tone he always used.

- Has he scrubbed V. ya?

- If I had not scrubbed,
how he had to clean?

What a start!

- Do not bother, Rufa - said the girl a bit shortened.

And taking a towel, sat down calmly to dry the dishes. Miguel sat near her.

- I will tell VV. a story - said that taking another cloth for drying dishes and putting Traveling
.-- also a friend of mine from China, many years ago, told me he
had come evening at a village called Cerd칩polis.

As he was inside and was not surprised the name it had, not only
pigs were everywhere, in gardens, streets and even inside houses,
in short, could not take a step without bumping into any of these
animaluchos.

- What smell would be there, my mother! - Maxi said.

-
Atrocious!

I said you could not breathe. It happened that he was taken to the home of one of leaders of
the people, but most of the houses, even of the rich, had no more rooms to the kitchen and bedrooms.
The owner introduced him to their daughters, some girls pretty ugly, with eyes bent and feet very
young ... In short, VV. have already seen some Chinese. They seemed friendly, and my friend
was very pleased with the reception they did. It was not so happy with the mother, wife of our Chinese.
It was an old woman who was next onion chopping the fire and is now Rufa.

Maxi looked up the cook and then turned to Michael with an expression between naive and malicious,
suspecting a joke.

- When my friend went to her asking how health was not answered more that hum! even without looking
up. My friend looked surprised her husband and daughters, as saying, What have I done to this lady
to get me this? But the same him that they, rather than ashamed, looked up to heaven in a gesture
of resignation surprised him even more. They went to dinner, and my friend at dinner and after
she tried to win the sympathies, or at least the benevolence of the woman, lavishing directing
much attention and often the word. All to no avail: China's answer with his usual grunt, or
all over, with a monosyllable that revealed his temper. The husband and daughters were happy
to make the gesture of resignation and pain that every was marveling once more to the traveler.
After spending some time on desktop, he went to rest. When morning rose, the family found very
sad and as appalled. Then asked them why they went forward bad.

- The poor mother! "- Said one of the girls.

- What happened?

Are you sick? - Asked.

- There she V.

- Where? - Said looking all around, without seeing
a trace of China.

- There.

- But where?

- That pig has V. ahead.

-
What! - Said my friend, believing that the Chinese had gone mad.

-
Yes, sir, we knew at home this week could not happen.

You, sir, apparently, do not know what happens in this town ...

The
Chinese then explained that in that town had a disease, unfortunately
very common, cerdofalgia named, and that was the transfiguration of
man into a pig.

Hence the vast number of pigs encountered on the streets.

The first symptom of this disease was bad humor: in the first degree, patients could be cured as
the consumptive, and Indeed, where one was attacked, were used to
return to health thousand kinds of parties and rejoicing, in which
the whole family took part.

Some saved, but most passed the second period, called "silence," because they spoke very little,
yet in this degree except one another. But if unfortunately entered the period of the "grunts"
time was lost thing: after some time, came the transfiguration. His wife was and two months he was
in third grade.

My friend was stunned and realized why when grunting housewife gestures were all resignation.

At
the end of his story Miguel, Maxi made superhuman efforts to contain the laughter that escaped
her mouth, seeing what had piqued that Rufa.

At that time Dona Rosalia came another lady of the same trace.

Miguel left to see them hastily and the dish cloth in her hands, lest they should see him busy
task as unmanly.

After changing a few words, Maxi, without realizing what he did, he handed two plates saying

- No longer are we more than seven.

But the young man, embarrassed and very angry, they are rejected.

- Let V. .. V. Let that.

The girl blushed and cried faintly confused:

- As in the past helped
me!

...

XV

"My dear sister: - Michael wrote Julia - I wonder why I stay so
long in this little town, and suppose, unwisely, I'll spend most of
it in San Sebastian.

Also do some reluctance that I dislike, because they are not good in the mouth or pen from a child
as innocent as you are and hope that you remain. You're wrong on all your hypothesis. Tickets
remain in (and you can start to laugh) because I'm in love my landlady's niece. It's a girl (still
laughing) that bypasses pretty nor graceful, nor has talent, and a good education. I love what
I do not know, perhaps the soul, but not sure. What I can say is that no woman (except you)
as I think so cute, so friendly and so well educated. Has not yet reached ten and six years.
If you saw what is good and humble! Is so convinced of his insignificance, I have done as
Jesus Christ; wanting to be the last, high at first. Has spent two years in a convent Vergara and
when I arrived, I was determined to become a nun: now we went to walk the Monji. This not mean
that there was a good religious Maximina, as it is called in any state and condition of life would
be good, because that God made. I spend my times as listening to a fool, when he tells his
life as a schoolgirl: the nonadas and childishness of companions, who tells me with great warmth,
delight me just as the novel more interesting: I already know all the sisters of the school
as if they had given birth, is a sister St. Onofre, eighteen years old, beautiful, educated,
but very short temper, in the convent all the world feared more than the superior, just imagine
that a girl, because expressed disgust at glass of another, made to eat the leftovers of all the
other on a plate! There is another called Mary Relief of the same age as Maxi, very sweet,
very shy, when girls entangled in class, not having the courage to re침irlas or punish, she
started to mourn. But love my girl was the sister San Sulpicio, an Andalusian beautiful, graceful
and attractive; four girls were madly in love with her, but which bore the palm and reached to
be her favorite after some time, was Maximina, but the sister, who was a apparently little flirty,
sometimes took pleasure in showing great coolness mortify or adopting a continent with her severe,
until seeing his face saddened, she started laughed and gently tugged his ear, calling it silly.
One day he came up to order move to this sister to another convent, secretly left without
saying goodbye. Who Maxi Tells? wondered all schoolgirls. Finally a more talkative and less
well intentioned than the others, it reported sharply, my daughter received a strong blow to
the heart, but tried to hold back, because he was ashamed to burst into tears in front of
her classmates: this effort on itself cost him dearly, because after a while she felt sick and
had to unbutton dress hastily, lest they drown.

Hearing the story of these children is passed scenes of your brother deliciously goofy time, and
has no desire to return to Madrid. Would you believe, dear sister, I find more wisdom in the
words of Maximina courses in colonial systems that we at home gives the Earl of Rivers? Certainly, I'm
lost. Why has my uncle Bernard to say that nothing in life will be
helpful.

Many memories of Mom. Health Staff. A hug that you almost smother your brother

MIGUEL. "

Three days after Julia's reply, which read:

"My dearest brother:
If for my taste would not write you today because I have to give bad
news, but send Mom ... y. .. cartridge in the barrel, fit or not fit.

The news is that we go to Madrid next week, was on Wednesday or Thursday.

For therefore, you know you should get under way soon. Many feel that tear happiness you feel
and say that I do not think. All life has been a crook beach and do not lease the Tizonazo you
carry in the other world. That poor girl will be well unfortunate if you trust your little
words of honey, will soon go to the cemetery of the victims, as Teresa, Paquita, etc., etc.
I am ashamed to be your sister, great rascal!

News as we know that Uncle Manolo marries the widow of yore. It was time. The same one or two
need to get new teeth, because they are something Durito.

There you sending a letter by the letter I think of him, I suppose it is giving part of the
wedding.

The body of Staff sends me give you memories. Mom as well. I am not happy but a strong bite in
his ear: you know I am a specialist in that field. Warns when you exit.

JULIA. "

Within this came another letter from D. Manuel Rivera news of his impending marriage. The seductive
former manifested itself in her contrite and eager to reform in terms morals and customs,
and announced in concrete terms that he was determined to undergo general laws that govern
the destiny of humanity and routed to the infinite spoke of the urgent need felt by the man
to have a companion "to help to bear the burden of life, "the sweet and ineffable joys of the
home, the mutual sacrifices.

Finally, he called the Supreme Being and begged his help deign bless "his poor hut."

Miguel, rather than relent as it should be a good laugh reading it: but the moment was sad and
crestfallen to remember that flights should leave within a few days. The truth was that I was
going well and not turn back anything flattering to the bustling life of the court. Moreover,
what feeling so alive experience the poor Maximina! As the general to-day and had made irrevocable
intention to break with it, if While far from being expected to perform,
not to suit him do it in an interview do not listen to their complaints
romantic quail.

In the melancholic and reflective expression on his face Maximina guessed that something sad was
happening.

Then tried to be more cheerful and talkative than usual, in order
to dispel their bad mood: vaguely guessed that rejection would fall
on her, but to no avail, Michael contrary to his custom, responded
to their request seriously.

- What you got? - He said at last timidly
.-- Are you mad at me?

- Why should he be? - Answered, smiling sadly
.-- remorse for something you conscience?

- I do not ... but ...

Michael
was silent a moment, the eyes were perched Maximina tellers with longing
for him.

- I have to give bad news - he said at his best voice softening.

The

child was extremely pale, but not his lips.

- I wrote my sister to go to meet with her mom and Santander, and accompany Madrid.

Maxi went silent, bending his head on his chest.

Then it was our Young watch with some trepidation.

- Do not be the last time we meet, beautiful - affectionately said
.....-- The same will follow wanting in Madrid, and the first chance
I got this, I will come to you a visit.

The girl looked up at him struggling to smile.

- Now that I'm about to leave you - continued the young - is when
I see how has entered my heart ... It seems incredible that in so
little time has come to love you in such an endearing ... Are you
the same thing happens to you?

Do I still want to when you stop me?

Maximina moved several times his head in the affirmative.

Moved by that silence, which showed better than any words that his soul was, the young man took
her hand and led gently on the lips for the first time they met, she did not resistance whatsoever.
More and more overcome with emotion, Michael let his soul overflowing; expressed with lively
and passionate language he loved her and how happy they would one day be joining her; The promised
not to forget a single moment, write often and come to see as he could.

The girl put her hand to her forehead and said in an agitated voice:

-
The head is leaving me in pain ...

At that time Mrs. Rosalie entered
the tobacconist.

- Poor boy - he said .-- Must Miguel V. lie a little
to see if it happens .....

- What, you have a headache? - Asked Aunt
.-- The old song ..... Anda seen to lie until lunchtime, and I'll
take the water sedative.

Maxi went to his room and Dona Rosalia was discoursing with Michael,
who just listened.

In the afternoon the girl was brought down to the tobacconist, his
face was a bit broken.

When they were alone, she said shyly

- Do you want a thing I will give you?

- You bet! Because you give me will be my sacred.

Maximina pulled out a silver crucifix hanging from a cord and handed it flushed saying

- This gave me the crucifix, Saint-Sulpice sister on her birthday: I will bring it hung the
breast for three years without ever removing ...

Miguel snatched
it with joy.

- Just going to ask me to hang a medal around his neck.

I'm glad that you've anticipated!

I promise not to leave him day or night ... But I'll beg a favor ... you hang it myself.

Maximina hesitated, finally took back the crucifix, Miguel lowered
his head and Christ was hung on the outside of the vest.

- Today
- he said with sly smile - is necessary to hide it under his shirt.

-
No, that you do it.

The two days that followed this scene elapsed soft and melancholy.

The lovers were much time together, but spoke little.

Maximina efforts to be made visible serene. Miguel, guessing these efforts, I felt your love and
compassion grow.

Took passage on a steamer that was to leave in the afternoon. Maximina morning that day manifested almost
happy. However, being in conversation with him in the room, at least it seemed indicate the
expression on his face, began to sob loudly. Michael stroked and comforted in the best terms
he could.

After they arranged their luggage, the young man went about saying goodbye to the friends during
his stay he had won, and next time to leave and having ear ringing steam whistle, came home
in order to leave the status quo. For more than sought by could not find it everywhere: no
one knew where he had gone, Mrs. Rosalie said that would have gone to church. It is predictable
that this upset Michael, who after sending baggage, went with a heavy heart towards the dock,
but before he came to a around the church. As time hurried, ran to suffocate, he saw no trace of
Maximina around the temple area. He left with his head down and went to steam, which was terribly
beeping awaiting him. When he jumped on board, the captain told rudely fifteen minutes ago who stood
by him, did not cause any effect rebuke. He climbed the bridge, at the time starting the ship,
saw in the balcony of the house of D. Valentine's figure girls. He put his hand hastily to
the captain twin hanging from the railing, and could see his girlfriend crying with a tissue
in hand waving. He took out his pocket and said with emotion. The afternoon was quiet, cloudy sky,
the waters of the small green bay time mirrored confusedly still and the smoke left in the steam
wake. Some other human figures appearing on the balconies and rooftops to hear extended and
furious snoring machine.

While the boat did not leave the narrow mouth of the bay, Miguel did not take her twins the eyes,
directing them to the balcony where Maximina was sad. When a rock is the went down, dropped
his hands in pain: then wiped her cheeks, which were wet.

XVI

Her heart was so full of love, admiration and enthusiasm, which was needed Julita to suffer every
day, for some time, the descriptions that he was pleased to goodness, simplicity and innocence
of the girl's tickets.

Women do not dislike this kind of confidence: So, far outrun, provocations reported with delight
all details more or less childish of those idyllic love, so in keeping
with their age and sex.

Miguel refused to show him the portrait. He feared that he did not
like.

After many requests, and announcing hard "physically worth little," took him out of a portfolio
where he wore.

- Well, there's nothing ugly! - Julita said .-- On the contrary, is a very nice face ...

A Michael is enlarged heart, and drew a smile on his lips Bl.

- Do
you know who looks a little?

... A Clarita Maz칩n ...

Mazon Clarita was a very nice young man.

However, Michael is not compromised with the resemblance and even angry.

- But do love you, Michael! - Julita said grinning .-- I like that ... It was time that the vane
left permanently for a moment ... You know that if I were in the the skin of that girl you had
to pay all together?

- I believe - said the young man laughed.

- Do not rest on our laurels, rogue, because as soon as I can understand her, she I have to advise.

-
It will not if.

- Who knows? I will show you who you are with the face of an angel of the altarpiece.

From Santander, Miguel telegraphed Tickets, giving news of his arrival. So I jumped out of train
in Madrid, put another telegram and wrote the same day. Maxi's reply took six to arrive. The impatience
that our young said in these days did laugh his sister. Contrary to custom, waited at home
the postman, and even watching him behind the glass of the balcony and was going to open the door
himself.

The letter, which was after all, came in a small envelope, written in beautiful English hand, the
letter that was taught in the convent of Vergara and their content was not long or expressive but
breathing modesty and candor: llam치bale in the beginning "appreciable Miguel" and dismissed as
"servant," which made him laugh. In the reply gave him plenty of rattle with that "Servant,"
and the girl in the following letters, changed his farewell: the beginning or the "appreciable," and
it took more work to change it and at last he ventured to call "Dear
Michael."

All the letters she read it to her sister.

Julia began to feel lively sympathy towards that girl even younger
than her.

One day I gave a print of his prayer book, to be expelled from his
party.

Maximina, to acknowledge receipt, there was so moved by this gift,
which Julia could not resist the desire to put a postscript in the
letter from his brother, giving loving expressions.

The girl answered with other flights; were changed after pictures, and finally, after two months,
and were written directly.

By this time the son of Brigadier had cut all its relations with the general's Bembo. Many efforts
that break calligraphic cost: the complaints of the new Ariane came
daily in the mail scattered in five or six sheets of fine print: it
was necessary answer them: Theseus finally got tired and kept philosophically
in his pocket.

Entered and winter, Ariadna returned to Madrid, and not spent fifteen
days without the trumpet hawking scandal affair with the secretary
of the French Embassy.

Miguel does not wondered nothing this event.

One day Julia told him point blank:

- When do you plan to get married,
Miguel?

Blushed, and answered hesitantly and confusing:

- Oh, the marriage!

... You have to think calmly .... It is a very serious business.

And suddenly cut the conversation, talking about something else. Julia was sad and pensive. Asked
this question because he had observed that his brother often both letters a Passages like
before. Began to suspect that it was tired, and trembled for the poor Maximina. Do not give up,
however. After a few days he took in his room by the ear, and said, half joking, half in earnest:

-
Do not loose if you do not tell me now if you think or not to marry.

- But, girl, you thought you or you come with that? - Said the young man, laughing.

- I have interest in Maxi, because he is my friend.

- If you do not know!

- Never mind, I want it now as if he knew.

- Would like to be the sister-niece of a tobacconist? - Said young
with malice.

- Yes! - Julia said getting serious .-- If it is good,
well-educated, why not?

...

- Do not think that's why I stop - Miguel said, turning serious .--
I also thought a lot in recent months about this matter, and finally
I could not confess under married to no good. The Commission has done
twenty-seven independent living I, it is very difficult to accommodate
the order, peace, a series of sacrifices Marriage requires ... And,
frankly, to be a bad married, is not worth a stay single life? ...
On the other hand, if I marry this girl, who is not used treatment
of people or has ever entered in any society, and understand that
I must resign in all my relationships and old friends of my family,
I do not want to step on a room where my wife does not make good role
... In addition, Maximina is too young and too innocent to subdue
a man so perverted like me, and to govern a family ...

This continued
the son of Brigadier in your brain rummaging arguments to hide the
true mobile behavior, they were boredom and vanity, filthy passions
that court life had awakened in his heart again. Julia did not take
his eyes searching for him which concluded by mobs and forced to shut.
After a few moments of silence, it said, shaking his head in pain:

-
Poor Maximina!

And after a long pause, said with energy:

- Well,
look, Miguel, if you must marry her, is a great sin that you are cheating.