 

It was this population of Genoese, divided by a narrow sea siege of the city of Constantinople call of the
ancient Horn of Byzantium, and now of the Turks and Greeks Galata. Retired and sedate us, the
Emperor ordered them in appreciation of your prompt obedience wage pay. The Genoese were killed
in the City about three thousand, and although They then took the worst, was the cause of more
damage in coming to ours, irritated because this was a rival and powerful nation, that mattered
to keep their friendship our weapons in the empire, for in these times was great and feared their power
around East, arbiters of peace and war. Colonies and Prisons had distinguished in Greece Pontus,
in Palestine, powerful armed, possessed great wealth acquired in its industry and value, and
absolutely owned the universal treatment in Europe with forces that kept equal to those of the
greatest kings, and republics. This came to be almost owners of the Empire Greek. At this time
when the Catalans came to Constantinople, and recognizing the forces who brought them to the Genoese
seemed dangerous vicinity of their weapons, and so always maintained between these two nations implacable
hatred and enmity that lasted many ages, until the value of the two went missing, along with
the Empire of the sea, and ceased emulation, for whom often fought with varying fortune.

CHAPTER IX.

Navy passes to the Natoli, and made people in Cape Artacio.

With the danger of dependence between Catalans and Genoese, Andronico said that could happen,
within the City have different and various armed nations, and offended, which with less chance than
last time came, doubtless, to break. Call our Captains and briefly explained the shaft would have
to see their weapons in Asia, protecting their miserable and Christian peoples, oppressed by the Turks,
and removed the opportunity of new independence and disorders. Captains Roger with his people
offered to embark later. But his departure was more tasteful, and the army is satisfied, and
be sure the Navy certain relief and retired, begged General appoint for it a gentleman, or
Captain it was of his nation, that depend on them, fearing that Andronico give this position to
Greeks or Genoese, and was dangerous thing for their safety have the power relief strange people,
who always emulation and skills; occasion of serious quarrels and damage, and more on the relief
of the sea, as subject to the changes of time, can the meanness and malice of a general delay
relief, and find reason to excuse and approval evil deeds, giving the time and imagined dangers
to his lateness. Andronico dutifully to satisfy demand, and thus the position of General of the
Army with the title of Admiral Ferdinand Knight Aones known of blood, and graceful in his person,
and wanted to be together marry a relative of hers, so that the new relationship would give
more authority to his office. The title of Admiral in the empire was not as supreme as it
was between us, that was subject to the Grand Duke, and he received the orders. Command the
Emperor, a famous Romeos Captain Marulli named man of blood and state flags were following Roger
with his people, and Gregory with most of the Alans do the same. Embarked the army in the ships and
galleys of his fleet, and crossing the sea of ??Propontis, the Marmora today, they landed at Cape
Artacio, little more than a hundred miles away from Constantinople, accommodated for the landing-place
of the cavalry. In this place called Artaqui Montaner, Artacio and old, not far from the ruins of the
famous city of Cyzicus.

Roger arrived with the army, and knew that the Turks that same day had wanted to make a wall defense
or half a mile long, placed on the party that the corporal continued to land firm, and left
the fight, but by the strength of the site, the value of which defended it. Estiéndese this
out, since this defense, or wall within a few leagues sea, and in it there are many populations,
and abundant valleys, fertile hills. Was at the time ancient island, but later came to close to
the sands.

With the announcement that Roger was true, that the Turks had undertaken the repair and defense
Cape, which could not be far away, she hasted people to disembark and then sent to recognize
the field of enemies, and within hours they were staying was known as six miles away between
two rivers, with their wives, children and property. At that time Turks have not forgotten the
customs of the SCIT, who is proud to happen, vivian most, and the most warlike in the campaign,
in tents and barracks, moving as the variety of the time, and amenities of the land. He had his greatest
strength in the cavalry ruled by princes and value, not of blood, whom they obeyed more for
pleasure that obligation. Had perpetual war with the neighbors, no military order, in imitation
of Alarab, they now possess Africa. This way of life had, since leaving the banks of the Volga
river, and entered the Asia Minor until the vileness of nations of Asia, and Greece gave them
credit and reputation. Monarchies and nations, so does than men are born, grow and die. Born defended
Greece when Xerxes and when its value broke the power of so many armies, and forced the barbarian
monarch, who withdraw up, and pass the strait of the Hellespont in a small boat, which soon
proud and humbled before vanished bridged. Had its rise, when weapons of Alexander went beyond
the Ganges, and the limits and purposes of the immense nature were not of his ambition. It was
his death, when the arms of the Barbarians, for looseness of their Princes, and little loyalty
to their captains, they put in hard labor.

At this time Andronico occupied the Eastern Empire, the Turks were divided, and there including
some civil wars, but by the advice and authority of Orthogules be quieted, referring to the fate
their claims, which as Reviere Gregoras and Chalchondilas, divided Fortunately the Provinces of seven
Masters, pretensioners all universal government. Dio Caramanico luck to the Mediterranean part
of the province of Phrygia to Cilicia, and Philadelphia, but any author wants, that this was not the
seven captains, and only reigned in Caria: Carcano to the Phrygian, which extends to Smyrna to
Calami and his son Carasi, Lydia to Mysia Bithynia, and other provinces next to Mount Olympus,
fell into the fate of Ottoman, at that age began to be feared, and to raise shortly after
its monarchy conquering and holding the other tyrants of the provinces that we appoint, that
was absolute lord and prince of them all. Patagonia, and other lands that fall to the Euino
Pontus, the children occupied Amurath. In this way they found the our distributed Asia, and the
Turks masters of it, that was great help for our victories being divided forces.

CHAPTER X.

Catalans and Aragonese due to the Turks.

By Roger took notice of how the Turks were close, afraid of losing such a good opportunity
if advised of the arrival of our people were prevented, or withdrawn, along the field, and in
a brief talk he said, as the next day wanted to give on accommodation of enemies, easy to break
by being careless. Propusoles the glory that reached with overcome, and that of the first event
was born of fear, or trust, and that good or bad reputation hung from them. He ordered that
no person's life but to children, because this causes fear among the barbarians, and our soldiers
peleasen without any hope d that losers could be alive. Provisions of the order with which
they had to march, gave order to the talks. Heard him gladly, and that night started from their
seats While he could attack at dawn the Turks. Roger led the vanguard with Marulli with the cavalry,
and had only two banners, in the arms of the Emperor an Andronico, and the other his. I kept the
infantry made a single squadron of it all, ruled Alet CORBA Steward of the military. He had been in
the face alone two flags, against common use of our time, who sit in the middle of the squad
as the strongest place and defended. The flag bore the arms of Don Jaime King of Aragon and the
other those of Fadrique Don King of Sicily, for among the conditions that are part of the Catalans
proposed to the Emperor, was the first, which was always driven by legal guide the name and
coat of arms of Princes, where they arrived because they wanted their weapons, arrived memory
and authority of their kings, and for the weapons of Aragon Lastenia considered invincible.
From where you can meet the great love and reverence that the Catalans and Aragonese had their
kings, they still serve foreign princes, and in such remote provinces, retained memory, and
militated below it: remarkable fidelity, not only known in this case, but at all times. Because
they saw us not forsaken evil Prince and cruel was, and wanted more suffering its force and harshness,
which will supply new master. It was not preferred the second to the eldest. Always follow the
order to the sky, and ordered nature or particular altered by hatred or love, with no little kingdom
where there are no seen these trade-offs and relocations.

Passed at midnight our wall, or repair after dividing the land, and
at dawn were found on the Turks, who as partly safe, and his apparently
far enemies, were without guards, resting in their tents and sleeping
carelessly.

Roger and Marulli closed with the cavalry, getting around the shops and repairs that had weak
with great spirit. Next came the Almugavares with it, giving a bloody and happy principle
to the new war. The Turks, whom the fury and precision of our weapons could not push in sleep,
the clash of arms and voices awoke, and the agitation and fear that such assaults often result
in the attacked, took up arms for their defense, but few, divided and disarmed, that their resistance
was futile and useless against the effort and gallantry of our people, who already occupied
it. The Turks fought with desperation, watching his eyes tear and slay their most expensive clothes,
people who even by the known name. Cumplidísima Alcanzose victory, leaving the field dead Turks
three thousand horse and ten thousand infantry. Those left alive were those acknowledging time
disorder and loss, and that the Catalans were impervious to the blows of his arrows, were put
in safe flight, and that many want to do so afterwards caused them death more quickly, because
they engaged in removing their children and women, left the battle and then perished. The dam
was great, and many captive children. Nicephorus relates, Greek the nation and declared enemy
of ours, the fear and terror caused in the Turks this first pursued with the same words: "As the
Turks were fierce momentum Latinos (so called to the Catalans) its value, its military discipline,
and its lucid and strong arms, amazed and terrified they fled, not only far from the city
of Constantinople, but inside the old limits of his empire. "Our people followed the little
scope time, not having the known world and returned that night after all, for having the recognized
and secure accommodation.

CHAPTER XI.

Withdraw the army in the winter even after Artacio their seats.

They told the Emperor of the success of his victory, sending four
galleys with delicious present to the two Princes, and Michael Andronico,
and on behalf of the soldiers sent Grand Duke to Mary wife of Roger
the most precious and rich prey.

Caused considerable admiration among the Greeks as soon as that signal
victory was achieved, and the people held with praise, free from fear
of the Turks, who insolent with the victories achieved by Greeks on
the other side of the strait threatened the City with the naked cutlass;
but almost all the nobility, which was fair as it should be more grateful
to so great benefit, said the poison of their hearts, to the envy
of the happiness agena gave rise that could be more to conceal.

Andronico's private, and those with higher estimation of his nation, began to fear our might, judging
them by superiors to which they had, and indoors as much power in foreign hands was something
dangerous. These talks and speeches encouraged them Emperor Michael, prompted by a hidden feeling
caused in his mind the victory because he had passed some months before the close with an army
powerful, and fear of the Turks or little security of their own, retired with great loss your
reputation, not through or even a small skirmish with the enemy, and as the Catalans being
so few beat them that he dared not rush through as too many people, this was your shift, and
it a great hatred and desire for our ruin. The Princes feel much that anyone will be equal in value,
and even in such hate whom are ahead, because power and virtue suffers advantaged parties in
Agen subject especially when competition happens in your advantage. If a low and vile emulation
of a Prince to make verses killed Lucan, how much worse off if competing value and fortune?
And no sane Captan must have a company that tries wrong by Prince n if you want to compete with
the Empire.

With the good fortune which had not tried to move on, or following the victory thing that caused
them to lose reputation, and was the occasion to make many excesses in that region, which seriously
angry mood of the natives and Greeks. When they tried to enter the land inwards, began the first
day of November to come so severely winter winds and cold water stopped them. The rivers and their
growing without being able to wade through the barren season full of enemies, the difficult road
which was to march to succor Philadelphia, causes were enough to postpone any business. Roger with
the advice and counsel of Captains decided to winter in Cyzicus, instead accommodated by the strength
of the site, and abundance of victuals, and that next year the output was less embarrassing
than if they had to leave Greece, and embarking and disembarking
of chivalry so often, something of his so upset.

Emperor then gave notice of this resolution and far approvedthe taste, it was what suited
him, having stayed in the army against the enemy, and away from Constantinople and other Greek
towns, with enough complaints and grief, but walked about three months without effect hosted
by Asia, working the land contributions unbearable. Andronico sent diligently to be carried by
sea the food they were not in place, that passed our very mild winter. Roger sent the Grand Duke
with four galleys for his wife Mary. The order which was held in quarters to excuse quarrels between
the soldiers and their guests, was as follows. The Soldiers named six of his hand and land
as many, so that seems common and put an agreement price to the victuals: for more costly
out more than just great descomodidad for soldiers, and giving them a very low price does not
result in significant damage reviews, to more missing trade and regular provision that came
from everywhere abundance. Ordenose Aones Admiral Ferdinand, who were armed to the winter to
the Jio island, safe harbor and neighboring enemy coasts. Jio is the island of the most marked Aegean
Sea, have been born in the Almaste herself, which nature denied to other parties land.

CHAPTER XII.

Ferran Jimenez of sand away from theirs.

The things of land and sea, arranged in the form that, he spent the winter with calm and a lot of
conformity, but then our forces were emaciated with some divisions and civil strife.