 The sun burns
in these regions and encouraged with his shadow manzanillo voluptuous, full of perfumes. Young people
Yankees welcomed it, some through ignorance of its disastrous effects, others because, As
positive men, believed purely legendary reputation of the tree. Not only slept in its shade,
but flowers and ate sucked off prematurely. Came Barranquilla completely poisoned, and while they
managed to save her life, was not without being subject for long tenacissima intermittent fevers.

That
is the enemy against which we must fight every moment of fever.

The rich plant of those coasts, bathed by a blazing sun that makes the endless detritus of promoting
forests, the abundance of tropical fruits, to which the Western man's stomach is not used,
rapid changes in temperature, forced lack of precaution, unquenchable thirst that causes perspiration
than those who live in temperate regions no idea, natural recklessness abroad, are all elements
of probability fall under the terrible ague the banks of the Magdalena. And the saddest thing
is that condoms take all, in that climate, character of unbearable hardship. The fruit, water,
cold drinks, all that can be nice to wretch melts in such an atmosphere, is strictly prohibited
by the friendly advice native.

We arrived in Barranquilla, a small town about twenty thousand souls, to the left of Magdalena
and on one arm or pipe, as there call the lower branches of large
river.

Barranquilla has gained importance recently, since he built the railroad that links it to the
sea route has been forced to enter Colombia for the Atlantic removing thus all trade and transit
to the old colonial Cartagena and Santa Maria. There is nothing special about its construction, for
the most part, almost all of their houses have thatched roofs and offer the form of what we call
our land ranches. But certainly that little progress center on par with Colombia as a whole.
Streets all are of fine sand and thick, swirling lifting on what they call the sea ??breeze and
often takes the proportions of a real storm. As temperature is unbearable. A Frenchman, M.
Andrieux, who has written for Le tour du Monde an accurate description of his travels in Colombia,
says that from the nine morning until five in the afternoon will not be seen on the streets
of Barranquilla, but dogs and some another Frenchman, who persists in maintaining the reputation
of the salamander, which has given in Cairo. It's a bit overblown, but the fact is that you
need an urgent need negligence or child to venture under the sun that heat wave that reverberated
in the white sand and burning, burning eyes, skin and pour roasted lead in the brain. It anxiously
awaiting the breeze, despite the drawbacks of impalpable dust that rises clouds. Everyone's car
when he is forced to leave, and the people is microscopic burrito vehicle on which the rider
is seated with feet flat and cheering on the neck with a small stick whose tip, slightly tapered,
insinuates frequently on the rump of the brave and patient squalid quadruped.

The appearance of the city is similar to European colonies on the African coast, weighing influence
on the spirit unnerving, overwhelming, and the least action necessary a powerful force. Since
I stepped off the coast of Colombia, I understand the anomaly of focusing the national civilization
in the Andean highlands, three hundred leagues the sea.

The European race needs time to acclimate to the banks of the Magdalena and the shores that
touch the Caribbean and the Pacific.

I arrived in Barranquilla on 20 December at half past three in the afternoon, at a time Magdalena
started for high steam Victoria, the best that crosses the river water. Was then I realized
all the evil that I had made the four-day delay of Saint-Simon, without
the permanence in Guaira, which, as past suffering, began to fade
into memory, especially, in the expectation that I reserved the future.

If Saint-Simon had reached Salgar on the day of your itinerary, we would have had time left
to do in Barranquilla all necessary preparations, and embarking on the Victoria, we had got
rid of the bitterness suffered in the Magdalena.

The preparations is a serious matter that requires extreme care. It is certainly impalpable necessary
to provide clothes, plus a good amount of wine and some food, because in the desert along the
river there are no resources of any kind, and finally, it is main, a mat and a mosquito net. Means
mat mat, and the dual purpose of this furniture is first put on the
canvas cot, by its terms of freshness, and then, tucked under the
four sides of the fly, to avoid the emergence of mosquitoes and gnats.

Victoria lost, had to wait until next vapor-mail, I only got to 30; ie, ten days in Barranquilla
useless. I knew then that 24 came a special vapor, but which did terrible conditions for travelers.
It is necessary to explain slightly what is the navigation of the Magdalena River, to realize that
it is essential precautions to undertake it. As I do a geography book and pretend to write
a scientific journey, be my one and only object simply enter my memories
and impressions in these light pages, I shall only say that the Magdalene,
along with the Cauca, are one of four large river systems in South
America, as determined by the different branches of the Andes, the
other three are: the Orinoco and its tributaries, the Amazon and theirs,
and finally the Plata, where they spill the Uruguay and Parana.

All other systems are secondary. The Spanish, to find the two rivers that were born together
and turned away then to irrigate vast and fertile regions and returned to join just before reaching
the sea to deliver its waters confused, I called Martha and Magdalene, in memory of the two Sisters
of the Gospel, only the second name prevailed, while the former retained the beautiful and euphonious
of Cauca, which the Indians had given him. In both the Magdalena is waterway, but if your water
flow is enormous, only in times of heavy rainfall no difficulty. The nature of the movable sand
bed and banks is amazing quickly on the huge logs that creeps into your course, caught by the current
undermined its banks, its extraordinary width at some points, which extend the water in what
is called ditches, without any depth, rarely more than four feet; constant variation in the
direction of the channels, determined by the movement of sands of which I spoke earlier, the
rapid, violent, called jets, where the current reaches up to fourteen and fifteen miles: here, and
only consign the main drawbacks with which it has struggled to establish a regular navigation
of the Magdalena only way to penetrate the interior. Thirty years ago, the river went back through
of champagne, that is, large thatched deck canoes on which the black bream, lying long punches
on pushing with his chest, drove the boat along the shore, amid shouts, insults and obscenities
who dared to work. The trip, this Thus, generally lasting three months, to which the patient
arrived at Honda, with thirty pounds less weight, torn to pieces by mosquitoes, hungry and crippled
by immobility in a position Aztec idol. Zárraga General, one of the oldest old honored to have
known, and Dr. Simon Zárraga father, who has made the earth Argentina his second home, told me in
Caracas in 1826, to be assistant of Bolivar, was sent by Liberator to drive the coast to Bogota
two French knights who came in diplomatic mission nearby. One of them was the son of the famous
Duke of Montebello. When knew it was necessary to go to the champagne, lie at the bottom, in
the same attitude a corpse and stay for two or three months, one of the diplomats began a vigorous
resistance, which could only beat Montebello recalling the duty and necessity. After have made that
trip, every time an old man I respect have taken place in his youth, and not infrequently,
in champagne, I look with awe and reverence with which the young Italian of 1831 should greet
Maroncelli, crossing the street on his wooden leg, or pale Silvio Pellico with the stamp of his
ten years of Spielberg engraved on the front.

Now it will be easy to understand the importance of the choice of steam to be tempted adventure.
You need a shallow draft vessel, not beached, and a lot of strength to overcome jets. The
Victoria had all these conditions, but ... The coming out on 24, was no Antioch unless the boat
heavier, larger and more substantial than in the Nile. Everyone advised us not to take it until
it was learned, and I assured the employer Antioch only mount up the Magdalena for four days,
being transported across their Roberto Calixto passengers, steam microscopic and very fast, which
would allow us to arrive at Honda at the end of normal voyage, that is, eight or nine days.
With these assurances, reinforced by the order that led the Victoria and Honda that he might return
in our search, and encouraged by the advantage of winning the five days I have had to wait
for take the steam of 30, I decided to bravely embarking on Antioch. Jupiter want to miss no doubt,
and I lost it at the time. Only two passengers were encouraged to follow: a Bogotá and the young
Swiss professor who was making his debut in America this strange way.

We must not forget that when I speak of the vapors from Magdalena, I mean a class ships that have
no idea in our country, where navigable rivers are deep. First, no keel, and your background looks
the same as that of the canoes; then have three floors, open to all winds and sustained by
pillars. The first form cover itself and is where all the rigging of the ship: the machine,
the kitchens, crew and especially wood. Above, is the site for passengers, the cabins, but no
one took the ladies, who, to avoid sleeping outdoors next to the male, roasted alive in the
cabins, the dining room, etc.. On the roof of this section, the chamber of the master, with views
in all directions, and up there on the cusp as a watchtower of our border, like a nest in the canopy
of a poplar tree, the hut of boat, where practical, fixed his eyes on the waters, to guess the
depth of your wrinkles, directs the ship and has in its hands the fate of those who go inside.
All this machine moves through a propeller coming out of the known systems of the propeller and
wheels side, the wheels are behind the ship, turning about a fixed axis one meter from the stern:
well, the ship concludes in his back, on a flat wall, perpendicular
to the water where they are loud crash when the pallets powerful waves.

The

Antioch, in addition to the drawbacks mentioned earlier, is to take your wheels on the sides, they
also produce a din that will make them believe browsing a mobile cataract, prevent, by printing
the ship oscillations in the difficult passages, it is sovereign in the ditches, that is, sliding
on the sand. Moreover, half the huge boiler reaches the passenger deck and the dining room is
located just above the burners. Add that the steam load is that there is no toilet on board,
the service is detestable, and there will be a nice idea skiff that slipped by Barranquilla pipe
in search of wide Magdalena.

I must say, in honor of my prophetic heart, as Hamlet would say that the first impression on
me a glimpse of the future was black. But the die was cast and will, calm and persistent,
watched to prevent any weakness. Just got out of the pipe and into the main branch the river, wide,
fast flowing, magnificent, we moored to the shore, to await the final orders agency.

It was there, during those six or seven hours, I realized the need to take key my stomach, and
forget my culinary tastes until further notice. The food served in these vapors is very bad
for a Colombian, but for a foreigner is really unbearable.

First, is served all at once even the soup, that is, a meat dish, usually salt, and when fresh,
hard as the skin of a hippopotamus, a source of lentils or beans, and bananas, boiled, roasted,
fried, sliced ??... See Hotel Neptuno. When everything cooled, the bell is rung at the table, and
then begins the most terrifying struggle for existence those offered by the vast picture of the
animal creation. On the one hand, the imperative, brutal, to eat, the other the stomach that
refuses, pleading, debate, aided by the reflection of the boiler temperature rises to the point
of roasting a bird that dared across the atmosphere. The servants look like something out
of the water, not rinsed, the wheels which are contiguous, making
an infernal noise, which can not hear a word, devouring thirst can
only be appeased with warm water or wine even hotter ... Impossible!

It leaves the company, and when the weakness begins to produce stomach cramps, they go to Brandy,
who cheats at the moment, but that turns to appeal so that time has passed.

They also began studying the curious organization of the boatmen of Magdalena, which serve sailors
in the vapors, hired specifically for each trip.

Most are black or mulatto, but there are also catire (white) with a coppery complexion, shaded
by force that sun, is darker than our gauchos. So they embark, they are divided into two sections,
Samaria and Cartagena, that is, of Santa Marta and Cartagena, not responding originating point each,
but for the same reasons that ships overseas for the sake of domestic service, they separate the crew
on the port side and the starboard. The resistance of these men for the work burden that they imposed,
especially in this climate, thrift incredible, the way they sleep, naked, lying on the deck,
insensitive to the thousands of mosquitoes that cover them, their joy constant, its spontaneity to
work, I caused a growing admiration for each moment. The hardest tasks is the shipment of wood.
No steam coal navigate Magdalena; immense forests along its banks are abundant fuel for thirty
years, and mine is far from exhausted. The firewood is placed on the deserted shore, the ship
is approaching, moored to the shore and taking the number of donkeys that need. The donkey is the
unit of measurement and consists of a column of chips, at the height of a man who has, more
or less seventy pieces of wood of 0.75 centimeters. I noticed that every donkey should cost
a heavy weight, but I explained that exorbitant price where firewood is not worth anything
by the shortage of arms.

Those magnificent land, which sprout in abundance in its midst As the human imagination has dreamed
of the ideal picture of the tropics, could be called, in antithesis to the words of Alfieri,
the floor where the man is born weak and poor. All along the river is not only small and squalid
villages, where people veer in open huts, without further recourse to a banana tree that feeds them,
a gourd, whose fruit, a kind of squash, we provide all equipment necessary for life, and one or two
coconut trees. Children, naked, have a pot belly, custom to eat dirt. Fish is rare, the bathroom
unknown, the ferocious alligators life in short, impossible to understand for a European. The
few whites who have observed on the coast, have a pale color, earthy and seem spectra street.
The Fevers have consumed. The peoples on the river, even the most important Mompox, famous colonial
life, as in the struggles for independence; Magangue, which extend fairs his fame in the distance,
are stationary forever, while the river eats away the land on that are supported. How much is this
wonderful fertility, weather does not permit the development of the human race to be exploited?
As my eyes look with wonder at the dazzling box of that land, the spirit sadly notes that greatness
is nothing but a shroud tropical. Thus, Colombia took refuge in the hills, far, far away from
the sea and Europe, after the steep cliffs that make it difficult to access and there is the
center of civilization. Poetry has bathed in light, at the time of the last geological world, while
the lands washed by the silver appear to have arisen under the impact of the caduceus of Mercury.
There, the plains, the mildness of the climate, the proximity to the sea, the almost immediate
contact with the centers of civilization, here on the shores of death, isolation in the hills.
Bless the chance that was so beneficial to us in the American division, which gave us the regions
where the sunbeam hot coffee and soaking the fibers in the cane fields where wheat robust
and abundant springs. The Andean foothills to the playful and vigorous climbing vine, the hills
with veins of gold and marble meat, and finally, the fertile plains that stretch until the last
point south of the world that man inhabits. Bless this fortune, but proud of our progress is
not blind us to look with deep respect the generous efforts made by our brothers in the North to
reach it, defeating nature, splendid and terrible as a virgin wilderness.

I tend to believe that the name of a donkey as the unit of measure of wood, responded at first
the amount of it that one of these friendly animals could carry. In As for today, no donkey
could move under one of their namesakes.

A vapor anyone in the Magdalena spends forty to fifty donkeys daily wood, the Antioch consumes
twice, but instead goes half less than others. It is therefore very lasts the life of the sailors
aboard the steam insatiable, every two hours closes up the bank is tied tightly to resist
the current that drags and starts wood absorb an incredible greed. When the operation is done
in delicious morning, the poor boatmen jump for joy, but repeated throughout the day with Often in that
atmosphere candescente, under a blazing sun in our regions is difficult form an idea, is a real
martyrdom. A long iron vessel attached to the shore, by way bridge. The sailors, naked from the waist,
with a bag attached to the head, falling on the back like an immense hood, down to earth, are
in the space between the neck, shoulder and left arm, an incredible amount of chips, hold with
a rope tied on the wrist free, and buckling under the weight, laboriously climbing steamed and
shed its load near the stove. Those who feed these are called candlesticks by a curious analogy.

At
times the river has risen and fuel tanks are under water, taking the rowers to work with half the
body submerged. Rare is the occasion when working in dry, which is not interrupt to kill extremely
poisonous snakes hide in firewood. But when it is under water, have no defense, being further
exposed -sting rays ...

Finally released, we set in motion.

Began the arduous journey in a sense complex that kept my spirit in that nervous restlessness
that precedes a consideration in adolescence to a duel in youth, a long-awaited moment in all
ages.

First Instead, a lively curiosity and burning, then the idea that each hour's walk away me three
of the country, and above the tremors of the body by physical tortures glimpse, serious concerns
that responded to my official position, have nothing to intimate view these pages.

So we knew our position and destination, some passengers on points near me let see a frank and
sincere sympathy.