 The memory of her husband had passed between them like a breath
glacial. July was the first to revive.

- And you have not danced in so long?

- No, how could that be? Look, a lady who is in negotiations for divorce!

... I have not been chic to any meetings since you left. I wanted to save some grief for your
absence. One day Tangier in a family party. What horror! ... Miss you, teacher.

Had turned to shake hands and smile.

Paraded before their eyes memories Some months earlier, when he started his love, from five
to seven in the evening, dancing hotels in the Champs Elysees conducting
the indissoluble union of the tango with cup area.

She seemed to pull out of these impulses to memories of a tenacious
obsession which had only forgotten in the first moments of the match.

-
You who know much say: Do you think there will be war?

People talk so much! ... Do not you think everything will eventually be fixed?

Desnoyers supported it with his optimism. Not believe in the possibility of war. Was absurd.

-
So I say. Our times are not savages. I have known Germans, chic people and well educated, who
probably think like us. An old professor who goes home mamma explained yesterday that wars are
no longer possible in this time of breakthrough.

At two months would be just men, unto the three, the world would be no money to continue struggle.
I do not remember how it was, but he explained it palpably, in a
way that gave like to hear.

Mused in silence, trying to coordinate their confused memories, but frightened by the effort this
meant, he added his own:

- Imagine a war. What horror! Social life paralyzed. Meetings would end, costumes, theater. It
is even possible that no trends were invented. All women mourning. "He sees it? ... And Paris
desert ... So nice that I found myself this afternoon when came looking for you! ... No, it can
be. Imagine that next month we go to Vichy: Mom water needs and then to Biarritz. Then go to
a castle of the Loire. And there's our case, my divorce, our marriage, which can be done next
year ... And all this come to prevent it and cut a war!

No, not possible. These are things my brother and others like him, who dream of the danger of Germany.
I'm sure my husband, who only like to engage in serious and annoying things, it is also those
who believe the war next and prepare for it. What nonsense! Tell
me that is nonsense.

I need you tell me.

And reassured by the statements of his mistress, changed the course of the conversation. The possibility
the remarriage mentioned it in his memory recalled the purpose of the journey undertaken by
Desnoyers. They had not had time to write during the short separation.

- Did you get money? With the joy of seeing so many things I forgot ...

He talked about taking the air of a man skilled in business. Brought less than expected. He had
found the country in one of its periodic crises. Still, he managed to gather four hundred
thousand francs. In the portfolio kept a check for that amount.

Later would make further shipments. A master of the field, something relative, looking after
his affairs. Margarita seemed satisfied.

She also adopted an air of serious women, in spite of their frivolity.

-
Money is money - sententiously said - and without it there is no such
insurance.

With your four thousand and what I have can go forward ... I warn you that my husband wants
to give my dowry. So says my brother. But the state of their business, the progress of his
factory, not allow restitution in such a hurry as he wanted to. I pity the poor ... Tan honest
and upright in all things. If it were not so vulgar! ...

Margarita again seemed to repent of these late spontaneous praise that cooled interview. July seemed
annoyed to hear. And again she changed the subject of his talk.

- What about your family? Have you seen ...?

Desnoyers had been in his parents' house before heading to the Chapel
of Atonement.

A illegal entry into the large building on the avenue Victor I. Had risen to the first floor
the stairs, as a supplier. Then he had slipped into the kitchen the
same a soldier lover of one of the maids.

There had come to embrace his mother, poor Dona Luisa, weeping, covering him with kisses frantic,
as if he had thought lost to forever. Then there appeared Luisita, called Chichi, who always
looked nice curiosity, as if to learn all about what a bad brother and adorable away decent
women to the path of virtue and lives doing crazy things. Then a Desnoyers big surprise, because
he saw into the kitchen, an actress with an air of solemn, tragedy
noble mother, his aunt Elena, married to German, living in Berlin
surrounded of countless children.

- Is in Paris a month ago.

Going to spend some time in our castle. It also seems who walks around his eldest son, my cousin
"the wise", to which I have not seen for years.

The interview was cut several times by fear. "The old man is at home, ten care, "her mother said
every time he raised his voice. And his Aunt Elena went to the door with dramatic step, like
a heroine resolved to to stab the tyrant if it passes the threshold
of his camera.

The entire family remained under the rigid authority of Don Marcelo Desnoyers.

- Oh, that old! - Exclaimed Julio, referring to his father -. Live many years, but how weighs
on us all!

His mother, who never tired of behold, he had to hasten the end of the interview, frightened
by certain sounds. "Go away, could surprise, and disgust would be enormous." And he had fled
the family home tears greeted by two ladies and looks Chichi admiring, blushing and pleased at
once to a brother who caused among friends scandal and enthusiasm.

Margarita also spoke of Mr. Desnoyers. A terrible old man, a man to the former, with which would
never come to be understood.

Both fell silent, staring intently. Had already said the most urgent, what interested his future.
But there were other more immediate things on the inside and seemed
to hover in the eyes, shy and hesitant, before escaping in the form
of words.

Did not dare to talk like lovers.

There was a growing around them the number of witnesses. The lady with the dog and the red wig
was passing more often, shortening their round the square to greet them with a knowing smile.
The newspaper reader now had a bank nearby to discuss the possibilities
of war.

The garden turned into a street. The dressmakers, to leave the workroom, and the ladies, back stores,
crossed it to gain ground.

The short street was a shortcut ever more popular, and all pedestrians passing threw a curious
look on Mrs. Smart and his partner, sitting under a vegetation group, looking shrunken and
natural falsely of people who want to hide and pretend at the same time an attitude carefree.

-
What a nuisance! - Cried Margarita -. We are going to be surprised.

A girl stared at her, and she thought she recognized an employee of a famous couturier. Furthermore,
they could cross the garden some of those friends who had an hour
before glimpsed in the crowd that filled the stores nearby.

- Come
on - continued -.

If you see us together! Imagine what you speak ... And now just that people will have forgotten
something.

Desnoyers protested crossly. "Leaving?

... Paris was young to them because of Margarita, who refused to return to the only place where
they would be safe from any surprise. On another ride, in a restaurant, where they were, were at equal
risk of being known.

She only accepted interviews in public places, and at the same time I felt fear of the curious people.
If Margaret wanted to go to his studio, so many sweet memories!

...

--- No, to your house is not - "she said hastily -. I can not forget the last day I was there.

But
Julio insisted, guessing at its steadfast refusal to splitting of an initial hesitation. Where
would be better? Besides, is not going to marry as soon as possible? ...

- I say no - he repeated it -. Who knows if my husband watches me! What complication my divorce
if they surprised us at home!

Now it was he who eulogized the husband, trying to demonstrate that this surveillance was inconsistent
with his character. The engineer had accepted the facts, judging them irreparable and at that
moment thought only of rebuilding their lives.

- No, it's best to separate - she continued -. Tomorrow we'll see. You will look elsewhere more
discreet. Think, you find a solution to everything.

But he wanted an immediate solution. They had left their seats, moving
slowly to the rue des Mathurins.

July spoke with a trembling and persuasive eloquence.

Tomorrow no, now. They had no more than calling a "self", renting a few minutes of running,
and then isolation, the mystery around the sweet passed, intimacy in that study had seen their
best times. Believe that he had not elapsed, they were still in their first interviews.

- No - said her faint accent, looking for a last stand -.

It will also be there your secretary, the Spanish who accompanies you. Shame meet him! ...

July laughed ... Argensola!

Could be an obstacle this comrade he knew all his past? If you were in the house, would come immediately.
More than once he had been forced to abandon the study not to hinder.

His discretion was such that he was present events.

Surely that was out, guessing an upcoming visit could not be more
logical.

I would walk the streets in search of news.

Margarita fell silent, as if to declare due to see her pretexts exhausted. Desnoyers was silent
also readily accepted his silence. They had left the garden, and she looked around anxiously, afraid
of being in the street beside her lover and looking for shelter. Suddenly she saw before her
a red car door opened by the hand of his partner.

- Upload - ordered in July.

And she went hastily to the anxiety of hiding soon. The vehicle was put into up to speed. Margarita
fell immediately next window curtain to his seat. But before the end of the transaction and would turn
his head, felt a mouth eager to stroke his neck.

- No, not here
- he said pleading -.

Let us be serious.

And while he, rebellious to such admonitions, insisted on his passionate advances, the voice of
Margarita rang again on the old hardware crash that threw the car jumping on the pavement.

- Do you really think there will be no war? Do you think we get married? ... Tell me again. Need I calm
down ... I hear it in your mouth.

II

The centaur Madariaga

In 1870 Marcelo Desnoyers was nineteen years. He was born in the outskirts of Paris. Was an only child,
and father, dedicated to building small speculation, kept family in a modest prosperity. The builder
wanted to make his son an architect, and Marcelo preparatory studies began when his father died
suddenly, leaving his business muddled. Within months, he and his mother descended the slope
of the debris, looking forced to renounce their bourgeois comforts like the workers to live.

When
he was fourteen he had to choose a profession, became a carver. This job was a art and was related
to hobbies awakened in Marcelo by his studies necessarily abandoned.

His mother retired to the country seeking the shelter with relatives. He advanced with quickly in
the shop, helping his master all the important work performed in the provinces. The first news
of war with Prussia was surprised in Marseille working in the decoration of a theater.

Marcelo was a foe of the Empire, like all young men of his generation. In addition he was influenced
for older workers, who had participated in the Republic of 48 and kept alive the memory the coup
d'état of December 2. One day he saw on the streets of Marseilles demonstration popular for peace,
which amounted to a protest against the government. Old Republicans in the relentless struggle
with the emperor, fellow of the International which had just organized,
and large numbers of Spanish and Italians who escaped from their countries
by recent upheavals, composed courtship.

A student consumptive hairy and wore the flag, "Peace is what we want; a peace that all men, "chanted
the demonstrators. But on earth, the most noble purposes are seldom heard, for the twist fate has
fun in and divert. Cannebière just entered the friends of peace with his anthem and flag, was the
war that came out to meet them, having to appeal to the fist and stick. The day before had landed
a few battalions of Zouaves from Algeria who came to reinforce the army of the border and these
veterans, accustomed to the existence colonial on unscrupulous abuses, thought it appropriate
to intervene in the demonstration, some with bayonets, others with belts desceñidos. "Long live
the war!" And a rain of lashes and blows fell on the singers. Marcelo
could see the candid student who made appeals for peace with a gravity
priests involved in his standard rolled under the gleeful kick of
the Zouaves. And do not learned more, then hit him several lashes,
a slight gash on his shoulder, and had to run the same as the others.

One
day he first revealed his tenacious character, haughty, irritable
before contradiction, to the point of adopting the most extreme resolutions.
The memory of the beatings enraged him as something called revenge.
"Down with war!" Since he could not protest otherwise, leave their
country. The fight was going to be long, disastrous, as the enemies
Empire. The came in fifth in a few months. Emperor could arrange their
affairs as you see fit. Desnoyers renounced the honor of serving.
He hesitated a little to remember of his mother. But his family did
not abandon the field and he had intended to work much to send money.
Who knows if he expected the wealth across the sea! ... Goodbye, France!

Due
to their savings, a broker offered port paperless boarding on three
ships. One went to Egypt, another to Australia, another to Montevideo
and Buenos Aires, which he saw fit? ... Desnoyers, remembering his
reading, he wanted to see the wind and follow the road that marks
as had been done to various heroes of novels. But one day the wind
blew from the part of the sea, going into France. Also wanted to throw
a coin in high to indicate destination. Finally decided by the ship
to come out before. Only when he was with his meager baggage on the
deck of a steamer sailing next to was interested in knowing their
way: "To the Rio de la Plata ... 