 

Between one and two in the afternoon, under a blazing sun's reflected rays whose leaves cane if
they were polished swords, passengers were cleared in the big house The Tinaja housing.

CHAPTER IV

     
      Most black of slavery is not black.

         

JOSE DE LA LUZ Y CABALLERO

Under more than one farm concept was a superb wit The Tinaja, qualifier was well deserved for
his long and lush fields of sugar cane-honey, for the three hundred or more arms to cultivate,
for his great drove of oxen, and his vast rolling, his steam up twenty-five
horses of force, newly imported from North America, the cost of twenty
and many thousand dollars, excluding the horizontal mill, also new
and there were armed cost half of that sum.

The boiler house or wit was as strong as vast, almost entirely exempt building, whose armor was
made up of pairs logs, supported by heavy sills and these pillars, those pitchforks in the
country, without squaring no more polish and that he could give to zuela Biscayan the carpenter-architect
hired by the farm for such work. Had stunning and rustic air that seemed to claim his destiny.
Under her roof tiles red were entertained the mill, the steam train and develop the Jamaican
sugar, mounted on three ovens or fornallas. Were not at the same level all these equipment: the
boiler was several feet lower, and to move from one department to another had to descend two broad
stone steps, flanking the level of mill and machine steam. This was done so for it to have an
easy drop the juice, which on leaving the running masses by a wooden trough to trough, here called
Mansehra, where something was cleaned and followed the pan or pot
to receive the first boil.

Parallel with this building was another big and more down, shut down by its sides with masonry walls and
a single entrance, facing the boiler mentioned. This was the house for draining and drying of
sugar. In other woodwork were separated, blacksmithing, nursing and the house can be called
maternity rooms overseer, the stockman, carpenter, foreman and master of sugar, who is temporarily
residing also wit. To the engineer, whose office at that time played a young American, had
built a temporary room with cedar boards, near the machine steam only warm place in that ugly old house.
Followed later formed a group, over two hundred thatched cottages or huts, with their pens
and chicken coops attached to the abode of the three hundred slaves, or endowment of wit. The
other houses exempt, namely: those of bagasse, beat the mud to the purification of sugar and other
less important were erected in the space mediator between the boiler
and drain.

The former plant, known as the quintessential "housing" contained in trapezoid parallelogram,
sitting on the gentle slope of a hill, the difference of level was sought to remedy raising
the floor by the front. Was a single body with thick masonry factory hollow red tile roof, wide
porch, square room in the middle, flanked on both sides by two bays of rooms, corridors run by
the interior, rectangular patio in the center, enclosed by a high wall with casement windows,
and a cover on the canvas the fund, which closed with a lock and lock and was used for internal
communication the servants of the house. In the courtyard grew many flowers, orange trees, fig
and vines that did not contribute little to its greenery and the freshness of dark rooms, although
to break the reflection of sunlight in midday points, had made curtains All burlap around
those passages. As cautioned under the porch, to its elevations and breadth, was more exposed to
the ravages of wind and the effects nasty solar reflection in the
vast and desolate batey