 The
hope, the certainty of seeing her again smiled. When, where? I did not. But see her. And he carried
in his soul. I had not cried because I had a soul full of it. In the shore, seeing the boat
appear gray on gray water, he felt a terrible pang heart. While he could see the beaches of
Ouchy, Lausanne Heights, her eyes had not parted with.

And the trip did not remember more than a few quick scenes. The day before the flight, had spent
all night writing. Knew I could not send more than a word of greeting, but had written overnight.
Aboard a painful dream, a nightmare had overwhelmed grave. Constantly heard the roar of waves
crashing against the strong hull, and felt his own labored breathing, saw away the banks, and knew where
I was, where was.

Had gone to Italy, to admire the beautiful scenery, the bright sun, beautiful sky, which had
done to her as he was. He had been in Milan, in order to see his birthplace, high and severe house
like a tower, located in a remote and quiet street, opposite a small church embellished by many
flowers. He had visited the small town of province in which the school had spent his adolescence,
and had then gone to Brianza, the country of roses, where he spent part of his youth, where they
were buried theirs. Happy ramblings had occupied his mind, thinking of his beloved young years in
the naive hope that she had smiled at the radiant dawn of that life beneficial had wept tears
pleasant. But elsewhere expecting stormy tears.

After a long journey, at the end of the beautiful season, went through Nice as usual always go to Paris.
In Nice had lost his sister, his only companion orphaned youth, and before the tomb of that
loved one was ever going to meditate on the terrible mysteries of life and death. That year
he approached the tomb less secure of himself, full of new ideas he had to commit to memory that
face, eager inspirations gathered there. From this beautiful dead had spoken to him one day
that the accompanied Chillon, he had said how tender was his dear, what big part of his being
was locked in the tomb, and she had asked him to continue speaking of the dead, and several
times he repeated his request, he wanted to know the details girl's life, see their pictures,
and words whose secret only she had had expressed the intimate tenderness of brotherly love.

Hastened
to the grave with the keen desire to confuse a single thought tutelary images of dead and
missing, and his eyes felt a daze: funeral on the wall next to the
skeletons of votive garlands had been meeting there one after another,
a large crown dawn looked like a halo.

It was not flowers, but white cloth or silver threads, a skilled hand had folded the white
satin, white lace, the white tulle, appearing with snowy petals and leaves them sparkling.

His confusion at this show lasted one second, during which, thinking that nobody else in the
world he had loved the dead, stupor, ignorance of affection where it came from this gift, he left
perplexed and anxious. But then he realized the speed of a lightning.

Only a being, that being in love could have gone to hang in there that crown, and tears began
flooding her face, unstoppable. Secret benefactor, comforting compassionate denouncing the inspiration
of love that had led up to that stone, in thinking love that made her weave that garland. The
bones of the dead were shaking because when the sympathetic hand placed the white offering. And he,
trembling, too, cried for joy secret, gratitude overflowing of timid hope.

Thus, he lived in the memory at the heart of him to be worshiped. In the moments when wondered what
would have been memories of the absent person, when questioned whether he thought it not for
a moment, he found religion involved in their grave.

And gaze, obscured by tears in the bright crown, he found that his new prodigy dead sister
expressed the sentiments that invaded, and through space to of time thinking about the absent came
to him, through the soul of life deceased spoke, repeating the advice that their ears had heard
again. "Love and live; created and lives, hopes and lives. "

Uniting with the imagination in the same table to two beautiful images, hand-in saw hands, and
radiant meet him. The missing were removed from the grave to the dead the two ghosts living the
same life superhuman intangible.

But through the admiration I felt, that ecstasy comforter, and his faith as comforting, a feeling
of secret anguish oppressed his heart to think that any words ever could have express whichever
of the two creatures was still alive, the momentum of devotion to his person, the need of bowing
to it than they used. Take, on his knees, his hand, kiss the hand that had the virgin tissue crown,
that was all I could do. But that would be enough? Did not drown it in the moment, all ideas
that were stirring in his mind? And for inspiration pure love that had led to the tomb, would answer
with the confession of a demanding love, a love aggressive? Was it not true that at that time wanted
her for himself, all to himself, since he knew it was him in the underworld fraternity? "So
the leak had been useless? What should have been done? ...

The memory of those moments of great anxiety, he did stand up, turned in the direction the lake,
walked, extending his arm as if in search of a bra, as if he were drunk. I remember the sweetness
of the drunk, yes, this substraía to sadness.

But the bloody image reappeared and pressed her heart again. The wicked destiny and destroyed the
only creatures worth living, and so lost him, one after another, his sisters.

- Sister! ... Sister! ...

Such had been for him.

The only two things dear to his heart were these: the love of sister sister's name. All his other
loves were treacherous and poisonous, had not left not a single good memory: nothing but contempt
and disdain he inspired them all: contempt against the perfidious, contempt against itself. At
one time it had boasted of those affairs, had become arrogant with them as if each had been
a fortune. But, conceived in evil, such love had within it the seeds of destruction, none of them
had ceased to make him feel his rotting, all had sickened the soul; but that was only his comeuppance.

And
when they wanted to engage more in the error when emerge within it felt the need long unsatisfied,
of an intimate relationship, when he could no longer live alone,
again to find it, sister.

Go in search of, say out loud that gave him joy, had been his first impulse, but had refused to
obey. The exaltation of her soul was still so violent, and his solitude was such a comfort to
think continuously in it, he wanted to and could be expected. Jealous of himself, almost afraid to belittle
their own feeling researching its details, had lived in a secret happiness whose origin almost
forgot. Like waking from a pleasant dream, as when dormant and unknown excited energies and
increases the sense of life, everything was new virtues.

Finally, one day wrote. Being the sensitive creature and his own sense secret, verbal expressions,
too lively, did not suit. And the writing contained the momentum of the passions, hopes fell
moderated his joy, expressed only gratitude.

She replied. He spoke of his late sister. What other memories have
been in never played in your mind the words fraternal?

"Certainly, I met his sister and his memory is pleasing me. When you told me about it, when you
told me what the precious and rare qualities of his person and his heart I realized that it
embodied the aspiration of my youth, that was the sister I could never find no comfort me in
times of joy and in those of sadness. When you told me the disaster of his death, I felt as
if I had lost the treasure of goodness and beauty. And to know he was buried in the city where
spent a part of my life, I formed the purpose of going to pray before his tomb. Now, I joy fulfilled
the commitment it had made with myself, and I am happy to know my idea that it has been so
nice to you ... "

And she was dead!

The day had died, the joy was gone. The moon spread over the landscape light burial, a tomb,
the walls whitewashed tombstones appeared, the silence and stillness of death were in the water
on earth, in heaven, everything. Were already two the graves in front of which would go to his knees,
or where your hand would be to deposit crowns. But she had not yet been buried. The bloody
body had been all day on the autopsy table, in the hands of the anatomists, and at that time was in
the church.

Candle plant he looked around him to recognize the spot where he was and move the temple was
in the way of Lucerne. With pace and firmer, walked along route of Jurigoz. In the same house
of prayer where they had met the first time, were to have the second
season meeting.

Far from it, his eyes and his thoughts had turned to the sky in search. After the first letter
had tried to write it again, but the words had been held rebels. And his life had been a continual
anxiety. Everywhere he sought. Front of all the beautiful things seemed to see her. Sometimes I felt
a shift in the heart, seeing in a street person who had a distant resemblance to it. But when passing
these illusions his pain was getting worse. The terror of his nights were dreams, during which
he believed having lost and never see her again. One of those dreams are repeated frequently,
was at presence felt your heart beat, his hands trembled, and could not utter a word, and she,
after having waited in vain for his words, he walked away, fading,
leaving still, petrified.

That distressing inability to everything, even dominated awake, kept him from running for her.
When he went to Nice and did not find there was almost a relief. And to see her again at Ouchy
early summer, trembled. With time and distance believed to have been subtracted influence
of his grace, but his presence renewed the miracle: the anxiety and fear, and all unworthy feelings
suddenly gave way when he found him. Could it hide who lived in his favor? ... And, before she
spoke, she had understood. He was not offended by his confession
of love, nor had doubted the existence.

The false modesty, the hypocrisies of sentiment were not known.

"Do I believe you, and I believe him?" Had asked. Were in the mountains, in the Comte forest, beyond
the leafy slopes were drawn and smooth limpid lake, mountains, landscapes, dazzling light. And truly
dazzling were his words: "Truth is like light, not hidden. The memory of you followed me everywhere;
hope to see you again smiled. I knew this time would come. But there are other truths in life.
And as what I have said is really true, so is, and moral truth, that love you and mine are not durable.
Love has to receive satisfaction. In the full happiness die, but after having lived. Preserve
the life of fear I die, is like killing because you have to die. But the love life depends
on a condition: law enforcement. Think of his dead sister. What would have liked you for it, had
he lived? That would have loved a man who loved her. You would not have too thoroughly researched
the man's past would not have disturbed the his early and less worthy passions. That is natural
law, that they want men are more eager joy, more impatient. One man had scorned her past and
would have trembled with joy and pride to his heart closer to the virgin. The two have united forever,
but it would have been satisfied with a tacit commitment would applied social and divine punishment,
because the moral law wants that love is the foundation family: he does not die, or perhaps
transformed. We have known too later. I do not deny that one can love more than once, mainly from
men. For us women, the experiment is too risky. And in general, the tested, the less you believe.
Too long I've lived outside the law but can still be expect to return to them. You will not
believe this now, and your question is sincere, but later I believe with equal sincerity. I
do not get worse than I am, but if others are not the consciousness of my decline, I have, indestructible.
This feeling would dispute the faith life. At the grave of your sister, when you was away, if
not knew what would happen between us, I thought you join a fraternal feeling. Now we see that
even this is forbidden. You should be ashamed of me. If compassion is not were stronger, you
would not get to dominate the temptation to change the nature of ties that bind us, or defeat,
you too would suffer accordingly. All these things are beyond the law, all are designed naturally
to die and hurt ... "

Still not too certain that was in front of a conscience so sure, had tried refute him show that
bright, but she had reached out to the hills far:

"You see those mountains? Some parts are lit, others remain in shadow. But as the sun continues
his career, comes a time when they are lit and the others watch.

The truth is at all like a light does not go without the company of the shadow. If at this
time do you think some mysterious shadows and let conducive wait, wait you time progresses,
and then the harsh light will make you look your deception ... "

But he had not left finish:

"And I'll tell other truths that you do not know or do not want to know. You, who is judged so;
you, you have a look as clairvoyance, is not known for his integrity, for his sincerity, for his
humility, is a creature selected, worthy of reverence? Do not you know what life contaminates
everything? Is there anything in the world that is free of errors? "And if so, do you think
that the difference between short and higher errors matter much? What matters is power the ideal of
good. He once was diverted and then go offline, do not is more worthy of reward than always
follow the right path? There was a time I thought this was the injustice of the Christian faith
and yourself has brought me back to my beliefs. If you have missed, the intentions that led to the
error makes it more worthy of forgiveness than any other. You feel unworthy of forgiveness is what
is expected, wait ... "

"Not here" was his reply. And wept. She did not!

The time had passed without dissipating the shadows: he did not say that his love had become another
man, a man capable of other things: that pride would have disliked such presumption would have
hurt. Without saying anything more, had been living in their pure enchantment. Certainty to
be loved by her showered him with a joy so clear, that in his being there was no other energy
for no other purpose. Hope bloomed in the shadows, secretly. The words expressing not because
she did not need, should, however, remain secretly stored. His vitality was so fragile that
the slightest shock could have resisted.

Delivered to itself, is held naturally, little by little, it fed
on everything and was food of all ...

Roberto candle plant suddenly
stopped, shuddering.

Was in front of San Luis.

The windows of the church, lit by interior, drew on the walls veiled lamps.

Candle plant collapsed at the gate.

The day before he had heard his voice!

The day had opened his heart! The day before she allowed to kiss his hand!

And then ... Dead, killed! And the judge did not believe in crime! And he was alive?

IV

STORY OF A SOUL
Ferpierre judge uncertainty about the drama of Ouchy was increasing.
Results The autopsy did not shed any useful light: the examination
of the wound round, blackened smoking gun, showing that the shot had
been fired from a distance of about feet, and if this confirmed the
hypothesis of suicide, the murder did not preclude that the murderer
could have pulled up close. Neither internal injuries, the path followed
by the projectile, which was on a sloping line from the bottom up,
allowed to form an opinion accurate. In the person of the dead, no
trace of violence, or hands, or wrists, or neck