 Oh
      Rome! In your greatness, your beauty, Fled
    what was firm, and only It remains
    a fugitive and hard. "

We had our horses tied to the sturdy trunks of the orange aforesaid, we set the climb up the
ramp, which led us to the living gazebo, stay truly delicious more reminiscent of an Italian
villa or a Granada carmen that of a monastery hidden in the withdrawals
and diversions of a mountain in Extremadura.

There are four large arches that put the gazebo in direct relation to the rich environment and
vegetation that amenísimo magnificent gorge. Two of them give to the part where we climbed, serving
the one entrance to the ramp, and the other as a balcony, from which touched hand the fruits of
the orange vermilion of the compass, and discovers, through its branches, an elegant angle of
the adjacent church, perfect Gothic style, whose gentle warheads
erect slender reeds and needles, all in a sturdy golden stone for
ever infuse the spirit, in the midst of these abandoned ruins, arrogant
ideas of immortality.

The other two arches overlooking the south, and since they enjoy the peaceful contemplation la Huerta
and the forest of elms and all soft charms of that brief and peaceful horizon. Of that Huerta
climb, as noted, to penetrate through the arches in this room, parietal roses and climbers vines
with its elegant bell, not yet had closed that morning, also two large balconies determined by
both arches have the parapet on the inner face of the mighty or the wall, allowing for the full
width of it to two large beds or wall units that grew Carlos V, and is now also grown carefully.
Geraniums, roses and carnations pitiminí, all flowers, as I said we were in May, saw us in those
two little gardens as gracefully imagined and willing .-- When a little later came the Administrator
and his wife knew it, Madrid purebred aficionadísima, therefore, to pots, was the author of the
miracle that continue to dedicate to Flora the two beds that once cared Carlos de Austria.

I've described two sides of the room, gazebo, well I still have to say, between the arch that
communicates with the ramp and an adjoining, there is a stone bench, two bodies, much wider the bottom
than the top, which was built there to mount his horse Carlos V more
comfortably .....

Indeed, as reported by Fr Prudencio Sandoval in
his History of the Emperor, the horses Yuste it used in caesarean
section had nothing or martial, as derived from a jaquilla rather
small and old mule .-- As I was finishing forces that so often Europe
had traveled on horseback!

But because of this we have come to talk, listen to the same historian describe how as horse riding
last century the hero of heroes, the winner of thousand battles,
the iron man.

Since the jaquilla «....., only took three or four steps when he began
to cry that will go down, fading, and as I was surrounded by his servants,
and then removed, and from then never got in a horse.

"

Consider now how many thoughts will not come to mind when contemplating
this stone bench, terrible monument that proves all the weakness and
rapid obsolescence of that our machine human, so reckless, impetuous
and presumed in the few hours of youth, if by chance lends wings .....--
But fortune continue our description.

The north wall which is only notable for abutting the wall of the church and because one side
of the room-viewing is a pretty little fountain, carved in the shape
and style of which adorn the public parks or the palace gardens.

This source will have about two and a half yards high, and consists
of a round pillar of center of which a stout stem leaves or tree,
which then becomes funny group of children, very well sculpted, all
in a single piece of stone is quite similar to marble; kind of granite.
