 Play well, not only in Korea alcoholic,
but in the St. Vitus dance, which is almost always helpful. Important is to warn The paralysis that
requires the nux vomica, the fact needs to be because a great nervous excitement of the action,
and gangrene in the arsenic must be result of excess inflammation. Here, then, the reason that
can not nux vomica be fully deactivated when the treatment of constipation due to lack rebels
efforts and to the paralysis of the sphincter, when this state is the result of a high irritability
to excess and leads to the sluggishness, inertia.

14. No Asthma .-- The condition is that the least you can do without the nux vomica for treatment.
The drug seems to act on the muscles of respiration concur and also no doubt about pneumogastric, while
arsenic mainly work the latter, on the pulmonary innervation, nerve and convulsive character was
the fact that frequently alternate with these two drugs to cure asthma and essential Most asthmatic
conditions. There are several effective medications for asthma, according to congestive dominating
element, paralytic, inflammatory, nervous, such are the ipecac tartar emetic, the bryony, lobelia,
etc. .....

15. No skin ailments. Chronic irritation of the mucous terns .-- The action of the walnut vomica
on the skin has some sharp, according to it expresses the general state of feverish spasm or seizure,
the erethism blood, gastric cancer, the affection of the liver and nutrition. So there is cold
skin, blue stained the same color, spicy and itching burning in the morning and afternoon,
burning sensations also excoriation, boils by successive eruptions, acne, yellowing or jaundice,
burning sensation at the points excoriated them get swollen and turned on, and giving blood
ulcers, rashes miliary pruritus, or slump quickly. Here, then, that many circumstances that indicate
nux vomica in chronic hepatitis, gastric eruptions, pustular acne, boils that reproduce, etc
.....

It is used also in certain cases of sebaceous secretion in the eyelids, irritation of free edge
of the same and conjunctiva, in persons given to drink in some stomatitis, even with thrush,
and chronic irritation of the lining of the mouth with swelling of the gums and canker sores
frequently, especially if they are very sensitive. Observed in this case some insidious provision
of the stomach or intestines in harmony with this state of the mouth, and burning pains, finally,
that accompany all mucosal irritation nux vomica. It is also effective in anal fissures with
contracture, burning pain, general irritability, in the rectum prolapsus, especially children, in
consequence of the efforts in the expulsion of very tough materials or dysenteric tenesmus.

=
Dose .=-- Nux is indicated for many diseases, it is necessary to
vary the doses of 1 to 10 drops and even more of the dye, until globules
of the thirtieth attenuation, debiéndose use the smallest in the sugetos
more irritable and functional disorders and neuralgic affections and
ESRD.

It also indicates that apart from considerations of age, sex, temperament, way of life, climate,
we have already said to be in harmony with the effects of walnut
vomica, there are others that should be considered in his administration:
nux vomica works best morning, and the effect, if possible, it is
given in the evening, their effects are then softer, particularly
in the dismenorreas ERETES periods in excess, in neuralgic affections,
constipation ..... Administered in the morning in case of this genre
in very irritable, angry and their action often causes aggravation
a multitude of symptoms seen in the morning.

It also avoids the then giving eating in people with stomach cramps, stomach pain, gastric,
neuralgic or venous, and some states congested, because just then develop but the sufferings or
presented. In asthma is administered by the day, and at all times in acute fast, even at the entrance
of pain. We believe it useful, in short, doing, once and for all, the sign also applies to other
drugs, but especially to the bryony, to the camomile, the sulfur ...., that in spite of the weakness
of the dose, it is necessary have the aggravations that can occur if these precautions are
neglected in ornery people live, very irritable, dry fiber and tight.

Aconite, the bryony and arnica are suitable means for calming the exasperated irritability
the nux vomica, and submit a blood character more nervous, or vice-versa, or as which extends to
contractility. Bryony chamomile and irritation that tune nux occurs in the digestive organs,
coffee and alcohol, the brain, the arsenic and the bryony, the respiratory tract, and chamomile
Staphysagria modify the default and irritability, the coca de Levante and arnica, accidents paralyzed.

OPIUM

§
I. - History [14].

This substance is the dried juice of the green heads of the poppy
family somnifera the poppies, Juss .-- In monogínea polyandry, Linn
.-- Opium, in therapeutic work modern, has a chapter of its physiological
effects, but almost only refer to toxins, disruptive, disposers, and
not to the physiological and really special which extend to all appliances
throughout the body by a continuous peaceful purposes, that since
the first impression in the economy rises to the fullness of his action,
chronicity and dyscrasia.

We've listed several times weaker results of these incomplete studies, so we do not insist, allowing
only state that the Opium is one of the drugs less known or more incompletely studied, which
confess every educated man, if you know the strange differences in the views of authors issued
on this product.

Large doses of opium to calm some pain, extinguishes the feeling of
others, and some sometimes relieves insomnia, many studies have materialized
to this, and as pain and insomnia symptoms are common to most diseases,
opium has been used in almost all of them.

Is given in phthisis to relieve cough, in the prodromal period of
fever eruptive, for inducing sleep, and many other acute cases in
which can only be achieved to use the aggravation of discomfort, increased
fever, the erethism and danger.

He has managed successively more or less success, neuralgia, neuro, epilepsy and several other convulsive
affections, in asthma, chorea, delirium tremens, tetanus, dementia, diarrhea, dysentery, uterine
bleeding ..... We should not pass over in silence the unspeakable practice of giving opium
mixed with other drugs in the belief tolerable dose to administer stronger and the enemy of all movement
Espansiva in the eruptive fevers and other diseases listed above.

Physiological effects .-- § II.

Opium is among the drugs that more clearly presents its special effects as from the excitement
of the nervous system and blood, driving excitement to the inertia
of the two systems, to passive congestion, to the insensitivity.

In its Acute action, it enhances the sensitivity, and weaker in the chronicle. The blood is
more oxygenated Scythians in the action and acute, and less on chronic and slow the course of this
fluid contributes to enhance their quality vein, a quality that makes it unfit for normal excitation
organs.

Opium is a narcotic, for if elective work on the brain and nerves
of relation, does it for the mediation of the nodal system which is
addressed first, and only apparently to influence the brain.

The effects of this medicine and specialty its action can be summarized in the following symptoms:

Feeling
of strength and vigor, sleeplessness, chills followed by heat, excess irritability of the muscles
that are under the command of the will, pulse full and frequent, sparks before the eyes, ringing in
the ears, lightheadedness, heaviness of head, joy, great flow of ideas, adventuresome, dry
mouth, excitement of sexual appetite, heat and constriction chest, agility of the members.
These symptoms of excitement are proprietary opium of more or less
duration and increases with the dose, so it shows: concerns in Member,
flushed face or color changes quickly, burning heat and itching all
over the body, hard and fast pulse, drowsiness, peace of mind wandering
or delirium, heat dizziness, congestion in the head and strong beats,
altered vision, heaviness in the stomach and abdomen with heartbeat,
constipation, dysuria, excitation of genito-urinary and pollution
with erections, difficulty in breathing, pressure chest.

These symptoms are the following: indifference, delirium, loss of consciousness, sleep comatose,
ruddy face, burning and a puffy, dry skin and increased the urine or loose stools, sometimes
hot sweat and suppression of escreciones, heaviness of the head with a need to close the eyes, darkening
of the light, difficult word and slow, nausea, vomiting, stomach aches, and impotence ecstasy
love, oppression with anxiety or slow and noisy breathing, swelling of the veins. These same symptoms,
if the doses are large, they become more and more narcotics: general
insensitivity, tremor, shaking, bouts of suffocation, swelling of
the whole body blue, comatose sleep with snoring, eyes open and seizure,
flushed face and swollen, blue and swollen lips, pulse slow and intermittent,
loss of consciousness, relaxation of the muscles of the face and body,
convulsive movements, usually cold, tympanitis, involuntary bowel
movements, eyelids and pendulous lips, tongue and paralysis of the
extremities.

A very small dose to continue in use for a long time, expresses symptoms alteration of the sensitivity
and contractility, the lesion of the digestive forces, increasing
the venous system and the alteration of the blood, as shown by the
following: headache, tenesmus, dizziness and pain in the head punctures,
neuralgia and fast living moving from one point to another, pulling
pain in the limbs, spasmodic jerks, heat burning in abdomen, chest,
the chest region, cramping pains in the extremities, gastralgias,
stomach cramps and the matrix, the disclosures of suffocation, constriction
painful chest, agitation, muscle weakness and large relaxation of
the fiber.

By denying Hahnemann opium property of exciting pain, and without doubt proceeded undergoes him
to dose very weak or very strong, because the ease with which we have produced the symptom
pain already mentioned, the comments we made about two opium-saturated, we raise fears that
other experiments have not addressed their research to this point.

The chronic action of opium has noticeable symptoms: emaciation general, sensitivity excess to
the cold, pale skin, chalky face, swelling of the veins, serous infiltration throughout the
body, itching skin, swelling blue fingers and toes, and especially the big toe, distressing dreams,
moral inconsistency, scary character, weakness of the intellectual faculties of imagination
errors, perturbation of the head, excitability nervous, ringing in the ears, teeth hesitant
and swollen gums that bleed easily, salivation, bitter taste, aversion to food, slow and weak
digestion, gastralgia, easy to vomiting, flatulence, constipation,
persistent, low, dark urine, Pollutions without erection, dry cough
hits.

Opium abusers are weak, their nutritional and excretory movements are slow, ganglionic nerves apparently
no encouragement to the organs of nutrition and fluids, and not actively influence the relationship
nerves. But that aside from this inertia will observe some of the brain and nervous irritability
of the medulla oblongata, you can not deduce that opium exerts an action opposite in the two
lives, organizational and relationship, as want some doctors. This opinion does not support
any founded reason: for diversity phenomena that we indicated and correspond to the two lives may well
depend that the influence of the will in the organs subjected to the same not in harmony with
the force that animates them, and in any case, can explanations for automatic contractions
and the contractility asthenic injury, cerebro-spinal innervation is so weak as the nodal innervation.
Irritability and moral fiber in opium, are purely asthenic and the
same nature as the chamomile.

§ III .-- therapeutic effects.

= A. = Nervous affections .-- fully sanctioned clinical outcomes data on the action of opium have
collected and esponse, and therefore sufficient to limit ourselves to the study of the facts, all theories
abstraction very scholarly at times, but much less simple processes of nature.

Opium is the drug most suitable for combat as sharp and explosive attack activity life produced
by the indignation, but the passive indignation, that is, when the body suffer the horror without
the moral react, not the indignation aroused anger affective or feeling as required by aconite.
Opium sobreescita fiber to plunge in inertia and insensitivity, the
indignation produce the same effects, sometimes dominate the last
to the point of being the only one that can be seen, as when terror
seems paralyzed, which produces involuntary stool or urine, which
tends to abortion that suppresses the lochia, the rules.

Here there is no original effect, or secondary, but as just a simple and progressive effect
of the tension to inertia by the same action. By final fatigue that characterizes its action,
corresponds exactly to opium congestion produced by the concentration of fright or fear in the various
organs, impeding Thus the development of a febrile reaction often terrible, and where necessary
use, without forgetting the aconite or arnica for the same.

Nocturnal epilepsy, insomnia, migraine, people with senses obtuse plethoric and suffering from
discomfort, burning in the visceral cavities are solely those of opium, and the delirium tremens
of the drunks in the second period, assisted with datura and after
arnica or coffee.

Lead colic is at its best cure opium, the platinum is often useful after him.

We do not want to omit the results indicate opium eSCelente spasms children with difficult breathing
and blood stasis in the capillaries, or when they have just by fits, preceded by screaming,
and chamomile, belladonna and have not been ignacia sufficient. Should be resorted to opium
in certain Neuroses with trembling of the extremities, insomnia, agitation, anxiety in the limbs, constipation,
and in mania or mental alienation characterized by frequent change of heat in the face, by the
alternation of prostration and estilacion, with venous injection of the eyes many times, convulsive
movements, constipation.

In sugetos weakened by long and frequent excite brain with marasmus, dry skin and earthy or yellow,
or null perverted appetite, gastrointestinal weakness, swelling of
the veins lack of secretion, be used with good results Opium neuralgias
of sensory apparatus, whether purely nervous or who have congestive
character, or else Cramp, lancinating, fixed, or that have irregular
course, constant, intermittent.

Opium also combat neuralgia plethoric persons, and the old in that
receptivity medicinal influence is weakened and diminished brain.

Opium in short, is indicated for neuralgia that develop on a background with excitement erethism
of irritability and impressions of the senses, with the condition that they be given to the more
attenuated and small doses. If the ancient medical practice does not confirm this data, and
if practical modern opium despise this property is because the massive
dosage is almost the same in all cases, and why not vary the dose.

This medicine is generally suitable to raise awareness in people refractory to drug action, even
in acute disease, although these only correspond to insensitivity due to the state of fullness
or of cerebral congestion. Mercury has, such as opium and sulfur, the privilege of exciting vitality,
but work better in opium insensitivity, and the other in the inertia, and three in the two states
combined.

Among the cases that demand more precisely the opium is replete asthma or by congestion pulmonary,
and especially chronic constipation without urgency and effort expelled, even children and
pregnant women. In stubborn cases it is necessary to ensure their use and sometimes help their
action with various doses of nux vomica intercurrent, lead, Spanish fly. There are few conditions,
which, as in this constipation is necessary to use more healing means
and with more perseverance, especially when abused enemas and warm
baths.

Not indicate the effects of opium in some cases of strangulated hernia and volvulus, because this
drug is quite inferior to the nux vomica, belladonna to about everything, and even lead, but
we will mention its use in colic which is important essential and
indicated their effectiveness in certain liabilities flows by inertia
and lack of innervation node, such as certain watery diarrhea, recent
or old, salivation, to the mercurial the ptyalism of old, the excess
of urine produced little watery, vaginal discharge of nature and linked
to any special principle of chronic disease.

= B = blood system disorders .-- We have already indicated that the fatigue of the nerve itself
Opium is not without some irritability of fiber, or better yet, it is not without some alteration
of contractility. Fatigue is the trend and the background of all effects Opium is the final result
and direct: it is essential to their action, and this difference that of nux vomica, which is
indirect.

Behold the differential characters of fatigue Opium: clonic spasms, automatic, general prostration,
insensibility, the venous stasis which are not limited to the capillary system, the congestion
extends to the great vessels and to the heart, which paralyzes movement.

However, for the opium all bluish venous stagnation, with no increase heat, and limited to a
given part, albeit chronic, this is the only condition in which the medication is adapted to
the chronic form, these are the dark red and swelling chilblains no itching or pain, gangrene
senile certain period of passive congestion, conditions where the opium assisted rye ergot is undeniably
effective.

But where opium is more frequently and more directly stated, is in passive congestion, venous, no
burning sensation, and developed in any organ by emotion, or other
prompt indignation, sad and unnerving, especially if there spasms
and in postpartum women and children, and convulsive movements with
stagnation capillaries in skin, cold and blue skin, eyes, dilated
pupils, congestion Brain relaxation of forces.

Opium plays Soporous coma, convulsive shock if or jerky movements, agility of the members
with partial and momentary rigidity, bluish or blackish swelling of the face, pallor of the
extremities, lips pendulous small or intermittent pulse, sighing respiration.

Is contraindicated cataleptic state with constricted pupils, without
much change in calorification and coloration of the skin, but is indicated
in the suffocation of newborn with cyanosis, and asphyxia by submersion
with blood stasis in the periphery or apoplexy capillary in the cerebral
apoplexy with numbness and other symptoms described above, particularly
if the congestion is due to the crippling emotion of a great indignation,
or to a custom of the congestion that has to prostration and to the
passive congestion characteristic of this drug.

= C = Conditions febrile fevers whose Prodrom .-- There are remarkable for the cold, the sugilaciones,
The blues of the fingers, and muscle tremors or spasms, and drowsiness, for the detention and prostration
which precedes the development of heat and reaction: these fevers, intermittent or continuous, requiring
the use of opium in small doses decided by the reaction, regulates
and dissipates the state of passive congestion of nerve centers.

Do not hesitate in showing that opium thus transformed from the start and filled with nervous fever
Hazard simple fevers and no gravity, is one of the most satisfying wins the physician, although
the circumstances do not allow those who are uninitiated to appreciate his art their actions and
their results.

Delirium tremor of the muscles, relaxation of the forces, eyes fixed on the mouth typhoid and
nervous putrid opium yields to fatigue dissipates nervous at the
same stasis blood to the brain.

Comatose accesses of fevers are harmful in this case, when starting with the aberration of the
senses, the agitation, the wandering of the imagination or contempt to the more unusual items,
the comma is possession of sugeto little by little, there complete immobility, direct heat,
profuse sweating and hot, the heat wears off, the sweat is cold and death inevitably occurs
in the midst of a full insensibidad.