 

VII

With two guides so complacent and so experts like mine, soon
met the main paths, ravines and gorges, wildlife and flora of the
mountains nearest the contour; I lost the fear I instilled the "hints"
or discovered along the cliffs, being be noted that there is no way
small or large is not a hint continued, and gained the ease and strength
of my legs lacked the same principle to support me on uphill slopes
than down, ie if he was, because it is the absolute truth in the saying
instead, that in this craggy region there is no other plain the room
of Don Celso.

No climbed to great heights, because it shows me much tempting of that caste, nor did my rough
guide to great lengths to encourage me to overcome the inclinations of my complexion relatively
lazy, but why not let meet my little curiosity in the contemplation of beautiful scenery. Finally,
I also met major ports in winter and summer, which send their cattle in the valleys surrounding,
and admired the freshness of those bra침as ("flocks") in tight, thin grass, real big bald in
the middle of dense forests and vegetation powerful. Each These plaques are, in the ports
of summer, a hut, and the other a 'winter' hut to shelter people who herd cattle, and the winter,
building large and robust of lime and stone, barn and stables for a good herd of cattle. Usually,
each winter correspond to the cattles of eight or ten co-owners of "hazas" or contiguous parts
of the brane. Some of these winter were already occupied. At night the cattle eat pinned to the
manger, of "priming" the barn, mowed in August hazas, pasta day outdoors, while time consent,
the care of their owners, who after leaving gathered at dusk down to sleep in the village,
unlike in summer, during which they sleep huddled in the hut, leaving the cabin "acurriada",
ie, the flock gathered around it. The stud are more independent and free, and stood, wild state,
where less we thought.

Pete was very rough, and it happened more than once I go very careless and feel my back a ferocious
roar that made me make two turns in the air. It was the shotgun's gazn치piro: a escopet칩n older and
patched the jokes, he had made one of hers. Pito not tired to tell anyone or taking the slightest
precaution when a part is put throw, ie, as he peered, both in the air than for Matos, who
through the mountains is over, because for a weapon the size of yours and the stuck shrapnel that
had not far and fences: it threw in the face, and above of my shoulder or between the legs
of Chisco, as requested by the situation of things and people, without getting tired of saying
'there goes that', "puuunnn!" It was like the end of world: the mountains tremble, and the
piece was not only dead, but in tatters, because He did not lose
once, or a single grain piece of shrapnel escopet칩n.

And the piece was a hare, a fox, a bobcat, a "Aeschylus" (squirrel), a pheasant or a vermin
of regular size, it is very noticeable that in this and other similar strains are animals he
encounters one going for a walk, even for sites nearest to the people clothing as elsewhere in
the world, is not it, with the domestic cat, loving dog or poultry.

Chisco behaved very differently than his comrade: everything was unchanged in most at least
that its placidity of the continent. If I put a piece shot with a hand me stopped smoothly,
with the other pointed to me, and with an expressive gesture or half word I implied that was
down to me.

If I wandered the coup, as was almost always, he'd he amended, if not anticipated the shotgun
from where less could Chorcos wait, and I noticed in the first case, some malicious pleasure
in the look me directed, while kicking the victim on the floor or down from the sky tumbling
as if to say: "Nah, you how not val Vey a pitu that shotgun, to be as nice as it is?"