 Nothing is left to investigate, clarify, tell and discuss bullfights, since
they started in Spain, perhaps before the foundation of Cadiz and the coming of Hercules the
Phoenicians, who built his columns, I wonder if in Calpe, or Avila or on both hills.

No historical figure who has ever fought for whom we do not speak the count. Until Francisco Pizarro,
conqueror of Peru, and even the most glorious Emperor Charles V, are bullfighters.

The real parties in which more or less splendor bulls have struggled to solemnize some event
pomp and increase public rejoicing, are mentioned in the book of Mr. Count with conscientiousness
and reliable documentary evidence, from which there was in the year , 1144 in León to celebrate
the marriage of Doña Urraca, daughter of King Alfonso VII, until
that was in Seville in 1877 to give away the king D. Alfonso XII.

Demonstrated quite clearly leaves the count that the national spectacle in Spain is the bullfighting.
It also demonstrates with grace, discretion and abundant copy reasons that such runs are not fierce,
or immoral, deserving of censure or bitter few subjects not authorized and several writers
of note have launched against them in times different. Those who have been identified and most
extreme in this century by their disapproval the bulls have been the illustrious Don Gaspar Melchor
de Jovellanos and the ingenious poet and marine Don José Vargas Ponce,
and recently D. Luis Vidart and the Marquis de San Carlos.

Against all Count them bravely battle of Navas, and succeeds, in my opinion, complete victory.

In
any case, so supporters and enemies of bullfighting, they can not less than delighted and instructed
to read the book here realize. All person of good taste and keen to know, if not convinced by
reading this book, have fun insurance and acquire a multitude of curious and strange news, without
ever feeling tired or boredom. This is the highest praise we can give and give with sincerity
and satisfaction the brand new work of the Count of Las Navas, widely known and celebrated as the
literary republic, and other works of scholarship as for his stories
and novels.

Another praise, however, the book also deserves the count, I consign here although I do not,
as the enviable quality that I praise the book serves as a basis
for as I say, and even to much I would say that I remain silent, fearful
of straining readers.

The book of the Count of Las Navas is very suggestive. Who, after having read or read, do not feel
invincible desire to make examination of conscience on the point
capital the book is to declare openly whether conviction or welcomes
the bullfights and to present arguments that support their disapproval
or praise?

Leaving away by the above I wish, I will enter my opinion here, although
no I ask for, intervening in the dispute, with independent discretion
and without prior inclination from anywhere.

"Bullfighting sin grievously against philanthropy or tell yourself against the affection and respect
that every human being should inspire us? This is the first question. The answer is clear, but there
can be no distinction. No distinction is no doubt that a party should be condemned in which
risk their lives for fun a few our neighbors. But when you consider
there are a multitude of other parties in the lives of our fellows
are exposed further, we can not be considered innocent, or if you
want some nocentes bullfighting