 

The day before he returned to the city late, after being feted and admired for several hours
over a hundred thousand women. His speech on the steps of the temple black lightning had heard
this huge crowd, interrupting him with applause. Its success was as loud as the young poet's
rival Golbasto. Had never dreamed with such glory, even in times of adolescence, when newly
entered the studious life, his enthusiasm made him accept the possibility of the most unprecedented
elevations.

Slept badly, as the taste of his success seemed to repel the dream. But when dropped from his
university room, enjoying in advance the congratulations of some teachers and the envy of all
his pride broke triumphantly to reality. He heard the terrified The giant had done the previous
afternoon. Many of those who spoke had attended Momar to the talk show and they were still crowded
with indignation to remember giant shells, some of which had come to splash them or to persons
their families.

The Father of the Masters was in bed after this event, but without known disease. Golbasto, the
great national poet, had retreated vowing revenge on the barbaric
intruder.

The concurrent saw him with a bandage under his crown of laurel,
for he had broken pate falling to the ground under the trip Momar
giant.

- What have you done? - Repeated the professor.

Many who witnessed the incident had forgotten the insolence of the man-mountain for concerned
only with the purpose of other action of his that seemed mysterious. After the giant crowd
was cleared from the halls of Momar, doing all the background to
flee the house to escape the bombardment liquid, raised his stature
and went to a certain instead of the facade of the University, releasing
several shrill whistles with a hurricane.

Doctors scholars who stayed in their rooms trying to hide, believe man-mountain that had gone mad
and wanted to crush them. But before closing windows of their homes could see how it ran on
the roof a man wrapped in veils, how the giant took one of his hands, putting it in a pocket
of his suit, and how fast undertook a march, led by this man unknown to the Gallery Industry,
without waiting for the trumpets sounded again and to meet the squad
escorted him on his walk.

- What will happen now? - Continued the
frightened teacher.

The gossips had been given to understand that the Father of the teachers
suspected if intruder would be helped by the giant Ra-Ra.

- I am
afraid, gentleman, who by this time the police are aware that in fact
the this man was Ra-Ra and protected by you, came into our house to
see her .... Popito You, gentleman, mixing in political affairs of
our country and support in a way so brazen he a propagandist of the
"male" enemy of peace of the state!

Shiver I tremble for you and me.

Gillespie did not need to hear the teacher to realize the gravity of his act. But reborn their
anger to remember the sting of those pygmies, and believed still feel pain her legs. Why not sleep
had left him alone? ...

However, the teacher's desperate gestures served to make him think he was humanity at the mercy
of that pygmy, despicable for him, but which could not feed or attend
to other care she needed him.

Flimnap, thinking she saw in his face a reflection of intense anger,
recommended calm.

- Do not be exalted, gentleman, on the contrary,
you should be prudent and conciliatory.

I this will be fixed eventually. Can you to apologize to the Father
of the Masters.

I explain that everything is due to their ignorance of our language and our customs. What
worries me most is what Ra-Ra, but if no other remedy, and abandon the follow your destiny. Love
is selfish, gentleman. Before you come to this land I had made the greatest sacrifices for
the young. But now is not the same, now you are here, and beyond anything I'm interested in
him.

Professor seemed to have forgotten all the concerns that saddened
him moments before, the jump-lift plate.

He had put his eye to a reduction lens to see Gentleman's face-Mountain, and this made him smile
sweetly.

- I think when the time - said insinuating voice - to show you my soul. While you were living sheltered
from dangers, I did not dare to say what I feel. Shyness possessed me anyone who has spent
his life among books, watching from afar to the people. But after the madness of you, the situation
is different. Perhaps the conflict with our Father in Teachers will finally be fixed, but
right now the situation is bad. You at large risks, and therefore consider it appropriate to
express what I had not dared to say a better chance. Listen well, gentleman, and do not laugh
at me .... I love him a little and I am interested in your happiness .... Why not speak more
clearly? ... I love you, gentleman, and want to spend the rest of my life with you, dedicating
his service at all.

Despite his bad mood for adventure in the University and by the persecution that could to experience
these Pygmies, of whom was a slave, Gillespie could not help but
laugh.

After stifled her laughter to apologize politely

- Do not think, Professor, that I laugh at you. I am very grateful for daring to such insolence. My
laugh is a surprise .... In my country, rarely a woman declares her
love for man.

- Well here is extraordinary - said Flimnap -.

Remember that all women go, and therefore for us to the initiative in matters of love.

- Also - Edwin said - you forget the insurmountable obstacle that nature has established between
the two to create us with such different sizes.

I see you through your lens reduction and thinking I was excited for her size. Contémpleme as I am, and
be convinced that much I loved you would never be a wife of pocket.

- Oh, gentleman! - She interrupted plaintively -. Do not be materialistic in their views, not
display their feelings rude to judge people by their size. Why not can love two souls through their
containers completely different? ... Now that you I know, gentleman, I realize that my whole life
I've been waiting for his arrival. Always My soul felt the pull of
the heights, always dreamed of something vastly larger.

My spirit viewed with indifference the pettiness of our everyday life. I could only love a giant and
the giant has come.

Do not you think that a higher power has given us to each other? ...

The Gentleman-Mountain just answered this question with an ambiguous gesture. But the hot teacher
continued:

- I do not demand that I respond immediately.

I confess that this expression of my feelings is a little violent and you did not expect.
Except for the danger that threatens him, I had refrained from talking about this for a long time. But
in the end, what I should say already said. Think you check your heart, wait for an answer.
What I needed let you know as soon as possible is that I am for you
just a translator and I look forward to participating of his fate,
running their own dangers, if the situation worsens.

Gillespie, holding back laughter again to shake his chest, he replied vaguely the passionate
college. Obey his instructions, study carefully preferences of his soul. But for now, the top
priority was to resolve the situation, which it claims seemed anxious.

- I shall leave you, gentleman - said Flimnap -. Anything with his remaining hand to hold pleasant
conversation, but that is sterile.

I need to know news. Momar has powerful friends and must have done something by this time
against Ra-Ra. In addition, we must fear the Golbasto. Guess from here that his buggy pulled
by three men, horses must be rolling Through the capital since early
morning.

A screening will know what the dreaded poet! ...

Before disappearing for one of the hatches, still fell into the giant Flimnap to say quietly:

- If you come to seek the Ra-Ra, not to strive to defend it, would
be worse for him and for you.

Let abandoned to their fate. We must only think of our future. I always I believed that love
is not selfish not deserve the name of love.

And squinting eyelids caressing expression behind the glass of his spectacles, the teacher disappeared
down the ramp.

Only then will the man-mountain lowered his eyes to look to himself, setting them on his chest.
For the opening of his top pocket ajar saw head Ra-Ra, shrunk the
substance of the shelter.

- Good you did it yesterday! - Giant said
quietly, as if speaking to himself -.

In Actually you're to blame for everything that happened, in your damn idea to leave me alone
go see .... Popito But why not leave you, like me crazy Flimnap calls
.... What the devil is this love that makes us all make great nonsense,
and even gives a grotesque to that poor woman so innocent and kind!

...

Giant eyes were resting on one side of the table club who had made during his trip to the jungle
of the emperors.

The presence of this primitive weapon you he smiled in a way disturbing to the Pygmies.

- I assure you, Ra-Ra - continued - the first people who come looking for you and annoy us at
risk of being killed.

But although this promise was barbaric, very much in Ra-Ra, it protested, poking his head recklessly
over the edge of the pocket.

- I believe it appropriate - said the pygmy - but in some time. Now it is useless. Must expect our
revolution ever closer.

Meanwhile, Flimnap ran the streets of the capital, learning of a series of news very disturbing
to him. A teacher told him that Momar, for certain details that had reported some subordinates, was
already convinced that Ra-Ra was accompanying the giant. The Father of the Masters, accepting
the suggestions of his vanity, thought that men, the enemy of order, had suggested to the man-mountain
discontinue the idea of ??gathering at the precise moment that the
great Golbasto recite his verses, to take away and a big win literature.

In the early hours of the morning had had a conversation with Popito violent, which he denied
having seen Ra-Ra in the top of the palace university. Then the influential characters left his
bed, and was now in the presidency of the Executive Board, recommending
without doubt the persecution of the revolutionary mascula.

Flimnap Shortly after he met a group of news from major newspapers, which were seeking from
hours earlier. They wanted to know your opinion on what happened in the party Father of the
Masters, but he said in an ambiguous way. I would fain have answered roughly to those insatiable
curiosity chasing him at all hours, but the gratitude we forced to be polite. All the newspapers
spoke with praise of his speech at the temple black rays, complaining of having unknown for many
years to so eminent a speaker.

Gave reporters a story that was the worst. Gurdilo announced his desire to make a speech in the Senate
to order the man-mountain barely opened the session. Perhaps he was
already talking scary at this hour.

Flimnap ran the government palace, entering in the wing occupied by the Senate. His love for Gillespie
suggested the boldest decisions. The shy professor, who just days before was incapable of the
slightest initiative, now in its audacity astonished.

Thought to speak to Gurdilo, if it had not yet begun his questioning the government. Not known,
but few days before he was a celebrity, which dealt a lot of newspapers, could well afford the
freedom to make a visit to a colleague of glory.

Within the Senate, to ask for the famous orator, he was convinced that he had arrived late.
Gurdilo was already in the chamber and did not allow visits distracting him while preparing mentally
its awful speeches.

The professor went to one of the grandstands for the public, looking
down between midwives forming the Senate, the fearsome Gurdilo, towards
which all eyes converged.

Flimnap poor never suffered torture equal to that of listening to
this person confusion between the public and unable to answer.

After his victory in the temple of lightning black considered as tribune like the famous healer,
but here was nothing more than a mere listener that could be jailed if he dared to alter his
breaks the stillness of the majestic assembly.

She Senate, with the face yellower than ever, the grim look, bent
nose and a hissing voice, attacked Gillespie for a long time, trying
to match their shots colossus rebound should fall on the high lords
of the Executive Council.

He made the history of all man-mountain who had come to the country in the course of centuries.
The first, according to the testimony of ancient writers, ended up being a traitor to the
Empire Liliput given him hospitality, as it was with those of Blefuscu, which were then enemies.
In addition, returning to his monstrous home, posted as news brought vague by Eulame, a book in
which he ridiculed all Lilliputians.

Giants who arrived later were barbaric and vicious people without college education and a stomach
capacity that had caused great shortages and famines in the nation.

Committed such excesses, which finally had to delete.

And when it was accepted as a prudent measure to kill these intruders, which were presented from
time to time, with the regularity of an epidemic, came the last man-mountain, and Executive
Council, taking off from tradition, he gave life.

Here Gurdilo began to speak ironically of the enormous influence that
few teachers lines and manufacturers had over the current government.

-
Was enough - he said - a poor pedant who teaches at the University
on the useless language of the man-mountain, which can serve anything,
has been sufficient, I repeat, they discovered such a giant pocket-sized
book any of us, with some lines crazy, typical of large animals, so
that all false intellectuals dominate our university organization,
and are paid excessively by the government, they saw a chance to assert
their influence to protect this huge intruder as a partner letters.

And the high lords of the government, before taking office had known nothing reading the journal
every morning, have taken the opportunity to be a false importance of intellectual, obeying
the instructions of his proteges who monopolize University.

"I do not want to talk to the illustrious Senate of expenditure from
which the man-mountain from living among us.

This will be a speech utter another day, when you comprehensive statistical data that I gathered.
I need to know for sure how many cattle eat each day, how many dozens of chickens, and tons
of fish and bread has devoured. Do not insist on this, and soon the Senate will appreciate how the
Executive Council squandered the money of the nation, notwithstanding that the government
holds our sex spirit economy as the greatest advantage over all previous governments.

"Today I need to talk about something else that I consider of great urgency, equivalent to
a scandal intolerable that jeopardizes the state order and the foundations of our society, completely
useless by the wisdom of this great woman who invented the lightning
liberators and the heroism of the brave young men who fought on land
and in the air for victory the True Revolution.

"I myself do not see how the illustrious Senate, the Chamber of Deputies and other bodies not
set national attention on the subversive side that offers this giant from reached. I can not explain
how the newspapers that the slightest peek of our wrongs to publish immediately are blind to
the man-mountain .... I must confess, however, I too have lived in
this inexplicable blindness, and only last night I saw the reality,
thanks to the suggestion of an eminent poet, the greatest of all poets
that exist today, and after it almost useless to tell you his name.

All you guessed it Golbasto .... No wonder they call the blind poets. Golbasto has seen what
none of us had managed to see.

There was a deep silence in the assembly.

The same senators that the public the stands, waiting for the revelation of longing great discovery
of the poet, transmitted by the most fearsome of the speakers.

More than a thousand breasts panted oppressed by emotion, the interest to all was breathing
with difficulty. Nobody take his eyes of the Tribune, which appeared Having grown up suddenly. Finally,
after a long dramatic pause, his voice echoing in the majestic silence.

- Pay special attention to the honorable Senate representing antisocial and subversive show that
witnessed yesterday the neighborhood in our city. The man-mountain is a man, as title suggests
.... And yet, wear pants!

A gasp of all listeners greeted this discovery.

- It's true! ... It's true! - Murmured the senators and the public in awe, as if pass before
his eyes a dazzling lightning.

- Imagine the illustrious Senate - continued Gurdilo - what effect it will have produced such disastrous
yesterday in the village, and especially in the studious youth in schools, see a man dress in
a way that seems to defy morality and to the conveniences. For many years our Street has not
seen anything so indecent.

"It is well known that within our society, some young foolish and
misguided intended to disrupt the social order with the ridiculous
utopia that men can replace to women in the conduct of public affairs.

These fools, enemies of the existing must have enjoyed a lot yesterday when she saw a man with
pants and prudent men virtuosos of our families will have been shocked with much reason to
look to one of sex without the robe and without the veils that correspond
to a virtuous matron.

The suit that man-mountain means "men" in action, which challenges all our laws and customs, to
all our glorious past, to all the deeds and sacrifices of our predecessors.

"If allowed to continue this show subversive, if not remedied, the 'party mascula "insignificant and
ridiculous in the present, will grow into a large force, the men
want to wear pants, and we, women are senators warriors, officials,
in short, all who hold public office or contribute to the smooth running
of the state, all who are head of a family, we have to dress skirts.

The assumption that women could wear skirts once was so bizarre and unheard, that all the respectable
Senate began to laugh, and, encouraged by their hilarity, the occupants of the stands also launched
big laughs.

Even some masculine women, modestly wrapped in their veils, occupied the rostrum destined to
the wives of the senators found it very original Gurdilo paradox, celebrating with subtle laughter.

He
continued his speech with arrogance, secure and that the assembly
would support mass their votes.

For the moment, asked for nothing against the Executive Council. Your responsibility would be
subject another speech.

What he sought, as a patriot, was to cease as soon as possible scandal and danger to morality
meant the giant's mode of dress. The pants was found in women, and it was an attack on the
legacy of conquest True Revolution that this intruder, being a man, they insist on dressing
differently to all of your kind.

- I ask the Senate - he ended up
saying - that take away from the man-mountain that does not appropriate
use and forwarded to the Executive Council a bill for the hearing
tomorrow with modesty and decency required by their sex.

The ovation was long the chief. The president had to blow the horn several times its power table
for silence was restored.

- Agree the Senate - said - that the man-mountain is dressed as befits their sex inferior?

Some senators routinely speak to venerate the voting rules, but the most opposed, considering
it was useless when the opinions were unanimous. He raised a hand, all voted by acclamation to
the urgency of removing pants Man-Mountain.

Flimnap left the platform with the aim disoriented, not knowing whether to be sad indeed or rejoice
over what had just heard. The intervention had made him suspect Gurdilo the first time was to ask
the dead Gillespie. But to convince that the senator only wanted to change his clothes, let
alone for anything to lose existence, almost felt gratitude toward him. It mattered little that
he had called Gurdilo pedantic and will allude to other derogatory phrases, without making
the honor to mention his name. The lovers are capable of the greatest sacrifices in exchange
for your loved one not suffer. For him it was interesting to know that the gentleman was not
going to die.

Even thought provide a more graceful dress according to the directions of the Tribune. Always had
caused him discomfort indefinable pants, just like a woman, against all the conveniences provided
by the customs and glorious history.

By late afternoon he went to the home of Mountain Gentleman.

After leaving the Senate had tried unsuccessfully to talk with President of the Executive Board. His personality
glorious seemed to dissolve and sympathetic curiosity was decreasing by the giant. The people went
back to not knowing. Several journalists went by him without asking his opinion. Those who previously
stopped in the street asking questions about the Man-Mountain almost
trampling ground now with their machines.

The businesswoman who had proposed a triumphal tour throughout the Republic to lecture in
the company of giants turned head to the cross with him.

In the waiting rooms of the head of the Council waited two hours in vain. Employees willfully
ignored him. Momar he saw coming out of the office of president.
To cross with the teacher, who greeted him with a deep bow, the Father
of the Masters had only for him a cold stare and a whisper unintelligible.
Finally, Flimnap, convinced that he had passed its period of glory
and influence, left the government palace.

Near the summit of which
was high in the Gallery of Industry, noted an extraordinary movement.
They came from different avenues battalions of women armed with bows
and spears. Appear saw also a government Guard squad and police detachments
numerous male and bearded, who left the surveillance of streets to
go to this concentration warrior.

His heart is oppressed with the
feeling that this whole war machine was on account of committed by
another giant inconvenience. On the top of the hill floated several
flying machines. Others were closer to full force of their engines,
coming from different points of the compass. A recent alarm had no
doubt about the weapons to all troops garrisoned in the capital