 Fortunately the current government
apply now by far attempted to improve these roads, anxious to give greater impulsion to trade. Have
renewed some old ones, and open a new one hase of twenty leagues, ranging from Apollo to Guanay.

Meanwhile,
personal charges weighing on the Indians of the interior, as required
are to replace the beasts of burden, transporting on their backs and
very long distances all kinds of goods are undoubtedly the cause that
makes it late advancement trade in those regions, crippling the very
desire to reap the fruits nature spontaneously offers everywhere.

Improvements, agricultural, industrial and commercial center of the province is susceptible.

This chapter should be very long, on account of the varied terrain
and the various offshore areas than is in the province, but as I have
to consider, when talking about Moxos the question concerning the
warm plains and in the Yungas section regarding to the forested mountains,
warm and temperate, as well as that of La-Paz with respect to the
lofty plains and mountains bare and sterile, I refer to these various
provinces for indication of the best that are common to Caupolican,
siéndome allowed appreciate them much more success in those places,
since I've picked myself them very lengthy notes on the subject.

I shall therefore, for now, only those significant changes, which
seem to me most special to the province of Caupolican.

Just seen that today, in spite of the abundance of grasses eSCelente making the nature on the
heights of Pelechuco, near Pata, Santa-Cruz de Valle Ameno, Apollo and Aten, in spite of the
profusion offered to the plains of the inland districts, fresh meat and dried meat are among the
items of import trade.

If you promote the breeding of cattle, it is clear that instead of receiving the exterior, he would
become an important branch of trade out: The same would happen with
the herds sheep, which can multiply to supply to both their meat and
wool in abundance.

Equal proportion increasing by horses and mules, was significantly activated exportation of
fruits, contributing to this in the increase of the income the province and to the cessation of the
painful and degrading servitude of the Indians today Abbe inside, as they are forced to go to remote
points by the office of the beasts; freed from such a charge these
poor, then their days would use in working the land, or simply to
harvest the natural productions of the country, without which they
are entitled fair enough fear that forced them to dispose of before.

The vast extent of the inland plains Moxos serious as in the breeding center of any species of cattle,
they would move to fully look after a few years covering thousands of cows and horses. With
the possession of these, you would see the government of Bolivia gorging resourced to his army
resources that are quite distant possess the republics of Chile and Peru.

Moreover, the application to look beautiful dresses animal skins, such as the Marimonos black
and red, would not fail to produce large profits, just as conservation of large-animal skins,
which would become tanning hides the most suitable for car harnesses,
shall we say the same of the skin of the deer, that is so elastic
and soft as chamois leather, which the gloves manufactured in Europe
most esteemed, or more comfortable shoes.

Turtle eggs found on the banks of the Beni, Darien, through preparation used in the banks of the
Orinoco, the great turtle butter, one of the elements of the indigenous cuisine.

Having unparalleled abundance of fish found in the Beni River and its tributaries, points could
be brought about some fishing in all rules, then by keeping salting out her products, so as
to come to create a new and very important branch of exportation, which would not fail to be
estimated, especially in populations High Plains, as the cities of Oruro, La-Paz, etc.

The vegetation is what primarily offers significant improvements.

As soon as industry city ??takeover of the natural products of the interior, they will be filled
the malls of the most beautiful woods for cabinet, thus benefiting vast forests covering the
mountains and plains.

The box, now so scarce and so expensive in Europe, and you can not get large plates, he would
be replaced by those yellow wood, very abundant in those regions, and, besides being so strong
and compact as this, have the advantage of providing sheets of all sizes to recorders.

As to the drainers, not only would bring them trade their exquisite
coconut and rich wood cabinetry, but also its very useful to the oil
industry, as it would take advantage of almond Cavina.

Massive benefits would be obtained to look carefully and supplies various resins, especially copal,
which is the first element of the most beautiful varnish that was made in Europe.

The importance of rubber, used in Europe for the manufacture of various items such as corsets,
garters and braces or suspenders, is increased day to day, being the most important branch of
trade and industry of the inhabitants of Para, which are exclusively
devoted to his great culture, what deterrent is there for the rich
province of Caupolican can not do the same, being also possesses this
plant?

The scale, which for some years has given millions to trade, even
when not exhausted.

Until today only has practiced cut near inhabited areas, and much sludge mind the strategic
sites where they are.

According to reports I could gather, the Indians dedicated to this task are scattered through
the mountains, and so isolated one by one in the woods, cut the precious plant without any
kind of precautions without choosing the station even more appropriate to the case. Parag also devoid
where to put it in storage and covered against the frequent rains, often befalls the completely
ruin their stockpiles, or to see them largely damaged. As obvious as the harvest of the husk
is destined to be one of the safest classes of income State, would
agree that the authorities much rules the way to practice cutting,
dictating to do certain ordinances, whose main object was to put an
end to the destruction that spreads and spreads everywhere, leaving
the trail marked on some of its transit with the total absence of
trees that the hand of nature had planted.

The need to conserve its timber, woodworking and even those who are destined to serve as firewood,
forced to France, long ago, to create the Management Forests, which aims to cut abuses of
all kinds in order to conserve resources for the future. Time is now also to Bolivia, where he still
belongs to the state of half of the land, try to create a vigilant and active body that has
under his charge;

1, People of European trees such as spruce, birch or poplar, etc., Mountains adjacent to La-Paz,
Chuquisaca and Potosi, in order to provide to these great cities of firewood timber and joinery;

2
° prohibit, subject to more stringent penalties, clearing by fire, thus preventing to stop
the clouds gathered strength day by day the lack of moisture, and thus to deprive the fields of
natural irrigation, making them sterile, or let the rain rushing,
taking free passage, start and drag on the high topsoil, which was
followed naked and barren rocks in places where the trees grew more
beautiful;

3 ° Do the Indians pull up instead of cutting the bushes
that provide firewood and coal, so they can take these back to shoot,
having, moreover, that the courts are affected by successive boards,
which prevent the complete destruction is already done feeling on
many points where they grow woody plants

EXTRACTION 4 ° Practicing
the big scale, but according to certain ordinances, and setting primarily
the more favorable season, so while we may enjoy in all the product
of the annual harvest, may always kept this plant the future.

Meanwhile, the most effective measures that I feel obliged to state for conservation regular and
beneficiation of this important branch of the treasury entries are as follows.

1 st Can the government of the republic in Europe to recruit an employee of Forests, intelligent
and versed in the use and application of improvements on the subject,
to entrust the inspection forests overall scale, which moved from
one point to another monitor and direct subordinate employees to continually
placed in each province.

2 ª The junior employee will be responsible for ordering and directing
the EXTRACTION of hulls in each of the parishes of the province.

For the harvest is done with perfection due, it is necessary to start from then on open road leading
to all the valleys where this plant is grown, then dividing the territory into ten sections,
for example, To only benefits a year, thus giving time to the others to return to populated for
when their turn.

3rd Harvest should take place only in the months of June, July and August, when stems are in
a more perfect state of maturity, and when the plant contains Most sap, without the fear that comes
to cutting dry accordingly.

4 th is a need to start in each parish to the operation of the court, drawing primarily a path
of extraction, and building one or many barracks in the center of the section that benefits,
for laborers can be dispersed in these sotechados depositing the daily intake of their tasks,
and make it dry there husks without accidents complete breakdowns or failure.

5 th order not to destroy the bushes to make the cuts will be necessary to choose when most seasoning,
and cut a little above the roots, drawing on billhooks; after taking the precaution, if the strain
does not cast forth suckers, leaving some plants in reserve Here and there, which again planted
and naturally their surroundings, in the course ten years between
each cut of the section.

If the Bolivian government enact measures similar to those taken in France to the regular court
State forest, it is clear that never would see the need to suspend scale crops, for that today
employs to prevent the total destruction of this specific. Every year substantial proceeds
would be collected and better: these products always retain the same
value, in view of lowering of stroke, as when the court left to the
discretion and discretion of the natives is practiced with such disorder,
would seem better, with such abandon, that stockpiles Overcharging
factories and then European markets, causing them to stop hand crops
in general, for some years.

Finally, for trade in the expanse take a convenient scale, so that
can, to be more durable, produce the incalculable advantages of being
capable under good administration, it would be necessary that the
Government institute a severe and well-regulated regime about crops
and trying to establish the Bank as soon as rescue projected which
depends on the regularization of this trade on the stranger.

The second branch of the trade in the province, which also can receive a huge expanse, is undoubtedly
cocoa. It has been found near the interior villages San-Jose, Tumupaza of Isiamas and Cavinas,
forests are populated Cacahual providing very abundant crops annually,
that are ignored by non-indigenous be forced to transporting your
product on their backs.

Suffice to put an end to this state of affairs, to abolish slavery of course the staff, and
established in every parish, trade is private factories, offices will be given to the Indians,
government has a fair value instead of kilos of cacao that they could collect. In addition, families
making certain needs that have not known, it is awaken among these Indians the desire to acquire
the means to the satisfaction of those, striving by this means to
not dispose of these products and of such immense value, which each
year serve only for the gift of the animals of the forest.

Although the province Caupolican could give rise to the culture of coca, without by this and
this, is by the way, never to compete with the provinces of the Yungas and Dolls; although
it would be possible to promote the cultivation of rice, coffee, maize and snuff, and engage in
the working of the gold mines that abound in the mountains, drawing from Speculators including not
a few advantages, but also would be possible to use cotton, applying to the manufacturing industry
to supply its inhabitants dress gender, I think These commercial and industrial classes should
be of secondary order in the province.

For each of the various parts of a territory the maximum yield of their products so that trade has an interest
there, especially prone, it is necessary to the detriment other business classes, without an end
to an amplitude which can produce with less work fat more useful,
especially when no nearby competition.

In the final analysis, say that encouraging exclusively in the province of Caupolican, by a culture
part of the husk in the mountains, another of the cocoa in the plains, two single fruit which
have a useful general interest to the Republic, by the extent they can receive in trade, it
would have given the good and advancement of the other provinces on the high plains, giving more room
for the release of its industry products particular, whether only manufacturing and agriculture.
In this way would also Caupolicanos a free field to engage with encouragement to the regular
and orderly harvest of the husk, and to the abundant and active cocoa.

If possible final quartering products by province, leaving, for example, industry to the high plains
of Bolivia, in the departments of La-Paz, Oruro and Potosí the manufacture
of wool and the breeding of sheep, to the provinces of Moxos babes
and cotton fabrics, to the provinces of the Yungas and growing Dolls
coca, to the temperate valleys of Sicasica of Apupaya, Cochabamba
and Chuquisaca the wheat planting, promotion of silk worms and the
planting of vines to Santa-Cruz de la Sierra, and to Chiquitos Moxos
to raising all kinds of cattle and sugar cane cultivation sugar, and
finally to the scale and Caupolican Cacahual is forcing, so to speak
well, to their respective inhabitants to internal traffic, exportation
or mutual trade, which would do spread everywhere, while the wealth
of the fertile germs civilization.

European states have need for this kind of reciprocal trade, to use every a special productions.
In this regard, and in comparison to the small to big, the highest commercial future issues
may apply to the Republic of Bolivia; presenting it in its various provinces all areas, all
temperaments, and may lead to the promotion of industry produce all that other peoples and countries
of the world.

Meanwhile, the first step to be taken for the advancement and improvement of the province of Caupolican,
and to make her readily acquire the degree of commercial importance to which it is intended, is
the establishment of channels of communication with the provinces
the interior, and also that of women who must mediate between the
various points inhabited.

Is easy to open on every mountain trails not much cost to the transit of mules because the stones
(the most accurate material) are at hand, not so demanding other conservation of these methods
but a slight care. In places where it has established this, over a considerable space of miles,
the abominable system of palisades or log crossing, it could build roads or stone embankments, and to
prevent that drains these to the continuous passage of beasts, to fill with rain water, give a
convex shape and open a small ditch on each side for those spills, as practiced in the construction
of highways across Europe.

These paths indicate not need an excessive width, and therefore does not require great expense,
to more of this, the imposition of a Peage right, nothing burdensome for their reasonableness
bystanders, would cover anticipated expenditures easily from the Government. Engineers in the
field of bridges and roads, currently practicing in the Republic, may moreover, in view of local
resources, take over the most economic means as may be necessary to establish as soon as possible,
with the cooperation and goodwill of the Indians, these vias communication, the only means of
stimulating trade v industry, and civilization turn of the province.

Caupolican in this respect is perhaps the most favored of all the provinces of Bolivia, is crossed
by navigable rivers of the usefulness and importance seems not to do the least attention.
How is it possible to believe, for example, that since ancient times
(more than sixty years) is being done to carry on the shoulders of
the unfortunate Indians, by the excessive firing of fifty or sixty
leagues, to the capital of the province, all the fruits of the inland
towns of Ysiamas of Tumupaza and Saint-Joseph, being so easy to ship
them and pass them up by the Rio-Beni to a point not far from Apollo?

Or as will be credible that, having at his disposal a vehicle of such importance, a river as
mighty as the Beni, no use is made up this, to go from Ysiamas to Cavinas, but petty rafts,
while account more than a century and a half since that Moxos sailing in canoes? It is therefore
very unlikely that such Caupolican backward state in even relatively to the neighboring provinces,
not from not checked lack of business relationships.

And actually going to talk about the province Caupolican, to a Potosino for example, is dealing
with a thing that only you know the name, known as those of China and Turkey, but not for the
world is after him there passed.

With media navigation as simple as you can imagine what will become Cavinas, Ysiamas and Tumupaza
when sailing vessels or steam transport their products, in quantities the more weight you will,
both to near the river Tuyche Apollo, as to a short La-Paz shot by rivers and Bogpi Mocetenes. It
suffices, however, to cease from then the sad servitude of the Indians to engage in the navigation
of boats, but so that The construction of these were comfortable and not expensive, it would need
the government to do intelligent men come from Europe in art, in order that, saving unnecessary
costs, could lead to the natives in the building, the weapons and how to make use of such vessels.
Without this precaution, the inexperience of the people can still
slow, long, the execution of a measure that is of prime necessity
for improving the province.

I could say a word here about the benefits that are reserved to the province with the navigation
of the river Beni to the Amazon, down then up the sea to make his way to Europe, but, as I have
to touch this point when discussing the province Moxos, which is also crossed by the river Beni,
then let the exposition and examination of important issues.

Réstame talk about some other improvements necessary to the welfare
of the inhabitants of Caupolican.

The means to restore your health to the country, cutting off the evil caused by the cold of
South wind so deadly for the creatures of the inland towns, as well as the ravages caused by the
smallpox among the elderly, when the classrooms of Medicine Republic provide such a number of disciples
who can put the state in each province an optional fixed and paid enough so that the question of
the priests Ausilio to preserve the appalling infant mortality, and spread the application of
the vaccine, together with other health condoms.

Missionaries learned and zealous could also, with the support of the Government, take responsible
for the conversion of savages breeds found in the north and north-west of Tumupaza, Isiamas and
Cavinas, creating small towns, where these Indians took a liking to the benefits of social life,
thus contributing greatly to the general good of the country.

Currently, the immoderate use of spirits such as brandy, which in religious festivities to drink
too much, brings pecuniary ruin of indigenous the great deterioration of his health, and, therefore
indispensable, the disorder in customs.

Would be easy, however, remedy evils of this nature, imposing heavy rights to the introduction
of such harmful liquids, or taking any other measures his good sense dictates to the Government for
there is nothing so pitiful as to see how much damage excesses similar to social advancement, morally
and physically brutalizing those who are left dominated by them.