 When he left, returned to his espionage remained on the stairs very long time without knowing
why he did that. She heard the confused murmur of conversation and his wife Dolores. The girl
was chattering; Joaquin also had an expansive mood: the talk increasingly encouraged. So it
figured to see some happy laughter of his wife, that surprised him most indignant. At last
he noticed that he began to eat. Dolores was and came with the dishes. Finished dinner. The
maid stood in the dining room and continued talk. Tired of standing, sat in one of the rungs
of the ladder. In doing felt ashamed and began to give some vague account of the emotions that
seize your mind. Waited a long time that way, feeling the confused murmur of voices, in which nothing
could distinguish, or even what it was that of his wife and which is the maid. After observed
leaving the room. I still figured that his wife would use this occasion to go up to visit.
He stood strongly and prepared to get into his room as soon as felt footsteps on the stairs.
But he waited in vain. Mrs. Dolores went to blue cabinet. He felt the door close behind them, then
noticed that opened again and the maid came and took the path of his room. Undoubtedly helped to
strip the lady and left her in bed.

With his head in his hands, his elbows on his knees, stood motionless,
abstracted, only now hearing the voice of his thought and the beating
of his heart.

A lively spite, which would not notice him cruelly biting the bowels. I felt the need sighted with his
wife, insults, spitting, slapping her. Why was a moment had refused to receive it, and now yearned
to have it that way before? The thought mayorazgo it was because their hatred and indignation
had grown up. He did not know how long it stayed in this position. The desire to be in front of his
wife increasingly burned alive in his chest, made him restless, excited, it was becoming a fever,
an intense rage that devoured. Oh, having it in his hands, squeezing until he screams in pain,
make you suffer in the body that he had suffered in the soul! Hot iron spikes pricked him
by back, his hands trembled as if you were asked to calm down a choke with his forward, an
unbearable heat was rising from the legs to the brain. The darkness is thickening, wrapped him in
a warm atmosphere, suffocating, as if he were in a basement. There a moment he thought he could
not move, the members refused to obey numb at will. He made an effort, however, as if to break
a cloth to hold him, and stood up.

He walked unsteadily to his room. The light from the lamp burning on the table will hurt so that
was about to fall obfuscated. Apagola a breath, he fumbled the window and opened wide. A gust of
wind and water living struck him and penetrated his face roaring
the room, sending out the papers on the table.

D. Álvaro air inhaled with delight cold and wet, looked out the window and gave her burning forehead
to the inclement rain. Thousand Needles rain put out his cheeks and turned the bathed in tears completely.
For some minutes he enjoyed with delight of that cold, desirable that penetrate into the brain and
calm the chaotic activity. The night was dark. Despite the thick canopy of clouds, moonlight
and scattered managed to squeak through a weak and sad clarity. Only when a cloud black thicker
and she walked past downloading his load of water, light is almost completely extinguished. The
waves crashed against the rocks that serve as a bulwark to the Field of fainting. The wind
whistled through the cracks tower of the church. The mournful music of the raging elements calmed
down a little hidalgo fever.

Comforted by this drink, breathe freely, it was believed his own master. However, the few moments
the same desire sharp, burning, prick the brain again. Oh, to have before the infamous vomit
in the face of injuries to their pain and anger had built up for three years and then take
it by the neck and twisted!

One moment of pleasure compensate the torture he had experienced. One minute was worth an entire
lifetime pain. And why not enjoy it? Do not possessed the executioner of his happiness? Was not there
below, sleeping peacefully, while he was still shaking from cruel torture? He removed a bit of
the window and wiped his face with his handkerchief. He felt he was powerless to fight with
that appetite for revenge. His entire philosophy ruthless, indifferent, had gone under. The world
ceased to be a pure representation, it became undeniable reality, life took on the absolute value
that has to all be finite. Was forced, in spite of reason, to meet animal instincts screaming in
the background of our being. In vain, to calm down, it was said all those emotions that were worth
anything or meant in the eternal course of things, that within a very short time everything would
be smoke in vain represented the imbecility of human beings fighting and suffering in the holocaust
of a force that made fun of him. All your thoughts crashed into a powerful desire, irrational, he
dominated. The brute, as ever, was more than the philosopher.

He fumbled out, and leaning on the walls came up the stairs. Lowering the first step, his boots squeaked
in the silence of the house. Sentosa and emptied them. Then slid down without making a sound.
Without stumbling on the perfect knowledge of the house, walked through the corridors until
you reach the blue cabinet door.

At that moment the great clock in the dining room gave a bell. He did not know what time belonged
average. Put his ear to the keyhole and spent some time listening without perceiving sound. Undoubtedly
Joaquina was already asleep. Then the door slid into the chamber exhaust was in the hallway and returned
the ear. After a moment he heard the same breathing and serene. A shudder ran live all over
his body to perceive it. He felt a knot in throat, but a knot of fire: the heart wanted to jump
on the chest, placed his hands on him to turn off the sound of the heartbeat. The traitor was asleep
uncured him. "That desire for reconciliation was therefore a sham? "He came to look for money only?
How miserable! What a woman so hateful!

Using every possible precaution, lifted the latch on the door and pushed. Had pin thrown inside.
Then he went to the door of the cabinet. It was open. He walked around the room on tiptoe,
holding their breath, reached the bedroom and lifted the curtains. Went a step further and hit
the bed, put his hand on it and slid to the head.

He felt the pressure of his wife's body to swell with breathing. He pulled his face towards the
place where he must be the head of the lady and said very softly:

- Joaquina Joaquina.

He did not wake.

- Joaquina Joaquina - repeated.

Nor did any movement. Then gently shook his shoulder, calling it again.

The lady screamed and woke up terrified.

- Jesus!

Who is it? Who goes?

- Do not worry, me - he said weakly the estate.

- Who? Who? - Replied the lady, with signs of terror in his voice, leaning against the wall.

-
I, am Álvaro ... Mira - said in a trembling voice, - I know you've
come to make friends ... You did well ... Forget it all, start a new
life ...

The lady did not respond.

Tucked against the wall, heard his breathing still longing for shock.

- I made superhuman efforts to forget - continued with the same voice trembling off by emotion -
but they were useless ... You're stuck with iron and fire in my chest ... You have been my
first, my only love in this world ... I have done much damage, a lot! but even were to make me a
thousand times more, will not be erased from my soul, that heady moments that I owe you ... I love
you, yes, I love, I adore you! ... Although call me a coward, unworthy, I will repeat to face
the world ... If you knew how I suffered! It was not my dignity, my pride destroyed what made me
suffer ... My heart is what has been ... What a disappointment! What a sadness so deep! It
seemed as if a cold hand gently gather me the guts ... But it's all over ... Is not that already happened?
... We begin to love again, like that you later in my arms for the
first time in a street tree in the gardens Aranjuez ...

The same
silence from Joaquin.

- Answer me ... Have I scared, sweetheart?

Forgive me ... Why do not you come after that was the cure?

... You thought I was going to throw you? ... No, my precious ... no ... I love you, I adore
...

At the same time, extending his hands, ran with his wife, grabbed
her and took her lips with enthusiasm.

The lady promptly withdrew.

D. Alvaro was overwhelmed.

- Why did you withdraw your hand? ... Do not you tend to me mine, and I'm offended? ... Have
not you been be reconciled with me? ...

- Yes, yes, Álvaro - "she murmured .-- A so I came ... You scared me ...

- Forgive, Joaquina ... If you knew what happiness causes me hear
your voice!

I just never now, And ever! hear her again.

Will you be my wife? "- He added, lowering his voice, leaning to bring the mouth to the face
of the lady .-- Leave me a site next to you, beautiful ... Let me
be a happy night ...

- No, Álvaro, not now - gossip again tomorrow
.-- unfaithful wife ... Let me, I am very tired ... Let me see you
tomorrow ...

- Do not bother.

I encircle you can and sleep as quiet ...

- No, now can not be ... Morning.

- Why not? Will not you be my girl? Do not want to be happy again, as in those early months
of our marriage?

- Yes, I want ... But now I am very nervous ... I want to stay alone
... Tomorrow is another day, and I promise to be yours ... Here's
my hand ... Go to sleep, Álvaro ... Until tomorrow.

Montesinos sought in the darkness that pretty little hand, she knew so well, and heels pressed
against his lips, devoured it with kisses. Joaquina abandoned in his possession, After waiting
for leave.

Soltola, in effect, but it was to throw her arms neck and pressed
against his chest, crazy, lost love, crushing her lips with kisses
brutal, frantic.

The lady struggled fiercely to free herself, and she did, with staggered her husband a shove.

-
I told you I would not, want not! - Angry voice shouted .-- If you ever touch me I'm naked as
I leave these streets ... Go! Go!

D. Alvaro became glued to the ground by the shock. Were not his words that left him cold, horror,
was that voice sharp as a knife blade, reaching to depths chest.

-
Go!

Go away - she repeated further raising the cry.

At that time no one thought crossed, by the brain of primogeniture: all faculties were wiped
out, broken by the shock and horror of the coup. No one felt more alive longing impression,
as if he had fallen from somewhere very high and was still air. The world disappeared in the
darkness, nothing existed in the darkness enveloped him, even his thoughts. There remained a
strident voice, fatal and a great pain, eternal pain.

- Go! Go!

Bumping into furniture, jumping as if it escapes a disaster, left that stay. Found on the stairs clutching
tightly to the handrails to avoid falling. There stopped and tried to coordinate their ideas.
Why running? What had happened? No reason was given that sudden flight.

He tried to turn and enter back into the residence of his wife and enter into explanations, but
his legs refused to obey. An instinctive horror, as if before a black hole and deep, he was
arrested. Advanced, with both hands clutching the railing, and came to his room. Hurricane, streaming
through the open window, had dominion over him, the papers were flying, the furniture that
was holding were wet. Her hands came across the desk chair and sat down without even trying to find
matches or close the window.

It remained motionless, his eyes wide open in the dark, without feeling
the cold that penetrated to the bone or water showers bathed him and
off the head, unable to determine if the rumor that deafened and I
was really dizzy wave or sounding only in his brain.

So he was surprised the light of day, a sad day and dirty, like almost all winter in rocks. Alzose
the end like a sleepwalker, entered the bedroom and flopped in bed. Ramiro could not wake him
at nine o'clock for breakfast. It was a dream invincible annihilation, like death. He slept
in absolute immobility, eyes curved and densely pale face. When three o'clock in the afternoon
he went to the profound lethargy, knew without any wonder that his wife had left in the care
of Lancia.

VII

After venting their anger Osuna's daughter, followed by Quadrant down the street, laughing nervously
for some time yet. But that faded after laugh.

He felt an uneasiness strange, some leeway made his legs falter.

He paused a moment: he attacked wishes to turn back and spy on the couple who left there in
the Field of fainting. The fear of being noticed stopped her.

Although vague, it also gave account of the singular and reprehensible
behavior.

Why had he done that? Who was she to spy footsteps of his confessor,
let alone reprimand?

His defiance was so alive, however, that not allowed to repent. His mouth was dry, her cheeks were
burning. He walked hurriedly and went to the dock. I was already
alone.

The sea breeze cooled it a bit. Felt, yet so busy he did not want to go home: I needed to talk,
distracted. Go to Ms Eloisa house and dine there as usual.

Just going to put the couple at the table when she arrived. They
were accompanied by P. Norberto, which meant that he had calluses.

-
What stifled come, child! - Dona Eloisa said.

- Do not you know ...?
I come home alone from Ms Trinidad ... I come to dinner with you ...
But do me the favor of sending a message to dad.

She tried to appear
calm and cheerful.

- So alone, eh? Solita at eight in the evening
- said D. Martin jokingly.

- Oh, if you knew what was coming hectic!
... So few people walking down the street. At a time I found myself
alone, I ran until I found some women.

- What? Did you fear who took
it for one of those pigeons here Fr Norberto hunting with loop? -
turned to say D. Martin penthouse barracks humor.

The girl blushed
to the ears