 

For reasons that are easy to deduce, the ladies certainly did not follow the example of the master
home. Young people do not feel any inclination to separate from the rest of the night, communicate
with one word, with a look even if some of the many that boiled in heads. So, almost instinctively,
after dinner returned to the border gate and started walking up and down, in two groups: Isabel
with her aunt and Meneses and The Rose and Leonardo in the rear. The first round asked the
latter to the former, in a low tone, telling the older sister

- What is the girl?

This was coincidentally the first verse of a song very popular then,
and Rosa, who was living and mischievous, answered it with the second
verse that gave its name:

- Measles.

- What is cure?, Leonardo asked
again with the third verse.

- With coscorron; concluded Rosa unable
to restrain his laughter.

- What Vds. laugh, asked Isabel very attentive
to what was happening behind him.

- Do not tell, Gamboa, Rosa said.

Let your curiosity.

She is not on our side.

It seemed that Elizabeth intended to monopolize for the remainder
of the evening the conversation and society Diego Meneses.

Hence the apparent motive of Rosa with her peak, as revealed his
last words.

The same suspicion and with the same copy of reasons could shelter Isabel respect her younger sister,
because from the beginning and company seized the attention of Leonardo. But none of the youth
were satisfied with himself or the other. This was true, of Luckily they got tired of walking more
quickly than could reasonably be expected, only instead of sitting as perhaps leaned on the railing,
falling, too casually, which wanted a secret: Isabel beside Leonardo. Rosa to de Meneses, and
Juana was group. He loved his nieces to this mother's love, like one who had grown from little
girls; wanted their establishment, and her matchmaking being kind, of course it did not take poor
elimination through which ones could have a moment of intimate communication with their beaus.

There
was the house around the most profound peace, having shot the breeze to get up at sunset.