 

This ruling has had favorable effects in only two years that have acquired practical many Indians
a regular conveniences, many families have been neat and tidy and not ashamed to appear before
all sorts of people, with whose company are becoming sociable and acquiring a perfect civility prevail
in all abundance, and every day is over, for the example of a stimulus serves others. You've
seen it, and so has seen the Governor Governor of this province, and so I have no fear that
seems you more expensive born of self-esteem.

Although the common view is taken these natives as lazy and unable to poderles instill a desire
to escape poverty and despondency that are, similar to those and believe it is natural for them
this neglect, I've never been persuaded to this view. I will not deny that the mood and food can have
some influence on the strength and disposition the body and make it more or less active according
to their qualities, and more can influence, my opinion, the education, which are printed in
the mind the ideas that shape their operations, but always deny that they are unable to overcome
some hindrances, such as many think. Will agree, yes, that was hard, but that is impossible.

By
repeated experiences I have known that the Guarani Indians are not
as lazy as the mean, not even noticing they must be lazy.

The town of Candelaria goes to work that of Santa Maria Maggiore four sawyers Indians, not Indians
have this job in Santa Maria, to whom it was said of two real wages each day, one for the community
of its people and the other for them in that people working from sunrise to sunset very happy
for the wages they knew they were winning. If you have arrived to dismiss two of them, have already
learned to saw other Santa Maria, none of the four wanted to be fired, everyone wanted to continue,
without flinching from the hard work of the saw, and they caused much feeling when they were
fired. The same happened with those who have worked calafates ships in San Jose, and finally,
how these terms are used in work with pleasure and commitment.

All Spanish employees in the villages have one or more Indians who serve them without giving them
more wages than food, clothing and some short realillo.

And with only this very specific and efficient servants, without ever excuse what they're told,
even trabajosísima execution, and the greatest punishment that can be given to these servants
is to dismiss because is something that costs a lot of feeling.

Any Indian who offered a short interest is ready to send whatever
they want, provide care themselves, and seeking to be preferred to
others; So these are not procedures lazy, because if they were, no
interest will move to work.

Everywhere that the Indians occupy Tapes are very good paying wage
laborers, as experienced in the city of Buenos Aires and in all of
Spanish, who prefer other laborers, so the not being applied here
is because they lack the incentive of pay.

They are also noted thieves, and they do all they can steal, but it
forces them the need, they crave whatever they see, and more so there
is within villages and as they wish and are not buying it, and even
if they had they would find who sold it, knowing no other way to buy,
steal, if they find time.

Well is that it is not so general this defect, which not conceive infamy, perhaps because this
year he was punished for theft, do the next mayor. I discover this defect in the Indians a
willingness to civilize and make time-consuming, because once you covet brilliant, if they provided
it can be purchased at the cost of work apply hard, which does not happen if they were looking things
with indifference.

To complete this regard I refer to here as the government's particular political and economics
of these natural, according to the generality with which it is practiced in these villages to you
come more aware of the lights, genius and habit of all.

Each village has a council composed of a mayor, deputy mayor, two
mayors, four aldermen, a mayor of brotherhood, a sheriff, a butler
and a secretary, those who choose the New Year's Day, according to
the provisions in laws, with the exception of Mayor and lieutenant,
who have no time.

Elections do them together eight or more days in advance, and each chapter offers an Indian to
occupy the job he exercised consultation before the will of the mayor and the administrator, which
are major in this machine rolling. While all chords, lead the list of those who think naming the administrator,
which, if you please, tell them do so, and if any of the mentioned have any blemish, or does
not like the manager, tells them that they ought not, and to indicate other than perhaps the
manager tells them, or privately hinted to the sheriff, and well done. In addition to the jobs
of council members, has designated next year all jobs military, the keepers of the chores and
head teachers of all trades and arts, so that in every village passed 80 and even 100 those
who hold offices, and if the people is short, all become mandarins, and there are few who rule. Recent
jobs Exclusively playing the sheriff the name, but he always does with the consent of the administrator,
particularly those whose occupation is the care of community assets.

Prepared lists and chords all come together on New Year's Day, early morning, and to touch cash being
published on the doors of the house of the appointed council, whose act attends all the local
people, some by curiosity, others to receive in their jobs, to take possession immediately, without
waiting for confirmation from the government.

They deliver rods and sticks to the mayor and other council members re-appointed, and officers
corresponding military insignia, thence go to Mass, and then home administrator to be present,
which charges them fulfilling their obligation, and if not already extended the agreement of
the elections, extends, and signed by the voters, they always say all with one accord and a
plurality of votes have been chosen and appointed to the content, refer to governor of the province
for approval, and for other jobs that are not town hall simply the approval of the Lieutenant Governor
of the department.

Every day of the year, at dawn, and are together all the council members at the door of magistrate,
whose runners have a bench or seat in the meantime they feel it is time going to Mass, which
is always early.

The mayors have their sticks, batons and policy makers, they rarely release the hands, and
finished the first Mass is going to care door of the priest's room, to greet and take you, and
from there go to administrator, who warns them what they have to do that day and fired, van together
to the house of the mayor, and his door determine the distribution of people, and others corresponds
to the mine. Meanwhile it's time to go to work, which is always late grievances and demands
heard there, which are almost always missing work, theft, concubinage and gossip with each
other. If the accuser is lobbyists, or is responsible for care something, they bring to India
and Indian prisoner accused, and with little consideration send him flogged, as they see fit.
Well you never can spend their punishment of 50 lashes that this government allows them, reserving
the punishment of felonies to understand its causes and judgments, except the capitals, or
others who deserve punishment on criminals, who dispatched to Buenos Aires with the summary. For
the executors of prisons and punishment called sergeants, and they never fail to hand the halberd,
and the scourge bring it tight to the body to be instantly ready to send him. Regularly hear
cases all lobbyists, together with the mayor and mayors, but in the tasks and work any the
council, he is but alderman him beaten with a missing or commits other defect.

From the time of the Jesuits have the custom, and still see punctual, which, in ending of whipping
criminals, have to lift the soil, where they seek, and will humbly before him who sent them to
punish, and give the thanks Had they been corrected his faults.

If one ignores this requirement will take care of it, test and having it for pride, send it
again whip who humbles himself like or unwilling.

Always ensures that prison inmates do not stop, but those processed by capital crimes, or those
who drop out frequently and the other the penalty is applied, after the crime is justified,
and set free because prisons are unsafe and those who are responsible
too careless, and so often they are prisoners without sufficient to
punish caregivers.

They let them go out alone to their needs, are to mass, even the murderers, so that will not
be those who will not.

Daily feature classic and dress up with dresses that have the people for these functions. Vístense
also military officers with their own, and many others dress and accompanying form, that among
these are some expensive clothes, but they ridicule that serves to
embellish.

In the town where he attended the Governor or any Lieutenant Governor to attend every room,
accompanied by return to church in every ceremony, but being alone have little formality. Whenever
they go together platoon, or rather in a row, before the mayor, who is the deputy mayors,
and in turn others, the latter being the least degree. In church sit in seats; regularly divided
into two bands, although some people feel all of chapter in a single seat, and the deputy sheriff
with the rank military officers post, but the chiefs, who were to be preferred, have no designated
place, or thing The distinction, if not for having a job, take the place that he touched.

The
governor of the people they put in the church chair, rug and pillow, and was saved by priests have
all privileges that the laws are kept governors Timekeeping day, and attending other people's
religious. It gives peace a priest stole, and other holidays a neat band acolyte, we can observe
with lieutenant governors, when you're not the governor, by order of His Excellency Don Francisco
Bucareli, although the governors have patronized Lt. allowed another
chair was immediately put his own, when it is a Lieutenant where he
is.

Guess is that because, as the Indians are so rude, do not think is slight that they do, or the
lieutenant, in the absence of the governor, that usurps honor, in short, and it is practiced.
In the councils of peace gives an acolyte, and the priest gives holy water at the door of
the church on more traditional, but the governor all holidays.

The days of King's birthday, those of his real name, and those in which celebrating a happiness
of the monarchy or the royal family since the day before tomorrow gets the Cabildo in ceremony,
removed from the council houses of the four flags of each town, two with real guns and two with
cross of Burgundy, and other military insignia, which are four spades long five or six yards,
and very thin, small sunfish on the tips and some small colored feathers, put in order and
distribution in parts of these, four horsemen of the old-fashioned, and some sticks, some in
stock form, and others with metal shield or steel cuffs.

From ten o'clock start giving several turns in order, to touch or sound boxes, the square, some
on foot and horseback, to assemble several skirmishes and tournaments, until midnight, at which
time the festival is announced with pealing bells and a few shots of Camaret, whose signal
attend all the people at the door of the church, whose porch is attached the real picture
on the side for the gospel in a drawer, interior doors and curtains, and next opposite are the royal
arms painted on the wall or canvas. Together all the music complete, open the drawer and discover
the real picture repeating several times: "Viva el Rey, Our Lord, Don Carlos III ", and put
a guard with flags, and two effective sentinel before the real picture. In the afternoon vespers
are sung with great solemnity, efforts are required in this is not some religious priests,
and then return to the skirmishes in the meantime have some dances or dances of boys, who marvel
at the order and rhythm to keep, even if so young that fail to eight years. The dances they
use are ancient or foreign; I have not seen similar dances in Spain, or public amusements
of some peoples or those used in the octave of Corpus Christi day. Now some are introduced
modern contradanzas English, Valencian dances and other dances that use the Spanish. These guys
dancers adorn dresses by the way, with wreaths and garlands that are attractive dances, there
are some that are made up of 24 dancers, who are several links, and even letters with the name you
want.

Between dance and dance play games or snacks, in their language called decline, all of its invention,
and some of them seem quite artificial and grace to the principles but who can not complete them
properly, the more the end to beatings and whippings, which held with much laughter the bystanders.

As
the sun reserves the real picture with the ceremonies and cheers to that view, and at night they
put lights and cookers are assembled in the square, and repeated the dance as afternoon. The next
day at sunrise, turns to discover the real picture on the as such, which remains open all day.
At the usual hour, and given the ringing of bells, get together all the people in the church, which
is sung Mass and Te Deum with great solemnity, and then continue
in the square, horse racing contour in which, divided into four teams,
the Indians make many changes or figures the old fashioned way, all
at the touch of many boxes and trumpets, and with great clamor and
noise of large bells, that have covered the harnesses and halters
for horses, whose ornament and grandeur.

For lunch have six or eight tables arranged to treat, which is home of the mayor, and those of some
chiefs and councilors, for which there is community of property,
for each table, a bull, a little salt and a couple of jars of honey,
and they add to the what can yours.

In each house there treat have a long table in the corridors, often a narrow table on two sticks
and a small table adorned girl by way of small altar, with support, which put an image or picture
of a saint, in this table, Marketing more slender and delicate meats such as poultry, cakes,
boiled or baked potatoes, bread, etc. These tables, with more than a few large pieces of roasts,
and other things, they bring them to the square near the school gate, at noon, to take them
to the priest's blessing, like Indians whose ceremony attended by all the Spanish that is in the people,
particularly if the governor or lieutenant governor, and then the priest blesses the food,
health with a touch of boxes and trumpets, and beat the flags and music, sing a letter, they
have provided in their language, so thank God that feeds them, and made this retreat with tables
for their homes, and get to eat in the corridors, which run these
days with all ceremony.

Do not sit on those tables, but those who are invited, to be be his duty, nor feel any india. In
sitting down the Indians, that all they face the plaza, are the wives and daughters of the guests,
each with a plate big mud, comes and puts it under the table, at the foot of the father or
husband, and retires slightly, remaining standing in front of her husband, the entire duration
of the meal, which will serve some Indians, who bring each guest a plate full of good sized food,
of eating a little or do you eat, and then empties into the dish that has its feet, giving
the empty plate, and bring it back full of something else or the same, and does same with the
first, and so continue until completion. So that together on a plate All leftover meats few
have served at the table, to dessert, if any, together with the others. After they have finished,
come and take women's plates leftovers and take them home, where husbands are also, and together with
their children or friends eat what is left in the banquet.

Although magistrates have the same style when I came to these towns, they have banished entirely
in private, and treat that in these feasts and the patron saint Holder of the people have at
home, and do just as the Spanish. Within your house have the table well served and neat in
her women sit together with their husbands, and they behave soberly, and priests go home to bless
the magistrates the table.

A morning run in the square ring, giving the wearer awards, and at night are repeated dances and
wane.

Of these functions is done with more solemnity is the holy day of the holder pattern Village.
For her feature in the plaza at the entrance of the street that is opposite the door of the church,
a castle or scaffold made of high beams, which are frames and balconies, green branches, and
adorned with racks of linen draperies and painted, there placed in a shrine of the saint's image,
and before, at the foot of the altar, give way to fly the royal standard. Very early yesterday
morning, as are all lobbyists, military offices and other town employees
dressed and saddled horses to go out and get on the road to the governor,
the lieutenant and the priests, administrators and councils of other
countries, invited to the party, have put spies on all roads, and
warning that someone comes out to a quarter of a mile to find it,
there I salute welcome him and accompany him to his lodging.

In these submissions become the whole morning, using running time intervals riding around the square,
is the dominant passion of the Indians, who never cease to run all three days of the function,
and for this they have carefully reserved the horses that are to serve those days, which they
call the horses of the saint, and they serve only particular tasks, but not in the daily service
of rooms, so it is also desirable, as are in good condition those horses when needed.

On the first councilman who is responsible is the use of real Lieutenant, to whose house the council
goes at noon, and accompany him to the council house, where he delivered
logo real lieutenant, a tall pole has a shield over the fist-sized
silver hand, which are carved the royal arms.

Real Ensign accompanied by a little Indian which serves as a page, and takes the baton when he
wears the royal standard. For either peoples have dressed the same, with expensive embroidery
and braids, but, as they are the old cut and are not adjusted to their bodies, make them ridiculous.
The lieutenant takes real the royal standard and with all the accompanying leads and placed
in the castle, repeating many times: "Long live the King, Our Lord, Don Carlos III." From there
all go to the door of the church, and find the picture in the manner aforesaid, and then enter
the church, where the singing of the Magnificat, and withdraw, take her home to the royal standard
bearer.

In the afternoon, after given two ringing of bells to announce the run, is the town hall mounted
and accompanied by the royal officials and other attendees, a governor's house or lieutenant
governor, along for the ride out of the standard, where all managers attend Spanish and other
competitors, as well as the magistrates and councils of other peoples; and all are mounted
from there to house the royal standard bearer, which accompany and are to take the royal standard,
and to receive repeated the "Long live the King" to the sound of boxes, trumpets, bells and
several shots of Camaret, and arranged in good order, turning the square, walking ahead military
officers on the street with banners, pikes and other signs, playing
and beating flags at intervals, and repeating "Long live the King."

Arrive at the door of the church, where they expect the priests to all competing religious, who,
after given water blessed sanctuary attached to the royal standard, which receives the priest
or the one is to celebrate Mass, and placed within the sanctuary, next to the gospel in a foot
wood, and they put real Ensign chair, rug and pillow, the same on the outside of the sanctuary,
in front of that occupied by the governor or lieutenant governor, and running out the run, back
to retire in the same way and, before giving back to the plaza, placed the royal standard
in place.

The next day we repeated the ride, and sing the Mass and Vespers the evening before, and noon
real reserves the banner, but the real picture remains discovered all the day, occupied in running
in the square, dancing, ring in the evening and other entertainment.

In the same way that continues the next day, which usually take some bulls Cut the blades to not
hurt the fighters, which are very clumsy and adventurous. In some representing peoples operas
or comedies truncated nights, but as representatives are Indians, and most of them boys, and do not understand
what they say and can not pronounce While the Castilian, are poorly understood and have little
grace these representations for Spanish and for them.

At noon join the tables in the square for the blessing in this way, regular pass this day twenty
tables which are arranged, and some rich people even reach percent, and all very rich meat, cheaper
for the people must spend this day at least 50 bulls, because of the neighboring villages attends
many people, and all provide food in abundance.

In those days it was divided, while the dances, bull ring, and several trifles of who work in
towns, such as beads, cups, spoons, combs and canvas blade cotton, are also given, if there in the store,
needles, tape, knives and other trifles they believe a lot. Of this, some things are given as
a reward to those who dance or carry ring, and others were thrown in the catch, which is what they
have more fun, and together to catch them all, even the lobbyists,
if something falls to where they are sitting forget the formality
with which they are cast as children and to take what they can, although
in the day contain something.
