 Hovered around his house morning
and afternoon. One appeared sometimes appear behind the windows, sometimes, agreeing in advance through
Casilda, out of the city and went to sit on a ridge, front of the wall that corresponded to
his mansion, to see it hovering between turret and battlements.

The eve of departure Ramiro spent more than an hour in that place, waiting Beatriz appeared
on the tower. There was a long silence. The actor would watch the rough wall, at whose feet the
granite, reduced by ancient hands, mimicking the brunt of a sea. The girl appeared, at last,
and something white, a paper ticket, began to decline in the air with flickering ripples. What
signs would bring to him those beautiful winged messenger? What would have been the focus chosen by
his beloved to put a piece of his soul in the solemn goodbye? Received the paper in his hat and
opened it. Said:

     
     "Even more than I love you I love you if, in coming to Salamanca,
     I you did choose same; in the store called the Zamorano, a vihuela
     graceful sound cute. I would come after then, through some traveling,
     as I have had enough need.

They tell me that the San Juan priest should return this week.

                                  

     "Happy trip, my master degree.

Beatriz.

"I could write out this role by the owner, since yesterday I have
disabled a finger, playing in the garden with friends.

"

Doña Guiomar had set in motion the many servants. The next day, early in the morning, everything was
rigged, and when the time comes, sacáronse the street, the front
door, laden mules, the cuartago to Ramiro and the male donkey for
the Canon, who should accompany to Castellanos de la Canada.

Ramiro came to say goodbye to his grandfather.

Don Inigo was allowed to kiss the right hand to be dumbed down; a blizzard of old had fallen
suddenly upon him, always cool to the last heat of his intellect. His face was sucked in places
and in places dark yellow, like lemons to be resected.

In turn, Dona Guiomar hugged his son with a forced smile in tears, and, for to follow with his
eyes, went with her damsels to the tower of the mansion.

XXX

"My son, I take you longer to answer to a mother who loves you more than himself. Until today,
is the day of Pentecost, I have come new ones brought word that the lawyer Carmona. "

Thus began the second letter of your child Dona Guiomar.

Finally, one morning, a Carmelite friar, returning from Alba de Tormes, pulled out before her, the
hollow of the sleeve, the coveted role. Ramiro had his first meeting with the President College
of the Archbishop, whose own hand had left all the letters he was
carrying.

After his previous income referred to the Minor Schools.

"Is it any wonder - said - that this old custom still torment the new with cruelest inventions,
so I penetrated into the cloister, looking the very sharply, hand on the lining of the bar
and drag it by the rodajilla bravo, there were none who dared to wiggle. I know not what fate,
but everyone knows my feat with Moors. A bearded student said to me yesterday that, since he
comes to schools, no a new memory that has escaped the spit.

"Then he added:" Do you remember, mother, of that captain Antonio de Quinones, who went to our house?
In that I saw in Castellanos and wanted to take him to chase pirates. Seeing my reluctance, I said,
'Look at your worship that God made him priest, but to soldier. Care no mistake, you will regret. In
Cartagena you wait until the day of San Pedro and San Pablo. "

It was all the contents of the letter. Some time later came a shorter, which communicated only
that in the School of Archbishop now required him clean blood tests. "This - added - has always
been practice to all who sought to enter, and why are there the best
bloodlines from Spain.

But not enough, perhaps, to know my last name and I am a descendant of your son and grandfather
so clear, to excuse all probanza?

In asaltome first send the whim of the cabinets of my mules so that
they know of our coats.

But it is the power suit to the rule! "

Doña Guiomar sent an old servant, to a large animal, a terse note saying to return sooner because
his grandfather was very bad. In effect, Don Inigo, consumed by a mystery disease, passed
from this life terribly, her lips quivering by incessant prayer. That sad flesh, flowing moods,
his work anticipated the grave incident. A subtle stench spread throughout the house. The ladies
and the servants were pressed noses passing by the door of the sick.

Meanwhile, Dona Guiomar not a moment away of his head as if to give the Lord the double moral
and physical torture that prolonged to her that closed room.

Ramiro returned as soon as he could. Upon entering the city through the Puerta del Puente, a
of the guards said,

- Your worship is late. Already led to the grandfather.

Don Inigo had been buried the day before.

When the youth entered the stables who lived in the old, it seemed, at first steps, which could not
proceed, such was the stench that hung in the confined environment. The bed was as he had left
the agony, and the pillow with the sign of what no longer ponder and dream again about his softness.
The boats of medicines, the convict, mortar, cups, bands, everything had been upset and confused
about the furniture, making think of the anxiety of fighting season.

He went to the bookstore and looking the volumes piled on the floor and glasses horn marking the page
of a folio, another day to continue reading, to see, hanging from a cloves, yellow shoes, which
kept the old brushes that painted signs; and beyond, into a corner,
the gouty leg stool, blackened by grease ointments, felt in his mind
a deep sadness.

That was the end of all our endeavors.

There was, in the runoff of this being, that lesson, that advice, always ambiguous that encourages
both enjoyment and penance.

When everything had calmed down and the lot fell back into his silent
monotony, called Dona Guiomar alone with his son and said, in brief,
the state that they left the Don Iñigo ancient heritage.

They were completely ruined. He had lived until then delaying the final collapse force extreme
cases, pledging to the Genoese, one by one, all property, and selling, finally, on racks,
silverware, jewelry, tapestries. The butler flamenco it was, she said, the only person who knew
the house heritage management, and have managed perhaps new taxes, had just left for his country,
to collect a inheritance. But they had no sun, determined almost entirely, and some shields saved
in a chest, which will soon be exhausted.

It was necessary therefore to sell the mansion and resign ourselves to live in a modest house
in the suburbs.

- Anyway - Dona Guiomar added - no more precise a lot of money. Demand the Holy Church purest
goods, and now I think you can study theology at the seminary he
himself city.

Ramiro heard his mother with genuine amazement.

Ruined! Could it be?

What about the large flows that came to them for countless alliances, from the most remote ancestors,
all those grants of the Kings, all those Segovia manors, all the houses and lands in Avila and
his land, which appeared mented at every step in their scrolls?

In other circumstances would not have cared poverty, knowing that
the lack of finance pushing the heroic adventures.

But now, his instinct sensed a loving disaster because of those lost assets. He lowered his
head in silence and after a moment meditation, declared himself to his mother something that he had
not determined yet: intention to marry Beatrice, and, without his voice altered, is also said to
the great crime We remain hopeful that it would be false to his ecclesiastical
vocation.

Doña Guiomar not even blink, but his hands nervously rubbed the arms
of chair in which she sat.

Ramiro Then, bending the knee before her, took her in a frenzy both hands and staring eyes, asked
her to assist his plans and that love of God, not to sell solar to think about the impression
it would produce in the mind Don Alonso and his daughter that act diminished.

- I try to ginoveses - added, - something that will entregalles, furniture and still remain
my stone dagger, but for my honor!, do not sell the lot, mother, do not sell, not sell the lot!

She
rose slowly, his left hand on his chest:

- With what you just said - said - my life in the century is over. You now make the master. Orders,
and that His Divine Majesty to forgive you.

His expression was rare. The pain made her smile too. He walked to the table. Removed the wick
of the candlestick, cleaned it, twisted it properly. Then, without
uttering a word, left of stay.

PART TWO

I

King Don Felipe Segundo was called, with reason, the Wise.

Great were the turmoil and excesses of Aragon, but in late 1591, all seemed to end in peace
and harmony under the simulated mercy of the monarch.

The lords rebel, lost apprehension, returned to Zaragoza and offered his table the Castilian army
officers. It was time for the royal vengeance.

One morning, the Chief Justice, Don Juan de Lanuza, climbing the steps of the cathedral, he
found himself arrested on behalf of the King. A captain of musketeers awaited him early, pretending
examine the prints of a bookstore.

"Don Juan L earn to Lanuza, and do it then cut the head ', such was
the handwritten order of Philip the Second .-- And who condemned me?
- had asked the Court to hear the reading of Case .-- The King himself
- he answered .-- Nobody can be my judge - said - but King and kingdom
together in parliament.

The next day the chief magistrate of Aragon was slain by the hand of the executioner. Thus King
"put to death justice" and forever tore out several centuries. Other gentlemen, and among them,
Don Diego de Heredia, Bárboles Baron and Don Juan de Luna, M. of Purroy had to follow the same
fate, after enduring savage tortures. The Duke of Villahermosa and the Count of Aranda died mysteriously
in their prisons. Some rebels that did not have the right to die lordly headless, were dragged
through the streets, in a basket of infamy, to the club.

This was avenged the defense of Antonio Perez and forever broken the
spirit of that magnificent Aragon, who only three years deigned to
throw into the coffers of the King his arrogance charity.

Likewise the people of Castile had been chastened by the Emperor years before, when the rise of the
Communities, but they still used to be seen in one or two rebellious outbreak, as does erect
on their hind legs to the hacks castrated. No longer the masters but also the commoners began
to scream. Was labored repeat example. A lofty city had to offer
this opportunity.

On 21 October, while the royal army on his way to France, entered Aragon appeared in Avila, attached
to doors or walls of the main church, the Church of St. John, of New Butchers, the home of the Valderrábano
and other public places city, seven copies of that seditious rag and Canon Ramiro heard read
an afternoon at Don Enrique Davila on the ground floor of the mansion.

The next day, the magistrate Don Alonso de Carcamo sent an email to the Escorial. The answer
His Majesty was just a handful of black ministers to form the cause. Expected mild punishment,
and the most scurrilous and jácaras letrillas composed on the subject.

On February 14, 1592 statements were published.

To Don Diego de Bracamonte, a Davila and Enrique Daza licensed Zimbron are condemned to be beheaded.
The priest Marcos López Santo took the priesthood suffer deprivation and benefit, forfeiture
of half of his estate, ten years of galleys and banishment for life ", the clerk Antonio number
Díaz, lashing, ten years in the galleys and the same exile.

For many, the intervention of Providence was evident, and his under the prince, drawing each time
an example, completed its work. Scattered wills nothing, nothing figurerías or arrogance that
clutter power. The unit was the first precept of the Royal Art, the invulnerable and absolute
unity, in the image and likeness of that other unit that governed orbs. No will but yours, no more
thought than his own, no more faith than he himself professed. The sovereign of modern Israel
was put on the three tutelary powers: law, the sword and the ephod, and be both that Moses,
Aaron, Joshua and his people. All thrones and the headquarters will serve as a scale up to heaven
and receive He only entered the Most High. His shadow would cover the counties and the seas, and
nations it would look as the new angel, armed iron and flame, winner of Satan.

Meanwhile Spain was consumed. The fever of that monstrous delirium wiping members. The King asked,
relentlessly demanding, dropsy of taxes, and sometimes his hand, to drain the lean udder of the people,
but drew no blood. It was not possible to leave the army without pay and leave the corruption
of princes and cardinals, and the bankruptcy grew, get tangled, which is immense tangled skein
of entrails. The debts were breath of fever, real hacienda panting, each year's income spent
five years ahead.

What record, what discretion was to be tested? At one time remittance manages the Gold and silver
came from the Indies for individuals, markets the nobility, juros, the jobs; invited clerics
to legitimize their children sacrilegious by a handful of real; taxed
the export of wool tax imposed on the bread and wine previously free;
took over the salt sea maestrazgos confiscated; almojarifazgo doubled
and tripled soon the terrible sales tax.

DESMOL peoples lay down to die. Avila, Toro, Cordoba and Granada refused to accept the head
of 1576. In foreign nations the very name of Felipe Segundo was pale
with the bankers.

Finally gave the Fugger Tie up the bag and turned away. Others did not know whether to continue or
break for ever as the Jew who has been given to a gambler luenga sword. The Genoese, meanwhile,
defended with usury. Since 1590, the mess was awful for the estate of the King. Courts, corrupted
by the Monarch, the city had demanded eight million ducats.

And poverty and hunger raged as scourges of God.

An evil spell seemed to sterilize terroirs, stop the mills, lathes, looms, dislocate the arm
of the artisan.

Many did not know and how to earn a living and went to where he was found stealing. They lived
the uncertainty of the bite, the bread was made a prisoner.

       The chicanery of hunger formed an honorable and subtle art, which
had its ballads and its manuals, its poets and graduates.

The poor more harshly attacked the nobles of extinct heritage, as clear and ancient lineage
not allowed to defame his hands in the trades. More than one ate the crust that stole his page,
and sighed with sad dignity, under the cloak, to aspire, by the way, the delicious heat of
the cake. The student imitated, to live, doggy tricks.

His legs of whippet were the terror trade. That was the glorious time of the common pot. Convents
monks swelled, his goals, of sopistas. The hospital and the jail were sought fortunate as
shelters, where they ate regularly and as a miracle.

Thousands of unhappy pustules was brewing or perpetrating bloody
crimes to be fed.

The streets were full of sham beggars, the fields, fake hermits, ports, of starving gentlemen who
came to ask for a place in the galleys.

This anguish of the bowels was added the anxiety of mind, the concern
of being honorable marked by suspicion, only, of the Holy Office,
or to attract the punishment of superhuman power del Rey.

And while it seemed that the wind whispering calumny and denunciation is down under the bed where he
slept, in the folds of the outer port, in the corner of the oratorios.

Many, such as Don Alonso, suspicious of his own mouth during sleep, adormirse and avoided in
the chairs, including the passage of the easement.

All arrogance was fatal and the same silence was not sure. Silentium contumax Ne, ne suspect libertas.
The idea was shaking in the brain, and no pen dare to print what
the soul hidden deeper in the crypt.

Instead, he spoke with delight of distant countries and the inviolable peace of the cloisters.

No
missing, though he loved, indeed, the monarch, feeling it succeed
or suffer their own pride fan, most under the awful compulsion, just
for admiration.

Virility seemed to be summarized in one's own blood then harassed the viscera, and the former
value took the form of stoic disdain of all evil. It was the inexplicable
charm of tyranny. More than one in disgusted by his own subservience
to a simple signal Monarch impassively had opened his veins, as Seneca
or Petronius.

The Spanish mood was quiet and somber. A veritable
plague spread gloom throughout the country as a whiff of purgatory,
tainted souls.

The gentlemen were dressed in mourning, the wood was
as ebony. Never been so grim apparatus death.

The spirit was determined
to extract its main ideas of the tomb itself and its terrible decay.

*
* * * *

Ramiro came from Salamanca on Sunday February 16, 1592, published
two days after judgments. Canon came to visit and one at a time enumerole
convictions. There seemed very pleased to say that Don Enrique Davila
and the lawyer had given them Daza appeal. As for Don Diego, would
be executed the next day.

- You see, my son - said, - that your grandfather
has left on time. It is said that in a good pot can be a bad stew.
City you are now, my son, the words, and teneo very softly, with a
space.

- And who has given the names? - Asked Ramiro.

- Some will
- said the lectoral - who did not want to see Spain again shattered
by the revolt, As in the days of the Emperor. 

Was at once, without
giving rise to another question, that the agents had suspected HM
Don Alonso, and, in the absence of the gentleman, they entered his
house in Rondon, stirring to the last drawer and carrying a large
sheaf of papers.

- Where is executed Don Diego? - Ramiro abruptly
asked again. His pensive eyes seemed immobilized by a dominant thought.

-
At the Market Boy - Canon said .-- Yesterday I was notified of the
decision today should have confessed to receiving the Blessed Sacrament,
and tomorrow will take of the Corn Exchange, at noon, to take you
to the slaughter. It is agreed that no noble thing has to go to salute,
and that outside of the villains, who have always been craving for
this kind of shows, veranle mule only the people of law and the Communities
and Guilds.

Upon hearing this vicious language, Ramiro vehemently
declared that if the noble Avileses not going to say goodbye to Bracamonte,
at the end trance, they were all bad men.

- Everybody knows - he
said - the Don Diego, more than its ancient and glorious lineage,
has always been a man of great honor, and, without doubt, the tragic
end due to the superiority of her mind. Me I can say that I go after
him to the foot of the scaffold, without thinking about my own interest
or reason or no reason of his conviction