 Too much love to their families and homes, and
the ambitious desire to harvest their crops, prompted a considerable defection, which faded As he
had planned, because he could not verify its retreat from the bridge Urcos so soon as it had
proposed, because suddenly all the Indians were gone Chincheros Anta, and most of the militia
force, which consisted force Army, for the small number of veterans that he had received was
successively notices of the chiefs of the other columns, in which he communicated the same incidents,
with troops from their respective commands, and also that he had been attacked by that of Langui
The rebels, led and directed by Diego Cristoval and Tupac-Amaru, the nights of 18 and April
20, which had two very bloody action, in which was considerably loss of the enemy and wounded
many of us, being included in this issue Commander, D. Manuel Castilla, and some senior officials.
Addressed these criticisms circumstances, it was necessary to have active measures, the early
replacement of deserters, that were used 11 days, and verified that measure, was put back in
motion with the body of troops under his command, forcing their marches as he could to address the people
His Sichuan Province Ink, with the intent to bring all his army in Collao, to pacify and sugetarlas
due obedience to the Sovereign.

To this end decided that the column by D. Manuel de Castilla, mayor
of Paruro, follow the path of the people of Macari, where he had to
halt to await orders later.

Cotabamba than commanded by the sheriff, D. José Maria Acuña, shall be directed for Czech Quequi,
Yauri and Coporaque, in order to reduce these people to obedience HO, and for better success
is incorporated into the mestizos and Indians of the peoples of the Quispicanche province, that
the zeal of the priest D. Loaira Philip, a native and resident the town of Oropesa, recruit their
own will, patenting the most earnest yearning with which was interested in the favorable events
of the King's Arms, governors and serving front of them. Another column of 1,000 men, under Colonel
Dragons army D. Gabriel de Aviles, pass to the nearby village of Muñoz, in order to acquire news
of that country, and to punish those rebels and the Commanding General, with the rest of the
army passed the line that divides the viceroyalty of Lima to Buenos Aires, where he found rebellion
with the greatest fury and cruelty, because Diego Cristoval Tupac-Amaru, its new leader reckless
fearing that whites and mestizos in those provinces as arrestesen with treason, in strength of the
prizes offered for his capture, selected and implemented the barbarian party egecucion flooding
kill indiscriminately to all who were not of their caste, regardless of the age or sex, too punishing
and persecuting the priests and priests of those territories, his half-brother José Gabriel
had been treated with much consideration, and due respect to their sacred character. Uníanse
these misfortunes to a larger one, which was have formed by time, or shortly before, in the
village of Ayoayo, Sicasica province, another monstrous leader of rebellion, more cruel and
bloody than all of its class. This Julian was Apas, Indian poor and unknown, that of sacristan
became a pawn to wit, knowing then take advantage of the troubles raised by Tupac Amaru, helped
another, called Marcelo Street, so Giant became an authority, which ended in his devotion few
days Carangas provinces, Sicasica, Pacajes, Yungas, Omasoyos, Larecaja, Chucuito and others:
and to them that the Indians had more respect and veneration for his person, and should give
but rise to their persuasions, are surnamed Catari Tupac, Tupac coupling the Jose Gabriel and
the surname of Catari, typical of the three Hermon encouraged the first stirrings Chayanta
in the province. This horrific leader will repeatedly remind when it is time to refer the pitiful
events which led to these realms. Let us now troops to the viceroyalty of Lima, and to continue
the series of operations.

Major General continued, D. José del Valle, the marches, as he had thought to enter the jurisdiction
of the Viceroyalty of Buenos Aires: the approach to the Pampa de Quesque, and spent the night,
were seen as 100 rebels, who had the audacity to fire at the vanguard
of the army, with only three rifles, accompanied by repeated this
hostility and broken cries, in saying to our people who were not so
cowardly as those of Ink province, who had just overcome, and then
it was very different esperimentarian the equilibrium and the constancy
of the Indians of the Collao.

When they had to find our army climbed to the top of a very high mountain covered with snow,
where would all the Retiro cattle. Appointed General Commander Don Anthony Calf, Sergeant Major
of the regiment Cuzco, with 80 riflemen to go up to punish his audacity: what this officer
egecutó bizarrely, killing twelve rebels, and removing some horses and sheep that much led the
field, and soon after it was revealed by four prisoners, townspeople Santa Rosa were the most
affectionate partial distinguished the glories of Tupac-Amaru, and who had accompanied him in his
most arduous undertaking, which determined the general punishment, and this attempt is launched
to the people. He entered the army without resistance and encircling the main square suddenly,
took off all who were there to would suffer the death penalty, the punishment of which occurred
in 20, having come about by just provindencia All-Mighty that falls the luck in the most famous
captains and immediate dependents the rebel, as verified later by those who remained alive.
But, however that this decision was as faithful in that village residents will never be approved
similar procedure, but has been supported by the benefits that resulted from having joined
the army, and suffered persecution and perseverance extraordinary subsidies which have made them rebels
continued.

The army continued Orurillo village, where some elderly, and found only a few wives, and asked his deputy
cure, D. Juan Bautista Moran, which was the reason why those neighbors had left their home espresso
had not reached their entreaties and persuasions, to convince them to wait quietly to the arrival
of the troops of the King, they were committed with the greatest obstinacy in refusing obedience,
and follow the flags seditious of rebellion-a procedure that forced the Commanding General to ensure
the capture of a few: and having succeeded in making two prisoners were passed immediately by
the arms and published that would be punished after that town and
its neighbors to the full extent of the war, once stubbornly wanted
to secede from the due obedience to his rightful owner.

Providence, understood by some who were present, they also observed Christian shows that a few
individuals of the army, had the effect of them to go in search of their relatives and friends,
and persuade him to submit submissive, as indeed did so, and in a short time they were coming in packs,
eager to provide the imagination of obedience to the king, vowing henceforth be faithful vassals.
Consequent to the orders that had the Colonel D. Gabriel de Aviles, was already encamped with
his column in the vicinity of Orurillo: that as they pass through Muñoa, ordered attack destamento
by 90 men to a piece of rebels who occupied those high, which were defeated with loss of 150
men killed, which led to having made an obstinate resistance, however, that their total does not
amounted to more than 400, and having learned the 6 May be more than 100 rebels were occupying
some thick walls of an ancient hill called Ceasiri, sent rob and surround, but he caught a little
bit of fire on our side, they saw as 500 enemies, mounted and armed with good spears, rammed to
the our three different parts, with the highest resolution and bravery, but that attacking
the body, was composed of 20 rifle, 80 militants and 600 Indians Chincheros who waited on time,
and little time to achieve victory, defeating the rebels, they left on the battlefield more than
100 people, and our only they were a part sergeant and two Indian cavalry Chincheros, being
wounded the captain and lieutenant Andaguaillas the company. Gathered this column to the army,
continued the path toward Asillo village, which also found entirely abandoned and deserted.
Only cure, D. José Maruri, went out to meet the Commanding General, no closer than four servants,
and told him that all the neighbors had forsaken their rooms and they found troops of the vanguard
that some thought should be submitted to implore pardon rendered of their crimes, and others insisted
that they were to join with the province of Azangaro, to oppose the passage of troops. But shortly
after it was found that the reasons for this church were hidden, produced with the most wicked
malice, and was one of those had attended more to the development of the main rebels, leading
to his neighbors doctrine, to be enlisted under its banners: and not content with having committed
this evil, they had also assisted with his wealth and effects. Commander securely General procedure
so wicked, kidnapping ordered all his papers, and were confirmed the perverse behavior because
it had been followed and found a friendly match with José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, and also with
Diego, who continued the unjust designs his brother, and finding confirmed their heinous crimes
intercepted documents are ordered him bound in a pair of shackles, and referred to the city
of Cuzco, so that resolved view of the Inspector General, D. José Antonio de Areche, was formed
because, or order him to consider imposing the punishment fair. And a warning to those who
disbelieve subjects also provided that D. Gabriel de Aviles come out the same night at the head
of a detachment well reinforced, with the order of the dawn the following day, is at the foot of a
mountain that had been placed to surround, and treat them with all rigor of arms, as indeed
egecutó, killing over 100 and take many mules, horses and spears, without having lost a man of
our side, not have been possible kill them they fled headlong so rough and muddy roads, which
was useless to continue to achieve them.

Continued once a day up our army, and soon after sighted the famous mount time Condocuyo appointed,
where the year of 1740 or made a stubborn 41-Indian defense Azangaro province against its mayor,
D. Alfonso Santa mutineers on complaints Flood deals they had made to those who, not being
able to reduce by force, was seen compelled to encircle and starve. There was this hill crowned
by enemies with flags, boxes and bugles, whose buzz accompanied by repeated and out of tune
vocals, which formed a noisy set so great that it seemed it was occupied by 100,000 men, repeating
incessantly the screams, all aimed to slander and insult our troops. There was also on the plain
considerable number of rebels, who retreated to all diligence to the heights their stores,
furniture and livestock. The beaters rushed to every stroke, contrary to the orders who were,
and so egecutaron abruptly and disunion, the rebels fell on them determinedly, not being able
to defend or liberate the prisoners, led also the deaths of fifteen dragons Lima troops following
them, without it being possible around this sensitive and unfortunate event the forefront, which
sought to stride closer for this purpose.

East and the whole Spanish army of insurgents, and occupied the foot of that mountain of Condorcuyo,
Indians Chincheros Anta and shouted that if he fell to the obedience His Majesty would be
forgiven in good faith, and would restore to their homes peacefully, but they stubborn answered
them boldly, that his object was to go to Cuzco, to give freedom to his idolized Inca, and that
this concept if they go on their way accommodated. It was learned later by some prisoners, who commanded
the rebel camp D. Pedro Vilca-Apas commander appointed by the caudillo Diego Cristoval Tupac-Amaru,
and that the army had all Indians in the provinces of Azangaro and Carabaya.

Well reviewed the situation of the rebels, and that it was useless to reduce them by gentle
means, was determined to attack the next day, the Commanding General ordered dividing his army
into four columns, which stand at different positions, rush to Mountain time, allocating one of
them only in order to turn the enemies and take them in the back, in order that batiese and chasing
fugitives who escape the three others, which was set in motion two hours before the others, and
all the prevention not move until the signal for the attack. Consequent to these caveats, placed
each in the post I had mentioned, and the firing of two cannon shots
started determinedly to rise, and the rebels went to meet with the
same resolution, and before while the fight became general, that the
enemy made a stubborn resistance, aided a few pens that were fortified
since 1741, and then had placed in state of the best defense.

Stationed in them, they managed to repel the army Lieutenant Colonel, D. Manuel Campero, which
at the head of a column of 1,500 men attacked by the left with courage and bravery, but also resisted
the enemy, suffering a high heat his gun, because they were committed to sustain and defend a
very precise step where had to climb. This day our troops credited his tenacity and spirit,
and not a little evidence the rebels, until surpassed by ours, also contributed to the Indians
Chincheros Anta, were evacuated and put to flight, leaving the battlefield more than 600 bodies, unable
to find the number of wounded would be many, because suffered a fire on our side too, in fact
almost always shot at a distance of half rifle

.