 

When it comes to my leaving there is no doubt to the circumstance that there is not enough support in
Curuguati for the animals. In Curuguati there is a need for more things, things such a workers, leaders
and just more animal life. The rare condition of this country will allow for this. With little to eat
they die in a short time, so they need replacement. Without replacement there is no comfort.
By departing from this town, you are acknowledging the need for more utilities. As one departs, they
are expecting the Portuguese to come in their place, but they are not expecting them for twelve more
days. The damage might be rather bad, and I am promising to return. When I tried to address His Excellency
as I had done before his Vice Excellency informed me that His Excellency
did not seem as if he liked my withdrawal from Curuguati, that he
would like for me to change my way of thinking about the situation.

Though he owed me within the provisions set by the Vice Excellency, he still did not like the fact
that I seemed to turn my back on Curuguati after the most recent electronic mail I had received.

I am merely doing what I feel needs to be done. If I have made a mistake in my duties by not waiting
until my retirement orders, I hope the Vice Excellency will back me up and amend my actions in such a way
that causes no injury to the ward.

Hopefully this can save some funds and animals for the exchequer. To everyone else there is no one
else in this province who can do this work with all of the heartiness and conviction that could
compare to my own. I have proposed in my retirement that the animals be given to Curuguati in
leagues of thirty so they can survive. That is the best way for them to survive. I asked for the
VE to defer from an order with the Portuguese Governor of Igatimi for twenty leagues, to withdraw
the agreement. It was a useless agreement. They should have arrived just before the Portuguese,
which was not going to be until next April or May, anyway. If you want to be settle this affair concerning
your efforts at assistance you should send the check to the Governor.
It is he that oversees these matters