 Moreover, the stork had the instinct not to bore, and conferences
always ended quickly and in a sharp, darting suddenly in the air, tracing graceful spirals
in the serene flight of the day out of sight.

He spent the spring, spent the summer, came after the fall, as always, and finally began to appear
in winter. Poldy then had inklings that the stork was about to emigrate and return no doubt
the dream palace, to the eastern city, the temple or the fifth, where
the author dwelt verses.

Irresistible was the temptation he felt to write. Why was there not to do so by style prudent
and decent that did not commit?

Poldy also thought that although it was not unlikely that by operation of the jinn or Fairy or
under mahaturas science, the author of the verses have been achieved clear vision of it, would never
be more than enough to send a good picture of her in photography. In our times does not mean
this very decided favor. Any subject, the most plebeian of fatal, could be bought for a florin Poldy
portrait, exhibited in the windows of many Shops in Vienna, among the beauties of the court
and the theater, including princesses, actresses and dancers. If any ragamuffin Poldy compatriot
could have its image, what audacity or impropriety which would have
to send it through to the wading birds poet incognito I could not
but be a prince, nawab, Brahmin or Kshatriya, back in the land of
Rama and Sita, Nal and Damayanti?

Given these considerations and others in the same order, which are omitted here to avoid prolixity,
Poldy, wrote a long letter, very thin paper to bulge slightly, took a picture yours, without
board, on which picture was very pretty in her low-cut and elegant suit dance, included it
in an envelope with strong backing fabric closed and sealed with wax; wrote above: the unknown
Indian poet, pierced with a punch the card, ran a strong the tape
through the hole, and thus prepared everything, hung it around his
neck as if the stork was the insignia of Commander of any illustrious
Order.

The stork was very still, waiting for Poldy properly secure your neck tape no breaks and that the
letter did not fall.

And just realized that was well decorated, gave a tremendous leap, took flight, soared into
the air and flew with such verve as if the long and steadily India
branch.

Let her go in peace, while we, who are all the secrets, come
on to copy here what I had written Poldy, which was as follows