 We are not surprised at priests and friars, because the
one steals from the poor and another house for his devotees and to help as much, when a poor
slave to love what he did?. And probósele what I say and more, because I with threats, they
asked, and answered as a child, and discovered he knew fear, until some shoes that my mother
pormandado a blacksmith sold. When my stepfather thought hit and Pring, and sorry for my mother
put justice on the usual centenary home that does not enter the aforesaid Commander, or the hurt
in his Zaide accepted.

Not to throw the rope after the bucket, the poor woman went ahead and carried out the sentence
and to avoid danger and away from wagging tongues, she went to serve those who were living at
the inn de la Solana, and there, indignities, was completed to raise my brother until he knew
how to walk and me to be a good little boy who would guests wine and candles and what else
they told me. Finally, no one said getting some passion, then do not said: "Do this, this other,
COSEDE such grass, take that root." ANSI we were going under an arcade in Escalona, ??where at
the time we were in the house of a shoemaker, there were many ropes and other things that are
made of straw, and part of them gave my master head, who, raising
his hand, touched them, and seeing what was said to me:

"Go quickly,
young boy, get out so bad dish from which stifles without eating."

Yo, that it was careless of what I looked what it was, and as I saw
but ropes and webbing, it was not anything to eat, I said to him:

"Uncle,
why do you say that?"

He replied:

"Hush, nephew, according to the tricks that you take, you'll know and see as I speak the truth."

And
thus we went ahead through the portal and arrived at an inn, at the door of which was many
horns on the wall where the Recuero tied their horses.

And if he was tempted Hence the inn, where he prayed every day for the landlady of the walled prayer,
seized a horn with a big sigh and said:

"Or bad thing, worse than you have the making!

Of how you want to put your name on head others and how few have
you not even hear your name, no way!

"

As I heard what he said, said:

"Dude, what's that you say?"

"Hush, my boy, someday you will it, I have that in hand, a bad lunch and dinner."

"Do not eat me," I said and I do not give it. "

"I tell you true, if not, see you, if you live."

And thus we passed on to the door of the inn, where it please God
never arrived, as it happened to me.

And when one of them escaped, God forgive me!, Which thousand times gave the devil, and he who had
died so many blessings from me said. Because the whole time I was there, it would be nearly
six months, only twenty people died, and I really think that I killed
or, rather, died at my request; because seeing the Lord my endless
and death, I was glad to kill you for giving me to my life.

More than this he suffered, was no remedy, if the day we buried I lived on was not dead, to look
good vezado of the fill, making my quotidian starvation rather sorry. So nothing stood out
except death, I also for me and the other wanted some times, but never saw it, but was always
with me. A neighbor said to him:

"In your house I remember that used to hang a snake, and it should be who the culprit. Maldíjeme
a thousand times - God forgive me! - and my bad luck, there most of the night, and (worst) osándome not
stir for not waken, I asked God many times death.

And as I say, he was with them just Macías, telling them more sweet that Ovid wrote. But as they
felt touched him that was fine, they are not ashamed to ask him to lunch with the usual payment.
He, feeling as cold as it was hot stock the stomach, he took it so
chill the color drained from his face, and began to trip over his
tongue to talk and lame excuses.

Them, they should be well instituted, as I felt disease, They left him for that era. For one
morning, getting the sad shirt climbed to the top of the house to make their chores, and as I get
out of suspicion, desenvolvíle doublet and hose to the head left, and found a pack of velvet,
satin fact one hundred fold and no damn white or hobiese signal that had plenty of time.

"This," I said is poor and no one gives what he has not. But the blind and the wretched miser
petty cleric who, with God give to both the one hand and kissed another loose tongue, starved
me, those are just having aquesta unlove and undefiled. "

God knows that today, when I run into any of their habit, with that
step and pump, we I pity to think if you have what it saw him suffer,
even with all its poverty'd still be glad to serve more than the others
by what I said.

Just had of some discontent that I would not be so presumed, rather than down a bit with how
much your fantasy coming up to your need. But it seems to me, and among them is the rule used and
stored, although Trucco not gored, they have to keep the cap in place. The Lord remedy, which
this evil must die. A sad and unfortunate house, the house dark and gloomy, the house where
they never eat or drink! "But his departure was no return. By the afternoon so that they returned,
but was too late.

Treaty Room How Lazaro Went to a monk of the Merced, and what befell him

I had to get the room, and he was a monk of the Merced, which silly
women who tell me headed, whom they called him kin: great enemy of
the choir and eating in the monastery, lost to go out, lay amicísimo
business and visit, so I think it broke he more shoes than the whole
monastery.

He gave me the first shoes I broke in my life But you never lasted eight days, and I was able
to outlast his trot. And because of this and other stuff I do not say, I left.

Fifth Treaty How Lazaro Went to a Pardoner, and the things that he spent

In the fifth by my good fortune gave, which was a Pardoner, the more brash and desvengonzado and
more caster indulgences that I ever saw or hope to see or do not think anyone saw, because he
and seeking ways and means and very crafty inventions.

In coming to a place where the bull had to submit, first presented
to the clergy or cure some things, not of much value or not: some
lettuce from Murcia, where were in season, a couple of limes or oranges,
peach, a couple of peaches, each path verdiniales pears.

ANSI tried them over because they promote their business and call his parishioners to take the
bull.

Provide him thank him, find out how well of reach. If they said they understood, spoke no Latin
word for they could not trip, but took advantage of a gentle and well-cut desenvoltísima romance
language. And if he saw that these clerics were among the reverend say that they bought it with
letters and reverend is ordered, he turned into a St. Thomas and
two hours talking in Latin, at least, it seemed but it was not.

When they would not taking the bulls, looking for what might take them for evil, and to what
had discomfort to people and other times with crafty artifice. And because all you see would
make a long story, tell a very crafty and diverting, with which it will prove its sufficiency.

Somewhere
in the Sagra of Toledo had preached two or three days, doing his usual errands, and had not taken
bull, I could not see had any intention of taking. Was given swore up and wondering what to do, he
decided to call the people to another morning so he's bull.

And that night, after dinner, they stood to play the collation he and the constable, and the game
came to fight and have bad words. He called the constable a thief, and the other to him liar. On this,
Mr. Commissioner my lord took a pike in the door of the play was. The sheriff drew his sword in his
side.

Noise and voices and all we, guests and neighbors come and métense in the middle, and procured
them very angry rid of that half were to be killed. But as people at all the noise the house was
full of them, seeing that they could not use weapons, they began to call injurious, including
the sheriff said it was my master forger and the bulls who preached
were false.

Finally, that the people, not enough to see that putting it in peace, agreed to take the sheriff
of the inn and elsewhere.

And so my master was very angry, and after the guests and neighbors pleaded with him to forget
about it and go to sleep, he left. And so we lay all.

The next morning my master went to the church and told to ring for mass and for fire sermon the
bull. And the people gathered, the muttering about the pardons, saying they were forgeries and
that the constable himself quarreling had discovered, so that after they had reluctantly of
tomalla, with that of all the hated.

The Lord went up to the pulpit and began his sermon, and encourage people to not remain without
the blessings and forgiveness as the holy bull brought. Being in the sermon, go by the church
door the sheriff and, after praying he got, got up and loudly and deliberate wisely began
to say:

"Good men, let me say a word, then listen to whoever you please."

I came here this swindler who preaches, who cheated and said that helped him in his business and
to split the profits.

And now, seeing the damage it would do to my conscience and your haciendas, regretting what
was done, I clearly stated that the bulls are preaching false and did not believe him nor
toméis, and I'm not direct or indirect part in them, and from agora leave the rod and give
her in the ground, and if some time it is punished for falsehood, that ye be witnesses to me as I
am not with him and I give this help, you the truth and declare his wickedness. "

And he finished his speech. Some honest men who were there wanted to raise and throw the constable
out of church, to avoid scandal. But my master stopped them hand and ordered all under penalty of
excommunication not in your way, rather than let him say everything he wanted. And thus, he
too was silent, while the sheriff said everything I said.

As silent, my master asked if I wanted to say more, say it. The sheriff said:

"Fed is more to say about you and your dirty, but enough for now."

Mr. Commissioner knelt in the pulpit, and his hands and looked up
to heaven said thus:

"Lord God, to Whom nothing is hidden and everything
manifest, for whom nothing is impossible, everything is possible,
you know the truth and how I have been accused unjustly.

In As for myself, I forgive you because you, Lord, forgive me.

Do not look at anyone who does not know what he says or does, but
the injury done to Thee, I pray, I pray for justice and not disregard
it Because someone here, that thinking of taking this holy bull, giving
credit the false words of the man, they will not take.

And it is so harmful to others, I beg you, Lord, do not disregard
it, but a miracle here, and it thus: if it is true what it says and
bring evil and falsehood, this pulpit to sink me and meta hundred
feet into the ground, where he and I ever be seen again.

And if it's true what I say, he, won over by the devil to remove and deprive those who are present
as great good, speaks evil, is also known punished and all his malice. "

He had hardly finished his prayer devout sir, when the black sheriff of the state falls and gives
such a blow on the ground that resounded throughout the church, and
began to howl and throw foaming at the mouth and twist it and make
grimaces with the gesture, kicking and hand, rolling around on the
floor and another part.

The shouts and cries of the people was so great that could not hear each other. Some were really
terrified. Some said

"The worth God help him."

Others:

"It serves him right, it stirred up such false testimony."

Finally, some who were there, and in my opinion not really afraid,
they came and locked him arms, with which he'd been thrashing those
who were near him.

Others rushed by the legs and had a hard time because there was no mule in the world so hard Pulling
kick. And so I had a great time, because more than fifteen men were upon him, and hit them all,
and if neglected, in their noses.

By the way, my master was in the pulpit on his knees, hands and eyes in the sky, carried in
the divine essence, that the plant and noise and voices in the church had no part in apartalle
of divine contemplation.

Those good men went to him and woke him up crying and begged him aid the poor man was dying, and
not to look at things past nor to his bad, because as them had to pay, but if anything could take
that man out of danger passion and suffering, for God's sake do so, because it was obvious
the guilt of the guilty and his truth and goodness, as to your request and vengeance, the Lord
did not prolong the punishment.

Mr. Commissioner, as if waking from a sweet dream, looked and looked
at the offender and all those who were her surrounding, and very slowly
he said:

"Good men, you do habíades to pray for a man in whom God
has so signally noted, but as he commands us not to return evil for
evil and forgive injuries, with confidence we beg you to do what he
commands us, and His Majesty forgive it offended you by putting obstacles
in their holy faith.

Let's all suplicalle. "

And so it came down the pulpit and instructed to devoutly beseeching our Lord had for good to
forgive the sinner, and get back on their health and sanity, and releasing the devil, if His Majesty
had allowed for his great sin he entered. They all got down knees, and before the altar with
the clergy began to softly chant a litany. And coming him with the cross and holy water, having
sung about him, my master, put their hands to heaven and eyes that seemed almost nothing but a
little white, begins a sentence no less long than devout, with which
he mourn all the people as often Hazer in the sermons of Passion,
a preacher and devoted audience, pleading with our Lord, it was not
the death of the sinner, but his life and repentance, that he aimed
persuaded by the devil and death and sin, he wanted to forgive and
give life and health to repent and confess their sins.

And this fact, he ordered the bull and putting it on the head, and then the sinner of a constable
gradually began to get better and turn itself.

And when he was back in his, and fell at the foot of the Commissioner and demandóle forgiveness,
and admitted that the mouth that and command of the devil, an injury done to him anger and revenge,
the other, more primary because the devil would really be hurt the good that could be made
to take the bull. Mr. My master forgave him, and friendships were made between them, and take
the bull was so haste, almost a living soul in the place was not without it: husbands and wives,
sons and daughters boys and girls.

Divulgóse the news of what happened in the neighboring towns, and when we got to them, did not
give a sermon or go to church, came to the inn to take like pears to make themselves freely. So in
ten or twelve more of those alderredor Wherever we went, my master threw a good thousand indulgences
without preaching a sermon.

When he did the test, I confess my sin that I was also shocked and thought dello ANSI was, like
many others, but after seeing the laughter and fun that my master and the officer had and
doing business, it had all been met by the industrious and inventive my master. {Acaeciónos elsewhere,
which I will not name in his honor, the following, and my master was two or three sermons preached
and God do the bull took. Seen by the Case my master what had happened and that, although he said
were wary of a year, and were not taking advantage as rebels take
it and that his work was lost, he rang the bells to say goodbye. And
made his sermon and fired from the pulpit, and we wanted down, called
the clerk and me, who was charged with a wallet, and Hizon reach the
first step, and took the sheriff the hands that had and had not in
the bags, put them near his feet, and it became a place in the pulpit
with a happy face and throw from there, tens and twenties in twenty
of his bulls to all parties, saying:

"My brethren, take, take of
the graces God sends you to your homes, and do not hurts, it is so
pious work the redemption of Christian captives which are land Moors.
Because they do not renege on our holy faith and go to the pains of
hell, even Help them with your charity and five paternosters and five
Hail Marys, to come out of captivity. And yet also take advantage
for the parents and brothers and relatives you have in Purgatory,
as you will see in this holy bull. 