 It was so long he did not think in those places! It was like Flash greeting,
and oddly enough, by a sudden flashback to so far remembered impressions the most austere and
soothing my country life. I saw her long Villanueva line of white houses, slightly higher than
the sides. Smoking roofs, its countryside overshadowed by the winter, its red plum groves
by the frost, along icy roads. With the clarity of an overwrought imagination to the extraordinary,
in a few minutes I had the quick perception of all that had surrounded my first charms childhood.
Everywhere that I had exhausted turmoil was only unchanging peace. Everything was gentle and quiet
in what once caused the first shocks of my mind. "What a change!" Thought and under the glow
of which was burned, was cooler ever the source of my first affections.

The heart is such a coward, has less need to rest for a moment left
to me hope, as chimerical as all others, the absolute removal of Trembles
in my house.

No one around me, full years of solitude, comfort insurance, my books, a landscape worship
and work, all things unattainable, and yet, this hypothesis was the sweet and quiet was a little
stroking.

Finally sounded the early hours of the morning.

Two clocks repeated them together, almost unison, as if the strokes of the second were immediately
echoed those of the first: they were the the seminar and the school. This sudden call to the
realities of the day derisory following my pain crushed under a sense of smallness, and he
caught me in the middle of despair a stroke of splint.

VIII

"Surely it is necessary that you have suffered a lot - I wrote
Augustine, replying to very exalted declamations that went a few days
after the departure of Magdalena and husband - but why?

By whom? I continue to propose questions that you never want solve. You hear in the vibration
of something close to emotional well-known, well-defined only, without resemblance to others
for whom the experience, but is this thing that has no name in his letters to you and makes me
pity rather than as loosely as you regrets. And that's not what I'd do. Nothing is painful to me - now
you know - when you it is, and you are in a state of heart or spirit, which demands more active
and more effective than mere words, however sympathetic they may be. Should you need advice.
Doctor's me little stem, are evils which I mean coma suffering you. However, I will suggest a
treatment that applies to everything, including diseases of imagination, I know very badly hygiene.
Methinks that would be good use of ideas fair, logical sentiments, affections possible, in
short, judicious use of forces and activities of life. Life, believe me, that is the heroic
relief of all suffering whose base is a mistake. The day you put your foot on the path of life,
but real life understand each other, the day that you know well, with their laws, their needs,
their hardships, their duties and their chains, their hardships and sorrows, their real pain and
its charms, You'll see how she is healthy, beautiful, strong and fruitful under his own accuracy. As
for your recommendation of attending. I will visit lords gladly Nièvre because it gives me the
opportunity to take care of you with friends who I suppose are not unusual I deplore the unrest.
Rest assured: I have also the largest of the reasons for be discreet: do not know anything. "

* * *

A little later I wrote again:

"I saw the lady of Nièvre - told me - and has been pleased to consider
me as of the best friends of yours.

On that occasion he told me things that I show caring he loves you
very much, but not very well known.

However, if the mutual friendship not a party to give perfect knowledge of each other, must have
been because you and not her, it being understood that this does not prove you wrong manifest
half: the most I can think is that if this has done has been because he wanted to. This reasoning
leads me to conclusions that disturb me. Yet once more, my dear Sunday life, what possible reason
... I beg, do not believe you to identify things that reasonable as an enemy of the good, because
it is inseparable friend of justice and truth. "

* * *

I realize some of the tips that Augustine gave me, without knowing
exactly what apply, but guessing.

As for Oliver, the day following the night that would obviate many statements at the same time that Madeleine
and her husband departed in the direction of Paris, came into my room.

- "He left already? - I asked him just saw him.

- Yes - I answered, - but again, it's almost my sister, you're more than my friend, must foresee
everything.

Would continue, but the sorry state of depression when I was disarmed
him, no doubt and urged him to postpone his explanations.

- But in
the end, we'll talk about it - just said.

Then he pulled out his watch and saw that they were as close as eight, added:

- Hey, Sunday, go to school! It's the wisest thing we can do.

It had to happen that neither Augustine's advice and the warnings of Oliver prevail against
an irresistible trend, drawn, too powerful to be restrained by reasoning or warnings. Comprehending
imitated me: I expected my rescue or permanent loss, last recourse left to men without will
exhaust all the combinations when imaginable: the unknown.

Augustine wrote to me once or twice giving me news of Madeleine: he had gone to visit property, near
Paris, where Mr. De Nièvre intended to pass the summer. It was a beautiful castle in a forest,
"the most romantic town house, for a woman that perhaps share with you, your way, the yearnings
of the field and hobbies of their own. "

For his part wrote to Julia Magdalena, no doubt with fraternal expansions that did not reach to me.
Once, during those months of absence, I received a brief letter from
him telling me Augustine.

I appreciated the fact habérselo know and told me the good opinion of him had formed: it was all
will, all righteousness, all noble energy, and gave me to understand that separate needs of the heart,
never find anyone better or firmer support. At that same letter, signed with his name any more, send
me fond memories of her husband.

Not return until the holiday season, just days before the date of the distribution of awards last
act of my life dependent emancipated me.

I would have liked more, you understand, that Madeleine did not attend that ceremony. Many disparities
in me, my student status was ridiculous disagreement with my moral disposition, as a further
humiliation avoided any developments that could remind to both those contrasts. For some time my susceptibility,
point to them, had become very grave. It was - as I said - the point of view less noble and
less admissible my pains, and if I over it is because of an incident that stiffened again my vanity
and it will reveal a detail the unique irony of the situation.

The ceremony was verified in an old abandoned chapel since it was just long open and decorated
every year for that object. The aforementioned chapel was located in the bottom of the main
courtyard of the school, it was reached by walking through, the double row whose abundant
lime green a bit glad that sad ride. From afar I saw enter Magdalena in the company of several
young women friends, all summer clothes colored and open umbrellas on which sported the light
of sun and shade leaves of trees. Fine dust raised by the motion of the foot like the accompanying
a slight cloud and the heat, the tips of branches and yellow, fell around them mature leaves and
flowers and hooked into the long muslin shawl that Magdalene was involved. But smiling, happy,
face, animated by the motion and turned to look curiously our school
battalion formed in two rows and keeping the line as young recruits.

All womanly curiosity, and those on However, projected into me and felt like so many burns. It was
the middle August and the weather was gorgeous. The birds had fled the family trees and chirping
on the roof where the sun was vibrating. Crowd murmurs broke the long silence twelve months,
extraordinary joys dilate the face of the old school, the limes so perfumed with wild aromas.
Much would have to be free and happy!

The preliminaries were very long and I counted the minutes that still separated me from my freedom.
Finally came the signal. A title of laureate was called the first philosophy. I went to stage
and when I had my crown in one hand, the other a thick volume, standing next to stairway, face to
face public clapped eyes sought Mrs. Ceyssac; the first look I found with my aunt, the first
friendly face I recognized, precisely below me in the front row, was the Magdalena. Did you
experience it a little too seeing confusion in that horribly awkward attitude I try to paint
you? Impact on it "I dominated shrink? Have you had your friendship to me laughable or just guessing
who suffered? What were, precisely, their feelings during the quick caustic test but appeared
to reach them both at the same time and in the same direction? I do not know. But she got very
red and raised her blush when he saw I was down and I toward them.

And when my aunt, after giving me a kiss, handed my crown inviting to congratulate me, completely
taken aback. I'm not quite sure what I was told to testify I experienced
great satisfaction and congratulated me on the terms that are commonly
used.

His hand trembled slightly. I think he tried to say: "I am proud, my dear Sunday 'or "Okay."

He watched her eyes a tear, "was of concern, compassion or just unintended effect shock of
young shy? Who knows! Many times I've wondered without accomplishment.

We left. I threw my crowns in the courtyard of the classroom through
the door before last time.

Even his eyes back again soon to break with a past that exasperated
me.

And if I could get rid of my memories of school as fast as I stripped uniform, it would have
probably at that time, an unparalleled sense of independence and virility.

- And now - I asked my aunt a few hours later - what do you do?

- Now? - I replied .-- I do not really know.

And telling the truth, because the uncertainty that dominated me embracing everything from the
choice a career that she wanted it to be brilliant, to the use of much of my ardent desires,
something that did not.

He was convinced that Madeleine would be first to settle in Nièvre and then return to Paris
to end the winter. We were supposed to move directly to that city, so that she would find us and
find work in the form and manner that we choose, but under the special direction of Augustine.
Travel arrangements and those wise projects we occupied a part of the holiday, but the quality of
work, the end we should pursue, vague program that the first article
was not yet formulated, were Full points for Oliver indefinite same
for me.

From the day of my freedom had forgotten all my years of school; is
the only time in my life that left me cold soul, the mere memory of
me that no made me happy.

As for the future, I thought in Paris with the fear that is inherently
confusing to anticipated, inevitable, but little smiling always be
well known too soon.

Oliverio, with great surprise on my part, did not show the slightest setback to the idea of ??moving
away from Ormesson.

- Today - calmly told me a few days before our departure - and I have nothing to keep me here.

"No
sooner had exhausted all the joy?

IX

We entered Paris by night.

But even if we had come at another time, would always result later. It was raining and very
cold.

At first I just saw muddy streets, sidewalks wet it glistened in the glow of lights stores, the
continued rapid flashing of the vehicles crossing, splashing mud,
a myriad of sparkling lights, and lighting without symmetry in long
avenues formed black homes whose height seemed prodigious.

I remember the smell hit me gas denounced a city where night life
was the same as the day, and pale of the faces looked exactly like
the sick.

I recognized that shade the Oliver and understood better than before I had a different origin.

At
one point I opened my window to better hear strange noise that echoed in that people so full of
life below and whose heights were already plunged into the night,
I saw the narrow street, two rows of people carrying torches in their
hands, escorting a row of lanterns shining carriages, pulled by four
horses all marching almost at a gallop.

- Watch soon - Oliver told
me - is king.

Dimly I saw reflections of light on leaves helmets and swords, and
the parade of armed men and horses shod, echoed briefly on the pavement
with metallic echo, then lost more and less noticeable noise in the
fog light of torches.

Oliver noted the address carried by the carriages and then the latter had disappeared, said, revealing
the satisfaction of a man who knows his Paris and finds him returning
As always:

- Yes, the king goes to the Italians tonight.

And despite the rain and cold of the night, still remained some time
bending over tingling of strangers that passed quickly, constantly
renewed and who seemed compelling interests that ran contrary towards
objects.

- Are you happy? - I asked.

Launched a mighty sigh as if the contact of her extraordinary life
that had filled excessive aspirations suddenly and said, without answering:

-
And you?

Then, without waiting for my reply, he continued:

- Ah,
gee