 The prodigal dissipated their wealth in the pleasures and
the ostentation, but soon found an avenger of his ravings in poverty ragged and hungry, which
imposes deprivation rather than enjoyment, rather than luxurious ostentation shortage shameful.
The greedy treasure accumulated fearing poverty and suffering through his riches the rigors
of that poverty that so terrifies him: he condemns himself to all, with limited food and rude,
dirty and threadbare suit, his small room, uncomfortable and untidy. No adventure nothing to
lose nothing; distrust even more people will love, in silence and darkness of the night visit
his treasure buried in mysterious places, to ensure that the treasure is there, and to increase
it further, and meanwhile it stalks one of his servants or neighbors, and the treasure accumulated
so eagerly, so caution hidden away.

In the deal, in literature, the arts, the excessive desire to please produce discomfort; the
eagerness to offer exquisite things too annoying: the ridiculous is next to the sublime; the
sensitivity is not far from the sickly, the itch to offer symmetrical frames, often leads contrast
to disparate.

In the government of society, the abuse of power brings ruin, and the abuse of freedom gives rise
to slavery. The people who want to overextend their borders, is often narrower than required by
the natural, the conqueror who is determined to earn crown on his head, eventually losing
all, who is not satisfied with the vast domain empires, will be consumed in a solitary rock in the
vastness of the ocean. Of those who aspire supreme power, most found the proscription or the
scaffold. Covet castle of a monarch, and lose the domestic hearth,
dream on a throne and find a gallows.

ยง XXXIV.

Observations on the advantages and disadvantages of virtue in business.

God has not left defenseless its laws, he has shielded all the just punishment, punishment which usually
is experienced in this life. For this reason the calculations based
on the interest in opposition to morality, are heavily exposed to
failed out, entangling the immorality in their own bonds. But do not
think that with this I want to deny that man virtuoso is found often
in extremely disadvantageous position to compete with an opponent
immoral