 In a woman are the items most in honor honesty and modesty, in
a man's understanding and value. Hence, to most religious girl and moral, instead of showing disgust
for the future when we foresee that the man was now called good fortune, gets excited, infatuated
or passion is more for him.

The witness such good fortune for her leading man of merit who is beloved; provide greater value
to the lover is in love with her, because that is preferred among many who would pay or had already
surrendered, and even looks like he gives her a mission moralizing and flattering high, namely
that of her lover away, under higher and purer attractive, the way something was missing before,
to give retirement in their use of seductive and playful, and rendered harmless, quiet and
thoughtful parent.

Good manners, the rigid laws of decorum, which are designated with the name or phrase French
social conventions, do not permit a gallant boast of his past conquests to the honest woman who
seeks or who already love and own, but these gains, not disclosed by him and known for her extraordinary
contribution to her love point rise. Having been happy in love is
and has always been for man the most effective seduction.

And this from the heroic and early today.

When those not vedaban social conventions, the gallants always used as action to perform and
captivate hearts, recounting their past and happy affair. Homer who knew or guessed all, tells
us that being found in the Gargarus Jupiter, which is the highest peak of Ida, Juno went to
see the hidden Venus belt, which belt are all of the love spells that steal the wisdom to men
more circumspect and reasonable. Jupiter, then, to see Juno, let himself be overcome by the strength
of those spells; requesting it in the strongest love, and found no better way to submit to
his purpose and I want to quote all the antics and amorous sets, ensuring that none of them,
nor Danae, nor with Leda, nor Europe, nor with the other princesses and nymphs had seduced, he had
never felt so excited, if I may curse, like that occasion. Nothing, indeed, could flatter
more than Juno Jupiter say she had more power than others to get
excited.

Some of this, because the heart is the same as always, took place
in Dona Luz, without that D. Jaime bring to mind his past conquests,
imitating the shameless patriarchal the son of Saturn.

I knew Luz D. Jaime had been adored in Madrid, and, seeing him so charmed, so tired and so loving
and humble, filled with proud complacency, judging thousand times more beloved that all their
old rivals. To complete your satisfaction, was also a defining Dona Luz critical about this business,
which rarely fail to make the women of their status and in their circumstances. D. Love Jaime
by the other women had been profane and sinful; that she had was virtuous and holy, for the
other was born of caprice, vanity, of lost youth or other unlawful passions, for she was born
the love of D. Jaime's highest and purest source of the soul, which, with its beneficent power, was
purified the heart of his friend, erasing all traces of him and all stain of past sins and letting
cleaner than gold.

All this holiness and intimate cleansing work was nothing short of miraculous Love superhuman
Dona Luz and purifying fire of his eyes.

There are hardly any women yeast that is, who dares to tell anyone
here that says; but most of them, when in the position of Dona Luz,
feel and believe a foot-face value, even if I remain silent for fear
of ridicule of unbelievers and profane miscreants.

All stemmed from something like intoxication of happiness for Dona Luz. His D. James seemed
to him a God, but a God who adored her and had to live always surrendered
to his feet.

Dona Luz hence annihilate their will and as embedded in D. Jaime, yielding to everything he
wanted.

Luz gave the commitment to stay and live in Villafría and agreed to continue after Madrid to
his friend.

Also flattered and embarrassed by the rich presents he had given him,
also wanted have one, and gave her husband had saved 30,000 reais,
despite the many alms and charity work he did.

With these 30,000 rs. that D. James, though he resisted had to agree to not offend, than to
spend part in furnishing the house, ordered Mrs. D. Light deliver him Jaime in Madrid the title
of Marquise. What I never wanted when willed single now so that her husband was the Marquis, and
she and he sealed with his own title and label, judging that this would make it more yours.

Don Jaime, who until then had lived in Madrid modestly in a small, single, I did not want to take
his wife to an inn, or lodge it wrong at first, and, according to Dona Light, decided to go
to London alone, for Congress also called him urgently, to house but economically, as Dona
Luz full of trial recommended it, and then that had set, again by Mrs. Light Villafría.

The plan was that Dona Luz D. Jaime.

Much he regretted being separated from her husband, even for a very short time, but she had great
charm for which D. Jaime same prepare to taste the house where he was to receive, and where
she intended to live with modesty and without frequent trips, theaters and social gatherings,
not to be burdensome spending. And no less the loved, not for her, that it was not vanity, but
by her husband, who, when she appeared in Madrid, the title was taken, and could call Marquise.

In
sum, on the twelfth day of marriage, during which Dona Luz blind
to everything around her, just saw or spoke more than a D. Jaime,
this one, filled with hugs and caresses, trying wipe the tears she
shed tender Dona Luz, and showing himself very moved, Villafría left
for Madrid, leaving Dona Luz alone in his ancient and noble mansion,
where, as is already indicated, had she done to move all the furniture,
workmanship and books, home of D. Acisclo had decorated his room before
the wedding.

-XVIII-

Glorious Transit

In the absence of D. Jaime,
who should not last more than a month, Dona Luz was something melancholy
sweet but melancholy, but with more freedom and calm to return to
their former friends, at times when that alone is not recreated with
the memories of the absentee owner.

Luz had lived as if in ecstasy, and now he came to, and not just thinking of his love and tasted all his
fortune, taking them back quietly to the imagination, but I felt, as people usually feel all happy
to be judged, the need for expansion and itching to be polite, as
if to be forgiving rather than possessed, well, that, be so little
and so rare on earth, it always seems that at the expense of someone
to watch.

This is the home coterie D. Acisclo was reborn, moving to Dona Luz.

The intimate attended her every night, namely, Don Acisclo, D. Anselmo,
the priest, Pepe Güeto, his wife and P. Enrique.

The last animation also revived the party.

Don Anselmo, excited, turned to unwrap its doctrines of positivism, and the Father, yielding to
the request of Mrs. Light and her friend again discussed with his usual sweetness, peace and quiet.

Fr
Enrique and was paler or thinner, or more down than before.

In her voice was not noticed never the slightest alteration, no violent or troubled in his manner
or gesture.

Luz used to look at him, and even examine, with restlessness and deceit, and not finding the shortest
symptom of the passion that sometimes had assumed it was calm and happy, discarding all suspicion,
but with a subtle and barely perceptible self-mortification. It seems that Dona Luz tried to cover
his ears inside your soul, and that despite this, sometimes heard
a deep voice, thin and sharp, the Zaheri, saying:

"Could've been
so vain you've imagined that I loved this blessed servant God?

Is not it ridiculous that you have tormented pure smug, calculating the damage a bad involuntary
supposed to have done? Do not fear the devil laugh at you, and God also laugh, if God be laughing
when they look into the interior of your consciousness and see you how flattered at the same
time you scared the invention fatua were going to kill love and jealous of this poor monk? Look
what is unmoved. Kid yourself: he thinks in his devotions, in his books, in their studies, writing
works and cares nothing for you you're married or single. Good castle smoke up your pride! A curious
legend of romantic love and despair in your innermost being forged, there! ".

Doña Luz, on hearing this evil voice, which was no doubt voice from
hell, I was afraid that weigh that love of Father Henry and his jealousy
and despair were illusory.

For this, Mrs. Light was good, and was also energetic and spirited will, and soon imposed voice
and silence to appease the embarrassment in her chest voice and caused uproar.

The healthiest and most reasonable thing was to make sure that the Father had not thought she
would never but as you think of a favorite neighbor, and this was
her heart rejoice, and that it was happy.

Luz therefore wanted on the outside, in their relations with the Father, in his conversations
and deal with him, no novelty was introduced.

Any further prosecution seemed that had previously There was a feeling that she had illicit removed from
your soul, and, if it existed in the father, was illegal and ugly.

Dona Luz could both this idea, that almost never end their show of
affection and fondness to the P. Enrique.

He took her hand, she looked with inexpressible tenderness, enraptured smiled, applauded him as
less than divine judgments about all his sentences, and sought his conversation and charmed with her.

The Father had the rare gift of seeing evil in the depths of our hearts,
and saw in Dona Light, and, warned by his disappointment, he knew
the loving worthless all those shows had.

But just the sweetness of shows like the thought of his stubborn and wrong I love smashing
paid chest.

What do we know if it was from pride or of Christian virtue, or both simultaneously, since
in the spirit of man sometimes mix and match the good and bad instincts and good and bad angels
fighting, motivated by reasons found, and plotting, however, the
same end?

The truth is that neither in a complaint, or a sigh or a look, or a word, that would subtly interpreted,
never revealed the Father Enrique, or left glimpse of the curious and eager eyes of Dona Luz storm
hidden in the center of your soul.

Do not go to the gathering as to where he had gone, and leave the place or the Philippines or
other any country, just married Dona Luz, seemed to Father miserable
weakness and public confession his passion crime.

Imagined that, by withdrawing all or absconding, was giving scandal would have us believe that
until there maybe no one had thought.

The father was embarrassed no one, live it, were to guess his profane love, but nobody had more
shame Dona Luz.

"Let me die, my God, I die - he said - before she knows that I loved, still I love her. "

To accomplish this, the Father himself insisted most excruciating struggle. More control was
needed on the natural condition to win in this fight than the Spartan that without releasing
a tear and without launching a whimper tear the body was left by
the claws of a beast.

Or anger, no envy, no jealousy, no love was proposed show P. Enrique, but fine and unalterable
friendship as usual. And he did so, that Dona Luz finally rid of all suspected that the father had
ever loved. Then he died for those affected tried to come our being by the senses as inaccessible
to believe him does not go directly to God spirit. So better explanation, deferring to his vanity,
that the Father had loved.

Dona Luz also understand that back in his thinking had offended the Father, imaginándosele
love. And so for relief, for the admiration his impassive than caused him, and by the ever
stronger conviction that would not fall in love, do what so, got carried away by his love of
lavish niceties and give more flattering tests profound friendship.

The spirit is strong and suffers everything, but our body is weak, and the spirit that contained it
undertakes business inhuman forces over the body, eventually killing him.

Back in his youth, when he was healthy and robust, the Father had done great penance and was hard
and terrible to his poor body. Later, tired and quebrantadísimo by their work, gave the advice
and mandate of physicians and confessors, and was careful and not abused. The idea that the
excesses of the ascetic life were like a slow and painful suicide and that bordering on perversion
distort and destroy in us the most beautiful work of the Almighty, this being and this way the
soul is clothed in the earth, and that the same Holy Scriptures Temple of the Holy Spirit,
had come to the Father's mind, moving you to withdraw mortifications materials.

Father since then looked after his body and takes care of the slave of a garment, a machine that his
master trusts, so that using it will make the farm thrive.

The that this way of thinking might have dissipated as proud as the Father, giving in mind
that at all God needed him for anything, that its being worth no more than any other man, but
God had created for something and not to be destroyed, destroyed as was violating a divine
law, embarrass, or seeking to disturb the harmonious whole of things, and distract violently
a living force of action points that nature I have checked.

Bowing to all these considerations, P. Henry looking for his health
and his life, holding an orderly regime and good.

Not materially hurt, not long ago plagued with fasting, sackcloth and enforced vigils, but
in this mysterious fighter who ventured in this silence and dissimulation, in this seeming impassive
adopted in this tyrannical rule that wanted to impose their anguished spirit and ordered the
body that leave no betray their pain or in sighs, nor tears, nor even a contraction of the muscles
of the face, came up with the father, perhaps inadvertently, the scariest of the martyrs, the
true revenge, punishing rough his fault, if fault there.

The athlete in the escape of the more spirited drills, the warrior as the most fierce quarrels
battle, supported by the enthusiasm and nervous excitement, do not
feel their fatigue nor do they bow.

The prostration does not come until after the victory. The soldier Marathon is not dead until
he fell to the Athenians the news of the victory. No other kind Fr Henry maintained his role
beautifully, while Donna was in the presence of Light or in the presence of another person either.
But in the removal of his room, as if to loosen the springs that had their nerves in perpetual
tension, would fall faint.

Mal drowned sighs coming from his chest, which was painful oppression,
had dizziness, vision is clouded, he slept in them felt fingers or
cramps, unusual cold Images and which he kept his memory writhed in
confusion, she had a headache and even gets tongue and stuttered when
he spoke to Ramon, his servant.

Repeated attacks of this kind was the P. Enrique, always in the solitude of his room. The father
had some medical knowledge, and he himself was cured with the help
of his servant.

Already had put mustard plasters, and to give strong friction, and applied to the nose some grass by
virtue of which caused a slight issue of blood, covered his head with a cloth dipped in cold
water.

When relieved of his illness he never failed to say to Ramon:

- This has not been anything. Shut up and do not tell anyone I've been sick.

- Well done, my master, replied the servant.

So, one morning, which was the tenth day after the departure of D.
Jaime, Father Henry had an attack stronger than before.

That night, he told after Ramon, the father had not slept, had been greatest disquietude. Ramon had
been walking with long strides across the room.

He had come on tiptoe not angry that you spy, and had been writing.

Then he had gone to notice who walked in the room.

The father fell asleep finally, but with a dream that scared enough
his faithful servant weary dream, accompanied by a hum or whistle
a way to rattle.

His face was haggard and pale and haggard that ordinarily.

Ramon, however, had such respect to the orders of his master was,
who did not dare to call doctor.

Did not dare to wake up to the Father.

This aroused enough, but his awakening was tremendous.

He was still the face muscles; paralyzed tongue could not utter a
word, the look uncertain, and tips rigid body and cold as marble.

Ramon, desolate and full of terror, he sought D. D. Anselmo and called Acisclo for to accompany
his nephew.

Don Anselmo came soon, and just saw and inspected the patient showed
in his face shocked care that inspired him.

- Sea V. Franco, D. Anselmo
- said Don Acisclo -: What is my nephew?

- It is a very serious case
- the doctor said sadly.

- How is it possible?

Who would believe it - said Don Acisclo - when yesterday was so good?

- You did not believe him because he saw the evil that killed him inside. His nephew V. is been
sick and know to hide.

Wish I had not concealed so much and we could get time!

- What,
understands V. not it about time?

- Mr D. Acisclo, you want the heart
to his nephew, but you are courageous and whole soul. What rodeos?
It is necessary that you know V. everything. The Father is in the
greatest danger.

- What condition is yours?

- A rare disease more
robust than in blood, in the weak and sickly, and, the same, in these
much more dangerous. Perhaps regular intellectual work, atrocious
dislikes prolonged vigils, the agitation of the soul and fire severely
restrained the tablet passions, act mysteriously in our bodies and
promote the explosion: the heart swells, becomes an unhealthy and
irregular forces, and suddenly floods the brain with blood.

- What
do you want mean by that?

- I mean that your nephew has a fulminant
apoplexy. 

Don Acisclo, who loved his nephew, who was regarded as
the complement of the glory of his family, he was the other addition,
had a sincere and deep pain, and encouraged with prayers and laments
the zeal of the physician.

He did not need this stimulus