 The poor lady was shortened and had only encouragement
to finish with a lower voice

--... At least, that happens to me ...

- And it happens to everyone who has a heart frank, lady - Obdulia
said impetuously.

- Only the envious, the malicious know gild the
poison pill and stick the dagger when it seems they are doing a caress.

The

voice of the young left upset, a little hoarse.

D. Narciso malignant chuckled and said with ironic emphasis:

- Look at how many things known about moral theology Miss! Doctor will have to declare of the
Church, and Santa Teresa.

- Wow, not bad that! Jo! Jo!

So Doctor of the Church! Jo! Jo! ... But what perverse is this D. Narciso! Jo! Jo! Jo! ... Much
D. Narciso!

- Do not laugh so loud, D. Melchor, who can jump the teeth - said the young, whose eyes came
a flash of anger.

Fr Melchor suddenly stopped laughing. The cleric, aged thirty-five to forty , tall, with regular
features, large dark eyes expressionless, and sad figure descuadernada,
boasted, according to public voice, handsome, just as intelligent,
evil, illustrated, etc., etc. Obdulia phrase made a terrible effect,
because I imagined that what the denture no one knew better than God
and dentist who had Lancia position.

Muttered a few incoherent sentences, but Obdulia continued ignoring him

- Theology I just know that priests are required to have prayer and the praise of not praying
is more typical of that wicked ministers of the Lord.

He said calmly and naturally became more incisive and deep the scratch.

- "Where have you learned so much, miss? - Asked D. Narciso, puzzled now.

- As I learned in catechism explained and masterful sermons Lancia
... whom they say that you imitate ... but nothing more than gestures,
you know?

D. Narciso was wounded to the quick of his being, because in fact doing everything possible
to look like the master, sacred notable speaker. He was silent a few moments and available to
answer when he came to stop the shooting the entrance of a new Miss called Candida, tall, thin,
lean and tight, the family of cod. Fortuna had D. Narciso, since the dispute had to lose. Obdulia
had a vivid imagination, and before being given to the mystique enjoyed
a reputation for lively and funny among friends.

Ms Eloisa took the opportunity to change the conversation, which had become dangerous. Candida behind
Ms Theodora entered. It came accompanied by D. Juan Casanova. This straight and stately gentleman
was accustomed from time immemorial to the gathering by night Ms Theodora. When it came to her friend
Ms Eloisa, which happened a or twice a week, accompanied her along with the servant. D. Peregrin,
after he arrived of bureaucratic tour in Catalonia, also acquired the habit of hanging out all
evenings at home of Ms Theodora.

Unable to figure out when and how was in the mind of the old civil government official Tarragona
the idea of ??supplanting his brother in the heart of the cool girl, but is ascertained thing was
born, and was developed with extraordinary strength in no time. Began to be taxed a thousand
attentions, to recreate the delicious repertoire of her memories
of employee to make a show in the presence of a subtle wit, an amazing
facility for puns.

Also sought to demonstrate his undisputed intellectual superiority over his brother, leading
the opposite of what he said, smiling contemptuously when he spoke,
vejándole Finally, a thousand ways.

Ms Theodora, however, stubbornly resisted this impersonation. But should being well convinced
of the superiority of D. Peregrin, a man of world and scholar therefore no longer continue
lavishing Don Juan the same signs of affection. On the contrary, the scorn of his brother only
served to manifest it more alive than before. This embittered the heart of Mr. Peregrin. It was the
strongest motive of resentment among many who had attacked his brother,
after height.

Candida was to kiss the hand of P. Melchor, who was the daughter of confession, and consoled him
with respect, submission and the affection with which he began to speak, the failure that had
just experienced.

Hardly settled all again, D. Peregrin, who until then had remained within an ordinary talkativeness,
stimulated by the presence of Ms Teodora, wanted to graceful sample of their wonderful skills
to enliven any gathering. Grabbed by the hair the opportunity it gave D. Narciso, to censor what
they were badly paved streets of rocks, to say with his shrill voice and penetrating in a pause:

-
When I was governor of Tarragona ...

- It seemed Tarragona! - Adviser said dully, as he placed the letters.

Those who were nearby heard the cry and laugh. To the ears of D. Peregrin was a clatter, paused and
looked cowardly Director. Then he went to decision her story. The fifteen days he had served
the government of Tarragona, in the absence of disease governor and secretary, were the golden
age of the existence of Mr. Peregrin, sweet and poetic period which rattled remember always your
heart. Many events in those two weeks! Many brilliant images of glory and power arose in his mind to think
of them! The smallest details of such a beautiful dream teníalos present which if they had
just made. Could say how many times it had rained in those fifteen days, what I ate and drank,
what color were the pants he spent.

For a time, when he spoke of this time, he would say: - "Making governor in Tarragona me ..." Later replaced
the sentence with this: - "When I was governor of Tarragona ..."

And when he was governor of Tarragona happened that the local press complained about the abandonment
of streets, blaming, like everything else that was wrong, the conservative administration. Then him
responsible for ensuring the government and the party had called the mayor to his office and told
him: "My friend ..." Here is a run of observations D. Peregrin, more the repeated, grew more vigorous,
until it became scathing invective. Mayor I answered this and that (the mayor's response was
becoming weaker and insignificant). Then it without breaking down, less or more, as calmly, as he
says nothing, he replied: "Dear Mayor, you have two choices: either the suspension or immediate
settlement of the streets. "

- The next day, very early, were working two crews of workers on the streets - finished D. said
Peregrin with a cold smirk. The conclusion and the smile were all it was not going slowly changing
in an interesting anecdote.

Or because they already have heard many times or not having the spirit is willing to administrative
class confidences, it is certain that very few were attending gatherings. They talked with each
other in pairs or in groups of three and four. Candida whispering with P. Melchor, Ms. Eloisa with
his godson P. Gil and Obdulia, D. Joaquin Marcelina and P. Narcissus with Ms Filomena. You can ensure
that only people who actually listened the former acting governor of Tarragona were his brother
and Ms Teodora, that is, those who knew details of their administrative as well as he. Because
Ms Serafina Barrado, although it was still and attentive eye on the
speaker, so vague in offering look, that it was put to see that it
was far from what he said.

What this lady listened, imperceptible tremors of pain and rage, was the rumor of the talk Marcelina
its chaplain. A long time ago D. Joaquin differed significantly to this Miss, his penitent.
These distinctions came to the soul Ms Serafina, who apparently aspired to the monopoly of them.
Given that the chaplain, was the act of being begotten and birth, was in all his workmanship,
it seemed that he was entitled to it. But he did not believe it well, or took pleasure in
shaking with detours and Seriousness unjustified. Not a day passed without the good Lord experienced
a rebuff by his protege. Did she take as such that was not, but the priest, knowing the subject
and zealous affection he professed should show more care to avoid. Now you could see very clearly
that his asides and whispers were intentional: perhaps they had finally punishing him for indirect
defense he had made of P. Gil, whom D. Joaquin hated couple of death.

Ms Marciala more open or more angry, just take his eyes off D. Narciso and Ms Filomena tellers eyes,
restless, as they went from time to time flashes of anger. In centers of the town gossip was said
that Ms P. Marciala was in love Narciso. Although this is not credible, because it is a lady
that all life had been expressed very circumspect and religious, there is no doubt that their
familiarity with the priest could give lead to distorted interpretations among people prone
to think evil of others. Had married and later, when he was over thirty years, with D. José María,
the apothecary of the square. He, who had been all his life a rabid Republican, barely frequented
the church, and met in his back room at night a group of Democrats (Freemasons were called the
pious of the people), through the influence of his pious wife had been slowly changing my mind.
Began to move away from politics and leave the subscription to the Mutiny, then was eliminated
of gathering the most exalted and dangerous subject, then saw him politely alternating with various
priests. Finally, as a mission of Jesuits came to the village, Ms Marciala got one lead to confess.
Since then made a complete and radical change in the life of D. José
María.

The fierce Republican subscriber of the Mutiny, was transformed into a brother of St. Vincent
de Paul, brother of the Sacred Heart. Lighted in the processions, made the guard of the Blessed
with scapular neck, etc., etc. And not only practiced all the religious activities of a fervent
believer, but he gave in and accompanied by clergy receive them in the back rooms, rather than
the wicked who came before, in such a way that his pharmacy came to be after some time the gathering
of traditionalists Peñascosa. Such was the praiseworthy work carried out with remarkable strength
and skill by Ms Marciala. It helped him greatly with their advice on P. Narciso. Perhaps for this
reason his soul was so attached and grateful to her director, who know not contained, and stimulated
was pávulo to bad Peñascosa languages.

It was, as we know, one that contributed to education and the career
of P. Gil; but the drop that occurred in the herd of D. Narciso arrival
of the former, remained loyal to his pastor.

May help you stay in the flight of Obdulia, whom she had, as fame, a jealous rage, and it seems
he was right. Aspired to replace it the eloquent grace of diverting priest, and had almost succeeded.
Unfortunately, stood in the way Ms Filomena, a widow who already know who more modestly and
reserve admired his spiritual director and lavished him in silence and shadow thousand attentions
sensitive, which concluded by making a dent in his heart. Not mean that it ceases to consider and
should serve as Ms Marciala, but he was seen in some time to that part more inclined to Ms Filomena,
though never so designated course as he had felt by Obdulia.

In the gathering of Ms Eloisa stirred thousand sweet sentiments, which, like the shadow the light,
always accompany other bitter. Several young single women, to whom time and disenchantment had become more
reflective, some married women where their husbands were able to extinguish the thirst for the
infinite, and such that another widow in need of comfort, gathered
every night at around half a dozen priests, forming an interesting
group and moving.

This little world, oblivious to the struggles of all politics, science and material interests,
was a delightful oasis in the midst of general corruption customs. The perfect female submission
of those souls to its directors, benevolence and the tenderness with which they strove to lead
them down the path of virtue, lent to socialize a mild, innocent and pious that not only find security
in Secular. There was a joyful interpenetration of the spiritual in the temporal, it was an
image about what must be the reign of God on earth.

The mystical herd was divided, as was natural. Each priest had his daughters confession who obeyed him
and admired him. And they, building, business experts and pastors, character and condition of each
sheep, often stimulated by the successful handling, now their self-flattering, sometimes with
jealousy sometimes mortifying, others with healthy coldness others in a proper compliment. Missing
or not in that society, some exquisite honest recreations. It was not all knitting and crochet
bedspreads, also worshiped to music. Fr Norberto was the organist of the church, and although he knew
little secular music, Some night I played, and when not accompanied
Fr Narciso, who among his many skills had to play the flute in two
or three pavanas and the symphony of Joan of Arc. Also Marcelina could
sing La Stella confidant and prayer to the Virgin.

D. Melchor could do some sleight of hand; D. Peregrin Casanova's seasoned with salt gathering
stories, recited Candida piano admirably various moral fables, and finally, P. Joaquin was
playing, scratching teeth with your fingernails, any piece of music, and imitated the cry of the
cock so perfectly anyone confused him with the biped.

That night there was music.

The mood was a bit oblivious. There was some concern in the party, motivated by the presence
of P. Gil, whom none of his colleagues, if except P. Norberto, showed
sympathy.

The conversation was rolling from one to another subject, all unimportant.

In a moment of silence, D. Juan Casanova, who had his head tilted to one side, no doubt by
the excessive weight of the brain, somewhat discharged, saying with
his usual solemnity

- Eloise, today I found his brother Alvaro in
the Paseo de la Atalaya.

He wore trousers frame.

Ms Eloisa sighed, as long as he played the point of his brother.

- These days have been a little sick. I was told the servant - said sending a shy glance at the
table where he played her husband.

D. Martin and his brother for some time that were not related.

For the trivial reason of furniture of the house that was meant to bring to his own, without
right, broke in a violent way. D. Martin (what else?) Put his hand on his brother's face and
challenged him over this. From then, total separation between them. D. Álvaro living in his huge
house, all alone, and D. Martin in his with his wife. This, from time to time, hidden from Mr.
Martin, was to visit his brother.

- There seems to good health -
said Fr Gil, who did not know why he was interested man.

- Oh! Very
sickly and delicate.

Just taking care a lot can go on living.

Clerics, as always when Montesinos was in the presence of his sister,
kept gloomy silence, with a long face and plastered.

If it were not, would insurance released a statement of outrage and sarcasm against that wicked
one, who was shocked the villa with his views and his conduct.

With great difficulty adhering to the narrow loop family.

There was a gloomy silence, for the ladies, realizing what was happening in the interior of spiritual
directors dared not speak.

Ms Eloisa turned to breathe another sigh and said painful accent,
as if to end in a monologue aloud:

- Too bad you have been perverted
in Madrid!

Alvaro has a good heart ... and they all say he is a man of talent.

Clerics felt annoyed by those accolades. One of them, Father Melchior, is dare say smirk:

- Madam, permit me not to recognize talent who does not admit the
truth of our holy religion.

- At least it was the first in his chair
and went among their teachers for a guy clear.

- And it will, madam,
- said Fr Gil, whom the aggressive twang of his partner was upset
.-- It can have talent and be blinded in any case.

His brother, unfortunately, what is in regard to the most interesting to man. But there is no reason
to deny talent. The heretics have been great, if not so, would certainly not have could give
the appearance of truth to error and deceive many people.

Although it felt wounded to the quick by the indirect reply, Fr Melchor
did not dare answer, and preferred to be distracted eating the anger.

For most who do not confess all Peñascosa clergy felt the superiority of P. Gil, who blamed,
of course, to was the only one among them who had followed the race can of theology. No other
attempt not contradict him for fear of making a bad paper.

The conversation was directed by the other side. Charlose lively construction project of a new
church near the plaza, flown by several neighbors and which opposed with all their might the
priest, fearing to divide the parish. The players were alternatives in their silence and noisy altercation.
Fr Gil remained silent and pensive, impressed with what he had to hear and say. Figure of Montesinos,
who had not seen more than three or four times in his life, and that from a distance, floating
in his mind waking up at Viva curiosity. The claim that Mrs. Eloisa had always been the first among
his classmates, helped to make it bigger, if not more interesting
to your eyes, man.

A desire vague, indefinite and conquer approach was born in his mind. When the arrival of
D. José Maria Osuna, the apothecary and gave the signal for the dissolution of the gathering,
even the thought rolled for his brain for shape.

The night was overcast and gloomy. The sky would drop with obstinacy a fine rain and cold. At
the door of the house the circles were divided: most stayed for the near the square, others went
down the street of the Quadrant.

And on it went separating all until they were alone Fr Gil, Osuna and his daughter, the only
living Field of fainting. Obdulia arranged that the P. Gil's tapase with his umbrella. The hunchback
moved back, glad not to go through the humiliation of having her daughter tapase, for because
of the large difference in height so it was good.

They walked a few moments in silence, listening to the distant roar
of the sea beating against the rocks and the faint sound of rain on
the umbrella.

The girl expected to P. Take out Gil the conversation of his altercation
with Fr Narciso, and indefinitely prolonged attempt silence.

Seeing taciturn and withdrawn, he ventured to say in a trembling voice:

- Are you angry with me, father?

- Why? - Asked the clerk in surprise, suddenly out of his meditation.

-
The dispute I had with D. Narciso.

- Ah!

Yes ..

In fact, I did not like the rebellious attitude that you have placed
in front him.

It is unworthy of a humble and virtuous young as you ...

Obdulia was silent, feeling in the heart of the censorship of his director. Finally he said,
putting red, which no one could see:

- You're right, I have committed a sin and repent ...

After a long pause, he added humbly:

- You can not imagine how much I dislike the look of envy D. Narciso.

-
Envy? - Asked the priest with surprise .-- Who is jealous?

- You,
Father, to you - the young woman said firmly.

- No, my dear, no -
said Fr Gil all bewildered .-- I can not be envied by anyone ... I
a poor clergyman ... a miserable sinner ...

- Well, even so ... I
understand ...

Replace your embarrassment, the priest then said sharply:

-
I beg you not to say those things again, or that thinks ... Forbid
it ... Note you are two priests - added after a pause, his voice softening.

Obdulia

no reply. Muda and heart squeezed by a strange sentence, continued
marching next to the cleric.

He spoke to Osuna without turning

- At the Country are going to feel the air, Mr. Osuna.

- When does not blow in that damn field? - Said the hunchback with bad humor.

And indeed, to engage with it, a violent gust struck them face and
was about to return umbrellas.

The cleric's robe, the petticoat of the girl waving: they had trouble
forward.

Finally reached the great portal of Montesinos.

They wiped his face with his handkerchief and restored the disorder of his clothes. Fr Gil
returned to lead a curious look, searching for the dark door on top
of which always burning oil lamp.

- Goodbye, Mr. Osuna, you rest
- said extending his hand to the hunchback.

Then he had a moment of indecision going to lie to Obdulia, but troubled by the look intense
and ecstatic that she nailed him, took his hat and bowed gravely, saying:

- Good evening, miss.

Again raised the umbrella and quickly saved the distance that separated him from the rectory.
The Obdulia eyes, motionless at the door while his father called, and followed him for some time.

Before
entering the rectory, Father Gil turned and also stood a few moments. But his eyes sought the
door where it had disappeared. Were above once embraced the vast and sombre facade of the
great manor house, seasoned with Hurricane shocks, serious and disdainful slept under the weather.
Contemplola long, carefully. His eyes shone with a mystical fire of joy. It was the look of
the apostle, greedy, tender, lenient. Perhaps the expression should be reflected in the eyes of
San Pedro in view of Rome.

IV

Since that night, Fr Gil did not dream of anything else. Apostolate
fever reddened with so that did not leave empty corner in your brain
to another thought. Within it entablose a silent struggle between
the living and burning desire to enrich your life with the conquest
of a bitter enemy of the Church, and fear repossession, crazy, not
knowing why he inspired. In his ongoing walk around the room it occupied
in the rectory, while with breviary in his hand saying the obligatory
prayers, often stopped at the window the tip of the curtain rose,
and looked timid and anxious at the palace of Montesinos. There was,
stern, impenetrable, hostile as a stronghold built by the impious.
Balconies closed forever. The mystery man who had lived to hate both
the light sun as that of faith