 I will not do anything for you. When did your second husband promised me be
a model of economy and prudence, and I was so dumb, I lost time and to some money for launching
your fortune, which was water everywhere as an old boat .... Let me finish, Manuela; not interrupt
me. Do you want me to believe that still preserves all free of traps, as I gave it to you?
Quia, my daughter! In this century there are no miracles, and fifteen thousand dollars of capital
does not hold a carriage or the pageantry that you spend. The know everything, and if not,
listen.

And Don Juan, with a wealth of detail, as well versed in business, was describing her sister state
of his fortune. I had a piece of land free from the burden of a mortgage; income only if they
gave for revenues, and the very house in which she lived was a farm
that produced little, because of his vanity.

- When you got to be
a widow in my hands, lived in one of two rooms had rented the second
floor and head east.

A hard day is a great thing, and more on your situation. But you could not get used to be lady
of many steps, as you say in your jargon; wanted your room and your coach, as in the days of
crazy waste, and the pretext that the girls were growing and needed cock and lie, go down
to the floor and fell income also increased costs. Because you could not have a trunk, pull
carts and sedan, and in another time, sold a field to buy the galerita and the horse and keep
that bigardón, son of Aunt Quica, which robs you of barley and carob .... I know it bothers you
hear this, but I tell you to know that I suck my thumb or easily fooled me .... I have never
cast the illusion of becoming. You will always be the same Manuela, mad, the pretentious, and
die when you spend the last penny. Everyone is born with his character, and you are of those poor old
father singing the song:

/ * Arròs and trap, coat to fashion, It wraps around the ball the
valensiana!

*
       /
     
     And as if the tune's
     uncle was the signal
to start the music for girls they deafened the room with the click
of the piano and warbling strained.

Don Juan took courage with this crash. Seeing that the boys only attending the piano, went
on, but it raised more voice, with great alarm of his sister.

- Marching to your doom, Manuela.

When you're in misery, always remember that I am your brother, and
you have to eat you and yours .... But money, a penny!

Doña Manuela raised his head proudly, showing the burning eyes and ruddy cheeks.

- Thanks for the charity - said wryly -. But I have not got there.

- Reaching, reaching - "don Juan without losing the haze -.

You're on the road. Even today can endure, and you refuse to see that the eight thousand pieces,
you will seek to Dona Clara, the witch lender or other person in the class, and will sign
a promissory note for twelve or fourteen thousand.

You stuck in the mud and will never leave him much effort you do
you will sink.

If not I knew you both, I'd hand, but not "one and no more, St. Thomas', I remember a lot care with which
you followed my advice.

The lady was incensed by the rough language of his brother. It was very owner of not giving that
misery, at last, was what she had always believed: a heartless miser. But his demand not authorized
to bore you with so much preaching.

- Shut up, John, I get nervous with your rudeness.

- Silent, daughter does not want to bother you on a day like this.

But I can only get a warning. Those who are so drowned like you cling to straws. Juanito has a
farm worth anything: the garden of Alcira, you had to respect as All rights reserved. As now the boy
is older and you want both, I warn you that if to make money you
mix in your deals will have to Vertel me.

I am your guardian, on behalf of his poor father, and my mission
is finished but legally, I believe in the duty to defend because which
is a good-natured fool anyone .... And do not tell you more.

The two brothers were silent. He sank into his chair, watching the kids, and she was left with
eyes on the ground, frowning and purplish-red cheeks, as if erysipelas produjese anger him.

Rafael
had left the room, playing with Miss Juanito increasingly restless,
barking, and Robert, leaning on the piano, talking to Concha, who
smiled nervously typing, making scales seemed to prance and initiating
familiar topics that blended beautifully.

- Where the hell are the
others? - Thought the man, his eyes wandering around the room.

And the other, or Andresito Amparo and were on a balcony overlooking the street with his nose
pressed against the glass and protected by curtains.

The baby, with its naive Loquillo, had a devilish ability to always get his way. Had maneuvered
deftly to be the son of blocks to the balcony, where the child was at home, away from prying eyes
and curious ears.

First, had spoken of the time, laughing at the capricious arabesques traced the raindrops trickling
through the glass, but the young, pale and trembling, as if torment some hidden thought, guided
the conversation insensibly, and Amparito is drag left, sure that either way would always where
she wanted.

The guy looked closely at the curtain of the balcony and legs Andresito, which was all visible
partner.

At a time that Shell stopped typing, Amparo's voice, which sounded distant, as buffered by the
curtains.

- But Andresito ... If we are so young!

Young! And what of that? For love there is no age, nor were no classes.

I assured him that he was quite competent in this matter, being a poet and not unheard of for
his triumphs were achieved in the Catholic Youth. In addition, he was no child inside four years
would be a lawyer, and then who knows ...? His imagination saw confusedly the distance that something
that caress every apprentice lawyers. An armchair judge an easy chair or stool Minister clerk
... anything, it was important sit down somewhere.

No, they were young to love. I had told him in a sonnet and a half dozen stanzas written with
the thought put into Amparito. Love has no age.

He loved to immense passion of the great poets, and spoke of Dante and Beatrice, Petrarch and
Laura Ausias March and Teresa. Amparito listened smiling, pleased
with this litany of poets.

All very gentlemen, but that lie for the first time I heard, with
the exception of Ausias March, because his name from the street where
she had her dressmaker.

To him it was impossible to live if Amparito refused to love, need, not abhor life, she decided
to become his muse, his inspiration. And the cute baby, but the habit still laughing, he felt
very happy to be inside someone's muse, honor ever Concha reach his sister. Be considering her
sister was more than what pushed further to say yes.

In addition, a no-show boyfriend every moment, and although there the disadvantage that she
was the daughter of a famous doctor - as claimed by the mother - and the Andresito parents were
just ordinary - also according to Dona Manuela - was confident that with the time, the brilliant
position to win the boy intended to pave everything.

And when he spoke hotter Andresito its torments of love, the girl interrupted telling your twang
joker, as he agrees to take part in a game:

- Well, we'll be lovers ... but by God! Mom knows nothing.

IV

The Carnival of that year was very happy for the family of Dona Manuela.

The girls had fun. Rafaelito was a partner in all circles distinguished and decent where dancing,
while upstairs in a room with light green, guarded and monitored
as den of conspirators, the roulette wheel with its bright colorful
or fans are grouped around the four letters of the mountain.

What nights those emotions, joys nerve, voluptuous dizziness, and then crushing, brutal tired ...!
Johnny was responsible for opening the door when The family returned the ball. At dawn, about
four, I heard screeching heavy gates, entered the carriage in the courtyard, with a crash, and
he jumped off the bed getting pants. The entrance of the family was dazzled, feeling unhappy impression
vanity. The sisters, sometimes dressed in costumes of society, the work of a dressmaker French,
and were still payable; gracefully disguised other Labrador to pierrots or Calabrese, Rafael,
tag, embedded in a clear coat, so short skirts seemed like an American,
and the mother satisfied with the success of their children, despite
Fatigue, smiling and majestic with her silk dress, which creaked at
every step, and above the large velvet coat, Johnny watched with a
father's love this show that was passed out in search of the bed,
throwing chairs to step in the exterior trim.

The mom was always for him an idol, a superior being, and the brothers, seeing them as smart, did
you remember the time when he, small but smart by diverting maternal served them careful babysitting,
taking them in her arms and struggling with their children's sublime abnegation whims.

Inadequate clothing rose up, coughing and trembling, to open the door, it was necessary to
leave, the maids sleep, so tired the next day not hindered in their work. In addition, the
sight of his family seemed to bring some of the highlights of the
festival, the perfume women, the echoes of the orchestra, the faint
of infatuation voluptuous pairs the classroom environment, heated
by a thousand lights, and the passion of the dialogues.

And then vacuuming the great perfume from an unknown world that seemed to bring his family from the
folds of their clothes, the poor boy back to bed to sleep three hours and then take the path
of the store, while mom and brothers snored his first sleep with fatigue own dance night.

Then, at the lunch were the comments the pleasant memories, tantrums
for alleged offenses in the first moment had passed unnoticed, and
that widening now in the imagination, calling for revenge.

Both girls remembered the slight smile of Lopez to examine their Calabrian costumes. Laugh at
them! The very cheesy!

Best in would be a turn around themselves, it is not always going to chic dancing with the same
white domino, so to get the mask on, all poultry shouted: "You are
there those of Lopez!"

Apart from these collective disappointment, the two girls the also suffered particularly. Conchita
Roberto was furious at the Field, "the nice chicken," as some call
it.

Many verbiage, compliments bulk, but serious and formal declaration ... Or this! Dancing with it,
and maybe abandoned his partner and left the room, not to reappear until time of final galop. His
excuse was always the same: I had something to settle with Rafaelito.

- Where you meteis, damned? - Asked his sister the following day -. What fun is that makes you
so rude?

- Women are things of men. While you bailáis, we are dedicated to jobs more serious.

Serious, yes, how serious they were, they had fried Rafaelito the mother - as self-expression -
five dollars a day asking her after the dance. The Carnival was bad luck for him, and the murmur
of the orchestra that sounded down, always dancing around the letter went contrary and took the mound
of the PTA mom's banker.

Amparo also had its disappointments. What happened she could not happen to anyone. What was not
having a boyfriend or have anything. Let's see: what a girl has a boyfriend? To wear it, for you
to see the friends and rage a little ... Is not it? As such it could not be pleasure. Andresito
had no room and it was not a member of the circles where it was. Her parents I had quite elegantito,
yes, but give limitábanse three pesetas Sunday and entrusting a sermon that was not wasteful
or skull, which looked into how he spent his money ... and very carefully
with getting into bad places.

Begging any invitation in newspaper offices, and if succeeded, went to the dance, but only until
one o'clock. Has you see? Until one, the time they arrived the friends and dance began to cheer.
Only once got Andresito wait until two o'clock, but the next day suspected Based in Las Tres Rosas
had been waiting, behind the door, some rough whiskers and a measuring stick to give the "good evening"
in the ribs behind the dancer .... Was this a serious boyfriend? And then, if you stay alone
in the dance, very careful to accept his kind invitation of so many
chickens, because if the Lord knows who has danced put a muzzle unbearable
and Othello speaks of one, and shoot a sonnet in which he puts a of
perfidious, perjured and faithless, no where to pick it up .... No,
sir, the thing can not continue well.

She was to blame for not heeding mom, saying that the Three Roses were just ordinary. Andresito
was a good kid, but she could not be a fool and her friends ask him ironically by her boyfriend.
As another who was to decide the view was done: planting a Andresito.

They arrived three days of Carnival. In the morning, between the student music and bands that
ran the streets, flaunting families spent some unhappy child wrapped in the mesh Lohengrin,
the doublet of Quevedo or the red breeches of Mephistopheles. The blind and blind the rest of the year
touting the piece of paper on which you are all that were sung by a gang, guitar to the chest,
or belly dancers dressed as fishermen, poorly arranged, with dirty clothes of ropería.

Sheets of colored boys hawked with tenths and quatrains, happy and fun to masks, collections
of nonsense and rubbish rhymed metric that afternoon had to provoke howls of outrage in the Alameda
happy. At the door vendíanse Market cardboard noses, whiskers Mane, leagues multicolored bells
sound and painted masks, able to obscure the imagination of the sculptors of the Middle Ages,
some with muscles incurred by the pain, eye vermilion jumped and
streams running down his cheek, others with a huge front, frightful
faces of skeletons with sunken nostrils and disgusting; figs noses
are crushed, or extend as winding tube with a bell at the tip causing
contagious smiles and laughter to those ruddy cheeks grabs a nasty
green lizard.

Students, with the raw cloak, tricorn hat in hand and waving his sleeve loop School, ran the
streets like a mad herd, harassing passers-by to extract money on behalf of charity. By the square
of the Pajares paraded Medicine and Law, and around the erect yellow or red flag, broke the
music playing merry waltzes, who quickly populated the balconies.

Noisy expansion of youth care free and invaded the place as a deafening drunkenness. Three-cornered
hats flew onto the balconies, each pretty face flourishes caused endless where the hyperbole dilatábase
to the unknown, and boy was driven by a treacherous shot, he despised the vulgar invitation of
the stairs, climbing the front, holding onto the bars, to deliver a bouquet of flowers to the
girl and ask a drive to the mother.

Concha y Amparo received a standing ovation and Dona Manuela, red with pride, divided ESP smiles
and the whole swarm of black devils, hawkers and gestures that crowded
under the balcony.

Behind them was Andresito Cuadros, who had just entered in the cloak room with plywood, a cloth
smeared with black infamous shirt and face. He carried bouquets for Mom and girls, and was talkative,
bold, though, with great disappointment Amparito, did not try like the others, climbing the
facade, a system that she thought very interesting.

In the afternoon, the galerita nelet hooked, and Alameda, where the party took the character
a drunken slave Saturnalia.

The costume of a peasant was a pretext for all sorts of brutal expansions, and accompanied
by the jingling of the bells of the leagues, groups breeches trotting ironed flowers vests,
blankets waving and stiff silk scarves. A deafening howl, a "Che ... e. .. e! "shrill, extended
to infinity, as the battle cry of the skin red, touched the streets. The maids, Sunday best,
they fled in panic upon hearing the shouting; and spent the tribe at a gallop, taking furious jumps,
with its horribly grotesque masks and brandishing over their heads
huge painted wood blades with vermilion spots the curved blade.

Scrambled eggs with them, were the costumes as always: doodles with wrinkled Levites hats and
decorated with arabesques of cards, babies poking their beard under the mask and rattle in
time to the cynical saying enormities, whistling Green Devils with anger and lashing with
its tail to fool; Roma with a mangy donkey dying tinted stripes like a zebra, clowns agile,
with a nasty old ragged broom shoulder, and uncles' to Higui! "hitting the pole and blowing
up the bait before the squad sweet boys with their mouths open.

All this invasion of dummies who jogged around the city, shouting
like a lunatic asylum loose headed to the Alameda, passed the bridge
of the Royal involved with the crowd, and so they were on the promenade,
going around to the plantation to give unbearable joke, sounding slaps
with the greatest ease.

The galerita of Pajares, despite its varnished cover of harnesses and bright yellow wheels, so
thin and light that looked like a toy, appeared shrunken and dull at the huge chain of saloons
and spools, Factories and dog-carts, as arcaduces the wheel, were
all late round and round the central avenue of the ride.

Rafaelito had disguised themselves as clowns, and their ilk occupied a moving car, on the cover
of which mischief were greeted with rude words and all the girls they were within range of their
voices piping. Look at those funny guys!

The coach of Dona Manuela had an escort. A handsome man with black domino, riding a horse rent,
went all afternoon and stuck to the door, talking to Shell, while Amparo watching mom and masks.
It was Roberto del Campo, which, despite its elegance, was becoming
a postmodern, which flourishes only knew that, but never declared.

Mom beginning to find not so appealing to that espantanovios. God knows how many propositions
have lost the child because of this man, who enjoyed all the intimacies of a boyfriend never to
be undecided. But Conchita is deaf to the advice from Mom. She would fish, men ready to lay them
to fall when you least expect it: everything was a matter time and
present a good face.

Passed and Dona Manuela Carnival was in full Lent. It was time to purge the wastage and joys of the
season. The French couturier had the account suits for girls, and also needed money for household
expenses. Total, Dona Manuela needed three thousand.

Her friend Donna Clara, the broker lenders, of which Don Juan spoke pests, not found money for the
widow of Pajares.

- Frankly, Dona Manuela: you have so many notes that world, and renewed interest not always charge
...! My friends refuse to give a penny.

If you found a person with guarantees that would endorse his signature ...!

Person guarantees ...! It was not so easy to find this, asked lenders
to so simply. There was his brother, only with a word could get her
out of trouble; but had to think about such miserable, able to leave
his entire family perish before Losing a peseta. What a plight! And
as a distinguished person she had to put in a predicament for a few
pesetas, when so many thousands had thrown through the window at other
times ...!

Had to pay the dressmaker, the idea that it could tell
the truth to their parishioners, all ladies who, horrified by the
widow, although she had no friends with them