 

In these things we call bodies, found in our power to produce prints very different from that of
extension. Extension of things as we get very different impressions: There is therefore the same
thing more than the extension. If there were more than this, where she would equal, would have
the same effect: experience shows otherwise.

In addition, we conceive extension in pure space, and yet we do not see the body. This when there
is no mobility, and space is stationary.

Does not exist when there is no capacity to produce prints, and the mere extension of space does
not have this capability.

Then the simple idea of ??the extension does not contain, even in the state of our knowledge,
the whole idea of ??the body. Ignore what the essence of this: but we know who enters on the idea
that it have, something more than extension.

[39.] When it is said that the body is inconceivable without extension, not to say that the
extension is the concept that constitutes the essence of the body. This essence is unknown to
us, and therefore we can not know what goes on it or not. Behold this fair sense inseparability
of the two ideas, extension and body. As we have no knowledge à priori bodies, and how much
they know, even their existence, received from sense, everything
we think or imagine about the bodies, must involve the serving as
the basis of our feelings.

This basis as we have seen above, is the extension: no she does not feel, and without therefore,
the body ceases to exist for us, or reduced to a being that does not stand out from others.

Will
clarify these ideas. If stripping the bodies of the extension, and leave you only the nature
of a being, because of the impressions I get, then this is no different for me a spirit that I
produjese the same effects. I see the paper, and gives me the impression a white surface. No
doubt God could produce in my mind the same sensation, without there being any body. So assuming
that I knew to my feeling not carries a large foreign object, and that alone is caused by something
that works on me it is clear that in my mind would be two things: 1. ª The phenomenon of sensation,
which in every case would be the same. 2. ª The idea of ??being that occurs to me, and this idea
would have more than a being different from me, that works on me:
it would have in relation to external two ideas, distinction and causality.

Now,

to this role dispossession of the extension, what's left? Same as above. 1. º A internal phenomenon
witnessed by my conscience. 2. º The idea of ??a cause of this phenomenon. Nothing more.

I do not know if this is still a body, but I know that the idea of ??the body such as I am, I get
something else: I know this for me, no different from other beings, and that if his innermost
nature is something that distinguishes them, this something is unknown to me (V. cap. 1).

[40.] Here as in what direction I say the idea is for us inseparable extension of the body. But this
does not follow that these things are identified, and to deepen matter, may be found to exist
away from this identity, and body extension are two entirely different things. We have seen
that this was true by referring to the idea, which is an indication
that the same happens in reality.

[41.] Few have more clear ideas of extension geometrically considered, all attempt to explain it
is useless simply by intuition we know better than I could tell us volumes. This idea itself
is so bright that it is based on a body science, the most extensive and obvious that humanity
has: geometry. Then there are reasons to believe we know the true essence of extension, considered
in itself, because we know its necessary properties, and provided evidence that it lies our
more scientific edifice. And yet this idea is not found, or impenetrability, nor any of the properties
of the body on the contrary, we see an indifferent capacity for all of them. Conceive so easily
penetrable and impenetrable extension; empty as full, white and green with properties to be
in relationship with our bodies as without them. Extension conceive a disposition to affect
body to another, as in the pure space: in the sun that illuminates and warms the world, as in
the vague dimensions of an entirely empty vastness.

CHAPTER VII.

SPACE-NOTHING.

[42.] As explained in previous chapters may have noticed, that's ideas always mixed extension
of space, and when you want to set the real nature of that, we also offer questions about
the nature of this.

It is not possible explain any of those things, if left in the dark some of them, for the same
I shall deal at length on issues of space, so under ideal appearance as real, because only
this way we can proceed with some clarity in determining the nature of the extension.

[43.] Space: This is one of the deepest mysteries in the natural order offered the skinny man's
understanding. The more you delve into it, but it is dark: the spirit is as immersed in that
darkness that we figured out there in the vast depths of imaginary spaces. Know whether what you
experience are illusions or realities. For a moment he seems to have reached the truth, and
then discovers that it has narrowed its arms a vain shadow. Form speeches that other matters
would have to inconclusive and that are not in this, because they
are in opposition to others who also seem conclusive.

It would seem that it meets the limit to its research, has put the Creator: and that the endeavor
to pierce, fades, feels his flagging energy, your life extinguished, like all living on leaving
the element of its own.

When some philosophers are going slightly on space issues, and flattering to explain in two words,
it can be assured that either have not thought much about the difficulty that they hold, or to
meditate, they have not understood. Not proceed so, Descartes, Malebranche, Newton, and Leibniz.

Deepening
the bottomless pit is not wasting time in useless discussion, even if not be reached to find what
you are looking for, you get a very good result because touch the limits set to our spirit. It
is appropriate that we know what we can know and what is not, of this knowledge takes the philosophy
considered very high and profitable. Moreover, even with little hope of good result, it is
not possible to leave without test an idea it touches so close to the base of all our knowledge
concerning corporeal objects: the extension.

There is some reason to investigate where all philosophers have been investigated: What do
we know if long centuries of efforts to them is reserved the light, as the reward of constancy?

[44.]
What then is the space?

Is it something in reality? Is it just an idea? If an idea "Corresponds to an object in the
external world? Is it a mere illusion? The word space, is empty of meaning?

If you do not know what is the space, let us at least the sense of
the word with this Somehow we will post also in the state of the art.

By space we mean the extension imagine that placed the bodies: the ability to contain, to which
we attach no no quality of them, except the extension itself.

Assuming an airtight vessel, whose inside is empty, reduced to nothing As it is contained, and without
in any way be introduced nothing new, this cavity that capacity is, and in our understanding,
can be filled with body, that is a part of space. Imagine the world as a huge vessel in which they
are contained all the bodies: vaciémosle suddenly behold a cavity
with equal space the universe.

Let us imagine that beyond the limits of the world, there is capacity for other bodies behold
endless space or imaginary.

The space is presented at first sight, but as infinite, at least as indefinite. Because at any point
where a body placed conceive, you can also conceive move, describing
all sorts of lines taking variety of directions, and away indefinitely
the place where he was.

Next to that ability, to those dimensions, not limit them to imagine
whatsoever.

Then the space is presented as indefinite.

[45.] Will be no pure space?

Settle some that space, irrespective of any surface of bodies, and considered as a simple interval,
is pure nothing, admitting that he alone, can be tested two bodies are really distant, and
also add that even if the whole universe reduced to nothing, except
a single body, this could vary from place to move.

I think opinion holds that the contradictions that are difficult to reconcile. Who says extension-all,
it contradicts the terms, and yet this is reduced to the view we're talking.

[46.] If a room is reduced to nothing all that it contains, it seems that the walls can not be
distant. The idea of ??distance, including a medium between objects: nothing can not be a means,
is nothing. If the delay is nothing, no distance, they will be empty
words.

To say that nothing can own property, to destroy all ideas, is to affirm the possibility of
being and not being at the same moment, and thus subvert the foundations of human knowledge.

[47.] To say that all content is annihilating negative space, is to play with words and leave
standing the same difficulty. This negative space is something or nothing, if anything, falls
are fighting opinion, if anything, the challenge remains the same.

[48.] If the answer is that in spite of not getting anything between
the surfaces, they nevertheless left with the ability to contain,
observe that this capability is not on the surfaces same, but the
distances between: otherwise arranged in any way the surfaces always
retain the same capacity, which is absurd.

We therefore advance a step: need to explain what that capacity, that distance, the question
is still intact.

[49.] Perhaps you could replicate that wiped contained within the
surfaces, not volume is destroyed that form, and the idea of ??this
volume enters the building.

But I reply that the idea of ??wrapping volume away, for if it does not exist, no volume, and there
is no such distance, if distance is a mere nothing.

[50.] Pondering to release these difficulties so hurry, think of a specific response at first
sight, but well considered, is as futile as the others. The distance, we say, is a sheer denial of
contact, the denial is pure nothing, then we have nothing with this what we want. I repeat that
this solution is as futile as the other: for if the distance is nothing but the denial of contact
distances no greater or less, all are equal; since in having denial
of contact, and be all you can be.

The same exists denial of contact between two surfaces that are far each one millionth of a line
like a million miles. This denial then, nothing explains the same problem continues to exist.

[51.]
Far from the idea of ??distance can be explained by the contact, as its opposite, On the contrary,
the contact can only be explained by the distance. If you ask what is the proximity of two surfaces,
as explained by the immediacy, we say that touch because there is nothing between the two, because
there is no distance. In the idea of ??contact the relative qualities do not come to the senses,
nor of the action that one contiguous bodies can exert over another, such as momentum or compression:
contiguity is a negative idea, purely geometrical: it contains nothing but denial away. Contiguity
has no more no less, for all that may be, it is enough that no distance is a real denial. Two things
can be more or less distant: but can not be played more or less, with respect to a same parties.
What can be is more contact points, but no further contact between
the same points.

[52.] Strive but the argument for the reality of space, on the assumption
that are attributed to capacity and distance.

Suppose an area of ??two feet in diameter, entirely empty. Within that space is not over: if space
is nothing, nothing left.

I ask now: in the interior of the hollow sphere is it possible the movement? It seems certain; there
is no reason, there is a movable body, there is a greater extent than the body, no distance
to go. In addition, if the movement is not possible, it would be impossible also that the area
is filled with any body, after being empty, and emptying into being full. Neither empty nor filled
can be no movement of bodies in the interior of the sphere, and this movement is not a body
within another body, but in space: 1. º For the bodies are impenetrable: 2. No. Because when
it fills the area after having been empty, the body can not find
another body goes, and whoever comes out when the field is empty,
it moves through space it leaves, in which nothing but himself, and
nothing remains in dating him.

After assuming a hollow sphere, within it there can be movement. Now, if the content space is a pure
nothing, the movement is also nothing, and therefore does not exist. The movement can not exist
nor be conceived, but walking distance; this is essence, if the distance is nothing, anything goes,
then no motion. What will it mean the body has traveled half the diameter, or one foot? If this
is nothing, no mean nothing.

I do not know what to respond to all these good reasons in that axiom: nothing has no property.

[53.]
However great the difficulties are refusing to give the space a reality, I do not reach that
can be as serious as those which militate against anything, on the assumption one wishes to grant
extension. Those, as we shall see, lie rather in certain problems born out of our way of thinking, that
based on sound reasons; when we have just proposed are based on the ideas that underlie all knowledge:
in that most unquestionable proposition: nothing has no properties. If this proposition is not
admitted as incontrovertible axiom goes awry all human knowledge, including the principle
of contradiction: for obvious contradiction is that nothing has any property or parties, that nothing
can say anything, that nothing can move anything that the idea of ??nothing can be founded
a science as geometry, that refer to nothing all calculations are made on the nature.

CHAPTER VIII.

OPINION Descartes and Leibniz, ON THE SPACE.

[54.] If space is something, what is? Here is another very serious difficulty: to combat the
opponents have been easy to hold the position you choose, not be so. Could it be said that
space is nothing but the same extension of bodies, which conceived
abstract, which gives an idea of ??what we call pure space, and that
the diversity of points and positions, are but modifications of the
extension?

As soon as you see that if the space is the same extension of bodies, where there will be no blank
body. Then a vacuum is impossible. This result is inevitable.

So two philosophers have thought so egregious as Descartes and Leibnitz, but do not know why
both wanted to point out to the universe an indefinite extension. It is true that this sort
eluded difficult to imagine the spaces beyond the limits of the universe, then that if the universe
is limited, there can be nothing out of bounds, and therefore everything
We can imagine is within the universe.

But this is not to circumvent the difficulties but releasing them, for a review to avoid a
hard drive, nothing is in favor of strength.

[55.] According to Descartes the essence of body consists in extension, and as in space extension
conceived out of necessity, it follows that body, extension and space,
are three things essentially identical.

The vacuum as usually conceived, is an extension or space without a body, is something contradictory
as that body is to assume, therefore that extension means, and no body, therefore it is supposed
to removed.

Descartes simply accept the ultimate consequences of this doctrine. Thus, proposing the difficulty
Founded in which we imagine that God could remove all matter contained in a glass, staying
the same shape of the glass, answered firmly that this is impossible. "For we can, he says, correcting
an opinion so false, we see that there is no necessary link between the glass and body that
you full, but it is so absolutely necessary between concave glass figure, and the extension
must be included in this concavity, which there is more reluctance to conceive a mountain
without a valley, that such an extension without the concavity it contains, and this extension
without any extended thing, because it's nothing, as has been observed many times, can not have
extension. For which reason, if we are asked What would happen if God removed the whole body
is in a glass, without allowing enter another answer to the sides of this vessel would be
found so close, that would play immediately.

For two bodies must touch when there is nothing between them, it would be contradiction in these two
bodies were apart, ie have distance from each other, and that this distance was not anything. Distance
is a extension property that can not exist without the extension "(Princ. of Filos. p. 2. § 18).

[56.]
If cinemas Descartes argued that space, because it contains real distances can not be a pure nothing,
its reasoning would seem conclusive, but when he adds that the space is the body, for the reason that
space extension and the extension is the essence the body, seat does not prove a thing. They
do not conceive or imagine body without extension, only follows that the extension is a property
of the body, without which we will not conceive, but not that is its essence. To be sure of this,
it would be necessary as we have the idea of ??extension, the body
we had also to see if among them are identity.

But the bodies we know nothing but what we experienced through the senses, without being there
been given to penetrate the intimate nature.

Where does the inseparability of the extension and body ideas? Born from the idea that body we have
is a confused idea, as conceived as a substance that is a relationship with us, and because the
impressions we call sensations. And as we have shown above, the basis of feelings is the extension,
this is the only conduit through which we put ourselves in relation to the body. When this
base we need, because without it, we have no body but a general idea of ??being, or of substance,
not anything that characterizes and distinguishes him from the rest.

All these things are in the order of our ideas, but we can not infer that the bodies themselves
did not actually nothing more than extension.

[57.] With the same reasoning is destroyed the opinion of the infinite or indefinite extension. Descartes
unwrapping his doctrine on the idea of ??extension, said: "We will know too this world, or the
extended matter that makes up the universe has no limits: because where we propose to pretend
they want, we can imagine further, spaces indefinitely extended,
not only imagine, but we conceive to be such in fact as we imagine;
of luck containing an extensive body indefinitely, because the idea
of ??extension which we conceive in all space, is the true idea that
we have the body "(ib. p. 2.

§ 21).

In this passage, but the error on the essence of bodies, there is free transit of a purely ideal,
or rather imaginary, to a real order. It is true that wherever I imagine the limits of the universe
as an immense dome, denying, still imagine outside the dome new wastes of space that my fantasy
is submerged, but this infer that the reality is as I imagine, does not seem very tight to the
rules of sound logic. If this is as clear as Descartes supposed, it is not just imagination,
but concepcion based on clear and distinct ideas, how is that many
philosophers are not at all this more than a game of imagination?

[58.] Leibniz says that space is "a relation, an order, not only among existing things but
among the possible, as if they exist "(New Essays on the understanding
human, Lib.

2, chap. 13, § 17). Cree also that the vacuum is impossible, but not based on the reason of
Descartes. These are his words.

"Philalethes. Those who take the field and the extension for the same thing, pretend that interior
walls of a hollow, empty body be touched, but the space between two bodies is sufficient to
prevent mutual contact.

"Theophilo. I would argue the same way: when I not support empty distinction matter of extension, and
I confess that if I had a vacuum in a sphere, so it would touch the opposites. But I think
that this case does not support the divine perfection "(ib.

§. 21).

[59.] I think that Leibniz makes in this passage a petition of principle. Said that the Of course
if the walls would not be touched, because the space between them sufficient to prevent it; but
this is precisely what has to be proved: the actual existence of this space. This is which denies
Descartes.

[60.] Comparing the views of Descartes and Leibniz, one can see that both agree to deny to space a reality
distinct from the bodies, but based its opinion on matters very different. Descartes puts
the essence of the body in extension, where extension is body: where
there is space extension: therefore there can be no vacuum.

Leibnitz not inherently create an empty capacity absurd, and if not supported, it is because,
in his opinion, repugnant to the divine perfection. The two famous philosophers came to the same
starting point very different principles: Descartes lies in metaphysical reasons, based on
the essence of things, Leibniz does not rely on the absolute essence, but in its relations with
the perfection divine. The empty capacity, was not contradictory feelings of Leibnitz, but as
soon as opposed to optimism.

[61.] Since it is rather remarkable
that three such distinguished philosophers as Aristotle, Descartes
and Leibniz, have agreed to deny the existence of this capability
is called space considered as being different from the bodies, and
which can exist without them. The diversity of their opinions only
proves that at the bottom of the matter is a difficult thing more
serious than some ideologues seem to believe that so easily explain
the idea space and their generation, as if it were simple things