 Escaped their
arms as if repelled energy rape.

Ulysses watched a new woman, and whiter, his face almost green, bent nose by anger and a gleam of madness
in his eyes.

All that kept it in the back of his mind emerged in spurts, expelled by a husky voice full of
tears.

- No, no! ... live together because they are my husband and God commands
so, but you no longer I want: I can not love ... The bad I've done!

... Whether you loved me! ... For more you look in your travels and your evil adventures,
you will not find a woman who loves you as I wanted to yours.

His past modest and submissive affection, loyalty discreet and tolerant, came out of his mouth
as an endless complaint.

- I followed you here on your travels.

Around know your forgetfulness, your infidelity. They told me all the papers found in your pockets,
lost photographs from your books, references from your comrades,
your smiles of pride, with smug returning many times, a set of customs
and care of yourself you did not have to outta here ... Also guessed
your touch daring the hidden presence of other women living far away,
across the world.

He stopped his speech stirred a few moments, letting it extinguished the flame of remembrance
shameless that he had flushed his pallor.

- All I despised - continued -. I know the men of the sea: I am the daughter of ocean. Many Sometimes
I saw my mother crying, and I felt sorry for its simplicity. We must not mourn for what do men
in distant lands. It is always painful for a woman who loves her husband, but not consequences,
and should be spared ... But now ... Now! ...

The wife was angry when evoking the recent infidelity ... They were
no longer rivals quahogs of major ports and the travelers who can
only take a few days of love, as charity who throws without stopping
the pass.

Now he was in love with the youngster's enthusiasm an elegant and beautiful lady, a foreigner
who made him forget his business, leaving your boat and stay away, as if his family renounced
forever ... And poor Stephen forgotten orphan of his father, was searching for him with the
impetuosity adventurous inherited of their ancestors, and death,
a horrible death, he was met on his way.

Something more than the pain of the wife outraged cries rang in the Ribbon. It was the rivalry
Naples with that woman she believed a lady with all the amenities of wealth and high birth, the
envy of their superior weapons of seduction rabies by his own modesty
and humility of a woman home.

- I was resolved to know nothing -
went on to say -.

He had one consolation: my son. What I care what thou hast done? ... Were away and my son was at
my side ... And not see more!

... My destiny is to live forever alone! You know I can not be a mother again; I'm sick and can
not give me another child ... And you, you! who has taken away the only I had ...

His imagination produced the most improbable inferences to explain
this loss to itself unfair.

- God wants to punish you for your bad
life, and why he killed Stephen and kill me slowly to me ... When
I wanted to throw his death from the balcony.

Still alive because I'm Christian but what life awaits me! What a life for you if you are
truly a father! ... Think your child does not exist if you had stayed
in Naples.

Ferragut was pitiful. He lowered his head, not the strength to repeat the disordered and lying protests
that had taken the first words of his wife.

"If she knew the whole truth!"

He repeated in his mind the voice of remorse.

I thought with horror of what he might say tape to know the extent
of his sin.

Fortunately, knew that it was he who had helped with their help to the murderers of his son ...
And the conviction that never come to know him was to admit his words with a quiet humility:
the humility of one hears criminal charged with a crime by a judge who ignores other attacks
even greater.

Tape finished speaking to a discouraged and gloomy tone. I could not more: his anger subsided, consumed
by her own vehemence.

The sobs cut the words. I would not see her husband the same man as before: the child's body
lay between the two.

- I can never love ... What have you done, Ulysses? What have you done that you have horror?
... When I'm alone, I cry, my sadness is immense, but I admit my
misfortune with resignation as a distant thing that was inevitable
... So I hear your footsteps and see you go, raises truth.

I think my son has died for you, still live if it had not gone in search yours to remind you that
you were his father and that I owed to us ... And when I think that, you hate, hate you! ... You
killed my son! My only consolation is to think that if you are aware, suffer even more than
me.

Ferragut came out of this horrible scene with the conviction that he must flee. That house
and was not his. Nor was his wife. The memory of the dead filled it all, stood between him and
Film, pushing him, throwing him back into the sea.

His ship was the only refuge for the rest of his life, and should benefit from it as the greatest
criminals of past centuries took refuge in the haven of the monasteries.

Did someone need to download their anger, to find an official to whom
to attribute their misfortunes.

Tape had been revealed as a completely new. Had never suspect much energy of character, passionate
vehemence in this obedient young woman and sweet. Should have a counselor who took advantage of
his complaints to speak ill of her husband.

And he looked at Don Pedro the professor, because he kept a certain
prejudice against him asleep from their days of their courtship.

In addition, it offended him at home with an air noble character, whose virtues served as contrast
to the sins and omissions of the owner home.

Ferragut had the same character all the great runners of affairs: liberal housing and carefree
person; punctilious and suspicious in itself.

- That old geezer - he said - is in love with tape. It's a platonic love, with him not There is
nothing to fear, but I do all the damage that can ... I shall say
a few words.

Don Pedro, who continued their daily visits to console the mother, speaking of the poor Stephen
as if he had been devoting his son and servile smiles to the captain,
found himself tackled by it one afternoon on the staircase landing.

The ocean suddenly aged speaking, emphasizing its physical traits
with a strong ugliness.

It seemed at the time his uncle, the Triton.

Made a menacing voice memory of a well-known classical passage teacher. Namesake the old Odysseus,
returning to his palace, was found surrounded by suitors to Penelope, and had them hanging
from a spike by the most virile and painful.

- Did not you, professor?

... Here I do not see more than one suitor, but swears Ulises hang
it on the same side if he returns to find him at home.

Pedro fled.

Deemed interesting to the rugged heroes of the Odyssey, but in verse and paper. In reality seemed dangerous
brutes.

He wrote a letter to Tape which suspended its visits tell her husband to return to the sea.

This abuse increased the alienation of the wife.

Represented an affront to her. After to make him lose his son, Ulysses scare your only friend.

Captain
felt the need to go. To continue in that hostile environment that exacerbated his remorse, pile on error
on error. Only action he could to forget.

One day Toni said that within hours they were about to leave. Had offered his services to allied navies
to victual the fleet besieging the Dardanelles.

The Mare Nostrum transported food, weapons, ammunition, airplanes.

Toni tries to raise an objection. It was easy to find travel safer
and equally fruitful; could go to America ...

- And my revenge? -
Ferragut interrupted -.

The rest of my life I committed to doing everything that is bad to the murderers of my son.
The allies need ships, I give them mine and myself.

Knowing the concerns of his second, added:

- In addition, they pay well.

These trips are very rewarding ... I get what I ask.

For the first time in his life on board the Mare Nostrum pilot was a gesture of contempt for
the cost of freight.

- I forgot - Ulysses continued, smiling in spite of his sadness -.

This trip flatters your ideal ... Let us work for the Republic.

Went to England, taking its cargo leaving for the Dardanelles. Ferragut wanted to sail alone,
without the protection of the destroyers escorting the ships assembled in convoy.

He knew the Mediterranean. In addition, he was a neutral country and the Spanish flag flying
at the stern of the vessel.

This abuse was not remorse, nor seemed disloyal.

German privateers to prey approaching neutral flaunting flags to
deceive and not flee.

The submarines were hidden behind peaceful sailing, to emerge suddenly beside the fumes without
defense. The procedures felons of old pirates had been raised by the Germanic fleet.

The submarine was not afraid. Relied on the speed of Mare Nostrum and his star.

- And if we leave one to step - said to his mate - that we go to the bow.

I wanted it to be so, to launch the ship on the sub at full speed, spurs.

Mediterranean was no longer the same sea of ??months before, whose secrets he knew the captain
and I could not live there safely, and in the home of a friend.

Only remained in his cabin the time to sleep. He and Toni spent long hours on the bridge, speaking
without looking, with eyes turned to the sea, watching the moving
surface blue.

All crew members, even those who were within hours of rest, felt the need monitor the same way.

By day, the slightest alarm discovery sent the bow to stern. All waste sea, regardless weeks
before he ran beside the ship's sides, caused now cries for attention
and made many arms extended to point.

The pieces of wood, the empty cans of preserved under the sun shone, bunches of seaweed, a gull
with leaving folded wings rocked by a wave, suggested the submarine
periscope poking at the water.

At night, surveillance was even greater. The danger of the submersible had to add the a collision.
Warships and transports sailed the Halls allies or completely to
dark.

Those who did sentry at the bridge no longer looked at the sea surface and pale phosphorescence.
Probed the horizon, fearing that arose before the way forward black, huge and fast, spewed from
the dark.

If you ever slowed the captain's cabin, came immediately in his memory remember fatal.

- Esteban! ... My son ...

And his eyes filled with tears.

Remorse and anger made him imagine tremendous vengeance. He was convinced that their implementation
was impossible, but served his momentary consolation character of southern predisposed to the
bloodiest claims.

One day, posting the papers left in a suitcase, found the picture of Freya. Seeing bold smile,
his quiet eyes fixed on him, he felt that was made inside a shameful cleavage. He admired the
beauty of this occurrence: a shiver shook her back; emerged in memory of past pleasures ... And
at the same time, there was another Ferragut within it twitched with the Levantine homicidal
violence, which only supports the death revenge.

She was to blame for everything. "Ah ... this! "

He tore the picture, but then was picking up the pieces, and eventually save between papers.

His
anger changed objective. Freya, in fact, was not the main culprit of the death Stephen. He thought
of the other, the false diplomatic, at the Von Kramer had perhaps directed the torpedo that
broke his son ... Would not the devil that you encounter any time?

... What a pleasure to be alone two, face to face!

At last he fled from the solitude of the cabin, which tormented him with the wishes of impotent
revenge. With Toni, atop the ship, he felt better ... And with a humble kindness never met
his second, the goodness of pain and misfortune, talked and talked, enjoying the care of their
single listener, as if telling stories to a circle of wonderful children.

In the Strait of Gibraltar he described the great power supply sent
by the Ocean the Mediterranean, and in that time helped to push the
propeller on the ship.

Without this Atlantic current, the mare nostrum, which lost a lot of atmospheric evaporative
more water than it contributed rains and rivers would dry in a few centuries. Was calculated
I could disappear in four hundred sixty years, leaving traces of their existence as a salt
layer of fifty-two feet thick.

Born in their big breasts and numerous deep freshwater springs on the coast of Asia Minor, Morea,
Dalmatia and southern Italy, received also a considerable contribution Black Sea, because it, unlike
the Mediterranean, with rainfall monopolized and drag rivers of water than lost by evaporation, sent
through the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles in the form of surface
current.

But these inflows, although they were large, lost its importance compared with the renovation of
the ocean current.

Atlantic waters entering the Mediterranean so powerfully, they could not stop course or contrary
winds or the movement of reflux. Sailing ships had to wait sometimes months at a strong wind
that helps them overcome the impetuous mouth Strait.

- That I know very well - said Toni -.

Once, going to Cuba, were in sight of Gibraltar more than fifty days, advancing and losing the
way, until a favorable wind made us overcome the current and out into the great sea.

- The current that - added Ferragut - was one of the causes that precipitated
the decline of the Mediterranean sea in the sixteenth century.

We had to go to the Indies newly discovered and the Catalan sea or the Genoese remained here in
the Straits for weeks struggling with air and water to the contrary, while Galicia, the Basque, French
and English, who had left while its ports were already close to America ... Fortunately, Steam
navigation has us all equal.

Toni silently admired his captain. What I had learned in books that filled his cabin! ...

It was in the Mediterranean where the men had committed first to the waves. The civilization from
India, but Asian people could not make the learning of sailors in a sea where the coast is very
distant from each other and monsoons Indian Ocean blowing six straight
months in one direction and six months in another.

Only to reach the Mediterranean, in their migrations by land, the white man had wanted to be
a sailor. This sea, which compared to others is just a lake dotted with islands, was offered as
a school. Any wind leaving its sails, was sure of arriving at a hospital bank. The sweet breezes
and irregular rotated with the sun certain times of the year. The hurricane crossed the river, but
never fixed. There were no tides. Its ports and steps were not dry, its coasts and islands were
often to so close, who were among them, their land, beloved of heaven, received the sweetest
eyes from the sun.

Ferragut evoked the memory of men who had crossed the sea for centuries as far that history did not
mention them. As only traces of their existence were the nuraghs talayots Sardinia and the Balearic
Islands, giant tables made with blocks, barbarous altars huge boulders, reminiscent of the menhirs
and dolmens Celts the coast of Brittany. These people had gone dark, from island to island, from
the bottom Mediterranean to the Straits, which is its door.

The captain imagined their boats made of tree trunks just trimmed,
moved to paddle, or rather thrust of a shovel, no other help than
a rudimentary sail only ex-tended to blow from astern.

The first Europeans Navy was equal to that of the wild islands of Oceania, who are still currently
in its fleet of logs of islands in the archipelago.

So they had dared to break away from the coast, losing sight of land, venturing into the wilderness
blue, advised of the existence of the humps steamy islands of mountains
marked on the horizon at sunset.

Each advance in the Mediterranean sea this stammering had shown greater audacity and waste of
energy that the discovery of America or the first trip around the world ... These early sailors
threw themselves not to the sea ??adventures: they were people en masse, taking with them
families and animals. Tribes, Once installed on an island, let loose fragments of his own
life, who came to colonize, through the waves, other land nearby.

Ulysses and his second major disasters thought ignored by history: the storm surprised to exodus
navigator, whole fleets of rude rafts swallowed by the abyss within
minutes, families dying clutching their pets when they were going
to try a new breakthrough in its embryonic civilization.

To get an idea of ??what were their small boats, fleets recalled Ferragut of the Homeric poems, created
many centuries later.

Winds instilled a religious terror sea ??to the warriors gathered to fall over Troy. Their ships remained
chained a year in Aulis ports for fear of hostility in the air, and appease Mediterranean to the gods
sacrificed the life of a virgin.

Everything was danger and mystery in the realm of the waves.

The roaring chasms, crags barked Sirens were singing the pitfalls that were attracted to his music
to craft to disintegrate. There was no particular god island, no monster, no mage Cyclops or
warping of artifice. The terror was the first god of the seas. The man, before he tamed the elements,
tribute them more superstitious fears.
A material factor was strongly influenced by changes in the Mediterranean
life. The Sandy, moved to the whim of the currents, ruined the village
or climbed to the top an unexpected prosperity. Famous cities in history
were not present more than streets of debris at the foot of a hill
crowned by the remains of a castle Phoenician, Roman, Byzantine, Saracen,
or the time of the Crusades. In other centuries had been known ports:
before its walls naval battles were fought. Now, from the ruined Acropolis
barely reached to see the Mediterranean as a faint blue band at the
end of the low, marshy plain. Sand had moved the old sea port with
a distance of miles ... By contrast, cities went inland to be places
of shipment, the continued drilling of the waves they would find.

The
wickedness of man had imitated the work of destruction of nature.
When a republic expired maritime republic to another rival, the first
thing I thought was obstructing port sand and stones, in perverting
the course of the water so that it became earthly city, losing their
fleets and their traffic. The Genoese, winners of Pisa, blinded by
its port with the sands of Arno, and the city of the first conquerors
Mallorca, sailors to the Holy Land, the Knights of St. Stephen, guardians
of the Mediterranean, to be passed Pisa's dead, people who know only
by hearsay sea.

- Sand - ended by saying Ferragut - has changed in
the Mediterranean trade routes and historical destinations.

Of the
acts had been to stage the mare nostrum, most famous for Captain was
the unprecedented issuance of almogávares to east, the saga of Roger
de Flor, which he known since childhood by stories of the poet Labarta,
Triton and the poor secretary of people who dreamed at all hours with
the bygone grandeur of the sea in Catalonia.

Everyone talked in months
of the blockade of the Dardanelles. Vessels plying the Mediterranean,
as merchants the war, worked for the major operation military that
was unfolding before Gallipoli. The name of the long dead sea which
separates Europe from Asia was in every mouth. The eyes of humans
converged at this point, as in the remote ages of the Trojan War.

-
We too have been there - Ferragut said proudly -. The Dardanelles
have been for several years in Catalonia and Aragon. Gallipoli was
a city ruled by our Valencian Ramon Muntaner.

And began the story
of the conquest of the East almogávares, romantic odyssey, barbarous
and bloody through the ancient Asian provinces of the Roman Empire,
which only came to end with the founding of a Spanish duchy of Athens
and Neopatras in the city of Pericles and Minerva.

The chronicles
of the Middle Ages East, the Byzantine romances, stories paladinescos
the Arabs had no more sudden and dramatic adventure that the issuance
of these Argonauts from the valleys of the Pyrenees, the banks of
the Ebro and the Moorish gardens of Valencia. For many years prevailed
in Bithynia, the Troy, Ionia, Thrace, Macedonia, Thessaly and Attica.

Grandparents
glory of the conquerors of America and the Spanish infantry of thirds,
these almogávares were tireless walkers, dressed and armed to the
light. They used simple wool bibs when all the warriors were covered
with iron, opposed the javelin throwing to the heavy spear, leaping
like cats on the armored knight to stab his broad sword through the
interstices of the reinforcement