 

In one of these days of deep anger roaring life of Josephine ran imminent danger. When practice was
called into the dining room to give her lessons. Concha settled in his chair and took undisguised
delight the fatal chest whale. That day I asked the reasonable sufficiency of body blows. The
girl went to her trembling as long as you delivered the books. And I began to recite a chapter
of stuttering lips history sacred when it came to interrupt Manin. He went to his eternal green
jacket, short pants, great calanes filthy, shaking the floor with spiked boots. This dress, archaic
in the province, owed much of its notoriety and fame of terrible hunter bear he had seen. He went with
his head down as usual, and sprawled under lintel of the door, asked:

- Concha, is not there for what, to eat there?

- So much you tighten
the gazuza, Manin? - The seamstress replied, laughing.

The village opened his mouth to laugh too.

- So help me God, I can not stand a Menut more.

You seem Toos barefooted friars in this house you do not like it comes more than When the time
comes.

- I, I go there, great glutton, rodent - Concha said posing on the chair and the book dirge
with whale and petulant way to the sideboard.

They understood admirably. The seamstress was surly, cruel, intractable, but the butler knew of it
gathering the few bits of humor that was in the body. The woo brutally pinched her passing,
I said billion gross effrontery to understand that backwards. And the microscopic maid, who was
gentle and nice and in whom the rough character had put down every trace of coquetry, transformed
into a priestess of pain, cumene in a fatal and pitiless, he let himself complacently by brute
celebrate. Le amused his daring, his rudeness, his greed and careless insolent manner he had to
treat everyone, even the high and mighty lord of Quiñones.

Manin was a solemn scoundrel. With that foul rudeness, the attitude of daring hunter of wild beasts
and bizarre herding had learned to live very pleasing in this world, not calloused hands, broken
or the spines back in her village with the farm chores.

Seamstress pulled a plate of cold meat and put it on the rubber of the table, napkin or anything
like it, then cut in half a loaf and put it with the necessary bottle white wine glass, next
to the meat. The bear hunter began to devour. Concha sat down again, and she came and repeated
the words he had uttered. A few moments bang! a ballenazo and a cry of pain. Immediately another
hit and another cry. And so on. The seamstress was delighted to discover that the girl stumbled
more than other times.

Manin engulfed in silence, returning only occasionally eyes marked indifference to the sad
scene. Soon, as machine began to whisper to each stroke: "Dale! Atiza!
Good was that!

Go one hand and similar !...» exclamations.

He finished the lesson of sacred history.

Before taking the grammar was a break. The seamstress began to banter with the butler. He was
an angelic mood.

- What about meat?

- Rich, rich indeed!

- The worst thing is that you will remove the appetite for lunch.

Trembled the room with the laughter of the laborer.

- That's it!

To me anything like it takes me!

You'll have to get me a hot iron in the water like a lady.

- In the belly I had to put, big pig.

- Look, Concha, I seek tickles, because even if you're a young girl and you have to sandunga very
roguish eyes and mouth like a cherry, one day you find, not knowing where wine, a setback that
will uproot this little run of pearls that are teaching me.

- Hush, hush, viejote, zapalastrón! Well you and for setbacks! If you can not with panties! If you
and hastily!

- That's not what you say with your heart, that's why you expected.

You know that a lot in here involved yet (and was rude punched in the chest). If you cogiera
in a cornfield!

- As if I cogieras in the marketplace! Na.

You do not have more than jaws and gab.

- And hands apalpar the grace of God - "said the barbarian taking with the hairy paw Beard seamstress.

-
Quito, Quito! Gorrinazo!

And he hit the whale with a tap on the fingers. He turned to ramming and she gandulote fend off the
same way. He tried to grab her by the waist.

The maiden rose and ran around the room, pretending to be angry.

- Do not touch me, Manin! Look what I call the lady.

But he would not listen.

The grunts and laughter pursued pitching; abrazábala here soltábala there, getting in his
cheeks, rough and tough like the skin of an elephant, slapping the home, without showing feeling
them. Creaking furniture, the floor trembled, bells crockery in the cupboards. He unabated.
Increasingly zalamerón false. I knew the rogue that this slut was awake irascible and devilish vanity,
like all beings human capital and that it was relevant to her belly to keep her happy. Finally,
launching lowing a real beef, got her by the waist and lift in the air. Mantúvola up without
effort, like a little boy of three years.

- What now? What do you say now, Zapaquilda? Where are these livers? Where those hands? Anda
Witch asks forgiveness, if not, I dropped like a frog - the cazurrón roared, shaking her in air.

-
Let me, Manin! Let me, jackass! There cochinazo! Look to cry!

Finally put it gently on the floor. The girl, breathless, disheveled, knitting much eyebrows
to appear more angry, breathless voice said:

- Have you no shame, Manin. If it were not staring at the house where we are, you pulled the lamp
the nose and you broke them by gross and insolentón. Maybe they are the servants hearing all this,
and what will they say? Quito, Quito there! I do not ever say word, because I do not answer.

-
That! Shout now, conceited, then did you see God - snoring Manin sarcastically, looking at sideways
and rubbing his beard.

- If you do not remove from my sight, baldragote !...-- the tiny maid exclaimed, passing her despite
flashes of laughter from his eyes.

Manin sat down again to engulf the remaining bread and drink another
glass of white.

Josefina while sobbing in a corner, clutching his injured mouth,
feeling the cheeks black and blue by the calves.

Manin she deigned to take a look.

- Do not cry, tontine, the pain of the lashes and science will be in you pate forever - he said
with his knife cut a piece of bread and putting it in the mouth .-- If you want my opinion, the more you
stick together you must be happier. What would you be if Shell had no mercy to punish you hard?
A chafandina that would not be a bushel acorn, a beast, it saves
the comparison.

Now what will you be? A woman too so pa it asks. (Pause while cutting another piece of bread
and grind it, raising a lump as fist in the right cheek) ... Come
on, if I'd had teachers like you lifting up my to whip the hide would
not be an ass, I would call Manin, but Don Manuel, and instead Sudit
be a miserable, would walk around giving me important, walking with
Altavilla back as the lords hands and reading the newspapers in the
casino.

(Another pause and another amputation the mud) ... Get in the right if you caletre for it. How
do you learn those without some things so convoluted lampreazos?
Who learned Daquan never without spanking?

Nobody. Well, then! If you had knowledge, child, you give thanks to God for having put a teacher
who is like a glory. To serve the endin too, for his hands are too thin and feet ready, eh, you?

Concha
had been serious again, sitting down and doing an imperious gesture
to the girl to approach.

Tocábale the turn of the grammar.

Walked here even worse than ever, séase lack of memory or because they fear the mob. Began
thrashing: a ballenazo now and then another and another and another. Manin, true to his educational,
clapping mouth full, serious cutting, carefully, in geometric pieces of bread before to lead in
all seriousness to his lips. The faults were many, the blows were many others. But at the end
of the lesson, Concha considered more appropriate punishment each
violation, taking into account how badly she had done, it was appropriate
to end with a general bashing that comprise all.

He lifted the chair and brandishing a formidable whale said:

- Now, for you to study better and you will awaken the senses, making!

Were so many tough blows, the creature, trying to escape that martyrdom, caught with his hands clenched
to the skirts of his executioner.

Somehow, perhaps by having hung them unconsciously, that held the tape broke and came to the
ground, leaving only the seamstress shirt. He gave a cry of shame
and quickly lifted.

But without stopping to tie the ribbon again, looking deep grudge against the girl stay out
of the hands holding them.

- Have you done, good, good, good! - Manin said, neatly carving bite
to would lead to the mouth.

The creature, paralyzed with terror, not crying.

Not even the wounds ached. After few moments he appeared again accompanied by Mrs. Concha. This
came smiling sarcastically.

- Apparently, Miss now likes the girls to undress in front of men. Will you be happy, lady, is not
it? Manin've seen it everywhere Concha. Right, Manin, who has been comfortably?

He took a few steps. The girl drew back frightened.

- Do not worry, miss. Calm yourself, lady. I do not come here to whip you. That the whipping is
very old. Who remembers and whipping! Just come to invite you to take a turn in the cave ... Cave
of the mice ... you know. There can entertain in a rat stripped of many that come to visit ...
Come on, give me hand for the lead with all ceremony.

The girl went to stand behind a chair, thence, pursued by Amalia and Concha, ran around the
table and finally took refuge behind the butler.

- Manin! Manin, by God, hide me!

But he grabbed her arm and handed it to the lady. Each one by one they took the hand and dragged
her, despite his piercing cries.

- A cave no! In the cave no! Godmother, sorry! Kill me first. It seems I have a lot of fear!
The cave is not that I eat the mice!

The servants went out into the hallway and witnessed the scene silent and serious. The cries of
the girl went missing in the dark and winding staircase leading to the basement.

Amalia opened the door of the terrible cave and pushed her daughter
into the interior.

Closed fury, but she ran towards the exit door and took her hand. They heard a cry heartbreaking.
The Valencia opened the door again, gave a strong boost to the creature she fell to the floor
and locked it.

The cave was damp and black dungeon where only penetrated a few faint rays of light a porthole open
on top. He served in the past to wine cellar.

Now there was no there than empty bottles.

The little girl was alone stood up, looked around mad with terror, tried to scream and Her voice knotted
in the throat, and finally, extending his hand, attack of a strong
earthquake, fell faint.

After half an hour the groom, who had witnessed
the closure, moved by compassion, He approached the door and looked
through the keyhole. Could see nothing. He called very softly.

-
Josephine.

The girl did not respond. He knocked louder. The same
silence. Startled, she screamed and hit the door with all his might
not get answered. Then he hastened to give up part of what was, at
the risk of losing their jobs. Amalia Concha sent the key to see what
was happening. Between her and Paula went to the creature senseless,
cold and rigid, with the characters of death printed on the face.
Fearful of the complications that This would occur, the Grandee's
wife rushed to get her into bed. Took little small to herself, but
immediately declared a high fever. Llamosa doctor. Found her badly.
To explain the wound of the hand and the cardinals presented, Amalia,
fertile in lies, invented a story that the doctor believed, or pretended
to believe.

He was between life and death a few days. Amalia was
with eye during disease. No loss hurt the creature on which he had
poured the bitter gall your heart, but he waved the idea of ??losing
at once his vengeance. Just the third days of being in bed Josephine,
was reported last night that Fernanda had left in the post-chaise
to Madrid, and Luis only take four or five days to meet with it. Experienced
violent shaking. A seething wave of bile filled his chest. That night
had a fever too. He escaped! There was no possible retaliation for
the traitor. Go to Madrid, marry, maybe there would receive the news
of the death of his daughter cry a little, after the caresses of his
beloved wife would forget it. Love those so long, so alive, there
would be more than a man walking his happiness in Europe, and Lancia
a poor old woman serving sad scoffing to the corridors of Altavilla.
Their flesh flaccid trembled. Vengeful instincts of their race shouted
angry, overwhelming. No, could not be! Before throwing his daughter
dead at the foot, before stick a dagger in the heart.

He thought,
singular and terrible to tell her husband everything. Knew what it
give of themselves, but for now would cause a scandal. D. Peter was
violent, had great power and prestige. Who knows the havoc that could
cause the pump? True, he was paralyzed and could not take revenge
into their own hands, but what would happen to not be so arrogant
man and punctilious means of returning the wrong which he felt? She
would fall among the ruins, but fall with the traitor like if somehow
paid their perfidy.

After much struggle with this thought, not risking
to confess by word or write under his signature, sent to D. Pedro,
disguising the letter, an anonymous letter. "The girl you've collected
six years ago is the daughter of his wife and a gentleman who frequents
home and who you call your friend