 

But do not confuse this guan, bare to cry, with which we have stopped peeling to the late at
night, free, alone together, the Romeo and Juliet to the low gate .-- Here discreteo disappears,
here is disputed, as in the balustrade of Verona, on whether it is lark or the nightingale
who sings, here speaks for ecstasy lovers, while the relentless clock every hour they will
notice that it took hours for eternity depleted his youth and his happiness; hours may be the last
of its placid conferences, if parental opposition prevails and the girl marries the rich,
in spite of tutear the student; hours discounted to hope, debit immortal human heart, which never
pays what he owes, but instead is always confident of the craziest lender wishes!

And since we left the temple of Cupid by this unexpected escape route of interest, seize the moment
to show that the province of Granada is the land of marriages uneven, or is of amorous liaisons between
poor and rich, wealthy and penniless .-- Hence many turkeys underground roar .-- Parents for judicial
deposit and honeymoon; but then the subject arranged grandchildren!

* * *

Miss some wealthy family of the middle class tends to copy,
and copy divinely all they do the rich and aristocratic, as I have
said that the distinction and served the manor common denominator
of those exquisite creatures, whatever their social status .-- The
force that happens is that the young low-income translates to velvet
merino the lace to tulle, satin to taffeta, organza and gro to Batista
to the Indian.

Itself Similarly, if you little theater, the Lyceum is much, if not drive, sit in chairs Career
Sunday, and if you were never in the opera, often playing to hear the bands military the cheesy
sublime .-- La Traviata Because this young lady now speak, is aficionadísima to music, and if they
can stretch their parents something to his leg, has piano and voice teacher ..... Reading
is also very much! admirable and moral criteria and art ..... Everything beautiful, everything
is high echo in their hearts, and everything pathetic many tears in his eyes.

By the way, and in parentheses: Although Granada is saved far from liberal, humble crib that has
had, although it is monarchical and religious through and through (how to forget Ferdinand
and Isabella?), and attached, therefore, the old regime, making common cause with a revolutionary,
a conspirator, who died on the scaffold for having some flag embroidery .-- Constitution will
understand that I refer to the famous Dona Mariana Pineda heroin
..... In the case of the Mariana and the Grenadines do not have opinions!

All the admired, the pity, cry and give him the true worship. For them, this tragic event is the
only thing that has occurred in Granada since the expulsion of the Moors !..... Of the rest
are not aware .....-- Ni What is the rest?

The aforementioned young ladies between worship and honor are perhaps the most enjoyable of
the charms and natural dying art of the big city. As well as the poor mean least in the present, more
earnestly cling to the past! They are, therefore, the paid to the lunch and dinner in the hotels
of the Alhambra, where, incidentally, is celebrated fausto everything that happens in people's wedding,
marriage, baptism, the degree of licensing, promotion, the transaction,
the return, the challenge frustrated ..... (We might say La Alhambra
is a venerable grandmother who report all happy and prosperity of
race, to cheer his old age.) They go up to the Torre de la Vela to
watch (once per year, on January 2, the anniversary of the Assumption),
the four cardinal mighty panoramas Granada and its surroundings.
