 Therefore resolved Fr Visitor Juan Bautista de Zea, left the road old, throwing
the East to the river to a Rancheria Parapití Chiriguaná called Charagua through which that river,
here with two chiefs tried to guide him to where he had come Fr Suárez, offering them to the
point, anticipating our good pay; but the day before departure, being well taken of chicha, which
is their wine, they discovered As plotted in his heart, and was the cause of all their relatives
had boarded anger because the Fathers taught that way which would come forward to steal and
make them slaves Mamalucos, saying it was better to kill them to batons, or if not what least
lead them to where tigers hiciesen havoc on them bosses, however, wanted keep them up and speak
without claiming any of these reasons, desire more profit who drew, that certainty that they
had of the dangers that might happen. For so the next day were ready to go promptly serves parents
and escorted until Parapití.

Missing a few miles to get to the place where P. Suarez had turned
back when two chiefs were left out of the mouth these words: "Great
pity we have for you, because you have to rob and kill Tuquís that
run through this path.

" Tuquís call the people who are not of their nation.

Fr Visitor did not understand them and wanted to move on, but we recommend their colleagues suspected
the Chiriguanos plotting some treachery, and that under the pretext
of Tuquís wanted to conceal their plots, because beyond them there
were others in the country that had While registered Chiquitos, therefore,
under pretext that the animals were tired and could not walk the way
they were missing, were quick to go back to escape the nails of those
barbarians who steal for only the poor little things they carried,
I wanted to treason.

And do not be deceived, because they found many crews those barbarians who, when asked where
they were going, they replied that to fish in the Parapití; but they escaped from the hands of
these fish were about to search.

Not entirely lost so long a journey, not the hardships and suffered such earnest work operators,
arranging God for the souls of two children got the happy fate of predestination.

Were they in Charagua and to expire, when they were called to our body applied to them some
relief, but seeing them lost hope of temporal life, they sought the
remedy of the soul with the holy baptism, and barely received when
they were to enjoy this bliss, blind parents, both hated.

Which filled joy both to those apostolic men, that they just seemed so well spent so much sweat
and toil.

Because of these pregnancies could not get the little ones to mid December with they were obliged
to halt in the reduction of San Francisco Xavier by rains and flooded the country.

Few people found the P. Zea Visitor Reductions, because only the Indians had raised their homes
and picked up some harvests to support themselves, when left to point to recognize the country
and its borders and spy on the villages of the infidels, because
it had been customary his old war again with the confining and take
them as slaves, they used that the ours to expand the glory of God
and the benefit of those unbelievers who lived in the darkness of
death and infidelity; persuadiéronles, therefore, that the settlements
were for the surrounding, but without causing the least harm or the
lives or the estates; rather that with kindness and other good manners,
be given them knowledge of God and heavenly things, teaching them
the purpose for which they were raised and lived in the world, need
to embrace the law of Christ to be eternally happy, and to endeavor
to make the affection of any of them, to serve as a guide to the Missionaries
and first successfully performed.

The good Christians as promptly began to exercise the lesson were
given, which not even slightly beyond it, were left to smash the Barbarians,
which was so necessary to explain what they could do if they should
be attacked for that did not happen in future what happened to some
Indians of the Reduction of St. Joseph, as they went in search of
Salinas Rancheria gave an infidel entered it without arms, displayed
only the standard with the image of Our Lady, and soft words tried
to tame and polite ferocity of the inhabitants, but they looked at
them askance, fell upon them like tigers and made them as cruel havoc
that only an Indian with two boys escaped with his life.

Same, if not worse, because they were more in number, came to the San Juan Bautista. Internáronse them
in enemy territory, eighty more miles to a land of infidels fenced around of deep pits of water,
beside which they had made their homes, entered into ours and two of its inhabitants alone,
because others were working in the field, came out to meet them and to threaten them with their
arrows.

Displaying one of these that Christians did not desist from moving forward, struck with a bolt
that bore the image of Our Lady, whom they did other damage that removing weapons (Stunning
sight to be a miracle even in the profiteers in the spirit, not into
barbarians, in whose hearts more than revenge in the body the soul),
but women up arms, went to the fields to warn the men, who, left the
work, returned to the point with the intention of making them a great
slaughter, but seeing the number, with self-harm and having tried
other times the courage and encouragement of the Chiquitos, stopped
and prevented the table in which repair of hunger, speaking more by
signs than words being of different languages.

Soon after came the chief, that the point was removed and ordered his men who collected weapons than
ours, in peace, had put down.

They had reluctantly that the Chiquitos, but their captain, fervorosísimo in faith, whereas
before to become like a beast, he issued the dejasen take, trying with such kindness beat and gentle
affection and will, and their souls for Christ.

But it took little because after that the barbarians were unarmed loaded on them and had done
them a great slaughter, until they left none alive, if not a few have entered in the trenches, were
many wounded, and took many months in the body signals fervor and desire in their breasts encouraged
to shed the blood of Christ.

One of them was wounded in the stomach, and the arrowhead damaged his entrails; which with great
difficulty brought him to the house in the arms of others, and bedridden for a long time until
he had no more than the skin on the bones, loss of hope to heal treated a missionary to arrange
for his death, telling him to forgive his enemies and had by happy to give their lives to bring to
others with the Gospel, which mimics the Redeemer good who apologized for his enemies to his Eternal
Father, loving them with infinite love in return of injuries received.

The good Indian heard with pleasure, and with tears of tender affection, and offered to God forgave
his life for the salvation of those who had so grievously offended,
and so was administered Sacraments and waiting for her happy moments
transit to a better life.

The next day the nurse asked what state was the patient, who responded to I was out of danger, and
that he had received that Lord had taken away all evil.

Father did not quite believe it, but finding it was true, asked the Indian, healthy, had happened.
For he met, saying: "The Lord, yesterday you gave me, set me free and tonight I threw away all
evil. "

Using this case, urged the missionary to those new Christians to persevere in good start and
to love God with this miracle expressed how much he liked her fervor.

But there are many who take revenge of that cruelty, because the walk also Piñocas them in search
of souls, they found anything with them, and recognizing Rosaries and wearing crosses around their
necks, remains of the dead (these are the trappings and ornaments so dear to those Christians),
even with all that they had not been attacked, if remorse of conscience
had not fueled the Infidels, which, while were put into weapons, Piñocas
received from such a burden, many of them were dead ground and among
the chief author of the betrayal.

Better luck ran other Indians in the same reduction of San Juan Bautista,
which entered in Rancheria Puraxís, managed to reduce to the Santa
Fe fifty families, and with them cheerful and happy, they turned to
their encampment.

As reported on P. Visitor of the strange encounter of the Reduction of St. Joseph, ordered from
the same town a hundred Indians, armed with weapons, became not to punish the cruelty of those
evil, but to bring the bones of the dead to give honorable burial
and with good manners, but always with weapons in hand, I certify
truly the end because they were his people and love that even after
that committed barbaric atrocity, they had.

Left point, and although at the cost of great works by the lack of
water, so that they had to cool the thirst, but a bit of dew collected
in the wild thistles finally arrived at the scene of the killing,
which only found the bodies of his brothers, but not to the killers,
whom the fear of punishment forced to retreat to where so easily could
not be found.

Christians wanted to go on your monitor, but not being practical in the ways deferring this
company for more timely and carrying on their shoulders the bodies, they turned its reduction,
which had no little matter of joy in the two towns that saw it founded again, the one with the
title of St. Ignatius of Bocas, and the other of the Conception where people came together very
different language, that in his travels to the South VP had discovered
Lucas Caballero.

Noted by the first Superior Fr Joseph de la Mata, and he went by his
companion, rare example and edification of all in using the office
to pick the most field crops hard and strewn with thorns and crosses
(that give more evidence below).

But this zeal was to cost him life soon, because as he was truly Missionary Apostolic unable
to sleep and rest, just arrived at the new point reduction if wanted to win for Christ to the
Auropés and Tabacis, still need to get through deep swamps and ponds, walking many times washed,
and water falling from the sky and the heavy sweating it was resolved to conquer or lighter
than a few pregnancies. From here it originated humor evil that runs through the body, it took
all soon with a monstrous swelling as dangerous as life, not having
gone to the P. Mata with some remedies, not both for their activity
as the will of God, was repaired somewhat, and to be restituyese entirely
to its former health, it was necessary mudase of scenery, going to
San Rafael, where he wide field to exercise their zeal, coming to
hunt beasts sound (it would allow call barbarians) which domesticated
reduced the fold of the Church.

It seemed he was going to compete with the V. Father Knight to win souls for God and for himself
very many merits, and it is my duty to give here in full the heroic virtues news of them both:
for the first time I have down timely; of Luke give the VP in subsequent
chapters, concluding the story with the most happy suffered martyrdom
the year 1711.

CHAPTER X

Birth, entry into the Company and first fervor of the venerable P. Lucas Caballero.

Born venerable P. Lucas Villamar, instead of Castilla la Vieja. His parents were of the main
him and arranged in fortune. He spent the first years of his childhood home an uncle, a priest
of ejemplarísimas customs, and who learned a lot of maturity trial and gravity in action, so
that the children had nothing childish or show tenderness, but in piety, or taste, but in the
exercises of devotion, and all showed a virgin modesty, so delicate, that was offended to see
or hear actions or words unless modest.

Having passed that holy priest to a better life, went to live with another uncle, also priest,
but in different ways and proceed, however that, the child devotee strengthened with the grace
of the Holy Spirit with the lowest defect marred the innocence of his innocence, but to keep it
pure neglect was perhaps the authority of his uncle who was broken customs, remained modest, retired
and paying attention only to things of the soul and service of God.

He learned the rudiments of grammar in our St. Ambrose College in
Valladolid where the treatment of our people took to the Company and
asked to be admitted bodies in it, and made the usual examinations
and tests, passed the novitiate of Villagarcía, large Seminar religious
and apostolic men in both worlds.

Filled the expectations here for he had with the fervor of spirit and innocence of life, having
all your taste in God.

He had by this time news of the arrival in Spain of Fr. Christopher and Thomas Grijalva Domidas,
prosecutors in this province, who came from evangelicals to farm
workers and maintain this extensive vineyard of the Lord.

Then kindled fervent desires to be one of those listed to go to India, to which so the Lord
God made repeated pleas to be his Divine Majesty deign choose it to spread its glory and bring
the light of faith to those who live in the shadows gentility, offering prompt willing to work
and to the perils of life to shed their blood for the faith.

Pleased to heaven as these deals were to understand the effects, for holding him the Upper
and working for large companies in the service of God, some of the
solid virtues license was granted, and shortly afterwards, accompanied
by another seventy missionaries was given in Cadiz to sail, and after
a laborious navigation that killed eight of the ours arrived in Buenos
Aires, the first port of this province, and from there to Cordova
of Tucuman, where, with clever credit completed his studies.

Do not want to ignore what he humility, and for our instruction, referred to a confidant his,
and was seeing on the philosophy that superior to the other classmates in the functions home, got
carried away in some vain self-complacency and neglect recitation prayer of the angelic doctor, he
used before the study, but it originated here oscurecérsele somewhat
understanding, and it was necessary after much sweat and work to understand
the theological disciplines.

Finished his studies and received holy orders, he used his zeal in Missions jurisdiction of the city
of Cordoba with the same glory of God and use of souls and the Indians and the Spanish, whose
poverty they live in those deserts and land no other doctrine or instruction in the law of God
to give them our own when they to their farms and ranches, it being
for them the day of Easter and the highest devotion throughout the
year thus collected abundant harvest of souls and work, those for
Christ and these for themselves, as this mission more difficult and
laborious that we have.

From there, he turned to the conversion of the Pampas Indians bordering
on the bishopric, which company tried to go through with commitment
because it pierced his heart the loss of so many souls stuck in the
darkness of paganism, living as they live so close to the splendours
of Gospel.

It is not easy to relate how much sweat and work to reduce to these infidels, but all in vain
because they stubbornly refused to receive the holy baptism and reduced to political life,
it was compelled to abandon them completely to avoid losing a life
time and wishes burning in his chest most extensive and spacious field
where the harvest was more certain, and less resistance from the ground
to receive the seed of the Gospel.

At this time it was more heat to undertake the mission and reduced Chiriguaná and Chiquitos, so
that the Father asked and obtained to be designated by one of the first to who touched the fate
of reducing those Gentiles to the knowledge of their Creator.

Put him to care for the Reduction of Our Lady of Guapay, where he spent two years, achieving
more fruits of patience, hunger, thirst, taunts and insults of the infidels souls for Christ
to be the Chiriguaná barbarians, extremely stubborn, to whom punishment or intimidate domesticated
or benefits, because the Lord God having used them to both media, and trying to lure them with
miracles and with the fervor of apostolic men, already staggering with raging storms and lightning
in the sky, and with famine and pestilence in the land, persevere
obstinate in his obstinacy.

Accustomed as these barbarians to throw off the yoke of the Gospel soft because they are already angry
VP zeal of Lucas and colleagues, pretending that they had only come to their land together and
deliver to the Mamalucos of Brazil, they threw the country and destroyed the church they had
made, for whose sake he retired to the Chiquitos, in the town of San Francisco Xavier, where finding
the ground more willing to cultivate the faith, attending to those
new with incredible zeal and faithful love and truth, it was necessary
good spirit and enthusiasm for come and assist the needs of this church,
no less distressed than the plague shortages of everything needed,
giving no respite day or night to the fatigue and work he fell seriously
ill with the last moment of life, with extreme pain his companions
venerated him as a saint, and the neophytes who loved him as his Father.

But

in this affliction God would comfort them all in a short time giving full health regase with their
blood to this new vineyard of the Lord (condition apparently required for rooted faith to stay in
fields where plant) that henceforth he reported abundant fruits.