 In ordering furniture, clothes and bottles and bottles of potions, straightened rugs
and mats, which were plentiful in the soil, graduated and headed in light of the paneled window and
coming in the door so not to give in full in the face of sick, and he even cleaned the cold,
clammy sweat that glistened on his forehead, and he arranged covers and pillows, but this, as well
as when working out, without make noise or raising dust or cause the slightest mortification
to the patient. I was glad contemplate that beneficent fairy work. My uncle, choking cough,
awakening some sometimes from their slumber, opened his eyes, his gaze fell upon us hampered and
voracious, and again then closed them to fall back into slumber. When taking advantage of these
joints to give a few sips of broth or "scoop" medicinal "he corresponded" Tomabal between
groans and angry protests stammered.

About noon it cleared a bit and we pondered much how bad it was. Came in Neluco this, and not
by courtesy tried to convince them otherwise. But he urged to carry with patience her work, since
he was not required unless a man of his faith and his belt. To which I replied the patient, with
all the ire he could find in the pile of own ruins:

- Do you still get something of NA paez my patience, condenao? With the mita of what I have loved
you I see mediquín, quacks of demons, to see which side Put them ... Well man! ...

Intervened all inclusive Neluco to calm him down, and calmed down soon, but not the least said
idea of ??preparing for death. On this point the doctor had been very upset. He said, bid farewell
to Don Sabas was absent from the place, helping the dying of another people whose pastor was
ill. Upon hearing he had sent a self, but as to the people had many sticks on the way to measure
and the snow was thickening by the minute, although Don Sabas would try not to lose one when
he heard what was happening in the house, Were you to know what time
the evening was coming, and if you arrive on time and!

Not to get too close to the giant of the table Castañalera impressed him so sadly, ate with him
at all lazy in the kitchen, served by Tona, while his mother kept the patient. That was not
so tasty food for me and I did not forget other, rather than so recent date, so elated that made
those two diners in the latter, somewhat out of respect for the sadness 'official' of the house,
and more for the pain the reasons for the sadness that I gave, ate little and spoke less.
Less talked about yet they, don Pedro Nolasco, who never said a word,
but, instead, what engulf his so great!

Before we finished eating, we learned from Facia the patient had fallen asleep again and that
"the snow was trapeu so again, that was gustu."

I remembered the absence of Don Sabas and the need to made by my uncle, and I received the
news with much pleasure as felt by the mother to give me Tona.

According ran the afternoon, clutching the storm and the anxieties of the patient, was still struggling
with them eyes closed and unaware, apparently, of what was happening. God knows what we are worried
that these symptoms and was eager to insinuate what Neluco wanted, since it is not anticipated
to hint at, but what good would Overture while we did not hand the Priest? These questions and
subsequent questions, was the dark, a little after four, with a trio of snow on the valley
and snow thick and continuous and was alarmed me much, because supposed to Don Sabas on the way
and thought the dangers that could run. Meanwhile, the kitchen is filled little by little people
came to hear of Don Celso and volunteer for all sorts of chores around the house in those test
hours, and I do not dislike me so well together on the occasion of so much trouble. A Don
Pedro Nolasco was happening the same, and even began to talk with fellow members and Laughing allowed
certain predictions about the disease and almost bit old friend your soul ... precisely at
the moment my uncle out of his stupor and after persistent to tour
the room with dazed eyes, said to distress of breathing, as if you
could fit in the chest and an air bubble to another without having
vacated the same:

- Now ... now is to really leave, my children,
and prepare to travel to every rule.

Charity make me tell the priest that I call for what he knows ... if there is any of packages that
I distinguish badly from here, because I do not know if the little light in the room, or because
it has started to fade and my eyes ... Sabas! ... Sabas! ...

All those present heard and callábamos, and we looked at each other not knowing what to say. How to
tell the priest was not in the house or in town? ... But so what obfuscation absurd it was! What
problem was to entertain the impatience, responding who had come to tell and that was about
to arrive? This was going to answer me the same time I approached his bed with Lita and Mari-Pepa,
made a sea of ??tears as Facia was leaning against the back wall with his arms folded, head
bent over chest and eyes, dry, saddened and still, stuck in the face of his corpse master, when
he returned to exclaim, but with a verve inconceivable in its miserable state:

- Sabas! Sabas! ...

By this I heard a harsh beating, as the result of Carrejo in the Hall,
and at the same time a voice that would respond to strong calls:

-
There he goes, jinojo!

...

I knew the voice, jumped back to the door, and saw that the lounge was up package that the same
could be a mountain jaral as should be all those moments, a gauge and hombrazo talares Don
Sabas, for he was snowed head and shoulders and everywhere I looked out a relief, however little,
Espido in their long and garments, and go and shake the very attempt, threw in soil dusty
snow falls, as falls from Matos shakes and shakes when the raging gale. I went to meet him and
shake to help wipe ... nothing, because of two detached bativoleos floating everything dripped
on him. This was, in a jiffy, smooth and mondo from head to toe, that is, short jacket and
hair. While it was stripped of those wraps and accessories, he said:

- Ah! because thanks to the gray horse has more guts than Paez, and was able to footman that I carried
him halfway to the legs, if not ... Jinojo! I tell thee that we do not live none of the three,
because I have seen snow as I live, but like this, go, go! ... What happens to poor Don Celso,
man? When I went there I say, not me took fright, because I was afraid I was coming every day.
The worst part was that he dying person, not just unhappy, and it was not to abandon him in
such a trance ... Well Care if you get for not finishing in the afternoon of God ... To all
this, the snow thick and closed roads. Look you what time to put this one in the agony! ... If what
Satan JINCEN the tooth for the souls, is much story! A well that it was not for lack of mine warnings,
but this Celsus, to be as a man of faith, is inherently so ...

All that we said already, and I almost cried, the better the cure to his bedroom door friend,
where he interrupted a call disjointed reasoning as before.

- Sabas! Sabas!

- Here I am, man! "- Replied the priest -. Care is the subject!

... Look, with the rush better Sallu not you have them now ...

- That's it - my uncle grumbled -. For comfort of my ajogos, tíñeme and vociférame, pispajo!

- Do you have to fight, man, do you have to fight! - Don Sabas said to him then that face of those
miserable ruins of his friend and comrade of his life, failed to contain the tears that flowed
in his eyes - or how I will scream! ... Well then would Thus, jinojo! ... but as I came, I
could not come, because of force majeure. And just think you then!

Figúratelo, Celso! ... Go - added suddenly interrupting his speech and passing look around
the room and accented with a movement of his arms, very significant -: here on all but the patient
and me, because what will happen between us, not support one other
witness, who is Lord and Judge of lives and souls.

We leave those who don Sabas sobrábamos and closed the door from inside. I do not know what went
through me then, but I declare that I was very touched and even cried, hiding much like a weakness
unworthy of strong men.

They came the tears shameful "the spread of other more free? Were torn my heart with grief to
see that, my relative in a state so miserable and compassionate?

Am the produce that strange scene he had just witnessed between the priest and the sick, through
whose coarse warp distances left to seek grants and admirable? Might have on them some of each
and every one of these ingredients, but the fact is that I cried, but not as well as women who gathered
with me, as they were entering on tiptoe the room where we were many of the pundits in the kitchen
that had been amassed in Carrejo after the arrival of the priest, transfixed with grief ... and
curiosity.

Facia The light bulb had lit in the bedroom to get out of it, and still kept in hand, lit up a little
darkened those jaws, and so I could glimpse of clogged, materially, huddled figures and oscillating
looked at us with impatience greedy, and even I could have sworn that back in the background,
behind all the mass, but rising one elbow on the head of more Tallud glistened like two lanterns in
a tunnel, big eyes giant green and bulging of the Castañalera.

XXVII

After a while I asked Mari Pepa many things which, in its view, would be necessary there very soon.
I, delegating to her and her daughter had many responsibilities at home delivered them to the
few keys which he kept, and sent to Facia to put on your orders the rest. To send well and soon they
planned, it was necessary to return commentators to the kitchen,
scattered herds here or there, all choked ... and stank, and there
was no way to squirm between them.

They did so to point at my command, and the two women began to raid cupboards, wardrobes and
drawers. Facia guided, and I was like an automaton at three.

While ransacked the bottom drawer of the dresser in my room, opened the door to my uncle Don
Sabas and appeared in the hole. I noticed that out crying and ran to him fearing that already completed
all there, but since I heard coughing halfway to the sick, and this was reassuring. Salióme to
meet the priest, and he said, wiping her eyes with a handkerchief of grass:

- Can not help it, what jinojo! ... more than one is accustomed to contemplate miseries and human
finishers ... Because there are cases and cases, Don Marcelo, and this is one of the peel harder
for the poor priest. Sixty years of living, more than friends, like brothers, and each in
his ministry ... And care if it was his height! ... something rejunde in the bowels ... it seems
to me ... Suddenly he says to the other one: "I go, because I'm leaving ... and never to return:
so you ajústame these accounts that I have to give to God, through you Mesmer how much I owe
and how little and bad that I have paid ... and you stay here, man and alone, until you get
yours, you can not take because no one is old, and you'll see what is jallarte day after day
without longtime friend, who looked and flesh of your flesh and filled the whole place, although
he did not see him ... "Nah, you go and, moreover, namely if getting
one's own, and catch him or catch him Asao, because the flesh is weak,
and Satan not sleeping, and if, for shots or TATS, we find ourselves
not in the other world.

Because it goes well for luggage ... Yes, jinojo! and right as a juso has to raise the soul. At the
human level can not be assumed otherwise, to the preparation he has done, after a life of charity,
that I know by heart ... In short, that it is going, and that we should not sleep to make all
the missing in the trance you see ... You have to viatical immediately, and for that I go to
church now. Note here that is expected God with the pomp that is owed.

They had taken their talares to the kitchen to dry by the fire, and the priest go to pick them
up made people gathered in her the same advice as I am, and then dragged him, Chisco and Pito
least Salces, who ordered me to stay "watching the house, what might happen. " Precautions
idle luxury at that hour (around seven), with a dark as pitch, dropping handfuls of snow,
and with a roaring gale up the mountain, which were scary.

Without worrying much about the poor Marmitón, who was left alone again, lounging, dumb and amazed
at the wooden chair and very leaning to fire, and returned to the apartment of my uncle see
what was going on it after the departure of Don Sabas. It was already known anyone interior, and
even now continue to be transformed by the two tales of the house. In the bedside, the red damask
quilt of the great days, and back on it, the broad and embroidery fold of a sheet of luxury pillows,
with pockets of very large garrisons stiff and escarole, and the
patient himself, with camisole clean, heated just before the brazier
and perfumed with thyme, on the elastic thick coat that harbored the
trunk, along to bed, a carpet mat instead of forever on the dresser,
falling in graceful flags on the sides, another quilt of good house,
and on it, expecting better destination, the ivory crucifix, six silver
candlesticks, a glass of holy water and a sprig bay.

When I arrived, they occupied the two women who appeared to be little devils in your hands,
to replace, helped to Facia, the junk that was always at the bedside, with a square table taken from
my closet, where I used to read and send my correspondence. Ofrecíles my help for that task, but
the disdain with gestecillo Lita very deliberate and two annealed complimentary phrases. While
it took the ailing Facia artifact, tended them on the table another red damask quilt and the
quilt on a very white piece of cloth with lace of many drafts, then moved to the comfortable
at the table the crucifix of ivory, four glass candlesticks and holy water and the sprig of laurel;
then another rug in front of the table, then all strips and arenas that were found to form a
path so long as he could, four beatings on chairs before them in order, a pat over the bed
clothes, a look from afar to the whole so many different things ...
and what was already shipped.

My uncle, meanwhile, gasping and coughing and passing among the gnarled fingers of his right hand
beads and more beads of the rosary, and pray that says through clenched teeth, not take notice
what was happening around him, or answer more than a gesture to the
smaller question vinegary that he did.

Before he died his body was already in another world with the spirit. God was, God was God's only
expected.

I finished fourth, another work was undertaken outside nastier, for which not enough single
women. Mari Pepa scattered on the floor quilts and shawls that had gathered looting and walked
in a mass on the chairs, Lita chose and combined colors and sizes, Salces Pete and I, perched
on tall furniture needed, clavábamos in walls, and as high as we could, studded with spikes ...
up with nails "Trabaderos" and how we could have at hand in the cellar
weep holes that Chisco accumulated stocks of this species, which the
diligent and poring granddaughter of giant Castañalera of us was exquisite
lengthening with his hands, as scattered on the floor.

When walking the mean task bordering on the tolling of a bell, patchy and intermittent, sometimes
remote, now close, as weak cry of agony, sometimes, vibrant and resounding others according to
the whims of wind and stirred encased in the strait and crossroads of valley. It was the first
touch "to manage", the signal was in the church to the neighborhood for the purpose that knew him.
A little while later, the bell stopped and two men with individual arms of candles and tapers who
commanded the priest, ahead. Came emaciated ankles above, but very espelurciados and "ardiéndoles'
noses and ears because, as stated, although it had stopped snowing, the north wind still blowing,
colder than the snow itself. If did not seem bad, quedaríanse there already, it's about being
confident "of Jaller the Lord 'in road, if returned to take the church, there was the rocky
ground with snow layer above had to many ups and downs for him without an emergency. Willingly
assent to appear as sane, and abode of men ... amused and the "visual Pomposú" that would taking
the corridors and stairs of the house with the business that made us sweat. Continuámosla, however,
with renewed energy, but stitch length, ie, thinning the flaps, because could be heard again before
the touch of a sign that had been on the road as we expected, Amen
to that walking on fabric or "hardware" to cover many walls.

To clothe the naked floor traffic, ran Lituca stocking, and planted it itself, fragrant laurel
penquitas abundant in the crevices of the rocks in front. And still had time to fumigate the house with
rosemary and marjoram, burned by her embers of the brazier, leading Salces Pito Chisco and hand
through the rooms, corridors and stairways. Then, candles, candlesticks, candlesticks and lamps,
illuminating even the most obscure and remote; my uncle's room, with six candles and, rechispeando
light, and arm candles brought from the church, burning to the care of two men charged time to
give fate they had; Marmitón framed in the doorway of the kitchen and looking the light cruiser,
not daring to take a step toward him, Mari Pepa coming and going Everywhere, his daughter putting
the finishing touches to the overall picture, without a word and pasmadota Tona, near Don Pedro
Nolasco, Pito and Chisco Salces in the astragalus, each with a candle burning in hand, my uncle,
his eyes half open, leaning against the pillows and prayer without end; Facia, with her best black
dress and attentive to what the patient might need, along at the door of his room, standing motionless and
melancholy, the church bell ringing rhythmically; almost absolute silence in the areas of the
house, and I, stuck like a statue in lounge with views overlooking the room of my uncle and to
cruise the bottom of the passage, watching everything, hearing everything, and prey to emotion,
so complex and strange, not I could explain.

Suddenly, a voice, Tona often leaning out the door to the balcony
of the kitchen shouted from the bottom of the last Carrejo:

- It
vienin!

Cubriéronse head then hurried women, took a candle each of the tending the two men and another
dímosle Don Pedro Nolasco who had moved group, and when I was a prominent
part of him, he soon arrived, all walking and almost stunning giant
rolling, the balcony of the kitchen