 Before the year, Jose was the father of another creature.

Apart weird way to have to trust a child to foreign hands, and excluding fertility Manuela,
the existence of Don Jose was not such as to weave with it a novel.

In many cities was, the work consumed his days and nights the coffee and the leisure reading newspapers,
who was very fond, preferring to progressives: the house, perhaps never considered not certain,
always had little or no attachment. Each transfer was auction, and thus could refer to when old than in
many or few years of service had stayed in forty-two beds, past and obeyed by twenty offices
in more than thirty heads, none of whom he could complain. Don José was born to an employee,
his low intelligence not allowed the luxury of having his own ideas, and it lacked character
and initiative exposure to be a martyr for getting to reform routines. Their impressions, usually little
intense, also kept him away from the excitement and apathy: its great virtue was to love honored
to work with that tenacity of the middle reaches the enviable record name. Something, however,
infuriated him: Carlism. To speak against the tiger Maestrazgo, to Don Luis Fernandez de Cordova
on top of Zumalacárregui and the Espartero clouds, he encouraged his eyes, his tongue gained
strength, color words, and did wonders with the memory. He knew few details of battles, fighting,
games and both armies were marching from the first attempts of Don Carlos María Isidro to the embrace
of Vergara, so that, for the months when the action begins this story followed with great interest
the second significant rise of the absolutist, who always called rebels, because the word seemed
to wrap something offensive. As never left home, his main desire was to buy her newspaper supplements, flyers
or extraordinary which at the year 1872 were published in prodigious numbers, and few friends
went to see him knew their favorite conversation was the course of the war, news of which
he commented with memories of the campaign from 33 to 40, and military movements then, now, by way
of his, to be repeated. But what really impressed listening to was that when dealing with priests
who sent items, spoke of them as the other leaders, Full disregarding his priestly character, but
despite his hatred Carlism exploited the occasion to condemn the conduct of the clergy who did
this. Were just judge them as military commanders greater or lesser importance, but not daring
to download its outrage on them because as ministers of peace, leave the field to kill fellow men.
Sometimes phrases that eluded him, implied that the clergy did not want it, but never out of his
mouth insults and aggressive phrases, and if someone said them in his presence, not only abstained
from him chorus, but seeking to twist the spin conversation. People of their privacy, knowing
that this was the foundation were Fates of adjectives hard to talk about bad priests, and
not spare time instead of compliment to any chaplain who was distinguished by good thing, but
with this we Don Jose does not say in a clear its views on the people of the cloth.