 

D. Martín de las Casas grabbed his left hand arm, and pushing against wall, he threw his voice
Campanula, while brandishing the stick:

- Granujota, indecent! In good place you left you took the dust! Miserable worm, should crush
and cast after a wreck on the street to be eaten dogs! Should nail you by the ears to the wall
and expose to public embarrassment ... At least it should break your
ribs with this stick, and they're giving me feel like it!

It would be difficult, nay, it would almost certainly satisfy this
energetic invalid occasion, as in many others, his greed for bruise
to his fellows, if not except that at this point he brought the hostess.

-
What are you doing, sir?

Mistreating a priest! ... In my house there will be such scandal ...

Spare a bit of surprise Fr Gil, then said firmly:

- Gentlemen, this young man passed out while coming to help me for having fallen. The I went
with here, to beg you, because you want to enter a convent and devote
themselves to God, which opposes his father for no reason or right
and for that brutally abuses her ...

- I mistreat my daughter, villain!
- Shouted at the height of the outrage the hunchback, who had Obdulia
transporting got into bed and was about to throw water on the face
lies .-- and lies you say so.

I did not even know he wanted to join a convent ... or I would have opposed it.

Fr Gil was stunned, unable to utter a word, because the accent denoting Osuna sincerity.

- I believe that what is appropriate in this case - said D. Peregrin with his shrill voice, administrative,
- is knowledge of the fact immediately to the civil authority ...
To me it made me a father was governor of Tarragona ...

- Let you
in Tarragona, D. Peregrin! - Interrupted Mr. de las Casas .-- Here's
what should meet this girl is ... You, Madam, do you know to do to
himself.

You, D. Peregrin, who knows the people, go find a doctor ... And you, Don Gil the love ... to hell if you
like.

- To say that I abuse my daughter, because she wants to become a nun! - Kept exclaiming at under
Osuna, while helping the hostess .-- Canalla, rather than rogue!

- Mr Osuna, you excuse me ... I think so - said the priest.

- Well,
well.

Already fix this issue in Peñascosa - uttered D. Martin with his energy property .-- Now,
over here! ... Long!

Fr Gil went to the door, but when I was about to transpose, D. Martin shouted as if you were
in front of a battalion: Stop!

- Friend Osuna - he said, addressing the hunchback, - you would have
inferred a serious offense and you is not a decent if not now gives
a slap to the individual who has offended (pointing for P. Gil).

There was awkward silence.

Osuna's countenance expressed uneasiness and hesitation.

- Nothing, nothing - followed by the fierce invalid in his voice resonant
theatrical beard - you are not man of honor, you have no hint of shame
if corrective leaves the offense.

Osuna still hesitated a moment, cast a look of mercy to the invalid,
but seeing his face ghastly, it was decided at last.

Alzose on the toes and discharged a resounding slap on the cheek
of the priest.

- Jesus! - Said the landlady .-- This is an iniquity!

Fr Gil was densely pale, loomed two tears in his eyes, but made no
move one to throw on her attacker.

XIII

Thanks to the resolve of Obdulia, the matter was not brought to court. From the first time
admitted that he and solely responsible for the leak: the toilet no fault it had, only had assigned
to accompany her after incessant requests and using of the scheme from abuse at home. D. Peregrin
Casanova, no doubt wishing to demonstrate no grudge against any of Osuna on the scene lighting,
continued to believe that was instructed gubernatorial record. Long ago they were reconciled.
In Peñascosa individuals is publicly revile are called rogue, miserable,
ETC. etc., and eight days, they were again seen together over coffee.

But this is not unique of rocks. The same applies Sarrió and Nieva. Otherwise, how could life
distinguished in these villages?

Against the advice of D. Peregrin were all sensible people in the population. A by affects
the toilet, others timorous, some because they saw no reason to make a fuss, Osuna almost all
advised they were staying. However, the enemies that the toilet had, better say, the envious,
curled terribly. They refused to assent to version of the maiden. They felt it was a hoax forged
by her to save, and if did not believe, at least expressed it, lowering his voice and grinning.
It I covered it with sarcasm, like the priest that her daughter's confession, and were run
the villa thousand more or less ingenious pleasantry about his trip. It is easy to guess that who
else worked on this propaganda, but a sly way, was the P. Narciso. No chaplain was enough to
be humiliated Sarrió ripping off his rival by Coadjutor belonged
to him in justice.

I wanted to conclude it all costs, pulverized, not more hear his name on the lips of the pious women
of rocks.

It seemed the occasion of pearls for it. So he went spontaneously Osuna, asking if you did not think
going to court. When he learned that this could not be assumed because Obdulia all responsibility
and claimed to have cheated on his confessor, experienced grief. Such was his desire to exterminate
P. Gil, who was already a long time but that their relationships with it were strained, and
even open hostility can be said, he ventured that far. Three or four days after returning to Peñascosa
saw one morning in church. He sent a message by an altar boy who wanted to talk to her and
waited in the sacristy. It was beyond the young, though very bad wins. The curate was made of honey
treated her with extreme affection brilliantly handled the censer, knowing how sensitive he was
alive and his love own. When he thought having it soft, I did this with great circumlocution
that he, as pastor coadjutor, had a duty to ensure the honor of all his parishioners, that it
was walking in the mouths of people a few days ago, and this weighed on the soul by the particular
affection that the professed. We weighed all the more as he was sure there was no reason given for
it. He knew his generous character, his noble spirit, so I was convinced that On this occasion,
as in many others, sacrificed for others. However, this sacrifice was inadmissible, could be
regarded as a sin. The honor is not ours, is a repository God trusts us and that we have an obligation
to defend. Moreover, no disgrace was only for herself but also for his elderly father. The poor
are seen because of this nicknamed sacrifice and whispered in the village. Even more, though that
turned a good trait generosity, she and he, who were members of the Church, had a duty to report
the ecclesiastical authority of any priest who act unreasonably in exercising its ministry, so
it receives the fraternal condign punishment and prevent fees. This it was in good faith. She,
as good Christian, was not to allow mock God's justice. He understood perfectly that it would be
painful to testify against her confessor; but it was a bigger sacrifice than being carried out, and God
will surely appreciate. Furthermore, it should be noted that when reporting to his confessor
caused him no harm; the Otherwise, the punishment of the Church is seen as an asset, as a just
expiation, when accompanied by repentance, sin and redeems us from the pains of hell.

D. Poor Narcissus ignored, despite having tried for so long, who they existed. Before he had
uttered a word, Obdulia knew what was going to say and how more or less, you know like turning
life into your brain. That ability monkish made platitudes crashed into the vivid imagination,
the subtle wit and insight of the young saint. Answered in the same tone persuasive, smooth,
the cleric was adopted. Nothing could accuse P. Gil, who was a saint, an exceptional human being
illustration served as a beacon in the parish from which it said had arrived, and whose modesty,
selflessness and piety could serve as an example and encouragement to his teammates. But but
had reason to accuse him, he would refrain from doing very well, knowing that the scandal would use
primarily the enemies of religion. The lack of a woman when single leads only to her detriment.
That of a priest, into disrepute class and thus undermining the Catholic religion. Several
other considerations added, and including more than a sentence double acute intention known
to the new coadjutor burnt horn.

- Well, goodbye, D. Narciso, and excuse me if I could not fully understand
her charity.

I am a wretched woman and do not understand theology.

Fr Narciso was grinning like a rabbit. Displaying closed this route, came resolutely the other
no less tortuous. Same D. Joaquin chaplain and Mrs. Butler Barrado that P. Melchior, the young born
enemies toilet, vomiting venom against him, as logical. But there were other Peñascosa few
clerics who had always been fair. In trying to attract them paint them the set from another point
of view, ensuring that had reason to know secrets. The trip was a real abduction thwarted.
The girl was sacrificed. Long ago he, D. Narciso, was suspicious of what would happen. The toilet
had conceived an unholy passion. The escape was agreed had been three months, and so on., etc.
I filled the head wind. The position he occupied as pastor, in fact if not law, greatly facilitated
this attraction. It was agreed between the majority almost all of the chaplains of the villa,
the excuse was a little boy with no weight or formality, which had disgraced the priestly class
and God knows where it would stop if the bishop did not take action
on the matter.

Since then half forgave all of them show their contempt. Nothing pleases both human nature to
despise. Began to greet him coldly, then head back, then no answer. When I walked into the sacristy,
if there was other priests, noted that away from him and formed a separate group. If I went
to clothe to say Mass, was the day most of the clothes cupboard closed: I had to wait until
D. Narcissus came to ask the key. Be dispensed with him in the office when it was possible: not invited
them celebrating Gaudeamus. Finally, harassed him all the ways and
manners that were offered.

And there were no longer enough.

Fr Gil was more surprised than angry that contempt. Seeing that his colleagues dispensed him,
they dispensed with without much regret. Just spoke with Fr And Norberto D. Miguel. The old priest,
who had been deprived of the leadership of fact remained, however, with determination their right,
invented a thousand traces to prove the neighborhood. He and D. Daffodil enemy was a deep, fierce.
But he was afraid. The former leader of the hosts Carlist was capable, if irritated him a
little, beaten in the same church. Don Miguel succeeded by terror. Fr Narciso affected to
despise, but always behind them. Before he was treated with extreme consideration, and suffered
with patience dashes that Occasionally he let go. And when it happened to the young priest, preaching
to the faithful at the offertory of the Mass, saying: "We pastors have a duty, etc., 'D. Miguel,
from his corner where he heard mass, uttering loud enough to hear
him that around him, "Pastor I! I pastor!

"

Leaving a day together in the church, Fr Gil, who had just received a strong rebuff his colleagues,
he said, without regret, as if he were any news.

- Ignore them - the old leader replied, putting his hand rough and dry as a bundle of twigs on
the shoulder .--'re all fags.

They stick to skirts of the devout, like cats ... Look: I, when I go to say Mass, as now,
and get home, never leave him to release half a dozen ... But you, if you're offended, you can
get without inconvenience to the dozen.

A brutal laugh, like a roar, shaking his strong chest as he said this words. His eyes shone with
a frank, cordial joy. The toilet was red as a Cherry and remained silent. He did not have more confidence
with him on this point.

His inner life torments caused him to think too much time on these trivialities. Skepticism undermined
him softly. The world seemed more and more incomprehensible. The idea constant that everything
around him was a mere appearance, which remain true sense forever unknown to man, engendered
in his soul a deep melancholy, which well reflected in his pale face and the sad smile and indifferent
to her lips folded. The whole entire experience - Kant - is more than knowledge of the phenomenon,
not thing itself. It is hidden and hide forever to human reason. Plato also had said before.
The things of this world, such as our senses perceive have no any reality. As we close only
in sense perception we are as prisoners sitting in a dark cave, chained so tightly they can not
return head. They see nothing.

Only perceive on the wall ahead of you, in the light of fire burning behind the shadows of the things
that pass between them and the fire. Nor themselves are but as shadows on the wall. Our science,
then, is reduced and reduced always predict, based on experience, the order in which they occur
in the shadows.

Sad result after so much effort! The entire universe seemed to him like a shadow fugitive fading
with the subject who contemplates it.

Maya is - as the Vedas say, - is the veil of illusion that covering the eyes of mortals, makes
them a world view can not be said whether or not there exists a world that resembles a dream,
radiation the sun on the sand, where the traveler far do perceive a lake. Having lost faith not
only in reason but in their senses, the life of our clergy trailing silent, indifferent, in the midst
of infinite weariness.

Obdulia had not seen him in the fifteen days following their return. Blessed leaving very little
from home for obvious reasons, and the church tried to go to the hours when no was the toilet.
The latter is not just because of embarrassment, but by the same feeling was waving his loving heart.
He believed, and did not lack reason, which alleged gossip running through the village and the
war of all chaplains, mainly D. Narcissus any approach to his confessor could engage it. So this
sacrifice was necessary with satisfaction that suffers for being worshiped. But he became a
top torment their forces. His mad passion, instead of abating, more exalted every day. Not live
more than with the image of young toilet. Even in dreams you see. And he forged his deranged
fantasy endless illusions. Dabase to think that the P. Gil was for his love and to believe
exasperated all his words and actions. Once he had pressed his hand over force, one who had
smiled from a distance, other than she had blushed to find it, etc., etc. Everything became substance.
After the trip to Palencia she was subject to a thorough, feverish examination. His joy in the car
when eating lunch, and she cleaned fish spines, and the scene of the boat, where he was melancholy
about to mourn to listen, the agitation that seized him on the train when you invited barefooted
finally, the kiss of love on the lips that he was impressed until
he lost consciousness seemed to light the memories all signs of the
undoubted sentiments that the breast of his confessor.

The poor man was a saint, and love fighting with his duty. This struggle guess he thought it was doubly
interesting in their eyes, and more exalted, if possible was his passion divestment.

After he was born in his mind the idea of ??seeing him again. The idea soon became the purpose and
flooded with joy. The interview was to be secret, which nobody had news Peñascosa it. This satisfied
his desire not to compromise, while the condition of temperament, always inclined to the mystery.
Determined that it was at night: surprise toilet in your room, enjoy a moment of affectionate
expansion and leave immediately. He noted, for end the day. Throughout he was nervous, agitated
gently, as expected schoolgirl see her lover climb at night the bars of the balcony. When the
time came, he told his father she had a head to retire early. So I heard you leave home, lay
with trembling hand a shawl over her shoulders, and accompanied by
her maid, who was his concealing life, he went home from the toilet.

His legs were weak with pleasure, heart I was pounding.

The strange part is that you are not going through the imagination that that love was sacrilegious.
No was remorseful. Your brain balance upset all divine laws and social the melted back to his whim.
For her, the love of the young priest was a pure idealism consistent with the Christian spirit,
was in the stories of the saints several such cases. When dreaming away in his company to fund
a withdrawal sweet and pleasant, it was always under follow the course
of confessing to him and go to heaven together.

If the meat was speaking in of his being, or not listened, or pretended not to hear, deluding
itself.

Arriving at the mansion of the priest, told his maid who wait in the gate: no down soon. Called
trembling. Ms. Josefa left open. And from his famous voyage had not seen her, she threw herself into
his arms, embraced her and kissed her with effusion affected. He loves was very little content,
was received with icy coldness, until it was known that struggled
herself for not letting go a dash of shameless and give it to the
door in his face.

It only contained the idea that his master had been reconciled with
the blessed, which deplored in the depths of his soul, judging ugly
and dangerous.

Obdulia pretended not to notice the coldness of the good lady.

- Are you at home? - Asked the same smiling face.
- It's ... I'll let you know.

- No need. He has commanded me to
come at this time and I will be waiting.

He then took the stairs
and went to the room of Father Gil. Ms. Josefa looked up with dislike
and distrust. Ask if he was home and then say that the waiting was
a apparent contradiction