 And this was not lost sight of Don Sabas and that,
although not as much as him, were very knowledgeable in that breed of clouds, and This sniffed
the Priest eagerly landscape, and cut the record conversations with mandates stoke up dry. Even
the dogs shrank the tail and put to the side and walking people, especially when the north wind
roar was heard among the bare oak and the gorges of the mountains, and suddenly the light blurred,
as if to dusk then, and was shed as black and farther from the clouds that sinister rag I had seen
from my house, and then join with the other rag in the amount of land, and start, cast in one
piece and the two spin around like a spindle between the fingers a "jiladora 'and walk, walk,
walk toward them, the pilgrims of the mountain, as if pushed the roar could be heard behind
them, if not the same as it roared, full of anger and desire for destruction, death and desolation.

Don
Sabas looked then Neluco eyed alarm Neluco the Priest, and Pito Salces to Chisco the two,
and they all looked at each other, and they all stopped suddenly
as if obeying the impulse of the same spring.

Canelo and its congeners were also arrested and snuggles the group, looking at all sides and
out plaintive cries punctuated.

- That - Sabas said pointing to the waterspout - has to pass through
here before long ... Y what site takes us!

Were currently in the middle of a high, almost a plateau, helpless everywhere and left dominated
by a peak, between which and the mountains opened mouth a very deep ravine. Near the Canyon
and on the side of the mountain, had an oak forest quite thick and sturdy stems. Shelter was
scarce and dangerous that high grade defend against an enemy so formidable as the one I was
going up at an incredible rate, but as they had something better to its scope, he went without
delay. Chose each his own trunk, in the assurance that the same could serve as executioner
under that, and there were, trusting in God and responding to the prayers that booming voice
led him Don Sabas, asking for everyone's life, albeit at the cost of their own.

I feared and expected to arrive soon, black, thick, roaring, raging, as if all the sea with its
raging waves, and hurricanes and their roars, and irresistible push, had left his immeasurable
riverbed to stop by. Shook up the bravest (And they were much all of that intrepid legion), and
neither could realize full of the beginning or the end of this step as quickly as dreadful hurricane.
And had achieved only one of the strands of the tornado, ripped in his first game against
moles of the mountain!

There was in the oak trunks and broken branches removed and the soil appeared distorted, snow
removal where there had been great, and huge piles of it where there was little else. This was
the first thing that went through the eyes of the wretched, opened as soon as pursued with an
eye for each other. No one was in the spot it had occupied before the storm, and lay buried
pepazo half down on a pile of snow out of oak and a few steps from the ravine ... But there was
one