 Orleans is one of the first capital of the second order in France, for the importance of his
administration, his vast industry and agriculture and other social conditions, but is it, after
Paris, the most historic of French cities. Their land was, according to The general review of
the antique, the seating taken and destroyed Genabum by Caesar. Reedificóla Emperor Aurelian,
who gave his name, and was gathered by the kingdom Childeric of the Franks. Capital at the time
of the duchy of Burgundy, Hugh Capet has incorporated his crown, and later came to be the
heritage of the house of Valois and base of the industry actual Orleans whose secular struggles with
the branch staff have been so interesting in the history of France and still survive. It was
there where the famous heroine Joan of Arc defeated the English invaders earning the nickname of
Maid of Orleans, and that cost him a celebrity martyrdom at the stake in Rouen. Religious fanaticism
has paid almost always such as large acts of devotion and heroism sublime.

- The night had come when the train played in the small town of Etampes (of 8,000 souls) that belongs
to the department of Seine-and-Oise, strong 490.000 inhabitants, and whose capital is the famous
and historic Versailles. The train was running in the darkness of the countryside with the
speed of the hurricane, and soon realized, by the immense illumination that shone the valley
of the Seine, which was at the gates of Paris and had completed my journey.

       

* * * * *

       

CHAPTER VI.

* * * * *

CONCLUSION.

If the chapters in this series of souvenirs have been drawn with skill descriptive or purely
literary and artistic, yet would be very incomplete. Could scarcely offer a picturesque image
of the main features of Spanish appearance, and excite more or less the curiosity of readers enough
volunteers to encourage Colombians to his attention these pages. Also, always written in haste,
sometimes on tour and in any case within the final limit of a regular correspondence (in 1859-60)
these pages, although now collected in one volume, they must suffer the defects of its primitive
form.

In order to make them more useful, the reader will allow me to summarize my most notable travel impressions.

Nothing
can be as interesting for the people of the New World as the social study of Spain. The societies
of both regions are very consistent in its essential terms - where education above all - and should
compare them to see that wherever the same causes, ie, the same institutions, produce similar
results, given consideration to geographical differences. Rapid three-month trip I could do
in Spain is undoubtedly no, quite inadequate to make assessments pretty solid, more especially
as Spain is one of the people who have less ethnographic and social unit among the most notable
Europe. I feel strongly also did not have time to visit some provinces important (those of
Extremadura, Galicia, Asturias, Aragon and Navarra) that deserve special attention for more than one
reason