 D.
Bernardo generously gave them his hand, without losing a point as gravity it suited him. Instantly
struck up a very lively conversation about the issues then seize the attention of the court,
one of them was the recent arrival of the famous tenor Mario. Romillo as clarified in a very remarkable,
among other important data Mario stated that he had given orders to L'Hardy, the baker of
the Carrera de San Jerónimo, that did not sell more bottles of champagne, they probably need
it stocks they had.

- Ave Maria pure! But they are going to drink all? - Ojeda said candidly.

- Yes, sir - said seriously .-- Romillo average is drunk a dozen bottles
all day.

- Do not V. case, man! - Dona Martina said laughing .--
This Romillo always wants jokes.

The drink is between him and his buddies.

They were at dessert. Romillo and Valle were invited for coffee and sat at the table. After the
tenor Mario, focused the discussion on the executions of some sergeants had risen. Romillo
gave details on this point no less interesting: a of prisoners had not been killed outright,
got up for mercy, the confessor tried to come between him and the gun barrels, but the General
who commanded the troops came, and raising his sword in anger, said:

- Father priest from his position, or you rifle V. in the act!

-
What horror - Valle said, rolling her eyes and then gently posándolos
on Eulalia.

- In effect - said D. Bernardo, - all this is very sad,
but absolutely necessary.

Where we would end up if not punish the rebellion with a mighty hand?

- To be punished otherwise Sr., the death penalty should be banned from the codes.

- Do not go to the declamations, friend Valley: the death penalty
should survive while there are criminals who deserve it.

V. is very young, my dear, and has the noble ideas, but inconsiderate, typical of youth. When
V. have lived longer, you see that can not govern with the heart, but with intelligence.

- This is what you see Nah, you design ... but I can not help me ...
Horrors caused me all corporal punishment!

As he spoke these words her lips were made by a smile of ineffable sweetness, while their eyes were
looking at the eldest of Rivera.

D. Bernardo still deign to contradict other many times the young abolitionist, please appreciate
it knew it was worth, trying to give their arguments a sentimental bias not bothered less or more
the respectable nobleman: we left corner sometimes, other escaped through an obvious fallacy,
others confessed up, but persisting in their beliefs.

- Your Reason
are powerful, no turning back, I understand perfectly, but I can not
judge mankind so bad, I still believe that medium-soft are preferred.

The discussion in this way for Don Bernardo was tasty, and thus lost all the young Cuban. Doña
Martina looked at him with admiration and sympathy, sharing their views charities. Eulalia listened
without anger, that was the best that could be expected from this severe maiden.

Romillo finally drew everyone's attention, drawing from his coat pocket a nice artifact which
he said had just been sent from Paris. Stereoscope was a new system of another pocket pulled
out a collection of views, a bright, sometimes without light, representing landscapes and most remarkable
monuments of the universe. Around him were grouped immediately all except the head of the family, who
could not interest such trifles, and was placing Romillo and showing them the sights, before
explaining what they meant.

- Around Naples ... There are VV. Vesuvius on one side ... the gulf below ...

- Beautiful country! - Said D. Facundo, who after children, and perhaps
before, was that put more effort on the glass eyes .-- Man, what do
I have to win a trip to Italy.

- Well that.

- If you do not spend
much!

- But the man of God, for whom you want the big cat you have
at home?
