 In the most Masses are said to time,
so that those who have these or other impairments can not hear, nor which the people are employed
in keeping the chacarería, which, as was suspicious thefts night and early Mass is said, can
not come to hear, what they might do if the mass most are held at a regular time, although they
were all night in your occupation had time from dawn to come to church without any suspicion.

All
other days of the year, non-provision for the Indians, although they
are for Spanish, two Masses are said at sunrise or earlier, and in
some towns after dawn, so that many are left without hearing if neglected
in early, because of which originate some of the divisions among priests
and administrators.

On all days, although the mass is recited, attend music and sing in the chorus Kyrie, Glory,
Creed and Sanctus, and sing everything being sung Mass, and I play drums and make the same noise
in the holidays.

Every evening they pray the rosary in the church, one hour before the sun sets, in There is
also a difference of some people to others, according to the will of the priest.

Solemnized in the year some parties more special than the others, such as major of Our Lord Jesus
Christ and the Virgin, St. Michael, the Patriarch of the Holy religion
of priests, on the King Our Lord and his birthday.

These days the festival is announced with ringing of bells at noon yesterday, at which time most of
the people attends the church where the priest with the music sings the Magnificat, and later singing
vespers solemn, preceded by the ringing of bells, repeating the prayers and encouragement, as well
as at the dawn of another day, and to convene the mass, which acts in music with more solemnity
than other days, and then executed in the village some public entertainment, and gives some
special interests and other things as mentioned above.

The function that most stands alone amongst these is the patron saint of the village head, for it is
they invite some people's religious immediate, so that on the eve
and Mass dress of deacons and others to assist other ministries of
the altar, is charged in advance the sermon is preached, half and
half in Guaraní in Castilian, whose diligence is carried out the council
and manager, but is reported before the priest, who also attends invite
the religious who are to attend the function and in the time they
arrive the people on the eve of the feast day of receiving them at
the door of the church priests with the ringing of bells and music,
and the same practice with the governor and lieutenant of the department
whether that condition, which can only ceremony abuse excuse being
introduced from time of the Jesuits, that they practiced with their
priests, and that failure to do so now would miss Indians, the rest
of these functions is already said elsewhere.

The next day is celebrated in the towns of this department, available to me, an anniversary for the souls
of the children of the village, with vigil Mass and solemn responsibility, and apply all the religious
who attend Mass that day, paying his fee of the common people.

Easter functions are quite solemnity and devotion, but with little processions decency, so
imperfect and unadorned images of everything serves them. In some towns, processions start from the Monday
of Holy Week, but most common is from Wednesday, this day a later sing in the church of darkness
with all music, with such solemnity as they could in a collegiate, where it is admirable to hear the
lamentations and others singing lessons to kids of eight or ten years
old, Latino-owned but not because they do not understand what they
read, and can not pronounce well Latin or Castilian, because they
lack in the language of the letters L, F and R, rough, but well drawn
and true to the music.

Duran darkness until the prayers, at which time, while the Miserere mei Deus, closed the doors and turned
off the lights, hit rigorously the Indians soon after talk of passion is in the Guarani language,
which was ended, the available to the procession in this way.

Images ready to be out in the procession, and early music through church, go through the door,
falling into the courtyard of the school, several boys dressed with Sotanillo and surplices
of servers, with the instruments and symbols of the Passion of Christ. Enter one of these
with the lantern, and two sides with two lanterns made of cloth bowels of the bulls, placed at
the tip of long stalks, kneels before the image is in the midst of the church, and meanwhile
the music sings a motet in Guarani expressing that step, which is completed and continue to
raise these kids get in order in the procession, and enter another with other insignia, and well
keep following until completion all of which are perhaps twenty or more, and logos that are
so crude and materials the rope is a loop bonding, a leather whip of what they used to punish the steps
that Good Friday is for the descent, and so do the rest.

After that just happened, stands the priest and others who have been sitting in the meantime,
and follow the procession, which comes out and walk around the plaza, which is illuminated,
and willing altars in the four corners to make stops. Across the square are many Indian penitents,
and among some Indian women who each other was hit savagely, making the puncture Some back and
thighs, where the blood runs in abundance, others big burden crosses on their shoulders, others
cross-reeled or put others in chains, etc. In some people running on the plaza steps meeting Veronica,
the Virgin and St. Juan, as well as the deposition of Good Friday, but these steps have apparently
been introduced after the expulsion, because neither are common to all peoples, and is in All images
on purpose for them, nor the priests served the Indians to run, particularly the descent, but
the Spanish who come together in those days there. What time the Jesuits were practiced some
more serious and dissonant penances The secular priests and superiors
have forbidden the present time, and yet this This year I warned that
one of the people in my office had been renewed several of them Indians,
whose results were abused some of the face and body, both that many
days were unable, being abused by foreign hands, so I rebuked those
who arranged and prevenídoles not do it again.

Holy Thursday Mass is celebrated with great solemnity, in which the regular communicant council, and then
carries the Blessed Sacrament in procession around the church and is placed on the monument
which, though badly painted racks of linen, is catching on some villages, and all are decorated
with silver ornaments there, with many lights, but most are tallow candles.

Then you push the Blessed Sacrament in the monument, rods and poles cuddle the sheriff Mayors
and other justice, and instead take small crosses on the hands, bringing Holy Saturday until
after the trades, returning to take their badges of justice.

The same day afternoon repeats the role of history, varying the passage of the procession, and on
Good Friday and Holy Saturday there is nothing unusual, as the offices of the morning are
as practiced everywhere, and darkness and processions as those of former days, with the exception
of peoples is lowered. In all these processions attend Indians with small crosses on the hands,
and the women with small busts crosses any saint or vocation, some carrying in his arms two
or three of them, but all assist with modesty and reverence.

On Saturday there is the particular than the church door make a big bonfire with the new light,
which everyone takes home a to fire blight, as well as having water that was blessed that day.

Quasimodo
Sunday give communion and church meeting the disabled, in which together at home or chapel
which is opposite the church, and there administer, and although is not detrimental to remove these
disabilities from their homes, I think it would be more building
carrying the Blessed Sacrament to them.

The holiday I like and is built much of Corpus Christi; for this function
have and decorate the whole square in outline, forming arches and
porticoes streets or tabernacles green branches, with links and stover
lattices very showy, and in the four corners have altars for the procession
stops.

In the booths and arches all around of the square hang a few animals and birds can get killed and
live in the countryside, and pets that are tied there, also hang more decent clothes they have,
fabrics, knit fabrics, tools of their trade and agriculture, ties, ball and bells of their animals,
bows and arrows to hunt, the food that day, and even many, being a thing that can save, and
so fill the altars of cakes made from root cassava, molded in molds of various shapes, bladders of fat,
pieces of grilled meat few are edible, but what is more abundance is pulses of all species curiously
wrought in baskets, which saved for planting, believing that their faith with presence blesses
our Lord Jesus Christ. In the neighboring villages to put a lot of rivers fish, some live
in small canoes with water, and finally, the earth produces and reaches
industry, all serve to adorn the arches and altars of the square,
so that hardly discover the green of the branches that are formed,
and say that God is Lord and Creator of all things, you must serve
them all.

The apparatus of the procession is relevant to what I have said to the other functions: good custody
of hand, numerous music, great voice of bells and drums, many dances
pretty boys and devotion.

Thrown on the floor, instead of flowers, roasted corn kernels and trapping, each grain more bulky
than a hazelnut, and appear white flowers that are several baskets, spraying van in front
of the priest who has custody, and behind boys gather and eat.

In the other holidays of the year there is nothing worthy of repair, in all follow the ceremonial
of the church in the ordinary manner and on terms that it is noticed.

In other obligations attached to the ministry of priests is what happens everywhere some are better
than others, but I must point out some things that are practiced and I are dissonant, and it will
be very rare, if not in every respect at least some has to be understood, and I think would
be of great importance to create other adjusted method.

Although pastors because of these priests are obliged to apply the Mass on holidays for the people
sing every Monday a for the souls of the dead, and implement other in each burial of adults who
may die, as everything is expressed in the aforementioned report given by the illustrious Bishop
of Buenos Aires, I have news that some priest meets with all these charges, and most know is that
some meet some others with others, as the degree of dissonance that
makes you miss them or not.

And while I talk meaning to some priests this lack I've noticed, I have responded that when Mr.
Don Manuel Antonio de La Torre said the charges of the priests in the terms contained in the
ordinances, taking charge of them said 300 pesos each synod to cure, and 250 the companion congrua
accurate, considering the loads they had, and that, having reduced the synod, are not obliged to
them, usually their higher pensions prelates with masses that have to apply for the convent,
and have no room for all the people.

A religious of San Francisco are forced provincial regularly in the triennium its intention to
apply for masses 100 priests and 150 peers, which are outside bound
to apply the religious dead.

Whatever the truth is that these lack natural part of the spiritual benefits granted the Apostolic
See obligations by the pastors, and the mercy of our Sovereign wants meet them, saying ministers
and paying for it in those who download their consciousness, and these people come on time with
the food in his cures, not lacking anything.

In administering the sacraments are these priests the same method, with short difference, observing
that the Jesuits. The children, born creatures, if they safe, and brought them to his room
and they privately administered baptism, and Sunday solemnly baptized all the creatures that
were born in a week, and put oils to which they had thrown water. The same is practiced in some
villages, in most no fixed day to administer this sacrament.

Mode was observed and seen in all villages in the Sacrament of penitence deserves a bit stop
me, because, this being the door we have to return to grace lost and the table after the sinking
of guilt leads to port security, I think is where the priests were to exercise greater care
and to make him confess it, as they reached the proper disposition to receive Holy Communion, and
formed a perfect idea of ??so holy and necessary sacraments. But much neglect and abuse that
there is in practice seen as manifest to you.

The Indians do not confess, usually, but once a year for compliance church, the manner in which
this takes place is as follows. Even before entering Lent have priests who every day come the
Indians or Indian two or three chiefdoms-examined of Christian doctrine to the church door, which
test is running one or more Indian the confidence of the priest, who assists him sometimes,
perhaps forever, in greater or less effective.