 The things he had seen in the world! ... Y Now
his words about the bride unmoved ancient credulity, making smiling slightly, while looking with superstitious
fear the great lady of the past that only was a head. When the man said that! It was so special
all yours! ...

When climbing the tower Febrer sat near the door, looking across the landscape of earth in
to be ruled from this hole. At the foot of the hill extendíanse some fields recently plowed. They
were pieces of mountain property Febrer that Pep was becoming arable land. Beyond almond plantations
began, with its foliage a fresh green, and the aged and gnarled olive trees that spread their dark
wood with clusters silvery gray leaves. The house, Can Mallo, was a home near Arab, a group
square construction as given, flat roofs and dazzling white. As increased and expansion needs of the
family, raising new buildings were white. Each was given a room, and together they formed a home
that looked more like a horde, not guessing what served outside in the life of the inhabitants
and what for beasts of labor.

Can extendíanse beyond the trees, divided by dry stone walls, and terraces high embankment. The
winds of the island did not allow the rise of the trees, and trees spread their branches around
them with an exuberant verbosity, winning the rebound losing height. All the branches retained
supported by many forks. Some figs came to have hundreds of bras, and spread like a huge green
tent intended to shelter a dream of giants. Arbors were natural, in which he could hide almost
a village. The bottom of the horizon was closed by mountains covered with pine trees with large
bald red earth. Among the dark canopy of smoke rose. The fires were of loggers who manufactured charcoal.

Febrer
was three months on the island. His arrival was amazed to Pep Arabi, still occupied to tell relatives
and friends for their great adventure, his unprecedented audacity,
the recent trip to Mallorca with atlots, stay in Palma a few hours,
and his visit to the palace of Febrer, guarding enchanted place in
the world as may exist in an elegant and luxurious.

The rude statements unless the peasant Jaime amazed.

- Pep, I'm ruined, you are rich if you compare me.

I come to live in the tower ... no know how long. Maybe forever.

He went into the details of installation, while air Pep smiled incredulously. Ruined! ... All the
great lords said the same, and what they could spare them in their misfortune could many poor
people become rich. They were like ships that ran aground in Formentera before the government
put headlights. The formenterinos, and left people without God's law - being an island smaller
-, lit fires to deceive the sailors, and when the ship was lost for them, not lost to the Islanders,
as his remains were many rich.

Poor a Febrer! ... Refused to accept the money offered Don Jaime. He was to cultivate lands that
were the Lord, and would settle accounts. And when his commitment to occupy the tower, Pep worked
to make it habitable, also ordered their children to bring food to
Mr the days he did not want to sit down at your table.

These three months have been for James of rustic isolation, or write a letter, or open a newspaper,
book or know more than half a dozen volumes he had brought from Palma. The city of Ibiza, a quiet
and sleepy inland village on the Peninsula, it seemed a remote capital. Mallorca should not already exist,
nor the great cities he had visited. In the first month of this new life, an extraordinary event
disturbed his peaceful tranquility. Got a letter, a statement on letterhead from a cafe in
the terminal and a few lines of lyrics thick and defective. Toni Clapp who was writing. She wanted
him congratulations on your new life. In Palma all still the same. Pablo Valls wrote because I was
not angry with him. Leaving without notice! ... But it was a good
friend and was engaged in unraveling their affairs.

Was for this diabolical skill. Finally, chueta! ... And give him more news.

After two months had passed without another letter came luckily. What mattered him the news of
a world that was not going back?

... Certainly did not know what was reserved the future: there had arrived and there was no
other pleasures as hunting and fishing animal enjoying a pleasure
not to have more ideas and desires that of primitive man.

Stood apart from the Ibiza life, without mixing in their habits. He was a man among the farmers,
an outsider. Those treated him respectfully, but with a cold respect.

The traditional life of these people, rude and a little ferocious, he was attracted to the strength
of all that is special and strong contours. The island, left to its own forces, she had to be faced
in centuries the Norman pirates at Mariners Arabs, to the galleys of Castile, Aragon state enemy,
the ships of the republics Italian ships to the Turks, Tunisians and Algerians, and English
pirates in times Most recent. Formentera, uninhabited for centuries, having been the granary
of the Roman served as a refuge treacherous hostile fleets. The village churches were even true
strengths with strong towers, where the farmers to find refuge from the fires that landed enemies.
The eventful life of constant danger and endless struggle had created a population accustomed
to bloodshed, to defend their rights weapons in hand. The farmers and fishermen of this, shut
up in their island, they had still the same mentality and customs
of their grandparents.

The people did not exist. Villages were scattered over many miles, without any kernel that the church
and the houses of healing and mayor.

The only town was the capital, called in ancient documents "Real
Fuerza Ibiza ', with its quarter adjacent to the Navy.

When a atlot reached puberty, his father called him into the kitchen of the farmhouse in the presence
the whole family.

- You are a man - he declared solemnly.

And he did deliver a sturdy knife blade. The knight atlot lost its shrinkage subsidiary. Hereinafter
defend himself, without seeking the protection of his family. Then to raise some money, completing
his harness paladinescos buying a pistol with ornaments of silver
to the smiths of the country, who had his forge in the forest.

Strengthened by the contact of these two testimonies of male citizens, who did not abandon
long as he lived, were supplemented by other atlots equally equipped, and began to he young and loving
life: di serenades accompanied neighing, dances, excursions to the parishes that celebrated the
feast of its patron saint, where he enjoyed accurate throwing the rooster with stones, and
especially festeigs, traditional processions, the search of a bride, custom, the most respectable
of all, which gave rise to quarrels and deaths.

On the island there were thieves. Isolated houses in the countryside retained many times key in
the door while the owners were absent.

The men were not killed for reasons interest. The enjoyment of the soil was very divided, and the mild
climate and the frugality of the people meant that they were generous and little attachment to
material goods. Love, only love drove men to kill. The rustic gentlemen were passionate in their
predilections and fatal jealousy, as heroes of romance. For an eye atlota black and brown hands
were sought and provoked in the dark of night with neighing Challenge, is by far aucaban before
coming to blows.

The modern gun emits only a projectile with each shot seemed insufficient, and added a handful cartridge
of gunpowder and a bullet, attacking everything hard. If the gun did not burst in their hands,
the assailant was sure his opponent to dust.

The courtship lasted for months and years. The peasant who had a dating age atlota saw presented
the boys of the district and other districts of the island, as all
had Ibiza equal right to apply.

The father appreciated the number of suitors. Ten fifteen, twenty, sometimes thirty. Then calculate
the time that was available in evening before we surrender the dream, and taking into account
the number of applicants, divided as many minutes each.

As the night went by going down different paths of the procession, some in groups, singing accompanied
by whinnying and clucks, some lonely, rattling in his mouth bimbau zoom, an instrument consisting
of two plates of iron that growled like a Bumblebee and made them forget the fatigue of travel.
They came from far away. The walking was three hours on the way and many others around, going from
one extreme to another on the island, Thursdays and Saturdays, days of courtship, three minutes
to speak with a atlota.

They sat in the summer in the porchu, a sort of porch of the farmhouse, and went into the kitchen
if it was winter. Motionless on a stone bench they expected the girl.

He had stripped the straw hat with long ribbons, which gave him hours of sun a pastor air operetta;
wore the costume party, green or blue skirt tiny folds, which kept the rest a week squeezed between strings
and hanging from the ceiling to retain intact its fold. Under other skirts and it had other, eight,
ten or a dozen petticoats, all women's clothing house, a solid funnel cloths and mops that erased
the vestiges of sex and made impossible to imagine the existence of a carnal reality under the
heap of fabrics. Rows bright filigree buttons on the sleeves of my jacket plate. On his chest,
rolled by a brace nun who was like iron, shining triple gold chain with huge links. Below
scarf covering her head hung a thick braid finishing tape. On the bench, serving as a tapestry
strongly that seemed bulky like balloons for the great bulk of the skirts, was the abrigais,
the women's winter clothing.

Deliberating the applicants for the good order of the procession, and one after another were
to sit atlota next to the minutes talking to her marked. If any, emboldened by the conversation,
forgot peers, passing the time, they noticed it with coughs, looks
angry and threatening words.

If they insisted, the strongest of the band to grab an arm, him away for another take his place.
Sometimes, when the suitors were many and time was pressing, the atlota talking to two at
a time, making efforts skill not to give preference to one over the other ... So the courtship
continued until she expressed its preference for a atlot, regardless of the wishes of their parents.
In This short springtime of her life, she was queen. Then, on marriage, cultivated land her husband
and was little more than a beast.

The despised atlots withdrew when they felt no great interest in the girl, moving his love a few
leagues beyond, but if they were truly in love, still lurking the house, and had preferred to fight
with their old rivals, miraculously reaching the marriage by knives and guns.

The gun was like a second language of Ibiza. On sunday let go dancing shots love to show excitement.
Leaving the farm of the bride, to give it and your family a token of appreciation, fired a shot to
transpose the door and shouted then: "Bona nit!" If, however, retired hurt and the family wanted
to infer a serious injury, reversed the terms, first giving goodnight
and trigger gun later, but in this case was to go immediately to full
speed, because the house Then answered the declaration of war by other
shots or sticks and stones.

James lived on the edge of the harsh life and traditional customs watching from afar of Douar
still remained in the apartment of the island. Spain, whose flag flew all Sunday on the village
declined in each parish, only memory of this piece was of soil lost at sea. Many distant lands
were in communication Oceania more common with the great human nucleus
to the island, destroyed at other times by war and rapine, and now
miserable being away from the path of large ships, enclosed in a belt
of islets, rocks and low, between inlets and channels whose crystal
clear waters the sea bed.

Febrer felt in this new existence, the pleasure of occupying comfortable place to attend an
interesting spectacle. Those farmers and fishermen, bellicose grandchildren privateers were
to him co-existence welcome. Intended to contemplate from afar, as a control peculiar, but
slowly their customs had seized him, dragged to same habits of life.

He had no enemies, and yet, on trips around the island when not carrying the gun on his shoulder,
hid a gun in his belt ... case.

In the early days of his stay in the tower, as the needs of the facility will forced to go to
town, he kept his suit, but gradually dispensed with the tie, the collar, boots. Did you prefer
hunting shirt and corduroy pants the peasants.

Fishing fond you go barefoot in espadrilles beaches and cliffs. A hat like the one used all the
parish atlots San Jose covered his head.

Pep's daughter, knowing the customs of the island, admiring some appreciation hat sir. The men
in the various paddocks that divided the former Ibiza could be distinguished from each other
by way of taking the hat and the shape of their wings, unlike imperceptible
for which land was not.

The Don Jaime was identical to that of all atlots of San José and differed from those used by
residents of other towns, all with names of saints. The parish honored that she was the daughter.

Naive
and Margalida funny!

Febrer enjoyed talking with her, enjoying the wonder stories from other lands and their jokes,
those with serious gesture, awakened in his soul simple ...

Would soon bring the food.

Half an hour ago that a thin column of smoke hung over Can Mallorquí
fireplace.

He pictured the daughter of Pep stewing, pacing along home, followed
by the look of the mother, unhappy and silent payesa clumsiness, not
dared to lay hands on things of the Lord.

From time to time would see it appear under the sunshade of porchu leading into your home arm
carrying the picnic basket and its miraculous white face, the sun only slight patina gilded
with antique ivory, a straw hat with long ribbons.

Someone moved under the shadow created by undertaking the march to
the tower.

It was Margalida! ... No, it was not her. She wore pants. It was his brother Pepet ... Pepet,
who lived in Ibiza a month before preparing for seminary, and that
people had given it the nickname of the Chaplain.

II

- Bon tengui days! ...

Pepet spread a napkin on one side of the table and put on her two covered dishes and a bottle
of wine grape that had the color and transparency of the ruby. Then he sat on the ground, covering
her knees with her arms, and lay still. The light ivory his teeth shone on the brown face smiling.
His mischievous eyes fijábanse in man with an expression of happy and loyal dog.

- But you were not in Ibiza to be a priest? - Asked Jaime while attacking the food.

The boy shook his head. Yes, sir, it was. His father had entrusted
to a teacher Seminar.

Where Did Don Jaime was the seminar? ...

Small peasant spoke of him as a remote place of torture. No trees, no freedom air or just:
life was not possible at the closure.

Febrer, hearing, recalled his visit to the upper town, the royal fortress of Ibiza, population dead,
separated from the Marina district by a great wall the time of Philip
II, the interstices of sandstone covered with undulating greens and
caper. Statues Headless Romans in three niches decorated the door
connecting the city to the suburbs. Further, the winding streets began
to climb steeply to the summit, occupied by the cathedral and the
castle blue stone floors, the center ran by sloping the filth; crisp
white facades, under the whitewash will clear coats of arms and the
work of old windows, a graveyard silence of the sea, interrupted only
by the distant sound of the surf and the hum of flies piling up in
the gutter. From time to time, steps on the pavement of these streets,
Moorish and windows are opened with the eager curiosity of a special
event, some soldiers coming up slowly the castle on the steep slopes,
the canons coming down from the choir, his chest the bright robes
of grease and a shovel hat and the cloak of a fly's wing color, prebendary
of a cathedral miserable forgotten, poor and without a bishop.

In
one of these streets had been Febrer Seminary, long house, with white
walls, bars covered the windows as well as a prison. The Chaplain,
to remember, put serious erased from his face white chocolate ivory
smile. What month was been there! The master entertained the boredom
of the holidays with this small farmer wanting to start in the beauty
of the Latin letters with the help of his eloquence and a belt. I
wanted to make him a prodigy, to surprise the other teachers when
they would open classes, and hits retailers