 Repentance had been in Recently a vague
wish, thanks to the fatigue of his love and fear further divestment inspired him to hell. Now
it became true longing. Truth that offered greater attractive. Courageously reject sin, purified,
free from the eternal fire ... and also Fernanda possess.

Had long criminal relations had only a blip, Josefina. If it was not for her, was gone for Lancia.
This creature, white and silent as a snowflake, which had the fragrance of lilies, the innocence
of doves, the sweetness melancholy of a moonlit night, spreading over his soul, tormented by
remorse, a balm to the deliciously refreshing. Many times, holding in his arms, asked surprised
how someone so innocent, so pure, so divine, could be the child of sin! But even during that
same girl was new and cruel torments. Not her alone but from time to time, be forced to hide
their feelings, coldly kiss as other, more coolly than the rest, unable to call her daughter's
heart, do not feel warbling the tender name of father, he was sad and at times he despaired.
Desquit치base when once in a while, very rarely, he consented to take her to the farm. They spent
hours in ecstasy, holding on his knees, stroking furiously.

The girl had become accustomed to these violent expressions of love
and thanks.

Sometimes blonde felt his head wet by the tears of his friend. Raised his eyes in surprise but
seeing him smile, smiled too, and stretched her coral lips to kiss.

- Why are you crying, Luis? Do you pupa?

Joseph did not understand why it had more serious in the world to mourn. Luis loved tenderly, and that
shocked and saddened that the coldness that she usually wore. Slowly had been guessing, with
precocious instinct, that the count wanted more than the others and to conceal. She also adopted,
following the example, an indifferent attitude toward him when in
public.

But when alone, we gave with the same enthusiasm to expansions affection, and this without knowing
why, without realizing what he did.

From the day her godmother ordered off her hair, she noticed that there was Josefina disgraced.
I no longer kiss with transportation, and did not meet their minimum food cravings, was no
longer the constant concern of the house. Amalia began to vex, to use her cold and indifferent
tone, and the maids followed the example of his wife. The poor girl without understanding what
that change meant, he felt his little heart tightened; explored with
its beautiful deep eyes the faces and tried to decipher the enigma
that kept.

It became more serious, more suspicious, more timid. And he refused to see that toys or goodies
before lent her hands full, he refrained from asking.

Amalia, instead of enjoying as before with their children because
it seemed outrun.

He ordered not take her morning at the bed, as usual. When encountered by chance in hallways, passed
by avoiding her. To all asking the closer to peevish tone:

- You have not washed it yet? But go to fix you. Or: "I was told you could not the catechism.
You'll make very lazy. Care that you're great, because otherwise I locked in the cave of the
mice. "

Before her was busy taking her lessons, put the needle in the hand and guide their tiny fingers.
Now this task usually left to the maids.

He lived in a state grim concern that did not happen desadvertida the servants. Josephine also
guessed; I saw that her godmother was changed, not only with respect to it, but his whole way
of being. And there, vaguely in the dark limbo of his thinking that spawned the idea was sad,
suffering and that this was the cause of your bad mood.

One day the lady was alone in his cabinet. It had dropped into a chair. Still, head thrown back
and hands earrings, seemed asleep.

However, Josephine that was around the cabinet, dared to look through
the crack in the door and noted that it had eyes open, wide open,
and his brow was furrowed anxiously.

Without knowing what that was done, with that blind children have
confidence in themselves, opened the door and into the room.

He approached the lady quietly, and fell suddenly on his lap, he said, fixing her a look of
timid affection

- Kiss me, godmother.

The lady shook.

- How you doing here?

Who gave you permission to enter?

Have not you been told not to go up without call you? - asked further
wrinkling his brow.

- I wanted to kiss - Josefina said dully.

-
Let me kisses.

Go, go watch it again without my permission.

But the girl, overcome by emotion, not knowing what to attribute this
indifference and willing overcome at all costs, next to mourn, fell
further on his lap and tried to climb to reach his face.

- Kiss me,
godmother.

- Remove!

Let me! - Preventing it lifted the lady replied.

The girl persisted.

- Do not you want me?

Give me a kiss.

- To take off, kiddo! - Shouted angry .-- Get out now!

At the same time gave a hard push.

Josefina, after staggering, fell to the ground, giving head at the
foot of a chair.

Alzose touching his sore spot, but did not cry. A sense of dignity that many Sometimes you stay strong
in children's hearts, lent strength to resist tears gushing into
her eyes.

Turned to her godmother a look of indescribable sadness and left running from the room. When
he reached the stairs he fell on a step and broke sobbing.

The thorns of life began to dig cruelly delicate meats that girl, who until then had found only
flowers in their path. The detachment grew Amalia day by day. At the same time so did the reserve
and shyness of their daughter. But as the end I was a kid, this sadness disip치base sometimes
the impulse of a whim. So it was when it really showed the coldness and dislike of the lady.

-
Madam, Josefina not wear the green dress.

- What then?

- He says he is dirty.

Amalia got up, went to the room of the girl and taking her by the arm and shaking her roughly,
said

- What pride is that? Do not you know, wrist, which in this house you are nobody? What are you
here mercy? Be careful not to get angry, because when you least expect you planted in the
street where I have collected.

Maids heard these words and had very present. Josefina hitherto had been treated as a daughter of
Mr.: henceforth it was regarded as a false child: later, as upstart. The servants pleasure
of revenge with meticulous care before she had to lavish, those receiving harsh rebukes by their
cause. Concha In particular, the microscopic maiden, he felt a joy unspeakable, characteristic
of a vindictive nature, whenever Mrs. somehow showed his disdain for the child collection.

It occupied a room overlooking the garden, bright and spacious. Concha, although first maid
and seamstress in the house, were staying in a dark little room with
patio window, which shared with Mary.

Josefina's cabinet had been provided for her an object of envy. More than once expressed in
words rather heavy for it.

Taking advantage of the disposition of his mistress, was allowed
to sleep well in this cabinet, under the pretext of Paula, who occupied
an adjoining room, was a heavy sleeper.

Comfortably seated himself, he using the toilet and the girl's belongings. A few days later sent
her to sleep with Mary in his old room without saying a word to her mistress. When she found out,
had passed some time: free scolded for not giving rough part, but
did not change the facts accomplished.

Later it occurred to him otherwise degrade. Josefina ate at the table with the lords. The high
and mighty Grandee had not consented to the top: touted by wife,
gave the order, not without reluctance.

Shell penetrated the dislike of his wife, began to plot to deprive this honor to the collection.
Exaggerating what was to be done, how much staining and what disturbed the table service, which
ultimately did not sit and yes it into a little girl who was put on the fourth of the plate,
next to the kitchen. A few days later the same Amalia, in a fit of bad temper, said that this
double service could not be tolerated and will take her to the kitchen
to eat with the servants.

Concha sat on a stool, put a saucer of mud and wooden spoon in hand
and said

- Come.

The girl looked up stunned, but to see the evil grin that shone in his eyes the maid, underthe again
and began to eat without protest.

Concha was not satisfied; wished they rebel mourn view.

- What is that? Do not like the spoon? ... Well, daughter, eat with it, and also how I I'm as
good as you ... What did you think, goofy! Did you think that because you put the hat cambric
shirt and you were a lady ... The ladies do not come tucked in a basket between dirty ...

And there continued releasing jets sarcasm and insults, until at last the poor Josephine began
to mourn. The other maids, less malevolent, were, however, flattered by that humiliation.
At last they did their part, tried to comfort her, while Concha ruthless, tougher and cooler
than marble, chasing a long time continued to boo bloody.

A few days later, Josephine across the room from the plate to go to
the dining room, heard Concha said turning to Mary:

- Say, girl,
have you ironing and clothing hospiciana?

He paused, not knowing whom he meant, and carried his eyes suspicious of one another domestic until
a laugh, both released at the same time, made him understand that this was it.

- Why do you call me hospiciana? - Said the innocent struggling to not mourn .-- I will say
my godmother.

- Lift, runs to tell! - Concha said pushing on the door.

Since then no other name given among the servants.

Amalia forbidden to take her to the living room at night.

The count, who no longer see his daughter more this time, demanded
an explanation.

The lady said, having to get up early to study their lessons, he needed more sleep. He did
not believe that for. Included that it was a dastardly revenge, but was careful to keep silent,
fearing further damage.

Amalia then came up most directly hurt.

The girl, who had been deprived not only for his touch, but of all its preeminence in the house,
on his way to being a maid more. In a flash was completely transformed. The lady gave orders
to guard him all the hats and dresses and secure his the poorest and oldest in the room; that
might make him a gown as the other servants, and are employed in the necessities of I could
run the kitchen.

The Loves of Count and Fernanda were becoming more noticeable. Although they kept house Qui침ones
be discussed with privacy, Valencia will not be jealous that hid between them existed. His
eyes pierced like two rays of light on her lover's brain and read
clearly in him.

Luis was in love with his former girlfriend. Adulterous relationships he endured in the soul
like a slab of stone. She, the beloved, beloved of other days, it seemed now old and withered
face that splendid rose just open fully. If not had left and was due to weakness of character,
by the powerful influence that in seven year relationship had acquired over him. But it felt like
something else. I read it perfectly fled in their eyes, in the grim concern that weighed on
him, sometimes broken by sudden and extravagant joy in fear and servility,
increasing, with which approached her.

One night the Count asked for a glass of water. Amalia's eyes flashed
suddenly.

There awaited moment arrived. Rang the bell and said the maiden singular inflection who attended:

-
Paula, bring a glass of water.

A few moments later she appeared Josefina, poorly dressed, with a
fabric mandilito coarse, rough shod your feet with shoes, supporting
work between his small hands a tray with a glass of water and sugar
cube.

The circles were stunned. Luis pale.

He moved the girl to the middle of the room, looking timidly at her godmother. This made him a
sign that come near the count.

The gentleman hesitated as if distracted, but seeing the creature planted before him, hastened
to take the cup and took it with a trembling hand to his lips.

Eyes Amalia were shown as cold, indifferent, but his lips had undetectable tremors revealing the cruel
joy I felt. Reigned in the party, while Following this stage, a significant silence.

After Joseph had gone, Mrs. Quinones said his conversations with ease that move. It was a necessary
punishment to the pride that the girl began to show with the servants.
Not last long.

However, needed to beat the clock will Quinones, who opposed it was brought up with much care.

-
The truth is - concluded with an accent so natural that any actress would find it more appropriate
to the occasion, - the truth is that sometimes I can not help him right in me. What good would it
do to this poor girl placing her in a situation where there has to be sustainable? Tomorrow
we die, the poor need to scratch a living working, unless they find
a husband ... What husband is going to give a girl needs and no money?

The circles did not fall into the trap. In reality neither she intended. Everything came to be reduced
to pure convention, since no one is hiding what was underneath. Soon after, unable to master the discomfort
he felt, the count dismissed.

- The business of Louis does not appear at all well - said late Manuel Antonio in a group who
retires by Altavilla Street, where they were Maria Josefa, the Pensioner
and his daughter Jovita .-- The Fernanda married, if he gets to perform,
it must cost much trouble.

- Do you think Maria Josefa ?...-- asked
to pull his tongue.

- Mother!

... Are you dumb, woman? Do not know Amalia like me?

- What must be based on the marriage of Amalia Luis? - Asked Jovita,
who as maiden, but had turned thirty-two patent suit him do his candor.

-
Ay! It is true that we had here this fanciullina - exclaimed, making
funny gestures fright, the fag .-- I had no charge!

... Nothing, Monin, nothing moves forward, these are things of the great ...

Pensioner's daughter became angry when he felt the pinprick and replied
with a phrase insolent.

Pagola Manuel Antonio with another, and engaged in lively overflowing with words bitter dispute
and intended that lasted until retired house, but not before he had made some vain efforts to
make peace between them. Took the best part, as always, the queer, they had to launch their sentences
the force of men and the subtle intention of females.

The next day the count did an interview with Amalia and gave his complaints
about the scene the previous night.

The lady said kindly, condescending, he justified his conduct by
the good of the child.

Luis noted, however, speaking in a particular way, thought he heard
in the honey of his words a hint of bitterness and irony that startled
him.

Came worried restless: in a few days of each other could not remove
the discomfort of that interview.

But love set fire rapidly in all the chambers of his soul and consumed
at the end that last bit of concern.

He was deeply in love. And as always happens, growing alongside her love also increased his shyness.
At first, in their long conversations Fernanda, appeared serene, polite, forgiving no way of
proving to his ex-girlfriend admiration and performance.

Suddenly began to lose his poise, to flee all matters related to their own feelings, avoid phrases
gallant. Fernanda was not wrong. Now is the time that love had come, after which time both had
run, so many tears had cost.

His talks, but were indifferent affairs, had a delicate, exquisite. Spoke hours and hours without
getting tired of the smallest things, for the sake of being so close to listen.

Fernanda chatting with all the joy of his heart, heal the timidity of his devotee, On the contrary,
enjoy seeing the childish efforts that avoided confessing his love,
knowing that once she gave the signal would be delivered bound hand
and foot.

The moment finally arrived.

One day the beautiful widow decided to declare it.

They spoke of marriage of remarriage.

Luis began to startle, to give their views trembling voice, trying
to escape the conversation.

Fernanda suddenly said with perfect calm and resolute tone:

- I
will not return to marry a second time.

He turned pale.

The face is so sad that the girl, barely repressing a smile, yet
repeated with higher resolution:

- I will not marry a second time
... unless you.

The count looked haggard.

- Is it really so? - Finally asked with a trembling voice.

- And
so true! - "She said smiling at him.

- Give me that hand, Fernanda.

-
Take it, Luis.

They are strongly shook for a moment.

The count got up without saying another word.

When he got home, I wrote a long letter of six sheets painting with vivid colors his passion,
giving fervent thanks, calling himself unworthy worm three or four
times.

The marriage was arranged for when the year of mourning was over.

It was two months. Decided secrecy and that the ceremony would be held either in Lancia. A few days
before it would default to Madrid shortly after he would gather him, and the court would together
forever.

In the villages is very difficult to hide anything: a wedding project impossible. By intensity
of each pair of eyes look becomes a hundred pairs, by virtue of noise,
each ear a hundred ears.

In His Steps, in their eyes, in the way of greeting and farewell lacienses ingenious as the
real wizards guessed what they thought, was exactly the progress of those relationships that
were touched to the quick of the heart.

One evening, passing Manuel Antonio in front of the gloomy abode of
the count, striding out the girl with a cardboard box in his hands.

The nose felt queer smell of hunting, winds took a moment and followed her.

- Bye, Laura - she said before her passing.

And turning suddenly asked him casually:

- How is your love?

- The count is not bad.

- Ah! As I said ... As I do not see two days ago ... Going shopping for the lady?

- There are shirts for the count.

- How Ramiro house? ... Let me see, I also I have to buy.

The maid opened the box and began to examine queer content.
- They are very fine. This is too expensive for me, daughter.

-
Yes, sir, are expensive. Then the count is still not good. Want the
entire coast that are of silk, and even though I walked all the shops,
there are none. Simply choice but to order them.

- Silk? Mother!
Then we will marry.

- I do not know about that, sir - was quick to
replicate the maid with signs of trouble.

- Stand back, hypocrite!
- Said laughing .-- You know like me and like everyone else ... What
when?

- I say that I know nothing.

But the queen was so insistent,
he was so expressive and family after a while raised disgorge what
he had inside.

- Well, look, I can not tell what's fixed point, but
I think he married and soon. The other day I heard a few words to
the Countess ...

- What word?

- Said the housekeeper, as their son
was, would spend a season on the Farm. Then, looking through the keyhole,
I saw mourn. In addition, Fray Diego was yesterday at home ... I do
not know if I should say ...

- Come, woman, who cares? Do you imagine
that I am a newsletter?

- Then I heard him say goodbye to time: "Nothing,
nothing, they are quite right, it is much better do so in Madrid.
This is a very envious people ... "

The joy he felt the land Columbus
discovered the New World was nothing compared with that of our queen.
Not only knew without a doubt they got married, but where there to
perform the ceremony. Embarrassed by news so soon capital and willing
to relieve of that weight, he began to think about who would be most
effective. His thought was right Amalia. To the palace of Qui침ones
straightened, then, his petite, graceful steps.

It was the hour of
dusk. Found the lady sitting in his cabinet, without light, delivered
without certainly one of those intense and painful meditation for
some time that the embargoed. Manuel Antonio was jovial and talkative,
he tried to cheer his best, attracting new blood to her heart sore
for the stabbing was more painful. Requested chocolate roistered took
it nicely: Amalia came to forget their worries. And when most neglected
was bang! pump. But dropped slightly, with infinite art, art a woman
who has only reinforced by the male talent.

The only thing he felt
was not being able to see her face. The cabinet was almost in darkness.
But very clearly warned the wreckage of the explosion at the sound
of the voice in the cold hand to say goodbye.

Amalia was standing
rigid, immobile, long time. Apoyose in the shade of crape to watch
the street and shattered. He tried to open his desk to take the knob
of the essence, but he too turned the key and broke the lock.

Left
the room and wandered through the darkened corridors and stairways,
with uncertain plant as a ghost. Far away he saw a bright spot and
headed toward him involuntarily like a butterfly. It was the dining
room was already lit. Sitting at the table, assembling a shepherds
of mud, remnants of its past wealth was Josephine. The lamp shade
live cast light on his head and gold peel like an orange