 Individuals came twelve royal academies and then were
no more working.

The seven wise, so deep in linguistics, which had just come without the phoenix, and they were
therefore condemned to die, also attended, but, although they were promised the sorry if you
read this letter, failed to read, nor could tell what language was
written.

The Fortunate King was thought then the most unfortunate of all kings
have complained been complicit in a crime in vain, and feared the
vengeance of the powerful Khan of Tartary.

That night eyes could not sleep late.

Her pain was, however, much more desperate, when waking up the next day early morning knew that
the Princess had disappeared, leaving written the following words:

"Father, nor do I seek, or pretend to find out where I go, if you
want me dead.

Suffice know that I'm alive and in good health, but not see me again until you have decoded
Kan mysterious letter and disenchanted my dear Prince. Goodbye. "

VII.

Venturosa Princess had gone with her two friends on foot and on a pilgrimage, to visit a saint
hermit who lived in the wilds and rough mountains towering to a short
distance resembled the capital.

Although the Princess and her friends had wanted to go to the Shrine Knights, had not been possible.
The road was more suited to goats, camels, elephants, horses, mules
and donkeys, which, with forgiveness is that, were the beasts that
are used to ride in that kingdom.

For this and devotion was the princess and without any entourage chirped his two confidants.

The hermit who came to visit was a very penitent man was in the odor of sanctity. The mob also
intended that the hermit was immortal, and was not without reasonable grounds for this claim.
In all the country had no memory of the hermit when it was established in the recesses of
those mountains, which rarely showed himself to human eyes.

The Princess and her friends, attracted by the fame of his virtue
and his science I have been looking seven days for those byways and
byways. During the day they walked in search between brambles and
weeds. At night took shelter in the hollows of the rocks. Nobody had
to guide them and craggy as the site or any of the popular Cabrerizos,
for the inspired fear the curse of the hermit, ready to throw it to
who invaded his domain temporary, or who gets disturbed in his prayers.
It is understood that this hermit, as cursing, a pagan. Despite the
natural goodness of his soul, his religion required him grim and terrible
to curse and throw anathema