 

I

The reasons for my uncle founded the tenacity of their efforts
were very wise, and I was going sent by mail, hand written with awkward,
quill pen, ink rancid fat letters and antiquated spelling, bearded
paper purchased in the tobacconist's place.

I do not just threw on deaf ears, but the case for me was to meditated a lot and, therefore,
between claim and respond to it and think I was passing a good season.

The first letter which dealt with the issue was the largest of the eight or ten in the series.
He feared it out of the blue slip, and I prepared the way for their
purposes, "taking things from way back, as if we try first, but by
far, for the first time.

"

"I would greatly hindered the pen between the fingers", in that they
revealed the harshness of the lines, inequality of points and signals
over a fresh smear or spread licked with the edge of the hand, "but
with patience and goodwill overcame the impossible."

"Your father's parents - I wrote - not other children managed to your
father and me.

I was the primogeniture, and as such, this root from the point and time I was born. Your father,
as more needed, and fell to the world, and rolling a lot for him, took good flow and a woman
there was no gold to be paid. In this trace I painted it when he came to realize their projects
marriage, and to take possession, in pure jest, of poverty that was his by inheritance free from your
grandparents. Was a few days coming, and I never see him again or else on earth. May he rest in eternal
peace.

"I also walk the day I got married, and had a good woman, and children that the Lord was removing
as I gave them. With the last of them was his mother. Blessed and praised be His divine will,
even that with which we are overwhelmed and beleaguered humanity! As yet I was strictly old
and I felt strong, and in these narrows and roughness of the soil abundant grass and comfort
were the short ambitions of my mind, I learned to drag bravely the cross of my pains, and
I even managed to forget, time walk, that had in tow, come on, I became a burden, and came to be
men of good content and attached to the motherland as the ivy to morio. From time to time we
wrote my brother and I, and thus did he know my fortunes and misfortunes, I'm your birth and
your sister, then this marriage of a rich American who took their land, the death of your mother
and the paths that wouldst with books from the classroom, and making it as going esponjándote
man.

"Once your card at fault gave more than usual, which was very little, and the first I had at the
end of the month was yours and tell me that your father had died of a sunstroke bitter, or something
of this art. Absent your sister and full of family and property in the other band, were left alone
in here, and aticuenta in the world, although the means of fortune to brace it at your leisure.
Like me, except the comparison of people and places. I offered with this mine, suspicious
lot, truth be told, that I wanted the stake, done with all my heart, because conjecture your
way of life and knew your picture by Pictures I'd been sending. Neither the one nor the other
was rigged well poverty and rustiquez of these parts, it seemed to me. And it would not seem
out of the way, because that was your answer, well rooted out its niceties and courtesies. Since
then was pears for pound the letters between us. You run the mint and Mecca, and I grabbed
firm these rocky hills, as montuna fence. And so we've been pulling so beautiful: you not remember
twice a year the saint of my name and I no hurry for it something more, because while I had health,
I joy, and in light of how well she was accompanied by live among these people and these cliffs
and even their beasts, and I seemed to see and feel them strength, flesh from my bones and blood
of my own veins. But you were young and had a long time and much land in front, I old and very
few fantasies in your head, and no leftover heat in the mass of blood made many years after
one of their own, and yesterday morning, as they say, a bit of anything, a drink of milk more
than the usual, the air a door, gives flight of a mosquito, my mayor in bed. It took me out of it,
and went to enter the tomb. The oak tree was swaying as if it needed the land that held, or
she will take off from the roots, or could not with the weight of its own branches. And give
me the uphill Anseo just look at them, and gladly hand the vent yesterday implement or the ax
with which I amused and the arable land in the dense forest, Today I asked the paluco the cripple,
as the strut supporting the jastial cracked, and Worse than this, that the mind is singing along
with the bones that and hastily and can no longer with the skin.