 

His voice, which seemed to come from a cadaver, rang clear and loud to the camera. There was a murmur
repressed in the crowd. The dean, with tears in his eyes, replied:

- Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for justice!

And he put the sacred particles in the mouth.

The news flew around the city. This strange and terrible oath, which were repeated each other
caused a deep impression on the public. Relatives and friends of the count with exaltation perorated
in all groups. One of those he came to direct exposure to the King, signed by all residents,
asking them to revise the process again the colonel. But already had advanced the dean, fiery
and eloquent man, who got the bishop and the chapter give him their representative to go to
Madrid to manage the rehabilitation of his friend childhood. He had improved a little, at
least, the disease had parked. The consumption continue, but the outside is not noticed. Not told
anything about what was being plotted. The dean had time to go to Madrid, reaching an audience
of the king, speaking to the soul by painting eloquently the solemn oath he had heard, a real gathering
of MS office reintegrating the Count in all his honors, crosses and
decorations, and become a crazy Lancia anxiety.

I rejoiced when he learned that his friend had not expired!

From the galley accelerated that made the trip ran to the palace
of Onís and precautions to not impress too told the betrothal.

The colonel was preoccupied at times with his face tucked into his hands.

- What time is it? - Asked out.

- The twelve just given.

- Let's see, soon, my uniform! - Said with a strange energy in without assistance.

- Ray of God! Then, my uniform! - Turned to utter with violence, seeing that no one moved.

The countess went to the cupboard and brought to an end. It was quickly dressed, put on your
chest the band of Carlos III and all the crosses he had won. There were so many that not fitting
in the left side, had to go some to the right. In this way he was led to Street barreled window
locks, and there stood up. They soon leave Mass the faithful of twelve, the most popular of
which were held on Sundays. All they could see from afar that strange figure, the corpse dressed
in full uniform.

And with a feeling of awe, respect and compassion, all marched in silence under the window, unable
to separate her eyes. For three consecutive Sundays Colonel had the strength to get up and back on
the same site. There was still half still time flaunting their badges with ecstatic eyes in
a vacuum, without seeing or hearing the crowd who gathered in front of the palace and showed
him held each other serious and painful excitement. The fourth wanted to do the same, he joined
with violence to you dress, but immediately fell back on the pillows to rise no more. At night gave
his soul to God that brave and honorable soldier.

Poor father! The count could not remember that scene, which had been deeply impressed in his
brain, without tears crowded to her eyes. He had inherited from the exquisite delicacy of feeling,
a susceptibility that was becoming sick, no serenity, initiative, the unshakable firmness that
enhanced the soul of Colonel Field. The current Earl had an overly sensitive and gentle temperament,
background, honesty and shame it was the moral heritage of the Country. But these qualities
are offset by one character weak, great, gloomy, which come to him, no doubt, from the family
of his mother.

Ms María Gayoso, widow Countess de Onis, daughter of baron Oscos was an original being, exceptionally
so original that bordered on the unbelievable. In his entire family, from three or four generations
to her at least, had noted something bizarre in some of its members played on the edge of insanity and
other entered fully inside. His grandfather atheist had been an inveterate supporter of Voltaire
and the Encyclopedia that last minute had given to drunkenness, according to the town council
was dragged by one day demons to hell. Actually died of spontaneous combustion, which could to fuel
like fable. His father was a fool to whom her mother, a woman of unusual energy, had always
enslaved to degradation. Of his uncles, one stood in the asylum, another was very remarkable
mathematician, but as eccentric in his oddities were kept as a source of anecdotes Lancia funny,
another went into the village, married a farmer and was killed by
force of spirit.

He had only one brother, the current baron Oscos. It was also an original and eccentric. At
the start of the civil war went to the side of the Pretender and joined his army, but provided
to serve as a private. The whole campaign was in this way. It was not possible more effort
that it put the magnates who surrounded D. Carlos and the king himself, forcing to accept the official's
office. He was wounded several times and one of them so badly, in the face, that he got a deep scar.
As his face was the most unfortunate and that could be seen, winding path that ended Colorado
to lend a monstrous appearance and even feared.

He was younger than his sister Mary. Not yet reached their fifties. Lived celibate and single
in the manor that had on the street Oscos Well, nothing great indeed. He was rarely at home
of his sister, not dislike, but retracted it and its rough genius. Leaving little house, especially
during the day. Had few and friends. The most intimate of all Only you can say they enjoyed
their privacy, a friar exclaustrated, before being ordained had served in the army as an officer.
Fray Diego was its constant companion. Baron, for his somber, his eccentricities, and especially
so frightening of his face, inspired fear among the population overall. The children felt in their
presence a panic. Parents and babysitters, to reduce them to obedience, threatened them with
him - I'm going to tell the Baron! - Here comes the Baron! - Today I saw the Baron and asked
if you were obedient, etc. And the baron, for his action, always bland, so harsh and loud voice
and the suddenness with which he used to speak, was for the innocent
creatures a true ogre.

He was always armed with a pair of pistols, the Rapier his staff was a real sword. It said
it had fired on a raised only because had opened a letter, and that on several occasions had taken
the children who dared to make faces on the street, put them in the barn, stripped and whipped
brutally brake with the straps of his horse. Real or invented these stories, contributed to
credit from Lancia child element as a monster of ferocity which had to flee, if the tremor of
the legs so spoiled.

One of the things that helped to instill terror in the small and a certain respect, not without
fear, in large, was the horse that the Baron had, a fiery eye horse genius and fierce and furious
and no one dared to ride him more than he and his friend Fray Diego, had served in the cavalry.
To remove a drink that always had the right, and yet Gross was the indomitable pulling leaps and
kicks, putting bystanders in shock. When Baron was riding, and bucking and giving arms rising out of
the house, the street is Thrilled residents leaned out windows, children took refuge in the
skirts of their mothers, centaur looked astonished that all afraid. Really the baron in such
Oscos time, his face disfigured, his eyes fierce, big mustaches spliced
??with whiskers, stubby and bristling, and the formidable torso hit
the horse, was a figure that instilled fear.

Had to go back to fantasy to the irruption of the barbarians find something similar. Neither Alaric
and Attila and Odoacer had to have ugly and ominous aspect or produce more grim. Judge yourself
the effect would cause between neighbors when a timid season gave him ride out after midnight
and through the streets of the city accompanied by a servant, also gentleman in another horse.

La Comtesse de Onis was in a kind of sex so outlandish, at least, as his brother. Short, plump,
round face, pale and dead black eyes, hair stuck to temples with quince paste, always dressed
in purple habits of the Nazarene. Lived secluded in his palace as a nun in the convent. Delivered
living in absolute devotion but devotion to a whimsical, fantastic, nothing like the real souls
who practice mystical. All his life he had shown signs of an eccentric humor, but since the death
of Count had ruled that both could well be his eccentricities as hobbies, not the slightest. As
a young man had shown a very modest nature of its exaggeration verging on the ridiculous. Her
friends teased quite often affecting some freedom of speech. As castísimos were the ears of the
maiden of the Oscos, the English seem a miss those of a sergeant at his side. I could not
bear that his brother's underwear was in marriage with it when the washer on wearing or carrying.
If that gave him pants to sew a button he was doing as he ran to his room and wash hands thoroughly,
and even tell them was put a few drops of holy water. Apretábase the breast to hurting yourself
up the collar of the dress against the requirements of fashion, not moved around but a dark
shirt, and when the gloves did not ever shook hands with a man.

The story of their marriage was truly curious, full of comic incidents that repeated for a long
time in the city. About everything that happened on the first night boyfriends, real or invented,
it was very funny and worthy of inclusion in a novel by Paul de Kok

During the marriage, the virtue of chastity templose a bit. It almost seems to say excused. But
when she was widowed again flare up markedly. Especially in the past years acquired the appearance
of madness. When praying the rosary, which was twice a day, sent previously raised to divert
to roost for the duration, the cock of the hens; then ordered separate spoons and forks and brackets
males and females. Finally, was placed in a window on the front side of the house to prevent
none pee in the corner where they used to passersby. One day came the coachman to say that one
of the mares were in heat.

Both are angry that, having fought sharply for daring to notify such nastiness, sent immediately
sell it. A After the groom surprised giving a kiss to the cook got sick of disgust. Both came out
of the house immediately.

He liked, however, be gathering in the early hours of the night, but only clerics. I used to
sit in a chair, before which, intentionally or not, probably with intent, two chairs placed
so that seemed to be behind a fence. Shortly after Priests enter and encourage conversation,
the countess slept soundly, and was well until nine in the robes were leaving, of course, without
shaking hands. As the house had a chapel, leaving very few times, and those by car. He kept all
the gold that came into his hands, the most secret places in the attic or the garden. Sometimes
by this greed, or more properly by this mania for magpie, the house was in real straits: willed
that her son asked to borrow some quantities before digging the pelucones.

He was also greedy, very greedy, could eat candy without a source of hints indigestion. But there
had to be made by the nuns: for strange contradiction with their pious inclinations, I hated
everything smelled convent.

As for this woman bizarre, we can say crazy, educated the present Count de Onis. His character
suffered a lot. To counteract this excessive sensitivity, that weak and vacillating temperament
and great, dark humor that was sometimes sad samples would have required a manly outdoor education,
teacher and intelligent energetic awakening in your body know the spirit and the resolution
of the Country. Happened Otherwise unfortunately. The countess insisted that race should not
go after him depart Lancia. Therefore considered a college town in the career of law, which
is the layer with the rich kids hide their idle purpose of life. While it lasted, and completed
long after the countess was subject to his authority in a way that ridiculous. Never leaving
home without permission, did not smoke in their presence, gathered at dusk, praying the rosary,
confesábase when she ordered. As his body was developed prodigiously, was transformed into a bizarre
and athletic young man, his spirit still so childish and submissive as if it never happened ten
years. In this life withdrawn and agravose the native effeminate timidity of his character, his
delicate sensibilities became sick, shady and suspicious genius. And the most unfortunate was
that, without being a louver, was endowed of clear intelligence and possessed a common penetration
reserved and timid men. Illustration and lacked experience, but knew how to keep a conversation
discreetly and is not escaped the defects of others. Like almost all weaklings, enjoyed a sometimes
viciously at their expense. Vengeance is for people but not making those I have too vigorous
and spontaneous. However, these bursts of irony and malignancy it
was not common.

Appeared more like a young conservative, quiet, melancholy of courtesy and chivalrous, sensitive
heart, full of affection and respect for his mother.

After the race had ended their hopes and even projects Lancia leave,
to go the court, to travel for some time.

Enough, however, the countess's refusal to contain him and make him desist. Continued, then,
his life of leisure, the more so since no had an obligation to look even occasionally books
of jurisprudence.

Only by engaging in entertaining the growing seasons of certain crafts, and the romantic reading of the
works then in vogue. It was clever carpenter, not as his father, then gave him the watch. Recently
took a liking to farm work and leisure he owned in the vicinity of the village and began to improve
markedly. Denominábase Farm: Dist little over two miles Lancia had a big old house, ramshackle:
behind her a beautiful forest of oak and large front and fertile prairies. Began to go every
afternoon after lunch, raised cattle and some horses, planted trees opened up channels and fences.
At home barely touched. In this new hobby won His body, which became harder and more agile, and his
character. Melancholia, that both tormented him, it was tuning, serenose his mind was becoming
more firmly in the treatment people and more security for itself and certain disclosures of
black humor, rage and despair that no cause of rare rushing him and
made him appear strange to the servants as an epileptic, disappeared.

Thus came to twenty-eight, he began to frequent the house of Quiñones, and his life underwent
profound transformation.

It was nine o'clock in the morning when the servant awoke from a restless sleep, incomplete,
for deliver a letter. He dropped with affected indifference on the night table, but then that
the servant was hastened to pick it up and opened it with visible excitement. Although it
was already nearly two years lasting relationships with Amalia, never
opened this letter without His hands shook.

Truth, they wrote very few times. But the rarity of cards certainly helped troubled about the
deep love in her sensitive nature timid had taken root.

"This afternoon at three o'clock. On the podium, "said the letter only. His embarrassment did not
dissipate completely. Appointments as it was extremely dangerous, causing him, amid happiness,
a sense of fear that it could not overcome.

Amalia had asked that the deleted; but paid no attention whatsoever. And he felt totally unable
to oppose his will. Spent the morning nervous, upset. To calm gave a ride, got to the Farm; but
returned after the unrest that had left it.

When the appointed time came he left home and took the street of locksmiths. It was the hour that
is just a bystander. Lancia neighbors usually eat both. At three
are therefore desktop or resting. At the end of Locksmith, at the
corner of the street Santa Lucia, is the Church of San Rafael, which
has its main entrance on it. The Earl entered the temple after taking
holy water, as that will make their prayers. Was entirely alone, or
so it seemed at first glance