 I'll go first ... I'm leaving.

- Jesus, Mommy!

Do not worry your mercy now thinking about it. It hurts, a lot of damage. Sosiéguese.

- Poor! But you ... breaks ... relationships ... the gentleman ... That is your ...

- "My what, Mommy?, Startled and asked Cecilia instance, as the grandmother
took in finish.

"My what, Mommy of the soul? Speak, say, for the Blessed Virgin, do not let me in this terrible
indecision. Is my enemy? Will my torment? My unfaithful lover? My what?

- Is your ... your ... your ... t. .., Josefa kept repeating signal,
each time at intervals longer and lower pitch, until the mysterious
sound of the syllable became gloomy murmur and murmur in a mere movement
of the lips, which did not last long either.

Disease had its crisis. Had expired.

Cecilia had never seen anyone die, so to be convinced by the touch of her grandmother encouraged
not just when the most vivid thought, the horror rather than grief tore a terrible cry and deprived
him of sense. Clara and Nemesia sign came, and found hugging in bed with the corpse, which had
trouble separating. Fair was his huge pain. Since that time lacked a time his protector, his wife,
his young friend his relative, his beloved mother, and to more despair, remorse quedole Ever After
that in the confusion had forgotten to put in the hand of the dying
candle soul, prepared so early for that same case.

The duration of the disease Josefa Alarcon, was delivering medical Cecilia, always without saying
who came word, different amounts of money, the same as it received with one hand and the other
went to Jose Dolores Pimienta, effectively created the Butler and cashier. He ran, in effect
for that short time (very short for those who longed be repeated occasions to approach pay Cecilia
and every day new services) all expenses that caused the sick, and dead, adjusted to the known
beadle Barroso preparations for the funeral. Being very close the house of Avocado Street to receiving
visitors who come to offer his condolences to Cecilia, and to celebrate the funeral, provided
Pepper's body was moved to the living room where he and his sister lived in Pump Street, where
body was present at ten o'clock at night until three pm the following day. No catafalque was erected,
dressed in the habit dead Mercedarian straw color, belting the usual black belt of the Order
of Mercy, and tucked into his box lined with black cloth, was placed in a litter common among
large wax candles and silver candlesticks.

The teacher Uribe, with his officers and the many friends and Pepper, watched over all night
and when the litter burial led to shoulder, taking turns in groups
of four to The cemetery, located in the small suburb of San Lazaro,
the end of this road name.

The only incident that somehow marró the solemnity of the act, was that in a few words will refer.
The funeral home was far from the cemetery about half a league, and the shortest path not driving
through the streets of the population, but by winding paths, shaded
luxurious trees from houses and gardens, which then occupied the area
throughout the vast area today Monserrate titled.

Where stands the modern church which gives its name, suddenly joined the funeral procession,
seeking to be confused with it, a stranger and poor black degustation, which looked tired a long
run. After he appeared to just another horse in military uniform, jacket cloth, with two gold
epaulets and cavalry saber.

He was young and brave gesture.

No beating in tiny, swooped upon the fugitive, and, pointing his weapon at the chest, cried:
- Date, Malanga, or I'll kill you.

- Tonda! Tonda! cried the of the party who knew him by sight or treatment.

Caught thus Malanga between the tip of the sword and the litter that was the deceased had no
choice but to surrender to the mercy of the captor, who, without dismounting, he tied side
by side threw him forward, and saluting the military with air gun, told the mourners: - Gentlemen,
I hope I waive the hard time. He had command of His Excellency the
Captain General, to catch this rogue, living or dead, and I've met.
To follow the funeral. Health, gentlemen.

The first stop for the
funeral procession made a big gate that faces the blue sea Atlantic
House of Charity, so that the Charity Children of both sexes sing
one for the soul of the deceased, by paying a gold coin, as alms