 Babbling, then broken words, She took both hands
to the face. Those moments were solemn. The floating irreparable insult, and appeared to be heard,
again and again, in silence. Canon muttering, moaning, sighing, with their faces covered. Finally,
hands down, embozose with fury, and, after searching out like a blind man along the wall, disappeared
from the block, giving the foot, to ago, a terrible bang.

Ramiro felt all its mechanical attachment to this man had just bartered in sudden rancor. The tense
and hostile attitude, which still retained, new impulses of hatred suscitábale against his victim.

When
he began to calm down, "he said aloud, sitting on the couch:

- I
did not need him, or anyone!

II

Avila few days to more sad that this Monday, February 17, 1592.

The city awoke in a sinister expectation. The horror of imminent execution by all parties seemed
to float mixed with the morning mist.

Chico Market Amid stood a large black cube, the scaffold, and gusts North shake against the squeegee
pine skeleton gallows. Funeral justice ministers were moving around. At ten o'clock brought
the firm, the chandeliers, the crucifix. Later the boys from the executioner came to the site
and the two black pillows for the defendant. The rain fell at times thin ice.

The drudgery of every day began, but the neighbors came and went more severe than usual, kicking snow
on Wednesday. Some spoke mysteriously found, others discussed mesons in unusual nervousness without
raising too loudly, but sheer muzzle and sometimes taking manly parts with the whole hand, to
give more force to his bullying and swearing.

With no open doors and windows, the houses of the nobility had the appearance of faces pathetic
and muted. We aimed in the air that fear, that death disgust court overwhelms reason, and a
shadow of disgrace enveloped the entire Avila. The proudest of his knights was to be executed on behalf
of the King. No further decline would have been eighty-sweep eight towers, waiting now, with
strange pallor, the rupture of that neck, which seemed have embodied the fierceness of the wall.

Word
spread that, at two in the afternoon, Don Diego would be pulled out
of the Corn Exchange.

That building as a prison was for the nobles and rose from the Keep and the Alcazar, on the
outside, opposite the Mercado Grande. When Ramirez came to the facade emblazoned, employees
of royal justice and community thronged and buzzing like flies on either side of the gate and
around the source, while the fraternities and orders waiting in long line, from Market Square
to beyond the convent Santa Maria de Gracia. The monks prayed.