 Will be a gala of the eyes to see go for a trail of rose bushes I know,
arm in arm, Sun, Ana Lucia. Lucia, tomorrow we go. Sol, I will now home to ask permission
to Dona Andrea. Do you think, Lucia and Peter invite Adela Real? Upa, Ana, upa! There I have
some little Indians in the village will give you matter for a Table delicious. Come on, doctor?
- John a hand stroked Ana Lucia kissed her with a kiss gently scolded her and went into the
corridor, speaking as a very happy doctor.

Ana Lucia called for a look, and so I was near him, without speaking, and smiling fortunately,
brought upon his breast with his hands in an effort Lucia and Sun, who were each one to one side
of her, his eyes wandering over their heads, such as talking, retained
long united the hands of both girls on their own.

And Sol Lucia looked so cute way, that as soon as Anna was asleep,
went Lucia Sol, took her by the waist lovingly, and once in his room
began to empty with gestures almost feverish their boxes and drawers.

-
All, all, all for you - and Sun wanted to talk, and she would not
let her -.

Look, try on this hat. I never got what I post. Try it, try it. And this, and this one. These
three are yours. Yes, yes, I say no. Look, suits: one, two, three. This is the prettiest for
you. Do you hear? I'm very fond of Peter Royal. I want you to want to Pedro Real. You look
very pretty. You always look prettier than me. But hear me, John, I do not want. Just leave
John to myself. Enójalo. Treat it wrong. I do not want you to be her friend. No, Do not tell
me anything! yes, it's joke, yes, joke. See? This mauve dress itself is going to be fine. Let's
see, how well does your hair brown. See? It is very new. Does the bra as a chalice flower, a little
straight, not like that now, they look like a glass of champagne: very thin waist, and very
wide shoulders. The skirt is smooth, not pleated or creases; falls under the weight of the silk
to the feet. See? to me is very short. To you I'll be fine. It's a bit wider, to Watteau. My
shepherd! My shepherd! I never have put it. Did you know? I do not like colors. Ah! see: here
- and something to hide two hands locked behind his back - here you are, and not you going to
take ever, although angry we Dona Andrea. Close your eyes.

The closed Sun fortunate to be so loved by her friend, and when opened,
was in arm, and made by taking off with a gesture that Lucy was stopped,
a bracelet of four rings Pearl margaritas.

- Yes, yes, it is very
rich, but I want you to have it.

No, nothing, nothing I say, you know? I have here another black pearl. And never, never take
it away! I want to be very good - and took her two hands, and kissed her passionately on both
cheeks -.

Come, let's see Ana!

And left the room, holding the waist.

At the field, the field! Doña Andrea will not know that Pedro Real, that if he knew, would not
let go Sol: Although John what do you deny it? A John! This, this was what she wanted to Sun
'Well, John, that does not leave the sun a lot. " John asked in vain for the older sister by Sis.
She was at home when he entered, but now no: will be at home in any neighbor. No, sister was there
was in the room, behind the blinds! She saw who did not see it. "Close your eyes, sister, you
see not what you should not see!". And when Juan came out, the blinds are closed, and eyes
that close.

At the field, the field! Four mules pull the carriage with silver necklaces and bells, because
Ana go merrily and mules are tied at the hip left a big red bows, which look good on black
skin. The driver is Pedro Real, which has next to Adela, in Imperial, Juan and Lucia, in, with
older people, which is very respectable, but not us required for the course of the novel, Ana sitting
among pillows, very best with the joy of travel with your notebook in your lap, to copy what you
like the way that already dies which is good, and Sun at his side, dressed Sedille opal color, quiet and
bright like a star.

Real Peter bit his curly mustache when he saw that Sun would not be his partner in the box. And
Adele was very polite. But Anna does not need anything? John, Ana go well? Should down. I'm
going down for a moment, to see if Ana is going well!

Fell many times. And the mules, but dexterous, more than once were some of the road, as if not
quite put into they thought the driver.

He was about six leagues the way, all over to one side and a lush vegetation as there was no way
to have the eyes but ever present and moving. For there in the background was a coconut grove,
or a row of palms that was going to far in the throat two mountains, and was at the edge of
the road, a hill full of blue and yellow flowers that ended in a river of white foam, nourished
by the waters of the mountains, or were already distance, impressive as two messages from earth
to sky, two dormant volcanoes, a Serpa skirt as white-water streams live and mischievous, were collected,
as servants hit at the feet of their masters, ancient cities, toothless and broken, in the
balconies wrought iron, held as by miracle without walls that support them on the doors Stone,
grew up in threads that reached the ground Ipomea heavy vines. Of a church which was painted
ceilings and gilded with fine gold of the oldest of America the capitals of the pillars, left
standing, like a shell stuck in the ground at the edge, the bottom of the altar, sheltered by a half
dome: a grove had grown to love the altar, the interior wall covered with moss, from a distance
gave the appearance of formidable cave; and was common and extremely pleasing to see out from
among the boulders in bloom, at the least noise of people or carts, a flock of pigeons. Another church,
that had not been standing more than the cruise, the dome was completely
green, and side walls of a pink and black as the edges of a wound.

And on the ground could not get the foot to jump over a stream.

They came to the volcanoes, passed through the ancient cities: going beyond, and did not stop.
Lucia, in the shade of her parasol red, it felt like the Lady of all that natural grandeur
and as if the whole world, that was a beautiful painting eyes, had not been made rather than
to sing with its multiple languages ??Lucia loves of Jerez and its cousin. And She saw herself inside
the skull as if it were full of all those flowers: the happened whenever he was alone with Juan
Jerez next. Adela and Peter spoke of formalism events, which had the virtue of making Adela contemplative
and quiet, giving Peter time to be silent much of the road, which took advantage of him to
hold himself animated symposia: and every moment was that of "John, how is Anne? I'll go down
a moment, see if it offers something to Ana. " And Lucia laughed, and took it for a certainty
that while Sun was a child modest, and told him that Pedro Real seemed fine, and saw that led
him in the soul, what John did not seem a happy event, but it prudently silent. In the chariot,
the sun was all happy exclamations: never, never in his life of poor orphan, Sol had been running
the rivers, forests clothe strong purple and blue bells, and green and flower fields. A coral
pink cheeks dyed it, and onyx from Mexico never had greater transparency than the skin thin sun
that morning of happiness in nature. Ay! good Ana smiled a lot, but had forgotten to lift
of her skirt the notebook.

       

* * * * *

And suddenly sounded a few songs, it darkened the road as a pleasant shade, and refrained mules
the way, with outstretched buckles and bells. Peter was a jump to the door the carriage, next
to Sol, Ana asking what he wanted. But here dropped all and Sun itself, which soon became the
coach, to go with Ana, and encourage them to take the short lunch the other, sitting around
a rustic table, enjoyed with vehement appetite, spiced by jokes that
the pious John led and attracted because Ana hear from his seat in
the car, brought for this purpose near the table.

There, in the cups of gourd vines perched on tripods just cut in the vicinity, boiled milk,
judging by the fragrant, frothy, fresh from the cow Durham who poked his head by one of the peaceful
light of the vine. Because it was the place a nice hostel, roofed and trellised vegetables, put
there by the owners of the farm to that visitors might do with really, to reach the city, lunch
on the way farmers. There cheese, milk gushing when cut, and he knew richly with the corn cakes
steaming serving of blue skirt the Indian woman, wrapped in white cloths. There, some boiled eggs,
or egg, which came lying, each in his gourd cup, on a pleasant herbs fragrance that smelled
like flowers. There, in the same coconut shell just split in two, fruit milk with a teaspoon of coconut
carved that flowed from their natural cups. And while it lasted lunch, some Indians, barefoot and
in their suits of canvas, placed on earth their straw hats, playing under another paradorcillo
farther, ready for them, some air very soft string music, which gently warmed by the morning air and
the vine thick, our happy hikers came like a caress. Adela just laughed forcedly. Sun violence
had to be done for no slap in the carriage. Very awkwardly frowned Lucia went after John in the
side door of Anne, and spoke to her, making laugh, a few minutes, and laugh when he heard Sol,
Lucia left her seat, and she was also to the door. Aha! Aha! touch and target, which is a touch
of welcome and farewell, Indians skilled. The Indian girl in blue skirt gives the cow Mirona
like a coconut cups abandoned. On the box are Pedro and Adela: Lucia, less happy, the imperial Juan. And
house the farm, all white, red roof, is within walking distance. Ana and is very pale, and
mules, the smell of the stable, flying way up under the thick canopy of almond Avenue filled
with round leaves and green fruits.

       * * * * *

Very, very happy. Lucia also was happy, but John was not there. Because it was not Juan: the clash
of the Indians, but those were days of break in courts and in schools, forced him to return
to the village, if not gamonal wanted a place that had great friends in government, theft with one
reason or another to the Indian energy land John had been the end point unless they were recognized
in the lawsuit. Indians had left the church with their music, the Sunday before, barely knew that
John would not expect train the next day they brought him to John the mule, he saw that had
adorned all with stars and flowers, palm and all the people coming after him, and many wanted
to accompany him to the city. A little old lady, who had been leaning on his stick, brought him
a scapular of the Virgin, and a beautiful girl, with a son in the back and another in her arms,
came with his husband, who was a fine young man, the head of the mule, the Indian boy put it
up for you give her hand to "good knight", and many came with jars of honey covered with matting
well bound, or other offerings, as if they could take to both legs of the horse, too plump all
that party, and another old man, the father of all, my master, Don Mariano, had never drunk
any liquor, even though he worked the plantations of their own, arrived supported by his two sons,
who were also elders of the people, and with arms raised since he could see John, and as if he
had seen the light after it had expected vain all his life: "Cuddling - he said -. Let me hug!
Lord, absolutely everything that people love him and your child! ". So John, who had moved those
affections, left the farm, two days after he arrived there, when he found that Indians, despite
their efforts, were in danger of being removed from the temporary holding hands, waiting for the
Ultimately, there was John obtained that the judge agreed - the judge who had received the day
gamonal previous gift a very fine horse.

       * * * * *

Very, very happy. Lucy herself, who in two days he spent there gave him an opportunity Juan of surprise
with a sudden change of disposition that he could not understand,
being older and less rational than he already knew, was now like someone
returning from an illness.

It was the house all the visitors, not to be in it then their owners, who were like Family of John
Peter, in the evening, went hunting, because it was the time of rabbits, very abundant there.
Of those who brought dead in the bag never spoke, because Ana had not forgive, and still be in
this world that are simple souls pleasure to kill, at the very entrance of the cave where he has
his mate and their offspring the poor animals that have come to discover,
to move house, somewhere in the forest rich in herbs.

But rabbits, dead clever, often fall into the hands of the hunter, because they feel good noise,
make the dead, lest they betray the noise of the leak and closed eyes, as if to shut the hunter
that his men, who plays for his part as he does not see, and thrown away the gun, not to alarm
the rabbit is generally known, is gone, looking away, on the bed of the rabbit, until a good
jump puts his foot on and take it live: once took three very humble one, a color of smoke, which
was to Ana: one was white, which found way to tie a blue ribbon at the neck, gave him to G,
and Lucy brought another, which seemed a captive king, a hard brown, and about fierce eyes that
never closed, while two days, that would not eat, down the first time she had erect ears, bit
the chain that held it, and her teeth was dead.

       

* * * * *

Trips, were few. Without Anna, who had to make them? With it you could not. Neither left Sol Anne
of good will, and Lucia had come to enjoy some when John was not with her. Adela, yes, was stuck
with a thick Indian friendships that he had certain privileges in the farm house and lived in
a nearby, where he spent most of the day Adela, talking the customs of those people with the determined
Petrona Revolorio "and does not create Miss service that will convert, but because I have become
fans. " Women was very robust and good ride, but this did by feet so small that there was no
way that Petrona come to see 'their children' without being asked to teach them, which she did
as he not want to do, especially when the child was before Peter. The hands went hand with their
feet, so that sometimes girls are asked for and cherished, had a simple Listing skirt and a transparent
chiffon gown, which encircled the shoulders and left him beautiful bare arms and high throat.
It was funny face and tiny factions, so that the mouth half open in the center and collected
in two dimples on the sides, was not any bigger than his eyes. The little nose, short and rather
round and round in the end, it was a mischief. His forehead was narrow, and her back, in two bands
not very smooth, black hair in two heavy braids, streaked with red tape, had collected in bangs,
like a crown on top of the head. A shawl was listing always up and down over one shoulder,
and there was none, when he finished off a sentence seemed intentional, was cast forth from
behind the shawl more boldly listing. After casting running, laughing and talking in a jargon that
would be highly educated and citizen, and would be prepared the girl Ana, which was very good,
a sweet coconut tamales and chocolatillo clear it was more like what took so clean and new, our
pretty sick. And while Ana's like, Petrona Revolorio, crossed her shawl, sat at his feet 'not-for-service
but because he had gained fans "and made her stories.

Is the dawn, without Revolorio Petrona was at the door of the nursery with Ana basket of flowers,
which she wanted to put in the glass and see with their own eyes, how was the child? "My little
girl, look at it that gallant is today!, I'm going to tell the child Pedro give us a treat
to dance the ladies, and we will remove the child to dance with Peter. He really is handsome too,
the boy Peter! Look, my little girl: do not bring those jazminotes white, because the strong smell
from here, but here I put in the blue cup, these jasmines San Juan, which here are given all year
long and smell very well at night. With that, my girl, be prepared for dance, and I will provide
a red silk scarf that I have, that is me to place more beautiful than the same girl Sun How
is that Peter died on the girl child Sun! But I do not know what is the girl Adela, who is as dull.
You want my little girl tamales Today coconut or fresh carnecita? Yesterday I killed a cochito,
who is as soft: it was the cochito pink, and flesh is as merengue! Jesus, my little girl, do
not tell me that! If I wait to serve it: Look I'm like the cups of coconut, which say very beautiful
lyrics: 'I serve my mistress. " I'll put the door of my house filled with pots of flowers, and rent
musicians, the day my little girl will see me. And why I do not anyone: for I do not service,
but because I have gained many fans! ".

       

* * * * *

And Peter, like that in the absence of John came to be the gentleman servant of the four girls,
What could he do but be linking serving, and much better when Adela was not around, and Best, though
it was next to Anne, that it did not look kindly at a time when Sol and Peter, and better than
ever when, for some perhaps Lucia and Sol were alone? And then always Lucia had something to
do, go on tiptoe to see if Ana was still sleeping, watching whether they had water the blue birds,
ask if they brought fresh milk to be taken Ana waking: Lucy always
had, when Peter and Sun could be alone, something to do.

It was the place of conversation a lean spacious, polished the floor board, the rail - as whole
house, wood - open on three sides for the three stairs leading to the garden that was in front
of the house. There was the lean-always in shadow, because he wore a copious green vine, glazed
at intervals for some classes of flowers red. Hanging from the ceiling fresco painted a whimsical
leaf and flower garlands such as the vine, some wire baskets covered in red wax, which made
them look coral, all filled with natural flowers, bright and small, and often adorned with
stray strands of old trees growing on the farm, and was, its green-white and grow in threads,
like the gray of that grove. In the sections wall, including interior windows, enhanced by
a live red lines had few large studies of flowers in wood, painted with natural colors by artists
the country with huge property, two of the pictures were of magnolia, one almost open and a certain
beauty of Empress, the other still locked in his own branch, and two tables were pompous of hibiscus
flowers, with bright red leaves, grouped way that will enhance your natural size and beauty.