 Without wishing in any way infer general rules in favor or against any religion, I can
say that without any notable exception, I have observed in all cities Switzerland a clear contrast
with respect to the mercenary, the messiness, the situation of the establishments and customs, and public
instruction of the masses. The Protestant cantons supplied to an insignificant number of despots,
as mercenaries, the vast Most or almost all of these ever left the Catholic cantons. Does the
Protestantism is favorable to liberty and maintains and promotes a sense of dignity personal?
I think so, judging from the facts I have observed in many European states, corresponding to
different races and religions.

As for the taste or instinct for cleanliness and decency, I have seen in Switzerland (and later
I will note the same for other countries) the contrast between twelve of the capital of counties
that I visited. In the series of cities we visited from Geneva to Schaffhausen, through Lausanne, Neuchâtel,
Fribourg, Bern, Lucerne, Altorf, Zug and district in Zurich, and from Saint-Gall to Basel, we
have seen, however, the alternation where are these cities, because of their religious beliefs,
this difference: in Geneva, Lausanne, Neuchâtel, Bern, district in Zurich, St. Gallen, Basel and
Schaffhausen, Protestant cities, decency, cleanliness and care in all public affairs, in Fribourg,
Lucerne and Zug Altorf, slovenliness, carelessness on the masses and streets, lack or shortage
of taste. The same contrast offered by the Swiss cities regarding a popular instruction, to the situation
of the public and to the demonstrations activity and progress as summarized in the customs, industry
and institutions whatever the races subject to observation. In the central region of Switzerland,
dominating perfectly homogeneous territory in its appearance, its products, etc., and favored by
an equal autonomy, I have seen a string of cities from Lake Geneva to the Rhine linked in
this order: Geneva, Lausanne, Neuchâtel, Fribourg, Bern, Lucerne, Zug, Zurich. In these cities
the first three and the fourth and eighth are reformed, and in them are: industrial and commercial
activities, worship arts, great development of the instruction, clear liberalism in institutions,
beauty, dedication to public affairs, significant traditions and forward and request for charitable
purposes, the contrary, in the rest of the cities mentioned which are Catholic and monastic institutions
have been numerous, all concur to express a clear inferiority relative trends quietism, the carelessness,
the routine and filth. It may be that these phenomena have another explanation, but so far I
think materialism of certain practices, the spirit of passive obedience and the example of laziness
given by the monastic communities, account for much of the differences noticeable in the breeds
within a homogeneous territory they occupy.

The history of the canton of Lucerne, whose name, as is well known,
from the ancient beacon (Lucerne in Italian) shone in a city tower,
built in the middle of Reuss and called the Tower-of-water (Wasserthurm)
- that story, I say, is simple and summarized all in the city, like
all Swiss cantons.

A convent or abbey founded to the late seventh century by a feudal lord or owner of the country,
was the core of the current city. Transferred in the eighth century by the Frankish king Pepin
the Short to the abbots of Murbach, one of these later sold, with other districts adjacent to
the Emperor Rudolf of Habsburg. Lucerne in 1332, after holding as vassal various struggles
against the three confederated cantons that were the core of the great confederation, entered
into alliance with them, fought Austria and secured its independence. The domination of the
city of Lucerne on all the city was absolutely and entirely aristocratic institutions. The French invasion
of 1798 changed deeply the situation, but the reaction of 1815 restored the old institutions. The democratic
cause to triumph again in 1831, to suffer further setbacks in 40 and 42 but thanks to the
radical revolution that destroyed the Sonderbund 48, entered the Canton in general via drawn by
the public law of the Confederation.

However, private institutions are still very far from democratic, but apparently the sovereignty
resides in the people. The government is run by a Grand Council (Legislative body) of 100 deputies
of long duration, of which (by a strange combination I have not found
in any other country) 80 are elected by the electors and 20 The 80
deputies, and by a Small-Council (Kleine-Rath) composed of 15 members
charged the Executive, elected every three years by the Groose-Rath,
or grand council.

The Court Supreme consists of 13 judges elected by the Council. The Canton is divided into five
circuits or Amts, which have municipal councils and municipal districts are subdivided into
(Gemeinde) administered by officials only.

The population of the canton of Lucerne is German only by the dominant race and language, and
almost entirely Catholic. In 1850 there were 132.843 inhabitants, of which only 1.563 reformed.
In 1860 the population had dropped to 130.965 individuals. The decrease depends entirely of emigration.
The Canton remains the only Roman Catholicism the state religion. Account on its soil more than 15,000
homes, has a total area of ??1.540 square kilometers and measured
in its greatest length 50 miles and 41 in the higher latitudes.

Most of its territory consists of fertile and picturesque valleys crossed by tributaries of the
Aar, such as the Reuss The Marienthal, the Viggen, the Suren, the Winen, etc. Besides the lake of
Four Cantons that participates significantly, and about three or four small lakes microscopic
encloses Sempach and Baldeg and a small part of the Halwyl, which are navigable. The main
products of Canton are agricultural: grains, plants, cattle and calves filamentous; in your
industry are notable only some cotton fabrics, linen and hemp and the manufacture of cider.

* * * * *

The navigation of the Lake of Four Cantons, to board one of the many steamers that Lucerne depart every
hour, in different directions, is one of the most entertaining. From which runs through the
center of the star lakeside called Kreuztrichter, and passed through
in Kirsiten Woegis through and, having left the coast of the canton
of Schwyz and to the right that of the Unterwalden, everything changes
in appearance and acquires the stamp of majesty and beauty wild.

       Are no longer rolling hills, villas and Verjel happy, but immense
walls formidable rocks, perpendicular, which seem to threaten to collapse
suddenly and case blue-green waves like a cup of the most profound
and varied foreign relief inks.

Small populations appear at the foot of the mountains or climbing on the rocks, as forms of fantasy
or whim that hang over the abyss.

Two promontories that are advanced from opposite sides toward each other, determine a narrow a little
more than a mile wide. The vapor then penetrates into the pit they call "lake Buochs, "leaving
behind of Kreuztrichter, and the basin is developed as a huge pond, closing the horizon on all
sides and full of magnificence. West excel in their rocky and dark frames vegetation districts Beggenried
Buochs ??and to the east, Gersau village of the canton of Schwyz whose political history is
one of the sights of Switzerland. Where like the mountains offer the most beautiful contrasts,
either by its geological formations, either by their vegetation.

Green patch of grass interspersed with dense forests of fir stout; rough landslides our next great
perpendicular rocks that look like one piece, and magnificent stratification, more or less naked,
some horizontal and thin layers, sometimes leaning in different directions and made up of powerful
banks. Such seems as if a legion of Titans had built there, to climb the sky, a swarm colossal
fortifications of different shapes, overlapping the layers of rocks as a masonry wall, and land
a tremendous commotion had then deranged these buildings destroyed and turned into a thousand
moles titanic discordant and terrifying. Wherever the waves of Lake swaying waist oppressed
by mountains - naked rough and fearful below, green in the center, majestic in all its forms,
and steep proud to be divided into deformed peaks and domes, above which are reverberating
the distant peaks of Nidwalden and Uri.

Gersau, as I said, is a historical curiosity. There he excelled at one time the smallest democratic
republic, independent and sovereign nation that has ever existed in the world. The landscape
offered by the humble village, sitting in his llanurita of alluvial and dominated by its beautiful
church, is as cheerful as rare in that river of rocks. Today it has about 1.600 inhabitants
Catholics. Subjected to various dominations to the fourteenth century, and then mortgaged as
a farm, rescued in 1390, after having made an alliance with the three original cantons of the
confederation. From mid-fifteenth century, in full possession of all his rights, was a republic Gersau
sovereign until the end of the eighteenth century, "about 900 people
strong around sex, age and condition, between rulers and ruled, army,
navy "and other paraphernalia of a nation.

The wars of the French Revolution and subsequent events upset the peaceful nationality Gersau,
and after unsuccessful efforts in 1814 and 1846 to regain their independence, the republic was
annexed microscopic definitely the canton of Schwyz. Leaving the joke to one side, I confess that
I have found nothing as sublime as the history of the village rustic shepherds. Never in so little
was seen as large and represented the beginning sacred as the freedom and sovereignty of peoples.

Another
very steep hill, that of Treib, narrow lake basin, facing the Muottas confluence and the village of
Brunnen, and giving a half turn, the steam enters the river or lake of Uri, looking much more
even than great .-- Buochs ??Brunnen is the port the canton of Schwyz in that direction, while
the Art is at the southern end of Lake Zug. Steam Flüelen led us directly to the port of the canton
of Uri, leaving see step Grütli eminence, later the curious Chapel of William Tell, and where like, on
the rocks slices, a swarm of obelisks and pyramids of basaltic and unique aspect inks. What is called
Grütli is a meadow surrounded by woods, which crowns a high hill located on the promontory of
Wylenstein root. There is a solitary house the curious visitors, and near three sources that
belong to the poetic legend independence or William Tell. It was on that site that met on December
8 da 1307, in the absence of William who was arrested, the three
famous patriots of the cantons of Uri, Schwyz and Nidwalden that link
vowed to fight the tyranny of Gessler or the house of Austria and
found the federal independence.

Tell's Chapel, featuring high and just veneration in the country, not for what it is, but the traditions
that evokes, is a temple shaped open arch built on a rock and almost to the level of the lake,
framed by fir trees and under rocks. The waves hit the stands Tellenplatte giving access to,
and sometimes the foam going to go away at the foot of two stone altars that adorn the interior.
The walls and ceiling are more pidgin fresh style representing various passages in the history of emancipation.
Every year, on a fixed day, a Mass is said there in commemoration of the events evoked; and
ensures that the chapel was opened for 114 individuals who met in person to William Tell. The
reason for the erection of the monument is a tradition that I remember seeing translated a
slice of colors, in a shelter of my country when I was nine years. William Gessler prisoner,
on board a boat, a few hours after the ordeal of apple, succeeded, thanks to a sudden storm, which
liquefies it to direct the boat. Passing by the foot of the rock on which stands the chapel,
he jumped to the ground, escaped and Gessler was to wait on average
between Küssnach isthmus and Lake Zug, at the foot of Mount Righi,
where he managed to kill him, freeing his country and taking revenge
for the cruelties suffered.

Some travelers, passing in front of the monuments dedicated to the memory of William Tell, the
Swiss tease and described as fable all that relates to the heroic legend the release of the three-cantons,
and much has been said in a check, is general the opinion that this character did not exist.
The Swiss are offended a lot of that, and have reason. For my part, I believe in William Tell as freedom,
patriotism and glory. Neither the hero was in itself nothing great, nothing that was not natural
and understandable, and there is no reason to reject the authenticity of a legend is that of all free
people, with differences of detail and style. Anyway, people who know how to maintain the worship of
such epics reveals solid virtues and is worthy of freedom.

The great mountain of Rigi is not only interesting point of view that dominates a huge and wonderful
panorama: it is also for the particular circumstance of being the center cantons or small
independent states which formed the nucleus to the Confederation, while the center of a lovely
region of lakes and mountains, which are grouped wonderful variety
and harmony of shapes and forms.

Indeed, the N.-O. and O. Mount Rigi extend along the shores of Lake of Four Cantons Lucerne and
territories Unterwalden, I just described rapidly to the south, the canton of Uri, the E. that
of Schwyz, enclosing the lake funny Lauerz or Lowerz and riparian of Zug, and Vier-Waldstatt district
in Zurich; to N.-E. and N., the canton of Zug, which owns most of the lake of the same name
and all that of Egeria.

It is curious that, with the exception of the canton of Lucerne, is at around Mount Rigi and on the
banks of the series of lakes which are the smallest and oldest cantons Switzerland, - especially
for its small population and resources - which have been the cradle
of free Swiss Confederation, giving up his name, and those who, through
all revolutions and political fortunes have continued with more purity
and power two social forms in almost around the world have appeared
as contradictory after the eighth century, to wit: Catholicism Roman
and democratic republic.

We have seen what the political and social organization Obwalden and Nidwalden: now shall indicate
the main features of that organization in the cantons of Uri, Schwyz and Zug, which I have
drawn much attention despite the extreme speed that toured parts of their territories.

In vapor descended Flüelen we had brought from Lucerne from one extreme to another the magnificent
lake. Flüelen is worthless as the location: it is a miserable village 600 inhabitants, whose
importance is only in the advantage of being the commercial port the canton of Uri and the tip
of the Gran Via setentrional that, up the valley of the Reuss Italy is going to look at the lakes Maggiore
and Lugano, passing by the famous St. Gotthard neck, Strategic so much attention in times of
war or European distrust.

The basin enclosed by the formidable barrier of mountains east through the St. Gotthard is
directed towards the magnificent Mont-Rose refrigerators, and that the tour to the West Furka
in the direction the group Grand Titlis, constitutes the entire canton of Uri, the first of
the Confederation in the range of seniority or of Chancery. This beautiful valley, dominated for so great
mountains and ice, hydrographic center is the small river Reuss which flow the waters of six or
seven streams that bathe as many valleys nearly parallel each other, to either side, transverse
or perpendicular to the Reuss. It is in this series high valleys which is distributed the very
small population of Uri, rough population mountaineers and shepherds, free, independent, simple, naive
and deeply attached his beloved barren soil and religious traditions, social and political.

A modest car repulsive movements led us through the damp and gloomy valley, forty minutes to
the famous city of Altorf, capital of Canton, where he won William Tell immortality in the famous
feat of apple and arrow. The sad and very poor capital the sovereign state of Uri delay in
the valley at the foot of the looming mass of Grumberg, and having on one side the Reuss, otherwise
the Schachoenbach, its tributary, and the nearby north lakeside. The appearance of the sad and desolate
streets, and wherever they are ruined that show how the city has been slow to recover from the
terrible fire that engulfed in 1799. Despite the pride with which residents say its beautiful cathedral
(which is not without some significant internal objects) and four or more convents, which have
however interesting the Capuchin (they say is the oldest of all Switzerland), in spite that, say,
Altorf with 2.150 inhabitants, its silence and stillness and misery, no matter the traveler but
for the memories alive with fountains commemorating the heroism William Tell, and the tower
of unusual appearance, rising on Main Street.

One such source is located in the terrible place where he put the child Gessler William for
this pierce with an arrow an apple placed on the head of the innocent child. The fountain is crowned
by a statue of heroic patriot with a flag in his hand.

A little more than a hundred yards the other source is the group of William and his son. William
condemned to the ordeal, which could cost as expensive but that gave him freedom necessary to
serve their country, close to his heart the fruit of his love, shows halberd under one arm, and
looks up with pride, trusting in God and holiness of their cause. Is beyond the tower of simple shapes,
painted on the outside with fresh depicting the story of William. The street was deserted, and
the three monuments nothing worth to our eyes as works of art, nor do we remember an epic that
could be interested personally. HOWEVER And we felt deeply moved. There were so eloquently in
monuments such as vulgar execution, such candor on them worship the lowly taxed Altorf and poor
residents and many reasons to understand the value of this sublime virtue called patriotism!
... The immortality of a name and a legend to so many through centuries, and that two rough
eloquence of statues in the back of a poor Swiss Valley - immortality understood and deeply felt
eloquence of two souls traveling born in the heart of the Andes - is not were the best proof
that patriotism is not a delusion but a great virtue, a religion,
and the glory is not an illusion, but an eternal halo of the great
characters and free people?

* * * * *

The proportions of the canton of Uri are rather small. State never offered any better evidence
that was no idle promise of Christ: the first shall be last and the last be the first. Uri,
the first State of the Confederation in the order of admission, is the latest by their wealth or
production and its population: this scarcely exceeds 14.700 inhabitants, all Catholics who
speak the German language very adulterated, the same as those of Nidwalden, Schwyz and Zug.
The humble HOWEVER canton is superior to another ten cantons, as to the extension territorial, measuring
an area of ??1.092 square kilometers, taking in the extra length (From south to north) 25 miles,
and its greatest width 43. Canton is the visibly poor, in spite of its numerous valleys, some
quite warm, and have the international via Saint-Gothard.