 It also prevented individuals from the Cabildo, refrain European Mayors
choice, because if this was happening, would not last eight days, it would rise and would be a victim
of his anger, being thieves, and that to avoid such a disastrous event, had to name just Mayors
Don Juan de Dios and Don Jacinto Rodriguez.

The Corregidor, careful with these public threats and insolent pretensions: he acted vigilante
pesquiza in the investigation and the authors, but more accurate measures and judicial as practiced
extrajudicial, could never know the truth to punish offenders, In order to keep everyone quiet
and good harmony, from always tended income to his district.

Come election day, by the year 1781, proposed to appoint the members sugetos meritorious and honest,
of good character and who love justice, so that they could charges play correctly, with the
maturity and trial prescribed by law, and required the critical circumstances in which the
kingdom was. To this end they proposed to D. José Miguel Llano and Valdez, Patricia, D. Joaquin
Rubis de Celis, and D. Manuel de Mugrusa, Europeans, with a view of the rod to come out of the house
of Rodriguez, who pretended it hereditary, and that neither they nor any of its partial and
domestic, were chosen because they made Sugetos 18 years that these were possessed of those jobs,
never allowing others were appointed by the unbridled ambition of government that ruled them,
and also for avoid injustice and violence estorsiones, titled egecutaban judges in all class
of people, valid from unlimited despotism which had acquired, which
protected all sorts of vices, which vitiated their dependents and
servants.

Rodriguez this transcended by the idea, prevented some changes and differences to the election day, however
prevailed in favor of justice, and left elected those proposed by the Mayor, who loathed cruelly
Rodriguez, the dissimilarity customs and birth and not being able to hide the poison that
locked their hearts, to see they had taken the command, as so many years had usurped, took
their mask to be seen to clearly senses against him. D. Jacinto was to die for with vomiting that
caused the anger of the snub, and D. John left the village for his wit haste, leaving at home
warned that none of their customers come out to the runs bulls, who regularly held to mark
the new Mayors to the public, or that he These lend them anything they desired used for soft drinks.
In this day began to discover the league that he had formed with them the priest of the parish
church. It happened then that was the custom from time immemorial, which finished the election, and
confirmed by the mayor in the chapter house, spent all of the major church council to hear
the Mass of Thanksgiving, lobbyists went to the pia demonstration, but being as to the church
doors, went to meet the sacristan to say that there was no mass, because none had given alms.

Things
were in this critical state, when the news of the death of Tomas
Catari; and believing the mayor of Paria, D. Manuel Winery, which
removed this seditious disturber of the public tranquility, it would
be easy sugetar the province, collecting taxes and real distribution,
determined to go into it with weapons and people.

Asked for this to help you with Urrutia soldiers, who denied, preventing consequences could not
be good: but evil Bodega recommended, gathered 50 men, paid at his expense, and set off to
the people of Challapata but where he and his companions, paid with his life Thin determination.

With this, the Indians were persuaded Challapata, Condo, poop and other towns immediate, the mayor
of Oruro to the Paria had assisted with weapons and people to punish,
from that day threatened the town and the mayor, protesting desolate,
and kill them all its inhabitants.

Agregóse to this, a Franciscan monk named Fray Bernardino Gallegos at that time was as chaplain
on the plantations of D. Juan de Dios Rodriguez, overlapping his malicious plan, said he had heard that
the Indians were ready to Challapata Oruro to invade, and that the main reason that impelled them
was to know that daily egercicio therefore considered appropriate to be suspended, for without more
care than this, sosegarian are the spirits of those rebels because of his resentment only nacia
that provision. The mayor, and was not given assent to the notices that religious, or because
they penetrate the interior, did not alter his measures, that were born smoothly continuous and
care, because, resentful of this, did not stop in front dire news spread that moments threatened
by the insult offered by the surrounding Indians. In this conflict be doubted that the means
should be chosen: there were no weapons or ammunition; hacíanse public councils and secrets,
nothing is resolved for lack of money in the box of their own, or to put it more property, no such
case, because many years ago had taken possession of their fund D. Jacinto Rodriguez. Nor could
go to the royal treasury, because he resisted the officers, optional claiming not to be drawn
amount, without order expresses the superiority; and last resort, it was thought that the neighbors
contribute with a donation, nor took effect, the extreme poverty in which they were. In these
troubles manifested the zeal of D. Treasurer Salvador Parrilla, giving 2,000 pesos in cash for
their own interests, to that the militia were quartered, and ammunition were prevented in the meantime
was given party to the hearing, to deliberate what they had fit. With this amount was begun preparations,
they stood at 300 salary men were named captains and other officers, to the service: D. Manuel
Serrano, formed a company of the most infamous mob of people, and appointed his lieutenant Don
Nicolas de Herrera, brooding genius, that was after one of the most outstanding in this tragic
scene.

And the troops quartered, many dissensions arose due to the low subordination of soldiers, no
official law on the supply of the Prest said, and other reasons, that originated, but by the
disposition of the spirits, that the grounds grievances.

Day 9, at ten o'clock at night, some soldiers left the barracks of the company Serrano crying
out for relief to others, and asked the cause, said aloud Sebastian Payer: - "Friends, countrymen
and peers, be certain that you try the most treacherous betrayal against us by the escutcheons:
comunicárseme this news just for my daughter in any Sometimes we
can best provide clear evidence of our love of country, but in this:
do not deem in all our lives, sacrifiquémoslas happy to defend freedom,
converting all humility and performance, we have had with the Spanish
Europeans, anger and wrath, and end up once with this damn race.

"They immediately spread throughout the town this reasoning, and motion in militia companies that
were not neglecting D. Nicolas Herrera stoke the fire, telling everywhere with more vivid colors,
his malicious intent might suggest, the conspiracy of the Europeans.

Paying Sebastian servant had been many years in the mines of both Rodriguez, and in that Today went
to them in the evenings with D. Jacinto, where this was coming down drunk, badly that commonly
suffered. Among other productions of drunkenness, came up with the nonsense that the mayor wanted
him hanged, together with his brothers, Don Manuel Herrera and others neighbors. The heat of chicha,
which had altered the payer, it did facilitate the murder that after egecutaron, treating it
with D. Nicolas de Herrera, often processed sugeto a thief and highwayman public. In that no
one was satisfied that many Europeans were wealthy, but he and some
of his wicked companions were deposited many bars and bags of silver
coin in the face of D. José Endeiza, whom he considered more of 50.000
pesos effective.

As this individual was so kind, went to his table many friends, too wealthy, and agreed that both
were provided with travel to Potosi, came together with all his wealth to live in the house
where he was staying. The flow dam so large was the main origin of this unfortunate event. D.
Nicolas Herrera, who wanted more than all egecutar came for plunder, published in all Paying
over the reasoning, and continuing its proceedings, entered the house of D. Casimiro Delgado,
who at the time was playing with D. Manuel Amezaga, Challacollo cure, and Fray Antonio Lazo,
the Order of San Agustin. They were all thrown to the novelty, and resolved to go to warn the militia
that threatened misfortune: determination, indeed, improper sugetos those, and has many overtones
of seditious, because without thinking of consequences went to the barracks, called Captain
D. Bartolomè Menacho and to others, and gave notice of what they knew, making prevention of
to beware. With this and the voice of treason on the part of Europeans that Herrera had spread
throughout the town, came flooding troops to the barracks, mothers, wives and sisters of those
who were quartered, about wearing weapons to defend himself and others with the most tender voices,
asked with tears dejasen the recess. To this he added the soldiers, incited by Payer, were persuaded
it was true the conspiracy: some claimed that the mayor had prevented a mine to blow them suddenly,
others shouted that they had no doubt, because he had Arrimadas stairs suddenly rob the yard
of his home. All was confusion, disorder and confusion without any basis, for the wickedness
of these and other tantalizing spices invented seditious to shake things down. In this line spent
the night in continuous shock, and said the day after 10, abandoned the barracks: one addressed to
his houses, and others gathered by Payer, presented to D. Jacinto Rodriguez, protesting that
as his Lieutenant Colonel debian communicate what is premeditated against them, they were ready
to obey blindly, thus giving a misleading diagnostic test of the subordination he had, who,
upon hearing the complaints, he told them not to return to the barracks, and remaining with some
confidence, secretly warned them rioted that night, and they said the manner in which it had
to practice.

Had left days before the town of Fray Bernardino Challapata Gallegos, the Order of St. Francisco,
under the pretext of liberating some soldiers who took D. Manuel de la Bodega, the who were
hiding in priest's house, but his real purpose was to convene the the Indians for that day. D.
In the same distributed Jacinto to its black, and some of its raised by the rooms and people
immediately, for with the help of these, bending forces and make his attempt, mounted his horse,
went to the Cerro de las Minas, where together with all Indians, mulattos and mestizos, who
worked in them and gave them orders that precisely go down by the Cerro de Conchopata to the
town after nightfall. Everything egecutó as was prevented, starting with the noise of the peons mining
in that place, at the appointed time. To better ensure the premeditated action, walking the
streets and squares, an officer of the Menacho company called D. José Asurdui, publishing was
certain magistrate's betrayal and Europeans, so brazenly, that compelled
one to rebuke, saying: "Only a man of little understanding could utter
this nonsense, you are persuaded that the sheriff accompanied only
by 30 to 40 Europeans, are considered able to resist and kill more
5,000 men who have the villa, this was the same as an ant trying to
cope a lion.

"But the principles were different from that riot, to no avail these solid reason to restrain,
rather it increased the corridors on street corners and public square, growing care for having
found a piece of letter of Fray Bernardino Gallego, in which he warned his brother, Brother
Feliciano, which are bound the night of 10 the town would be invaded by the Indians Challapata,
but that did not have care, that the end life was to remove the mayor and officers. These Indians
did not appear that night, and learn the truth, many days after it was learned they did not
think to come by then, and scheme had only been to increase the fear and confusion.

At 4 pm he ordered the mayor to play call for the militia came together, in indeed obeyed, still
very few people were needed, but not with the fact going into the barracks, and if they stay
divided into pieces by the corners of the square talking to each of the alleged treason, and what
they had to practice, and not neglecting Paying their commission, recalled the events of Jose Gabriel
Tupac-Amaru, supporting behavior against the Sovereign, the humiliations suffered from bad government
ministers, the unbearable breasts, which by reason of the war with the British, imposed on
the people, and other reasons effective to drive the spirits at last that had been proposed. The
mayor, tried to reduce them, and gently, and with threats, but nothing could, and could only achieve
this we offer, would remain in the square, waiting for the Indians who threatened to invade the
town that night stay and no means to employ, was invited to sleep with them, and when is verified
the conspiracy of the Europeans, the first sacrifice his life rather than allow none of the
soldiers perished. But as missing and the right, and begin to discover your evil intention,
far from producing the good effects that are promised in this submissive offer only served to
act as tyrants more. Rogábales humbly, and tried to dissuade alleged complaints with the Europeans,
he said to them that everything was false and fabricated by malice
of those who persuaded them otherwise, but more angry with these means
of gently, began to manage their slings, rehearsing the way she had
to use them.
