 

Jaime's grandmothers had preserved from generation to generation a large uncut diamond, memory of
the heroic captain for the generous hosting of Febrer. Gemstone contained in documents of the family,
but the grandfather, Horace had not reached to know. Disappeared in the course of the centuries,
as so much wealth wiped out by the plight of a ostentatious home.

Febrer preparing the refreshments for the Navy, on behalf of Mallorca, but largely funded part
by them. This "cool" so that the Emperor appreciating the wealth of fruit the island, composed
of a hundred cows, two hundred sheep, hundreds of pairs of hens and turkeys, the quartet of
oil and flour, paneled wine, Cuarterolo cheese, capers and olives, twenty barrels of water myrtle and
four pounds of white wax. In addition, Febrer resident in the island and were not of the Order
of Malta the squadron embarked on Mallorca two hundred knights, eager to conquer Algiers, a nest
of pirates. The three hundred galleys left the bay, waving streamers between the roar of cannon
and bombards, greeted by crowds agglomerate on the walls. I had never met the Emperor so impressive
fleet.

It was in October. The expert Doria getting bad gesture. For him there were others in the Mediterranean
safe harbors that "June, July, August ... and Mahon. " The Emperor had been delayed too in the Tyrol
and Italy. Pope Paul III, to go to meet him in Luca, had prophesied misfortune for the lateness
of the season. The expedition landed on the beach Hamma. Febrer the commander, with his Knights
of Malta, going to lead, holding incessant clashes with the Turks. The army seized the heights
surrounding Algiers and started the site. Now were fulfilled the predictions of Doria. What
happened was a horrible storm, with all the violence of the African winter. The troops, without
shelter, soaked to bones during the night by torrential rain, they felt numb. A furious wind
men forced to remain lying on the ground. At dawn, the Turks, taking advantage this situation,
fell on the army by surprise, almost disbanded.

But the commander was there Priam, demon of war, insensitive to water and fire hard, malicious
and contemptuous of fatigue, which contained the enemy thrust a handful of his knights. Spanish
and German were rebuilt, and the Turks retreated, pursued by the besiegers, until the very
walls of Algiers. Don Priam Febrer, wounded in the face and leg, crawled to the door of the
city, driving his knife as it evidence of their progress.