 God save us from this great temptation to avoid the note of fools and soon!
God forbid women honored this great temptation to avoid the note lack of charm and sexy!

Out of these excellent and sublime of our being, there is hardly another human quality measure
that does not have the money. Science and poetry Speculative subtract high only to that measure.
Or speculative science, poetry or higher, are usually available to the masses. The wise and famous
poet can seldom comfort of being poor, they are. Lofty thoughts, and finesse and delicacy of
style, are items that few know estimate. The glory is almost always late for this race of men.
Few similar a loss to understand his worth. So will his fame spreads and to accrue by authority, contested
and often contradicted, and so slowly and deliberately, the sage and The poet often die without
the benefit of that respect and even worship taxed later to his memory.

The same wise, and especially the poet, critic excellent as it is,
may console themselves with awareness and security of your worth,
other men unknown or denied.

Do not know fixed point if the trial that are about themselves is distorted by self-love.

A work of genius is very difficult to judge, and the good reputation
that must be acquired a few subjects understood that manage to impose
their opinion, sometimes after many years when not centuries.

The other men undergo this review out of laziness, or because having already dead author of
the work, they care little to be celebrated and praised. The idea that the reputation of that author
is in honor of the nation or humanity as a whole contributes to that contained by certain
selfishness, are few men to throw to destroy it. Moreover, the glory of the great writers
often posthumously and extremely vain. Of every thousand people mentioning, for example, Homer
as the first epic poet, ten at best, in civilized countries, I have read, and of these ten,
nine were bored or asleep reading to him: one was useful perhaps of those beauties and excellences.

Poetry,
then, in its highest sense and virtue in its highest sense, has only reward in itself, in creating
the ideal, the determination and debugging of beauty, which is low, mixed with foreign elements
and fleeting in the world and whom the poet away and subtracted from
the ugly, and gives immortal life, in order to enjoy her the few souls
who by his own beauty are able to understand.

Understood, however, that unless the sublime arch-mentioned exceptions, nothing is more false
in a sense that this honor and profit that do not fit in a bag. By contrast, when the public
does not honor it if not rich, and always enriched when honor.

The more or less of enrichment depends on the circumstances that have nothing to do with honor.
In countries rich and prosperous, good poet, the condition of his genius, is popular and famous,
is also rich. And beyond the respect due to him, Adam Smith was wrong to assume the comedians,
singers and dancers, they earned a lot of money in compensation of decorum they lost in their
office, which, if more honest, more people would be exercised by business, and this competition
would lower the price. The above artists are much better regarded in the day time of Adam Smith,
not so many good, or sell cheap services. They sell expensive, because there are few that are
suitable for them, and because way to pay is given to the shortage persists, load sharing among many
people.