 Henbane has some importance in the treatment of certain
transfers that have more mental and less erethism passibility in the effects of belladonna,
but moral and nervous phenomena are almost similar in form. We talk about hobbies furious,
from the melancholic, the lipemanía with silence and continuous apprehension when there is
constipation, agitation at times and photophobia.

Encephalitis in children in the exudation period, calls from the time henbane acuity of completion
and belladonna and is not indicated, when the eyes are prominent and turbulent and there is
no irritation from the first period is characteristic of zinc, aconite and belladonna even or jimson
furious delirium, or the continuing resolution of muscle forces that are noted on the digital.
Mercury is a powerful auxiliary henbane in these cases, and even
better in consecutive paralysis of the meninges.

Henbane is effective in the last period of puerperal fever with suppression of lochia, nervous
delirium, general pallor, slight convulsions, be alive. In general, the suppression of lochia and
its excess, require this medication, just as the suppression rules and clear blood metrorrhagia. In
the suppression of the lochia is a subdelirio accompanied by horrific visions, pallor and
inertia of the fiber that difference of belladonna. When there is excess flow also shows the inertia
of the fiber, general spasms, gradual weakening of the senses, increasing the flow to each convulsive
shock, both loquial as menstrual.

These various symptoms differentiate their action of ipecac and rye ergot.

Whooping cough, dry, and purely nervous, and a row of pneumonia, especially
if you have or increases at night, is more typical of Bethlehem, the
chamomile.

In these Pertussis cases and is often necessary to repeat the dose.

= Dose .=-- Henbane is administered at the dose and the way the aconite,
the aloes, belladonna.

Ignatia (SAN IGNACIO BEAN .-- IGNACIA).

§ I. - History.

Grains are used (St. Ignatius bean) of this plant family apocíneas, Juss .-- In the pentandria
monoginia, Linn .-- This drug is mentioned in the treaties materia medica in union with nux vomica,
strychnine, on account of, the active common them both. Murray has collected all the observations
relating to the first. Jaerg and Hahnemann the have experiments.

Physiological effects .-- § II.

We can say in general that the ignacia has properties very similar to those of Walnut vomica,
with the difference that the former has more instability phenomena
in nerve and less strongly affects the organs of circulation.

Hahnemann did not appear to has had full reason to say that this product is particularly suitable
for treat acute illnesses, if such are defined as febrile illnesses. It is true that generally
speaking, are not suitable for chronic diseases, that his specialty is spasmodic nervous affections,
or its exacerbation, and fevers dependent slow of a moral boost or nervous, but even in this case,
whatever you want efficiency, need the competition or drug help more fixed and lasting action.

The
relationship is ignacia as nux vomica, with gastric diseases nervosa, the condition that their
symptoms worsen in the morning rather than evening, and recognize because one regret, and moral
causes depressing, rather than anger and emotions sudden.

The ignacia sometimes produces joy and good humor, and other diseases sad , sentimental, and
with more frequency, fast alternative hilarity and tearfulness. The medicine and nux vomica have
pathogenetic effects in pain dislacerantes and cramping, aggravated by touch, motion, for the
outdoors and the application heat.

The ignacia work on the spinal system, while also altering why nerves ganglion and these viscera
and chest, digestive organs and the venous system; but losing its activity, the more it is separated
from the spinal nerves, and ceasing to therefore be similar to the nux vomica in its influence on the
venous system and gastric which it follows that their action is more nervous and less extensive.

This
action essentially Nerve ignacia expresses himself by a remarkable variation calorification unequally distributed,
variation and change to the provisions Este moral.

However, gastric symptoms and which expresses the extent of medical action nutrient to life,
are fixed and permanent. Not without interest to observe, with a teacher Vienna therapeutics that
these same conditions are specific to gastric ignacia, especially in persons of a lively and
fresh, as opposed to requiring the nux vomica.

Moral status in harmony with the changes produced by Ignatius in the healthy, temperament is nervous
and frail, and also that of the sensitive and deeply impressed by a love or even annoyed. Gastric ailments
resulting from these moral causes, which generally concentrate their
action in schools epigastric correspond directly to the action of
Ignacio on the same centers and make this drug is quite effective
in diseases caused by affliction and sorrows, and even play in gastric
and neuropathic conditions resulting from a thwarted love or unhappy.

This medicine is thus more typical of nervous temperaments and delicate constitutions and sensitive
to the blood or lymphatic temperaments, it is also the versatility convulsive nervous diseases
of children, especially if nutrition is impaired; , then, occupies a place among the ignacia chamomile
and ipecac.

Its action is more beneficial in children affected with the dentition,
and people hysterical or very sensitive and impressionable up the
excess.

§ III .-- therapeutic effects.

Conditions typical of Ignatius are, in general, or catarrhal intermittent: the chills and the heat
is unevenly distributed, thirst occurs more in the cold during the heat symptoms are observed and
even gastric mucosal vomiting, constipation, cold interior heat in the skin, anxiety agitation
which requires a change of position at every instant, sudden dizziness, pain in the viscera contusive,
weakness and depression. In fevers intermittent, sometimes the heat is great, but with the character
that makes him nervous Dry and varies the redness of the cheeks, the gastric symptoms, as well
as feeling of emptiness in the stomach that accompanies them, are more pronounced during the accesses.
In catarrhal fever, aches contusive are quickly replaced with lancinating
erratic and fast, the cough is dry, even when fluent coryza, and is
produced by a internal irritation, a tingling sensation in the trachea.

In people nervous always seen twitching and even convulsions in children.

Ignacia is administered after eyebright when the cough is presented for access and is continuous
throughout the day, that remains moist coryza, especially if symptoms of angina. It will chamomile
after the febrile diseases of childhood, when spasms have been reported, and symptoms of reaction
have lost their sharpness or that The excitement has given blood.

The ignacia is also referred to allay spasms anxious to remain at the beginning of a fever mucosa,
after aconite and chamomile.

The ignacia is preferable to the henbane and hemlock, where bluetongue
is less coughing at night that day: the first is more related to the
lining of the bronchial irritations with rattling mucous and hoarseness.

The lime sulfur and eyebright extends its action to the conjunctiva irritation in the period, which
soon passes, and one of his characters is always the hoarseness.

The ignacia is indicated in bilious colic with dysenteric stools or constipation, if there
is great nervous irritability. Its action is generally useful in gastric neuropathy and uterine
aroused the sympathies of the nervous system and even the circulation
ratio, febrile movements which dominates the nervousness.

Chronic constipation is erethism nervous or call in people willing to erratic and highly irritating
sensitive, yields Ignacio, often repeatedly.

The irregularity of the rules, but with excess menstrual flow in women hysterical or very nervous,
requires the use of ignacia: in these cases, changes were seen in
various sensitivity, such as nail hysterical, migraine, toothache,
various neuralgias, spasms, the ball almost always hysterical, anxiety,
palpitations, puffs of heat in uppers, partial and no uncomfortable
heat steadily.

The ignacia has a remarkable action on the mucous membranes at their point of union with the
skin, which is highly recommended: 1. No cracks in the lips, irritation, dryness, pain and pronounced
redness of the parts, the zinc is more in the cracks with pale; pulsatility, if color is blue,
the sea salt and phosphorus, if cracks are crusting mercury, abrasions and ulcer exudates, the
mezereum, more analogous to ignacia in this special case, as the
former differs from the general characters of their action on the
body.

2. No cracks in the anus, itching, throbbing, constricting pain: these are linear, shallow and
together, usually with exudation. Acid is indicated for cracks whip more irregular or more deep,
exuding that they bleed easily, and relate to some remote symptoms
of syphilis.

Lead, in its action on the year, is more analogous Ignatius, but differs in all the other symptoms.

3.
º prolapsus In the rectum with or without cracks: in the first case, the crack causes prolapse
of the rectum through the efforts of expulsion and contractions which excites; healed the rift,
stops the descent of the rectum and pains and contractions in the
second case, Ignacio is one of the best curative, especially in children.

4.

º In the year itch, and so on caused by roundworms, but in this case, Valerian is preferred
in children, even when seizures. The marum and sulfur may be necessary auxiliary to the ignacia.
The espigelia is also indicated in pruritus these species when they occur after a fever or
that occur during the course of a fever verminous, and have been sympathetically aroused anxieties
palpitations, nervous disorders generally.

5. º conjunctivitis in some children and adults, when the conjunctiva tumeface forming a bun
and investing outwards. Only in this circumstance and before hypertrophy the lid margin is when should
the ignacia, is the drug most useful in ophthalmia of newborns, when developing conjunctival
impeller.

The ignacia plays little skin conditions, but is useful as an accessory in the intertrigo, in erythema
of the members in sensitive or nervous persons, and particularly in a species burning itch that occupies
most of the skin and disappears after scratching. Conditions it is more advantageous and more
often useful this drug, its elective action the spinal nerves are neuro, neuralgia and spasms,
whose characters go to indicate.

The ignacia and ipecacuanha are very similar in body spasm with stiffness, stretching, spasmodic
jerking of the limbs, and movements in the muscles of the face, but
is more ignacia in particular, congestion shooting in the head, pale
alternative and redness of one cheek, and the irregularity in the
distribution of heat.

The action of this drug in the spinal cord seconded by which also owns about ganglionic nervous
system, makes it effective in spasms caused by indignation Fast concentrations in this system,
and the regret that occurs from the beginning a chronic. Chorea or St. Vitus dance, seizures and
epileptiform access isolated, especially if they depend on the work of digestion, and relieves the
supine the first, are treated with nerve ignacia in people or whose nutrition is impaired.
In these cases, every emotion of regret or disappointment or renewed spasms access seizure.
When Belladonna is preferable for the congestive symptoms of the brain, ignacia advantage can happen
in similar circumstances, for example, eclampsia with repeated convulsion of the muscles of the
face and spasms in the esophagus. Ipecac plays In the same affection with diarrhea, the jimson weed,
when the phenomena are more nervous brain that blood, rye ergot, if there is tremor or contraction
of various muscles, jump Tendon and shortness of breath.

The migraine that corresponds to ignacia depends on a spinal irritation, excepting that of People
them extremely irritable, and always accompanying spasms. Headaches and teeth, neuralgia of
the limbs and trunk, whether rheumatic or not, require ignacia when and how sudden bursts of
pain. Differ little from those of espigelia and phosphorus, without the tension and regular constipation
without the aggravation of pain by heat, without relief by changing position without some periodicity
in their appearance, without the influence of some causes, such as fear, noise, alcohol, coffee.
The treatment of rheumatoid arthritis the common claim in the subacute
period ignacia or apyretic.

This drug is probably effective in some mental dispositions, characterized by disgust for all, by
indifference, shock, general debility, and that depend on grief, mortifications and chronic
or repeated shocks.

It is important to note that symptoms ignacia are entities claiming the resentment and indignation,
as well as contraindications to joy and pleasure.

But do not insist on its therapeutic use, although many symptoms make it advisable in other
conditions, because the clinical observation is incomplete, and because it has not yet used enough.

=
Dose .=-- The pilot unfamiliar with this medicine may be used at the dose of one to four drops
of the tincture, or first dilution in water. But their frequent use and the need be elected
by the similarity of their symptoms tend to prefer a drop or a few cells the third, sixth or
twelfth attenuation in five or six tablespoons of pure water, given
at short intervals, every four or five minutes, in cases of spasmodic
affections or neuralgic.

IODIUM (IODINE).

§ I. - History.

Introduced this metalloid in the medical field almost in our days,
already enjoys great celebrity.

Recommended first, and with reason, in the goiter, soon it spread its indication to all infarctions
nodes and glands, also to be so after the many accidents Secondary syphilis is in order today
as a panacea for many therapeutic, filling himself a newspaper.

It is fair to agree on the truth of the utmost importance that iodine has conquered. Invaded We
are today a multitude of organic disorders in a triple way threaten future of all families,
secondary and tertiary syphilis, tuber and scrofula, three diathesis that profoundly affect the
economy and the organic cell, and that the iodine appears must modify more advantageously than any of
the medicines in the materia medica old who have resisted the routine, esclusive systems and modern
skepticism. No we admire because of its high clinical fortune. But the confusion and doubts
that have arisen in our time in the reports and the Academy [4] on the effects of iodine,
and indications, prove how great is the ease with which we have proceeded in the frequent
use of this medicine. Certainly you can ensure that if they were a severe test of the entire
medical field former, few drugs would no longer produce the same confusion in the appreciation of
its physiological and therapeutic effects.

In this way it would come to recognize that the law of such a principle is not negligible, and
that the work of Hahnemann and medical, school or his followers supporters of other methods
have been dedicated to Experience " formal, are of great importance.

Iodine compounds are known: barium iodide, iodide of calcium, iron, the protoyoduro potassium
or potash hidriodato, iodides of mercury. The hidriodato of potassium salt of iodine is the most
used and which relates to what we say about this simple body. Its action differs only by the
lower activity and milder effects and more graduates. The Other combinations of iodine and
iron, mercury, etc., are likely to call to spread abroad the therapeutic
action of this medicine, the practice has been enriched with some
new facts, but the EXPERIENCE needed in this case, and indications
of these iodine compounds can only be clearly established with physiological
experiments and clinics.

Physiological effects .-- § II.

The action of iodine on the nervous system is fleeting and inconsistent in principle, but the
modification induced on the node innervation and liquids, ie their Dyscrasic effects, alter the nervous
system of the life of relationship to the point of producing neuralgic symptoms that correspond
with sufficient accuracy to which expresses the diathesis scrofulous and syphilitic mercurial,
such are wandering pains in the joints, lacerations in them and even members at night, feeling of heaviness
and trembling in them, muscle tremors, staggering gait, great weakness, and in particular, cramps
fingers, pain in the arms osteócopos pains to disturb sleep, convulsive
movements and tremors of the arms and hands, numbness of the fingers
of these, pain, heaviness, paralytic weakness of the legs, cramps
in the feet at night.

The circulatory system undergoes a first alteration which is fully excitants characterized by
increased heat in the skin blood turgor communicating a burgeoning health aspect; hard, fast
heartbeat, ninety beats, headache and congestion into the gravatar head and the larynx, chest,
heart, stomach, intestines, tightness and coughing bloody sputum. This initial excitement
is replaced by increased secretions; by passive congestion or subacute; by local irritation of
the mucous membranes eyes, nose, larynx, of the genito-urinary, for a state gastric characterized
by heartburn, nausea, vomiting, difficult digestion, colic, development
gas, irregular bowel movements, for violent and momentary palpitation
of the heart .....

If you continue the use of iodine, soon more and
more altered digestion, blood becomes more serous, the skin takes
on a dirty, sticky sweat, weak pulse, the veins are filled with a
rich blood poorly crafted items, fat and other substances absorbed,
its walls weakened distend, the veins swell, the weakness increases
muscle tremors occur in the limbs, anxiety, easily frightened, painful
dreams.

Marasmus is notable, they disappear glands to adipose tissue and are absorbed; secretions increase
simultaneously, and become more copious mucous flow, sputum, diarrhea, leucorrhoea, etc.. The
nervous system takes great irritability, and occurs, Finally, a state erethism with diminution
or suppression of the secretions, continuous fever and more often sender, swelling and bloating
of the abdomen, constipation, impressionability fiber and sense organs, depression, anxiety, extremity
weakness .....

Hahnemann thus summarizes the symptoms that indicate iodine [5]: numbness in the morning, throbbing
in the head, itchy eyes, ringing in the ears, disecea, coated tongue, salivation, taste like
soap in the mouth, belching, acid burning, heartburn after ingestion of undigested food, ravenous hunger,
nausea, flatuosidades, constipation, urination in bed rules delayed,
chronic cough in the morning, difficulty breathing, swelling of the
exterior neck laxity of the arms in the morning in bed, numbness of
the fingers, twist bone, skin dryness, night sweats.

After these symptoms that Hahnemann refers to try this medicine, he could add the following table:
pain and irritation throat, fluent coryza, lacrimation, and dryness or irritation of the mucous
and sluggish flow mucous, acne pustules especially on the face and back, shake hands then extends
to the whole body.