 Amparo
came to open the door and saw him, my God!, Cowardice is most distressing possession of his
mind. In the eyes of those loyal eyes, the penitent was stiff, and confession was given as impossible
as a stab ... Olvidáronsele the words he had designed to begin. Augustine spoke of ordinary
things, she would answer turbadísima. It I had forgotten how to breathe. And what's stupidity
for your understanding! To answer several questions that Knight made him, had to think long.

His agitation was slowly dissipating. The symposium was discreet, perhaps too discreet and cold
to be loving. Knight was also embarrassed to find himself alone with his beloved. There was
dramatic passages of his life, made a witty and delicate criticism of the Bringas. Then turned
to speak from themselves. He was thrilled I was to make his desire vivo. He wanted to quiet
love, their eyes of the soul, more on the charms of living home, always busy and affectionate,
that the unequal concern of passion. Already had more forty autumns, and what man of great sense,
his greatest desire was to have a family and live legal life around, surrounding himself with
honesty, comfort, peace, enjoying the performance of duties in the company of people who loved
and honored him. God had in store the woman who suited him, and found it so perfect, that
if he had instructed the Heaven does not come better ... She, meanwhile, looked at him as
Providence made man. Without knowing why, since he saw a man considerole model, and if he had
a thousand reasons to be loved, bastaríale for this generous kindness with which dropped to a
poor orphan girl and humble ...

While such sosadas said, if not these, with equivalent words, Amparo, within yes, I reasoned
otherwise:

"My God, I do not know where to stop ... I let go, let me go, and
every time I'm more criminal silent as corn.

The later I will confess right under your forgiveness.

"

- Tell me about your childhood, your past life.

Upon hearing this, the bride went from doubt to fear.

Would Knight guessed something?

"Ah, I was very unhappy."

- But now you'll be happy. Tell me something.

She then recalled some of the words he had thought, and spontaneity sum which if yielded to irresistible
force, was left to say:

"Before going further ...».

- What?

- I say ... nothing ... Is that I remembered when my poor father died
...

- Is this your picture? - Knight asked getting up to watch him
closely.

Meanwhile, Amparo said: "First I behead. I'm dying, but callus. "

The evening progressed. Augustine was there two hours and not allowed to leave over rape love
to kiss the hand of his girlfriend. He was a man whom the roughness of a rough fight large domain were
critical about himself.

But even with the power he had, there were unnecessary occasionally some efforts to support the
role of person impeccably austere legal, perfect wheel, clear running in the triple mechanism
of the state, religion and Family. One owner who was angry with Mompous because it wanted to
put in sharing contributions, a little less than his due, the man
who, by no religious blend in the concert of his time, had given some
money to the Pope could not in any way going to hold good for her
loving ways that were not right.

"Everything in order, say, or not live or live with the principles."

XXIV

After three days of absence, excused under the guise of serious occupations
at home, Amparo was the de Bringas.

Upstairs, he feared that the steps are finished. How Rosalia receive it, knowing as their courtship?
Because the orphan did not love her sublime friend, and that respect he was better qualified if
we give the name of fear.

The Mr D. Francisco itself inspired him affection, and thinking about the two and what they
say, came at home. Without knowing why, he gave him ashamed to be there with her dress fixed recently,
his new boots, her veil again as well. I thought shame to miss their poverty.

Rosalie went to meet him in the hallway, laughing, and then hugged
her fuss affected affection.

Such vehemence, as excessive should be something suspicious, but
Amparo cut like a schoolgirl who surprised in the arms of a sergeant,
admitted them as good.

A vehement followed ironies in very bad taste.

"Go, woman, thank God you look around here. As you are so lofty, and do not remember of these poor
... Good lottery you have fallen! No, do not deserve you, but I recognize that you good ... Better
luck ...! Sit ... Augustine wants to live with us, and we have no objection to it ... On the
contrary, we are pleased.

I do not know if you can accommodate in this narrowness, because
as you get the idea of ??living in those palaces, this will seem like
a cabin.

"

Recovering, "said the girlfriend who was very grateful, but can not
leave her alone sister, continued to live at home, without going to
Rosalia, as always, help as I could.

"Go with Augustine, and how quiet it was! This man is all mystery. For you see, I do not would
trust a lot ... Yes, you can be here all day, eat with us, what little there. Then you go you
to your castle, and we will stay in our hut. Surely that bother you ... See what I doing now with you ...
Mom! But Augustine and you, what do not I? Sit ... I sew these sleeves ... Oh, no, what audacity!
Sorry. "

- Yes, yes, come ... Then there was always more ...

Bringas, who had just shaving in his room, left without wiping his glasses on the dining room rosy
face and highly polished.

"Amparo, how are you? I, well. Ah, bribonaza, what luck you had! ... You owe it to me. Good things
I told you cousin ... I've put parsley leaf, as you suggest. The truth, I have loved ... This
could be entitled The reward of virtue. Is what I say, the merit is always rewarded. "

Shortly after this, Bringas and his wife are secreted into the office.

"Augustine is going to have carriage. It has already commissioned Paris. "

- Ah !...-- exclaimed the lady, spongy, and it seemed to be sprawling in the soft car of your
friends.

- We need to treat her well.

Will pass in all theaters.

- Amparo - Pipaón said shortly after his protegee -; look, do not get tired at the sight point so often.
Tomorrow or go with me to the shops. Augustine has instructed me to you make multiple purchases,
and you see ... should you give your mind and choose what you like, since everything is for
you. Also I have to procure some frippery, it is indispensable we go to the dance palace ...
Come to my room, you'll see the peach-colored dress that His Majesty has commanded me.

This indispensable assistance of the dance brought to Thiers thoughtfully,
as though expenses were not many, its sales exceeded those of the
whole chapter of the superfluous, for three months.

But with bold headings rigor Bringas overthrew allocated to the same requirement vital, and the
family was ordered not to get their yantares for a month, rather
than the precise not to starve.

And when he could no longer are decorated with the coat of six years, had to undertake one,
using a tailor who owed him favors and that it made for the cost of cloth. Orders were run for
the kids throw up in February the shoes they had, and was abolished in light of the reception,
the tip of the serene and other things. Rosalia, always troubled by the growing shortage,
the future looked black, darkened even further with the announcements of revolution were in
every mouth. One thing consoled him. His daughter had already piano teacher, and receive that part
of education as necessary in a young man of good family. And the girl was so applied that all
the holy week and part of the night was easy fingering their studies; novelty found Amparo
the house that day.

The annoying music and the mind-numbing conversation led Mr. de Torres spirit with a big bore.
Knight was at nightfall, and after a while pleasant gathering took her to his house. This time
Rosalie him and no custom tubes, cotton balls, buttons or sticks or tape, and sent her away,
like Bringas with honeyed palabrillas.

Taking in the solitude of his home, Amparo had that night a happy thought. He did not know as
it had happened right thing, and felt that the Holy Spirit had taken work to inspire. The happy
idea was to call for help from religion. Confessing his sin before God, He would not give enough
value to declare to a man? Clear yes. She had never downloaded his consciousness of that weight as ordered
by Jesus Christ.

His devotion was warm and routine. Do not go to church but to hear Mass, and although more than
one Once he came to be approaching the tribunal of penance, was very afraid to do so. His sin
was huge and would not fit through the agujerillos of a confessional grille, large for the
human voice, guys, in their view, for the passage of certain crimes.

"Nothing, nothing - a lot with this comforting thought, full of joy - and one day either, then I prepare
well, I confess to God, and then ... surely I will have a very large value. "

What a successful project! ... Rely on religion, which is nothing if not the bread of the afflicted,
the sinners, those who are hungry for peace! And it's very silly had not undergone the procedure
you lie so simple, so natural ...! Would, itself, determined and courageous, the divine tribunal.
If it was strength of mind only with the intent, what when the attempt would continue achieving it? The
fear was always an act so grave, vanished as, and if the priest, seeing deeply repentant, he forgave,
he had soul force enough to be presented to the man she loved and say, "I made a huge failure,
but I'm sorry. God has forgiven me. If you'll excuse me, fine. If not, goodbye ... each at home.
"

All he saw, all supported its Christian idea, heaven and earth, and even objects more rebellious to
the embodiment animated beings were exchanged for proud and happy.

The portrait of her father congratulated her with honest eyes, saying: "But, silly, if you I've
been speaking so long, and you not wanting to understand ...!».

The night was spent joyful. Oh advantages of a good purpose! In diseases of consciousness the
desire of medicine is half the cure. He thought a lot during the night about what it would
the cure, how would the face and voice.

However great was their shame before God, easier it would shed its
sin in all confessionals in Christendom in the ears your trusted lover.

But I was sure that once taken that step, everything else is easier greatly.

Waited three days and the fourth, getting up early, went to the Good Bliss. Entered shaking.
Figurábase that in there were already news of what was going to tell and someone had to say: "We
are already aware, girl." But the quiet solemnity of the church will calm returned and saw evidence
of the act judiciously to be undertaken. And by God long duration. The pious knees waiting
for a convenient distance, and were of those who go every day to
see rogue and stun the confessors, were impatient the delay, denying
the heaviness of that lady, she must be a well of guilt.

When he retired from the confessional was a great relief and previously unknown spiritual forces.
How they had slipped their faint words huequecillos by the fence,
neither it knew.

It was enchantment, or speaking in Christian, was a miracle.

Asombrábase her that her lips had said what they said, and even after
making the confession, it seemed that had been crossed in the grating
expressions that were quite thin, very remorseful to enter.

The priest one to whom the sinner has not seen, was very kind, Tell them that terrible things, followed
by other fresh and comforting. Oh, penance, bitter balsamic pain cure! It was like a suicide
when the sinner was torn chest and taught his conscience order to see everything that was in
it. Displaying the corrupt, it also showed healthy.

The priest had promised to forgive, but delaying the time the penitent absolution had revealed his
guilt to the man who wanted to take her to wife. I thought it as reasonable under as if it
were spoken by God himself, and promised with his whole soul obey blindly.

Before leaving the church an unpleasant vision disturbed the peace of mind. Back in the end of
the ship saw a woman dressed in black, sitting on a bench, which did not detract eyes. Was Doña
Marcelina Polo.

The penitent was covering her face with her mantilla veil wishing not to be known, but neither of
those ... The other would not let her rest even for a point martyrdom
of their looks.

In short, Amparo, who expected to hear two masses, left after to
hear one.

Upon returning home measured the forces that had been born and was
amazed at how big they were.

"Now I say it - I thought - and now
another. No Words fail me, as I do not lack courage. So certain is
that talk, as now is the day ... Let's see, begins: "Today I confessed
!...» From this to the rest is plain the road. I'll say, 'I had a
great sin. " 'What is it? "What I can I know? ". 'Not only can you
but you should know, because before you know it, I do not think getting
married. " Word after word, going out, going out the thing as it came
in the confessional. If after knowing my regret, he insists, will
make him go and live status to a foreign country to avoid complications.
"

Segura and courageous, he ardently desired that Knight came early
to raise the issue since the entry. That day could not miss. Had concluded
that she did not come out on Tuesdays Caballero and Friday and the
visit on these days to speak more freely than in the Bringas house.
It was Friday.

Shelter that day was very cheerful.

"I know - he
said - that you visit. Donna has told me Tia. Girl, you're in luck.
"

Amparo eluded conversation as dangerous, and not wanting to give
his candid explanation yet sister invited him to leave, at once. No
request was made for each other. His painter expected to model the
figure of a pestle callipygian helping to bury the victims of 2 May.
Hastily swallowing his brief lunch, went out.

Shortly after the doorbell
rang. Would he? It was still early ... Jesus a thousand times, the
postman! ... In the hands of one man received a letter Amparo, and
watch and tremble from head to toe all was one. Gazed without daring
to open it. He knew the superscription hated. For Celedonia that days
before was to ask for alms, he knew his enemy was in the field, but
NO PECH the wretch who had the craving to write. "It would open the
letter, or throw in fire without reading it? And at what times Satan
came to disturb his mind when he had put in peace with God, when he
strengthened his conscience!

"But I will read it - he said -, I'll
read it, because what he says will increase my holy horror, and give
me strength even greater. Today God can not send me a new sentence,
but the former relief. "

XXV

The letter was written in pencil, and
read:

"The chestnuts, December 19, 1867