 The first was executed Gotthard
Arthus was whose version inserted 7.ma De Bry in part. of its large collection of voyages: and so
imperfect Hulsio seemed to Levin when confronted with the original, it was decided to undertake
another translation, which appeared in Nuremberg in 1599, adding the portrait of author, with
several sheets of fruits and animals of Paraguay, and two maps, one of America the north and
the other from the south, although incorrect, are not without some merit for the time they
occurred.

Of these versions is worth D. Gabriel Cardenas to the epitome he published
in 1731, and Barcia reproduced in the third volume of his early history
of the West Indies.

Although the notes and index that accompanied it, did not illustrate it, and only may get to
see the text, which would have done if we had found.

But of all the works dealing with the conquest of the Rio de la Plata, is that of Schmidel the rarest,
most can be taken by irreperible.

To get any benefit from our reprints, we have emended some words whose mistake was clear: as, for example,
by Charrúas Zechurvas; Carendi by Querandís; Aigais by Agac; Salvascho by Salazar, Luchs by
Lujan, Richkel for Riquelme; Daber by Tabaré; Gratia Amiego by Vanessa Garcia; palmela for halibut,
thistles and evening, for thistles and darts, etc..: - and we multiplied these corrections if
we had stopped the fear of tangling over the text of a writer whose
diary is the first monument of our history, and the only source they
should drink proposing to continue the first steps of the Europeans
in these remote regions.

Schmidel judgments sometimes resent the spirit that prevailed then in the conquerors all divided
into factions and biases, and failure to pronounce on the conduct of Governor Cabeza de Vaca, illustrious
name in the annals of conquest, disagree with the facts to us by other contemporary historians.
But regardless of these moles, prudent that every reader can discern, deserve credit data has been
collected, and only the mention that makes so many places, tribes,
customs and events, has been preserved of forgetting, which has swallowed
up many other memories.

Whether you were endowed with an imagination more temperate or more
mature trial, is that distrust what others said, is ciñeae refer to
what he himself observed, it is true that he be considered the most
circumspect writer of his time.

German language, that he used to write your notes, and Latin in which they were reproduced,
were the most apropos to generalize, so for nearly two centuries were ignored. Also contributed
to this neglect the little case that made the Spanish of their establishments in countries
devoid of mine: the exploitation was long the object exclusive of the administration of its colonies,
and so general was the prestige egercian in the public these rich
products, perverted to the trial of historians, whose admiration focused
on the conquerors of Peru and Mexico.

However, neither were lower risk, and no less heroic sacrifices of those who invaded the other
parts of America, and to ponder what it cost the occupation of Paraguay,
just Schmidel follow in quick but brilliant look that gives over twenty
years he spent in the New World, surrounded by people of a wild and
savage nature.

Overworked, sought and obtained permission to return to his homeland, and escorted by twenty
Indians decay, or Guarani, only fruit of his long pilgrimage in America, crossed the Guaira,
to arrive soon to San Vicente, where he hoped to find a ship to Europe. This way, no more footprints
preserved, Cabeza de Vaca, about being impraticable by the rough terrain, was guarded by swarms
of savages that are nested in their lengthy and impenetrable forests. Entire villages came out
to dispute the passage, and to all put up a brave resistance, seconded by his faithful companions,
in spite of being Indian defended a European.

Finally reached the end of his journey sighed, and sat in Portuguese ship that brought him
to Lisbon.

Commissioned by the Governor Martinez de Irala to put in the hands of the king a detailed part
major occurrences of his administration, he went to Seville, where he was that time the Emperor
Charles V, and the audience gave him that sovereign, he said verbally
more news to those which contained the report of Irala.

This document is very important for the history of our provinces, if not lost in the hands
of the King, should be in Sevilla or Simancas, in the jumble of papers
piled on file.

Freed Schmidel all its commitments, he sailed for Antwerp, where it
was restored the bosom of his family after twenty years of absence.

PEDRO DE ANGELIS.

Buenos Aires, September 16, 1836.

Voyage to RIO DE LA PLATA.

CHAPTER I.

Of navigation of Antwerp to Spain.

The year 1534, I left Antwerp sailed for Spain, arrived at Cadiz in 14 days, sailing 480 miles,
and saw a whale off the coast of 35 steps, which filled 30 barrels oil. There was in the port 14
large vessels prevented to go to Rio de la Plata, Spanish 2.500 and 150 German, Flemish and
Saxon, with its Captain General, D. Pedro de Mendoza, and 72 horses é mares. One of these ships
was Noarto and James Belzar Sebastian, that Henry was Peyne, the factor, with goods to the Rio
de la Plata, in which I embarked with about 80 Germans and Flemish, well armed. The day we left the
port of San Bartolomé, 1534, with the army, and arrived at San Lucar, which is 20 miles from Seville,
where we stopped by the stormy the sea.

CHAPTER II.

Of navigation from Spain to the Canaries.

A first of September, quiet time, we left San Lucar, and reached three islands far between, called
Tenerife, Gomera and Palma, are far from San Lucar 200 leagues [1]; abundant sugar, divided
the army there. Inhabit these islands with their Spanish wives and children, and are the domain
of the King.

Spent four weeks with three ships in the Palma providing us with victuals, until orders came
from D. Pedro de Mendoza to continue journey. Our ship was a relative of D. Peter, called D. Jorge
Mendoza, who had fallen in love the daughter of a neighbor of the Palm: the last day for having
weighed anchor, went ashore D. Jorge with twelve companions, about twelve o'clock at night, and stole,
bringing to the ship with a maid, her dresses, jewels and money and
secretly brought it into our ship, without the captain Enrique Peyne
know anything.

Only the guards warned him that it had seen.

We started to sail in the morning, and at two or three leagues of journey, time went so hard we went
back to the harbor and cast anchor. Enrique Peyne was in the boat ashore, and wanting take it,
he saw 30 men armed with guns and swords, they wanted to arrest him, and knowing his crew urged him
to not come out to the ground.

He tried to go in hurry, but less than he wanted, because navichuelos
followed him into the ground and threatened.

At last they got rid of another ship closer to land.

Displaying the Canaries could not catch him, they play to challenge, and trageron two shots, which
fired four times against the nearest ship. The first broke up a pot of water, arrobas four or
five, the second broke the last tree on the ship and the third was a large hole in the side, killing
a man, and even missed the fourth, was very badly treated the ship.

Was anchored in the harbor another captain who was to Mexico, and he ground with 150 men: which,
having learned the robbery of the wife, sought peace between us and the city that were given D. Jorge
de Mendoza, the daughter and the maid, and having entered the master Peyne and the governor
of the island in our ship to the agreement egecutar, D. Jorge said, that this was his wife, and her
that her husband and to the point were married with great pain and sadness the girl's father.

CHAPTER III.

Of navigation from palm to Green Island or Hesperides, which also
call for Cape Verde.

Captain Don left Jorge on the ground with his wife, and repaired the ship as he could, sail to
the island of Santiago, sugeta the King of Portugal, who obey blacks, and far from the Palma 200 leagues.
There were five days, and provide new our ship of bread, meat, water and other food, and necessities
to the sailors.

CHAPTER IV.

Of navigation from Green Island to Brazil.

They returned to join the 14 ships of any navy, and began to sail,
and after two months came to an uninhabited island six miles wide
and long, distant 500 miles from Santiago, [2] they only had birds,
but so many, that we killed sticks: we were in it three days.

There is in this sea flying fish, whales and others that are called
Schunbhut, [3] by a large circle that is about the head with that
much damage to fish with whom Fight: is big fish, a lot of strength,
and easily irritated.

There is also this sea swordfish, which have in the way to muzzle a bone knife, saw fish, which have manner
of a saw and several other major genres.

CHAPTER V.

Del Rio called Janero.

We arrived at a certain island named after Rio Janero, where the French settled in the year of 1555
(Then and now, the King of Portugal). Far from the first 200 miles: call to his Indian Sliding.
Here were 14 days, and then our General, D. Pedro de Mendoza, being
continuously sick, shriveled and weak nerves, appointed by his lieutenant
to John Osorio, [4] his brother.

But shortly after accepting the position, was accused of rebellion
against Mendoza by which, ordered four captains, who were: Juan de
Oyola, Juan Salazar, Jorge Lujan and Lazaro Salazar, stab and kill
him to save him at the plaza, so that all might see him dead a traitor,
and published side with death, that no one gets excited because of
Osorio, because the same thing would happen to him.

In which it was conducted without good cause, because Osorio was
good, honest, strong soldier, informal, liberal and very beloved by
his peers.

CHAPTER VI.

Del Rio de la Plata or Paraná, the port of San Gabriel and Charrúas.

From here we set out to find the Rio de la Plata [5], and we reached another river, sweet,
called Paraná-wolf: far east of the mouth that falls into the sea, and is 42 miles wide. From
the Rio Janero to him there are 215 leagues.

Here we arrive at the port of San Gabriel, the 14 ships anchored in the Parana River, and
because they were distant shot bullet sent the General D. Pedro de Mendoza, saliésemos that soldiers
and other people on shore, in boats prevented this effect. So we happily to the Rio de la Plata
in 1535, and found there an Indian village of which 2.000 had called
Charrúas, which have no more food than hunting and fishing, and walk
all naked.

The women bring only thin cotton cloth from the waist to the knees.

All fled when they saw us, with their wives and children, and we
were to embark sent Mendoza to move to the other side of the river,
there had not more than eight miles wide.

CHAPTER VII.

In the city of Buenos Aires and Indians Querandíes.

On this site we did a city, we call Buenos Aires, [6] as healthy there were those who ran. We
find in this land of nearly 3,000 other Indian people called Querandíes, with their wives and children
who walk as Charrúas: they brought us meat and fish. These Querandíes no fixed abode; roam the
earth as Gypsies. When you walk in summer (usually more than 30 leagues), but are water, or the
root of thistles, but food quenches thirst, kill the deer or the wild animal they encounter,
and drink the blood, and it did, perhaps die of thirst. Fourteen days brought real fish and meat,
and because they missed one Mendoza sent to Ruiz Galan, judge, and two other soldiers to them
(who were four leagues). But the Indians were mistreated and returned to the camp with three
wounded.

Mendoza seeing this, and that Galan was maintained with people, sent
his brother, D. Diego Mendoza, with 300 soldiers and 30 good horses
(among whom was I) command, that taking the people of the Indians,
kindle or kill them all.

But when we already had 4.000 Indians from their friends and family, life.

CHAPTER VIII.

In the battle with the Indians Querandíes.

Wanting to run them down, we resisted, fighting so fiercely that killed
Don Diego de Mendoza, 6 knights, and to about 20 soldiers on foot
and horseback. Indians nearly 1,000 died. They fought hard and courageously
with their bows and arrows, gender lancilla, half way to lance with
sharp flint, and three points as trisulco. They have balls of stone,
tied to a long string, like our artillery [7]: échanlas at the feet
of the horses (or of the deer when hunting), until they fell, and
with these balls they killed our captain and the gentlemen referred
to, and to the footmen, with their darts, which I saw. But, despite
his resistance, and we beat his people, taken alive were unsuccessful
but none, not even women and children, because once it's had taken
to another place. In the village we found the skins of otters, a lot
of fish, flour and butter fish. Detuvímonos three days into it, and
returned to camp, leaving behind a hundred men, which the interim
fish with nets to supply the Indian people, because those waters are
wonderfully abundant fish. Distributed food, to every one, three ounces
flour, and every three days, a fish, and if I wanted more, had to
go fishing four leagues there: this fishery lasted two months.

CHAPTER
IX.

Of the population of Buenos Aires, and hunger that is suffering.

Returned
to our camp was divided people to the work of the city and the war,
applying each to craft appropriate. Began to build the city and up
to around a ground near three feet wide, and a spear high, but what
was done today fell morning, and within it a strong house for the
governor. All were suffering so much misery many were dying of hunger,
nor were enough to remedy the horses. Increased this anxiety have
already missed the cats, mice, snakes and other little creatures that
they used to tune it unclean, and ate up the shoe and other leather