 He pulled his face towards the place where he must be the head of the lady and
said very softly:

- Joaquina Joaquina.

He did not wake.

- Joaquina Joaquina - repeated.

Nor did any movement. Then gently shook his shoulder, calling it again.

The

lady screamed and woke up terrified.

- Jesus! Who is it? Who goes?

- Do not worry, me - he said weakly the estate.

- Who?

Who? - Replied the lady, with signs of terror in his voice, leaning against the wall.

- I, am Álvaro ... Mira - said in a trembling voice, - I know you've come to make friends ... You
did well ... Forget it all, start a new life ...

The lady did not respond. Tucked against the wall, heard his breathing still longing for shock.

-
I made superhuman efforts to forget - continued with the same voice trembling off by emotion
- but they were useless ... You're stuck with iron and fire in my chest ... You have been my first,
my only love in this world ... I have done much damage, a lot! but even were to make me a
thousand times more, will not be erased from my soul, that heady moments that I owe you ... I love
you, yes, I love, I adore you!

... Although call me a coward, unworthy, I will repeat to face the
world ... If you knew how I suffered!

It was not my dignity, my pride destroyed what made me suffer ... My heart is what has been
... What a disappointment! What a sadness so deep!

It seemed as if a cold hand gently gather me the guts ... But it's all over ... Is not that already
happened?

... We begin to love again, like that you later in my arms for the
first time in a street tree in the gardens Aranjuez ...

The same
silence from Joaquin.

- Answer me ... Have I scared, sweetheart?

Forgive me ... Why do not you come after that was the cure? ... You thought I was going to throw
you?

... No, my precious ... no ... I love you, I adore ...

At the same time, extending his hands, ran with his wife, grabbed her and took her lips with
enthusiasm. The lady promptly withdrew.

D. Alvaro was overwhelmed.

- Why did you withdraw your hand? ... Do not you tend to me mine,
and I'm offended?

... Have not you been be reconciled with me?

...

- Yes, yes, Álvaro - "she murmured .-- A so I came ... You scared me ...

- Forgive, Joaquina ... If you knew what happiness causes me hear your voice! I just never now,
And ever! hear her again. Will you be my wife? "- He added, lowering his voice, leaning to
bring the mouth to the face of the lady .-- Leave me a site next to you, beautiful ... Let
me be a happy night ...

- No, Álvaro, not now - gossip again tomorrow .-- unfaithful wife
... Let me, I am very tired ... Let me see you tomorrow ...

- Do
not bother.

I encircle you can and sleep as quiet ...

- No, now can not be ... Morning.

- Why not?

Will not you be my girl?

Do not want to be happy again, as in those early months of our marriage?

- Yes, I want ... But now I am very nervous ... I want to stay alone ... Tomorrow is another
day, and I promise to be yours ... Here's my hand ... Go to sleep, Álvaro ... Until tomorrow.

Montesinos
sought in the darkness that pretty little hand, she knew so well, and heels pressed against his
lips, devoured it with kisses.

Joaquina abandoned in his possession, After waiting for leave.

Soltola, in effect, but it was to throw her arms neck and pressed against his chest, crazy,
lost love, crushing her lips with kisses brutal, frantic. The lady struggled fiercely to free
herself, and she did, with staggered her husband a shove.

- I told you I would not, want not! - Angry voice shouted .-- If you ever touch me I'm naked
as I leave these streets ... Go! Go!

D. Alvaro became glued to the ground by the shock. Were not his words that left him cold, horror,
was that voice sharp as a knife blade, reaching to depths chest.

- Go! Go away - she repeated further raising the cry.

At that time no one thought crossed, by the brain of primogeniture:
all faculties were wiped out, broken by the shock and horror of the
coup.

No one felt more alive longing impression, as if he had fallen from somewhere very high and was
still air. The world disappeared in the darkness, nothing existed in the darkness enveloped
him, even his thoughts. There remained a strident voice, fatal and a great pain, eternal pain.

- Go! Go!

Bumping into furniture, jumping as if it escapes a disaster, left
that stay.

Found on the stairs clutching tightly to the handrails to avoid falling. There stopped and tried
to coordinate their ideas. Why running? What had happened? No reason was given that sudden flight.
He tried to turn and enter back into the residence of his wife and enter into explanations, but
his legs refused to obey. An instinctive horror, as if before a black hole and deep, he was arrested.
Advanced, with both hands clutching the railing, and came to his room. Hurricane, streaming
through the open window, had dominion over him, the papers were flying, the furniture that
was holding were wet. Her hands came across the desk chair and sat down without even trying
to find matches or close the window. It remained motionless, his eyes wide open in the dark, without
feeling the cold that penetrated to the bone or water showers bathed him and off the head, unable
to determine if the rumor that deafened and I was really dizzy wave or sounding only in his
brain.

So he was surprised the light of day, a sad day and dirty, like almost
all winter in rocks.

Alzose the end like a sleepwalker, entered the bedroom and flopped
in bed.

Ramiro could not wake him at nine o'clock for breakfast. It was a dream invincible annihilation,
like death. He slept in absolute immobility, eyes curved and densely
pale face.

When three o'clock in the afternoon he went to the profound lethargy,
knew without any wonder that his wife had left in the care of Lancia.

VII

After venting their anger Osuna's daughter, followed by Quadrant down
the street, laughing nervously for some time yet.

But that faded after laugh. He felt an uneasiness strange, some leeway
made his legs falter.

He paused a moment: he attacked wishes to turn back and spy on the
couple who left there in the Field of fainting.

The fear of being noticed stopped her. Although vague, it also gave account of the singular and reprehensible
behavior. Why had he done that? Who was she to spy footsteps of his confessor, let alone reprimand?
His defiance was so alive, however, that not allowed to repent.

His mouth was dry, her cheeks were burning. He walked hurriedly and went to the dock. I was
already alone.

The sea breeze cooled it a bit. Felt, yet so busy he did not want
to go home: I needed to talk, distracted.

Go to Ms Eloisa house and dine there as usual.

Just going to put the couple at the table when she arrived. They were accompanied by P. Norberto,
which meant that he had calluses.

- What stifled come, child! - Dona Eloisa said.

- Do not you know ...? I come home alone from Ms Trinidad ... I come to dinner with you ...
But do me the favor of sending a message to dad.

She tried to appear calm and cheerful.

- So alone, eh? Solita at eight in the evening - said D. Martin jokingly.

- Oh, if you knew what was coming hectic! ... So few people walking down the street. At a time
I found myself alone, I ran until I found some women.

- What? Did you fear who took it for one of those pigeons here Fr Norberto hunting with loop?
- turned to say D. Martin penthouse barracks humor.

The girl blushed to the ears. Doña Eloisa severe glanced at her husband.

- Come on, do not start barbarize, Martin.

- Lord, I do not speak only of the possibility of a mistake! - Invalid
replied, laughing .-- Y if not, tell me Fr Norberto if there is much
difference in figure between a lady and these girlfriends theirs.

-
They are friends of mine, D. Martin - laughing graciously replied
the good priest, - are sheep misguided ...

- But you do not throw
stones to return to the fold, but kisses ...

- Oh! Oh! D. Martin!

Good old D. Norbert, the chaplain and organist of the parish, too
modest to aspire to make triumphant virtue and faith among the upper
classes, was dedicated with enthusiasm had long to start the service
to these poor women who fall into it the most often by poverty.

Was introduced into the filthy dwellings they occupy, catechized making titanic efforts of oratory
that put red as a tomato and forced him to coughing and spitting
in a way awesome.

And when Bossuet art produced no effect, appealed money. He was a pious bribery where he had
spent the short flow inherited from their parents and it also took most of their pay. He had managed
to repentance various sinners, which used to lead to some asylum or convent established for
them in Valladolid, by covering it, of course, travel expenses, installation, etc. But in return
of these triumphs experienced the good chaplain horrible disappointment. Often beautiful was
contrite sinners, he drew all the rooms and concluded that they could laugh telling him and
the disappointment of the villa. But do not faint in his work. I was laughing test and failures.
Some who began deceiving, had finished repenting sincerely. The dream of D. Norberto Peñascosa was
found in a convent to repent. To achieve would be able to go begging throughout the province,
working as a bracero himself in the building, to give up eating tripe for the rest of his life.

In
the village everyone knew that their hobby. Most taunted her. There was no one believed not
entitled to give his little joke about particular more or less heavy, according to education of the
individual. But, much as they were, never saw him angry or give even signs of impatience. Kindly
laughed away or covered their ears. No no doubt, though some appear, their good intention and
complete disinterest that worked on this issue.

These sluts who deceived him, dared not utter slander, and if any had, soon was categorically
denied by their partners.

- Martin, I pray to God I do not rave! - Anguished said Ms Eloisa.

- Women mystics speak of kisses.

- Yes, Ms. Eloisa - was quick to say D. Norberto, - her husband wants to refer to the media I
need to use soft to convince those fuckers.

D. Martin, realizing it had gone too far, he nodded, but not a wink
expressive conduct the chaplain.

They sat at the table.

Obdulia was egregious efforts by eating, but his stomach refused
to receive any food.

Still in a state of agitation clearly visible. D. Martin's kids'
about his lack of appetite.

Was he in love perchance? Despite his penchant for the church, he
was betting that was to end violently passionate.

At a glance He knew the temperament for the love.

There were certain signs: the eyecup, which she was very pronounced, the eyes a little narrowed,
dry lips ... and others, and others.

The chief turned to slip invalid. Ms Eloisa was embers, and again called order anguished voice.
This happened very often.

D. Martin enjoyed the unspeakable coloring the cheeks of the ladies
with their bold statements.

He felt it was appropriate complement of another trend that was to
get red of the Knights with their proverbial slaps.

Both accused his temper inclinations and testified undeniably heroic
they come from the weapon of knighthood.

Obdulia used to respond to opportunity and grace, not infrequently
leaving piqued, but the concern now denied access to embargoed note
of his words and give them their due.

Before He felt unwell after dinner and had to go to another room and threw all he had eaten.

At
dessert arrived Ms Serafina Barrado with his chaplain and steward.

Both came incarnate extraordinarily cheerful and talkative. The eyes were shining with fire
gay and malicious that caught the attention of his friends.

- Here's a cigar, D. Martin - said the young priest, offering accredited one band, As he was
sucking the voluptuously.

- Good snuff! - Said the master of the house between the toes turning .-- What lashes stick
you, friend!

- Regular, Regular - replied the priest with a smile of satisfaction, leading to the same time an
expressive look to his former mistress, who paid with other bright and loving.

- Where do you buy?

- Do not buy: I give them away.

Another change of smiling glances and passionate.

- Ah! Then I go out to you for a trifle. Can you tell who is the lord so generous ...

- No sir, it is lady.

Another peek.

- Ah, rogue! I knew you enjoyed great favor with the ladies.

On the face of Ms Serafina alegrísima ran a dark cloud that momentarily.

- It is gift of Ms Serafina, due to be my birthday today - was quick to say the priest.

- It seemed to me that you came too happy today! ... To celebrate this there partying, right?

-
How to spree? - Asked D. Joaquín with some trepidation, fearing military openness his friend.

-
Yes, an intimate comidita special dishes and a couple of bottles of claret.

- It was burgundy - said D. Joaquin laughing - was burgundy.

- Better and better.

- Yes! - Ms Serafina said, ogling his chaplain.

He returned to start including the shooting glances and winks, lavishing attention thousand tender
denoting a state of perfect bliss.

The arrival of Ms Rita did not disturb her ecstasy, less or more delicious. This lady, small
and plump, with big black eyes and big teeth expressionless also healthy and yellow always
entered with a basket where he kept the job. Sacábala slowly, working half hours quietly listening
carefully to everything that was said, and picked up again after the belongings and went to do the
same elsewhere. This ran in the night three or four houses.

It was his habit of knowing, knowing everything, even the most trivial and insignificant.
It well tolerated everywhere, because despite his boundless curiosity never had febrile for any disappointment
caused. Know as only he enjoyed: he was a disinterested pleasure, intense as that of the scientists
who do not look at the result that their knowledge can give them. As the miser piled up in the box
without thinking of gold coins in use ever Ms Rita and treasured in his mind many private
reports could pick up on his travels through the town, without disturbing anyone with them. A
few were kept, then, to talk secrets in his presence, but if someone did it and came to notice
him rushing these desires and anxieties to know what he hid, he had not slept or rested for a moment,
walked pale, haggard, be made rude and intractable. Once discovered the coveted secret, even
if the thing flimsiest grew calm and serenity, returned to its sweet,
peaceful, harmless.

Some subject thugs, as Don Martin, P. Narciso, D. Joachim and others used to tease pretending
a mystery among them, tormented, made him lose his mind on a whim.

But when he entered the P. Narciso, D. Joaquin became more serious, that fellow hiding ineffable
joy, he frolicked in his soul, his eyes avoiding find cheerful sparkling with his former mistress.
He felt at once in the nose a whiff aromatic cigar, looked searchingly at his colleague, Ms Serafina
other and began to date.

- There Gaudeamus, right? - Asked softly.

D. Joaquin blatantly refused.

One after another were coming director, Candida, Mrs. Filomena, P. Melchor, Marcelina and,
in short, almost all regular commentators. Soon Formáronse groups always disintegrated the
elements of that society, operating in it the chemical phenomenon elective affinities. But
this operation was done without the violent upheaval and shocks that are observed in the bosom
of nature, without the actions and reactions to gives rise by fermentation. That night, Candida,
the bony Miss you already know, in Instead of going to kiss the hand of the Father Melchor and
sit beside him and whispering all evening, was to do the same with Fr Norberto. Why this drop? In
the gathering nobody knew more than interested and Ms Rita. Fr Melchor had the foresight to say in
a rochets house that made him the youngest cited were limited in breadth, and it cost him
work with them to bend the arm. Instead, he warmly praised a collar that had given Ms Marciala. The
case was serious, as anyone will understand, and should produce this sad result. Ms Marciala,
Father Narciso seeing more and more inclined to admit and thank the fervent admiration of Ms
Filomena, showed his emotion and indignation, approaching D. Melchor and speaking with an affected
baby. Ms Filomena, after several years of worship resigned, quiet,
had arrived, when they did not expect the goal of their aspirations.
Much attention, so much love had finally managed to captivate the
spirit of telling chaplain Sarrió, who gave clear evidence to the
widow of his affection. After having tried in vain many times, it
had sought from him that was tutor to his son, and to take office
with fans. His fiery temperament is dominant and then said. Poor child
had to experience not only too much work, beyond his years, but a
series of cruel, malicious, refined. And Ms Filomena, who was the
sweetest, I had never raised his hand on his son, impassive man consented
to whip mercilessly. Quieted his conscience by saying that it was
for good.

Marcelina, who had dreamed to replace Ms Serafina in the
heart of D. Joaquín (and actually had some basis for this dream, as
the young priest did not stop to distinguish among all), he was already
quite disappointed. Became convinced that it took her as a tool for
getting a little to your love and have it more attentive and submissive.
This conviction pushed back to D. Narciso, who had long been abandoned,
but this, that he had never professed great fondness, as Obdulia,
unceremoniously rejected. If, however, ex-girl still struggling bravely
with Ms Filomena. A few days earlier had given the Chaplain crochet
a bedspread that was a marvel of pacienzudo and skilled labor. Certainly
the widow, seeing her on the bed of the clergy, underwent a lively
displeasure and cried many tears in secret.

These spiritual turmoil,
the struggles of sensitivity and pious devotion among ladies who attended
there were precisely those that gave a dramatic interest in that world
serene, innocent. Skills were certainly not rude down in societies
profane, where a violent intrigues affect where the relations of man
and the female are based always on the explosion of the senses, bear
the stamp abominable animality. Everything was done in a soft, innocent,
spiritual small shocks that we have mentioned were like the soft ripple
of a lake and transparent beautiful. It was that gathering as a prelude
to heaven where the angels relations, of holy men and women reach
the highest degree of purity immortal.

What was happening for the
soul of Osuna's daughter confirms that idea just made. After that
experience gastric upset, son of the excitement that was, fell into
a deep physical and moral weakness. I felt if they had the impression
she committed a great treachery, and though his mind told him vaguely
absurd in a sense, could not lessens its intensity, or less discarded.
P. hated Gil, you hated with all his soul. I'd give anything for revenge.
What? Not tell her, but beyond the depths of the soul was convinced
he was right to do so. He was unshakable resolution not to confess
to him anymore. With him! A priest comes by night in doorways whispering
with beautiful women and elegant! Ugh! Would be ashamed to do so.
Obdulia was quite sure a woman talking to her confessor was cute.
This assurance was torturing. Of course that if he had the audacity
to come to talk, give him a cold shoulder from the fat, I would back.
And confess again with D. Narciso. And tell his friends in what situation
you had seen a lady unknown and elegant. Because there was no doubt
who was dressed elegantly While he had repaired. Long coat that was
not done in Peñascosa. Who would? Some Lancia, sure, that would pay
him a visit. And why do you come from afar to visit a priest, not
his mother or his sister or his debt? Do not you know that lady that
fame Priests are very delicate and anything bankruptcy