 Since money is the object of worship, French
  society, and especially Paris, is prey profit, gain easy,
  immediate, whether or not moral.

  
  The source of wealth is work: out of it is searched Paris and
  acquired with the Auxiliary to offer, now the Prostitution
  now vice. Men, women, are inattentive in a confused maelstrom
  in search of money, and a vertigo pushes them a thirst consumes hydropic
gold.

  
  
  So are many other peoples of Europe, next to a Stormy dislocations
  which must necessarily bring agio of the bags. The feudalism of
  money now weighs about people, more terrible even than the Middle
  Ages, the oppressed in the name of certain principles, even ridiculous,
  had something noble and great in the way, that of our days is
  miserable and awkward, no slogan or shield more than money it
  is their religion, politics, morals, its coat of arms,
  everything: money, and nothing but money. Oppress him companies
  are imposing the law to governments, make it impossible liberty:
  a dozen Jewish bankers lend money to all Christian governments
  of Europe, giving the law to all bags, enhance and stimulate
  the ambition of money to any price purchased. The Gold Rush
  silt up the sources of public morality, and enslave the peoples
  because a corrupt people can not get to be free: replaced
  God with money given to public worship everywhere and particularly
  in their temples-bags.

  
  The revolution, the day on which to account, to demolish their
  foundation stock, and make impossible the reign of gold, most miserable
of all.

  
  
  Returning to Paris, from which an almost involuntary digression
  me separately in the capital of France, where it receives more worship
  than anywhere else in the world money, there are sanctimonious
  all means to acquire it, that burning desire to live there hearts,
  there is absolutely necessary to purchase money and that not enough
is considered a man without talent Is horrible!

  
  
  The French company running hastily to an abyss. A government
  to fertilize the sources of public morality with good laws
  and examples, to kill the agio, which ennobled the work, to preach
  the sanctity of the modest August fortunes of the people, nobly acquired
by the sweat of front may stop the catastrophe that threatens us.

  
  
  A free government knows, involved, examine everything, there is
  transparency to all acts, the discussion and publicity
  absolutely free kill those secret miseries that make life speculators,
  with a free government, are touting and demonize all concussions,
  freedom occupies the minds in higher things, to make citizens live
in an area of noble aspirations, sentiments large.

  
  
  By studying the statistics is that corruption spreads Paris quickly,
  and the manner of a foul leprosy, threatens to consume the body
  social. In Paris there is scarcely family, and without
  this society is not possible: the hotels and restaurants are those
  that meet the most part to the inhabitants of the capital at
  the lunch: a large part of the population of Paris throughout
  the year come out of his house, and homeless, sanctuary of the conditions,
dissolved on the street.

  
  

  You can ensure that almost half the population of Paris eats outside
  your home all year.
  
  How are bonds of love saints must unite individuals of the
  same family, the classes of the same tree? Impossible, impossible
  to education of children, which perfect at home, hearth and home;
  impossible the conditions that are born, grow, develop and live
  within home, and only there, impossible to family, who live dispersed
  on the street, and the family is impossible, impossible is also
  society, and this is what happens in Paris, this is
  what I I've seen, these are the social mores of the capital France,
which many witness without stopping to deduct consequences, that is
what they see all foreigners.

  
  

  Meditate well on its significance, that is important, I infer
  that and pointed.
  
  In Paris are easily bought and sold conditions are traffics in
  everything, and the one universal religion is that devoted to money.
  Recorded daily processes scandalous disconsolate philosopher able
  to create less in the perfectibility of the human race,
  to succeed each other bankruptcies that lay in desolation and
  frighten families the observer, the suicides are repeated with
  a tremendous often puts scare in the soul: the courts deal almost
  without respite in knowing that condemns any defamatory
  matters moral, it is unsound, and all these acts just enunciate
  pass into the light of day and recorded in statistics: who
  will be able to deal with actions that not judged in secret scenes
that rend the soul every day within families?

  
  
  If we study the statistics of the moral life of Paris is the dismal
  and terrible figures are increased each year: the broken marriages,
  suicides, new homes game, the great fortunes plummet, the terrifying
  miseries that appear, the court processes that twice, homes of correction
  that are filled, in a word data are published every year concerning
  the moral status Paris society, are enough to discourage the spirit
  and almost prostrate faith in progress.

  
  
  This is the moral Paris we have seen, and moving away of such
  a sad picture, we shall continue our tour through its attractions
and its material appearance, lively and brilliant in the extreme.

  
  
  The most notable churches I've visited in Paris, are the Cathedral,
  St. Sulpice, Mary Magdalene, St. Germain l'Auxerrois the Holy Chapel,
St. Vincent de Paul, San Esteban del Monte, and Santa Clotilde.

  
  
  La Magdalena, which I deal elsewhere slightly, is a very pretty art
  building, which has four elegant facades, with their respective
  order of columns each Corinthian, is a slender, graceful monument,
  which resembles a Greek temple, a lyceum, a gymnasium. The
  interior corresponds to announcing his gallant bearing out, and
  participates Christian also taste some of its facade. In the
  table altar appears Napoleon, whom we had no news that had been
  canonized, it is also true that we have seen in Milan, capping
  one of the elegant needle its magnificent cathedral.

  
  
  Notre-Dame, which also speak in another place, is a imposing
  and majestic temple, where they currently barbarian repairs unsightly
venerable appearance.

  Also the church of Saint Sulpice is worth seeing.
  
  The church of San Esteban del Monte, whose magnificent interior surprises
  with its architectural elegance and taste and severe style, has
  lately been the scene of a great crime that ended in sent a
  shockwave through Paris.

  Inside the church is the murderer Verge buried a knife in the heart
  of the venerable Archbishop of Paris Archbishop Sibour.
  
  Saint Germain l'Auxerrois deserve the traveler's check, his
  elegant construction, but somewhat flattened shape, its different
styles forming a bizarre, its inner beauty are regarded as one very
good and make San Germain one of the most beautiful churches in Paris.

  
  
  San Vicente de Paul, with its elegant and airy porch columns,
  its two towers and the main body so handsome, also called the attention
of looking for art and taste monumental: the interior is severe and
religious.

  
  
  La Sainte Chapelle, playing with the Palace of Justice, is a prodigy
  of art: graceful shapes and eastern purity lines, architectural
  severity. The slight and graceful tower that rises like
  a crown, would be doubly beautiful if modern, which aim to decorate
  everything, they had not disfigured by making it a subject
  of hardware, many are those that have gilded dress. However, the
  traveler can not be dispensed to visit the temple is magnificent
  and venerable.

  I waive its history here because that is not my object in this place.

Santa
  Clotilde, located across the Seine, is a true Jewel: observing
  his youth, written in its construction, the feel a sense of
  wonder. In our century up so fast, and this time when construction
  to be good must require little time, has risen in Santa Clotilde
  a Gothic church pure, without mixture of tastes and styles. It
  is a beautiful church worthy of being seen: recently be completed
  and submitted for public worship. Before his elegant facade
  lies a spacious plaza planted gardens, which embellish the
  picture.

  
  The real Paris monument which today is the Louvre, joined as is
  already the Tuileries. It seems incredible that in this century
  how quickly light up without ever stopping in works long term,
  have been verified in such a short period colossal works of the Louvre.

And

  has joined with the Tuileries, and form a whole without rival, Place
  du Carrousel great, wonderfully admirable, is perhaps the most impressive
  in Europe: the art, which dispenses with on frequency in modern
  buildings, bright incredible majestic works of the Louvre:
  Good Italian and French architects who have directed the
  work, have built a glorious temple for art forms, architectural
  taste, good traditions preserved, the severity of styles, luxurious
  construction, air imposing breathing, the whole and details
  surprise and admiration. Worthy of praise is the consistency
  with which the present chief magistrate of France has taken and
  ended so gigantic works.
  
  To advise visitors to Paris to stop frequently front of the Louvre,
there is much to consider, there is much to admire.

  
  
  Also worth a special visit and stopped the rich museums that adorn
the interior, including painting and sculpture.

  The latter, well ordered and quite rich, containing among other
  marvels of Greek statues of the Gladiator and Venus, which
  will astound the mind and make Greece artistic apologia: impossible
  thing more admirable, are models are timeless works are marvels
  of art.
  
  The museum of paintings, where the different schools shine know, claims
many visits of anyone who loves the noble art of Raphael and Murillo.

  Richest school that holds in the galleries of the Louvre is the
  Flemish, with Pleiades inspired brilliant artists, with animated
  paintings.
  
  The Italian school, powerfully splendid, also looks at the Louvre
with all its pomp in the square room, the richest of all, read at
the foot of canvas without rival, the illustrious headings of Raphael,
Titian, Rubens, Paul Veronese, Tintoretto, Leonardo de Vinci, Murillo,
in the midst of those children of genius, two immortal Virgin proclaims
the strength of Spanish school, which also shines with all its brave
splendor in the halls of the Louvre.

  
  
  The French school, richer there than in any other museum It
  also has the major works of his inspired teachers: in short, those
  who visit Paris, you can not dispense in any way to see the Louvre.

The
  theaters of Paris, studied with detention, grieve deeply the
  mind: public morality ever goes wrong stop: it is extremely
  difficult to attend to the representation of a comedy in which there
is a woman who deceives her husband is a detail almost indispensable.

  
  
  True, the playwright who lives in Paris, which studies of society
  and translates it into the scene, is not to all times to portray
noble types ... but anyway forms of dialogue, the Spanish public,
the English public, not acceptable ever.

  
  
  In Spain, otherwise understand the theater, will certainly because
  our family is different. This therefore makes the theater moral
  question: if we speak of the halls and orchestras nothing good can
point, absolutely nothing around Paris there is a great theater, not
one, orchestras can be heard only the Opera, which is great, and the
Italians and Opera-Comique, the rest are provincial orchestras.

  
  
  Forms of dialogue, a little casual and free also contribute to
  the impression of disgust that produce cited in the mind of comedy
  you're used to a dramatic literature and moral dignity, without being
fanatical or superstitious, always respects the moral maxims taught
comforting, offers noble types, and does not offend the modesty never
mothers or daughters.

  
  
  The study more comforting than I have done in Paris has been
  the daily reading of the section containing losses newspapers.
  The soul rests and rejoices as I read read ads daily that poor
  people do to have found gold bracelets, bank notes, precious
  jewels, and what is more even, purses and wallets with respectable
amounts in cash: they publish to becomes aware of their own and pass
to pick them up.

  It admirable, is magnificent, it is comforting! Examples
  such as those I quote you see all day, and they give are generally
  people without any recourse, working poor unfortunate. Magnificent!
  I collect this data with great pleasure in my book! Data is
  a dildo!
  
  The Paris public lighting leaves much to be desired and is very far
from corresponding to the greatness of the capital.

  The choice persuaded of the truth of this assertion, which is passed
  a Paris Sunday after one night, or any other day of the week.
  There are more lanterns in the shops in Street: this happens
  on the same boulevard, as soon as closed shops and hotels that
  have lighting, street Paris offered a bit dark because of
  bluff to bluff there a great distance, and the light comes with
  great difficulty. The Richelieu Street, Vivienne, Montmartre
  and a hundred, have, after twelve o'clock at night, a questionable
  light and opaque; this is the truth.
  
  Let's continue our tour of the city.
  
  The face of Paris change every day, beautiful; the six years ago visited
the monuments and streets, is Today many reforms and innovations,
which can scarcely recognize.

  Apart from the colossal works of the Louvre, the imagination can
  not understand have been executed in such a short term, the Rue
  de Rivoli, majestic and proud, is to increase the admiration
  of the traveler. In all areas of the big business, have been
  demolished hundreds of houses miserable rise on the ruins of palaces
  and elegant today buildings.
  
  Work on the grains market in front of the church St. Eustache, Paris
  disfigured site that has been made shortly term, and today there
  are great markets. The Boulevard Sebastopol, work in any
  other country that had lasted eight or ten years, is nearing completion
  at all, beautifying more and more Paris.

  The Bois de Boulogne, Champs Elysees, all neighborhoods have changed
in appearance: the Paris of the year 40 completely disappears to give
place to a new city.

  
  
  The proposed study in Paris has more resources than anywhere in
  the world, and helpful observation theaters and useful, has, in
  addition to their libraries, newspapers, theaters and academies,
  have, say, the boulevard, a thousand book chapters of deep
  learning, is the quarters of the workers, of the aristocracy,
  the trade, the unfortunate, the curious rag-picker, statistics,
  high and low the stock market, fluctuations in European
  politics, the flight newspapers, the tumultuous roar of their orchestras
and ebullient delights: the terrible loneliness of misfortune and
misery, the great fortunes from the side of the heroic and misfortunes
suffered the scorching volcanic rages pleasure hectic everywhere and
screaming without respite to not out of tune you hear the voice of
the disaffected: contrasts tremendous, the ruins and misery, glory
and money: the most perfect quiet, always ready to become angry storm,
the dark uncertain future and present: belief and faith to the side
of skepticism and ridicule: how big mixed with the small, all contrasts,
enfin, everyone.

  No study more profitable, none more useful than teaching that
  is acquired by studying the city monster called Paris.
  
  Among the delightful walks in Paris, stands out in the first complete
  the Bois de Boulogne, the most remarkable recreational site any
  capital that Europe can offer.
  
  Its leafy streets of felled trees with more art finish, lakes and
waterfalls, meadows delicious, their artistic gardens and woodlands
make up a set so happy and smiling, so beautiful and elegant than
any painter less sensitive may not absorbed and delighted to behold,
its proportions, his paintings, lights and shadows, its poetry, enfin.

  
  
  Within flaunts his prodigious extension with the luxury of a spring
  inside, the superb Pré Catelan, deliciosísimo recreational site
  that brings together the richest and most varied collection of
  flowers in Europe. The night parties there are in the middle the
  burning of lights that shine, look like a fairy tale: their orchestras
  and theaters, among which is the first place the call of the flowers,
  for being so in reality its canals and bridges, the hillocks
  and waterfalls, make it a lovely garden. At the Bois de Boulogne
  come in numbers fabulous most elegant carriages of Paris, and the
  crowd pleased walks and spreads among his greatness.
  
  In the Bois de Boulogne are also several other gardens, there
  restaurants, Swiss houses, cafes, etc., etc. Beside the great cascade
  extends the plain of Longchamps, where they horse racing site.

The
  bus lines that run through Paris in all directions spend
  thirty, all have a great number of carriages and a great service
  to the public in addition to encourage capital with their movement
  and life. The rate of prices is the most comfortable imaginable,
  for three salaries in the imperial and six in bus, it
  runs along a line, usually consists of a large distance across Paris
from one end to another.

  
  
  Square cars, ruled since last August by a new fee, also offer service
on its well understood few amenities may like: their number is large,
its stations located throughout the capital, so the traveler finds
as soon as a coach want his service.

  Among privately owned cars, the lines bus, car companies
  plaza, cars & vehicles of all species, the number of carriages
  that circulates through the Paris inside the fabulous amounts
  of one hundred seventy thousand. According to the new rate can
  now be a carriage minutes, having no obligation to pay as before
  one hour but the time spent, each carriage has a fixed
  clock indicate when it is taken.

  
  
  Around the huge metropolis are also worthy of be visited by more
  than one concept. Apart from the care and taste that is cultivated
  countryside, brighten and beautify their terms the many happy
  people displayed by all parties. Because communications are so
  easy, thanks to the railroads, a foreigner who wishes to study
  and learn around Paris can get your order in a few days. In the
  dock of the San Lazaro Street to find quarter of an hour train
  that will lead to Asnieres Ville d'Avray, Sevres, Versailles, St.
  Cloud, St. Germain, for very comfortable price.

  In the same street station San Lazaro is a railway line to visit
  Passy Auteuil, to Batignolles, Courcelles, Porte Maillot Bois de
  Boulogne. Heading abroad to road North iron, you can also
  see in half an hour three delightful towns, among which stands out
for its beauty Enghien, with its tranquil lake, which surround all
handsome houses field.

  At any point that the traveler is directed, and any that is the
  direction of their trips, is assured find cafes, hotels and restaurants
  in abundance. Since both has been promoted in recent years the
  work of the railways of France, Paris is in communication instant
  with all the capitals of Europe, so arrive in large numbers daily
  travelers of all around the world come to visit. The number
  of foreigners pouring in from all parts of the land rises
  to a figure truly amazing, and in Paris, modern Babylon, Oyens speak
all languages ??and are all the costumes.

  
  
  The prisons of Paris a few years ago left much to be want, have
  greatly improved their system and organization, and today,
  although they can serve as models, certainly worth a visit
  arrested when trying to learn compared.
  
  The stations of the railway lines, buildings have to me more
  important than any other public facilities, for its high significance
  in the holy crusade of the ideas that transmit them to the towns,
  making them know each other, are veritable palaces in Paris.
 