 

Don Rosendo took it with ardor and seriousness it deserved. Every day spent a few hours in
the morning and one in the afternoon, to lie to the fund, which was all that allowed to the teacher
in the first two months. The most remarkable result of this exercise was that after some time
did not know if his legs were really theirs or other biped sound like him. So sharp and vivid
that the laces were attacked, that even when sleeping was believed to be jumping into the background.
Awoke with a start in terrible pain joint. After that M. Lemaire was so cruel! Never was satisfied
the work of the good knight :--«¡ Tips Plus! Plus! Ancor Sapristi plus! " And the poor creature
Rosendo opened, opened in a barbaric, unthinkable, feeling the nice feeling if you sawed the
caul. Over so noble exercise, Mr Belinchón needed to be looked taken to the walls to move from
one place to another, forming eighty degree angle with the floor. From there until the end of his
days, the glorious founder of Lighthouse Sarrió always walked more or less spread one's legs.

But
this torment, but it had nothing to envy to those of the martyrs of Japan, padecíalo, if not
with pleasure, with manly courage.

Always thought that civilized side enormous sacrifices and civilize a country. After two months
started ticking eternal florets. But without abandoning the torment of the legs. Rudesindo Don Alvaro
Peña, Sinforoso, Pablito, Folgueras the printer and some others, took lessons at the same time.
In the room, impressions subjugated war so the shooters, who kept a solemn silence. Nothing could
be heard that gravelly voice of M. Lemaire repeated endlessly and a distracted manner: - En garde vivement
- Contre of Ripostez .-- quarte ... Oh well! - En garde contre Sixt .-- vivement. Ripostez ...
Oh well! - Parez seconde Rispostez .-- Ah well! Don Rosendo was believed moved to Paris and saw Don Rudesindo,
Folgueras and Sinforoso to Grisier, Anatole de la Forge and the Baron de Basancourt. El Faro no was
El Faro, but Le Gaulois and Le Journal des Débats.

After five months, was kept pretty well guarded, kept the jabs, attacking
furiously and jumped back with mastery.

He thought if necessary to make a scandal. Was People need to be convinced that the two thousand
francs allocated to teacher were not entirely lost .. Also must go by introducing the taste
for these refinements of the big cities. But with whom to have affair in Sarrió? Although
good he spent his desire to challenge any of the Cabin, I realized that the only one capable
of fighting was Gabino Maza. To him had a migajita of respect, especially since he had heard from
the teacher in duels was necessary to be careful with violent men but knew no fencing. After
long and deep meditation imagined that the best was to provoke a set of Lancia with drawing a journalist
controversy that came Faro holding to the Future, on a branch road. And as I thought it did. The first
issue was so aggressive, so insolent to the newspaper of the capital, this one, amazed and
indignant, said that certain sentences of Faro but not merited contempt. In consequence, Don Rosendo
commissioned his friends and Sinforoso Alvaro Peña Suárez 'for they were to understand "the
director of the Future. They moved to Lancia and returned the same day. Mr. Belinchón to see
them come and ardently wished that the matter be have managed without the need for mourning, though
it was he who provoked it. New evidence of singular greatness of soul and the exquisite sensitivity
that was gifted. Unfortunately Future director had held firm. The witnesses agreed to a saber
duel which was performed the next day, on a possession in the vicinity of Lancia.

Our hero, unknowingly, she felt her legs were weak, not fear, that this no even dare to imagine, but
for the thrill of being so close to being an object of curiosity and public expectation, not
only in the province, but in all Spain.

When they walked towards home, Peña said with rough frankness:

- The sponsors of Villar wanted to cut off the tips of their swords, but I opposed. "No, no, I
said, know all about Don Rosendo, and is one who hates childish things.

Can not play with him. When you get into a set of these, they need to go all serious. I Cortasa
sure if the tips have a quarrel with him ... "Have not I played While your desire?

- Perfectly. Thank you very much, Alvaro - Mr Belinchón said holding out a hand Pena found
too cold.

He added in a faint voice: - Although a little limasen the tips, you know? would have no problem
in accepting ... The issue, after all, no specifically requires it to death.

- I dared not even to accept that.

Not knowing the opinion of you, I was afraid that dislikes ...

- Nothing, nothing, because for me there is no objection to the limen.

-
Now you can not be.

Conditions are agreed. Unless they intend again, the tips will be sharp. A lot because you
should throw the foil ...

- Precisely for this reason.

I would not take advantage on my opponent.

Peña winked maliciously.

- Do not be so scrupulous, Don Rosendo. Yes you can string fiiit! like a bird, not quit.

These last words were accompanied by the assistant with an expressive
gesture, crossing the air finger tip, the same as if he were entering
a human body.

Don Rosendo made a gesture of disgust, and kept long silence.

After all, said silently:

- What I feel is that these damn shoelaces not allow me to throw myself thoroughly.

- Ca, man, ca! Miss you care. The duration of the haul, you will not feel any pain in the legs.
Has not happened but feel the pain of a toothache at the time of call at the door of the dentist
to remove?

This simile was immediately comforting aide a fit of laughter, which lasted well time. Belinchón
remained serious and somber, as within the ambit of the heroes on the eve of battle.

The news spread like an electric spark from the public. The astonishment of the neighbors was
indescribable. None of them fit into a person's head, into and in years, married with children,
was to be a saber with the other as a matter of a branch road.

However, the match Belinchón leaded that astonished the decision
and the value of your boss.

This, at night, had a frightful nightmare. He dreamed that the sword of the Future director
would open up the middle. One half will go to the winner as a trophy.

A Sarrió only returned the other half. Their own I woke up screaming. Dona Paula, who slept beside
her, so terrified, which was necessary to go to antispasmodic. Belinchón, with the heroic strength
of the temperaments, said nothing to her consort. What he did was take a drink of antispasmodic.

Next
day he went by car to Lancia, accompanied by Peña, Sinforoso, Don
Rufo and two swords of fire.

On leaving the town on the road, over a hundred people got fired. Given this demonstration of affection,
Don Rosendo felt touched.

- Good luck - Put you telegram, huh? - Do not say that Sarrió Lancia is below.

Don Rosendo was shaking with emotion the hands of his supporters. All were being offered to accompany
him, and he promised revenge for the case of perishing in the struggle.

At last they came to the fifth designated, and were seen with the
enemy.

Witnesses talked, measured swords, and put in the hands of the contestants.

The appearance of these had the right color to such formalities, that
is, a green bottle, which took intervals orange overtones.

Once on duty, and given voice to attack, were both beginning to be tempted sabers methodically first
on one side after another, with a mournful sound that put terror.

After all, Villar rushed to lift the head to hurt his opponent ... But ca! Rosendo gave so
prodigious leap backwards, as witnesses looked at each other with wonder. Villar, also stunned,
waited to come near his opponent again. Returned to the gloomy tic tac. Don Rosendo, after
another moment, he raised his sword ... Villar, instantly took another truly supernatural leap
that far surpassed the first. They believed that leaving the fifth. Witnesses watched with
even greater astonishment.

The fight lasted, in this way, more than half an hour. In it, Don Rosendo cried once:

- Stop!

- What? - Asked witnesses approaching.

- That seems to me that the sword of the Lord has lost the tip.

Saber was recognized Villar, and saw that it was not true. This trait of chivalry more typical
of the Middle Ages to our times, rose to Don Rosendo, the public perception when it became known,
at the height of the legendary heroes, Roland, Bayardo and Bernardo
del Carpio.

The fighting ended when the saber Villar, without any intention, ran into the front Belinchón. It was
just a scratch, but the sponsors called off the set. Don Rufo placed a large piece of taffeta English
on the wound. The wounded man shook hands nobly its opposite. Sent a telegram to Lancia, so they
put a Sarrió. Lunched all happily together, and during lunch, champions contacted major expansion
the blows that were intended, and that lack of opportunity had not been executed.

- Man, if you get no break on time, delivery will head in two.

Feint of a two in the face, thrust to the chest and slash at his
head - said Don Rosendo, swallowing a superb piece of hake.

- Well,
you would not have been better if I make a combination which had meditated
- answers Villar .-- Amago pin belt!

Falsely attacked the head pin! You answered my arm pin!

I make a two pin face! You answer a pin head!

I stop and answer the arm Pin! ...

Here the director of the Future of Lancia, which as he described his
famous hit hard Gobble kept while tracing circles in the air with
his fork, he choked a thorn, suddenly getting redder than a cherry.

We had to get al fresco.

Don Rosendo was who gave the punches well-known in the back to throw
the spine.

Show beautiful example of nobility that can not ever forget!

After lunch, Don Rosendo and his companions got into the carriage
and restored to Sarria.

More than half the population, and prevented by the telegram was waiting outside. A cry of joy
escaped from every breast when approaching the carriage. Don Rosendo, moved, pulled the head
out the window and took off his hat bearing the English piece of taffeta. In his view, the audience
gave a cheer! formidable. The vehicle was escorted by the crowd. The founder of the Lighthouse,
cheered when he entered the house, was compelled after a peek at balcony, which was new and warmly cheered.
At night, his friends presented him with a serenade.

XII

Had fun PABLITO

- Should put a bearded soft - Pablito said.

- Or a steak - Pisces replied gravely.

They were silent. Pablito said:

- Damn horse! I've seen in my life sweeter mouth.

- A silk - his friend replied in a tone of unwavering conviction.

Another moment of silence.

- Do you think we should give more riding?

- The riding school is not superfluous to any animal - Pisces grunted with the same conviction.

- Should work on the trot.

- It is a lot.

While thus conversing, the inseparable fair dirigíanse slowly from the depot Don Rosendo, situated
in one end of town, on the other end of it, going through the middle.

It was ten o'clock at night, the mild temperature of spring. The few passers that the streets
were, dirigíanse briskly toward his home. Remained only stores open gatherings where did that
of Graells, that of the Morana, and as it tobacconist. The cabin had plenty of light and great
animation.

Pablito, in whom the bitterness germinated his father, he told his friend to pass by the hated gathering:

-
Pisces, throw a stone at the door, and break them glasses.

Pisces always terrible, grabbed a pebble on the street, waited for his friend bent the corner, and
bam! fit it into the cabin, making the glass powder. Then he gave running. For those who know
him do not come out in pursuit, he fell on hands, running on all fours with amazing skill.

In the cafe of the Navy had also some people.

Entered it and drank in silence paths glasses of chartreuse, but why the brain would stop working
actively. On rising Pablito said:

- What better hook with Romero.

- That's what I was thinking - uttered with fire Pisces.

After they had left, he asked, not with words but with a horrible grimace, to where they went.

-
Beyond.

- Well, then walk past the house gather rattan.

They passed the main streets, but not before Pisces was arrested at
his home an instant, to comply with what he had to express.

Very soon reached the extremities of the village, inhabited, as a
rule, the artisans.

They stopped on a certain street, as lonely as dirty, compared to
a house in poor appearance with rough wooden corridor.

Pablito looked around as a precaution, and let out a soft whistle
prolonged expertise that characterized him in this branch of human
knowledge.

Then he said, looking with concern the lamp that burned about fifty feet away:

- If we could put that lantern!

The terrible Pisces said the next breath, climbed the wall corner
and with his staff turned it off right away, breaking, of course,
the tube.

A lump of a woman appeared in the corridor.

Pablito took a leap into bars.

Then by mounting them and climbed on the railing, was introduced
quietly in it.

Pisces began to stand guard around the corner, armed with his formidable
club.

Who was the woman who at the time got the favor of the Sultan of Sarrió?

The blonde Nieves, a voice will answer those successfully followed
the course of this true story.

Although offended the insight of our readers, the truth compels us to declare that lady runner Nieves
was not the blonde, but blonde Valentina.

How? "That surly seamstress as the enemy of the gentlemen and that she had a boyfriend named Cosme?

The
same in body and soul, with her golden curls on his forehead and
his eyebrows saladísimo nose a little rolled up.

Pablito was a man to make these and other major miracles. While was or seemed to follow his
affair with snow, "he was putting the dots" to Valentina.

But it resisted more than that. The first kiss he stole on his neck while drinking water in
cooking, sewing Arriscado "I made a scene."

Turned red as a cherry, expressive eyes sparkled with anger, and shouted:

- Watch out, I do not suffer these things! ... You go to them with which it can withstand.

This
was no doubt Nieves. Pablito more carefully worked on, but not less daring. Wherever requebrábala
found his way, he joked, was suffering with patience their "crow's
feet."

Valentina because it was the kind of artisan Sarrió, in whom the lack education is a gift
to add to the many who have.

Ventura's team concluded, and having no chance to see it, Pablito
advantage School dances to follow celebrating.

But that did not indulged Nieves.

The gallant young man guessed that the self-excited by competition, would do more in their favor
that they were personal benefits that gifted. This insight was innate in him. He had made clear
since he the first woman in love. Which is one more argument for those who believe in the preexistence
the human being.

For only having seduced many seamstresses in previous lives, could we youth have a very exact
notion of the proper procedure for this purpose.

At last he had surrendered. Began to leave her boyfriend. He concluded by giving evening appointments
as this the gallant Pablito.

- Do you sleep your father? "- Was the first question it made as soon as you saw in the hallway.

-
What do you care? - Said the seamstress resolved.

- Is that if you do not sleep ... you see ... Caspita, the thing is serious!

- Shut up, coward, shame you to give you! I will make noise for the pleasure of seeing you run.

Pablito
his arms and gave him a reasonable amount of kisses. The girl smiled happy. But suddenly his
brow furrowed, his face expressed great severity.

- Quito, Quito! - Said turned .-- I have to ask you a question. Where have you been this tomorrow?

-
"This morning?

... In many parts.

At home in the Saloncillo, in the garage ... on top Pawn ...

- Have not you been on the streets of San Florencio?

- Yes, I've
been there twice or thrice.

- And who have you found?

- Girl, what
do I know?

... A lot of people.

- Have not found Nieves? - Asked the gentle
seamstress repressed anger.

- Yes, I have found - he said with emphasis
indifferent.

- Do not you ever stop to it?

- No, I have just said
goodbye.

- Liar!

Hypocrite! Whistling guy! - Valentina angrily exclaimed .-- Take,
for fox!

(Snuggling a terrible pinch on the arm). "So you've just said goodbye and I've been more an
hour with her? Here, tricky! Take it!

And I downloaded about a hail of pinching arms.

Good Paul was writhing in pain, but do not shout, because I respect
the father's dream of fierce girl.

- By God, Valentina, you're wrong
... It was not only a moment to ask whether embroidery had finished
my scarves ...

- Not bad moment!

One hour by the clock planted with it, laughing like crazy! ... I are taking forward of drowning
in my hands, fox! Fox! But fox!

The angry girl, increasingly possessed by anger, threw his hands around
the neck of her lover, and was about to strangle him.

Was a pity to see so handsome and gentle young man with his tongue
out and eyes full terror.

Valentina was indeed sorry for him and left him, but he still twisted
coat of arms a few times.

- I do not deceiving me, you know?

I do not deceiving me! If I know that you've been with her excuses to come here anymore.

- Well, I promise not to tell you more, but do not go ignoring the first story to bring you.

- Will you do the word? - Cruel seamstress asked looking at him angrily.

- Do not worry.

- Count on me if he does. Rise!

This gentle and tender, was the philandering of Sarrió Valentina.
He, when he realized Pisces such dealings or some other friend, smiling
as man of the world stated that these irascible and arrogant women
are the most deliciously provide men, particularly those who like
him were already a bit worn. 

After they made peace, or rather, after
Valentina gave peace, there a whisper that lasted not know how. After
not heard anything, and to be easy nor you could see much. The corridor
was as though there was nobody in it. If it was not because it is
ugly stain the honor of a girl, we could suspect that the couple infatuation
had gone into the interior of the house.

Pisces, meanwhile, was the
sentinel walking along the street. And the case is not was he alone
who did. A man was stationed, since they had arrived in a doorway
where the shadows thickened. Stationary and protected by the dark,
not have heard of Pisces. Taking advantage of a moment he walked back
to the house the man came out of hiding and crept to her. He looked
down the corridor and hesitated a few seconds. This was what he lost.
When given the jump to fuck bars, the terrible Pisces had returned
and saw him. Two hops are planted below the corridor before the intruder
could ride on the rail, and with his famous cane, he downloaded clubbed
on the back so that the poor man dropped his hands and fell to the
ground. Wanted to repeat the fierce centaur, but the man stood up
and gave agility run so prodigious that the second I got clubbed to
the ground, and as for the third or even tried.

- Bad lightning!
- Roared Pisces.

This must have come roaring in the ears of his happy
friend, for a few seconds after riding over the railing and got out
nicely on the street.

- What? - Asked, approaching his Orestes.

-
A man.

- Where? - The seductive again asked eagerly, turning twice
around.

- I ran away. I caught him at the time of the runner up,
and threw the floor of a club ... Then he ran ... Bad lightning! Neither
Romero reached it at full speed.

- That Man - Pablito uttered silently
- it must be a boyfriend who had Valentina for some time ... What
would you do?

- Well if it was the boyfriend, unless it was to give
a stab, I do not know what was up.

Pablito his arm over his shoulder
at his friend, not to hold, although the hamstrings is a little bent,
but to say in a muffled voice:

- Do you think that?

- A ... or two,
or three ...

The beautiful young man was silent. After a moment he
asked:

- You know him?

- I do not, do you?

- I have not ever seen:
I just called Cosme, and is a barber.

Alejáronse in silence and quiet
street reached Belinchón house. There, goodbye, Pablito told his friend:

-
If I go back there (which I doubt), do me the favor of not losing
sight of the corridor, right?

- A dog place - only answered the indomitable
Pisces.

The next day was Sunday and was celebrated in the customary
dance schools all week. They danced in the afternoon, from three to
seven. The room was spacious, had built few years to school children.
These banks were piled on the platform for the teacher. The walls
were plastered with posters. The worshipers of Terpsichore, while
habanera dance languid, they were distracted by reading a portion
of invaluable tips are intended to demonstrate that virtue and work
are the true treasures child: The child study will receive the reward
of his application