 Or as a gallery of squares, whose images ...... No, Sir, no, replied the
traveler, nature is as nature. ? A what the hell you walk looking for those comparisons? For to
rejoice, 'said the secretary. If I do not want to recreate me, what I want you to teach, "said
the traveler. Tell me what senses are first quantos men of your globe. Nothing more than seventy-two,
he said the academic and everyday We complain about such a shortage, that our imagination is
dexa back our needs, and we believe that with our seventy-two senses, our annulled, and our
five moons do not have enough, and it is true that despite our great curiosity and passion that
of our seventy-two senses are daughters, we have plenty of time to get bored. Well what I think,
he said Micromegas, because on our globe we have about a thousand ways, and we still are not
that vague desires, not that concern, which constantly tells us that we are girl thing, and
that other beings much more perfect. I made a few voyages, and have seen other very inferior
to us mortals, and others who are far superior, but I have seen no with no more desires than
real needs, and more needs satisfaction. Perhaps a day will END a country where nothing is needed,
but I have not been told of this country. Then threw themselves to form conjectures on Saturnino
and Sirius, but after many no less ingenious reasoning uncertain, was forced to re-establish
facts. ? Quanto long live? he said the Syrian. Ha, very little, "replied the man from Saturn. The
same is true in our country, 'said the Syrian, we are always complaining about the shortness
of life. Must is that it is universal pension of nature. Alas! our lives, 'said the Saturnino
is five hundred revolutions of the sun movie (coming to be fifteen thousand years, or near, counting
as us.) You see that it is almost die so that one is born: it is our existence one point, a
moment our lives, our globe an atom, and each instruction is just beginning something, when
death snatches before experience. As for me I dare not any draft form, and I am like a drop of water
in the vast ocean, and what more sonroxo cause me in your presence, quan look ridiculous in
this figure do world. Micromegas answered her: If you were not a philosopher, would have, the
apprehension of desconsolaros, telling that is our life seven hundred times more extensive
than yours, but you well know that when has been to restore the body to the elements, and
revive differently Baxo nature that is what you call die, Quando is reached, say, this moment of
metamorphosis, it matters little have lived forever or one day alone, two is the same. I have
been in countries where people live a thousand times more than mine, and I saw that still complained,
but are everywhere sugetos of reason, who can resign, and give thanks to the author of nature,
which with a wonderful kind of uniformity has spread in the universe varieties with an endless
profusion. So par example, all people who think they are different, and they all look in the
gift of thinking and desire. Everywhere is the matter extensive, but each has different properties
globe. ? Qantas of these properties have your area? If you speak of the properties without the quale
we could not survive our globe as he is, he said the Saturnino, do not exceed three hundred,
to wit the extension, impenetrability, mobililad, gravity, divisibility, etc.. Without doubt,
replied the walker, which is sufficient for such a short number of breeder plan your intimate
room, and in all things I love his wisdom, because if all I see differences, also provides in
all proportions. Your globe is small, and so are its inhabitants, you have few feelings, and your subject
has a few properties: this is the disposal of Providence. ? Color is your sun well tested?
Very ashen white, 'said the Saturnino, and when we divide one of its rays, we find that has seven
colors. The strip our flesh, he said the Syrian, and we thirty-nine primary colors. In all
quanta have examined, I have not found a sun that looks like another, and not on your planet
is a face that no differs from all others.

After many queestiones analog, was reported to be different substances quantas Saturn knew, and was
answered that he had until about thirty, God, space, matter, people who feel large, extensive
beings who feel and think, people they think and are not widespread, which penetrate, and not
penetrate, and so on.

The Sirius world in which there are three hundred, and that he had discovered in his travels
up to three thousand, I leave necessarily extraordinary philosopher stunned to Saturn. Finally,
having communicated a quanto another almost all knew and did not know many things, and having
discoursed for space of an entire solar revolution, were determined to make a short journey
together philosophical.

CHAPTER III.

Journey of two people from Sirius and Saturn

They were to board our
two walkers in the atmosphere of Saturn with a very decent provision
of mathematical instruments, when the lady of Saturninus, who knew,
it came to make bitter complaints.

This was a very graceful brunette, who had no more than fifteen hundred
feet high, but repaired with the boy through his body. iha cruel!
exclaimed, I've resisted after fifteen hundred years, when I had just
given up, having no above last hundred years in your arms, go ime
abandoned by traveling with a giant another world!

Come on, you're not more than a curious, and have never been in love, that if you were Saturnino
legitimate, most constant serious. Where are you going? ? You want? less wandering is that you
our five moons, and less changeable our annulled. This is just, I want anymore. Philosopher embraced
her, weeping with her, as philosopher, and the lady, after having fainted, went to console with
a dude.

They cut our two curious and jumped first to nullify they found very flattened as you guessed
a famous inhabitant of our globule, and from there they went to moon in moon. A comet passing
close to the last, and threw him with his servants and instruments. Just had walked a hundred
and fifty million miles, they encountered satellites Jupiter. Alighted on this planet, where they stopped
a year, and learned very secret curious, which would have given to
the press, had it not been for the inquisitors propositions have found
something hard to swallow, but I managed to read the manuscript the
library of the Most Illustrious Archbishop of ... allowed me to register
their books, with all the generosity and kindness that characterize
such an illustrious prelate.

Let us return however to our walkers. Leaving Jupiter, passed through a space of about a hundred million
miles, and cost the planet Mars, the qual, as everyone knows, is five times smaller than our
globule, and they saw two moons that serve this planet, and have not our astronomers have discovered.
While the abbot was written in much Donayre Ximenez against the existence of these moons, but
I appeal to those run by analogy, all great philosophers who know very well that it will be
possible to live without two moons Mars at least, being so far from the sun. Anyway, they
seemed to our travelers thing girl, who feared not finding a comfortable
inn, and went forward as do two Quando walkers encounter poor sales
in the wilderness, and continue to the next village.

But then he repented the Syrian and his partner, who walked a long period without finding hostel.
After a little light descry, which was the land, which seemed very mean thing to people who had
come from Jupiter. However, rezelando repent again, were determined to land on it. They went
into the comet's tail, and finding an aurora borealis by hand, went inside and brought ashore
to the north shore of the Baltic Sea, five of July 1737.

CHAPTER IV.

That accounts of what happened on the globe of the earth.

Having rested a bit, had lunch two mountains that are then cooked his servants with much toilet.
Wanted to recognize the wretched country then where they were, and headed north to south. Each step
ordinary Sirius and his family was about thirty thousand feet of the king, followed him by far
the dwarf of Saturn, who lost his breath, because I had to take twelve steps while the other
leg stretched out, almost like a lapdog that is, if you will excuse
the comparison, a captain of the guards of the king of Prussia.

As they went in a hurry these foreigners, were seen around the globe in thirty-six hours: truth
is that the sun, or rather the earth, makes the same journey in one day, but we to repair something
that is easier to turn on its exe to anchor foot. They returned after the etab first place, having
seen the raft, almost imperceptible to them, they call the Mediterranean, and another pool boy
with big name around our den Oceano; the dwarf gave him water to half a leg, and barely had wet the other
heels.

Were and came up and abaxo, making quanto could be determined whether or not it was inhabited
this Balloon baxaronse, acostaronse, tempted by all parties, but was so disproportionate their
eyes and hands with the petty things that go dragging Baxo here, who had no more slight feeling
for where they might fall under suspicion of us and our brothers the other inhabitants of this
globe.

The dwarf, sometimes with some precipitation failed, he decided then that there was no living
on earth, and his first reason was that there had been none. Micromegas given to understand with
great civility, which was not founded consequeencia because, he said to him, with your eyes
so kids do not see some stars of Quinquagesima magnitude that I can distinguish very clearly. ?
Colegis why there is such a star?

If I have tempted all, 'said the dwarf. And if not you have felt what it is? he said the other.
If so bad collated this globe, "replied the dwarf, if it is so irregular, and a configuration
that seems so ridiculous that everyone is I imagine chaos. ? Not see these streams, which runs
any right, these ponds and are round or squares, or oval or any regular figure, all these bumps pointed
that this bristling, and I have entered on your feet? (And wanted to talk about the mountains).
? Do not you notice the way around the globe, flattened at the poles, and spinning around the
sun so confused direction, which by necessity climates of both poles have to be uneducated?
What forces me to believe that there is really living in, is that no one who had reason floor
would want. ? Who cares? Micromegas he said, may not have common sense people, but after it is
presumed that this has been done without any purpose. You say that you all here appears irregular because
everything is thrown into the line in Jupiter and Saturn. Well, for the same reason is perhaps
some confusion here. ? No I said that I had always noticed variety in my journeys? Replied the
Saturnino these reasons, and not completed the dispute, if the heat she had not broken the thread
of his Micromegas diamond necklace, and caidose these, that they were very nice bright, though
tiny and uneven, the thicker weighed four hundred pounds, and fifty the most petite. Some grabbed
the dwarf, and leaning saw the eyes as they were polished, microscopes were excellent: grabbed
as a kid microscope hundred and sixty feet in diameter, and was applied to one eye, while Micromegas
is served another two thousand and five hundred feet. At first they saw nothing with them,
since they were gifted, had to be put in the position that was required. After the inhabitants
of Saturn saw something bobbing imperceptible in midwater the Baltic Sea, and it was a whale, nicely
laid it over your finger and placing it in a thumb, she was taught to Sirius, the second time he laughed
at the huge smallness the inhabitants of our globe. Persuaded by that Saturnino was inhabited
our world he imagined then that it was just for whales, and as it was great discurridor, tried to
guess where the movement came to an atom so mean, and if I had ideas, will and free will.
Micromegas not know what to think, but having examined the animal patiently, bag of consideration
that he could not reside in the body as a soul boy. Inclinabanse for our two walkers to believe
that there is no reason in our room, when, with the aid of a microscope, package distinguish
other thicker than a whale in the Baltic Sea walked fluctuating. We know that by that time returned
from the polar circle, a flock of philosophers, who had gone to make observations that no one had
hitherto thought. They brought the papers public that their boat had capsized off the coast of
Bothnia, and they had a difficult time going out to rescue, but you never know in this world there
is to vnder rope. I I have naively the event, without removing or adding anything, effort
on the part of a historian is exceedingly meritorious.

CHAPTER V.

Experience and reasoning of both walkers.

Micromegas tended with great circumspection hand via the site of the object, and stretching
and shrinking fingers of fear of being wrong, and then opening them and closing them, I take
very mana the ship where they were these gentlemen, and placed on
a "not too tight, not estruxarle.

Lo here a very different animal from the other, 'said the dwarf of
Saturn and Sirius put the pretense animal in the palm of the hand.

The passengers and sailors tripulacioon, which is believed caught
by a storm, and thought they aground on a Baxi, are all in motion;
sailors caught barrels of wine, toss them at the hand of Micromegas,
and after they are thrown; seize the geometries of quarts circle,
their sectors, and Lapp, and alight on the fingers of Sirius: Finally
both were busy, they felt it shaking a thing that beetles in the fingers,
and it was a club with an iron tip nailed him a foot in the index
finger: the itching made him believe that the body had become something
The creature that I had on hand, but could not suspect anything at
first, as its microscope barely enough to distinguish a ship of a
whale could not make visible a entecillo as inconspicuous as a man.

I do not want censure of any vanity here, but please vainglorious people to stop the consideration here,
and consider that if ordinary height of a man five feet of the king, but do not lump in the
ground than in a ball ten feet in circumference did an animal that had a hundred avos thousand of an
inch high. Let us imagine a substance that could lead the globe terraquueeo in hand, and had bodies
similar to ours, and it is most likely that there many of these substances, and I gather that
is what the functions of war, we have won two or three small place that has since been restoring
force would think.

I have no doubt that if any captain of grenadiers shall read this book, have your troop put
hats two feet higher, but I warn you that, however you do, always will be the and his soldiers
about infinitely small.

iQue wonderful mana you need our philosopher had Sirius for managing to descry the atoms of which
I speak! Quando Hartsoeker Leuwenhoek and saw, or believed that Vian for the first time, the
seed of which we are formed, there was not nearly as amazing discovery. iQue Micromegas like
that of when he saw these razors wiggle, when examine all their movements, and continued its
operations! iCom cried! icon who retired extension cord to his partner of one of its microscopes journey!
I'm watching them, they said both together; behold as loaded as baxan and rise. So they said, and
they shook hands the joy of seeing objects as new, and the fear of losing sight. Saturnino
passing of a trust to the opposite end of credulity, it figures that he was busy watching in the
propagation. Ha, he said the Saturnino, I have caught nature "red-handed."

However Enganabanle appearances, and so very frequeentemente happens, when one uses and when
do not use microscopes.

CHAPTER VI.

From what I happened to men.

Very best observer Micromegas his dwarf, he saw clearly that the atoms were spoken, and it pointed
out to his partner, which with the embarrassment of having deceived about the article the generation,
unwilling to believe that such kind of bugs could communicate ideas. He had the gift of tongues
is not less than Sirius, and not hearing about our atoms, supposed who did not speak: then?
as the organs were to have a voice as subtle bodies, or that they had to say? To talk is essential
to consider and if thought, had something which was equivalent to the soul: and attribute something
equivalent to a kind soul so base, is to much nonsense. The Syrian told him:? For You thought
not, little does, which were falling in love? ?

Do you think to love one without thinking, without saying a word,
or at least not make themselves understood? , Or suppose it is easiest
thing to a child a syllogism?

My one and one I seem impenetrable mysteries.

I dare ya, 'said the dwarf, to believe or deny any thing, try to look these insects, and runs
later. iQue my place! Micromegas answered, and drawing a tixeras, trim her nails, and short of what
one of her thumb made the point a kind of big horn, like a huge funnel, and put the fee at an
ear, the circumference funnel took the ship and all its crew, and the weakest voice in the fibers
were introduced circular one, so that, through their industry, the philosopher of heard up there well
the buzz of our insects abaxo here, and within hours was able to distinguish words, and understanding
after the French. So did the dwarf, but not so easily. Spot grew the astonishment of the two travelers,
on hearing about quite a few mites reason, and this game seemed inexplicable nature. Well it goes
that he was dying the dwarf and Syrian desire to engage in conversation with the atoms, but the dwarf
is feared his thunderous voice, and even more of Micromegas, thundered to the mites without being overheard.
They tried, as to diminish its force, and it got a toothpick in his mouth very tiny, very sharp
as he was going to stop next to the ship. He put the dwarf on the Syrian his knees and one
on top of a ship with the crew; Baxo head and spoke very quietly, and after all these precautions
and many more, said the following: Invisible bugs the right hand of the Creator is pleased to
produce in the abyss of the infinitely small, I manifest myself worthy bless because impenetrable
secrets. Perhaps no one is worthy of yourselves in my court, but I despise anyone, and I give
you my protection.