 Rose,
shut himself up in the room that it had prepared. The greatest silence Ordenose not bother to
His Majesty, who would not take more than a boiled egg and a little chocolate clear. Called
water ice, but this could not please. He stood alone, and soon he called for him to carry a
band and a little fat to be worn on the forehead. A those who had accompanied him came to
give what he asked, and then lay down His Royal Majesty and turned off the light. For two hours
the most profound silence reigned, and the priest walked on all fours almost not to make noise
that could disturb the sleep of the first of the rebels. But suddenly rang through the streets
of Elizondo crash of cavalry came many horsemen's house parish priest and the chief got out of
them entered the house without asking permission or ignore the priest, who came to ask chirping
and puffing as irreverent account of noise. Despite this, the quality of character required to
pass word to His Majesty. They did so and the Sovereign entered at the time commanded Zumalacárregui.
King's voice was heard saying:

- Bring a light.

Zumalacárregui was in the hallway, beret in hand.

- Come light - said, taking her hands of the priest that she had been hurried.

It was a candle, not very gallantly put it on a candlestick made of clay. Zumalacárregui approached
and entered the dark room. His Majesty was built into the bed. Even wore the band. The general
moved slowly, with respect and shyness. Reached out to the limelight.

The light shone full on his countenance D. Carlos, in which there
shone no flash even slight spark of intelligence.

With the band, the pale, shaved his mustache (due to Travel costume), but it was a stupid face
was very close. Zumalacárregui said voice choked with emotion: - "Lord": and bowed. He looked
like a pine tree that bends.

- Come - King said extending his hand.

The general left the limelight of clay on the table, and going to bed knelt ground. He was still
shaken. The King received with joy that could not be defined, that first paying tribute to
his recent Majesty for the most illustrious and most powerful of
his vassals.

Zumalacárregui then lit the candle that had brought it off was in
real stay.

The two lights, although greater clarity, made more dismal the dismantled
enclosure.

The King and the general spoke.

Meanwhile two men in a secluded and narrow room on the ground floor
of the rectory were, entertained the insomnia talking about the event
that motivated so much noise and inputs and outputs extremes of people.

-
Who's out there that makes so much noise? - Navarro asked his brother.

-
It's not something that should stay up because neither you nor I want.

Sleeps tonight the parsonage a crazy bastard will pass.

- Where now?

... And what is your hobby?

- The most bizarre and crazy that you can imagine. Has come to believe and claim to be King Spain.

-
Who leads?

- Others as crazy as him.

- That can not be - Navarro said quickly
- because the crazies do not lead to crazy .... Someone will be right
between them.

That evening the old priest had spoken of the likely entry of D. Carlos in Baztán and the approach
of troops and Eraso Zumalacárregui to protect the entrance of the
King and make the first honors.

Looking back, Navarro said with some excitement that dazzled their lost eyes.

- This noise, this coming and going, the horse stepped on, can not be anything more than the
input of His Majesty, and as I came here with my army to wait, confer
with him and receive royal orders, when I get dressed and go, because
he ought not to wait our Lord.

He fell out of bed, and not a little labor cost Salvador arrest. Using ingenious arguments, and
sometimes by force, could calm driven crazy by repeating what the
crazy.

- His Majesty not come yet - he said -. I swear by the name
you bear that will be the first know your arrival.

Navarro was asleep
shortly after, and in his feverish dream was to His Majesty, paid
tribute litigation; heard his orders, he took with him to the theater
of war. Upon awakening, its decay was as great as if he had to win
battles and walking thirty horse tirelessly all Navarra