 So much more to thank and to estimate, therefore, the rare exception I had done
and Ines Beatriz.

All seated on the floor again, the favorite poet of the Countess,
who call Arthur gave Inesita conversation without also would stop
talking to her other suitors.

Don Braulio, although shocked and suspicious and start to become famous by his wife, spoke to more
serious and Machucha gentlemen.

Doña Beatriz and the Countess of San Teódulo spoke at length with each other and whispered,
remembering their old friendship.

A few minutes later the Countess of Dona Beatriz had demanded the
re-apear treatment the re-tutear as she remembered that back in the
village had familiarly.

Why refuse to so great kindness? The two friends tutearon in effect. And remember the reader
hearty villager was Rosita. Condesa was the same with those who deserved it.

- I can not understand - said Beatriz - how could you know so many people and then so many years.

-
My daughter - answered the Countess -, I will have limited understanding, but I have lots of memory
and, above all, lots of good will to those whom I cherish. We have recognized hundred thousand
people without history, without being prevented, without notice to you were you among them.
Also, what merit is there in me? Who sees you when you can not forget.

- Thank you, thank you confuse me with your praise indulgent and generous.

- I speak the truth. And then you have not changed in the face. Your body is another, you've
unwrapped, embarnecido you have something, you made a beautiful woman.

Praxiteles would you have taken as a model. These garments are no
doubt others of you today.

When we tried in the place you were a child. I saw fresh and tender then the bud, now I see
the rose, which has made all the luxury its lush aromatic corolla. But I repeat, face, expression,
looking ... nothing this has changed. When you talk you look like a married woman ... but
quietly ... look a girl, more candid ... more innocent than your
sister, who is also very cute.

- Anyway ... is unique ... no history
... not knowing I was in Madrid ...

- No, it does not.

I do not like to brag about what I should not.

I have recently learned that were in Madrid.

If I had known before I had gone to see your home.

- Who knows me? Who could tell you about me? My husband is a poor employee ...

- Will you say, but his intelligence and diligence are delighted the
Minister and full of envy to all staff of the Secretariat.

The Minister did not do more than talk your husband.

And what's with you, but you live so withdrawn, speak and many since,
few nights have you seen in these gardens.

- It is possible, women!

Want to make fun of me?

- Tired know you do not mock me.

- Do not
laugh because you're good, but you want to tease me.

It is true that I came here a few nights have, but nobody knew me.

- Then I knew and admired you.

Someone who is proudly weary of discontented, difficult, was so enchanted that I followed.

Doña Beatriz blushed again.

- How do you know? - Said.

- The told me.

- Who?

- Do you want to regale the ear? The Count of Alhedín, elegant flower, the most handsome of
our chickens.

- It would be my sister.

- That I have not said word count. It has simply say that I followed,
and made me the most brilliant of you praise. Ensure you have never
seen two women more beautiful and aristocratic in nature. Before coming
to me was the Count took reports, and I I do not know how the hell
had written that, despite your precipitate flight in a stingy, I already
knew how you called, where you lived, who you were, who was your husband,
and a thousand other things. It is clear that to tell me I realized
that you were the girls that had so I wanted in place, and entered
into a desire to see you again. If I tell you frankly, I've only been
here tonight to see if I was. I have people at home: a circle of friends.
There I ahead, and my husband is with them. Anyway, thank God that
I have found. Well supposed I you had to come because it is Sunday
night, when your husband does not have chores. The other night was
crazy what they did, believing that nobody would notice. Come alone
... two girls ... exposing the persecution of any uneducated fool!
... Not all are the cream of courtesy. Not all are like the Count
of Alhedín, which can distinguish to escape who has to deal with.

-
You are right - said Beatriz -, was a blunder, it was unwise to what
we did the other night