 Began a walk
down the hall, seized with a restlessness so sweet that it hurt. It seemed that transmigrate
his being suddenly of an angel, that his spirit was served an ineffable mystery and August.
Pulses rushing him laugh and mourn at the same time. He was in the situation of an outcast who
suddenly restore the bosom of his country and his family. Needed make efforts on himself for
not jumping, not to scream and laugh as an oxygenate.

I was so distracted, she did not hear the sound of the door of his
cabinet when opened, or not the footsteps of a person who traveled
through it to reach the same corridor.

- Good evening, sir, excuse
- a familiar voice said.

- Who?

... Ah ... Are you, sir? How can we not have a beacon?

- No need. The night is beautiful. Undoubtedly, this corridor is a big deal.

They shook hands, and the trial judge, who was a man of about forty
years, open and friendly face, he leaned against the railing of the
corridor and put his hands on it.

- You will be missed - he said
with affected indifference - to see me here at this hour ... Phs!

... There is a complaint in court ... Nothing ... I suppose it's nothing between two dishes. But
as you know all these things justice take so formal ... Then the audience do not let a rat,
everything has to be to spearhead ... In short, I feel the need to stop you ... I suppose
it's for a short time ... a formality; but we must comply ... I have not wanted to send the
sheriff you know? not to scare you, because the thing is not worth it. I come in person to reassure
... Do not worry you then, that detention does not matter, and come with me. In this way and this
time no one will know.

- A complaint?

... What are you accusing?

- It seems that is the subject of the escape of the girl Osuna ... Do not be frightened.

- It scared me, sir. I am willing to follow him instantly ... If you allow me, kindle the lamp to
take off my shoes and put my shoes ...

- Anything you want, sir excuse - was quick to say .-- Can you take the time you like and send
to jail those who has the appropriate effect.

The priest took out a match and began to light the lamp. The judge was stunned. Instead of the
pale and broken I thought finding, observed the physiognomy peaceful and happy than I had ever seen
in your life. In looking to the toilet at him, after firing, so pure
joy shone as if it came to news had made a bishop.

The judge stepped back and stared him suspiciously. But be said at once seeing the perfect
calm with which he made all the preparations. Packed some clothes in a suitcase, put on his shoes,
his cassock and hat and smiling, said:

- I'm ready.

The priests did not take much to fix it, right? ... A Ms. Josefa not tell nothing to prevent a
sad scene, do not you think? I write from prison, asking clothing.

Approved the judge what he said, and both took the stairs and out into the street as two friends.
During the journey, the young priest showed signs of a verbosity
and joy that was time is not observed in him.

Went to prison, the judge chose the least bad room and, after leaving installed, fired with growing
surprise that there remained so serene and smiling at home.

Came out strongly impressed by the prison.

While walking down the street from the top quadrant, his mind was
spinning seeking to explain this extraordinary behavior.

Mr trial judge was far from suspecting that, upon entering prison,
Peñascosa the toilets had just emerged from the dungeons of skepticism.

XIV

Keep
ceremony, gentlemen! 

Huji voice, imperative, loud, could not quell
the laughter and the murmur of concurrent