 And die as satisfied as if jartura the
world die of you know, as has happen to me tomorrow. Believe me, son, the less burden cravings
out of this life is more passable the path of another. Some mine Jalla digging in a corner of
his garden, and some people does not give her half the land stirring Christendom. Now, you tell
me who is more fortunate of the two and more worthy of envy ... Gravel! and go on with the story,
as I give leave for the atajaderos. Where we stayed with her? What else do you want to know?

-
For the moment - I replied, astonished at his former vivacity of
imagination and freedom of "Peak", which seemed incompatible with
the condition that you had - if the landscape widens beyond the gap
where the river seeps.

- On the contrary - he answered -: as you
bend the corner, the peaks again encalabrinar beside the river, as
soon as one side to another, if not both at once.

Widths of them are not even the royal road: half day of shooting, water down a horse good feet,
a walk, speak, and short ... In front of that gap have that other of the right hand, which gets
a strip that will end in a point in there.

Do you see? at the foot of the mountain above stained green. As for the alleys is choice but to
go climbing up the brambles ... In short, man, get that in every shatters you see a mountain of
them, there is a path where these people go through the portal as of the church and walk and take
the air and please the eye and healthy unemployed men chest, like you. You'll see, piece of
junk! and see what is good.

- I hope so - I answered untruthfully than I thought -. And tell you - I added pointing at the same time
with your finger there - what does that green spot in which I I had noticed before you mentioned
it to me?

- Oh! - Contestóme raising both arms at once - that's the richness of the place, friend! That is the
"Prao-Council" here, because there are other people who have theirs appropriate, but not like
ours. Quia! Pispajo as you want!

Is every one of these neighbors: a wealth of grass that is shared "by adra" every year. You'll
see, you'll see what pilgrimage is assembled on the day of harvest, if you take here the first
arriving in August ...

- But how in the world - asked truly amazed at what my uncle told
me - is can mow in that ravine, and down into the valley what it is
mow, much less climb there to mow and pick it up?
