 Do you accept ...?

Luna agreed, imposing their will on Stephen when he tried to protest saying their lack health.
Just do the surveillance for the duration of the summer.

In addition, there were two pesetas a day, almost more than it earned the Wooden Staff. Household
income going to bend, and it was not to lose such a good opportunity.

At night, Sagrario spoke to his uncle, admiring the energy that drove him to accept all work to avoid
being burdensome to the family.

Were in the cloister, supported by the balustrade. Below, the dark garden with its plumes black,
wavy, above, a summer sky, vanished by the warm mist that clouded
the brightness of the stars.

They were alone in the quadruple gallery. The lighted window of the closet chapel master drew
a red box on the roof opposite. The organ sounded with a melancholy slow, silent and passed
and repassed by the red box shadow musician, with her nervous movements, which, magnified by the reflection,
became grimaces grotesque.

The quiet and dark night wrapped in sweet caress Gabriel and Tabernacle. Descending from above
the mysterious freshness that seems to revive the spirit and larger memories. The church was
to them as a huge beast and sleeping, in whose lap were quiet and defense.

Gabriel talked about the past, to convince the young that anything worth its work in cathedral.
He had suffered greatly. There was no bitterness that had not tasted.

Had hungry, very hungry, in his travels around the world.

Do not know what was more painful, if martyrdom in the castle dungeon or dark days of despair
in the streets crowded populations, seeing the food and gold behind the glass of the windows,
surrounded feeling of luxury and turned his head dizzy with hunger. I could still tolerate their
misery when he walked alone through selfishness to ferocious civilization.

The horrible times had been wandering to share their poverty with Lucy, the sweet and melancholy
companion.

And Gabriel talked about the English as a dead sister.

- The'd loved, Sagrario, to meet her. It was the strong woman, courageous companion, together
to me by the community of thoughts than by the attraction of the flesh. I loved her from I
met her. I do not know if what we felt was love. Poets have lied so much about love have misrepresented
thereby, exaggerating, that certainly no longer know what it is.

And the girl talked of love, explaining it according to their beliefs.

It was an "elective affinity"; Goethe had defined it, overcoming a wise poet, taking the phrase
in chemistry that gives this name to the tendency of two bodies to merge forming a new distinct
product. Two people among whom there is no affinity could be found, by false laws of life continuous
contact, however, empathize, not confused. This was the most of the time between individuals of
different sex who inhabit the earth. Rub together, but not interpenetrate and overlap. There is
sentimentality passenger, carnal whim, never love. Lucy, the sick woman was being akin to theirs:
they saw and loved. Commiseration by human misery, hatred, inequality and injustice, devotion
to the humble and the unfortunate, were equal in both. Not only were joined at the heart: their
brains kissing.

It was ugly, ugly with a sweet and sad that Luna seemed to the supreme ideal of beauty in a world
of losers and victims. It was the image of women raised in the Village slums of the working
class neighborhoods in large cities: anemic by the noxious air of den where he was born, poor
feeding and poor, with the body emaciated, paralyzed in its development thanks to the rough feminine
work in the middle childhood. Lips, that great ladies were painted red, she had violet. All
beautiful of his face were the eyes, the windows of tears, enlarged by the last cold nights
on the street, by the horror of the scenes witnessed in childhood, when his father got drunk, brutalizing
the desire of the worker who wants to forget, then to imagine a paradise
in the tavern, rage against the misery of his home and family clubbing.

-
It was like you are all females born down, Sagrario.

Your beauty takes a moment holds only in the very outbreak of the youth. The female can not
be poor beautiful if not flee from his class. Hunger and work are enemies of beauty. The work
daily makes it lose its freshness and strength. Motherhood in such misery will absorb up bone marrow.
And when all was done, he returns home, sweeps, washes and eat like a mummy with the smoky stove
in the kitchen. I loved Lucy for this, because was consumed and exhausted by the operation,
because the Virgin was working in all its melancholy decline, born beautiful and spoiled by social
injustice.

She remembered the cold and unyielding anger that little woman, who spoke quietly the ultimate
revenge of the fallen, the revenge for centuries of oppression. Showed himself more radical
and ferocious in their illusions Gabriel, and he praised his daring
as a propagandist, their dangerous trips to the big cities, police
on guard, leading arm old hat box full of paper that could lead to
jail.

Was The spirited miss the evangelical propaganda travels the globe spreading cold Bibles smile
without fear of ridicule of the civilized and the savage brutality, but As Lucy excitations
were distributed to revolt, and not looking to happy, but the desperate, in factories and in
the suburbs become infected. The two were hungry; viéronse separated by the prosecution and
imprisonment, but returned to join, continuing the novel would, until the consumption poverty
and end it.

Gabriel cried recalling his last interviews in a hospital in Italy, clean and neat, icy environment
with that of charity.

Since it was not her husband could only visit twice per week. Appeared ragged and head down,
and saw her in a chair, becoming paler and skinny, with a transparent wax and strangely enlarged
eyes. He knew a little all, and is not hiding the seriousness of his illness. Expected quiet
death. "Bring me roses' Gabriel said, smiling as if at the last moment of his life would commune
with natural beauty of a world disfigured and darkened by men.

And the companion remained dry bread, implore the help of comrades less poor than himself,
slept in the open, for take in the immediate visit a bouquet of flowers.

- Died, Sagrario - moaned Luna -.

I do not know where she was buried: perhaps serve for a lesson in the anatomy room, fell into
the grave, as those soldiers whose heroism is in the dark. But I still see, I have followed all
my misfortunes, it seems now resurfaces in you .-- But, uncle - said softly Tabernacle, moved by
the story, I can not do what she, I am a miserable, worthless and will.

- Call me Gabriel - "Luna said with vehemence -. You are my old Lucy, who once again comes to my
way. Know it all at once, long ago examined my feelings, I analyze my will and I have one certainty:
I love you, Sagrario.

She made a surprise move, away from him.

- Do not separate yourself, do not fear me. Neither I am a man, or you're already a woman. You
have suffered greatly, you say goodbye to the joys of the earth, you're strong by misfortune
and you can watch face to face the truth.

We are two castaways of life: we can only wait and die on the island that serves as a refuge.
We are undone, torn and wraps: death incubated our guts, we are fallen and reports rags having been
through the gears of an absurd society. For this I want, because you are like me in disgrace.
Affinity elective unites us.

Poor Lucy was weakened by the farm workers, poisoned from birth by poverty, you're the daughter
of the people outside the home attracted by the charm welfare of the privileged, seduced, not by
love but by the whim of the happy, the maid brought in sacrifice to the Minotaur, whose remains are
dumped after a manure pit. I love you, Sagrario; are two fugitives from society that must make
their way together, to me I hate to dangerous to despise thee unclean: the misfortune drives
us. Our bodies are poisoned, we carry the wounds of the vanquished, but before dying rejoice our
lives with love, ask roses, like poor Lucy.

And shaking hands with the girl, who, stunned by the words of Gabriel, not knowing what say and
cried softly. Up on the top floor of the Claverias, still playing the organ teacher. Luna knew that
music. It was the last cry of Beethoven, the 'need' who sang the genius to death with a melancholy
that caused chills.

- I love you, Sagrario - continued Gabriel -. Since I saw you go home, braving the value resigned
from the victim's odious curiosity of the people, I became interested
in you.

I spent weeks and months with your machine to see how it worked. I studied, I read you. You are
a simple; Your soul has the folds and recesses of these things the
complicated and tortuous wickedness of civilization.

Guessed day by day in your look fresh in the care with which I listened, the gratitude for what
little I did in your favor. Remembered the black period of your life, slavery of the flesh of men
crazed by the heat bestial sex, and to me always sweet to you, protecting you against the wrath
of the father and curiosity people, your appreciation has been growing and growing, and today
I love, Sagrario. Yourself you do not realize it, do not know to explain it, but your being for the
mine as the bodies I was talking about chemicals. I love you too, as once loved to poor Lucy.
The unique and eternal love is a lying invention of poets, which often mock the facts. Several people
can love with equal enthusiasm. It is essential that there affinity. You, who once loved a
man to madness, what do you do for me? Have I not deceived?

Do I really want ...?

Sagrario was still crying, with her head bowed, as if he dared to look at Luna. He's urged sweetly.
Gabriel had to call, talk to you, are not these fellow sufferers?

-
I have murmured the young shame ...-- -.

Troubles me so much joy .... Yes, I want you ... no ... I love you, Gabriel. I never would have
confessed, had died before revealing this secret. Who am I to love me? I have not I look in the
mirror, remembering not to mourn my lost youth .... And then, my story, my horrible story. How could
figure out that you ... I say that you, would read as clearly in my mind? See how I tremble,
it is printing, not yet happened, the shock of seeing discovered
my secret.

A man like you down to me, ugly and ill forever ...! No, I do not speak the other. I forgot
a long time; How can I remember now that I do the charity of your affection? No, Gabriel, you are
the larger and more good men. I look like a god.

They were silent a long while, holding hands, looking at the dark, murmuring garden. Up went
the lament of genius to life is extinguished.

Sagrario relied on Gabriel as if he lacks the forces, and fearful to happiness I would like to
take refuge in him.

- How late you know! - Said quietly -. Wanted love in his youth, being only beautiful and healthy
for you, have the beauty and the charms of a lady to sweeten the rest of your life. My thanks
nothing to offer. I'm horrible: I carry in my heart death, which slowly consumes me. The poison
is touching me .... Gabriel, why you notice me?

- Because I am a sick, miserable as you.

Our misery is the loving affinity .... Also, I've never loved like other men. I've seen in my
travels the most beautiful women the world, without feeling the slightest frisson of desire.
I'm not a loving temperament. My further adventures in Paris, when young, always left with a
feeling of disgust. The I love the unfortunate master, to the point of dulling my senses. I'm
like the drunk and the player, who, obsessed with his hobby, nothing feel to the woman. The
scholar, immersed in books, experiences very weak sex calls. My passion is pity for the disinherited,
the hatred of injustice and inequality. I absorbed so force, thereby overwhelms my ability,
I've never had time to think about love. The female does not seduce me. I love when I see women
unhappy and sad. Ugliness impresses me more than beauty, because I talk about the social outrages
gives me the bitterness unjust, the only wine which revives my soul. I loved Lucy because she was
unhappy and was to die, I love you, Tabernacle, for thou art in his youth, an outcast of life,
which one may want. My love for you to brighten up what remains in
existence.

Sagrario was pressed against his chest Gabriel.

- How good you are - sigh -. What a beautiful soul!

- As is yours, poor tabernacle. Your life has been a hoax. You go to sell your body hunger and despair,
as are the daughters of the poor. You thought finding bread false simulacra of love, as they
do every day on earth hundreds of thousands daughters of the proletariat. Everything is for the privileged
of the world: the arms of the father and sex of the child. And when the arms are weak or the
body loses its youthful charms, is cast aside and replaced. The market is rich .... I love you for
your misfortune. Maybe see you young and beautiful, as in other times you looked, there was no
sense slightest attraction. Beauty is a barrier to the feeling. The Tabernacle of another era
with her dreams of being a great lady, flattered by the words of
handsome young men dressed colors like bright birds, there is no fixed
at a homeless aged by poverty, ugly and sick.

We know because we are unhappy. The misery we can see our souls in the middle that we would never
have encountered.

- It's true - she murmured, resting his head on Gabriel's shoulder -. I love misery that allows
us to know.

- You'll be my partner - continued Luna with sweet intonation -.

Our lives will march together until death breaks her embrace. I will defend you, but of little
use the help of a ill pursued by men. You sweeten my life with your love. We will love as those
saints of the Church who burst into raptures sweet words and shocking, without dare the slightest
touch of the flesh.

Love is the instinct of conservation of the species but ours will be incomplete, not hate, like
the saints, the laws of Nature but because the struggles of life would have been mortally wounded.
I am not a man diseases of poverty and the ferocity of my peers have
broken my body.

Just if I sustain my life and I can give it to another being. You carry the poison in the blood
of a civilization flawed. A child of thy bowels would be a miserable freak with decayed bones
and veins full of rot. Not raise such monsters with physical misery of the downtrodden. Let the
privileged promote its decline with the offspring of his vices.

His arm around the girl's waist and lifted his other hand to his head,
fixing his eyes Sagrario in which shone the light of the stars with
the glow of the aqueous tears.

- We will be two souls, two thoughts
to be cherished without a trace of his passion, pure as the poets
ever imagined.

This night we confess each other that our souls are opened to each
other, is the night of our wedding ... Kiss me companion of my life!

And in the silence of the cloister they kissed silently, at length,
as if their mouths wept together the misery of their past and the
brevity of love around which was about death.

Above, the lament of Beethoven continued to develop its inflections
painful, spreading the bowels of the cathedral asleep.

Gabriel stood holding tabernacle was put back as faint with emotion.

He looked at the area with a priestly gravity as he spoke softly into the ear of the young:

- Our life is like one of those abandoned gardens, where the fallen
trees and branches sprout new foliage dry .... Companion, let us love.

Do that on our misery arising pariahs spring. Spring will be a sad and fruitless, but will have
flowers. The sun out for those who are high, for us, sweet companion, is far, but in the black
bottom of our well, let us embrace, irgamos head, and since we do not revived its heat, let us adore
him as a distant star.

In early July, Gabriel took the night watch of the cathedral.

Down to the dusk to the cloister, and in front of another guard uníase Muffin, a sickly looking
man, who was coughing so much like Luna and did not leave the blanket in summer.

- Well, the bulls! - Ringer said, shaking his keys.

And after the two men entered the temple, closed the doors on the outside, away.

Corno the days were long, there were still two hours of light when the guards entered the cathedral.

-
The whole church is for us, mate - said the other guard.

And as a man accustomed to look stunning Cathedral abandoned, it would
get in the sacristy as if it were his home, opening the basket dinner
on the drawers and aligning edible between candles and crucifixes.

Gabriel wandered through the temple. After several days of confinement had not been damped it
gave him the impression that he first saw the lonely church closed. His steps resounded on
the pavement, cut at intervals by the tombs of prelates and nobles of other centuries. The dead
silence of the temple was altered with strange sounds and scratches mysterious. The first day,
Gabriel turned his head several times with alarm, believing that steps sounded behind him.
Outside the temple still sunny. Shone the color wheels of the great
cover rosette like a bowl of bright flowers. Down between the pillars,
the light seemed to flatten with the shade. Descended bats, and their
wings were ground down holes vaulting. Screamed between the columns,
as if hovering in a forest of stone. In its blind impulse, clashed
with the strings of lights or did wobble the red Capelos dusty and
frayed tassel that hung high above the tombs of the cardinals.

Gabriel
made his rounds throughout the church. Pushing the gates of the altar
to convince they were tightly closed, he played the Mozarabic chapel
doors and Kings, missed out of the Chapter House and stopped at the
Virgen del Sagrario. Through grille lamps were burning, and high the
image loaded with jewels. After This test was in search of his comrade,
and both sat on the cruise, on the steps of choir or altar. From there
he covered the entire temple of a glance.

The two guards began to
pull down their caps.

- You will be recommended - Gabriel told the
partner - that is respectful to the temple: if you want to take a
cigarette will go to the gallery of the Locum, that if you want to
get into dinner the sacristy. The same was told to me when I entered
the cathedral service. Remarks people who are left to sleep in their
homes, very quiet. The important thing here is to monitor much, and
out of this, everyone can do what he pleases for the night .... At
this time God and the saints sleep. Something has to rest after a
day on hearing prayers and hymns, receiving ardiéndoles incense and
candles near the face. We we watch her sleep, and what the devil!,
not disrespect them if we allow some freedom