 

Júzgese the strangeness of the apparition and of the scene: Paulita, lying, with symptoms of a serious
accident, Lazarus, haggard and confused many gold coins, unknown in that house, strewn with abandon
on the floor, and the two harpies at the door, looking as two spectra.

The first object that attracted the eyes of the gold was scattered Salome, his first move was
cast on him and began to collect coins, kneeling on the floor. Peace looked at Lazarus became
livid with fear, looked to the devout, was enraged, took a few steps, and regaining the majesty of
his character, asked:

- What is this?

- Lady - Lazarus said, trying to control their situation, - a sad
event ... Doña Paulita is very sick ... He has been an accident.

We were talking .... What conflict!

Now , right now has fallen.

- But that money ...?-- Paz said.

-
It's yours.

- You! - Said the hag with greed.

Turning to Salome, who collected the gold, said:

- Give it, give
it to me, I have to save it.

- I'll keep it.

- "But where she got
that money? - Said the other.

I had long ago said Lazarus, trying, while dealing with the Porrenos gold, providing some relief
to the poor invalid.

Peace, on his knees, picked up coins, Salome, knees, picked up too, but the thick, with heavy
hand, not even in haste to the nerve, which was lighter and picked up two pieces as her aunt caught
one. Salome looked like a crazy. The Left Hand of Peace, when he received the right one ounce
or doubloon new, closed, clenching his fingers and holding robust on gold with the determination
and adjustment of a machine. At the end were disappearing land the golden pieces. There were
four, three, two, had one. The hands of both of Porrenos brutal promptly threw on the last,
and fell over one another, flattening there each other in repeated blows. The two looked ruins: it
seems that they wanted to swallow each other. Which of the two characters would beat the other?
Peace was swollen with anger, pride, was livid, apoplectic. Salome was yellow and breathless
with resentment, envy and anxiety. Its lips parted, showing the very fine white teeth, as if
to instill fear his opponent with that weapon. The two were on their knees and supported on
the hands, and that attitude, something similar to that of the Sphinx, the two harpies, revealing with
untimely force their passions found, they were like wild beasts. After a moment of silence
that all human envy forces were measured at a glance with all the forces Pride, the panther said
to the seal:

- This is mine!

- Yours! What, fool? This is mine: it was my father ... I know that I had saved somewhere, but I did
not know where he was.

- Vanity - Salome said, advancing an arm and a leg .-- You have plunged
us into poverty; you had hidden the money.

What a disgrace!

- Hypocrite - Peace cried back, - out of my presence. Give me that money, not us steal again.
This is mine.

- Was my father I inherited. What hast thou to do with it? Give me the money.

Salome Peace he saw around him. He raised his right arm and shook his hand against powerful push
his niece's face, giving him a slap so hard that she fell to the ground as if struck by a club.
But he stood on his legs, he emptied the coins in his pocket he had in hand, retreated a bit,
as carnivores when they go to jump, and rushed her aunt. Before it could defend itself, the ten
fingers pointed as his steely contrary were on his face, as if they
had stuck a hook on each phalanx.

Stuck nails frenzy in the fleshy cheeks and then pulled, leaving eight bloody furrows August
in the face of the vanity. It launched a cry of pain. Lazarus had to intervene and lift the
ground while Paz, picked up the nervous all left rival currencies fall in battle, was wrapped
in a blanket with convulsive readiness, and tightening their pocket ran from the room, took
the stairs, fell for her and fled.

Lazarus no longer wanted to attend the scene. Vomited old anger against him, said the biggest insults,
called him a coward, sending him to pursue his niece. The young I
could not resist any longer the horror that inspired this cursed house.
He looked to the devout, which was still no movement, and distressed
by the misfortune of unparalleled woman so unhappy left the house.

CHAPTER
XLIII

# Conclusion. #

Lazarus eager to see his uncle that morning,
went to the house of Abbe Carrascosa, and found there another scene
of desolation