 She, who did not respect anything in the world, respected
the clerk for a natural feeling acquired from the cradle and, if you will, suckled with milk. Father
offered a chair and a Brother who accompanied Fr.

- No, I'm sorry - Gracian raspy voice said, waving his shovel hat, as if an amount to cutting off
heads -, we will soon. I do not come here as the father Carantoña make and receive chocolate puddings,
I come to throw a fruitful seed in this wasteland; I come to throw a word in this desert,
with hope of ever being heard .... I am interested in you because you are sinners. The healthy
do not need a doctor, the leper himself. I met Mrs. D. Nazaria at home Peter King, and I knew
their evil way. Lopez met home of D. Very happy, and I knew their error. Well, here I come today
with the same purpose brought me last week I come to say: "Home, home, house, who are losing
your soul and giving bad example. " I am a missionary of Christ, an apostle of Gentiles, and
I see no need to go to Asia or Africa to find wild. Those are better than you, because they are born
blind, and you, you were born with sight, close your eyes to light. Your illicit union is a
mortal sin for you and a scandal to the faithful. Marry, souls of fellow, and live as God commands
and society wants.

In the face of the Peppers seemed to range battling anger and respect,
and disturbed language and apologized:

- Well, I know .... Wow, what
a trumpet Father ..

I'm not deaf .... I am well aware that His Reverence speaks with reason. But I'm going to separate
tables, I disown Tables, which is a bum, which is eating me what I earn and what I inherited
from my late.

- It separates, for the Blessed Virgin - Gracian said more soft modes -. If he is a drunk,
lazy and a rake, go enhoramala. Yesterday I heated the ears at home Mr. Butcher. But he did not
want to break this illicit union, but marriage. Has good background.

Decide one thing or another, are full of sins, live like beasts, not as Christians.

- Father, for God's sake - said Nazaria terrified by the words of the cleric -. I'm not hot head.
I am this afternoon that if I come to the fire, burn. The evil that I suffer ....

- Yes, I know you suffer an intolerable evil. But what comes from this bad? Comes from thy base
vices, first gluttony, anger and other field after and deplorable sins. Then do not want to stick
to the medicine nor the opinion of knowledgeable physicists, but you give superstition. Know
that it is an offense against God and the saints believe that Palitroques passed by the feet
of an image cure diseases, and rosemary stew to the beat a creed serves to make good kilo. Error,
silliness, irreverence, sacrilege! ... I do not see in this house rather than desecration
scandal - said angrily, his eyes and looking stirring the pictures that lined the walls -. What
do these portraits of bullfighters confused with the most venerable saints? What are these crutches
and those stocks, flags and goads, and as a flag placed in the way of an offering at the foot
of the Blessed Virgin?

"And that bull's head hanging on every horn has an Infant Jesus of icing? ... Women's scandalous
up in the decorations of this house is called the desecration prevailing
here, the scandal and vice.

- This was my husband's house - he said
lifting his nose Nazaria provocative, where he entered a air jet snort
sounded forge.

- Well also be your husband - Gracian said, making
a gesture of mockery -.

Feelings people of this house are revealed even in the slightest. As if to deal all that is objectionable
here, what would you say, Mr. Nazario, what would the barbaric harshness with which it is treated
that poor girl, or sickly woman, daughter of Mr. Tables? ... I you try as dukes, and she is
confused with the more pitiful beggars. What? Is this Christian Is this honest? But where there
is no real family can not have feelings of humanity or charity. Home, house, reconciled with God
and the Church, I get tired of saying it. If they do, then everything will make you easy. Save
your soul, and not defile other souls who are still pure. Healing of your injury, and so any
that is near you it will be contaminated .... I tell a third time, and I admonish the fourth
and fifth because I, who have so often despised death, what if I can make your resistance? Nazaria,
turns on you, hear my advice. Citing your heart with a cry, run to the church do not stop. I
find in my confessional. Goodbye.

Without any reverence, fearless, formidable, as the warrior who has
done his duty in the thick of combat, followed by Brother out.

When descending the stairs, tables upstairs.

-XII-

Giant opened the door of the room where the giant was, and
before entering round burst a suspicious look, lowering his chin to
his chest and hiding his eyes under dark brows.

The menacing expression on his forehead, the prominence of her forehead and he looked sullen swollen
gave his head frightening resemblance to the bull's head when it appears in jarameño circus,
and acknowledges with fire look anxious public, and it seems that he, before start the fight,
is appalled by the barbarism that is prepared.

Nazaria nose swelled up to no power. At that time much needed air.

Tables took a few steps toward her, and throwing both hands to the narrow waist, wiggled to
either side as rubber doll, and spat these words:

- Christ! ... if I've ever said I do not want clerigones at home .... Why has received?

Peppers took hold of a fan and said this:

- For me the real win .... In peace.

- In war .... If they return to find ... will be the street from the
balcony ... and you back.

- Valiente pied!

But man, do not kill so many people that the world ends.

- What were these crooks?

- The rascal you ... wild.

Both at home praying rosaries D. Very happy, and called rogue to
Mr. priests!

...

- What were they?

- In what has given us the win.

- Come, come - Tables strutting said again - that I am as a joker, that if I play, for every
finger I get a shot.

- What to you is the spirit leaves you drunk.

- Nazaria!

...

- Úrgame as well, and see what is cinnamon.

- Nazaria! ...

- Where have you been today? Say it quickly - Pimenta shouted talking in spurts -. Who is that
futraque who came to fetch?

- A so you do not mind .... Making rods with black tunics and leave me alone.

- Drunk!

- Well, and you said !..-- Tables, chewing his anger -.

Come, I will not bother me .... Why which has received the clergy?

- Because it's my holy will. I'm queen of my house.

- Warbler nothing less ....

Tables looked at a stick in the corner
of the room was, and would certainly act as third character in this
scene.

- Yes, I'm queen and mistress of all - roared Nazaria pale
and furious, spreading his arms -.

Mine is the bread you eat, the clothes you wear mine, mine to snuff you smoke, and my glasses, the
Drinking ....

He could not say more because the cough drowned. Its large jumping within trepidation as bladder clown.

-
Everything is Mrs., ha, ha said ...-- López wanting to turn into grotesque mockery statement
both humiliated him -. Then talk about that, but now tell me why they were Queen here again the black
sacripantes.

- Because I called them are we? ... because I like the sermon and wanted to give to the spirits.

- Anima mea! ... Christ .... With that there Pedrique in my house .... Well look I'm going to
give Extreme. Do not you ask the body hinsopo? ... Well see.

He looked back at the club, which was, as it were, to the cloth, waiting
to going on stage.

- Thief, if you move, you like ...-- Nazaria shouted
in a voice so magnificent, that table, and on the way to bring the
third person, he stopped in the middle of the room -.

Get on the front door now, lazy, freeloading, the bread I have eaten,
would have been better to cast it to dogs .... Did not you happy to
spend my money and ruin the house, but threatened me ...?

Lifetime Uncle David's harp, I had more money and more Comenencia four kings, and Thou hast filled
with traps! For you and your vices I'm determined to thousands more weights, swindling, and when
they make a garnish, the widow of Candelario Peribáñez the need to put the donut, to the chestnut,
the spirit or the tripe .... I see you removed the eyes, bad woman hi. Tell me, henpecked, where
are my jewels which gave envy at the Pillar in Zaragoza? Where are my four shawls that looked like
they had embroidered angels hands of Rose ... Ah! Must be where all the treasure? Peniscola, for
Mr. drink, for Mr. ride a horse and cows go down to the very mess invite to the crankshaft and
having girls .... Ea, were scarecrows. That door is going to street ....

- Do you know what I mean? ... because you're a talkative parrot and you have to cut your throat.

-
Do you know what I mean? it more than others I have livers that you
tended me a soplamocos.

Best HAD shame and decent person you were like me. Where do you spend your nights? ... What Why
spend the money?

... And then comes the idiot saying that it is with those men in politics and is putting together
a gatuperio like the times Mamancia fell .... What do you mean you
that, kaffir, if you walk on two feet because the Lord will make you
forget the cross on its back?

... Look, not over the wood that made the gallows in the square.

There you would like see it hanging like a sausage to go throw yourself in and see you doing
more piernazas grimaces a comedian with hunger. Mr. tragacanth Policy! Since when do we have such
wisdom? What you will do is trick the poor D. Felicísimo gave you crap you ate the first in
the world and sell to the Masons, telling what happens at home. Ah! bribonazo, if gape believe me,
I know your tricks and I know where you tighten the shoe.

- Ah ... Re-blood! if I say I'll take the cat that pounced Tables lengüecita said ...-- his heavy
hands to the face of the Pimenta.

- Stand back those windmill blades - she replied with extraordinary energy rejecting hands your
man.

- Damn the time ....

And with reckless raging anger, tables made a gesture, or instantly hooked on his paw the black
bow of the giant. The giant roared like a lioness, she arose, there was tremendous shock bodies and
stiff arms horrible crossing. Were balanced, there was a double groan and a sinister rattle,
a sign of violent efforts.

But he hurled Gigantona, brandished his burly arms, took a vacation
from his nose, and quick as thought, sprang up, two, three.

The floor was shaking like passing a car. Nazaria came to a table and picked up an object
bulky above it was. What was that? It was a box of wood and glass, high three quarters. Inside it
was a virgin of Sorrows, and over a bull plaster two bullfighters, a baby Jesus, a enormísima
crest. He raised his hands in every one bier big woman religious-taurine, and in less time than
it takes to think about it, everything fell with a crash formidable on the head table. The
rebuke or feline voice that launched to receive the blow is not to described. Broken glass on his
skull ripped his face. Without feeling blood flow ran for the club, but before arriving, since
you brought Pimenta peaked with a chair with both hands. The giant took another seat. They stopped
for a moment facing each other, throwing each other's fiery breath and crossing their rays eyes
full of anger. Suddenly the giant dropped the cabinet, he had a happy thought, saving. He stepped
back, squirmed in her sewing basket, drew a huge knife, and running
follow-up giant, who slipped frightened, cried with bellow:

- I slaughter
....

They went to some neighbors, for whom the maze was not new,
but until then not so loud quarrel had occurred at the home of Nazaria,
entered Romualda also shouting, and all were dedicated to the great
work of pacification.

Each contender was surrounded of a group and heard the calls more reasonable. Extraordinary
thing! The first who symptoms were noted was the collapse of appeasement
Lopez, the victim of speech and work.

Growling like a beaten hound, said he did not want to miss, it was
too man well to get lost, and that there was any woman in the world
deserves to be lost for her a man.

Nazaria said nothing, but with the vent showed puffs of his anger
that seemed to come in sleeves of evacuating the air filled breast.

The knife lay on the floor next to the remains of what was urn and
bits of plaster bull, trampled in the contest, the fine stained white
mat.

- And the villain is bleeding! - Pimenta said throwing his mouth
those sparks of laughter jumping through the flames of anger illuminating
the face -.

It looks like a Decehomo.

- It's nothing, is nothing - said the front table taking a tissue that gave the phenomenon.

- Rumaldo - shouted the giant - and brings down a little wine and oil.

Seeing the fury of one and one to be appeased gradually receded neighbors.

-
It bothers one for any nonsense - Lee muttered, letting you apply
the Nazaria tissue in the front -.

When you go to repair and has done a lot ... and lost man.

- We speak to one with bad manners, and a mustard is up to the nose, and you go beyond language.

-
And with that one is wise and knows the tricks of the beast and he
said ...-- foot Lopez trying to explain his cowardice.

- And if a
good way to ask him what they were after the parents faces, one answer
Pedrique coming to, and at peace.

But people are uncomfortable with a word .... Some languages shooting kicks .... Can not be remedied
....

- I'm an angel, but when I am asked, thrusting. What a genius God has given me! Myself I fear
I have sometimes .... Rumaldo ....

Rumaldo had come with the oil and wine, and getting ready Nazaria claiming the remedy every
head on which an urn has been shattered.

- Rumaldo, I have no snuff - said the athlete -; get off the tight ... soon, baby .... For as
I was saying, if a man like me, it's all fireworks, he had been asked to decency where he had
spent the day and what businesses brought to futraque, man would have answered like a gentleman. If
there is no mystery here ...! What a gentleman, whom I met at the house of D. Felicísimo comes to
me and says, 'Mr. Lopez, are you going to do me a big favor .-- You have, sir ...-- For the past two months,
police raided a house in the street of Bethlehem, where they gathered a few supporters D. Carlos.
The police were bribed in that hand and did not catch anyone. But the government has changed
the chillies of harangues by others and last night the police returned to search the house
from the street of Bethlehem, and caught five subjects, and put them in jail .-- De Villa which
I am glad, Mr. D. Salvador .-- Well, look, Mr. table, I come to you to do me the favor of providing
one of the five subjects means of escape, because there is a run run, knowing they will be shot
.-- Is it related to you? - Yes sir. Have you ever been employed in the prison of Villa? - Yes,
sir .-- You favored escape of Olózaga .-- Yes, sir .-- You can now
do likewise .-- Yes, sir .-- Then it must be done .-- How We are winning?
- Both .-- .-- As soon as it .-- We fix .-- Who is the guy? - Well
is so and so .-- Go ahead, start working today.

Come to the cafe and tavern talk to the guys in the jail ...». Overall, we've been inventing
all day mischief, and then went to Don Felicísimo, which is also
committed to put in safety to the prisoner. And other ones and I get
metal, woman, much metal, to carry it we have committed, and remove
traps ... out traps, come here dinerazo people Carlina, and coupled
with the little money people Freemason, you will see how our farm
goes again standing ....

The reconciliation was already secure, hardened
and tempers quickly softened heat confidence