 As you, he said to these gentlemen, the
short number of scholars who certainly kill anyone for money, I pray you tell me quale are your
occupations. Dissected flies, "replied the philosopher, measured lines, combined numbers, we
agree on two or three points that mean, and divided on two or three thousand who do not understand.
It occurred to Sirius and ask questions Saturnino atoms thinkers, to know about that they were
consistent. ? Far is, he said this, since the star Canicula to the big Geminis? They answered together:
Thirty-two degrees and one-half .--? Quanto far from here the moon? - Sixty semi-diameter of
the earth .--? Quanto weighs your ayre? Taken if any thought, but all they told him that weighed
nine hundred times less the same volume of water lighter, and nineteen thousand times less than
gold. Astonished the little elves urgently Saturn with their answers, I was tempted to believe
that those were magic ones to whom a quarter of an hour before the intelligence had been denied.

Micromegas
finally said to them: Once you know how time what is outside of you
no doubt that you will know better yet what is inside: say they know
what is your soul and how are your ideas.

Philosophers spoke all at the same time, as before, but all were of a different opinion. I quote
the most ancient to Aristotle, one pronounce the name of Descartes, that the Malebranche, that
that of Leibnitz, Locke and the other. The old peripatetic he said with confidence: The soul is
a entelechia, a reason under the qual is power being what it is, so what Aristotle says expressly,
pag. 633 of the edition of Louvre: Entelexeia esti, etc. I do not understand the Greek, 'said the giant.
Nor I, "replied the plowman philosophical. ? Well, that citais, "replied the Syrian, in that
Aristotle in Greek? Because what you do not understand, "said the sage, it must include language
that does not know.

I take the Cartesian thread, and said: The soul a pure spirit in the
womb has received all the metaphysical ideas, and so leave the has
been refined to go to school and relearn what we knew so well and
never gonna know.

For these prospered, the animal responded eight leagues, who could both remember when I was in
your soul the womb of your mother, if had to be so ignorant Quando were your man with a beard.
? Y you mean by spirit? ? That's what I ask? he said the discurridor, I have no idea none
of it: they say that it is not subject .--? And you know what is matter? That if you answered
man. That exemplo stone is brown, and such a figure, has three dimensions, and is serious and
divisible. That's right, he said on Sirius? But that thing that you think divisible, serious
and dark, I'll say it is? Some attributes see but? The backbone of these attributes you know?
No, he said the other. Then you do not know that something is the matter.

Addressing Mr. Micromegas then another wise beyond his thumb had, asked who was his soul, and
he was doing.

Any thing, "replied the philosopher Malebranche; It is God who does everything for me, I see
it in everything I do in everything, and the one who all cooperation does not mine. Both mating
does not exist, "replied the philosopher of Sirius. ? And you, friend told him to Leibniz who
were there, you say? ? That is your soul?