 Occasionally,
the cross next to a lady, the said :--«¡ You so pretty, Julia! " Or, "those eyes are killing
me" or "As there is not Torcuata Sarrio" or words to happy I turned on the style in pure joy the
maid. But let it go, never missed a extent of its severity. Because he knew that this was one
of his outstanding qualities and made him more appealing to the fairer sex.

Valentina had long expected. But the room was already populated by ladies, and the orchestra hypocritical
metal had performed two dances, but the gentle seamstress had made its appearance in dance.
Sounded again the strains of a mazurka. The gilded youth turned to closer the long form of the
daughters of the people. But our Pablito, faithful to his own, remained inactive looking cross
in front of him fast partners.

After the mazurka he was struck by the idea that Val would not come. The strained relations
who mediated between her and the author of his day, especially when he had a few glasses of wine
into the body, made it very plausible.

A few minutes later, was fully Pablito convinced.

Is your state of mind coincided with the arrival of the blond Nieves in the classroom. Its eyes met.
The poor girl, abandoned villainously did not even two months smiled sweetly. This sweetness
was precisely the cause of his misfortune.

The handsome Pablito soon tired of sweet women.

However, smiled back, and passing at his side, told Mathematics:

- You're going to attack bulls, Nieves.

The embroidery was carrying a red handkerchief tied around his waist. This sentence of his former
lover caused her effect so alive that does not know what to say. He smiled again and said, ah
... Yes ... No! and some other particles that do not remember, and
wanted to faint with excitement.

In the next round asked him to dance with him the first polka. The first, second, third, and
polkas all touched in the universe, Nieves said the shaking itself came out from his lips.
After he committed the polka, Paul felt a great regret :--«¡ What fool, what I'm gross! What if now
comes Valentina? "

But failed. The orchestra began a prelude to the opening stages. The young man, without removing
Eye of the door, hugged the waist of the embroiderer, throwing her in rapid flight the room.
Other young people, no less swift, coming from the opposite side, and clear! first shock, then another
and then another. These meetings were an attraction in those dances. The Young, who persona overwhelmed
hairstyle or forced to falter, instead of feeling anger, laughing out loud with pleasure vivid.
Pablo and Nieves, who could not take four steps without encounter
with another couple, were truly spellbound.

However, the young, always passing through the front door, I felt
a slight tremor in the legs, and hastened away from it.

When the orchestra was silent, took his family into a corner of the
room, and there stood a moment mingled.

Pablito felt burning in the ashes of their love one spark of sympathy
for this girl so happy, so peaceful, so loving.

- I had no desire
to dance with you, Nieves - he said as he wiped the sweat with a handkerchief.

-
And I with you, Paul.

- Do you?

The girl blushed.

- Have you forgotten you yet?

- So much time passed!

- You're right ... But look how I have not
forgotten.

- On Wednesday I saw him ... I saw you on the road of
snow ... Going on a white horse ...

- It was a mare.

- I thought
you pulled.

- Throw me! - Pablito said frowning .-- Loosen a little
girl!
