 In this, the charanga
sang real progress with energy, all faces turned to the regional viewpoint which appeared Queen Elizabeth:
Some clapped, others said 'hush, hush, "because the political atmosphere was then overcast with some
clouds who downloaded not long after. Made the signal, after all, the teams entered the arena
to the sound of the running of the zarzuela Pan y toros: out, as usual, forming three rows in front
of each was the respective sword. To see a prolonged burst of applause. Severe across the
square, firm, rhythmic, listening to the shouting that his appearance had raised with the utmost
indifference; its rich costumes and bright Capellaro live firing flares that pleases the eye.

- Mial, mial old! ... That is, to the left ... Mial which side has ... Le zumba the soul to this
guy! .. In Spain there is no longer bulls who receives more than he ...

All attention was concentrated on the plaza cigarette cases, despite the fact that also killed
Laurel and lizards, which was then beginning to be the darling of the public. But for the Madrid
fan, to see receive a bull is one of those dreams that never made although they live constantly
in the heart stand taken by several bullfighters, but receive receive
what is called truth, they have not done more than the ancient heroes
of bullfighting.

Uniform saluted with a gesture to the chair, and broke ranks, pulling layers gala friends in
the stands, who were responsible for their care with more pride than if they were the Ark of the
Covenant. The president took out his handkerchief, blew the bugle, the door opened pen: the first
bull appeared. Miura was a chestnut, chorreao, ribbon, thin and beautiful film, raised long
horn. Volunteer showed himself noble in the sticks, holding six Shiv of round picks. But to get to
the sticks began to fight back. However, the Serranito couple stabbed a superb room with fine
and clean, pleasantly surprised the public: in Madrid did not know, as in Seville, Baldomero was
a boy who would much to speak. Hake was passed once and then hung a stick room as well. He turned
Serranito to pick up the sticks, and after trying in vain to hang on the bias, put them breaking
with cleaning and expertise. There was a frenzy of clapping in the square, her slender figure and the unique
correctness and delicacy of her features, captivated the audience, the women you greedily dug
twins, triumphantly walked around the square to receive the applause
of smiling lines.

It was his turn to Cigarette: severely advanced to the presidency, took off his hat and he
croaked a few words that nobody could understand, then went straight to bull, which had marked tendency
to flee. Persiguiole some time unsuccessfully expectant curiosity through the square. Finally,
thanks to the efforts of the crew, could fret, and did pretty tight, giving some good passes,
the crowd applauded and the promised very happy. But amid the slaughter, the right-hander suffered
a strained and lost entirely aplomb, gave three or four passes without trust and broken, and
fast and running, without being either square the animal, rolled the cloth away and threw
quite a step of flags. The thrust was a dip in the most evil thing he had never seen. It's indescribable
anger that gripped the audience. Had it been another bullfighter had gone through a whistle,
large or small, but have conceived the hope of seeing a former teacher bullfighting by Montes
system and come to the square to witness that shame, this put out of his fans. What shouting, good
heavens! How insulting! I'm sorry!

It seemed that everyone had just robbed him the honor of his daughter.

- Morral, thief, big pig! So you hang by your feet! Are you the one who received the bulls?
A prison with that rascal! Mr. President, how soon would you have Civil Guard?

And amid the clutter, oranges, empty bottles and even a few stones,
flying the square, and right-hander hurt miracle. This advanced, pale,
embarrassed, to the presidency. Tended to reach near where they were
Enrique and Miguel, an orange accurate him in the face and drew blood