 Salabert thought with disgust of the inheritance that reversed
her daughter. Made new efforts to overturn his wife's will, but to no avail. For the first time
in her life Ms Carmen showed signs of great strength of character. Although unable for revenge
was such a hard time in her desire to end the existence of an act of justice. A life of complete
submission, without offering the slightest obstacle to the will of her husband, their economic
plans or his illicit passions, well deserved when death claim their freedom to satisfy the
impulses of the heart. Osorio watched quietly, hidden anxiety, the progress of the disease, the
outcome drag Once I get to the end of their troubles. Ms Carmen would shed his fleshly envelope and
that of their creditors. The same Clementina, favorite object of the angelic tenderness lady,
could not enjoy the prospect of so many millions and would fall into their hands. Tried to suppress
their desires, impatience off, but despite a devil tempting him made his heart jump for joy every
time the thought came to her brain.

Infernal cunning, Salabert was possible to introduce distrust in the mind of his wife. Sometimes
a sly way, sometimes cynical and brutal, poured into his soul the poison of suspicion. Clementina
Osorio and water waiting for their death as May. What comforts would be where should pay all
their traps! And to another: to live, to enjoy the money the unhappy lady! This remained silent,
outraged at the evil insinuations of her husband. But in his soul sad and weakened by the disease,
the tip of that steely arrow writhed causing sharp pains that sought to hide. Whenever Clementina
came to visit, and ultimately made him twice a day, her stepmother's eyes were fixed upon her with dumb
question, trying to read on their own the ideas that passed through the brain. This eager
attention embarrassed Osorio's wife, made him feel a disturbance that though slight, sometimes
leaving no visible.

As the disease progressed, the effort of Ms Carmen was rising to become mania. Clementina represented
in the moral solitude in which he lived the only bond of love bound her to the ground. For the
same reason that his stepdaughter had always been cold and haughty with all least she had never
doubted the sincerity of his affection. I was satisfied with it and proud. It was enough to
compensate the contemptuous indifference he observed in all who approached her. The horrible
suspicion that he had forcibly entered his heart filled him with bitterness. A kind and loving spirit
like his needed to believe in kindness and love. To tear this latter belief was bleeding in
pain.

One evening they were together and alone. The Duchess, still in his chair, his head thrown back,
listened to her read a story devoted stepdaughter, the appearance of the Virgin La Salette.
His thought was not in the case: teníalo hectic, as always, that fatal doubt embittered even more
than his poor body condition days. Staring and divining of approaching the grave, crossed the
beautiful front inclined Clementina about the book and confusingly spelled in there without
being able to acquire the certainty that craved. More than once, lifting it's head, was found
with this look dull and disconsolate, he promptly dropped his own, a sudden rush of discomfort.
In the soul of the sick was born a desire, a whim rather vivid and searing as those feel the
dying. He wanted his stepdaughter it cool with a sweet word horrible Burn your question caused him.
Several times his lips trembled to ask the question. Invincible shame stopped.

- Leave the book, my daughter: you're tired - said at last. And his voice from trembling throat acted
as a severe sentence.

- What will you be heard. I do not, thank God, I have healthy throat.

- God will preserve it, my child, God will preserve it - said the
lady with an accent of tenderness staring.

There was a moment of silence.

- Do you know what I have said? - Dared to utter later.

And his voice came out so dull that the last syllable barely heard.

Clementina, who was preparing to go on reading, looked up.

The few drops of blood Dona Carmen had already climbed his ruined
body was hit in the face and stained slightly red.

- I heard ...
I was hoping my death.

In turn, the rich blood of Clementina went hastily to her cheeks and
lighted in vivid colors.

Both looked confused for a moment.

The girl exclaimed with energy at the end wrinkling his forehead:

- I know who has told you.

And his blood, to utter these words, he fled the face again as an
ebb tide instantaneous.

That of his stepmother also focused on his injured heart.

He bent his white and weary head, saying:

- If you know, do not pronounce his name.

- Why not? - Stepdaughter cried angrily -.

When a parent, for no reason, only for a few miserable pennies injury torments his daughter
and his wife, has no right to or whatever you want to be respected .... I'll tell you all the
lyrics .... That is outrageous! ... Dad is a man who has no love
God no more money.

I knew that the will you had alienated me your love ... (If I ever had it ....)

- Oh!

- Yes, I know very well.

But I never thought that would commit such a vile, slandering that
way .... You will know that I have always wanted more than him ...
Yes, yes, more than him!

I have no hesitation in saying .... I will say more: I have not really loved anyone else that you and
my children .... If that will is the reason why you doubt my love,
you break it .... Break it, yes, your peace and love I care much more
than your money ....

The lady's voice quivered with indignation as
he uttered these words.

His eyes were fixed in hard vacuum, as if they wanted to see it up in front of his father figure
to pulverize. At that time he spoke with sincerity.

Opaque eyes of Ms Carmen, as he spoke, were glowing with joy. At last clouded with tears, and exclaimed:

-
I believe you, my dear, I believe you! ... Ah, you do not know well I do!

At the same time seized his hands and kissed her warmly.

Clementina gave a cry of shame.

- Oh, no, no, Mom ... I am who I ....

And she threw her arms around his neck tenderly. Long time were hugging, crying silently. It
was one of the few times I cried Clementina emotion and not spite.

But within days, but survived both live in the memory of this tender scene, was also the reason
of that had occurred. Clementina felt ashamed to appear in front of his stepmother. His attention,
his words of affection were sometimes exaggerated: he wanted erased with them thinking that clearly
read in the eyes of the former. Other times, imagining that could serve to doubt their sincerity,
they stop and take a hit indifferent and cold. Anyway there was between those two current concerns
made them suffer, by different ways, the times when they were together.

Ms Carmen finally fell into bed, never to rise.

Clementina went there all day. The terrible time approached. At last one morning, between two and
three, called with alarm Osorio's hotel two servants of the duke.

The lady was dying. His daughter asked insistently. This hastily got up from bed, and all the escape
of their horses flew to the palace Requena. Osorio was with her.

Upon entering the room with the patient encountered Duke, who will face looked sullen.

- You arrive on time! You arrive on time! - Growled softly. And he
walked away without another word.

Clementina thought he noticed in these words malicious intent and
bit his lip in anger.

The sad scene offered his view, just approached the bed of Ms Carmen managed to briefly shut
down their hatred.

The unfortunate lady was showing on his face signs death, deathly pallor, the taper of the nose,
eyes glazed over and around of them a dark circle, purple.

At his side and stood the priest who urged to repent. (What?) At the foot of the bed, Marcela,
her former maid, cried hiding the face with his handkerchief. Two other servants watched from
far away with frightened faces, rather than sore, that pitiful picture.

There in a corner the doctor wrote a prescription.

On seeing his daughter, the duchess turned her eyes toward her and extended expression of anxiety
a hand to call.

Come, my dear - "His voice was quite clear. And after taking his hand went between both of his yellow,
emaciated, terrible exclaimed looking at her steadily in the eye

-
I die, my dear, I'm dying!

Is not it true that you feel it? ... Why at least not you glad?

- Oh, Mama!

- Say that you are happy - eagerly insisted without removing his gaze from the eyes of the young.

-
Mom, for God's sake - he said it stunned and terrified at the same time.

- Say that you're happy! - Repeated with even more power lifting at the expense of great efforts
head, staring hard.

- No, mother of the soul, no! If I could preserve his life at the expense of mine, I swear to you
that I would.

The large opaque eyes of the dying softened.

He put her head on pillow, and after a short silence and a muffled voice said hesitantly

- It would be ungrateful ... yes, very ungrateful .... Your poor mom
loved you so much!

... Give me a kiss .... Do not cry .... I feel let the world .... What hurt me is that you, my daughter
heart ... you .... What a horrible thought! I have suffered much!

The priest brought at the time asking her to leave the worldly thoughts.

The sick listened humbly, devoutly repeated the prayers that she read aloud. The doctor and the
Duke came to put a shock, but noting that began rattle, the doctor made a gesture and grabbed his arm to
duke it out outside the stay.

Ms Carmen cast a haggard eyes, glassy, ??and all of them and stopping them in Clementina beckoned
again one approaching.

- Farewell, child - said without looking at her, his eyes fixed on the ceiling -. You do well
to rejoice of my death ....

- You say, Mom! - Said that with a cry of horror.

- It's good .... I am glad that my death serve you something .... If I could give you in life
that I belong ... have given you everything .... It's sad right? ... Have to die to make you
happy .... I would have enjoyed seeing you both happy! ... Farewell, my dear, goodbye ... ever
remember your poor mom ....

- Mother of my soul - shouted the lady fell down and bursting into tears -. I do not want I die,
no! ... I've been very bad ... but I've always wanted ... and I respected
....

- Do not be silly - said the dying woman in an effort to smile
and stroked her head with skeleton hand -.

It does not hurt to gloat .... Who cares? ... Die happy knowing that you will owe me some happiness
.... I recommend the old ladies of asylum .... Protect them, my daughter
... Marcela is already good, too .... Bye bye all .... Forgive me
the evil I have done ....

Rattle grew, sounded more strident and
more grim by the minute.

Clementina's sobs and cut at intervals Marcela notes that snoring fatal. Duke, trembling, altered,
drag it left the end of the room.

Ms Carmen did not speak again. His eyes closed, mouth slightly open, the body alone. From time
to time up a little eyelids and looked affectionately at his stepdaughter
kneeling.

The priest read a nasal voice, plaintive, the prayers of his book.

Thus died the Duchesse de Requena. Leave her, let her go!

Some days later, Clementina and her husband, despite the professed
unquenchable hatred, held long and frequent conferences.

The great question of inheritance temporarily united. Clementina
morning and afternoon visiting his father.

Osorio also often went to the palace Requena. Either the old thousand attentions lavished, pitied
her solitude, her spoiled. There was some familiarity affectionate behavior that fits very well
with some children that will protect the venerable old age of a parent. The Duke was left watching
worship with that sly look more tenderly. When they returned back to leave, followed him with eyes,
lowered his eyelids slowly, stirring between his lips and the American
fig sketching in his face was a grin that lasted even a few seconds
after of out of sight.

Things continued in the state before. Despite the will of the Duchess was strict, Salabert did
not deign to speak a word of interest. Continue to have their chief flow delivered to business
with absolute confidence. His daughter and her husband lost it to see this attitude. Began to live
rough, to communicate to every moment with violence impressions, to form plans to bring an explanation.
Clementina Osorio claimed that you speak. This thought was she who had kindly ask for an explanation
before from making a complaint. After several days of hesitation, finally decided the wife
to address a few words to his father, though with some hesitation and pregnancy, he knew the
character of this and better yet your own.

- Let's see, dad - he said, finding him alone in the office, with affected gaiety -. When I
talk about money?

- What money? ... Why? - Duke responded with surprise, looking at her face so innocent that made
you want to slap him.

- Why should it be? to find out what concerns me. Am I not the only universal Mom's heir? - replied
without leaving the jovial tone, but with some alteration in voice well perceptible.

- Ah, yes - said the Duke, making a hand gesture of indifference -. We will discuss later ...
Much later!

Clementina turned pale. Anger made her jump to her blood. His lips trembled and was about to say
nonsense.

- It would be nice, however, we understood we ...-- murmured faintly.

-
Nothing, nothing, not talk now.

When you have time and mood and I will deal with those things.

He spoke with such confidence and indifference not without contempt, that his daughter had
to choose between give free rein to the tongue, to break with his father in a violent way,
or leave. Decidióse, after a moment's hesitation about this. He turned on his heels, and without
a word goodbye left the room and got into the car, in a state of excitement that shook whole body.

When
he got home he ran to lock herself in her room and gave out the fury that seized. He cried,
kicked and tore his clothes, broke a piece of junk. Osorio also mounted angry and said he would
do and events. All this was not, however, rather than a letter that, with enough respect, his father
invited him to manifest the state of their finances, to kick off early trading inventory. Salabert
did not answer this letter. We wrote another. Neither. They stopped to visit. Clementina did not
want go "not to make a scandal." Osorio was not considered sufficient moral force, since the state
of their marital relationships, with power to claim the wealth of his wife. In this predicament
talked to some friends of the Duke of respect, and sent them as medians.

They fulfilled their task: they spoke with the old, and after several interviews resolved to bring
about a friendly meeting so that the case go to court. Efectuóse this, after some resistance
by Clementina, in the palace of father. It was attended, besides stakeholders Ortega's father,
Count Cotorraso, Calderon and Jimenez Arbós. The latter (which had ceased to be a minister and
was in opposition) opened the meeting broaching a speech "conciliatory
tone" excited to Concord for not giving the public the spectacle of
a dispute between father and daughter money issues, show that, given
his high position in the world, could not to be repugnant. Followed
him in using the word Father Ortega, who with persuasive accent and
unctuous that characterized him, after giving them, like the Duke
to their children a good crazy praise soap to put soft, appealed to
his Christian feelings, they This was a bad example that would, I
painted the sweetness of love and sacrifice mutual and concluded by
promising them eternal glory.

Clementina said the first she had no
other wish than to continue to hold with his father the same relations
of affection and respect than before, and that to achieve was willing
to do whatever was possible. The hard, dry tone that gave these words
and the scowl that accompanied them did not provide clear evidence
of his sincerity. However, the duke said so moved.

- Arbós! Father!
You, my children! Everyone knows my character perfectly .... For me,
outside the family there is no happiness possible .... After the terrible
blow that out of suffering, the only thing I have left in the world
is my daughter .... Here I have concentrated all my love, my hope
and my pride .... I worked for her, I fought tirelessly, have met
I own the capital .... I can say I've never felt the need for money
rather than my woman (God rest his soul) and my daughter ..., by viewing
them happy being surrounded by and luxury .... I always have enough
to live four quarters, as you know. Today I am old, more so .... What
do I and millions? Soon I will be forced to take the train to another
neighborhood, eh, Julian? And thou likewise. Consequently, to whom
may come up that I will fight as a matter of pennies to the daughter
of my heart ... Here there has been more than a mistake. I needed
time to clarify my issues .... That's all .... But if you have thought
otherwise, my dear, I can only tell you this .... What's in this house
is yours and always has been. Take it whenever you want .... Take,
daughter, take it .... I simply nothing ....

As he uttered these
last words visibly moved, his eyes wanted arrasársele tears. All samples
were also of emotion and burst into phrases conciliation. Ortega's
father Clementina gently pushed into the arms of his father, and although
she was less agitated, he finally stopped hugging him, that was a
good time tight