 Of these, the main is Santa
Ana, in which area, and the masonry of the bridge itself, there are seats or stalls always full of
curious, warm nights in June and July, there's soaked perfumed and voluptuous atmosphere behind
them carries the current.

It was vacation, and my friend and colleague Don Carlos, closed and our gatherings, we we cited
in this site some time to get together, then rotate and roam other times the beam of the moon,
retire to our inn, to review the studies that we are so busily and
then we were worth so little.

One night (and very close to his departure for the summer with his parents) gave the twelve
without having gone to the usual place. Already I was beginning to take care for his tardiness,
when I saw them happier and more loudly than ever, and seizing my
hand the warmest affection, I apologized for his carelessness, and,
as always, to straighten our inn.

That night FUEM impossible to make any speech file of interest, let alone our academic work.

-
Studies for pleasure and not out of obligation - I said -. Do you think you will appreciate
our sleeplessness but excelled in college and achieve all the laurels of Minerva? If such happen,
how would the fools?, and already decided that they must always campear
around the world.

So saying - continued - from now on talks run through wise and therefore not anger, and since
we can not attract the dream, now forget the pandects and codes.

Saying this, he began to introduce their projects, which were greater
or more splendid if I had to hand a million pesos, and its future
acquisitions and for the estates I had to give, and inseparably trips
had to undertake, I stopped for crazy or like a man who amused himself
by fantasizing the hours of sleep and rest.

The next day, good morning, was already in his office, adding and
figuring amounts immense value, and yet to have on hand the money
his family sent him to travel, begged me to lend him three coins that
were of each other more in the same.

I replied that a few coins that he had not kept such a proportion, but to spend them that nothing
mattered to me very strange circumstances.

He got up without replying or an echo, and went through the house in demand for coins as pilgrims,
and soon returned saying:

- It is far nobody has been able to meet the taste, but the person
who least wanted; but the force has been content with their good work.

The old Carja gave me three coins the requirement that I ask: are three fold, the first of two pesos,
the second of four and the third of eight, and the latter must be also kept many decades has
it been since macuquino that is gold or cut.

And that taught me the double talk, that the reverse had the names of Ferdinand and Isabella.

-
The old Carja - said my comrade - however dulzaina display for me, always me is a bad omen since
the other day, some gypsy fortune-telling that know, I predicted that my tastes had to spoil
me by old hands, but in Case now I try not know what evil might induce.

We

parted on the evening and were, as always, above the bridge of Santa
Ana Arrival time, and had not given the room for twelve, when with
faltering steps and more melancholy air came up to me and taking me
by the hand, cold as hail, pulled me to the inn, going as confusing
as it scared me.

Sighs hurt me greatly, and touching the threshold of the door I said:

- What wonders will you know me!

Retired to our room, and I more curious than ever, and fearing the spirit Arriscado and adventures
of my friend, I sat on the edge of the bed and waited to start, as thus began his reasoning:

- Yesterday, the looming night, picked fresh from the last bridge that carries the Hazel and which
is also to give the path that leads to the back of the Alhambra. Solo site, and time by the
way, let me go on the wings of my wanderings, when a voice near me
on edge, I pulled off my dreams, saying: "Are you brave? Want to make
a fortune ?..." I turned my eyes and I found two steps using a soldier
rather than tall, with Morion crest, with ruff and blue dress, her
face not unpleasant, but pale and ashen and the voice deep and sad
but nothing unpleasant. He carried the sword of plywood shoulder,
and hand supported the pike dark, but very shining iron