 He stopped and made Zadig
a deep bow, to which corresponded the hermit so gentle and so noble that Zadig to her curiosity
came to reason with him. Was asked what book he read. The book destination, he said the hermit:
you want to read any piece? He placed in his hands, but even Zadig was Vorse in many languages,
could not find a single letter, so qual is increased their curiosity. You seem very sad, the
good father said to him. I have much reason to be! said Zadig. If you give me leave to accompany
you, "replied the old man, perhaps I can serve you something, that sometimes I have baxar comfort
the souls of the unfortunate. The trace, beard and the book of the hermit command respect in
Zadig, and their conversation found top lights. The hermit talked of fate, justice, morality,
the highest good, of human weakness, of the virtues and vices so lively and penetrating eloquence,
which Zadig by an irresistible delight was attracted to him and he prayed earnestly that no dexara
him until they were back in Babylon. That same please I beg you, swear to me by Orosmades,
that whatever it is what you see me do, you have to separate you from me few days. Jurólo
Zadig, and together they followed their path.

That same afternoon they arrived at a magnificent villa, and asked the hermit hosting plans
for themselves and the boy who accompanied him. Introdúxolos at home, with an air of contemptuous
generosity a janitor who seemed like a great lord, and presented a servant principal, who
taught the chambers of his master. Him down at the end of the table, without condescending to
the owner of that Palace of honor at a glance, but the serve, as to all others, with opulence
and sensitivity. Then they gave water to hand in a basin of gold, studded with emeralds and
rubies, brought him to lie down to a sumptuous room, and the next morning he brought the servant
to every one a gold coin, and then sent them off.

The master of this house, 'said Zadig on the way, I think it is generous, although somewhat arrogant,
and exercising himself with nobility hospitality. With these words, said that it seemed stiff and
swollen with a kind of very long costal brought the hermit, and saw within the basin gold studded
with precious stones, that he had stolen.

Dared not say anything, but I was confused and perplexed.

When noon came the hermit at the door of a very miserable hut where lived an old miser, and asked where
it was produced by a few crying. Received him with harsh face a shabby old servant, and took
them to the hermit Zadig to the stable, where they served Aceytuno some bad, some brown bread,
and wine vinegar. The hermit ate and drank with such a good mood as the day before, and then
addressing the old servant who did not remove the view of each other because they stole nothing,
and gave them haste to go, and they gave him the two gold coins he had received that morning, and
thanking him for his courtesy, said: I beg to allow me to talk to your master. Stunned the
servant introduced the two travelers. Superb sir, 'said the hermit, I can not but give the
most surrendered by the noble entertainment with us you welcomed deign to admit that gold basin
short pay my gratitude. Very nearly fainted with joy the miser, and the hermit without giving
him time to return to his astonishment, he broke all haste to his young companion. Father, Zadig
said to him, what do you say what I'm seeing? seems to me that you do not semejais in all others:
have robbed a gold basin adorned with precious stones to a man that you stay with magnificence,
and the dais to a miser who indignantly you about! Son replied the old man, the great man only out
of vanity, and flaunt their wealth, host to the foreigners, will become more sane, and exercising himself
to learn the miserly hospitality. Do not give anything amazement, and follow me. Zadig still
could not manage if he went to the craziest or the most Men's sane, but such was the domain that
Granger had his mind the hermit which also required by his oath he
could not but follow.

That evening they came to a house neat, but simple, and where nothing breathed prodigality or parsimony.
He was a philosopher, retired owner of drudgery in the world, cultivated in peace wisdom and
virtue, and never bored. Had particularly liked this building remote lodge, where he received
the strangers with a dignity that resembled nothing ostentation. The same went out to meet
the two walkers, rested on a very comfortable room, and shortly after he came in person to invite
them to a banquet neat and well served during the qual spoke very good sense to the latest
revolutions in Babylon. Heart seemed addicted to the Queen, and wished that Zadig had been
found among competitors to the crown, but men do not deserve, he added, have a king as Zadig. I
felt embarrassed that grow your pain. In the conversation was all that consistent in that were
not always the things of this world to like the wise, but living the hermit we did not know the
ways of Providence, and that it was mistake in men fail on of a whole,
when Vian no more than a tiny part.

Tratóse passions. Quan is deadly! 'said Zadig. Son, "replied the hermit, winds to swell the sails
of the ship, sometimes you are immersed, but without them you can
not navigate.

The bile makes angry, and causes disease, but no one could not live bile. On earth everything
is dangerous, and all necessary.

Tratóse of Deleyte, and tested the hermit that was a gift of divinity, because man, he said,
for himself can not have feelings or ideas: everything in it is borrowed, and the penalty and the
delight will come from another, as their very being.

Zadig Pasmábase that a man who had committed so many blunders, runs with both success. Finally
after a conversation no less pleasant than instructive, led his guest to the two walking into
a room, giving thanks to heaven that he had sent two men so wise
and virtuous.

Brindóles with money from a naive and noble so that he could not upset: rehusóle the hermit,
and told him that he said goodbye to him, because to be assumed to mind Babylon before dawn. Their
separation was affectionate, and specialty Zadig remained esteem and affection penetrated so
kind to host.

Quando was with the hermit in his place, did both a pompous eulogy of his guest. At daybreak,
awakened his old comrade. Come on, told him, I however, whilst sleeping around the world, to this
good man dexar proof of my esteem and my affection. Saying this, he took a torch and set fire
to the house. Zadig got frightened cries, and she wanted clogging who commits such a horrendous,
but was carried along with it with superior strength the hermit. Ardia the house, and the hermit
who with her partner and was diverted, the burn looked very quietly.

Thank God, he said, is already home to my good host burnt to the ground, do man so happy!
At these words he came to temptations Zadig releasing laughter, say a thousand pranks Reverend
Father, to give clubs, and escape, but the repressed all, always dominated by the superiority of
the hermit, and he continued until the last day.

Alojáronse the house of a charitable and virtuous widow, had a nephew qual fourteen year-old
boy hilarious, and that was their only hope. Agasajólos as best he could in home, and the next
day ordered his nephew who was accompanying the two walkers to a bridge that had recently broken
into, and it was a dangerous step. Solicitous Precedíalos the boy, and when they had arrived
on the bridge, the hermit told him, 'Come, my son I want to express my thanks to your aunt, and
grabbing the hair you pull the river. Boy falls, nothing for a moment above the water, and power
leads. O monster or the most evil man of men! said Zadig. Have you had given me more patience
word, "interrupted the hermit know that vnder the rubble of the house to which Providence on
fire, its owner has found a huge treasure, know that this young man
Providence had drowned by murdering his aunt in about a year and within
two to you same.

Who told you, inhuman? cried Zadig, "and even Quando'd read that event in your book of destinies,
what right have you to drown a boy who made you no harm?

He was still talking about the Babylonian, when warned that he had no beard and the elderly,
and his face is rejuvenated. Then he disappeared his hermit's garb, and four beautiful wings
covered majestic and radiant body. O auditorium of heaven or heavenly angel cried prostrate Zadig
with you baxado of Empyrean to teach a weak mortal to which is subject to their eternal decrees!
Humans, he said the angel Jesrad, unaware of anything failing of all: between all mortals that
you were the more you deserve to be illustrated. Zadig entreated her permission to speak,
and said: I do not trust my understanding, but if I must be bold to beg you to dispel a question
of mine, tell me if it was better to have amended this boy, and made him virtuous, that drown?
Had he been virtuous and lived Jesrad said, was his fate to be killed with the woman with whom
he had married, and the son of this marriage was to be born. How it is essential, he said Zadig,
who has atrocities and misfortunes, and that these recaygan in the virtuous? The bad, said Jesrad,
always unhappy, and serve to try a small number of just planted on the face of the earth, with
no evil where not be an asset. But he said Zadig, "if you only had assets without mixture
of evil? Land then replied Jesrad was other land, the chain of events another order of knowledge;
and this order, which would be perfect, just at the mansion of the Supreme Being, where there
can be none evil can exist. Millions of worlds has raised, and no two that may seem one to
another, that this immense variety is an attribute of their immense power. There is on earth
two leaves of a tree, or the endless sky fields entirely like two balloons; and quanto see
in the tiny atom where you were born of necessity, had to exist in its time and place, according
to the immutable order of that all-embracing. People think that this child has just died accidentally
fallen in the river and that the house was burned by accident, but no chance, it's all trial
or punishment, remuneration or providence. Remember that fisherman who had the most unfortunate
mortals, and Orosmades sent you to move your luck. Dexa, weak mortal, to dispute against what
you worship. But he said Zadig .... As he said though, since he directed the angel its rapid flight
to the tenth sphere. Zadig on his knees worshiped Providence, and
submitted.

From the top of cycles shouted the angel: Take the road to Babylon.

CHAPTER XXI.

Riddles.

Zadig beside himself as one who has seen them drop near him lightning, walking heedless. Came
to Babylon the day to hit the riddles and answer the questions of the high magician were assembled in
the main courtyard of the palace had all fought in quanta palenque, and had come all the supporters
of the fair, minus the green arms. As he entered Zadig in the city, crowded around him people,
without being tired eyes looking at him, his tongue to give blessings, nor his heart to wish that
cinese the crown. The envious that saw him go dodged spiteful, and it took the crowd on wings the
assembly site. The queen, whom he told about his arrival stirred fears hesitated and hope and full
of anxiety could not understand why Zadig came unarmed, or as Itobad carrying the weapons. Alzose
so a confused murmur to descry Zadig: all were stunned and filled with joy to see him, but only
those knights who had fought was entitled to present at the meeting
.-- I also have struggled, he said, but another has usurped my arms,
and until I have the honor of accredit, I beg leave to present myself
hitting riddles.

Voted, and was so recorded in all minds, even the reputation of probity, which was unanimously
accepted.

The first question proposed was the chief magician: qual is the longest and shortest of all things
in the world, the shorter and slower, the more divided and more extensive, the most widely
wasted and have lost more you cry, without which nothing can be done, that swallows all I mean,
and gives life to everything great? Itobad played to respond, and said he did not understand guessing,
and that was enough to have been victorious lance in hand. They said it was about wealth, other than
the earth, and other than light. Zadig he said it was time. There is nothing longer, he said,
measuring eternity, or shorter, as needed for all our plans: and slower for those who wait,
no more fast for one who enjoys it extends infinitely to large, and
divided to the infinitely small, neither does appreciate it, and everybody
cries loss without him nothing is done, buried in oblivion quanto
is unworthy of posterity, and actions makes the glans immortal.

The assembly Zadig admitted that he was right.

Then asked: What do we receive no grateful we enjoy without knowing how, we to others without knowing
where we are, and lose without him out of view? Each one said to his thing, just Zadig was the
life he knew that, and just as easily hit the other enigmas. Itobad was saying at last that there
was something easier, and with the greatest ease he would have given it, if wanted to take
the job.

Question About Propusiéronse course of justice, supreme good, the art of reign, and the responses
of Zadig is known for the most robust. Pity is, they said all that sugeto so much talent be
so bad rider.

Ladies and Gentlemen, 'said Zadig finally, I have had the honor of
winning in the arena, I am which had the weapons.

Mr. Itobad took on them while I was sleeping, thinking that surely do him rather than the green.
I challenge you to prove before you all with my gown and my sword against all their gleaming
white armor I have removed, it was me who had the honor of winning the brave Otama.

Itobad conceded the match with confidence, not doubting that with his helmet, his armor and
bracelets, she would find a champion that was presented with his robe and cap sleep. Zadig bared
his sword after making a courtesy to the Queen, which stirred fears and joy watching him; Itobad
desenvaynó away without greeting anyone, and rushed to Zadig as who had nothing to fear. Ibal
to cleave the head of a sword, when the Zadig stopped coup, making the sword of his adversary
pegase false, and hiciese pieces. Hugging Then with his enemy threw her down, and placing the tip of
the sword between Shell and the back: DEXA disarm, he said to him, if you want to lose your life.
Itobad stunned, as usual, of the misfortunes that a man as it happened, no resistance was to Zadig,
who much to his taste took his magnificent helmet, his superb cuirass, his beautiful bracelets, his lucid
purses, and thus armed went to bow to Astarte plants. Easily Cador proved that the weapons belonged
to Zadig, the qual was taken up by unanimous consent king, with great appreciation of Astarte, who,
after many misadventures enjoyed the satisfaction of seeing her lover worthy of her husband in sight
of the universe. He went to his house Itobad them to be called His Excellency. Zadig was king
and happy, not forgetting he had taught quanto Jesrad angel, and remembering the grain of sand turned
into diamond, and he and the queen adored Providence. Zadig I leave the world to run through the
beautiful capricious Missouf; sent and called the bandit Arboga, whom he gave an honorable
post in the army, promising that he would advance until the first military honors if he behaved
as a brave soldier, and he would send hanged if to thieving. Setoc, called the interior of
Arabia, came with Almona beautiful, and was appointed superintendent of trade in Babylon. Cador,
placed and appreciated as they deserved their services, was a friend of the king, and this
was the only monarch on land that had a friend. Zadig did not forget the dumb, or the fisherman,
whom gave a very beautiful house.

Orcan was condemned to pay a large sum of money, and to restore his wife, but the fisherman, who
had made man wise, but that would not money.

The beautiful Semira consoles could not have been persuaded that Zadig had one eye, Azora gorge
or to mourn for wanting to cut off their noses. The king calmed her
pain with gifts, but fell dead envious of regret and shame. Enjoyed
the rule of peace, glory and wealth, and this was the most flourishing
century world, governed by love and justice. All blessed Zadig, and
Zadig blessed Heaven