 

We're on the case to clarify the indications of hellebore, all indications are well characterized
and is not perhaps possible to find in the medical field of supply means to their effectiveness:
1. º in Asiatic cholera and the Indians in the large and fast disturbances digestive functions, although
the result of indigestion, but there are evacuations repeated and more or less numerous from vomiting
and diarrhea, that the subject of these evacuations is watery, not produced, with white lumps
in the liquid supernatant, character of bowel movements confirmed cholera, which is pale, cold extremity
in the skin that turns earthy and flabby; the eyes are sunken, surrounded by a blue circle, and
presents cramps of the extremities. Hellebore has been very effective in the cholerine simple diarrhea,
presented by the influence of the epidemic, many observations prove further its preventive
power of anger, and be given alone, and alternated with copper, which also adapts to the deep affection
of the nervous system and more particularly to the cramps.

2. No In certain febrile illnesses usually fast or intermittent, which dominates the cold, the
exterior of all, it only shows the heat inside, the urine is dark, and there is cold sweat on
the trunk and forehead. Vomiting and droppings alvine would only confirm more and more the
need of hellebore. There are still ataxic fevers and serious nervous disorders, with long and violent
cold, heat, limited to the viscera, or also concentrated on the head or chest, and characterized
by palpitations and distress, and, in the stomach and intestines, by a profound disturbance
of the innervation and manure for repeated cold sweats in the head just a few times, with spasms
muscle or general convulsions, and sometimes violent pains in a column about vertebral or
elsewhere, and the lack of debris. In these cases, may be preferred camphor and its action as
readily be useful, if no evacuations or not dominate the scene.

Hellebore makes women menstrual evacuation trifles, when a cold glacial the extremities or the
skin in general looks like it contains the catamenial flow. This medicine is also very useful
in some vomiting of blood, with very cold exterior, accompanied spasms, anxiety, palpitations and
heat inside. In similar circumstances, hellebore should uncontrollable vomiting in pregnancy
in epileptic seizures, in whooping cough, in hysteria, in asthma, in the latter two cases there is thirst
and diarrhea after dinner, and all indications of this medicine can be seen small pulse and
frequent, sometimes almost extinguished; cold exterior, hoarseness, cold sweats, muscle weakness
and great depression, even when the condition lasts only two or three days, emaciation, sunken eyes,
cold skin, wrinkled, without elasticity.

Dry cough and hoarse with spiders or tingling in the throat, usually without noticeable symptoms,
sometimes cured with hellebore, and only, and alternating with nux vomica or the sundew. It is also
effective in dry coryza ozena with slight swelling of the nose with periostitis, in some diarrhea
caused by cold drinks, headache and great weakness hysterical hemicráneas muscle excess hunger in
nursing; disposition to fade after having out of an acute, severe, dyspepsia with vomiting and
constipation food rebellious, or just the latter, people are always hungry and they are filled
promptly in hypochondriacal and maniacs.

In hypochondriasis with extreme weakness and anguish, and strangulated hernia, can hellebore, because
it does not heal, a change that facilitate the action of other medicines, or administered in
large doses, develop a pro-development disturbance row of special effects, as seen when used in
certain hobbies with agitation and delirium, in madness essential to lubricity, constipation,
tympanitis, horripilation and jumping muscle. Be made for the distinction in constipation and
diarrhea of hellebore, that this and vomiting exist when the brain is not affected, while constipation
requires that the effects of the medication you have been disturbed and this delirium, hallucinations,
or that there is a state of tension in the nervous system relationship is as compressed by violent
neuralgia, with despair. These neuralgias the hellebore are presented accessibility are dislacerantes,
and general phenomena are: prostration sweating or cold, rigors, anxiety and heart palpitations,
although there feeling cold, warm bed aggravates them. Hellebore, in short, is most suitable in pain
headache and headache with cold at the apex, or with a sensation of cold and heat alternate,
which headaches in the heat, beat and symptoms of congestion.

= Dose .=-- generally be preferred lower dose, from 2 to 3 drops of
the tincture even some blood in the third and Eighteenth attenuation.

These amounts are given by fractions more or less repeated, according to the urgency of evil.
It is not for this work to try violent effects of elimination, the purgative doses, emetic,
and other indications spreading of the law of similars, but only, of the dose, which, though considerable,
are apt to develop special effects that are within the purview of this law therapy.

Zinc (ZINC).

§ I. - History.

The zinc metal and zinc oxide are the only experiments and whose effects are similar, so we only
attend these two substances reuiniéndolas under the same name. We believe, however, that the
action of various zinc salts have enough similarities accurate with
the metal and its oxide.

The zinc oxide was the only previously used in elephantiasis, smallpox, whooping cough, nervous
asthma, the chronic heartburn, hysteria, chorea, epilepsy, seizures partial ophthalmia, fetid
ulcers, chapped skin, lips and nipples, in the excoriation of children and some deterioration of
sight. Zinc sulfate has been preferred gonorrhoeae injections, and nerve and eruptive fevers, palpitations,
neuralgia, tetanus ..... Zinc preparations in general were regarded as antispasmodic and antiherpetic
and dried but merely nominal indications of disease for which they advocated were so vague, which
is completed by to forget almost everything and considering the zinc
as an antispasmodic unfaithful.

§ II .-- physiological and therapeutic effects.

The effects of zinc express their positive properties.

Its action on the nervous system elective lymph node is not in doubt, for she explanations the particularities
of their effects on the nervous system and the circulation ratio, and it shows their influence
on the skin and mucous membranes.

This elective action of zinc is depressing, almost to the abolition
of physiological orgasm: the sensation of cold penetrates to the bone,
there are violent tremors throughout the body, weakness excess, the
reluctance to move, numbness, the sensation of cold leads to this
state by an exaltation of sensibility and contractility, and in spite
of all symptoms have a tendency asthenic, is also preceded by other
symptoms of irritation blood without peer and an asthenic character
and venous.

Espondrémos the main symptoms to go the various indications of this Medication: 1. º in some catarrhal
fever in children encephalitis and hydrocephalus after aconite and belladonna, when nervous
state predominates, and in this initial period irritative fever which is manifested by rigors,
tremor of the limbs, shivering with cold exterior and interior heat, thirst, nausea or vomiting,
urination and clear contraction of the pupils, dryness of mucosal surfaces, in estincion symptoms
of the vital forces of paralysis or incipient hydrocephalus, encephalitis,
and in exanthematous fevers of children in the last period;

2. º
Pneumon Under certain conditions, liver, stomach, uterus, in consequence
of erethism that ensues after a convulsion, neuralgia, a shock: in
these circumstances it develops a nervous general, indeterminate or
nervous fever with chills and tremors, there are also, according to
the site of the condition, tightness, cough, bloody expectoration,
heat sensation in the chest, stitches, palpitations, irregular jerking
movements heart, stitches in the hypochondria, tension and tenderness
in the liver region, bloating, constipation, heat and throbbing in
the abdomen, cramping, expulsion of gas, diarrhea mucosa and even
bloody excess sensitivity of the genitals, hysterical symptoms, burning
sensation when urinating, bloody urine, pressure and tension hypogastric,
lumbago;

3. º in some subacute Flogos mucous membranes, and in particular
the eye with redness in the wattles, dryness, burning pain, excoriation,
oozing in them; inflammation sometimes the edge of the eyelids and
mucus flow purulent ophthalmia blennorrhagic that first fight with
appropriate medication to the cause and to the acuity, as mercury,
belladonna, lime sulfur, etc. ...., in subacute phlogosis Finally,
the urethra, vagina and rectum, with serous exudation, or purulent
mucus, itching, pruritus, sensation of excoriation and burning;

4.

No congestion in some varicose veins of the lower abdomen, constipation and symptoms of chronic gastritis
or enteritis, hypochondria, nervousness, and that great moral susceptibility; hematuria or
vomiting usually occur; in dysmenorrhea and retardation of the rules by spasmodic affection,
and metrorrhagia failure, or at least in excess menstruation and advance, in the provision of abortion
for the same cause of congestion or venous stasis and internal varices; in varicose disease of lower
limbs, frostbite and rubicundeces irritant of the skin of the nose and the mucosa with dry coryza ozena;

5.
No cracks in the nipple and particularly of mucous membranes in the limits of the skin, the
lips, genitals, noses, at the corners of the eyes, in some cases itching, especially in the joints,
chronic impetigo, herpes dry crusty very old, and several other herpes
sores and irritated edges, which are developed grains or small boils;

6.
º in arthritic and rheumatic pain complicated with general weakness
and swelling chronically affected joints, in dislacerantes of rheumatic
pains, when aggravated by heat and movement on all the excitement
and blood determines and is characterized by swelling of the superficial
veins;

7.

No access in certain spasmodic hysterical, or epileptic, screaming in principle; but rather
in the habitual state of irritability of the persons so affected, in a sort of nymphomania
in postpartum women, from an irritation of the organs genital diminution of milk secretion,
and dysmenorrhea or amenorrhea resulting of masturbation with irritation of the exterior parts
of the genital organs;

8. º In hypochondriasis accompanied by spasms, muscle tremors, sensitivity
general outdoor forced to rest, restless sleep, despair and suicidal
thoughts;

9. º in some isolated paralysis that slowly unfold through
major upheavals nerve neuralgia or in consequence of repeated, in
a state of wasting and weakness general muscular; in amaurosis which
develops slowly, in consequence of conditions of this kind or arthritis.

= Dose .=-- will be used as graphite.

The exterior local conditions demand the use of zinc mainly within, but be very convenient in injections,
lotions or ointments, and in these cases, and is being used zinc oxide or the inside, you
can easily use the exterior zinc sulfate.

The outdoor use of zinc preparations requires great care, because a large dose, easily suppressed
his irritation that causes herpetic nature rebels in their changing forms both exterior and interior,
to the great detriment of patients who are believed cured of those rashes on the vulva, eyelids ...
and have only managed to transform this slight colds disease, chronic
Stomach and more uncomfortable and often serious.

These metastases, we say in passing, sometimes consist of dangerous repercussions, impact
is also frequently observed by the use of sulfurous mineral waters, whose action, in people herpes
is very remarkable, and yet rather neglected by Unfortunately. Deputies and the Academy of Jurisprudence
and Legislation

Plaza del Príncipe Don Alfonso, no. 8, Madrid.

ALVAREZ DE ARAUJO AND NECK. Homeopathic Medicine Directory Year .-- I. - Contents: 1. º prologue
the author, 2. No dates that recall key events in the life and scientific
work Hahnemann 3. º Madrid urban hygiene, 4.

No country life, compared with that of large populations under the hygienic point of view, 5.
No human longevity 6.

No notes for history of Homeopathy in Spain, 7. º some news about the state of Homeopathy outside Spain,
8. º aphoristic exposition of the doctrine of Hahnemann Medical 9. No objections commonly are
made to homeopathy, and its refutation, 10. º why the action of drugs homeopathic, and how physically
show, 11. º some concerns about the value characteristic symptoms
- by Boenninghaussen, 12.

No manual of materia medica, or be Summary of major pathogenic effects
of 45 drugs (new) with indications clinics.

Madrid, 1862. An atom in 8. º, 16 rs. in Madrid and 19 provinces, postage paid.

Arostegui. Method abridged condom instruction and homeopathic treatment
Cholera-epidemic morbidity, Madrid, 1854.

A brochure at 8. º, 4 rs. in Madrid and 6 provinces postage paid.

Boenninghausen. The sides of the body, as also the affinities of drugs. Studies homeopathic.
Work translated from German into French by Ph. de Molinari, individual Societies homeopathic
medicine in Paris, Belgium, Holland, and other scientific societies. Poured French to Castilian, Dr.
JPH. Ant Alvarez-Peralta, individuals in society Hahnemannian Matritense, the Philanthropic Society
of Paris-magnetic, etc. 1857. At 8. º, 4 rs. Madrid and 5 provinces, postage paid.

CHARGE.

Homeopathic treatment, preventive and curative Cholera epidemic;
instruction popular guide that can serve in the absence of a doctor.

Translated from French by Dr. D. JMG Barcelona, ??1854. A booklet in 18. No, a real in Madrid
and 2 in the provinces, postage paid.

CHEPMELL. New Manual of Homeopathy home, reduced to its true limits, with some instructions on diet
and regimen, translated from the fifth edition under the direction DJ Sanllehy. Barcelona,
??1856. An atom in 8. º, 12 rs. in Madrid and 14 provinces, ex- note.

CROSERIO. Homeopathic Manual of Obstetrics - Relief that homeopathy can provide art of deliveries.
Havana, 1855. A volume of 12. º, 16 rs. in Madrid and 18 provinces, postage paid.

Cruxent. Hustler homeopaths and Dr. D. Antonio Mendoza. Barcelona,
??1853.

A brochure 8. º, 6 rs. in Madrid and 8 provinces, postage paid.

Cruxent.

Edifying and instructive letters Homeopathy, addressed to a person fair sex. Barcelona, ??1857.
An atom in 4. º, 16 rs. in Madrid and 20 provinces, postage paid.

Cruxent. Cholera, homeopathy and allopathy, or whether rules of hygiene, preventive and curative which may
be useful to consult before and after the anger has begun to voice their effects. Cuba, 1850.

Homeopathy
manual DICTIONARY, by DMPE Madrid, 1856.

A volume in 18. º, 10 rs. in Madrid and 12 provinces, postage paid.

ESPANET.

Methodical and practical treatise Materia Medica and therapeutics, based on the law of similar,
translated from French into Spanish for the teacher and homeopath D. Pio Hernandez Espeso.
Madrid, 1862. 2 volumes in 8. Number of about 500 pages each, 40 rs. Madrid and 46 provinces, postage
paid.

ESPANET.

Homeopathy basic studies and practical applications for use by physicians, clergy, religious
communities, families, etc., translated into Spanish under the direction
D. Juan Sanllehy.

Barcelona.

FLEURY. Homeopathy at the reach of everyone; translated from French into Castilian. Cadiz, 1840. An
atom in 4. º, 8 rs. in Madrid and 9 provinces, postage paid.

GARCIA LOPEZ. The poisoning or malaria .-- paludiana full Treaty intermittent fevers, senders
and continuous, the neuropathy, cachexia and other diseases that
occur by malarial miasma with medical geography of Spain in its relations
with these conditions: by D. Anastasio Garcia Lopez, former inmate
of the Central School, medical director of bathrooms minerals, etc.
Madrid, 1861.

An atom in 4. º, 24 rs. in Madrid and 28 provinces, postage paid.

GAUTHIER. Practical Treatise of Magnetism, or a summary of all the principles and procedures used
to this day, translated into Castilian by D. Isidoro Manuel de Villanueva.

Second edition. Madrid, 1856. A volume, 24 rs. in Madrid and 28 provinces, postage paid.

GUYARD.

Allopathic medicine, judged by the same doctors. Madrid, 1848. An atom in 4. º, 14 rs.

HAAS. Homeopathic Physician's Manual, or homeopathy to everyone. Havana, 1855. In 18. º, 26 rs. in Madrid
and 30 postage paid through the mail.

Hahnemann. Exposition of the homeopathic medical doctrine, ú Organon of the healing art. Third edition,
arranged at the French sixth, and augmented with life and portrait
of the author, published by Dr. D. Juan Sanllehy.

Barcelona. An atom in 4. º, 22 rs. in Madrid and 26 provinces postage paid.

HARTMANN.

Homeopathic Therapeutics of the Diseases of Children, translated
from German to French, with notes, by Dr. Leon Simon, Jr., and French
into Castilian under the direction D. Roman Fernandez del Rio, MD,
surgery, etc.. Madrid, 1853.

HARTMANN. Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia, fifth edition translated from the German. Barcelona, ??1846.
An atom in 8. º, 6 rs. in Madrid and 7 provinces, postage paid.

HARTMANN.

Practical Treatise on homeopathic treatment of acute and chronic diseases; translated into
French German edition by AJL Jourdan, a member of the National Academy of Paris, and French into
Castilian by D. Pio Hernandez and Thick, homeopathic doctor, professor
homeopathy in the Spanish Institute, founder of the Institute homeopathic,
etc. Madrid, 1863.

2 volumes in 8. º marquilla .-- .-- SECOND EDITION (In press).

HEMPELL. Homoeopathic domestic medicine of the people. Havana, 1857. An atom in 8. º, 26 rs.
in Madrid and 30 provinces, postage paid.

HERING. Domestic homeopathy, or Guide to families so that their individuals can homoeopathically
themselves treated in most cases, and the urgent and serious provide
effective aid to the sick until the arrival of a homeopathic physician,
by Dr. C. Hering (Philadelphia).

Third Spanish edition, under the last edition published by the same author (which is quite
different from above), and to the fourth French edition; translated
into Spanish, reviewed, edited, annotated and considerably increased,
by D. Angel Alvarez de Araujo and Cuellar, honorary member of the
Homeopathic Medical Society of France etc. The enlarged part contains:
a brief exposition of the doctrines medical, general notions hygiene;
news on the climate of the West Indies and the Philippines, rules
of hygiene and acclimatization, to be observed in them by the Europeans;
foods they are allowed and forbidden being sick, treatment to be followed
in most dreaded diseases of those countries of the Americas in general,
Asia and the coast of Africa, and in some other cases of illness common
in certain provinces of Spain, such as suette, etc., etc., anthropology,
temperaments and medications that are appropriate and to the different
ages and sexes; prophylaxis of hereditary diseases.

Unique work of its kind. Madrid, 1861. A volume of 8. º, more than 700 pages, good printing and
paper eSCelente. It sells at 24 rs. in Madrid and 28 in provinces, postage paid.

HIRSCHEL. Homeopathic Physician's Guide to the bedside and repertoire of homeopathic therapy.
Translated from German into French by Dr. Leon Simon, son, and this in Spanish, by D. Silverio
Rodriguez Lopez. Madrid, 1859.

JAHR. New manual of homeopathic medicine. Part I: Manual of Materia Medica, or Summary of the main effects
of homeopathic medicines, with a display of the observations clinics. Part II: Code therapeutic or symptomatic,
or alphabetical tables the main symptoms of homeopathic medicines with clinical alerts, translated
from Castilian French to the last edition, by D. Silverio Rodriguez Lopez, homeopathic physician.
Second Spanish edition. Madrid, 1858. 4 volumes in 8. º, 80 rs. in Madrid and 96 provinces postage
paid.