 Julia took care of the child and had, so to speak, adopted had died
the day before evening. Magdalena was driving near the coffin containing the little corpse and
tried to kiss him, to return wept and repeated the phrase my child with acute pain as I announced
far and wide scope of a gnawing pain that their existence and which was bitterly jealous.

I left early and went to Julia M. D'Orsel words of thanks which I tried say with the greatest serenity
possible. Then, not knowing how to fill the day and not having interest, so to speak, in the
use of a life that I felt detached from minute to minute, I went to put her elbows on the railing
that fell on the trenches and stayed there do not know how time. I did not know where it was Magdalena.
From time to time I could hear his voice in view corridors or moving from one court to another,
it also wandering without purpose other than to move. There at the base of one of the turrets
in the manner of a cave half blocked in other times served as a door to escape. The bridge that
linked the park rides was destroyed. It were not more than three pillars, partly submerged, the
muddy water soiled waste pit sparkling. I do not know what idea came to hide there for the rest
of the day. I went from one to another pillar and hid in that room dilapidated, foot tapping
the current in the dismal gloom of the vast and deep pit where the water ran laundry. Two or three
times I saw Magdalena came out and marched to the malls as who is looking for someone. Disappeared
and returned again, hesitated between three or four roads leading from the parterre to the
confines of the park and finally took one of them covered elms, which ended in ponds. I spent
a jump from one to the other side and followed her. Was quickly, his secured bad field hat over
his ears, wrapped in a cashmere wide that hugged the body like you have very cold. He turned
his head to see that I approached suddenly turned and retraced his steps, passed me without looking
at winning the steps of and rose parterre. I caught when he reached the door of the parlor that
served as a toilet in which I used to spend the day.

- You help me fold my shawl - I said.

He was the soul and eyes elsewhere. The wide color fabric was folded with us in the direction
of its length and it was not just a narrow band which each we held one end. Either by apathy
or weakness, the garment is slipped through Magdalena hands. He took a step backwards first staggered,
then fell forward and fainted in my arms. I grabbed it, held it a few seconds so glued to my chest,
head back, eyes closed, cold lips, half dead and alienated the influence my kisses.

Suddenly a terrible contraction shook her, opened his eyes, sat up on the tip toes to reach up
and throwing my arms around my neck with all her strength she went to turn kissed me.

I grabbed her again, reduced it to defend himself like a dam that is being discussed against a desperate
embrace. He had the notion that we were lost and cried. I feel ashamed to say it: that cry of
agony awakened in me that I was just instinct of man's mercy. I realized that the killing, did
not distinguish whether it was his honor or his life. I have no why boast of an act of generosity
that was almost involuntary, so small a part you it corresponded to the true human consciousness.
I dropped the dam as a beast that has stopped biting. The dear victim made a supreme effort.
Work was useless: I do not already had. Then with a loss that has made me estimate what is
the remorse of a honest woman with a fear that I would have tried, had I been in a position
to reflect what degree of relaxation I saw her small, as if she understood instinctively that there
was for us or discernment of duty, no consideration or respect, that this sympathy of pure instinct
was just an accident that could deny, with a gesture that startled me, that still surrounds
these old memories in a world of terror and shame, Magdalena moved quickly toward the back
door without walking away Me eyes, as we proceed with a criminal, he won the aisle and once
again he and ran.

I had lost consciousness while I remained standing.

As I dragged myself to my room, only had one desire, that I found collapsed on the stairs.
Arrived I had my door, even before opening it, and I was unable to sustain more. Mechanically,
I made sure nobody was in the corridor. The last sentiment that still retains a moment was
that Madeleine was safe, and I collapsed on the floor.

Right there I recovered one or two hours, at night, with the memory inconsistent a dreadful
scene. The bell announced that dinner was ready and had to go down. I moved, his legs were
free, but it seemed as if he had been struck in the head. Thanks to that paralysis, very real, he
felt a general feeling of great sorrow, but not thought about it. The first mirror which looked
at me, showed me the face strangely a haggard ghost, something like that could hardly recognize
me. Magdalena did not attend the dining room and I was almost immaterial whether it was or
elsewhere. Julia, tired, sorry or worried about her sister, and probably full of suspicion, because in
that case unique clairvoyant girl and reserved all the assumptions were allowed. Julia was not
not join us in the lounge. I had therefore only to Mr. D'Orsel, nearly half of the evening, was
inert, insensible, and as if I had frozen the blood, so little sense to think I was so exhausted
and was force to move.

It was about ten when he entered Magdalene, changed to be scary, unknown, with aspect of a convalescent
to whom death has touched.

- My father - said with a tone of unyielding courage .-- I need to
be alone for a moment with M. de Bray.

Mr. D'Orsel rose without hesitation, he kissed his daughter and fraternal
left.

- Do you leave tomorrow? - I said, standing as I was too.

-
Yes - I answered.

- And we will not see each other again!

Nothing I said.

- Never - continued - what do you mean? ever. I put the only obstacle between us that no idea
can separate return.

I threw myself at her feet, took his hands without resist, sobbing. Had a moment of weakness that
cut him short, took his hands and give me them back as soon as there regained its strength.

-
I will do my best to forget. You olvídeme. That will be easier still. Get married, later,
when you want.

Do not imagine that his wife might be jealous of me because when that might happen I'll be dead or I
will be happy - concluded with a thrill that before was not brought
down .-- Farewell.

I was kneeling, arms outstretched, waiting for a sweeter phrase that she uttered. A last reaction
of weakness or pity snatched.

- My poor friend! Achieve this was fatal. If you knew how much I love him! I would not told
you yesterday, today I can confess because it is the forbidden word
between us.

She recently was exhausted, had found a miracle I do not know what that resource under lent strong
enough. I had none.

I think that even added two or three words that I did not understand,
then walked away sweetly as a vision that fades away and not see her
again, or that night or the next day or anymore.

At daybreak I left without seeing anyone.

Avoided through Paris and became lead directly home that lived in a suburb far Augustine. It
was Sunday and found him with his family.

At first glance I realized that something terrible had happened. Assumed that there Magdalena died
because his perfect honesty of a man and husband, could not conceive of greater misery. When
I told him the true accident that reduced me to one of those situations that are not never confess,
I said:

- I do not know that kind of punishment, but I pity you with all my heart.

And I never doubted that I was sorry from the bottom of the heart, little to reason about worst
disasters that could assume the uncertain future of his own life.

He worked when he was surprised. His wife was near him in her lap a little boy six months had
been born during my exile. They were happy. His situation was thriving: I could see several signs
of relative affluence. The night was terrifying: a storm end of autumn lasted without interruption
from the afternoon until after dawn. In the monotonous lullaby of that constant and long sound
of the wind and rain, but did not think in the tumult that occur
around the room and the dream of Magdalena, where he slept.

My strength was not thinking beyond the puerile and purely physical sense. Dissipated the storm, Augustine
forced me out since the morning. Could have an hour before to return to Paris. I took the forest, ravaged
by the night wind, the water ran trails still flooded and swept the last leaves of the year.

And walked a long time before I could pick the shade of a lucid idea
among urgent determinations had led me to the home of Augustine.

I remembered to order I had to say goodbye to him. At first he thought it was a desperate resolution
born from insomnia, do not resist the action of prudential considerations, but, when became
convinced that my determination dated back further, which was the result of reflections no reply
and that would take place later or earlier, and did not discuss or opinion that I myself had formed,
and the trial that had formed on my time and I simply said

- I think and reason about more or less like you. I admit not much but I do not think much lower
than most people, but I have no right you have to be consistent to
the extreme.

You defects modestly, I'm staying, not bragging but by necessity
and before that as a duty.

- I am very tired and need rest anyway.

We parted in Paris saying "au revoir" as is usually done when cost
much effort to pronounce a final farewell, but provide neither the
place nor the time we could meet again.

I had few issues to fix and charge them my servant. I was only to say goodbye to Oliver. He
was preparing to leave France. I asked about my stay in Nièvre: just me had guessed that all
was over.

There was no reason to speak of Julia, he did not need to say anything
about Magdalena.

The ties that had joined us for about ten years had just broken at the same time at least for
a long time.

- Try to be happy - I said, as if not count on it for me or for him.

Three days after my departure was Ormesson Nièvre. I spent the night near Mrs. of Ceyssac, to
which my back made it clear many things and made me understand that there often regretted my
mistakes with the tender pity pious woman and almost mother.

The next day, not take me an hour's rest in this deplorable race I leading to litter like a wounded
animal that bleeds and does not falter in the middle of way, the next day afternoon, almost into
the night, I came to Villanueva. I got out near and the village: the car continued down the
road and I took a road trip that took me my home in the marshes.

For four days and four nights a restraining fixed pain my heart and eyes were as dry as if he
had never cried. By taking the first step on the road had Trembles as a resurgence of memories
that pain was most intense, but less tight.

It was very cold.

The ground was hard, night had almost closed, so that the line the
coast and the sea horizon formed a single compact and almost black.

A last residue red light was dying slowly and pale minute by minute.

In the distance, near the escarpment, he spent a wagon; perceived the clatter and rattling
of the wheels on the frozen soil. The water of the marsh was frozen, and only in some places, wide
puddles fresh water was not frozen yet, still moving slowly and remained whitish. The clock
struck six of the Church of Villanueva. So deep was the silence and and darkness, which seemed
to midnight.

He walked over the ridge of land flooded and not know why I was reminded
of another time on those sites themselves and nights like he had hunted
ducks.

Heard above my head that produce rapid whisper these birds flying
very fast.

I saw a flash and the explosion of a shot stopped me.

A hunter came out of hiding, down to the marsh and I heard the splashing of his feet in the water,
another spoke.

In that brief exchange of words spoken quietly, but that night made
it very clear, I made a tone of voice that impressed me.

- Andrew!
- I cried.

There was a moment of silence.

- Andrew! - I cried again.

- What? - I replied the hunter. And I could not hesitate.

Andrew took a few steps toward me. I looked barely even exceeded almost his whole body the dark
ravine. Moved slowly, almost in the dark, trod that way by the legs of the animal, repeating, "Who's
there? Who calls me? "With increasing emotion and as if each moment hesitate to acknowledge at least
calling him when I thought so far.

- Andrew! - I told him a third time when he had given no more than two or three steps.

- How? What? ... Ah, sir, Mr. Domingo! - Said dropping his gun.

- Yes, I am, myself, my old Andrew.

I threw myself into the arms of my old server. At last my heart so much compression, by itself, v
burst into tears freely dilated.

XVIII

Dominic had finished his story. Stopped after these last words, spoken with the precipitation of
a man who is quick and saddened that expression of modesty that generally follows the expansions
too intimate. What similar confidences must have cost a gloomy consciousness for so long closed,
and I adivinábalo thanked him with a gesture which touched only answered him with a nod. He
had opened the letter from Oliver as funeral presided farewell, so
to speak, of this relationship and was standing, eyes turned to the
window which was framed in a peaceful horizon of plain water.

Remained so for some time keeping awkward silence that I would not
break.

He was pale, his face slightly impaired by fatigue or rejuvenated by the passionate splendor of
another era, gradually regained their age, their peculiar expression and appearance of great serenity.
The day went as peace was established memories also on his face. The shadows were invading the
dusty interior of the little drowned room where they ended that long series of evocations of
which more than one had been painful. From the inscriptions on the
wall and could not tell much of anything. Image inside as well as
the former pale at the same time as if all that past resurrected accidentally
re-entered the moment and not go out in the vague fading of the night
and forgetting.

The voices of the farmers who passed along the walls
of the park took us to two from a real trouble, doubt, shut up or
resume a truncated conversation.

- This is the time to get down -
said Sunday, and followed him to the farm in which each evening at
that hour care monitoring was complete.

The oxen were returning from
work and this was the time when the farm is encouraged. Yoked two
or three couples, for because of the weight of wet lands was necessary
triple yoke, rudder came dragging the plow, his nose swollen and wet
low horns, jaws rough, muddy even in the womb. Stock animals who had
not worked one day, bellowed in the stables waiting for the arrival
of its assets peers. Beyond the flock of sheep, and locked up, stirred
in the corral, horses pawing and neighing to feel that the crop fell
on the stairs above mangers.

Workers lined up next to the master,
bareheaded and looking tired.

Sunday carefully inquired if any new
farm implements application had yielded the expected results, then
gave his orders for the next day, the multiple, especially with reference
to seed, and I realized that not all grain whose distribution pointed
out, was destined to their own fields, had long lost, advances made
or alms