 Then again recommended, since even before
I had done the chief of staff, secrecy regarding its investigation.

By the officer also knew the Count Don Braulio did no more than a month that was Madrid, which enjoyed
a salary of 3,000 pesetas, less discount, who had a reputation of excellent employee, that would
justify to work which the Minister entrusted to him, that he was a man of forty-five to fifty years
of age but looked older, because it was rather bald and very sickly, and that only took three
years of marriage had no children; his wife, Dona Beatriz, and his wife's sister, named Ines,
were a place the province of Cordoba, where he had been Manager of Revenue, that shortly after
wedding had been moved to Seville to rise, which in Seville he and his family had lived far
removed from the treatment of people, who now lived on Olive Street in third floor of a house
whose number is also given, and they were all so ferrets, barely were treated in Madrid with
a living soul.

Count heard all, returned to his thoughts and calculations. Had taken the first step; but it
was necessary to take the second.

I already knew who was dealing with, but that's nothing served if he failed to communicate
wisely with Don Braulio and his family.

The Count was far from being a reckless infinity.

While She did not draw any danger, if it did not hurt having to risk
the skin, always feared a coup in vague, do some anything that might
put you in awkward and ridiculous situation.

This was more afraid, not that of a naked sword, but fifteen machine guns were firing at him.

Given
this its natural condition, the difficulties were not small.

How to be present in a house where one of its kind, and perhaps no other no any class, came
to visit? What excuse to claim snapped right out in the house of
those poor people?

The presentation is the most right to know and treat people, but the Count did not feel the shameless enough
to be presented there.

Would you write a love note to enter into relationships?

Letters of this kind, use, usefulness, disadvantages and advantages,
the Count, who, according to we have said, was very circumspect and
tidy, had made its laws and made their considerations, to which always
tried to adjust their behavior.

Write a love for women seemed an
excellent resource. Almost all give more solemnity and the significance
of what he writes that what they speak. Many things that offend or
blush when they hear the weigh and ponder, and delight them with loving
pleasure when read