 During sleep,
it must have been long and not quiet, rather shaken by the images and nightmares characteristic of
the excitement of my brain, felt the roar of gunfire, the voices of the battle, the noise
of the surging waves. At the same time I dreamed that I was firing the pieces, that rose to the
rigging, sweeping the artillery batteries encouraging, and until commanded maneuver at the quarter-deck
as an admiral. Suffice to say that was at odds forged battle within my own brain, I beat all
the English have or might have, more easily than if your boat out of cardboard, and bread crumb
its bullets. I had under my logo as a thousand ships, over all the Trinidad, and moved on
a whim as accurately as toys with my friends and I had fun in the puddles La Caleta.

But at last, all these glories faded, which, being as they were purely
dream, no wonder, when we see the real also vanish.

It was over when I opened my eyes and I saw my littleness, associated with the magnitude of disasters
that had attended. But strange thing!, Awake, gunfire also felt, I felt the awful rumor the fray,
and shouts that heralded a major activity in the crew. I thought I still dream; I sat on the
couch where he slept, attended with care, and, indeed, a thunderous Long live the King cry hurt
my ears, leaving no doubt that the ship was Santa Ana beating again.

I went outside, and I take care of the situation. The weather had calmed down considerably:
on the windward some ships were dismantled, and two of them British,
were firing on the Santa Ana, who defended under two others, one Spanish
and one French.

I explained that sudden change in our situation of prisoners, looked aft and saw our flag floating
instead of English. What had happened?, Or rather, what happened?

In the quarter-deck was one that I knew was General Álava, and, though wounded in several parts of
his body, showed strong enough to run that second battle for perhaps
to make people forget about the Santa Ana misadventures of the first.
