 

And recovering his manly bearing of Amazon, confident, returned to the bank, indicating Rafael
to sit at the other end.

- What a night! ... I'm drunk without drinking. The orange I get drunk with his breath. An hour ago
I felt that my room was spinning, that I was the head, the bed seemed a ship in full storm.
I have lost as usual and here I have you until the can sleep more
than the beauty of the night.

He spoke languidly, abandoned, with trembling voice and tremors of the chest as if the anguish
that perfume, compressing its powerful vitality.

Rafael saw a short distance, white, sculpted, wrapped in haik they are covered when moving
from the bed bath, the first thing he found to hand down the garden.

And under the fine wool, delatábanse the warm curves with the scent of meat healthy, strong and
clean, through the fabric, blended with orange virgin breath.

- I was afraid to see him - he continued, his voice slow and dull,
- a little afraid of nothing, the natural surprise, however, was thinking
of you at that time.

I confess. I said, 'What will that crazy at this hour? ", And suddenly you are presented here
as a ghost. You could not sleep excited by that environment, and
has come to tempt you back luck with the same hope that led him sometimes.

He

spoke without his usual irony, softly, as if conversing with herself. Rested with abandoned
his bust in the back of the bench with one arm crossed behind his head.

Rafael tried to speak again of his repentance, that desire to kneel before the house to ask for forgiveness
mutely we slept above, but Leonora interrupted him again.

- Shut up you and speaks very loud and could hear him. My aunt sleeps on the other side of the house
has light sleeper ... Also, do not want to hear any of remorse and
forgiveness.

That reminds me the shame of that morning. Can not tell you enough that I allowed to be here?
Of all I remember ... Shut up, Rafael! Best savored in silence the beauty of night, it seems that
the field speaks to the moon and the echo of his words are these waves of perfume that surround
us.

And he was silent and motionless with eyes on high, reflected in their
corneas light the moon with a tearful moisture.

Rafael saw occasionally shake your body with mysterious tremors, extended his arms after crossing
the golden hair with stretched that crunched the white envelope, putting stress voluptuous
all its members. Seemed upset, sick, her panting breath taking at times the rattling of sobbing,
bowed head on his shoulder and vented his chest with endless sighs.

The young man obediently silent, fearing that the memory of his courage emerged once again awkward
in conversation, but are not to shorten the distance separating them in the bank. She as though
divining the thought of Rafael, spoke slowly when the abnormal state was.

- I do not know why I have this night. I mourn not know why, I feel in me an inexplicable happiness,
and yet prorrumpiría into tears. It is the spring that damned perfume is a whip for my nerves.
I think I'm crazy ... Spring! My best friend and no I owe more than bitterness! If I did something
crazy in my life, she has been the minister ... It's youth reborn in us, the madness that makes
the annual visit ... And I, true provided to it, adoring, awaiting
his arrival about a year in this corner to see appear in his best
suit, crowned with orange blossoms like a virgin, a virgin evil that
pays I love to shock!

... Look what has brought me. I do not know what sick: sick excess life pushes me do not know where,
probably where I should not go ... If it were not for my force will fall lying on the bank. I'm
like the drunk who make efforts to stay on your lap and go straight.

It was true, she was sick. Each time his eyes were more tearful, his body trembling, seemed to shrink,
collapse on itself, like life, like a dilated fluid, seek escape from every pore.

He paused again for a long time to look vague and lost in the infinite,
and suddenly muttered and answering their memories:

- No one else
knew this.

He knew everything, no one felt like the mystery of the hidden forces Nature, and sang like
a god of spring. Hans told me many times and it's true.

He added, without turning his head, his voice wanders from a sleepwalker.

-
Rafael, you do not know The Valkyrie, right?; Not heard the song of
spring.

No, the deputy did not know what he was asked. And Leonora, always with eyes on the moon the
neck resting on his arms, escaping pearly, strong, round sleeves falls, spoke slowly, evoking
memories, watching before his imagination the scene of intense poetry, the glorification and
the triumph of nature and love.

Hunding's hut, barbaric and gruesome trophies with wild fur, revealing the brutal existence of
man scarcely possessed the world in perpetual struggle with the elements and beasts. The eternal
fugitive, forgotten of his father, Sigmund, who himself is given by name Despair, years and
years wandering through the forests, harassed by wild beasts, create
a beast you saw him covered with skins, rests at the foot of the giant
order Ash holding the cabin, and drinking mead in the horn that offers
the sweet Sieglinde known for the first time the existence of love,
looking into their innocent eyes.

The husband, Hunding, the fierce hunter, he bids farewell dinner at the end of the rustic "Your
father was the Wolf and I am of the race of hunters. Until the day my house protects you you
are my guest, but so the sun goes back, you are my enemy and fight ... Woman preparing the
drink of the night and let's go to bed. "

And the exile left alone by the fire, thinking of his immense loneliness. No home, no family,
or the miraculous sword promised her father the Wolf. And when the day break, the cottage that
shelters him, the enemy will have to kill him. The memory of the woman who went out their
thirst, the sparkle of those candid eyes, wrapping him in a look of pity and love, the only
thing holding you ... She arrives, after leaving the fierce companion
asleep.

Le ash teaches the hilt of the sword that sank the god Wotan, no one can pluck; obey only the hand
of the one for whom God has destined.

And while she speaks the wandering savage contemplates ecstatic, like a white apparition reveals
the existence in the world more than the strength and struggle. It is love that speech. Slowly
approaches, the hugs, close to his chest, and the door opens impelled by the breeze and the
forest appears green and fragrant in the light of the moon, spring
night radiant and glorious, wrapped in its atmosphere of rumors and
perfumes.

Sieglinde is shaken, "Who has come?" Nobody, however, a new being just penetrate in the cabin,
lowering the door with his knee invisible. And Siegmund, with inspiration love, guess who is
the newcomer. "Spring is laughing in the air around of your hair. No more storms, ended the
dark loneliness.

The bright month Mayo, a young warrior in armor of flowers presented to hunt down the black winter,
and through the joyous celebration of nature, searching for her lover: Youth. Tonight when you first see
is the endless wedding night of Spring and Youth.

And Leonora shivered, listening to the murmur of the house orchestra to accompany the song of tenderness
inspired by the Spring, the vibration of the jungle waving their
arms numb for the winter, when receiving the stream of new blood and
life, and in the midst of the shining square, believed to contemplate
Siegmund and Sieglinde, narrowing in eternal embrace, forming one
body and when viewed from the racks, dressed in Valkyrie, waiting
time to awaken the enthusiasm of the audience with his scream Hojotoho!

I

felt the same sadness Siegmund Hunding's hut. Without family, homeless, wandering, looking for
something to lean on, something to shake gently, and unaware of their
movements, it was she who approached Rafael, which had a hand in his.

She was sick. She sobbed quietly pleading with a girl shyly, as if the intense artistic poetry
of that memory would have broken the weak of will rest had remained
in control of herself.

- Do not know what I have ... I'm dying ...
but with a death so sweet!

So sweet ... What Rafael madness! Having seen what reckless tonight! ...

And covered with a pleading look, as if asking pardon, majestic night, in which silence seemed
to shake the vibration of a new life.

Sensed that something was going to die there.

Will lay lifeless on the floor, powerless defense.

Rafael also felt upset.

I had it on his chest, one hand in hers; loose, unconscious, unwilling, incapable of resistance,
however, did not feel the heat brutal that morning, did not dare move for fear of seeming bold
and barbaric. We invaded a great tenderness, only ambition was to spend hours and hours in contact
with that body, hugging strongly, as if to open and lock into the woman he adored, as the
case save the jewel.

The spoke mysteriously in his ear, not knowing about what he said, whispering in her pink ear
caressing words that seemed such other and shook him to say them
with chills of passion.

Yes, it was true, that night was the dream of the great artist: the wedding night the arrogant
May in his armor of flowers and the smiling youth. The field was voluptuously shaking under the
moonlight, and they, young, feeling the flutter of love around her hair shaken to the roots,
what they were doing there, blind to the beauty of the night, deaf
the infinite kiss echoing around their heads?

- Lenore Lenore - moaned
Rafael.

He had slipped the bank: it was almost without knowing it, kneeling before her, clung to their
advanced hands and face, not daring to get into your mouth.

And she, throwing back the breast with faint, faintly murmured with a whimper as a child:

- No, no: I would hurt ... I feel like dying.

- Two in one - still young, a hollow exultation, - together forever looking in the eyes as in
a mirror, repeating their names with the singing of a stanza; die
and when necessary to escape the gossip of the people.

What mattered to them the world and its opinions?

And Leonora, increasingly weak, still refused.

- No, no ... I have
shame.

A feeling I can not define.

And it was. The sweet nature rattle with a kiss of spring, the intense perfume Flower emblem of
virginity, transfigured.

The mad, the rugged adventurer history into pleasure at the push
of violence, was first blush in the arms of a man experiencing the
alarm contact virgin male, same excitement that drives the girl to
be delivered between shivers of fear of unknown.

Nature, the intoxicating crush their resistance, seemed to create
a virginity strange in that weary body for pleasure.

- God!

What is this? ... What's Up? It must be love, a new love I did not know ... Rafael ... Rafael
mine!

And crying softly, her hands pressed between the youth's head, pressed
her mouth against yours, after throwing back, with wild eyes, crazed
by the contact lips.

Closely embraced had fallen on the bank. The garden served as their camera rumoroso Bridal: Moon
left them in discreet shadows.

- Finally! - She whispered - to achieve
your desire.

Yours ... but forever. I wanted before, but I love you now ... For the first time I say this with
all my heart.

Rafael, driven by that, he had a fit of generosity.

I needed to give everything.

- Yes, mine forever.

Fear not surrender, make me happy ... I'll marry you.

In her drunkenness the artist saw his eyes opened with surprise, how passing through his mouth
a sad smile.

- Marry! And for what? ... That is for others. Much love me, my child, as you love me ... I
just believe in Love

V

- But baby, when we reached the island?

... Distresses me to be in the bank, away from you, seeing these little arms of mine, how to give
tired from rowing. A kiss! ... But angry! That will refresh you.

And standing up, Leonora took two steps on the white boat, give a
strong swing, and kissed her several times to Rafael, who advocated
dropping the oars, laughing.

- Crazy!

That will never arrive. With breaks like these do little way, and I've promised to take you to the
island.

Again bending over the oars rowing in the middle of the river, shaking
waters reflecting the moon, as if she wanted the trees on both sides
might enjoy equally in the loving contemplation of escape.

It had been a whim of the artist, a desire repeated during his visits
to the Blue House, a times in the afternoon in the presence of Dona
Pepa and the maid, and every night through the gap in the fence, where
already waiting in the dark bare arms of Leonora, that fresh mouth
clung to his furiously as if trying to absorb it.

Took more than a week of sweet intoxication. He had never believed that life was so beautiful.
He lived in a sweet unconsciousness. The city did not exist for him. We looked like ghosts all
those around him, his mother and Remedios were invisible beings whose words answer without bothering
to lift his head to see them.

He spent his days troubled by the passionate desire to arrive early
evening, which ended the family dinner to go to his room and leave
after cautiously, just stayed silent the house, with quiet sleep.

Do not guess the surprise that this conduct must occur in his mother, seeing her room closed all
morning while he was sleeping with the fatigue of a night of love. Paid no attention to the face Dona
Bernarda grim, tired of asking if I was sick of hearing the same answer:

- No, Mama, is that I work at night, an important study.

The mother had to do not to cry, lie! for two nights had gone to her
room finding the door locked and dark the keyhole.

His son was not there. Le watched, and every day before dawn, I heard him open the door gently
the street and climbed the stairs quietly, perhaps barefoot.

The austere silent lady silent piling outrage, complaining to Don
Andrés of that crazy offshoot of upsetting their plans.

The counselor watched the young through its many devotees who followed him cautiously through
the night until the blue house.

- What a scandal! - Dona Bernarda exclaimed .-- At night too!

This will eventually bring home! But is that Dona Pepita silly not see any of this?

And Rafael, insensitive to the environment of anger that formed around
him, without deigning even address a word, a look at the poor Remedios,
head down like a goat sulking, seemed mourn the memory of those trips
under the supervision of rejoicing Dona Bernarda.

The deputy did not see anything out of the blue house, blinded him
happiness. The only thing that bothered him was having to hide, not
to make public her happiness so that they know it all fans.

Transported
wanted a blow to the Roman decadence, where the love of the powerful
taking the majesty of public worship.

- What do I care what gossip!
- Said one night in the bedroom where up Leonora carefully every night
.-- See if you want, you would like to see all these people by lending
worship. I wish I could take you in my arms and you're almost naked,
and at midday show up on the bridge of the suburb before the crowd
spellbound by your beauty: 'Am I or not I am your boss? Well if I
am, worship this woman who is my soul and without which I can not
live. The affection you hold me me, divide it to also be in it. "
And I would, to if possible, as I say.

- Crazy ... adorable baby
- she said covering her face with kisses, stroking his black beard
with its soft mouth and chilling.

And in one of these interviews,
where the words were interrupted with sudden impulses passion and
phrases were cut with a jump of beast in heat, choking from the mouths
breasts together and oppressed by the hug was when Leonora said his
whim.

- I'm drowning here. " Caress me sick within four walls, beside
a bed vulgar, as a lover of momentary whim. This is unworthy of you.
You're the love that came for in the most beautiful of nights. Outdoors
I like, love is fresh and clean in the middle the field. See you more
beautiful and I feel younger.

And recalling expeditions down the
river so many times he had reported on his conversations Rafael friend,
that islet with its curtains of reeds, the willows bending over the
water and the nightingale singing unseen, he asked, anxiously:

-
What night are you taking me? It's a fad, a craze, but what there
is Love, but for make merry nonsense that sweeten life? ... Take me
on your boat, it led you here we move to the enchanted island, we
will love all night outdoors