 Left to their thoughts and sliding fingers through her red curls,
let the girl untie all their talk.

- I do not have it, Mom - Carolina said finally after changing one or two position.

- Well, how should I have you? - Mom asked, laughing between fun and
bothered.

- So - Carolina said, and twisting his arm around the neck
of the lady of Galba and rested cheek on her bosom .-- In this way,
right?

Curl up again, acurrucose like a kitten, he closed his eyes and fell asleep.

For a while, she remained silent in that position, just daring breathing, and then was because of
some hidden sympathy born of contact, or God knows why certain thoughts began to shake. He remembered
an old pain that had settled out of her memory for years, recalled days of sickness and distrust
days of stabbing terror by something that should help ... and avoided with horror and grief mortal
thought of a being that could have been ... She also had a child of age Carolina. The arms indifferent
gathered around the sleeping child, began to tremble and shake it convulsively. And then,
with a deep impulse, powerful burst into tears, and pulled her to her bosom the girl again and
again, as if to replace to which there had once saved.

Thus, the storm that shook passed disposing in a copious tears.

Some tears fell on the curls of Carolina, which moved uneasily in his sleep. But again reassured.
It was so easy to do then! and remained so quiet and lonely they seemed part of the solitary and
silent home.

However, as in the latter, cheerfully lit by the rays of the sun, the appearance of loneliness
and abandonment not carrying the decline, despair and neglect.

At the hotel in Fiddletown, Colonel Robert waited in vain all night,
and morning Next, when Mr. Galba returned home, found it empty, uninhabited
and without trace of the previous day's drama.

II

To be news that Galba lady definitely had fled, taking the daughter her husband, was moved around
Fiddletown, raised about the case differences of opinion. The News of Dutch Flat, openly alluded to the
"violent abduction" of the girl with the same boldness and severity with which he had criticized the
productions of the poet. The public sex Lady Clara, and a fraction of the opposite sex, made, however,
persons of little character, adopted the view of this newspaper. But most people do not act consequences
deduced moral enough for them to know that the abductor had shaken their dainty slippers the
red Fiddletown dust, mourned his loss rather than the crime. Soon ignore Galba, the injured
husband and disconsolate father, and questioned the sincerity of
her grief; But save your sympathy for Colonel comic Roberto, overwhelming
the man, man excellent, with unseasonable sympathy expressed in the
taverns, lounges and other public no less inappropriate places for
demonstrations of such genre.

- Colonel, was always fickle woman
- said a sympathetic friend, with affected interest and plaintive
tone - and it is natural that one day the animal has escaped from
her husband, but I leave you, Colonel, you really have mocked, this
is what I can not finish.

And go around saying that you were hanging around the hotel all night, and walked by those corridors
and up and down the stairs, and like a lost soul that wandered square, and all this in vain!

Another friend, not less generous and compassionate, again poured balm on the wounds of the
disappointed lover.

- Imagine that such outspoken out there claim that the lady got from you charged at her suitcase
and girls from the house to the office of diligence, and that the lover who left her thanked
him, giving him some money and take care the first time because he liked his treatment ... "Of
course, that this will be a gross invention? Sure, I will know I answer those juzgamundos. Glad
to have met you, runs for lying is a blessing.

But fortunately for the reputation of Lady Clara, the Chinaman of her husband, the only witness
Eye of the leak, said that only went with the girl. He added that, obeying their orders, had to stop
the taking of Sacramento and seat adjusted both to San Francisco. The truth is that the testimony
of Ah-Fe was in no legal value, but nobody put blemish.

Even those who doubted the veracity pagan, recognized in this case the most disinterested indifference
by the Chinese. And yet, judging from a passage hitherto unknown of this Chronic true, were
wrong from medium to medium.

About six months had elapsed since the disappearance of the beautiful heroine. The Chinese worked
one day, as usual, in the field of Galba, when two miners that his countrymen equipped with long
poles passed and baskets, they called it. Lively conversation ensued Ah Fe and his brothers
Mongols, one of those conversations characteristics similar to precipitates row over its screaming,
that delight and provoke the scorn of European smart, they do not understand a word of those
speculations. Thus at least judged their pagan gibberish Mr. Galba, from his viewpoint and
Colonel Roberto that happened to pass. The latter removed them plainly of their way to a kick,
Galba and angry, with an oath, threw a stone at the group and walked away, but not before
that they had exchanged one or two strips of yellow rice paper with hieroglyphs and into the
hands of Ah-Fe a small package. Abriola Ah-Fe in the solitude of her kitchen and found child apron,
freshly washed and ironed. Carried in the hem angle the initial CT Chinese hid him in a fold
of her shirt, and continued washing his dishes in the sink with a candid smile of contentment.

A
few days later, Ah-Fe was presented to his master.

- I do not like Fiddletown, I really sick. I go.

Galba sent him to the devil.

Ah-Fe and retired quietly watched him determined to put implement its purpose.

However, before leaving Fiddletown she met by chance Colonel Roberto
and they escaped some incoherent phrases that interested the military.

When he finished, Colonel gave him a letter and a heavy gold coin.

-
If I will double this brings an answer: Can you understand, Ah-Fe?

Nodded. Another meeting took place between Ah Fe and another gentleman, young editor of The
Avalanche, also casual interview with the same result. However, I feel myself obliged to say
that the set out, Ah-Fe broke quietly hallmark of both letters, and then trying to read upside
down and sideways, finally divided them finely chopped, diced, and sold them in that provision
for a trifle to a yellow brother who stumbled on her way. Described is not for the sorrow of Colonel
Roberto to discover in the white face of these squares, which came to him with the linen of
the week, the account of his laundry, and to acquire the belief that the remaining pieces
of the letter circulated by the same method among clients Fiddletown Chinese laundry. However, I
have the firm belief that this breach of trust served punishment
found in the difficulties that accompanied the pilgrimage of Ah-Fe.

Speaking to Sacramento, was twice thrown Cow diligence below, a Caucasian civilization, but drunk
as could be, who the company of a smoker opium to the quick wounded dignity. At Hangtown, a
passerby will give a simple helmet evidence of white supremacy. In Dutch Flat stolen for reasons
well known hands also unknown. In Sacramento he was arrested on suspicion of being this or
that and put it released after a severe reprimand, probably because I was not looking and thus hindered
the course of the proceedings. In San Francisco, stoned children in public schools, but carefully
avoiding these temples of illustration and progress, finally reached the relative safety in
Chinatowns, where abuses against him were at least enrolled in the police and face books almost
always the deserved punishment.

Without loss of time managed to enter the laundry-Chy Fook as an assistant, and Friday Next he
was sent with a basket of clean laundry to the various customers of the company.

It was one of those afternoons when fog, one of those days faded, gray, that challenge the
Summer name to anyone, except for the exalted imagination of citizens San Francisco. Ah-Fe climbed
the long hill on California Street, swept wind did not feel temperature or make out the color
on earth or in heaven; or light shade outdoors or inside buildings, only if a dye gray, drab,
universal, that hung everywhere. A feverish excitement reigned in the streets swept by the wind,
and houses a profound stillness reigned. When the Chinese had reached the top of the hill, the
Mission Hill and hid his eyes and the cool breeze Tues gave him chills. Descargose of his basket
to rest. Probably for limited intelligence and from the pagan point of view, the "climate
of God", as we call it, not provided with the sweetness, gentleness and mercy that are attributed.
Perhaps the good son Sky illogically confounded the rigors of the season with their persecutors,
children in schools, free instruction at this time of closure, were much more bold and daring.
So hastily went his way, and turning a corner Finally he stopped
before a house and entered it resolutely.

Preceded the house in question to a petty planting of shrubs, with front terrace, above it was an ugly
balcony that perhaps had not been used in life. Ah-Fe rang the bell, a servant appeared, glanced
at the basket and reluctantly admitted like a pet, annoying but necessary.

Ah-Fe rose silently the stairs, he went into the front room, left the basket and waited in the
doorway.

A woman sitting at the cool window light grayish, with a girl in the skirt, rose with indifference
and went to the visitor. Immediately recognized Ah, Mrs. Faith Galba, but did not change even
one muscle in his face, nor his oblique eyes encouraged the found
peacefully with his former mistress.

Obviously, she did not recognize him because he started to count
the pieces of clothing she wore.

But the girl, examining it with curiosity, uttered suddenly a sudden cry of joy:

- But Mom, if John! Do not you know? Is the Chinese we had in Fiddletown.

Hurtful

eyes Ah-Fe shone for a moment with electric shock.

The girl slapped and grabbed his clothing. The Chinese said:

- Yo, John, Ah-Fe, all is one. I know you. How's it going?

Galba Mrs. dropped in horror Miron clothing and steadily.

As there was for him the affection that stoked the perception of Carolina,
could not distinguish even their peers.

At one point recalled the last sentence, and dim suspicion of danger
imminent, asked when he had left his master's house.

- Oh, long time!

I do not like Fiddletown.

Tlevelick dislike. San Flisco like. Like washing. Like Carolina.

Mrs. pleased Galba the brevity of Ah-Fe, so I did not stop to think about it influence he had
on his good intention and sincerity the imperfect knowledge of the
language Shakespeare.

But he said:

- I request not to tell anyone that I have seen.

And he took his alms.

The Chinese, without looking at him, saw that it was nearly empty,
without scanning the room, noted that it was poorly furnished, and
without removing his gaze from the ceiling, he noticed that the lady
and wore Carolina with the greatest poverty.

However, I must confess that the long fingers pressed to Ah-Fe half a dollar sign that it
handed him.

Then began to search the folds of her blouse through strange contortions
and grimaces.

After a few moments, he pulled from God knows where a child apron, which he placed on the basket,
saying

- Forgetting a laundry room.

And started again for registration.

Finally, success crowned their efforts apparently, took his right
ear a piece of tissue paper rolled patiently.

Carefully unrolled, finally discovered two gold coins of twenty dollars, which handed the lady
of Galba.

- Leave your money on bluló [14] Fiddletown, I find coins. I bring to you shortly.

- But I do not any money left over Boureau, John! - Said presented with sincere amazement. There
must be wrong. Will of another person. Take it, John.

Ah-Fe was troubled for a moment. He took his hand to Madame de Galba proffered money and moved
quickly to pick up their stuff.

- No, no, I did not return. No. Then take me a policeman [15]. I know: God damn thief take forty
dollars, to jail. I do not return. You leave money up bluló Fiddletown. I bring money. I do
not carry cash again.

Lady Clara doubted that in their headlong flight had left the money as he said, but either way
it was, had no right to endanger the safety of this Chinese honored by refusing, so he said:

-
Okay, John. I will stay with him, but you have to see me again.

Lady Clara hesitated. For the first time it happened that a man could wish to see another but her.

-
To me, y. .. Carolina!

The Ah-Fe face brightened. Even uttered a short laugh ventriloquist without moving a only facial
muscle.

Then, throwing the basket on his shoulder, carefully closed the door and slipped quietly up
the stairs. However, the output, a difficulty encountered unexpectedly when you open the door,
and after struggling a moment in the door in vain, looked around as if waiting for who would
take out of trouble. But the Irish barmaid had facilitated the entry, did not deign to appear. He
then spent a mysterious incident and sensitive, I will relate just effortlessly to give an
explanation. On the table the entrance was a silk handkerchief, property without doubt the
maid to whom I referred. While Ah-Fe tempted the bolt with one hand lightly resting his free on the
table. Suddenly, and seemingly spontaneous impulse, the tissue began to slide gradually toward
the hand of Chinese. From the hand of Ah-Fe, went inside his sleeve, slowly and with a slow
movement, like the serpent, and disappeared in some of the folds of his robe. Without showing the
slightest interest in this phenomenon, Ah-Fe yet their repeated attempts over the bolt. Soon after,
the red damask rug, moved perhaps by the same mysterious impulse, slowly gathered it under the
fingers of Ah-Fe and gently undulating disappeared by the same hidden
path.

What other mysteries could have followed? This would not be easy to find, because at that moment
Ah Fe discovered the secret bolt and could open the door, coinciding with the sound of footsteps
could be heard in ladder. The Chinese do not hastened his departure, but slowly loading the
basket closed the door carefully behind him, and into the thick impenetrable fog that hung down
the street.

Reclined in the window, saw the figure of Lady Clara
Ah-Fe until he disappeared into the thick fog. In his plight he felt
deep gratitude, and perhaps Lady Clara as always, poetic and sensitive,
attributed to deep emotions and conscience satisfied a good deed,
cupping the breast of the Chinese that it was actually due to the
presence the scarf and the mat under your clothing. Then, and as the
night, gray fog became more dense, Galba Mrs. Caroline shook against
his chest. Leaving the talk of the creature, ensued between emotional
memories and selfish considerations at once bitter and dangerous.
The sudden appearance of Ah-Fe had re-united with Fiddletown his past
life, the path traveled since those days was useless and sad strewn
with thorns, full of thorns and difficulties and insurmountable obstacles.
Nothing strange was therefore Carolina finally ceased suddenly in
the middle of their childish confidences to throw his arms around
the neck of the poor woman, and begged him not to cry because it was
sad.

Heaven preserve me to use a pen, you should always engage early
exposure unalterable moral, in transcribing the specious theories
about this time Lady Clara and defended his conduct that sophistical
apologies, illogical deductions, tender apology and weak palliative.
In truth, the circumstances were very cruel, quickly depleted their
low flow