 Southwest rocky headlands stand of hills which skirts
to delay the city of Algeciras, at some distance from its port and arsenal, and the British
and Spanish forts there look side to side over wave, sometimes angry, as if represents the permanent
fight or mute the challenge between the despair of an old conqueror of worlds, conquered by
his own fault, and quiet pride of a great nation that has found its strength and symbolizes
freedom all his genius with the cosmopolitan progressive trade, sovereign of the seas. For
all over the high peaks of the mountains, sad and naked, groups and steps picturesque hills
overlooking narrow valleys, and the most beautiful landscape of melancholy, Spanish territory,
while the British rock contrasts their blackened rocks and colossal, the picturesque city, its
gay gardens, its great fortifications, their lively ports and numerous merchant vessels and warships
anchored at the foot of the walls or in the central Gulf, gently tossed by the waves of a green
crystalline admirable.

At the bottom of the gulf, near the sea, the valley is a small town called Lina surrounded by
plantations, and higher, on a low hill, the small town of San Roque (founded after 1704), belonging,
and Algeciras, Cádiz province. The gulf has to input as 16 miles wide and a length towards
San Roque as 20 kilometers while the distance between the sides (or Gibraltar and Algeciras) is
about 9 or 10. The total population covered that coast horseshoe is as about 46.000 inhabitants
(Excluding military garrisons), accounting for 15,000 to Gibraltar, Algeciras 16.000 and the rest
to San Roque and Lina.

It was four o'clock when our steamer anchored to two hundred meters from the port Gibraltar.
The picture offered to our eyes was so quaint and gorgeous at the same time, they stayed for over
an hour watching him spellbound. We wanted to jump shore, but knowing that the city gates would
be closed at six and we lack time, we prefer to just wait the next day. A swarm of young men romping
naked in emerald waves and lazuli, swimming with delight or concern alternately and making changes
by the fumes and brigs of the port, following the money feluccas the light. Meanwhile across the Gulf
a small boat filled with banners, that came from Algeciras to Gibraltar, bringing him on board
a large band of merry walkers among whom were about five or six musicians. His sonatas were a
charming effect at the bottom of the gulf whispering surrounded by beautiful countryside. Gibraltar,
settled in its monumental rock amphitheater and extending towards the top to get lost among
jagged peaks, bosquedllos strengths and artificial, had, by the light flickering and the six
and a half In the afternoon, do not know what's great and severe for a whole, while much of eastern
of voluptuous and poetic for its features and melancholy of the moment.

At last the shadows of the night covered everything and the silence
was absolute.

From that picture full of light, life and whim, but there was a clear sky but opaque, the vast
shadow shifting of the sea, deep sobs on the horizon of darkness, standing at a distance almost
equal, groups of lights indicating the position of Gibraltar, San Roque and Algeciras contrasting with
the black moles of warships and trade seemed arise around, numb from the waves in a concert of sighs.
Strolling along the bridge, my companions and I were talking about French literature issue that
we came insensibly to mind apropos of a song that heralded Captain in one of the cabins.

- What services has made to literature in general, we say, - this monument floating is called a ship!
- The ship, whatever its size, is in itself a literature because
it is an entire civilization.

No one has created maritime literature, very special and perhaps the grandest, - poetry without
equal, full of mysteries, and travel, discovery, conquest, settlements, exchange of ideas between
peoples, astronomy and geodesy, maritime warfare etc., etc.: not only created the genres of literary
elements, we said, - but has literature developed immensely continental or land, means multiplying
expansion and regeneration of a prodigiously. What a wonderful thing is a ship! Not only a shell
of wood and iron that carries within it a portion of the vital force humanity is more still:
it is a separate civilization, - is the symbol of the mysterious power man to double the living
area of ??your planet and submit to his service all elements, is a piece of home in each village
(accessory but no less real) seeking in the immensity of the seas the fraternal greeting of
other portions floating villages. The sea is not the limit of nations, continents and races.
No, it is otherwise he who removes the borders, who keeps the unity of the liquid element (embracing
and wrapping them around the world, and receiving with hospitality as the tribute of all people)
the image of the divine and eternal unity of Man with Man, logical deduction unit be created
with the Creator and Nature .... One day mankind will be one family, Ocean common lake millions
of neighbors and healthy siblings from each beach, and the ship without national flag, will
cross the lake universal, as anonymous as the car now rolling through the streets of a city without
distinction of address.

The next day at seven o'clock in the morning, we jumped to a felucca to visit to Gibraltar.
To set foot in the narrowest port near the first walls and the great door, and amid the cheerful
bustle of a marketplace, it was necessary to ask leave to enter,
written.

British officials did not deny ever, and there are transactions freely. Why leave then? Why not, if
Gibraltar is also a strength! Thus, this noble personal freedom that is the pride of English,
and struggle with passports, relentless and quarantine restrictions, suffers an exception in Gibraltar,
the only fact that there a set of machines barbarize the world. One simple example is testing
the strengths, fittings, warships, and all you have the character of armed, are but gross disturbances
of social order.

Despite its ancient origin and of Moorish and Spanish domination, Gibraltar is a town does
not have the sadness and monotony of cities of similar: it looks good that genius Britain has
changed the social condition and the appearance of the character
space complex.

The streets are usually clear, fair and regular, the houses of only two or three floors, cheerful,
whimsical gracefully, almost all painted in yellow and other colors and ornate balconies, shutters,
windows or balconies, depending on each individual's chairs English simplicity, oriental style, or
Spanish empiricism sometimes picturesque. Coffees and hotels abound, the synagogues, alternating
with the Catholic and Anglican churches, the rows of shops filled with curiosities rich are endless,
especially at 'street-Mayor; " and wherever there is a confusion of types and an animation
of curious and merchants to call much attention, noting that the city is a cosmopolitan neighborhood,
home brotherhood and change their products, the Spanish, English, Italian, Jewish and Moro
tangerine or tetuanés.

Nothing more picturesque and curious that all social groups and stores and Gibraltar. Despite
the confusion when people swarm, striking each at first glance, contrasts vividly impressed
on account of the smallness of stage.

The Englishman walks up measured, without arrogance but with the air safety which is always
the one who can say, 'Here I rule. "Her blonde hair, blue eyes her dress loose, free and elegant
but dull uniformity that makes it look like one piece, his impassive coldness, if it is a simple
merchant, - or his aristocratic pride, if an officer of the garrison or the British navy -
all strongly distinguishes it other types.

Meanwhile seen in the other faces the seal of the department, but without degradation. Spanish, porter
at the port, craftsman, road or dealer in Details, reserved, as if constantly oppress the
humiliating idea that inhabits a city founded on the floor of the
Peninsula, but dominated by a foreign power.

The Italians (which were very numerous), many of them refugees, fleeing the tyranny and misery,
maniestaban expatriate's grief, while instinctual satisfaction that feels free under a sky like
its homeland, and his conversation was simple, suggestive and noisy. The Jew and the Moor,
as quiet and dreamy wandering the streets of Gibraltar, with its picturesque and dirty clothes,
their caps and turbans, their bare legs and broad sandals, there seem to be evoking all Eastern
traditions and history of two proscribed races. Those men, with their floating mantles as shrouds,
ghosts appear Africa del mondo, or walking corpses of generations that transmitted the world
the deposit of Christian civilization. I could not look without deep sadness no Israelite or
moro of that people to Gibraltar. I do not know if my inclination towards all the weak and outcast
I ruled the world, but felt more sympathy for Jews, Italians and Moors by same English and Spanish.

And
HOWEVER, there is nothing that highlights as much as the rough rock of Gibraltar's glory relative
free hospital institutions and customs of the English people. In London, where so many thousands
of outcasts who live under it under a noble adopted country, everything goes unnoticed because the
immensity of this metropolis hides the details. Is Gibraltar is revealed more liberal genius, commercial,
cosmopolitan and tolerant of people English. Spanish and Italian, Jewish and Moorish, English
and any foreign country, are equally free, they tolerate in their
religion and their customs and live fraternally.

Gibraltar seemed a kind of model (though imperfect) of that unit in the right and progress,
which tends to humanity, driven by the feeling of love and justice which is the true ideal of civilization.
Rock that hospital, which admits all races and religions, positioned between Catholic Spain
- their intolerant and fanatical Papal institutions - and Mohammedan Africa - intolerant and
fanatical resentment and for their backwardness in civilization, - this rock, I say, I found there,
battered by waves balancing between two worlds enemies, as an ark of salvation that was carrying
the redemptive idea of ??freedom, law and fraternity!

If I were Spanish, perhaps I would look to float despite the British flag on the rock of Gibraltar:
patriotism (which is often a fallacy), I would think so. But, son the New World, impartial between
the two powers and a friend of justice and progress, bless today (everything is relative)
dominance of England in Gibraltar. She is the assurance free trade in the Mediterranean, is
the link between European civilization and African semi-barbarism, is a promise of progress, and
a severe and eloquent teaching for nations still reject the advice of a policy of tolerance
and fairness.

All these interests would be compromised the day return to rule Gibraltar Spain, - Spain,
where even in 1859, while carrying the war against Morocco name of civilization, was sentenced
to nine years in prison to a citizen of England Cadiz for selling the Bible (the book of God!) British
edition ....

What makes Gibraltar trade is very considerable, that place is not just a stopover point important
for navigation between the Mediterranean and the Atlantic, but the general deposit of the changes
you make Western Europe the empire of Morocco. Furthermore, it is an element clandestine trade
with Spain, very considerable. Spain, like everyone who sins is the results of their own faults
punishment and backlash from them. Its selfish fiscal or economic institutions, has been surrounded
by all the constraints typical of a system rigorous prohibitions,
regulations and differential duties, and that it is expensive.

Smuggling is huge, everywhere - the same thing for its coastline, which borders France and Portugal;
but nowhere is so visible proportions as in Gibraltar. The value of changes that take place
there are so considerable, that in recent years did not export Gibraltar to Europe and Africa less
than 22,000,000 of hard dollars or 440 million reais of fleece.

Apart from large warehouses, nothing more interesting than the shops of Gibraltar full of fabrics,
artifacts and more heterogeneous, coming from very different countries. What is most striking is the
set of articles of Moroccan industry, so funny and original and colorful. The beautiful and polished
morocco, large cotton and silk shawls, bright colors on white, or mixed, the thousand whims
Drawing and red embroidery on wool rugs, cushions and sandals, the beautiful turbans the infinity
of jewels and ornaments, feathers, coral beads, filigree, cigarette embroidered with gold and
silver thread, and a thousand objects in the hand, - all that arouses
curiosity because of its peculiarities, its vivid colors and vagaries
of form, which gives an idea of style industry in Morocco and neighboring
countries.

No less curious are the small different application objects are made with marble and granite in Gibraltar,
Ronda, Tangier and elsewhere to have their Spendius in the square of universal change.

When we walked the streets of Gibraltar and visited many stores, we city ??of the vast enclosure
of the citadel. Without careful to observe very carefully great fortresses that stand out everywhere
in the maze, we crossed the first gardens climbing to the heights of rock, through immense pyramids
patios bullets, bombs and grenades, and endless rows of great guns. That swarm of projectiles and
instruments of death, in the midst of artificial vegetables, so many flowers and perfumes, and
fruit trees, and jumping springs, and rustic bridges and statues overwhelmed and arches and
walls of vines and branches, - those strengths and frigates threatening in the presence of a
beautiful bay and under a sky of eastern admirable beauty, the silence betrayer of so many
mouths of iron and bronze on the walls open and ready to vomit heat
waves over the green waves of the Gulf - while all was bustle city
animation and commercial matters - everything was a set of contrasts
to reflect with sadness or laugh at the follies of the world.

Still be many years before the canyon, climbing swagger about his carriage, no longer an argument,
but will have to wait for a day in a commercial plaza and a strait have no other defense that
the interest progress and the notion of justice.

The picture that dominates the upper elevations of Gibraltar is unmatched, as picture sea. With
the aid of a telescope we could see clearly but distant objects, comprising lovely set. Fire
up the sky and brown granite peaks of majesty awesome. The gorgeous gardens and Vastis around, crossed
the street in a zig-zag, which go prancing to the top, as well flush the cars up and down easily
any, and all the room bristled with fortifications, granitic rocks, palaces and beautiful villas,
statues of English characters and big beautiful trees. In the background, the Gulf on fire
by the African sun, the coast of Algeciras and San Roque, with its graceful populations, Isla
Verde with its hospital, the Spanish forts and mountain belt closing the south-western horizon.
Finally, south and south-eastern Mediterranean, the mountains and African coasts, and after
the "tip of Africa ', facing the Rock of Gibraltar, Ceuta at the bottom of the small gulf,
resembling a nest of seagulls, and far beyond, as a white dot, the port and the city of Tangier,
showing loosely behind a veil of gauze fiery reverberations produced
by inflamed air.

That picture is which are never forgotten. To describe mass, I think I'm seeing, with the eye inflamed
by the devouring sun, after eight months since I visited Gibraltar.

* * * * *

At five in the afternoon we weighed anchor steam by heading towards Cadiz. Shortly thereafter, to
return the tip of Algeciras, the most advanced of Spain in the Mediterranean, we lost view of
the gulf and the Rock of Gibraltar. We went almost the Strait and we began to see tireless struggle
among the great waves of the ocean and the tiny waves of the Mediterranean, - the first slow,
formidable, immense, filling the channel with majesty, - the other restless fast, rolling on the
great plains liquid and wanting to leave the wide space. Seemed countless herds of sheep determined
to climb over hills and mountains formidable.

The shadows of night fell as we passed in front of Tangier and Tarifa, so close the second that
almost touch the rock or island of the same name, linked by a very narrow isthmus to the port.
Rate Today is but a debris, a memory. The population lies sad and solitary at the foot of
a hill, and the historic forts are worthless.

       But that group stones have a huge moral merit.

As I gazed I seemed to see the shadow on the battlements sublime de Guzman el Bueno, dominating
the vague shadows of the night, at arm's length showing Africa, and remembering that the supreme
self-sacrifice is a virtue for that there should be neither time nor posterity ....

* * * * *

CHAPTER V.

* * * * *

THE BAY OF CADIZ.

It was six o'clock when fondeábamos front of Cadiz, close to the center of the bay and it was
necessary to wait for two hours until the board permission to land. Customs should not be
waking up till eight o'clock, when records began luggage and scrutiny
of passports, without exception of person.

       Spanish is abroad in Spain under Customs thresholds, which do not
respect national inquisitorial nails or address, digging the same
baggage that comes from China or of the New World, that which comes
ride in any Spanish city.

       

A magnificent sun silvered the waves of the bay and illuminates the
towers, fortresses and Cadiz large buildings, resulting in the domes
and huge masses of masonry more vivid reflections.

The show was wonderfully beautiful, as was interesting movement port, and encouraged by the numerous
groups of marine, porters, merchants street, curious unemployed, etc., but because of the abundance
of vessels anchored in the bay and small boats and short feluccas navigation. At ten o'clock we leave
safely Customs and went to settle in the beautiful hotel "Trade." We eager to climb to one of
the highest towers of the city to cover the view the whole picture, and although the sun scorched
their tongues of fire on the island of Leon, did not want to wait for later. One of the towers
of the Cathedral 'old' (building something spacious, but in bad taste
and was not worth a thorough review), we served as a lookout.

The scene was entirely different from what we had offered the Bay of Algeciras. In the Bay of Cadiz
on the horizon had no limits, and had everything that the eye could behold a wonderful set of
the immense majesty, grace and vitality in the details and great memories in the varied appearance
of the landscape. Nothing is more curious and exceptional the topography of the island of Leon
and the peninsular tip that faces to form bay. Cadiz is like a rock in the center of a vast plain,
on the east the plain solid, the vast coast of southern Andalusia, fully flat, extending to
Guadalquivir on one side and the other into the far buttresses round, following the direction
of Medina; - west, south and north-western deserts of the Atlantic full of light and solemnity.

The
island of Leon is the form of a military hat and a thick canopy of
points much more often than another.
