 All faces turned in surprise.

- What are you laughing at, Michael? - Asked his aunt.

- Me, recontra,
on me - Enrique shouted desperately.

- Come, silence! - Dona Martina
said face severe with him .-- Do you feel like take them again?

Miguel does not laugh at you ... Why was laughing, sappy? ...

- Why yes ... I well know ... Because he is a hypocrite!

...

- Silence, I say ... and eat!

Miguel had been very seriously, realizing that he had committed a rudeness, and that the concealed
by being invited. For a long time may get suppressed, making for this titanic effort. Henry had
his big eyes fixed on him bulging full of anger, guessing exactly what you walked inside. If you
looked up and saw that face brat uglier still with anger, was lost. Why not move the plate
a moment, devouring the stew that had served her aunt, without chewing snacks. At one moment, however,
that by chance or by magnetic attraction found their eyes. And could no longer. Another stream
of laughter, the beans scattered on the table, the faces of the guests
returned back to him.

But this time there were more serious than astonishment painted on
them, mostly that of his uncle.

- What is it, Michael?

"- He said with apparent calmness .-- Why are we so cheerful?

Miguel was very red, and said nothing.

- Do you laugh at it because your cousin have been punished for offenses that the two have
committed? ... That is not right, Michael, that's not right .... You ought to be a little more
generous ..... If You do not have stuck, not because we do not deserve, as you well know, but
because your aunt does not have authority.

But fortunately for everyone, and for you too - she added, looking Colonel, smiling maliciously,
- soon will not miss time and place who have things in order, that failure is doing good. So,
buddy, maybe you touch Enrique laugh at you, but neither would do
well ..... The good Christian education and morals prohibited evil
laugh of others .....

Michael, who had grown increasingly red at
this point began to mourn, and fell face down on the table.

D. Bernard smiled with satisfaction the success achieved by oratory. Doña Martina immediately
went to comfort the child.

- Come on, Mickey, do not cry, silly .... If your uncle loves you very much ..... Do not take it
amiss that tells you ..... If he ..... You're a good boy, I know, and they know it all .....
If you are unable Enrique laugh at because they have stuck ..... You would not laugh at that?

Miguel
declined to speak, because I did not lie, nor call her ugly cousin. Continued still some time with
his nose tucked the tablecloth as in protest against malicious reluctance
of his uncle.

At last, overcome by the prayers and praise of aunt, raised his head: that was quick to dry your tears
and mucus with its own handkerchief. Again took the fork and continued eating.

The conversation turned away, at the initiative of the D. Bernardo, on the absolute necessity
his brother had brought home a woman, a view already heard not long
ago issued time.

- If my brother is determined to remain single,
much more it would get rid of furniture and went to live at an inn
.....

It should be noted that D. Bernardo considered as living in
catering point less than a disgrace: not vulgar tread these establishments,
where people are confused ridiculously around the round table, have
always sought people who visited a house respect (so called) where
there were more guests than he.

This will include contemptuous turning easily gave the word inn when he passed his lips.

- Do not know whether V. have noticed, D. Pablo - continued to address the colonel (a rarely Hojeda
gave him this honor), - why mess Fernando is at home ..... Rarely found one thing on his site:
anda scattered dust the furniture, the servants they please.

I spent more than once to go there and have no one to take off my coat. If you say V., Colonel,
that once my brother was to move out of his shirt, and could not, because There was no gangplank!

-
Hum! - He, "in admiration, but without removing the senses of roast-beef before him.

- What horror - Dona Martina exclaimed, as he always spoke of this event is unprecedented:
we know that his forte was the iron.

- See V., see V. How does your
child eat !..... dropping meat and chewed on the plate!

Miguel blushed to his ears again.

- Come on, Bernard, let him now - he said his wife, and going after
the Colonel: - Learn V., friend Bembo, women are most needed at home
than to V. he imagines.

- No doubt, no doubt - muttered, his eyes
huge plate.

- And if you doubt V., rascal, why not follow V. the
example of my brother?

- Madam, I am not yet ready.
