 

= Dose .=-- one to two drops of the tincture per day, is perhaps the best preparation of this drug. We
do not want, however, deactivate the cooking to the dose of 50 grams to 2 liters of water is
reduced to 1, but results have been obtained eSCelente lower dose, as 2 drops of the first
or third attenuation in irritative and neuralgic conditions similar to this drug.

SEPIA (GIBIER REGULAR, GIBIER INK).

§ I. - History.

The liquid black or sepia ink from a cephalopod mollusk that bears this name. The old, after Hippocrates,
have used the inner shell and the eggs of the cuttlefish its various species, as an astringent
and diuretic. Recognized in these substances property of exciting uterine contractions for the
expulsion of the placenta, and the restore the suppressed lochia.

Have been used since the time of Pliny, in diseases Chronicles of the bladder, uterus and skin,
and in some secretions of the genito-urinary mucosa.

Hahnemann is likely to have tried sepia ink on old data, and lets not be truly remarkable,
that his essays, apart from the more properties Este have discovered that this substance has
been confirmed by the esperiencia of the ancients, that gave very similar properties to all
parts of this animal. We admire this great therapeutic effects attributed to the sepia as excitants
of circulation, that required in soothe his concept with aconite, because after fifteen years we
have dedicated to study the physiological and clinical medicine,
never failing to confess discover in the sepia effect excitants directly
on the blood system, or phenomena deserving the name of fever phlogosis
or whole.

Physiological effects .-- § II.

Can not be found in the table of physiological symptoms and clinical facts an action sepia real
in the blood system, not a sphere of action so as claimed Este many practitioners, especially
Germans. Undoubtedly has special relations with the systems venous and lymphatic truth is that
all signs relating to other organ systems rely on these relationships and rely on changes in
the systems concerned, and and its ramifications, and for their encouragement, or for its vitality.
The clinic has also been shown The number of nervous symptoms and especially nerve of sepia always
assume abdominal or uterine disease, and often separated from the beginning herpetic skin or mucous
membranes and alter the nervous system, resulting in reactive action
that your uterus to the skin, brain, mucous membranes, skin or of
the uterus and the nervous system, or lymphatic to everyone else.

Several authors have given to the sepia the denomination of chronic pulsatilla, in consideration
of its phenomena dependent uterine and uterus, while others compare it to the club moss, for
its phenomena blood, lymph and skin, when seeking their analogies in an affection herpes, or in
suffering from the same affection, and general character Dyscrasic. It has been said, well,
it was the opiate of the delicate women, in conditions dependent
painful an uncommon genre, or of a particular state of the uterus,
but not an organic lesion.

Elective action of this drug is supported by all its circumstances, by unique relationship of
the morbid state which tends to develop, with people offering weakened by excesses and moral
emotions usual, or naturally delicate, sensitive lymphatic and nervous temperament, these patients
have thin skin, white, pale and covered with red spots frequently they are very impressionable
to cold air, a cold easily, and often undergoes shocks and tremors in the limbs, accesses weakness
and faintness, looseness large, blood and pulse excitation across the body sweats easily and
are willing to mucus, swelling to cold, rheumatic and scrofulous, and darting to and pulsating
pain, which relieves exterior heat, cold worse, and those who join chills: in these people,
it develops all its power, and puberty or old age before their ability to make disappear the
venosidad and to the nervousness. Moral dispositions of this drug are very similar to those
of the throbbing, changing only from sadness to a concern tearful resignation, although sometimes
occur discouragement and the propensity to become irritated in the affections of the device genito-urinary
system. Esponse It is understood that the cuttlefish is particularly suited to the women's
diseases, while so it will be useful in men, especially in young people and delivered to onanism,
in which is very effective, with a major upset if the digestive tract, and there is sadness, depression,
taciturnity.

§ III .-- therapeutic effects.

= A. = febrile illness .-- This medicine is not for the fever itself, but Dyscrasic only to states,
herpes, venous, scrofulous, with or without local affection, and who develop blood rising excitement
to the congestion, swellings active gastric mucosal irritation ...., but that is transient and
never ends suppuration or crisis arises. It has been useful in some mucous and catarrhal fever
in some subacute cases, which extend beyond the longest boundary, then throbbing, and when sulfur
is contraindicated by the lack of regular and irritability erethism organic: The tongue is white,
there are no blisters or sore excoriation of the mouth, sensation of cold, frequent chills, aches
and discomforts that bring down, abdominal venous congestion tension and tympanitis or sensitivity
to heat, symptoms which, together with those of coating, seem to
require the use of a purgative, which, however, increases and aggravates
the suffering fever.

Sepia is useful in slow fever complicating certain catarrhal and neuralgic, in weak and lymph,
which the slightest cause sweat, but this is rather Ereta and depends on a sufficient nutrition
and continuous changes arising from the lack of harmony between the skin and mucous membranes. The sluggish
state of these surfaces is expresses by fluxions passing by chronic rubbing surface by flow
of sweat or mucus, extremity by a sensitivity to cold, heat inflaming living with blood by in
bed at night and frequent chills, and lack of heat through the day without vital energy; heat
also rarely general, focused principally on the head, redness and
swelling in the face sometimes, and cold in the lower extremities
and thighs.

All these data are applicable to intermittent fevers characteristic of sepia. Necessary be confessed,
however, that Germany has been greatly exaggerated its importance in these species fevers.
Only intermittent agrees that nutrition is weakened due to congestion Repeated abdominal organs
in the period of concentration, constant sweating due to the weakness and laxity of the skin, previous
treatments and old diseases venereal treated with high doses of mercury and iodine salts. Is
more often indicated in larval fever, neuralgic, with periodic migraine,
abdominal venous congestion and mucus, and even of diarrhea.

= B = inflammations, inflammations to subirritaciones .-- The sepia corresponding recognize a uterine
or abdominal venous disposition, a cachectic state, a herpes infection, or a scrofulous diathesis;
the affected organ is weakened by previous conditions, is feeling dryness, redness, warmth,
burning, sensation of excoriation, swelling. Despite the sensation of dryness, there is some
serous exudation, usually acre and develops skin irritation at the
next, at the tip of the nose that goes on, in swollen eyelids, in
the big lips and between her thighs.

These irritations are usually herpes or scrofulous character, and when they cease, let behind him a
looseness and thickening of the mucous membranes, resulting in coryza and leucorrhoea tenacious;
to tonsillitis and sore throat; to ophthalmia that play often and are complicated with menstrual
disorders and critical age. It is rare that the eyelids are not ruddy Styes and has not, that in
the mouth does not develop any swelling detachment epithelium in the form of plates, in the vulva,
irritations and abrasions of the same species; in the foreskin, vesicular eruptions, humidity,
or chronic irritation and flows, in the skin, in short, dry spots and rashes, furfuraceous, eczematous.
The sluggishness of the fiber, the fatigue general and the sepia lymphatism distinguish the
sulfur in these cases, because it presents more erethism in their action, although in many cases
of irritability that is not without orgasm and blood, mainly in the
recrudescence of the disease and mucus the Stomach.

= C = Irritations chronic asthenic flows .-- The cuttlefish is also
indicated, if there are nswers conditions and circumstances and in
the following conditions:

1. º The scrofulous with serum purulent
otorrhea;

2. º ophthalmia in chronic swelling and superficial injury,
such as pustules on conjunctiva

3. º ozena and flow in the chronic
fetid mucus in the nose;

4. º in chronic vomiting, spitting up of
mucus in viscous and heartburn with gastralgia;

5. º in some debilitating
diarrhea, even in children;

6. º in mucus from the anus with lancinating
or itching;

7. º The serosa and fetid leucorrhoea;

8. º in chronic
gonorrhea, waxy, greenish, or drop military

9.

No sweat in excess of the scrotum, feet, under the arm;

10.

In chronic dyspepsia and stomach and bowels, and constipation rebel
heartburn, emaciation and cold sensation in the stomach, alternating
with discomfort in head, chills sterna, usually hits nausea;

11.

In nighttime urination in bed during first sleep;

12.

In some cases organic lesion of the heart and liver with local pain,
dull, burning, rigors and jaundice in liver disease;

13.

In sterility;

14. In ascites, belly bulging after menopause, and mucous conditions and serous inflammations
from slow, subacute irritation, congestion of stagnation and venous
and lymphatic obstruction.

= D = cervical condition.

Disorders of menstruation .-- The action of the uterus sepia deserves
particular exposition.

Few drugs correspond better to the venous component congestive, especially if the scene is in the
womb. Antipyretic drugs such as aconite, arnica, nux vomica, bryony and others, play in the
suppression or in dysmenorrhea by erethism local general matrix,
or by fits of plasticity of the blood that comes with difficulty in
clots.

The sepia and other drugs depressing action and Dyscrasic act effectively by contrast, deletions
and dysmenorrhea with impoverished blood, and bleeding with uterine matrix asthenic conditions.

This
is like the sepia is adapted to deletions and dysmenorrhea with local erethism é general inertia
with asthenic nervous and anemic at times, and periods excesses metrorrhagia with fatigue or
in local and chlorosis. Passive congestion is characterized in this case the pelvis pressing pain,
even without lumbago, pains extraordinary increase if she stays up. This characteristic is also
itself in these cases, the pain the saffron and the machine. In uterine congestion at the time of
gestation with a tendency abortion, sepia for the flaccid state of
the tissue because there is a lot erethism, must toggle to the nux
vomica, or simply to use the latter.

To fully appreciate all the action of the sepia in menstrual disorders, and just fill your
information, it must attend to the sympathetic alterations part of the uterus, and the effect of congestion,
and by the susceptibility of the nervous system in a weak body or naturally sensitive or impressionable,
especially at the moment in which the uterus is the Mandans of all Fluxion pars. These disorders
consist friendly cramps, tightness, toothache, headache, migraine, general breakdown, lancinating
pains breasts. Sepia also corresponds in chlorosis, but rarely enough
alone for editing.

= E. = nervous and neuralgic affections .-- In discussing these conditions, stressing its venous
and asthenic character, character, setting out its relations with the effects of sepia. The migraine
is symptomatic of gastric or uterine disorders, the patients are weak, constipated, sad, usually
pale, dry, hysterical men have usually heartburn, digestion difficult and cold feeling timid to air
currents.

The hysteria is characterized by cold in the back and even everywhere crampy in the stomach,
limbs, and even more in the chest; dominance of sorrow.

The toothache is pulsating, aggravated from cold air, particularly annoying to the pregnant and
finally, like many other neuralgias's own sepia, and complicate joins
fluxions, movements to blood, palpitations, oppression and evil to
a thousand different displayed a preference for the night, after dinner,
and dissipate by exercise promotes violent sweat.

Sepia should also accesses oppression in nocturnal epileptic seizures, in delusions and agitation at
night with some kind of sleepwalking, in the third period of whooping-cough, and also in the second,
when there is a defect that contributes to herpetic perpetuate the disease or increase bronchial
irritation.

= F. = .-- Skin Conditions Skin Conditions in which the cuttlefish is effective are:

1. No. The fluxion erysipelatous, especially of the face, that recur in menstrual periods;

2.
º The erythema intertrigo and other irritations of the folds of the
limbs, excoriation the nipple and foreskin, and the disposition to
ooze that offer even the most slight damage skin;

3.

No acne and certain warty lesions and tuberculosis of the skin, pitiriásicas
plates, itching and tingling;

4. º varicose ulcers of the extremities,
with oozing.

5. º furfuraceous eruptions, vesicular, lichenoid, herpes or circular ring, the pruritic the outer
ear and the side and bottom of the face.

But it has been exaggerated much the effectiveness of Sepia in all these skin conditions, and
must satisfy the physician that only the best, leaving to other medications
the merit of the cure.

We excepting the annular herpes heals very well with this drug.

It is obvious, all cases, insisting on its use, if you want to cure diseases or modify advantageously
skin.

We ended up here because we have gone through the main indications for Sepia. If for some have
exaggerated the importance of an inert substance that passes by, and for other we have reduced
and limited its application, I understand all that art is based on observation, and that experience
is science, so we appeal to his good faith, and we encourage you
to continue watching and experiments.

= Dose .=-- The cuttlefish is a drug administered on the first three or attenuation crushing,
can act advantageously as alterative in conditions rebels in this concept, it can be used at
the dose of 1 to 2 decigrammes several times a day.

But it is often more effective in irritative conditions, and injuries of the sensitivity and
contractility, resorting to more high attenuation of the sixth to the thirtieth, at a dose of 2 or
3 drops or 5 to 6 cells in water for twenty-four hours.

Silicea (silica).

§ I. - History.

The silica obtained by procedures that we must address here is an earthy substance, an oxide base
unknown even as it is called silicium. The silica form, its combination with different bases, different
salts scattered in nature and the land. Recommend with confidence the study of silica to the authors
who claim to know the mineral waters regardless of silica and silicates that some contain [21].
They are classified with names more or less acceptable, iodized water, ferruginous, alkaline
..... but not yet created the kind of silica, although some properties due to silica. This
alone is enough to prove the serious mistakes of the current classifications of waters if no
other more serious, if there had been almost completely neglected the study of physiological
symptoms each produces medicinal mineral spring in particular. We wanted to give this work
a comprehensive study of the healing waters of Bondonneau, located in the district of Montelimar,
but refer readers who want to know, to the pathogenesis silicate water whose work we have published
[22].

When I first published cases of cure obtained by the silica, not surprising thoughtless unbelievers
have, but today, after half a century and countless facts activity is essential to recognize
a real, often very extensive, in silica and other renowned for inert substances and that they
are indeed a raw, natural, but which, however, when the divide and sufficiently attenuated,
acquire properties incontestable and its reduction to the molecular state, and for freedom takes its medicinal
action and the force of cohesion prevented its manifestation.

Perfectly divided these molecules transported to the smallest vessels of the economy, can enter the
stream of circulation and electric currents whose existence in the body is fully tested. The use
of the stack and reasoned application of the electricity to the treatment of diseases someday
find us with his progress certain mysteries relating to the action of drugs; explain us why,
in given cases, drugs act instantly sharply divided from one organ to another not is adjacent,
for in some diseases of the skin secretions are alkaline and the mucosal acid ..... and science
may make some laws to test the dosage, from the miasma doses, like the miasma of an epidemic
affection, to the almost equal given medication to combat it, or to the dose materials that are intended
to reconstitute the organic elements and act in a manner and reconstitutive alterative.

Not without precedents to this effect with respect to silica: many
mineral waters owe their virtues to the substance, the grinders and
stonecutters often have special conditions caused by silica, and atoms,
scattered by the air of certain workshops, cause diseases and disease
symptoms occur.

We judged that our readers are familiar medical literature and, therefore, know the work that
various authors have been published regarding this issue, so we simply to take note and take
advantage of this study.