 Although he spoke
English well, his speech in French and Spanish German accent revealed the southern as his face revealed
to the Israelite. We had our reasons for believing that industrial race belonged to another
friend of diligence, that commission Hordel talking to their pockets, without prejudice to
the elbows. Among the many benefits go by rail and telegraph should be counted as first-order
quasi-abolition the commis-voyageur, or commission, the most obnoxious pest that can give a traveler.
The part-telegraph and steam wagon, in fact, make it almost unnecessary to send these locusts
other markets to seek placement for manufacturing products. In Italy, Spain and other European countries
where the railways are still in the beginning, the commission emissary France, England, Belgium
or Germany is firm or with any consistency. So is that in Barcelona, ??Valencia and the Andalusian
cities I had to find that plague all hotels or inns.

The commission (especially as neither the French) is able to discredit
his country, wherever you want, with their own resources.

Ignorant, conceited, rude, swindler often charlatan to cause headaches, he is seen everywhere
teasing those who have the candor to admit their company. One exception to this rule is a prodigy.
The more than forty in Spain I met a bear. Our German Jew began to succumb, as to their nationality,
then, for fun, we made many charges against Great Britain, and Germany was declared for not
accepting responsibility. I pretended that I had strong opinions and said recalcitrant I was a horror to
admit the Jewish Rothschild in the British Parliament, because the breed damn did not deserve
any consideration. Then he sprang like a spring agitated, angry and terrible, as if his race
had to speak for his mouth and confessed Israelite a candor that we tore them all an explosion
of laughter. I did not have, difficulty in convincing that I did not have any religious or racial
concerns, and to his own as estimated one of the most beautiful, tough and aggressive in the
world and one of those who have contributed more, by the power of work and the feeling of brotherhood,
the progress of civilization. Run and embarrassed the former English tourist, leaned back in
his corner and three oranges chow and six biscuits, by way of compensation, with him more reflective.
The next day, in Malaga, we caught him red-handed in the hotel, featuring a merchant all his
collection of cards with samples of goods, and although it was held in the female conquests,
cosmopolitan confessed that his trips had been made not by an English tourist but a Robust
German Jew, rake HB & C meetings and Manchester.

It was six o'clock when we came to Loja, after the first cut soft throats or modifications of
the Sierra-Nevada.

Except in Switzerland, I have not seen anything more picturesque, small class of lovely landscapes
freshness, which the box surrounding to Loja. It is a fairly large city, because it has more
than 17.000 inhabitants, and lies about 45 km from Granada and 56 from Malaga. Its agricultural
products are the general Andalusia, but is notable for its manufacture of cloth and paper.
It is the country of water par excellence, delicious and very abundant. Not only has over
two hundred public sources and individuals, but have now arrived at centuries in his term,
more than 5,000 watersheds. The population, ugly, uneven, graceless, sad and quite dirty, makes
a strange contrast with the alderredor. Situated on two hills separated by Jenil, with most of its
mass on the left bank, the dominant almost everywhere the buttresses of the Sierra, and offers
a delightful view to a large portion of the Vega of Granada.

The sun was just beginning to produce on their gorgeous snowy peaks
reverberations; a broad belt of fog encircled the neighboring hills
in half, leaving open the eminence with its huge granite boulders,
and low hills, and valleys Jenil deep and winding of fresh, green,
flowers, studded with mills and factories exquisite gardens and rows
and groups of white poplars and other trees upright.

The earth seemed to rejoice, greeting the sun and his admirable Andalusian sky with a concert
voluptuous harmonies and delicate aromas evaporate.

After Loja, the road continues to rise and snails among well-cultivated beautiful hills towards
the heart of the Sierra. The Colombian traveler who travels the roads that cut Spanish Sierras,
can not but smile with disdain, remembering that in Colombia there are lazy doomsayers who believe
the Andes have been condemned to solitary confinement to the inhabitants
of many mountainous regions of the New World.

Seeing what has been achieved, in point of railways and highways in regions of the Alps, the Pyrenees
and the mountains of Spain, I said: "No, the Andes, far from being obstacles are the most wonderful
gift God has given to New World, and the people who can use them will be the happiest of the earth.
Willing and money all regions of the Andes are likely to admit when roads and railways may need
social movement. "

In the midst of this ocean of naked mountains, hills whimsical, high plains and small and huge
chasms, run without any risk of prosecution by an excellent road. It seems at every moment,
to turn a sharp corner, which is the measure to save a cliff jumping from one hill to another, depending
on the terrain is rugged.

This anda surprise surprise. I have not seen anything so romantic, so beautiful and sad as harshly
those low plains of the Sierra-Nevada, which seem to make dried lake beds many centuries. Upon
entering the premises of one of these flats, rooms Vastis Emerald pavement between colossal
walls of iron and tin, it is believed that no output way forward. The vegetation is a poetic
sadness, because the whole floor is covered planting of wheat and other cereals or legumes,
on whose carpet stand out Here and there, huge, dark and majestic oaks of vegetable life these
calls in Spain oaks, whose branches produce cork. Those trees are very numerous there, as
in all alti-plains of the Spanish Sierras, and are fairly traded considerable. Nature, providing
that the man invented the bottle as a second belly to keep the wine, has inhabited the land of cork
trees in the upper plains to the slopes where it grows the generous vine. If all the oaks
that grow in the world occur even for corks! ...

At around these simple paintings of vegetables are raised in complete great circle granite rocks and
ink appearance but unique, all rugged, rough, wrinkled and huge cracks - some ashen and dull
pewter color other with a twinkle sad some black or brown, - presented the most curious play
of light and shade, as the inclination the sun, and as rounded tops, and in extravagant peaks,
truncated cones or needles, or in rows that mimic jagged circular
and great iron crowns.

On top of these bare heads and those moles in surprising ways without any visible stratification,
perpendicularly to excel in the distance, like lamps of silver and diamond earrings sky, soaring
domes and broken backs of the snow in the Sierra. What is of supreme beauty, which the artist invites
contemplation and defies description ....

Sales had happened (and certainly "would not remember" a certain tortilla made with rancid oil,
as used in Spain, which lasted between the palate and fauces more a week), had left the center
of the Sierra, and we began to descend from an immense nursery of mountains and hills prodigiously
complicated and intertwined. The region of the oaks was over, and crossed the skirts and the
inclined planes where is a very extensive cultivation of the vine.

Is like saying we were going neck bottle (cork) to his belly drunk (grapes) understands how great
will be the producing vineyards in the province of Malaga, almost entirely by their wrinkled
terrain bare mountains, just to see that even in the most outstanding and the deep ridges and
slopes more rugged the land is covered with vineyards.

Suddenly, a high back, bend, the horizon is opened before our eyes, without any eminence interrupt
the vast panorama. Amazing beauty that awaited us! In the valley bottom, the coast and the
city of Malaga, later the shimmering desert Mediterranean narrowed by two continents, the distance,
visible only with the help of telescope, the blue mountains of Africa, vague, choppy and confusing,
to the coast Tetuan, and all covered by a beautiful clear blue sky,
lighted by an almost tropical sun: the magnificent African sun!

What is contemplated, admiring with supreme fit and then rapture deep, but does not describe
.... I felt my heart beat on a hill de los Andes, in the presence of a plain-ocean ....

* * * * *

Under the artistic point of view and the intellectual, Málaga is a city of little interest. They
reign only industry and commerce, and historical memories hardly reveal in relation to the
time of the Arabs or Moors, in the general structure of the city, in some traditional arts, but many
curious features of little importance, especially in sea ??and sky.

       Indeed, the sea and sky suggest Málaga every moment in Africa whose
atmosphere, bathing with hot flashes the Spanish coast, is as a link
junction between the two semi-continents wave from the top of Rocky
Mountain above the Mediterranean.

The valley that lies Malaga, framed between the sea and the foothills of the Sierra, is very small.
Spread on the coast in a circle as 20 kilometers, extends towards the west and between strings
of hills, in a very narrow valley that cut through the Gundalhorce, small river that cuts the plain
at a short distance from the city, and Guadalmedina that divides, running laboriously through
a bed of fine sand, and it lends variable to excessive flooding by depression or wide beaches along
its banks.

The plain is a beautiful garden view from the mountains overlooking to Malaga. They not only
grow a thousand trees orchards, vineyards and all the lavish productions of the fertile Andalusia,
but harvest Cotton, snuff and much cochineal, grows and prospers sugar cane, and one might think
which is planted on a piece of African soil.

East side of the coast extends in a narrow strip of curb lines and whimsical in the direction
of Velez-Malaga and Motril. North tightening effect and dominate the complicated buttresses of the
Sierra-Nevada, and west stand thousand luminaries that bristle all the land, towards Cadiz, the
line of the Sierra de Ronda, where the most amazing geological formations as well as considerable
social curiosities.

Ronda has a reputation as a curious little town in the province of Malaga. If this has a population
of 451.406 inhabitants (the seventh in Spain in that order), its active capital is 94.289, including
their Egido. Malaga is one of the great centers of liberalism in Spain, including Madrid,
Barcelona, Seville, Cadiz and all the cities social movement. Wherever trade industry political action
or give rise to a strong social life, popular sentiment bends towards freedom and progress.
Conservatism does not have its strengths in Spain but in cities where there is immobility
and silence.

The Malaga alderredor gardens contain many very beautiful and valuable estates where cottages are
of considerable elegance, and some artistic wealth. In the Guadalhorce valley there are beautiful
sea of ??orange and lemon plantations that make remember the beauties of the Huerta de Valencia.
Consumption is incredible which makes Europe the fruit or acidic
and aromatic essences of those forests of lemon trees.

At around of orchards, gardens and farms and factories in the valley, succeed in arenas curds
cut hills of vineyards. The richness and variety of these vineyards is amazing (Compared to
the difficult terrain), because not only is a huge production white wine, red and orange,
more or less aromatic and pleasant, whose fame is universal, but get plenty of those famous
special grapes for the preparation of delicious raisins. I must say, in deference to the popular
adage, I had trouble drinking good and get good wine grapes in Malaga.

Almost a third of the city consists of new construction, in general splendid very attractive for
its many balconies and shutters or cabinets flown, green or blue, their marble floors, large iron railings,
its cheerful and its rooftop lookouts Oriental style. In the new part the streets are spacious
and clean, abundant large hotels and cafés, one can see the convenience and taste, and is not
true likeness material with the inner cities of Spain.

Alameda's famous street is a splendid promenade where abundance of giant trees, fountains, statues
and granite canapés, including two rows of elegant buildings. Likewise, the buildings that dominate
the coming spring or port, relevance, progress of taste and vitality of the maritime cities.

But
the bulk of the city, old building, is an incomprehensible maze of streets at first, dark, very
narrow, usually dirty, getting some to a degree incredibly filthy. There whimsical buildings, extravagant,
Barbados any weighting, semi-Moorish, half-Spanish, whose stirring constantly moles in tightness
and squeezing without pity, a large and active population of more heterogeneous types. The
elegant and beautiful Malaga (women are very nice there in large numbers) is spent visiting the rich
stores and fashion shops and sights, shaking with a grace inimitable
the range of ebony or sandalwood pearl ornaments and rich with graceful
landscapes and seduces by the grace of his walk, but worth rid.

And no less striking for their accents and mischievous air of ... minor Malaga, - type that mediates between
the manola and grisette - dressed brightly colored cloth, bare-headed, lively and provocative,
winking Eye dangerous ability, brown and pink, plump and tempting as one of those clusters
pink ripe grapes that produce the country.

At the same time on the streets teeming swarms of workers coarse and brutal, dresses with abandonment
of seafarers of all nations, toiling commission to hunt for customers of traders worried delivered
exclusively to the fever of speculation, soldiers striped yellow, tolerably idle, road and
making a racket sutler of all the devils, some semi-nice people and bullfighters matamoros style,
and urchins all ages always abounding in the market towns, with its accompanying large ragged beggars are
inevitable in almost all Spanish cities.

Malaga The great movement not only from its strong production of wines
and other items of agriculture, significant values.

Malaga is by its position and nature terrain of the province and the neighboring port bound
for Granada, Jaen and part in the regions of Cordoba, and populations that take the side of Ronda
and the Vélez-Málaga. Apart from these reasons to centralize a vast trade, Malaga has a industrial
production or manufacturing of some importance and well mixed. There are made silks and many
red wines, some sugar, various tissues, hats, casting machines and objects, soaps, pickles,
pottery, etc.., - is working a thousand objects of art, as beautiful fans, busts delicate plaster
and other curiosities of hand - and made a huge fruit preparation
preserved and distillation.

Manchester is, without doubt, the second commercial city of Spain, Barcelona just because he
is superior.

Malaga, so rich in industries, trade and strong as wine production [4] is a poor city monuments.
The only one that deserves attention, yet surrounded by sad ending and dwindling streets, now
the cathedral. Belongs to the style of the Renaissance, the order made, and though its facade
is a very remarkable work, its magnificent tower and is tastefully itself a monument. Inside the church,
consisting of three beautiful ships, is truly great for their general forms, but no details of
their artistic value, as he makes paintings and sculptures, and there is no nobility in the architectural
conditions. Must excepted the roofs of the buildings are very beautiful, entirely of stone
and with very good reliefs, and the vast central choir, whose stalls
have delicious wood sculptures, and whose colossal two bodies are
of great merit.

The view of the panorama of Malaga is superb, when viewed from the heights adjacent home to the strength
of the Alcazaba, which remains half ruined, and the ruins of the ancient castle of Gibralfaro,
Moorish work that was located at higher elevations and communicated with that strong. From there
you can see a sad picture of majestic beauty, if you tend the view over the Mediterranean,
the distant African coast and the Spanish mountains, but smiling and happy, if only considered
the city and its port and nearby valley. The sea, so majestically around without contrast monotonous
when one of these floating cities, forms admirable civilization, which is called a ship, a treasure
of beauties and surprises where is the setting to a coast.

But nowhere is so beautiful and so sublime poetry in the English Channel and Straits of Gibraltar,
where the waves with their constant movement, its brightness vague and elusive, the floating
population and eloquent rumors seem continue in some way, rather than interrupt, the show of vitality
that is manifested on earth. This great drama of the sea, standing in spirit, but variable in form
to infinity, is a supreme mystery that seduces, fascinates, overwhelms the senses and forces to meditate.

But
in the narrow Mediterranean seduction is more powerful than elsewhere, by the contrast of races
and civilizations that are face to face through that the Valley moving, almost always haunted
by terrible storms. Seeing their movements one imagines that each wave brings in its folds
a revelation, a complaint of this world mysterious, lush, heat, power, life and barbarism called
Africa .... Strange phenomenon! Just a wide moat separates the two continents sea (or semi-continents)
HOWEVER moral and its distance is immense! The New World, so far from Europe and as colossal
has infinitely more advanced in civilization and freedom, ie in possession of consciousness or the
personality and the notion of justice that this great peninsula old world within which grows
in the great race barbarism Cham. Why this contrast? Is it because of the black race or mainly
nomas?

Sad to say the truth! Is that white humanity has worked for many centuries, the exploitation of
slavery, keep black humanity into barbarism!

The port of Malaga, although small, slightly warm and very defective sandbars throwing his breast
the storms of the Mediterranean, is always populated by numerous vessels of all nations, and
play there all the service steamers of the Spanish coasts and Africa, and rotate between the Mediterranean
and the Atlantic. The movement of ships, marine, workers and goods to the port gives an air of
joy and interest that appeal to traveler, and HOWEVER do not feel the desire to remain there
for many days, as in Granada or Seville. It understands and recognizes the commercial and industrial
merit of Malaga, but its population and the general mass of the people do not inspire sympathy.

On
arriving at Malaga we had recorded the tiny luggage, however we were coming inside the country,
and we actually talk show passports! In that there is, at least apparently, more rigor in Spain
than in France.

Spain is the country classic ridiculous formalities and vexatious, without thereby avoid the
immense scale smuggling, and stop prevaricating junior officers. Had to leave for Cadiz, after
a short stay in Malaga, HOWEVER it was necessary to endorse passports by the Government, and complete
an formula in the office of Health. It is as if to tweak a district to another would license
to ask the Mayor and notice is healthy. Governments have sometimes to the regulatory spirit
of stupidity.

It was eight o'clock and steam that would lead to Cadiz, playing in
Gibraltar, rocked gently towards the exit of the small cove of Malaga,
pitching for their two tall red chimneys their thick columns of smoke
in the breeze ripples disrupted arbolajes capricious and throwing
on the yards of many merchant frigates who parked in the harbor.

The bridge was filling with steam heterogeneous population passengers on their way to different
parts of the Spanish and French coasts and to Antwerp Rotterdam or Hamburg. The captain, strong and friendly
type, pur-sang French navy, he spent journal his luggage, and had ended as well as its list
of passengers, he set sail. Málaga shortly, so picturesque view from the sea, disappeared, and
start navigating to Gibraltar.

The sky, pale blue, had an admirable clarity, and the sun shone in all its glory South, producing
its reverberations in the movent surface waves as image of a flash fire and fascinating. The
Mediterranean was calm, and a breeze delicious warm their little
waves rippled, as if millions of sprites were combing and the vast
gently curling hair of the sleeping giant.

The fishing boats roamed scattered, looking from afar like seagulls wandering, barely touching
the transparent foam and blue the waves produced game. The passengers were divided into groups
on the bridge steam, happy and talkative, like everyone else in a steamer when not suffering the
dizziness, playing chess or dominoes, told stories of travel, or talked with interest events
in Italy, where the war had begun.