 They were all there,
without knowing why, or what, without knowing for sure who it was
that brought them together.

The field had circulated the news that evening, at dusk, would be a great revolution, and they came
exasperated by the miseries and persecutions of the strike, taking
in the Gaza an old pistol, sickles, knives or shears terrible that
one could reverse to blow a head.

They had something else: the faith that accompanies any crowd in the early stages of rebellion,
credulity, which makes the most absurd excited about news, exaggerating
each which on their own to deceive himself, believing that the true
strength to weight their crazy inventions.

The initiative for the meeting, the first story, the thought work of Madrid, a young stranger
which had appeared in the field of Jerez in the middle strike, rousing his simple with bloodthirsty
sermons.

Nobody knew, but he was a boy of great verbosity and bird account, judging by the friendships that
he displayed. Salvatierra had sent him as he said, to fill in his absence.

The great social movement that would change the face of the world, due to start in Jerez. Salvatierra
and other less famous men were already hidden in the city, to present at the time appropriate.
The troops would join the revolutionaries just enter them in the population.

And the gullible, the imaginative vividness of their race, mending the story, embellishing it
with full details. Blind faith was spread by the groups.

I was not going to take more blood than rich people. The soldiers were with them were also officers
next to the revolution. Until the civil guard, so hated by the braceros deserve sympathy momentarily.
The tricorn also sided with the people. Salvatierra walked in it and his name was enough to accept
all the supernatural miracle.

The oldest, who had witnessed the September uprising against the Bourbons, were the most gullible
and trusting. They had seen and not need anyone to try on things. The rebel general, the chiefs
of the army, had not been more than automatons, within the power
of the great man of the land.

Don Fernando had done everything he ships had revolted, he had thrown the battalions against troops
Alcolea came from Madrid. What he did to dethrone a queen and prepare the abortion of a Republic
premature, was not to repeat it when it was nothing less than to conquer the bread the poor? ...

The
history of that country, the tradition of the land Cadiz province revolutions influenced on
the credulity of the people.

They had seen with so much ease, from night to morning thrones topple and ministries, and to
take prisoners to kings, no one doubted the possibility of a revolution
more important than before, it would ensure the welfare of forlorn.

The hours passed and the sun began to hide, but the crowd knew with sure what was waiting and
how long he would stay there.

Zarandillo uncle was from one group to another to satisfy their curiosity.

He had escaped Matanzuela, fighting with the old woman who wanted to prevent the passage, against
the advice of the overseer, reminding him that at his age was not
at adventures.

I wanted to see up close what was a rigolución of poor witness the blessed time (if ever)
where workers of the land remain with her for kidneys, breaking it
into small pieces, filling the vast and uninhabited properties, making
his dream.

Trying to recognize people with weak eyes, wondering immobility of groups, uncertainty, lack
of plan.

- I have served, guys - said, - I have done the war, and this is now paves same battle. Where
you have the flag? Where is the general? ...

As much as it revolved around his eyes cloudy, saw only groups of people who seemed Aboba by
endless waiting. Neither general or flag!

- Bad, bad - I muttered .-- Zarandillo paece güelvo me to the farm. The old woman was right;
This Güel to death.

Another curious was also from group to group, listening to the conversations.

Capers was with double hat sunk just the ears, shaking his body, with
feminine swagger within ragged suit.

The farmhands acogíanlo with laughter. Does he even there? ... Would give a gun when they entered
the city, to see if was fighting with the bourgeoisie as a bold.

But the answer to the proposition gypsy with exaggerated gestures of fear. People of race did not like
war. Take it a gun! Do we have seen many Roma were soldiers?

...

- But it does rob steal - he said others .-- When touching upon how
you cast you put the body, porridge!

And laughing like a monkey capers, rubbing his hands as he spoke of
looting, flattered in atavistic instincts of race.

A former farmhand of Matanzuela reminded his cousin Mari-Cruz.

- If you are a man, capers, tonight you can get revenge. Take this scythe and gets in the Rogue
belly Don Luis.

The Roma refused the deadliest tool of the group fled to hide her tears.

Began to get dark. Day laborers, tired of waiting, moving, breaking
out in protest.

See! Who sent there? Were they going to stay overnight in Caulin? Where was Salvatierra To be
present! ... Without it went anywhere.

The impatience and discontent gave rise to a head. They heard the voice of thunder Juanon on
the cries of the people. Your athlete's arms rose above their heads.

- But who gave the order to meet ...? "The Madrid? Let's see: come, if they look.

The workers of the city, the core partners of the idea that he had left and had Jerez efforts to
re-enter the country people are grouped around Juanon, guessing him as the leader who would unite
all wills.

They found, at last, at Madrid, and Juanon approached him to see what they were doing there.
The stranger expressed with great verbosity, but without saying anything.

-
We have gathered for the revolution, that is, for social revolution.

Juanon kicked impatiently. Salvatierra But what? Where was Don Fernando? ... The Madrid had not seen
him, but he knew, he was told that was awaiting Jerez input of the people. I also knew, or
rather, had been told that the troops would be with them. The prison guard was walking in the garlic.
There was only presented, and the soldiers doors would open, releasing all imprisoned comrades.

The
giant was thought for a moment, rubbing his forehead as if to help with these Progress rubs his muddled
thinking.

- Okay - after a long pause said .-- This is a matter to be men, or not to be: getting into the
city and what comes out, that or go to sleep.

Shone in his eyes cold resolution, the fatalism of those who resign themselves to be drivers men.
Poured on him the responsibility of a rebellion that had not prepared.

Knew much of seditious movement, and those people who seemed absorbed
in the twilight, without being able to explain why he was there.

-
Comrades! - Shouted imperiously .-- A Jerez those with kidney!

Let's get the our poor brothers prison ... and what is third.

Salvatierra is there.

The first to approach the makeshift leader, was Trebujena Paco, the
bracero rebel dismissed from all the villages, as he walked the field
with his donkey selling liquor and revolutionary roles.

- I'm going
with you, Juanon, as the mate Fernando ahead.

- He who is man, and
be shy, follow me! - Continued Juanon large screams, no certainly
lead to know where peers.

But despite appeals to manhood and shame, most of those gathered is backwards instinctively.
A murmur of distrust, of immense disappointment, elevábase of the
crowd.

Most, passed suddenly noisy enthusiasm to suspicion and fear. Her fantasy of southern, always ready
for the unexpected and wonderful, had made them believe in the emergence of Salvatierra and
other famous revolutionaries, all mounted on spirited steeds, as
arrogant and invincible warlords, followed by a large army which miraculously
emerged land.

Subject to accompany these powerful aids in its entry into Jerez,
reserving the easy task of killing the vanquished, and awarded her
wealth!

And instead of this, I spoke to go alone in that city, that drew on the horizon, over the
last glow of the setting sun and seemed to wink satanically his eyes
red lighting, as drawing them into an ambush.

They were not fools. Life was hard on her too much work and perpetual hunger, but worse was
to die. A house! Home! ...

And the groups began to march in the direction opposite to the city
to get lost in the shadows, not wanting to hear the insults and the
most exalted Juanon.

These, fearing defections facilitate immobility gave the marching orders.

- A Jerez! A Jerez! ...

Out on the road.

Were a thousand city workers, and men-beasts that The meeting had
been smelling blood and they could not withdraw, as if instinct urges
them superior to his will.

Juanon Next, among the most courageous, walked the Maestrico, the boy who passed night in the Gañanía,
teaching reading and writing.

- I think we're going wrong - he said
to his companion .-- vigorous march blindly.

I have seen men running at Jerez, to warn our arrival. We expect, but not for anything good.

-
You will Cayas, Maestrico - said imperiously leader, who, proud of his office, welcomed as the
least objection .-- irreverence Cayas you, that is. And if you fear, as you najas others. Here
we are not cowards.

- I coward - the boy simply said .-- Forward, Juanon. Pa what life is worth! ...

They marched in silence, with bowed head, as if they would attack
the city.

Trotting as if he wished to leave as soon as possible to the uncertainty that accompanied them
in their career.

The Spaniard explained his plan. A jail then: to get the fellow prisoners.
There they join the troop.

And Juanon, as if he could order anything that was not for his voice, he repeated loudly:

- A prison, boys! To save our brothers!

They took a long detour to get into the city by a street, as if they were ashamed treading the well-lit
wide roads.

Many of these men had been in Jerez very few times, unaware of the
streets and followed their conductors with docility a herd, thinking
concerns the way out of there if they were forced to flee.

The avalanche was moving black deaf and dumb crowd of steps that touched the floor. Cerrábanse
the doors of the houses, apagábanse the lights in the windows.

From a balcony insulted a woman.

- Scoundrels! Ordinary riffraff!

Hopefully I'll be damned, that's what you deserve!

...

And in the stones of the pavement, echoed the shock of breaking a clay pot without that the fragments
reached anyone.

Marcasite was that from the balcony of livestock pigs, indignant against that mob, unpleasant
for its ordinariness, who dared threaten decent people.

Only a few raised their heads: The others followed later, insensitive to the ridiculous aggression,
anxious to reach as soon as possible to meet friends. Those who were in the city recognized the
Marquis, and answered his insults away with words so classic as immodest. But what that tip! Not
to hurry, she had been given a spanking by under skirts ...

The column was somewhat reflux to the top of the hill leading to the square of the Prison: The
worst site shadow of the city. Many of the rebels remembered the comrades La Mano Negra: there
had given them stick.

The square was deserted, the ancient convent converted in prison had closed all openings, with no
light bars. Until the guard was hiding behind the big gate.

He stopped the head of the column to enter the plaza, resisting the
push from those who came behind.

No! Who would help? Where were the soldiers who were to join them?

...

They soon know. Broke down a fence shooting a flame, a red line dissolving in smoke. A huge, dry
whiplash shaken the plaza. Then another and another until nine, which people, still in shock,
seemed infinite in number. It was the guard, made fire before they were put in front of the guns.

Surprise and terror gave some a naive heroism. Advanced screaming,
arms open.

- Do not throw, brothers, that we have sold! ... Brothers,
do not come from poor! ...

But the brothers were hard to ear, and
kept shooting. Suddenly the crowd started in the fear of leakage.
They ran all downhill, cowardly and brave, pushing each other, violated,
as if they whipped their backs those shots that were shaking the empty
square.

Juanon and more energetic, turning a corner contained the
flood of men. Groups rallied, but smaller, less compact. They were
no more than a hundred men. The gullible leader swore in a low voice.

-
To see: the coming of Madrid: we explain this.

But it was useless
to look for. The Madrid had disappeared in the dispersion, was hidden
in the streets to the sound of gunfire, as everyone who knew the city.
There were only Juanon beside those who were marching from the mountains
and grope through the streets, amazed to go from side to side, seeing
no one, as if the city were deserted.

- Ni Salvatierra is in Jerez,
or know anything about this - said .-- I Maestrico to Juanon paece
that have us harm.

- So I think - said the athlete .-- What we JACER?
Since we're here, let's go to center of Jerez, to Long Street.

Undertook
a march in disarray inside the city. What were relieved, instilling
a certain value, was not encountering obstacles or enemies. Where
was the guard civil? Why hide the troops? The fact remain locked in
their barracks, leaving the city in their hand, they infused the absurd
hope that it was still possible the emergence of Salvatierra, in front
of the rebel troops.

They arrived without any obstacle to Larga street.
No precaution on arrival. The road was clean transients, but in casinos
showed themselves illuminated balconies, the lower floors had no other
close to the gates of crystals.

The rebels went to the societies
of the rich hate glancing, but not just stop. Juanon expected an outburst
of anger of the miserable herd: to be prepared to interfere with his
authority as chief to mitigate the disaster.

- These are the rich!
- Said in the groups.

- Those of us who grow fat gazpacho dog.

-
Those who steal from us. Mial how to drink our blood ...

And after
a brief detention, the parade continued hastily, as if they were to
some party and feared arriving late.

Wielding the terrible shears,
sickles, knives ... To go aside the rich and would how rolling their
heads on the pavement! But there was to be on the street, they all
felt some reluctance to push the gates, as if the crystals were an
insurmountable wall.

The long years of subservience and cowardice
weighed on the rude people to be against their oppressors