 You say that you all here
appears irregular because everything is thrown into the line in Jupiter and Saturn. Well, for
the same reason is perhaps some confusion here. ? No I said that I had always noticed variety
in my journeys? Replied the Saturnino these reasons, and not completed the dispute, if the
heat she had not broken the thread of his Micromegas diamond necklace, and caidose these, that
they were very nice bright, though tiny and uneven, the thicker weighed four hundred pounds, and
fifty the most petite. Some grabbed the dwarf, and leaning saw the eyes as they were polished, microscopes
were excellent: grabbed as a kid microscope hundred and sixty feet in diameter, and was applied
to one eye, while Micromegas is served another two thousand and five hundred feet. At first they
saw nothing with them, since they were gifted, had to be put in the position that was required.
After the inhabitants of Saturn saw something bobbing imperceptible in midwater the Baltic
Sea, and it was a whale, nicely laid it over your finger and placing it in a thumb, she was
taught to Sirius, the second time he laughed at the huge smallness the inhabitants of our
globe. Persuaded by that Saturnino was inhabited our world he imagined then that it was just for whales,
and as it was great discurridor, tried to guess where the movement came to an atom so mean, and
if I had ideas, will and free will. Micromegas not know what to think, but having examined the
animal patiently, bag of consideration that he could not reside in the body as a soul boy. Inclinabanse
for our two walkers to believe that there is no reason in our room, when, with the aid of
a microscope, package distinguish other thicker than a whale in the Baltic Sea walked fluctuating.
We know that by that time returned from the polar circle, a flock of philosophers, who had gone to
make observations that no one had hitherto thought. They brought the papers public that their
boat had capsized off the coast of Bothnia, and they had a difficult time going out to rescue, but
you never know in this world there is to vnder rope. I I have naively the event, without removing
or adding anything, effort on the part of a historian is exceedingly meritorious.

CHAPTER V.

Experience and reasoning of both walkers.

Micromegas tended with great circumspection hand via the site of the object, and stretching
and shrinking fingers of fear of being wrong, and then opening them and closing them, I take very mana
the ship where they were these gentlemen, and placed on a "not too tight, not estruxarle. Lo here
a very different animal from the other, 'said the dwarf of Saturn and Sirius put the pretense
animal in the palm of the hand. The passengers and sailors tripulacioon, which is believed caught
by a storm, and thought they aground on a Baxi, are all in motion; sailors caught barrels of wine,
toss them at the hand of Micromegas, and after they are thrown; seize the geometries of quarts
circle, their sectors, and Lapp, and alight on the fingers of Sirius: Finally both were busy,
they felt it shaking a thing that beetles in the fingers, and it was a club with an iron tip
nailed him a foot in the index finger: the itching made him believe that the body had become
something The creature that I had on hand, but could not suspect anything at first, as its microscope
barely enough to distinguish a ship of a whale could not make visible a entecillo as inconspicuous
as a man. I do not want censure of any vanity here, but please vainglorious people to stop
the consideration here, and consider that if ordinary height of a man five feet of the king,
but do not lump in the ground than in a ball ten feet in circumference did an animal that
had a hundred avos thousand of an inch high.