 Moreover, assuming that space distinct from the body, yet true reality would pose serious
substance indispensable, since they are not inherent to nothing.

[65.] To explain what I have said that to be a simple thing need not be spirit, observe that: "Every
spirit is simple" is not the same as "everything is simple spirit." Simplicity is necessary to the
spirit, but not its essence. The idea of ??simple, explicit denial
of parts, and the essence of the spirit can not consist of a denial.

[66.] Against the opinion which gives the space a different kind of body into an extended substance,
does not seem worth the argument that there wanted to deduct its infinity, because even in this case,
there is no objection to point out a limit. What then beyond? nothing. We conceive extension
still vague, but the imagination Not really. Also imagine the same thing referring to a time that
we figured before the creation of the world: if they try on something
in the imagination for the many the world, would prove also for its
eternity.

And here remember that the arguments with which I have fought the space-anything, do not lie
in we imagine, but that is impossible for nothing is extension, or have any property. This capital
is the reason I challenged those who claim to be possible are designed
and there are properties that are attributed to space, and yet space
a pure nothing.

CHAPTER X.

OPINION OF THOSE WHO BELIEVE THAT THE SPACE IS the immensity of God.

[67.] Overwhelmed by some philosophers such serious difficulties, unable to reconcile with the
anything that actually offered us space, nor conceive any created thing, immobility, infinity,
perpetuity and imagined space, have said that the space was the very immensity of God. This at first
sight seems an absurd extravagance, but but then prove the falsity
of this opinion, it is necessary to do justice not only straight to
the intention of those who have sustained, healthy and sought explanations
that take hand, but also the reason that led to such an extent, by
the way, but nothing solid, Nor is negligible.

[68.] Here is how to reason in favor of this opinion. Space is something. Before God nourishing the world,
there was space. It is conceivable that there are bodies without extending space. Before there, we
think that capacity that can be placed: then the space is eternal. No movement out of space,
and in the first instant of being raised bodies, were unable to move and move. Although not
involve more than one body in the world could move, and this movement may extend to infinity.
Then space is infinite. If God annihilate the whole universe, at least one body, this body could
also move in all directions, extended to infinity. If it were then reduced to nothing the
one body, the extension would stay in that movie: it could create new bodies, new worlds. Then the
space is indestructible. An eternal, infinite, indestructible, can not be raised, then the space
is uncreated. Then it is God himself. Then must be God as we understood with relation to the
extension, then the space is the immensity of God. The vastness is that attribute by which God is
everywhere: this attribute is the relationship says to the Chapter. Space since it is the
vastness of God. Adopted this theory there is no objection to the
space infinite, eternal, indestructible.

[69.] This opinion is against him, which destroys the simplicity of
God.

If the space is a property of God, God himself, because everything in God is God. Then, being
essentially extended space, God is also extensive.
Clarke saw the force of this argument, force also made him feel the
argument Leibnitz opponent, but responds to it in a very weak. Says
that space has parts, but not separate. Then, whether as may be, does