 

Presented the last groups of dragons out to the road for various items forest. They had their
horses at a walk, as if they ache this retreat. I looked back, rifle in hand, ready to halt
and fire. Others who occupied the barricades were already on their mounts. It rebuilt the squad,
sounded the voices of officers, and trot to the accompaniment of live metal shock went away
in the rear Don Marcelo.

It was beside the barricade, in a deep solitude of silence, as if the world had suddenly depopulated.
Two dogs abandoned by the flight of their masters roamed and sniffed around him, imploring his
protection. They could not find the desired track that land trampled and disfigured by the
passage of thousands of men. A hungry cat spying to the birds that were beginning to invade
this place. With timid peck revuelos waste food expelled by the horses of the dragons. A stray
chicken also appeared to contest their feast to the granujería winged, hitherto hidden in trees and
eaves. The was reborn silent whisper of the leaves, the hum of insects, respiration Soil burning
summer sun, all the sounds of nature, which seemed fearfully contracted under the weight of men
in arms.

No exact Desnoyers realized the passage of time. He thought all this a bad dream. The calm that
surrounded him as he witnessed was unbelievable.

Suddenly he saw something move in the last term of the road, at the top of the hill, there where
white tape played the blue horizon. They were two men on horseback, two soldiers lead that
seemed to have escaped from a toy box. He had brought with him some twins that served to surprise
raids on their properties, and looked. The two riders, gray-green dresses, carried spears and his
helmet was topped by a horizontal plate ... Them!

I could not doubt: he had before him the first Hulan.

Remained motionless for some time, as horizon scanning. Then the masses vegetation that puffed
dark side of the road were out others and others to form a group. The toy soldiers are no longer
marked his silhouette against the blue horizon. The whiteness of
the road fund are now served, rising above their heads.

They moved slowly, like a troop fearing ambushes and examines her surroundings.

The convenience removed as soon as Don Marcelo had ceased to look. It was dangerous to catch
him in that place. But to lose her twins, something extraordinary happened by field of view
of the lens. Within walking distance, as if to touch his hand, saw many men who marched under
the trees on both sides of the road. His surprise was still greater than the French were convinced
that, for all wore his vest. Where did ...? The re-examined without the aid of the twins, now close
to the barricade. They were behind, in a lamentable state, offering a colorful variety of uniforms,
soldiers line, Zouaves, dragons without a horse. And mixed with them, guards and gendarmes belonging
to people who had received the news late withdrawal. Overall, about fifty. Had whole and strong,
others are held with a superhuman effort.

All kept their weapons.

They reached the barricade, continually looking back to monitor, under the trees, the slow
progress of the Hulan. In front of this heterogeneous army officer was gendarmerie old and obese,
with a revolver in his right hand, his mustache bristling with excitement and brilliance murderer
in her blue eyes shadowed by the heaviness of her eyelids. They slid across the barrier of cars without
looking at this fellow curious.

Iban to continue his progress through the town, rang a huge explosion,
shaking the horizon in front of them, making shake houses.

- What
is that? - Asked the officer looking for the first time to Desnoyers.

This provided an explanation: it was the bridge, which had just been
destroyed.

An oath of the chief welcomed the news.

But his confused troops, clustered random encounter, remained indifferent as if he had lost all
touch with reality.

- The same die here than elsewhere - the official continued.

Many of the fugitives with a prompt obedience thanked the decision,
which will deliver the torture of walking.

Most were glad they cut blasting step. Were standing instinctively covered places of the barricade.
Others were introduced in a abandoned houses whose doors had violated the dragons to use upstairs.
Everyone seemed pleased to be able to rest while fighting. The officer was a another group to
communicate their orders. They were not to fire until he give the speech.

Don Marcelo witnessed such arrangements with the immobility of surprise.

Been so rapid onset and unheard of stragglers still imagined to be
dreaming.

Could not be a danger in this situation unreal was all a lie. He went into place without understanding
the lieutenant, ordering him to escape with harsh words.

Paisano stubborn! ...

The echo of the explosion had filled the road riders. Coming from every angle, joining the
primitive group. The Hulan galloped with the certainty that the town was abandoned.

- Fire! ...

Desnoyers was enveloped in a cloud of crackling, as if the wooden
stumps all trees had before his eyes.

The squad stopped abruptly violent.

Several men rolled on the ground. Some were built to jump out of the way, bending, in order to
become less visible. Other remained lying on his back or face down,
arms in front.

Horses without Rider began a mad gallop through the fields, with the reins to the sled, spurred by
loose brackets.

And after the hard swing that made him suffer shock and death, scattered, disappearing almost instantly
absorbed by the trees.

IV

Next to the sacred grove

Argensola had a new job more exciting than
to point to the location on the map of hosts.

- I do now to continue
to taube - said to his friends -.

We present four to five, with timeliness of a right person who comes to tea.

Every afternoon, at the hour mentioned, a German plane flew over Paris, dropping bombs. The intimidation
did not produce terror: people accepted the visit as a special show and interesting. In vain
flyers dropped on the city with ironic German flag messages realizing the retreating army defeats
and failures of the offensive Russian. Lies, all lies! In vain dropping bombs, destroying and
killing dormers wounding or old, women and children. "Ah, brigands!" The crowd shook his fist the
evil mosquito, barely visible to two thousand feet high, and after this relief eyes followed
him from street to street or are immobilized in their seats to watch
developments.

A viewer of the most punctual was Argensola. At four was in the Place de la Concorde face up
and eyes open, next to other people linked to him by friendly companion relationships. They
were like the subscribers to the same theater, in force seen end up being friends. "Will he come?
... Do not come today? "Women seemed the most vehement. Some had flushed and panting by the
haste, fearing she had come late to the show ... A huge shout: "It's coming! ... There he is!
" Thousands of hands indicated a point on the horizon vague. Dragged on the faces of twins
and glasses; sellers Popular items offered all kinds of optical ...
And for an hour was developing exciting spectacle of aerial hunting,
noisy and useless.

The insect tries to put the Eiffel Tower, and the base of this arose booms, while its various platforms
fierce strumming spitting machine guns. When turning on the city musketry sounded on the roof and bottom
of streets. All pulled: the neighbors who had a gun in your home, soldiers on duty, British and Belgian
soldiers visiting Paris.

They knew that their shots were useless, but threw for the sake of harassing the enemy even if
only with the intention, waiting that chance, in one of his whims, perform a miracle. But the only
miracle was not shooters killed one another with this rash and fruitless fire. Even so, some
passersby wounded by bullets falling unknown origin.

Argensola going from street to street uproar following the enemy bird, trying to guess where their
shells were falling, wanting to be among the first that arrived in front of the house bombed
emboldened by downloads that answered from below. Not having him as a rifle the British or
those khaki-clad Belgian barracks cap and a tassel on the front! ... Finally, the Tauber, tired
of developments, disappeared. "See you tomorrow - I thought the Spanish -. The morning is perhaps
more interesting. "

The hours between geographic observations and contemplations of used air to roam around the seasons - especially
the Quai d'Orsay - the crowd watching of passengers who escaped from Paris. The sudden vision of the
truth - after illusions that the government had created optimism parts - the certainty that
the Germans were next, when a week before the imagined many in full defeat, the flying Taubes
on Paris, the mysterious threat of Zeppelins, getting crazy part of the neighborhood. Stations,
military guarded, admitting only those who had purchased a ticket advance. Some waited for days
to receive it turn out. The more eager to set off on foot, hoping
sooner be out of town.

Black are the roads with the crowds made their way through them, all in the same direction. Iban
south by car, cab, a gardener in carts, on foot.

This leakage Argensola gazed calmly. He was of those who stayed. Had admired many men because
they witnessed the siege of Paris in 1870. Now his luck gave him
the witness of a historical drama perhaps more interesting.

What might have in the future! ... But was bothered by the distraction and indifference of
his audience present. Returned to study pleased with the news that he was the bearer, to communicate
Descoyers feverish, and this I listened as if he could hear. The night I told him that the government,
Chambers, the diplomatic corps and to the artists of the Comedie Francaise were coming to those
hours in special trains to Bordeaux, his companion answered with a shrug.

Others were their concerns.

In the morning he had received a letter from Margaret: Two simple lines drawn in haste. Was leaving,
accompanied immediately went to her mother. Goodbye ... And nothing else. The panic had forgotten
many affections, cut long-term relationships, but she was superior in character to these inconsistencies
from anxiety to flee. July saw something disturbing in its brevity. Why did not indicate the
place where he was going? ...

In the afternoon took a dare that she had always forbidden. He entered the house Margaret lived,
speaking at length with the goalkeeper to acquire news.

The good woman expansion could thus give his loquacity, abruptly
cut off by the flight of tenants and servitude.

The lady on the main floor - the mother of Margaret - had been the last to leave the house,
notwithstanding that he was sick since the departure of his son. Had left the day before, without
saying where they went. All I knew was that they had taken the train
Orsay station.

They fled to the South, like all rich.

And extended his revelations with the vague news that the daughter was very impressed by reports
he had received from the war front. A family member was wounded. Maybe it was the brother,
but the concierge did not know. With so many innovations, surprises and impressions, learn difficult
things. She also had her man in the army and he concern's business.

"Where is he? --- Was asked in July during the day -. Why do you want to ignore his whereabouts
?...»

When on the night he was informed his comrade's journey rulers with all the mystery of a story
that was not yet public, merely to answer, after thoughtful silence:

-
They do well ... I will go out tomorrow if I can also.

Why stay in Paris? His family was away. His father - according to the findings Argensola - also
was gone, without saying where. With the mysterious flight of Margarita left alone in a loneliness
that inspired him remorse.

That afternoon, walking along the boulevards, had experienced something
with a friend in years, a fellow member of the Circle of fencing frequented
by him.

It was the first one was from the beginning of the war, and together they reviewed all colleagues
incorporated into army. Desnoyers questions were answered by the old. "John Doe? ... was Lorena
and was wounded in a hospital in the South. Another friend? ... killed in the Vosges. Other?
... disappeared in Charleroi. And so the heroic and funereal parade. Most were still living,
doing a great job. Other foreign partners, young Poles, British residents Paris Americans in
the southern republics, had just registered as volunteers.

The Circle should be proud of these young people who exercised in
their weapons during peace: all were in the front exposing her existence
... And Desnoyers away their sight, as if afraid guess in the eyes
of his friend a wry and questions.

Why not he walked, like the others, to defend the land they lived? ...

- Tomorrow I'll go - repeated in July, overshadowed by this recall.

But going to the South, like all fleeing the war. The next morning, Argensola was responsible
for getting a rail ticket to Bordeaux. The value of money had increased significantly. Fifty francs
delivered on time performed the miracle to provide it with a numbered piece of cardboard, represented
the conquest of which, for many, days Integer expected.

- It's for today - he said to his comrade -. You go on the train tonight.

The luggage did not require extensive preparations. Trains refused to support other packages those
carrying passengers by hand. Argensola refused to accept the donation of July, which wanted from
him all his money. Heroes need very little, and the painter of souls was encouraged by a heroic
resolution. The brief remarks to charge Gallieni the defense of Paris was hers. Thought continued
until the last effort, as the general drive.

- Let them come! - Said with a tragic -. I find on my site! ...

Your site was the study. I wanted to see things close for generations to come. Would hold, with their
supplies of food and wine. Furthermore, had the project - and his companion disappear - to bring
to live with him to some friends who wandered in search a food problem and felt fear in the
solitude of their homes. The danger approaches to good people and
add a new attraction to the pleasures of the community.

The loving expansions of the prisoners of Terror, when they expected from one moment to another
being conducted to the guillotine, revived in his memory. Tossed off the dregs of life, as we
die! ... The study of the rue de la Pompe was going to attend the same parties crazy and desperate
stranded ship with supplies plentiful.

Desnoyers left the Orsay station in a first class compartment. Mentally praised good order with which
the authority had arranged everything. Each passenger had his seat. But at the Austerlitz station
a stampede attacked the train. The doors were opened as if they were to break, packages and
children came through the windows as well as missiles. People are pushed to the roughness of
a crowd fleeing a fire. In space reserved for eight people were installed fourteen, the corridors
are blocked forever with lots of luggage, which served to new passenger seat. Had disappeared
social distance. The villagers invaded preferably luxury cars, believing find them more space.
Those with first-class ticket went in search of worst cars in the vain hope of traveling well
off. On side roads waiting one day before your departure time long trains made up of cattle cars.
Stalls trailers were full of people sitting on the wooden floor or on chairs brought from
home. Each train was a camp that wanted to start, and while he still, a layer of greasy paper
and fruit peels was forming over it.

The attackers, when pushed, is tolerated and condoned fraternally. "In war as in war, "they said as
a final excuse. And each one clutching a neighbor to snatch a inch seat, to introduce their small baggage
hanging over packages people with the most improbable balances. Desnoyers was gradually losing
its advantages of first occupancy. He inspired pity these poor people who had waited the train
at four in the morning at eight o'clock in the evening. Women wailed in exhaustion, right in the corridor,
looking fierce envy those who occupied a seat. Children cried a hungry goat bleating. July finally
give way, dividing between the needy and improvident all foods that had provided Argensola. The
restaurants seemed stations looted. During the long wait the train, only military were on the platforms,
soldiers running to hear the call of the trumpet to return to take
his place in the strings of cars going up and rose to Paris.

In sidings, rail of war long hoped that the route is free to continue travel. Cuirassiers,
wearing a yellow vest on his chest of steel, were sitting with legs hanging on the doors of wagons
stables, inside which they neighing. On the gray platforms harmonic alignment. The slender throats
75 pointed to the top like telescopes.

He spent the night in the corridor, sitting on the edge of a suitcase, watching others slept
the brutalization of fatigue and excitement.

It was a cruel and endless night of shock, clatter cut by snoring and pauses. At each station,
the trumpets sounded hastily as if the enemy was near. The soldiers from the South ran to
their jobs, and a new wave of men were dragged along the rails to
Paris.

They seemed happy and eager to arrive early to the places of slaughter. Many appear to believe lamented
late. Julio, looking out a window, heard the screams and dialogue on these platforms impregnated
with a pungent odor of men and mules. All showed an unshakable confidence. "The Boches! ... Numerous,
with big guns, with many guns ... but there was no rather than the
bayonet charge and fled like rabbits.

"

The faith of those who went to meet death in contrast to the panic and doubt the fleeing Paris.
An old gentleman and decorated, kind of official retirement was Desnoyers to questions when the
train resumed its march. "Do you think that will come to Tours?" Before receiving a reply
fell asleep. Stupefying sleep wore her down the aisle lead foot.
Then the old man woke up suddenly.

"Do you think that will come to Bordeaux ?...» And their desire not to stop until you reach your
family will absolutely safe shelter did accept vague answers as oracles.

At dawn they saw the country's territorial guarding the tracks. They were armed with rifles
old, wore a red kepi as the only distinctive military. They kept going in the direction opposed
the military trains.

In the Bordeaux train station, the civil crowd, struggling to get out or for assaulting new
cars, mingled with the troops. The trumpets sounded ceaselessly to bring the soldiers. Many
were men of color, indigenous handles large gray pants and a red
cap on black or tan face.

North continued to the tight roll of the armed masses.

Desnoyers saw a train of wounded from the fighting in Flanders and Lorraine. Uniforms cooling
of dirt fatigued with the whiteness of the bandages that held members sore or broken heads
defended. All seemed to smile with their mouths livid and feverish eyes to the first land of the
south that showed through the morning mist, crowned sun, covered with the royal robe of its branches.
Northern men spread their hands to the fruits that were offered for women, picking grapes with
the sweet delight of the country.

Spent four days in Bordeaux, dazed and disoriented by the agitation
of a provincial town suddenly converted into capital. The hotels were
full, many characters were content with a domestic room. The coffee
did not keep an open chair, the sidewalks seemed repel this extraordinary
crowd. The Head of State was installed in the prefecture ministries
were established in schools and museums, two theaters were enabled
future meetings of the Senate and the House popular. July found a
seedy hotel and equivocal at the end of the street by passers-by constantly
damp. A cherub adorned the glass door. In his room, the mirror was
recorded women's names, phrases intranscribibles, in memory of lodging
an hour ... And still some ladies Paris, engaged in seeking an accommodation,
envied so fortunate.

His findings proved futile. The friends who
found the fugitive mob think of their own fate. Only knew about the
incidents of installation; after hearing the news repeated to the
ministers, with whom he lived familiarly; mentioned with a mysterious
air of the great battle that had begun to develop from near Paris
to Verdun. A disciple of its glory, who kept the old style in her
nurse's uniform, he gave vague reports. "" The little Madame Laurier?
... He remembered have heard someone who lived nearby ... Maybe in
Biarritz. "No longer needed for July resume their journey. A Biarritz!

The
first person I met upon arrival was Chichi. Population declared uninhabitable
by rich Spanish families who vacationed there: "They are mostly small
holes. I spend fighting there. I will end by living alone. "Then he
found his mother, hugs and tears