 My mother God
rest in heaven, hugged me and she started to mourn: "Linilla, - I said - God give bread, we
will ask him. " And I got on his knees, and I was praying with folded hands on his chest, like
an angel of those who saw the other day in the chapel of San Antonio.

My father was a soldier, he was always in war, or conspiracies, and
therefore his enemies, those of the opposite party of death haunted
him.

I did not see more than once. They had won their own and came to us. He brought a lot of money
and we bought clothes and furniture, and me sweets and toys, and a Rorro very cute, blond and
blue eyes, saying, "Papa and Mama." I have not forgotten my father was a tall, of beautiful
eyes, very twisted his mustache.

Hugged me warmly, kissed me, and Lina exclaimed :--«¡ lifting me! Linilla! Who is my charm? Who
is my medal? Who I want a long, long ... Mu ... cho! "

But one day he went to war .... Always the war and revolutions! It was early morning, and he went
with officers and soldiers.

We went to say goodbye. I picked her up, kissed me eyes, hugged my mother, then mounted his
horse, and said, 'Hasta la vista !...» and left. We did not see him. That war lasted three years.
He was not to know what state away, and we we wait your turn.

One day my mother received a letter. My father called us. Was obliged to obey, and then As we sell,
furniture, clothes, everything in the house, we started our journey soloists, in a carriage that
gave many bumps and it was very noise running down the pavements. We walked day and night, and
we only stopped at the inn to sleep and rest a few hours. Before dawn, the carriage again, again
empty roads, afraid of thieves. We used to go through some towns. The car stopped, got off to
go to the restaurant, ate, and from walking. One day my mom complained that it hurt head. He
had fever and was obliged to stay in a village in an inn. I slept with her, I remember burning
with fever, his body burned like an ember. I woke up at half night, and I said: Mom! Mom! And
did not answer, remained dead. Once, seeing did not respond, I began to mourn .... Then my
mom came to, and tucked me saying things I did not understand, very
strange things.

Dad told me that my mother had typhus.

The landlady called the Father, and when he arrived the patient had lost consciousness. Came
town doctor and stated that it was too late, that the agony was close!

-
No live one hour .-- ...-- said Father, Put the oils!

- This creature
should not be here ...-- replied the priest, placing the stole - that
take my home!

I did not want to part with there. I resisted, I cried, I wept ... but in vain! I was a little
one seven years, and yet, I realized what was happening: he would never see my mother. Crying
I and my tears were tears of great pain. My mother was dying, was not to see me anymore. They
took me to the rectory. There is nothing I amused or comforted me, I spent the day without eating,
sullen, unwilling to the attention of the father and the gift of an old woman, housekeeper of
this modest home. I snuggled on the couch, where I gave up the dream, and then took me to bed.
At midnight I woke up, crying, calling my mom. The old woman came to see me, me clothed and
was stroking until I fell asleep. In the morning, when I opened my eyes my mother asked. I
said I was in heaven. The old woman washed me, clothed me, and gave me breakfast. To distract
me to the room and gave me toys, dolls birth, pastors, goats, sheep,
a cardboard house, a mill with its wheel that spinning move by blasting.

When the priest returned from the church sat down beside me and asked me many questions, "How your
name? How's your mom? Do you Dad? "I do not know what I said .... The priest says that my answers
got enough to know who we were, who my father. Found in the trunk of letters and papers, documents
which gave news about the residence of my father. He wrote immediately, giving the fatal news,
but the letter did not come into his hands. Wrote again and received no response. The author of
my life had died too. Perished in a skirmish. His body was dragged and paraded as a trophy
of glory, the sound of music victorious, by a drunken soldiers celebrating an unexpected victory. The
priest is then went to my relatives, who refused to pick ... "We
do not want children", - he replied - "do not want orphans are ungrateful,
they eventually pay."

I am told that when the holy old man received a letter from my relatives, said: 'Hearts stone!
God forgive? "He brought this child into my home? Well mine is. " Then I called, and taking
my head between her hands, she said sweetly, "Doll: from now on I
am your father I am your father!

"" Dad called him since then and since then he calls me "doll." Some Sometimes I say "Linilla" as
my parents told me.

Angelina was over the bouquet, a bouquet of violets, and I approached
him to aspire I am the soft scent of flowers.

- Linilla?

Linilla "you say?

Linilla Well I call you me! Follow the story ....

- Do I? History of pain!

- Go on.

- So that way, I went to the house of the father, father has been
for me, and very tender and loving.

Otherwise you know, what you have told your aunt ....

- And that is the sad story of your life?

What say, Linilla mine - I said - all I grieve and grieve? Why question my love, that you have
put in doubt when I breaks the heart, saying you were not worthy
of me?

"Unworthy of my love, my Linilla?

Why? Why have you been unhappy because you are an orphan? On the contrary, my dear, what more
reason to be loved?

Angelina remained downcast as racked with a sad foreboding, as if
afraid say something that embarrassed her.

- Speak!

... Answer me!

...

The orphan was silent, low forehead, opening with the tip of the fingers
within the tight a pale pink.

- Linilla ... Do not be cruel!

Painfully sighed, shook his head to throw back a braid that fell over
shoulder, and whispered softly, softly, perhaps anxious not to be
heard:

- I have not said everything ... and I must say.

Listen, for pity's sake!

I do not want to say ... but My heart cries, Speak! Speak!

- Well, tell me!

- Yes, Rodolfo: I am not worthy of you.

You yourself have said many times in front of your aunts, before
me.

- Me, Angelina?

- Yes.

- Me?

- Yes, y. ..

How you made me mourn!

- Me, Angelina?

- Many times. Did you come! To what you knew! Rodolfo: Why do I love? Why you I love? What cost me tear
your love! Look, if you do not deserve to love me, forget, forget; I go from here, crying, yes, crying
... but I'll go to the Sierra, to any part .... You can be happy.

Just start living .... The human heart is fickle, the day will come
when I forget .... Love another and be loved, and be happy!

- Angelina
- I said pleading - what is that?

Listen: this poor heart of mine, had not ever loved: I came to this
house and told me about you; I said you were an orphan, an orphan
like me and you were nice to me, and I said you were good, very good,
and I became interested in you, I read your letters, I saw your picture,
and found that they were like I dreamed you, you came, and I shuddered
to hear your voice, I spoke ... Remember?

... and drowned the voice in my throat and my heart fluttered trembling with love. Then ... What
to say! ... You said: "I love you, and I wanted to be quiet, and I could not, and when you
try to kill your baby with a word disdainful, opened my lips and
said: "I love you too!"

- Yes, I love you, Angelina!

...

- Listen.

I have hurt the heart, has saddened my soul .... But I forgive, I forgive you, because you did not know what
you did .... I'm sure.

- When and how?

- You said once ... and
I've repeated many times ... "I will never marry anyone who is not
worthy me, and not worthy of being the wife of an honest man whose
parents it ... "I'll say once .... The union of mine did not have
the blessing of Heaven.

- Sorry !...-- muttered.

The orphan was silent, his eyes moist and fell off two tears that fell in the violet as two drops
of dew.

- Sorry! - Repeated, shaking the girl in my arms, and drawing his gallant head .-- Forgive Linilla!

And
awed me gently away.

- Do not forgive!

If I love you with all my heart .... You know who I am .... In my
life There is nothing I'm ashamed ... but in mine .... You know everything!

... I made you suffer, right?

Yes, because you're crying .... Forgive me ... It was necessary .. Later I would have told you had
cheated.

I took the girl's hands and took them to my lips. She smiled, withdrew them, saying gracefully:

-
"And the story that came by a little silver left by a little gold."

XXIX

Angelina's revelation left me sad, depressed, embarrassed. Then I realized certain melancholy of
the girl, when I talked about weddings and engagements. I set the mood calm of the girl, take,
as far as possible, the bad impression that my light and my careless words had caused, and got
it. I showed him my little thought not should be a source of disgust, and put all my effort that
I had understood that the that was just the repetition of opinions read in I do not know which
book they heard not know what people. I never thought Angelina wounded to the quick, I could
never imagine that poor she knew the story of his unhappy mother.

I also knew, because of my aunt who always refused to tell me how and how Angelina was the home
of P. Herrera, loving the old, the holy priest that I saw, and rightly, in his adopted daughter,
an angel down from heaven to brighten the dreary hours of rural life. And I had little difficulty
get my beloved forget my sayings inappropriate and cruel. Rulings, judgments and opinions hear
in the world that seem thoughtful and fair, and we slightly, repeat, we make our own, and
it often happens that later we realize that we have repeated nonsense.

Linilla - so I called in front - did not touch the point, and always
showed me friendly and happy.

I did not go out to the street rather than work hours, and returning
the I spent my office hours next to the orphan, more and more in love
with her.

One or twice all season, went to the Christmas raffle, which gathered every night Plaza on the
peaceful inhabitants of Villaverde.

Games or music or me were pleasant; I care not stop the beauty of my countrymen, or the elegance
and grace of Gabriela.

- Do not go to the sweepstakes? - Said my aunt.

- Do not I have fun, I prefer to stay home, reading or chatting with
you.

- You do not look young, the patient replied !...-- Rorra.

-
All young people your age die to go there, - said Aunt Pepa - only
you, as an old pussy, you're within the four walls.

While I was there, about Angelina.

I never tired of looking at it: every word was to me a poem. I was very happy. What greater chance
that separate me from your side!

One of the pharmacists put at my disposal all his books, two or three hundred volumes of poems
and novels.

Then I read a lot, loudly, while my aunt worked and Angelina; then
I made many verses, many daily.

Angelina was celebrated with a heat them and enthusiasm such that the good girl blushed to
hear them.

- Do not say those things, Rorra, - used to tell me - because I do
not think so.

If you paint me beautiful graceful as a Murillo virgin!

Tell prose, here, talking to me, love me long, long, and I have happy,
satisfied and happy.

Angelina was not beautiful like a virgin Murillo, but it was like one of Raphael, as the Madonna of
the chair. I can not see the famous picture without remembering the maid. The identical oval face,
and smile, and eyes, and lips sweetly expressive.

At times, after spending long hours in my room, I went out with paper
in hand, seizing the moment when Angelina was left alone.

- Verses?

"Verses for me, is not it?

And I will take them away, read them quietly, smiling and blushing,
while I placed her back, was following in reading.

- Nice! - Exclaimed
.-- But all these things I enjoy most when I say them without thinking.

I do not know why, but the lines always seem to me silly lies!

Fold the paper, it is kept, and I pointed to a seat:

- Here, near me. Tell me, Rorra: do you love me so much as say, as I love to you?

Began the conversation, and on, and spent the time and did not feel run times, happy, blessed with
the happiness of those who love and are loved.

We gave for gardening.

Prepare the tables and planted roses, carnations, lilies, lilies,
we promised for next spring full of flowers.

Planted around the source favorite flower, the lovely blue flower,
the sweet myosotis, so beloved of lovers.

What care with our plants! What I want to bloom soon! We divide the beds into two parts. Linilla
planted one, I the other.

- Where spring the first flower?

"In my pictures or yours?

- In mine, because I love you more than
you to me!

- No, not in yours because I want as I love ....

- You'll
see.

- We'll see.

The love and joy of being loved graced the young. Never more beautiful. Her pale face took soft
pink ink, her lips before discolored, burned, and his black and bright eyes gleamed, wet and happy.
She always so modest and enemy of galas, became presumidilla. Graciously combed her hair and
adorned with a flower used; usually with half-open rosebud, purple
or white, which made it seem more intense the blackness of that silky
hair, black as raven wings. Every evening, at parting, I told him:

-
Linilla: the flower ....

Angelina flowed from her hair the desired
flower, and I offered it for granted, as offered inciting a child
to finish cutting fruit.

I pretended anger:

- So, Miss?

- So, sir!

-
No, as you know ....

Linilla smiled, kissed the flower and gave it
to me. Inolvidables besos! Sweet kisses collected in the corolla of
a rose!

XXX

We had a very merry Christmas party, and nobody expected
it. Andrew came and told my aunts:

- Ladies, we must have party.
In years past Christmas Eve was for us very sad .... Now there must
be so, no, sir, because I want the little master is happy. Everything
runs in my account. To you I will be playing the most painful, arrange
it, and make the donuts. No donuts there Eve! There you, Angelina,
you are painting for all that! We will table in the room, and you,
Mrs. Carmelita, dine with us