 And not only known,
but so was given as a marriage in the more or less distant. Passed months, however, and that
is not a step forward. The testimonies given by Gonzalo his love remained the same. Most of
the days were reduced to happen next eating in front of the house of a wealthy merchant, to
go to the casino. Cecilia used to be sewing behind glass. His hat, smile, go ahead, then the
pool, and even another day. Don Melchor was charged twice more errands for Don Rosendo, but had
the good lucky to find him always in the office. We say good luck, because Gonzalo trembled before
the idea of ??going up to the house and tripped over Cecilia.

Had already served twenty years. The idea of ??becoming an industrial engineer and engaging in
something useful, occasionally returning to his spirit in the midst of lazy life. Comrade which
turned from a military academy, the conversation with a British engineer, the phrase of contempt
in the casino I heard about that had no career, despertábanle Suddenly the desire. Finally,
one day he told his uncle that if he gave permission was going to England to study something and
see the world. As Don Melchor nothing could be opposed to this just and laudable purpose, Gonzalo
ran a few days after the houses of relatives and friends, where for years that not set foot,
to say goodbye, and a peaceful and beautiful late spring embarked Watch round the brig bound
for Britain.

Do you remember Cecilia? We do not know.

In temperaments like our youth, fire of the passions takes time to turn, although in the end
cause havoc.

Three years passed. He finished the race engineer who is short and practice in England and was
determined to visit the main factories in this country and France and Germany. In the studying
long lasting memory of Cecilia asaltábale from time to time, without cause, of course, very lively
emotion. Back in the spring when the blood flows more strongly veins and Mother Nature with the
green of the fields, the vivid colors flowers, the play of light, warm balmy air, and above all, through
their interpreters loyal, birds, invites us to consent in any way that the human species extinguished,
Gonzalo thought of marriage. And if this idea arose in his mind, presentábasele suddenly made
flesh in the first child of the lords of Belinchón: - "Come in, Gonzalo; Dad is waiting. ""
Do you hurt? "- was played again in his ears the words and affectionate tone with which they were
delivered up in their heart a spark of virgin sympathy. The girl was not beautiful, but her eyes do,
especially in her appeal revelábase sex in the air modest and simple, the tone of voice, exquisite
delicacy, entirely female manners. "I hate to marry her" thought with a sigh; because he judged
it impossible to dare to tell it not to miss any single word love. Until then I did not know
of such passion that the appearance and coarse material, the fleeting relationships, and sad that
women forced by night in the streets of London and Paris.

One day writing a close friend of Sarrió came up asking if Cecilia Belinchón had married. Then
said it was still single and that if it was true that some the haunted suitors enticed perhaps
by the money rather than Belinchón thank your daughter, until now no one knew who had given
ear to anyone. As you read this, you raised the blood to the face to the industrial engineer.
He had the conceit to think (to be exempted by God) Cecilia rejected the suitors in your hand
... because none was so handsome as him. Then imagine declare his love letter. Being so far
away would not shame. However, had it, and when he tried to take the pen to do so, before drawing
the first line, turned to leave when they represented the surprise that the young receive. It was
a few days. The idea never left him. By a thousand subtle reasoning tried to persuade to write the
love letter. If you laughed at him, what? did not see him. With never to return to Sarriówas
concluded, and if she would try and find it not front. At last he wrote. Took hold of it stored
in his desk drawer for several days. The idea of send it off was terrified. To decide this,
needed to drink a few glasses of rum. When he was a little dizzy took the letter from the drawer,
threw himself into the streets with verve, and mailbox first encountered
your eyes, zap! the fit.

My God, what have I done! Vanished as drunkenness. Flushed to the ears, as if through the hole
that you mailbox were looking mocking eyes of all neighbors Sarrió, and hastened to put your
fingers on it to see if it could catch the ill-fated envelope. Nothing. It had been engulfed with
the voracity of a shark, and I was already digested.

Then occurred to be in the post office and claim it, but there demanded such formalities, before
passing them preferred to let fortune.

He spent eight days in great distress. When the cards are dealt at the inn, he felt an anxiety
that stifled him, expecting to reach the packet enclosed in a huge, ugly pumpkins, just punishment
and its too much bullshit. Passed, however, eight days and even fifteen, and the answer did not
appear. It was calming with the vague hope that the letter had not reached its destination. If reached,
the illusion that forjábase Cecilia would have broken without informing anyone. But behold,
when I did not expect, is at lunchtime on the plate a letter from Spain, female unknown letter.
Is unrepresentable the anguish which assailed him. She got as white as the tablecloth. The heart
wanted saltársele chest.

Opened it with trembling hands ... Ahaa! sighed rested, after having eaten in two seconds.
She took his hand to his chest, limpióse sweat with a handkerchief, and resumed the letter and
reread it in stride.

It was, in fact, Cecilia, and was written in a gently ironic tone, that had nothing, however, offensive.
Manifestábase surprised at his sudden and unexpected return. What fly had stung after four
years of absence? His parents, who before her had opened the letter, were equally surprised,
thought it was a step thoughtless own a few years, a whim of the
moment, which probably would already be sorry.

She shared this view entirely. However, had permitted and even recommended to answer, because
it is a young villager, whose family maintained relations friendship.

This letter will soon put thrilled. No pumpkins were dismissive expected. Then he grew sad and happy
the minute again, reading and rereading it to see if it gave in the key. Were or were not pumpkins?
Hastened to reply, apologizing for his boldness, and confirmed its previous statement with new
and vehement phrases. He replied after some days the child in a more soft and affectionate. Turned
to writing Gonzalo; cruzáronse portraits Dona Paula intervened. In short, after a short time,
were two young men in relation formal.

He began to talk of marriage between Don Melchor half letter and
his nephew, then visits between the former and Don Rosendo.

Finally everything was settled, agreeing that the Gonzalo return
spring, and he performed the marriage.

III

THE COUPLE IN LOVE BEGINS TO THINK IN THE NEST

Out of the theater and those who remained. Gonzalo stumbled upon the wave of people who vomited
the door, and as was recognized, were quick to surround you and greet
old friends.

The first threw her arms around his neck was Don Mateo, then came Don Pedro Miranda Parakeet child,
then Mayor Roque after Victoriano and his wife Dona Rosario and his three daughters. In an instant
circle was formed around the young, who rushed to respond warmly
to the congratulations, hugs and handshakes that all sites will came.

The sailors, the village women took part in those manifestations of affection as well as the
gentlemen.

Nothing was heard but exclamations of wonder and joy.

- How have you gained weight, Gonzalito .-- What a real boy! - Why do not you grow like him,
parakeet? - Don Gonzalo, soups do you eat them in the head at all
.-- Growing Sarrió porters has grown what he has done is to double
the body .-- Come, grenadier, give me a tight hug.

A skipper said it seemed like a drop of water to another Prince of Wales. Gonzalo was perhaps a little
higher.

The hulk of this robust, towered over the group. Clasped hands above their heads friends who
could not reached him, and his noble and kindly face smiling at everyone.

Don Mateo, rising on the toes and swinging the arm to bend, could say in his ear:

- What role have you lost, Gonzalo! Too bad you did not come in the afternoon. The treble sang
like an angel ... And dancing! ... The dance I say, boy, that neither in the Coruña Bilbao
or better take it out ... But be not wroth, and I will repeat before he leaves the company ...
or have little power.

But Gonzalez did not attend.

Staring at the door, waiting for the restless and eager output Belinchón
family, who as principal and the most haughty, was delayed always
not to be confused with the populace.

In order to light the lantern burning on the framework the door,
he saw the face of Dona Paula and then that of Cecilia.

Tremulous Abalanzóse to greet them. The daughter blushed like a turkey (of course), and the
mother too (this is less natural). What had to do to him? Blush also, and this was what led out
in a perfect way. Three were trembling voice, and after asking for health, did not know what
to say. Loaded glances of curious people contributed in pregnant
women.

Pablito happily came to Ventura, who had left behind, and our young greeted warmly and directed
first to the second one ceremonial pitch.

Paul smiled.

- What, do you not know? Ventura is my sister.

- Oh! How could he know? She is a woman ... How are you, Ventura?

The girl reached for him with a malicious and mocking speech that you just embarrass you.

They stood up to the house.

Venturita ran ahead dragging his brother. Marched behind Dona Paula, Cecilia, Gonzalo. Rosendo
brought up the rear with his good friend Pedro Miranda. The streets were dark. Only those hours
burning lanterns corner. The distance between the three groups was becoming larger.

Gonzalo began making desperate efforts to hold the conversation with your future wife and mother,
but it is not opened his mouth, dominated, no doubt, shame, and Dona Paula walked very far
from being a Madame de Stael. Nor had helped him Conversation Dictionary, the result was that
it did not prosper. By letters had come to trust. Dona Paula often put postscripts in Cecilia. Gonzalo
replied with a wisecrack, ordered prints, caricatures for Ventura, and carried around as a member
of the family. But now the three experienced discomfort embarrassing. Our young in his life he had
spoken with Mrs. Belinchón, and Cecilia had only crossed the words we said. Then, up ahead,
Venturita laughed out loud with his brother, and boyfriends reasonably presumed that they were
on the table. However, when approached, home, the conversation was taking heat and had some symptoms
to believe that soon would king's confidence.

Formosa group to the door of the house of lords Belinchón, which was
located in la Rúa Nueva, the main street Sarrió, and was large and
sumptuous for which there stylish.

As Gonzalo had not eaten yet, Rosendo invited him up to do with them
so true, and with words so pressing that the young man who wanted
nothing, he concluded to accept.

They took leave Mr. Miranda and his son Parakeet, and the family Belinchón with the new guy was
going to be part of it, went to the house. At the reception, the ladies took off their coats and shawls.
The light returned to upsetting them.

Gonzalo could well then see his girlfriend, and noted that he had not won anything in years of
absence. Was higher, but also thinner. The love does not get fat girls. The nose, with this,
had been even more pronounced. Only those beautiful eyes, smooth, intelligent, persisted to
shine like two stars. The transformation of Venturita girl who looked cross for school, clinging
to the maid to keep jumping over him attracted wide attention. She was a woman, a real woman, not so
much height, as roundness and breadth of forms, for the singular strength of his vision and Malicious certain
glow that accompanied it. Examináronse both as two strangers in a quick glance. Gonzalo said
under his breath at Dona Paula:

- What a change the Venturita! It's a beautiful girl.

For lower than what the girl said she heard it.

Became serious with involvement, made a slight grimace of contempt
with their lips, and went right to the dining room, hiding the pleasant
tingling that this compliment had caused so spontaneous.

The table was set: a table patriarchal province, abundant, clean, without flowers or the other
elegant refinements that civilization is introduced. And to approach it, Gonzalo's pregnancy
was missing. It seemed that yesterday I had dinner there too. A gust blew joy to everyone. Cambiáronse
words and laughter. Gonzalo embraced Pablito and asked for their horses. Dona Paula managed the
distribution of silverware. Venturita sitting and, downed olives, tossing the bones to his sister
and making provocative winks, while she, with flushed cheeks and bright eyes, put her finger
to lips asking for discretion.

Don Rosendo had gone to put on your gown and cap, without which it
would have hurt dinner.

His wife invited the young stranger to sit in the neighbor set that
of Cecilia.

But it had happened at the other end of the table, and there was
about to sit.

- What are you doing, girl?

Why do not you come to your site? - Dona Paula asked with surprise.

The young man stood up without reply, blushed, and sat down next to
her boyfriend.

The classic soup steamed with eggs and butter in the center of the table.

- Look, do dish Gonzalo ... Already beginning to serve you - you said
after smiling kindly as a woman who professed similar ideas to those
expressed by St. Paul in his famous letter.

Cecilia hurried to obey, filling the bowl of his future. This had
usually an excellent appetite, appropriate to his great humanity.
Now, over-excited by the air sea ??and a few hours of fasting, was
voracious. Ate without leaving crumbs without any timidity, the placed
before him, and that Cecilia, as may be supposed, had no short-hand
to help you. When she began to eat, lost Gonzalo shame. The urgent
need for your body gigantea was essential. In contrast, Cecilia barely
touched on the food. Displaying on your plate two bits of ham the
size of two walnuts, and asked the young man

- Who do you make this
dish, for the parrot?

- No, it's for me.

- Are not you afraid that
you indigestion?

It was the first joke authorizing its future. This
said with a smile:

- Never more.

Dona Paula put his mouth to ear
Venturita, and said:

- Can not you deal with what ceremony?

Venturita
it whispered to Paul, and he to his father. All four burst out laughing,
looking the couple, while they, confused, asked to view the reason
for this sudden joy.

- Mom, do you want to tell them what we laugh?

-
Tell him.

- Well, gentlemen, we all thought that you could be dismounted
treatment.

The future spouses dropped his head and smiled