 Distractions and inconsistencies
of Telleria could be translated as: "dear friend, you call another door. " What door?, What
the candida? Intentolo Rosalia, finding in the illustrious widow All the best, but damn did
happen to her manager had not brought even the collection of houses ... Then he had gotten into
some repair costs ... In short, there was no salvation in that quarter. After Providence came
across to Rosalia via sighed relief that Gonzalo Torres constant friend of the family, the which
so often visited them at the Palace and at home in the Costanilla.

Torres used to handle outside money, and sometimes possessed no small amount of which drew some
benefit during the brief possession of them. Taking advantage of the absence her husband, Rosalie
declarole sincerity so strongly as her trouble and the good Gonzalo reassured at the time. What soon
became the roses, to speak to the poetic, the haggard lady's face! ... Fortunately, Torres was in
possession of an amount that was Mompous and Bruil, but none could delay care delivery month.
If undertook Rosalia to repay the thousand and seven hundred reais in the period of thirty days, no
problem had facilitators. Instead, he was extremely happy ... A month!, What happiness! Ni
much time she needed to collect the amount, either with relentless squeezing savings the regular
budget, or selling some items that had already gone out of fashion ... Ah, Careful ... Bringas
absolute secret ...

Secure and able to meet Sobrino Hermanos, his conscience was discharged weighing horrible. No longer
would cut the breath in fear that the unfortunate collector appeared Store when Bringas was
in the house. Regained his appetite was lost and his nerves were calmed. Because, the truth, he found himself
in those days under the action of a spasmodic disorder simulated a severe anxiety, and it was
hard to prevent her husband call the family doctor.

He was getting the shawl to go to pay (as Torres brought the money that same later), he entered
Milan. What beauty came from and what stylish! ... "Look here ... I have taken this blue ribbon
to the bodice. Tone is very new and with a green iridescent ... Do you see you like change? ...
Rest a while and then we will go together. I bring my car ... Ah! If you see such beautiful
hats have received the Tuscan! There is one that is for model, divine, highly original, supernatural.
Just imagine ... a straw Florian Italy decorated with wild flowers and black velvet ... Here,
right next to, has a aigrette with black foot well placed, well ... Behind the black veil that
falls on the back ... But ask for him a pretty penny.

"

ROSALIA .--=( feeling a buzzing in his head-buzzing and represented,
with admirable power hallucination, the whole and all parts of the
property described hat.) = Although we have not Buy, pass by there
to see.

They left together and went into the car, waiting at the door of the Prince. Milagros chatting without
fatigue. Ocupose of the things he had seen, fabrics for summer had arrived Sobrino's shop Brothers
and projected works, in order of dress, counting not very abundant with resources that have reduced
her husband. Suddenly remembered they should pay the repair and alteration of a diamond pin at home
... What mischief!, he had forgotten his purse, and in that house and gave him credit and
wanted to apply, by some unsavory issue that had once, with the owner of it ... There was no
worry about such trifles. Rosalie had money.

"Ah, well ... is the same. I'll give to you tomorrow or ... Finally, when we meet. "

For a moment he stood perplexed and bewildered Thiers good lady, not knowing whether regret the
offer he had made, or if the service gracefully welcomed paid to her friend. But the human soul is an
inexhaustible source of remedies for their own ills, and the embarrassment of Rosalia courses
require a soft spot in his reasoning that flowed very timely, which had to cope with: "Pay half
of the account Sobrino, ensuring that the other half will without fail next month. Milagros I need
the thirty dollars The poor thing, and I still have something for the piece of scarf, for two
or three feathers of the hat Isabelita and pearl buttons. The truth, I can not do without them.
" Everything is served to literally, under this reasoning program
born in the shaking of a car, running from store to store, under the
influence of intoxicating intoxication of rags.

XII

D. Francisco, absorbed in the interest of his work, not a single point away from it, using
all the time that he was free employment rested.

With bad deal had been deleted evening stroll, a custom in the old, and his friend D. María José
Manuel Pez, seeing private who was paired in this hour of toilet comfort, it was so smugly to
Palace to keep the custom of the company Bringuística.

The journey from the Ministry of Palace, Damas nothing short step were sufficient field a healthy
exercise, and if it came with D. Francisco and his wife four laps for the magnificent terrace surrounding
the large courtyard, and had secured an appetite for medium mealtime. The most loving warnings were
always ineffective to wean Bringas their task while it lasted sunlight. Or beg him or reprimand
him, or that you see for dizziness, headache or blindness, it was possible to stand on the
feverish yet ordered progress of their work. Fish chatted with him a few moments of political
events, but usually Rosalie was with a walk on the terrace. That ride was quiet and very pleasing,
because cavity of the building stands on the terrace of the ravages of air, without prejudice ventilation.
The most pure mountain air rich is for City Hall and for domestic located away from the thick breath
of the Villa and in height so that neither the pigeons and sparrows enjoy healthier atmosphere
and more quickly renewed. A walk through this monumental site flattered lady's fantasy, reminiscent
of those funds bringing architectural Rubens Veronese, Vanloo other painters put into their
boxes, which will magnify the figures and give it a very aristocratic.

Fish and Rosalie Featured posed elegantly on that fund balustrades, moldings, archivolts and vases,
an assumption that, without thinking, they compelled to bring his good looks and even his way
to the majesty of the scene.

This fish was the right man could be seen, excellent employee model called high because it's up
large portion of alms in the division made by the State; man in his person and had such style
symbolized the sovereignty of the government and the venerable Fillers administration. Was extremely
courteous and highly cultured, pointless conversation and entertaining, able to make on any subject,
strange to go to his understanding clerical, paradoxical observation. He had spent his entire
life to retortero of politicians, neat and had knowledge of contemporary history, which was
composed of lips endless anecdotes. He had the scholarship of political jokes and driving parliamentary
phrases flow with amazing ease. Under this foliage hid a arid unbelief, atheism and faith principles
of fait accompli, infirmity very common in those who have raised the chests of Spanish politics,
governed by the case. Tanned man inside and out, incapable of enthusiasm for anything, his
face revealed Fish such repose, strangely enough, that of the saints who enjoy the bliss eternal.
Yes, the face of Pez said: "I have come to the fullness of time comfortable. I in my heart. " It
was the face that has been proposed not to get upset by anything or take things very seriously, which
is the same as solving the great problem of life. For him, the administration was a cover of barren
formulas created to cover the practical system of personal favor whose key is in the bribery
and recommendations.

Nobody knew serving so friends effectiveness as a fish, whence came the good man's opinion.
Please anyone as he knew to all, and even among the revolutionaries had many devotees.

His character went without hindrance to friendly face, without wrinkles, admirably preserved, as
some English faces weathered by the outdoors and exercise. Were fifty years that seemed a little
over forty, fifty decorated with gold whiskers and dark mustache with a slight mixture of
silver, clean, bright, declaring in its brightness are devoted a good little while on the toilet.
His eyes were Spanish net of such serenity and sweetness, they remembered those who knew Murillo
painting playing San Jose. If fish do not shave the chin and instead of frock coat and carried
a rod, would be the living image of the holy Patriarch as we have conveyed the painters. Those
eyes said anyone who watched: "I am the expression of the Spain asleep, beatific, which has to
be toy of events and so nothing gets to let her eat in peace, that does not work, hopes and
lives of all present the illusion of looking at the sky, with a blossoming
rod in his hand, which is submitted to all who want to send, wherever
it comes, and professes socialism meek that does not understand ideas,
or action, or anything that is not dreaming and digesting.

"

This gentleman very nearly dressed as a dandy. He gave joy to see their extraordinary cleanliness.
His clothes had the virtue of not ajarse or powder room and never fell over the body and paint.
Morning and evening, dressed fish in the same way, closed with cloth coat, pants that seemed released
the same day and glittering hat, without this dedication seemed concerned or reveal effort or discomfort.
As in the great stylists too seems natural lime easy correction it was like a well-learned carelessly.
Carried everywhere packaging office, and believe that coat, pants and hat were an integral part of
the office same, the Directorate of Administration, as they were
in a different order flyers, letterhead, the portrait of the Queen,
the velvet-lined chairs and bundles tied with red ribbons.

When he spoke, he heard with pleasure, and he also liked to hear, because it ran with eyes the
faces of his listeners to surprise the effect that they produced. His language had adapted to the
political style created between us by the press and the platform.

Nourished one wit at source of amplification, failed to express any
concept under fair and accurate, but that was always in triplicate.

Sample Va.

THIERS .--=( without looking away from his work.) = What general banishment?

FISH .-- To the extent that things have come, Don Francisco, is impossible, it is difficult
is very risky to venture any opinion.

The revolution of which we both laughed, that we both laughed, that
both we scoffed, going forward, undermines, is styling his way and
the only thing we want, the only thing we ask is that it is declared
real incompatibility, real struggle, real war to the death between
the same revolution and institutions, between new ideas and the Throne,
including the necessary reforms and the person of His Majesty.

XIII

Fish and Rosalie, as I said, went out to walk around the terrace. The Rubens Nymph, fleshy and round,
and the spiritual San Jose, in a frock coat and no rod of lilies, is sublimated on architectural
background that white stone that seems rude ivory. She drew the line its elegant gown by the
clean tiles together with asphalt, and he, with his left hand in your pocket, retrieved the
edge of his coat, triggering slightly to the right, holding a cane in half. Sometimes the noise
of the court attracted the attention of both and encroached upon the balustrade. It was the
car of the Infanta, who went for a walk, or the Minister of State who entered. Deteníanse at times
in front of the windows of the room Dona Tula, because from within familiar people greeted them
with expressive hands moving. And stopped to talk with Dona Antonia, the wardrobe, which drew
the blinds and watering their pots, and they joined a distinguished person in the neighborhood, Madame
Secretary del Rey, Sister Butler second, the inspector general with
his daughter, and walked together talking frivolously.

When they were entirely alone, the worthy officer used to rely Rosalia its domestic troubles, which
had lately come to disturb the happy serenity of his character.

Oh! The big fish was not happy in their married life. Ms. Fish, by name Carolina, raw of Lantiguas
(though wrongly stated in another story coming down from lush Pipaón tree), was delivered to devotion.
Which was once the same sweetness, He had become surly and intractable. All the angry and was always
quarreling. With so much fanfare and that moral perfection of religious mania, you could not
endure their features possessed of genius, taxation, inquisitorial or less his harsh censure of
the actions others. Spent months without her and her husband to change a single word. It was
the home and a constant challenge for the club and Brawls based on any nonsense. "If the battle
was only between her and me, - said fish - take him with patience - but little heat time here
involved with our children. " The poor girls are showing keen to follow his mother that way
of salvation ... Naturally, they were young and liked going to the theater and attend the
society. What scandals, suffocating, what whining by This incompatibility of worldly comfort
and religious duties! Not a day passed without there was some hubbub and syncope, which was necessary
to call the doctor and bring these and other drugs ... Fish tried to compromise, agree wills, but
could not nothing. Ultimately, it always sides with the poor girls, because she was mortified
see them praying over the bill and doing stupid penance. If they were very Christian and Catholic,
what drove the saints and martyrs make them point blank? For his part, D. Manuel religious
brake conceived it indispensable for the maintenance of society and order. Religion had always defended
and it seemed very well that governments protect her, chasing her detractors. Came to admit, as
indispensable in the scheme politician of his time, the hypocrisy
of the state, but private prudery will burst.

The most serious of all was the struggle Carolina with their sons. Little could not escape maternal custody
yet, and I was all day in church with her book in hand. But Joaquin, who was already twenty years
old, lawyer, philosopher, economist, writer, magazine, historian, poet, Theogonist, Athens, how could
submit to confession and communion every Sunday? Federico was also very early and made the Majabarata
articulejos. Big thunder burst when either said something that her mother seemed sacrilege.
Christ that was assembled! One day, eating, Carolina pulled the tablecloth, broken dishes, spilled
the contents of them and salt and wine, and shut himself in his room, where she cried for
three hours. A poor things Rosa and Josefa until last fall had dressed
in short, were forced to confess every month.

Innocents, what sins could have if you did not even have a boyfriend?

The worst thing was that the lady cavalier Pez missed a guilt of irreligion of children. Yes,
he was an atheist masked, a herejote, a rationalist, it was content to hear Mass. only on Sundays,
almost from the door, talking politics with D. Cucurbits Francisco. Believed to genuflect when
rising, kneeling and scrawl on the tissue chest and forehead the sign of the cross, was sufficient.
For that it was better to be Protestant. In all the time who had married had not been approached
even once the court of penance. His devotion had been purely decorative, like carrying a hatchet
procession and sit on the banks of choice when it consecrated a bishop ... Finally, with this nonsense
of his wife, was the poor fish, not water, but stifled and bored. Who knew he had gone to Carolina
in the scouring of mysticism, and it was not work Lantigua Serafinita her cousin, who enjoyed
the view of saint. Speaking in silver, a premium was a calamity. In the church could be seen daily
at six o'clock and Serafinita Carolina, and there were dispatched to their liking. At home, Mrs. Fish,
sometimes changing the style threatening by comparison, for model put their children under Luisito
Sudre, the Telleria, he was a saint in milk, and already existed in their pink meat lashes.
The poor fish will consistently said that looking into the mirror D. Juan de Lantigua, the great
Catholic, great scholar and writer, so pious in theory and in practice, it did nothing contrary dogma,
nor their Christianity was of the formula, but sincere and real brave and straight, who not ashamed
to meet with the Church and to sit three hours on his knees beside the pious. It was not like
fish, the whole herd as moderate, which makes religion a ladder to climb to high places, it was
not like those men who get rich with assets Clergy and then preach Catholicism in Congress to
fool the fools, like those men leading to Christ on the lips and Lucifer in the heart, and believe
that giving some small rooms for the pope already been met. Farce, comedy, abomination!

Finally, D. Manuel had taken home abhorrence, and was on it at least possible. The peace did not
exist for him only in the office, which did nothing but smoke and receive friends, and home of one
of these, and Bringas, for example. Oh, how I envied household peace D. Francisco and the sweet
harmony between the characters of both spouse! He had been happy in his time, but not anymore.
Et in Arcadia ego. He was an outcast, a banished, and asked him please to have affection and
even cuddle him, to console of the troubled life she led at home.

Pez had these things to Rosalia with great vehemence, and she listened with keenest interest
and pity. Chatting, chatting, just felt the passing of the hours, and when the deep the shaded
patio out slow, mixed in a wet fresquecillo, when sunlight is dilated in the heights and the sky
began to nail the pale stars, D. Francisco, leaving the laborious hair, rubbing his eyes appeared,
and took part in the conversation.

XIV

From Augustine's cousin moved to Bordeaux, Rosalia not going to the theater but later to time,
occupying towns of sick friends or those who are bored of repetition too much of a dramatic
piece. I do not remember if it was the Monday or Tuesday when Milagros had the grace to stay home.
D. Francisco went to these meetings with his wife, but felt so tired lately that Rosalia had to
go alone with Paquito. In May, the proximity examinations required the young discreet not to
abandon their studies, and then accompanied her mother to the door of the house Telleria, turning
to his fatigue and his books. Fish was in charge of carrying Mrs. Bringas the marital home at noon
or one night, and by the way, that from the first piece of the Atocha Street Palace not very long,
rarely leaving D. Manuel to sing the jeremiad of domestic disturbance. Every night, pitiable
recounted episodes, and able to move in the storms of compassion
Rosalia chest.

When this arrived home, and Don Francisco, tired eyes and head for reading two or three newspapers
after the work of the cenotaph, had gone to bed and dozed coughing and snoring away the hours
with others. After a tour of the nursery to see if they have enough clothes or Isabelita nightmare,
chatted a bit with Rosalia her husband, while he was dropping one by one their finery, their
skirts and corset that machine where their meat, imprisoned, very visible ways demanded freedom.
Although much had happy to go to the gatherings in Miracles, routine flatter her husband inspirábale concepts
something contrary to the truth, but rather it can be forgiven in
favor of trials beautifully exact about things and people was observed
by her in the halls of Telleria.

"Son, if you do not return, I will not further. It annoys me the gathering of miracles which no
you can imagine ... That's not for me. You see some things ...! Of course I laughed more ...!
Milagros poor, as is so confident with me, everything I know tells me his troubles as if I pass it. It
is a suffocating, and I do not know how that woman has a soul to receive people without possessing
means nothing. Tonight has not fuss over four, four rubbish ... Shame! Imagine saying that
the freeloaders will not go to those houses that to give them dinner ... Never have I seen
a woman over her chest. Had given the seven and still did not know how to fix the buffet. Sent
to the cafe ... is to laugh ... and would not fiarle twenty pounds of pasta. I do not know
where he got that sweet ham was all cuts and leftovers, and that boar's head that smelled of
waste ... Finally, sucks ... He had good wines, yes ... Who knows where it's been taken out,
and who is sucker that gave ... Apuradísima was poor, but how he hid ...! Do not believe,
happy ever after, everyone smiling, and when I went to was transformed and looked into a sea captain
commanding the maneuver in case of shipwreck. (Indignándose.) Ah, that Badulaque, zanganote
that the Marquis is to blame. Is committed to the eyes, and the day when Creditors throw up,
no shirt will wear. Poor Milagros is very good, is a soul from God, but we must recognize that
it is spendthrift. If they put thousand dollars in hand, it spends in a day like a hundred
reals. I give advice, preach it, we trace a plan, a method, but quia!, is useless. Sometimes
it seems reformed, but goes, goes through a store, see any rag, and my money goodbye ... loses
his wits, gets the fever ... I I mean, when I buy: "I jumped you will screw your head ..." And if
you saw ...! Children pitiful. Tonight I entered the room Leopoldito, and I say it looks like
a screen of a shoe shop site, the wall full of doodles stuck with wafers, scenes fights, cartoons
from newspapers ... in short, indecentísimo, and everything on the other hand, all stirred,
much smell of drugstore potions, because the guy is a little bit off; noveluchas of a peseta
instead of textbooks, whips and sticks in such numbers that would have to put store it; the
unmade bed, because it had risen to six in the evening ... There walked limping with broken boots,
begging food and sweets and meats peering that brought to pounce on them like a hungry ... Gustavo
is another matter. What Formica and how well educated! There he was arguing with men and throwing
a lot of rumbling word ... It seems to me a stuffed fraquito Scropp your premature baby, and when
he speaks, as well as when he walks, he seems to have been wound with a key ... Mary is what
is being beautiful. The Marquise does not present even to avoid the age, and give pain to see
that fixie as developed as ... Do not think, has more front than your mom ... see da pain stuck
in there playing with dolls, tangling with the issues raised or copying French.