 We acusábamos to Nanar as Parsondes had accused
him before, but our voice, less authoritative than yours, did not touch the heart Art, or decided
to topple him Nanar, and more moderated put another King in Babylon. Nanar was more skeptical
and libertine Sardanapalus, Babylon and was worshiped under another god Milita and interest,
or as it were, to Venus. In vain my comrades and I preached corruption. The common people and nobility
we laughed in his face. We vengábamos to talk about the holy life of Parsondes and put in contrast
to the life they carried.

So things were going, when Art called me early morning early to his presence.

- There is hope, he said, that Parsondes still alive, but if dead,
it is necessary to avenge and punish her killer, which can not be
other than King Nanar.

- Your wisdom, sir, I said, is like the light,
which penetrates and find out.

Vences the crocodile in wisdom and insight lynx, but how did you know that can Parsondes still
living, and if dead, his murderer was Nanar? Do not have secured the wizards Parsondes is in heaven?
Have not found the astrologers in the blue vault star before never seen, and have not recognized that
star Parsondes soul?

- That is true, "replied the king, but I have come to find out, by disclosing some Nanar Babylonians
disgruntled gentlemen, it, furious that claimed Parsondes against him, seven years has sent
emissaries to all parties to secretly take him and taken to his palace, and there must be Parsondes,
or dead, or suffering horrible torments.

- Ah, sir! I cried to the point, prostrate at the feet of the King, it is just an evil revenge dreadful.
Allow me to be the instrument of your revenge, and save my dear teacher
the captivity in which, if not dead, is.

The King told me that to this end had called me, and immediately prepare
to leave with me the support due, and his strict orders to answer
me with your Nanar life of the holy man, or his release.

That same day, which was one of the hottest of summer, I went to Susa in a chariot Arab drawn by
four horses. A skilled driver was addressed, and two Ethiopian slaves also accompanied me in
the car, with air on one with an ostrich feather fan, and holding the other on rich ivory varal,
neatly styled, the wide umbrella silk. Four riders, all quivers, bows and arrows, clothing and
covered mesh head with individual bronze helmets, gleaming colors Niel, I followed and gave me greater
authority and decorum. Six scouts, mounted zebra striped and lightning-fast, went before me, to
advertise in the various populations.

Victuals and drink that we brought to supplement the shortcomings of the way, came on the backs
of twenty powerful elephants.

Not to be too wordy, not referring here minutely the events of my trip. Suffice to know that
the tenth day we discovered in the distance the huge walls of Babylon, Nebuchadnezzar work and
Nitocris. They were thirty yards in thickness, surrounding the city,
forming a zone twenty-two leagues of circumnavigation, and rose, at
the lowest hundred and twenty yards above the earth as much as the
bells of the cathedrals now. Crowned by a tuft of green walls