 You so good that I've collected in the trance most
difficult of my life, how can you sleep, how you eat, your existence without bitterness the thought
of your daughter missing? What do you know her now? Can not starve while you eat? Is not it easy
to be in a hospital, while you have your house where they lived parents ...?

Esteban contracted with a grim face listening to his brother.

- It is useless to you try, Gabriel. Nothing will get. Do you have denied something? I'm not
willing everything for my brother? But I do not talk about that, I have caused much damage
has broken my life: I do not know how I am not dead. Have you thought through what it means to
be the family of the Moon during centuries the mirror of the cathedral, the respect of even
the bishops themselves, and suddenly be one in the past, exposed to the laughter of all, being
able to look at him with compassion the last altar boy? What I have suffered! The times I've cried
with anger, alone in this room, after hearing what was whispered behind my back! And then -
he said quietly, as if the pain tarnish his voice - that unhappy martyr who died of shame,
poor woman, who left the world for not seeing my pain or suffer the scorn of others ...! What
I want to forget this ...? Also, Gabriel, I do not know to express my feelings as well as you.
But the honor ... is the honor. It is in this house I live without shame, sleep at night without
fear of seeing in the dark eyes of our father asking me for what remains a lost woman under
the same roof that conquered the moon with centuries service to the church of God, is to prevent
people laugh in our family .... That say in good time, "Those Luna, which is unfortunate ', but
do not say that the Moon never are a lack of family shame. For our love, brother, let me: do
not talk over this. These evil doctrines have poisoned your soul, not only have ceased to
believe in God but no longer believe in the honor.

- And what is
that? - Gabriel said, angered -.

You yourself do not know. "The honor is the honor." However, children are children. Tu, worries
man, do not stop to consider what are these beings, then our very existence. Your religion
does to children fruit of God, and yet think better and more perfect when repeléis and maldecís
these gifts from heaven just cause you annoyance.