 In exercising its functions as convenient,
it needs to be in constant communication with his own body and the around him, taking sensible
intuition of corporate relations, being advised by pain of any disorder that occurs in your body,
and guided by the sense of pleasure, as by an instinct that guided and tempered by reason,
I can tell helpful or necessary. When the soul is not attached to the body, there is no reason to
have any of these diseases need to target not having them in their actions: and as this reason
militaria with respect to all pure spirits, you can guess the cause of the difference that
should exist between the state of our soul in this life, and spiritual beings not attached to any
body.

[242.] This argument, taken from the end of things can not be regarded as a test; has no more
value than a guess, because not knowing how far the soul separated and pure spirits, they may be
in relationships with some bodies, also ignored if these conditions might necessarily be so
sensitive or useful for purposes which are outside our reach. Moreover, assuming that no separate
soul or pure spirits, no they had to do with any body, we could not say with complete security
sensitive conditions that they were useless, on the contrary, as we can achieve, it seems
to strip the soul of his imagination and feelings, is to take two beautiful powers that help them
over their understanding, is a powerful mobile many of their actions.

We have some difficulty to form the idea of ??pain or pleasure, but
by mediating conditions of feeling.

In the will of the purely intellectual, wanting to conceive or not to want: most simple acts
of relationship, we do not mean pleasant or unpleasant affection. Many times we want a thing
happens, and yet experience great distress in it: and conversely, happens very often that we
feel a pleasure in what you do not want. After wanting and not wanting their own, and while
in this life, do not involve pleasure or displeasure, are independent of these conditions, and
may be in opposition with them.

[243.] It may be noted that this discrepancy comes from the sensitive powers are in disagreement
with the intellectuals, that, albeit very true, is not opposed to it we are saying. Whenever
it is clear that the will of the intellectual order, when in opposition to the sensitive conditions,
it involves pleasure or displeasure destroyed; triumphs is true, in virtue of their free will,
but their triumph is like that of an owner who must to seek compliance with stringent requirements,
experience disgust, at the same time manages the execution of their mandates. Who knows then,
if you will, even after this life, walk accompanied by conditions similar to those which now
feels, rather than purified of the crude to mix them, the body that adds to the soul? There
seems to be no contradiction inherent in it, and if the philosophical issues could be resolved
by feeling, I would guess that this beautiful set of faculties we call heart does not fall
into the pit, but flies with the immortal soul to the regions.

[244.] Concerning to the imagination, that mysterious power, than to represent over the real
world has an inexhaustible fertility create new ones, deploying in the eyes rich and resplendent
soul scenarios, does not appear that a soul could be separated smirch the body. The ineffable harmonies
that we must assume in nature, why could not be perceived in a sensitive manner? Beware of venturing
on arcane propositions unknown to us, but also beware of the draw boundaries to the Almighty,
calling impossible that the sight of a sound philosophy, is in the order of possibility.

CHAPTER XXXII.

POSSIBILITY OF PENETRATION OF THE CORPS.

[245.] The more you meditate on the corporeal world, but the contingency is found in many of
their relations, and therefore the need to resort to a cause greater than been established.
Even the properties that seem more absolute, cease to be when are subjected to the test of reason.
What could be more necessary than the impenetrability? And But from the moment it looks severely,
it is reduced to a fact experience, which is not based on the intimate
nature of the objects, and that therefore can exist or cease to exist,
without contradiction.

[246.] The impenetrability, is that property of bodies, which can not be together in one place.
For all who do not make a pure reality independent space of bodies, this definition means nothing:
for if the place as pure space, is nothing to speak of a spot, with
abstraction of the body, is talking about nothing.

Then impenetrability can not be anything but a certain relationship, or of bodies or of ideas.

[247.] First order to distinguish between the real and the purely ideal. Impenetrability can
be considered two species, physics and geometry. Physics, is what we see in nature; the geometry
is what is in our ideas. Two metal balloons can not be in one place, here is the physical impenetrability.
The ideas of two balloons we offer two extensions that are mutually exclusive in the sensible
representation behold impenetrability geometric. When we imagine that the two balloons will
match perfectly, and there are not two, but one, when we imagine that a balloon occupies part
of another, is a new figure, Either one is considered as a portion of the other, and therefore
is contained in his idea, so is the case in which the child is placed inside the larger. In both
cases considers the interpenetrating balloons in whole or in part, but this penetration is
no more than the designation of certain parts in the one, considered as a pure space, in which
Place the other, also considered as a pure space. No geometric impenetrability exists only
when the two objects are supposed to separate, and only insofar as they are separated; in which
case the impenetrability is absolutely necessary, because the penetration equate to confused to what
is supposed to separate, that is, they affirm the separation and non-separation, which is contradictory. Then
the geometric impenetrability is no evidence in favor of the impenetrability physical, because
that exists in the single case of this budget, ie that the required under penalty of contradictions.
It is clear that the same would be in the reality for if we assume two separate bodies, they can
not empathize while they are separated, without crashing into a manifest contradiction. At this
point, the ideal order teaches us nothing on the real.

[248.] Rapport can exist in reality? A metal globe, for example, could come within a metal
globe, as we enter into one another, two geometric balloons? clear is that it is not the regular
order, which contradicts such assumptions, but the very essence of things. In this case, stated
that there is no contradiction in penetrable bodies do, and that
analysis of this matter shows that the impenetrability bodies has
nothing essential.

We have seen that the idea of ??place as pure space, is an abstraction, then it is an assumption
entirely imaginary, one in which every body to give a certain extent, to fill some space, so that
I can not but fill, and will not be possible to one while to admit other in one place. The
situation of the bodies, in general, is the set of their relations, the extension of each individual
body is but a set of relations of its parts together, to reach or
to unextended points, or an infinite smallness, he will be approached
by an infinite division.

The set of relations or indivisible beings is what we call infinitesimal extension and space,
and everything is understood in the vast field that offers us the representation sensitive. Who
told us that these relationships are not variables? Is our experience is perhaps limit the
nature of things? Obviously not. The universe has not been traced on our experience, but our experience
has emanated from him, saying there is no nor can it be anything but what it testifies, is to
make our self the kind of universe is to assert that its laws are rooted in us and are emanations
of our being: pride imperceptible atom fool for that which is presented for a few moments in
the vast theater nature and then disappears foolish pride, for that spirit in spite of the grandeur
capacity, feels powerless to evade these laws, to these phenomena,
according the monstrous assumption, should be the work himself.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

A TRIUMPH OF RELIGION IN THE FIELD OF PHILOSOPHY.

[249.] From the analysis I just made in the preceding chapters, is that objects extensive two things:
variety and continuity: the first is absolutely necessary if there be extension: various parties in
this fall, and difference can not be identical without manifest contradiction, continuity posters
displayed in the sensitive, is not essential to extended things, because there is only the
result of a set of relations, inseparable in the current order of sensitivity, but not absolutely
necessary in the order of reality. Transcendental philosophy, rising above the sensible representations,
leaving the phenomena and into the contemplation of things themselves, not discover in any part
the need for such relationships, and is forced to consider them as simple facts that could cease
to be, without any contradiction.

Thus the correspondence is saved phenomenon of reality, and harmonizes the internal with the external
world, but do not move to this all the subjective conditions of that so, than necessary for our representations,
it is also in itself and absolute necessity.

[250.] Having reached this point of transcendental philosophy, the spirit is as set a high peak,
from which to discover new worlds, and grateful to say, and comforting
the experience, between these worlds is discovered a new proof for
the divinity of the Catholic religion, and received a very salutary
lesson for not surrendering to the ravings a senseless philosophy,
which believes contradictions spot wherever you are offered August
shades.

[251.] There is in the Catholic religion a mystery that the Church celebrated with ceremonies
Augustus, and that the Christian worships with faith and love. The unbeliever has been the
holy tabernacle, and smiling with contempt, said: "Here is a monument of superstition, behold
the man loving the absurd. " There still is a work of theology, but philosophically, I could
do without responding to the objections of unbelief, but it seems very timely occasion to Drop difficulties
raised by the superficiality and lightness that I can not help seize it. The genre of the work
forces me to be brief on this topic, but the importance claims that the object does not overlook,
mostly when Catholic authors who have Solid writing philosophy have
also made some clarifications on this matter, in places have thought
more appropriate, and particularly when dealing with the extension.

[252.] The mystery of the Eucharist is a supernatural, incomprehensible to the weak man inexplicable
in human words, that they admit the Catholics, that is recognized by the Church. So it is not
to point out a philosophical reason to clarify this arcane, any faithful will so far dared
to take his vanity: it is only whether the mystery is absurd itself, that is, inherently contradictory,
because if this were, the dogma would not be a truth but a mistake: God's omnipotence did not
extend to the absurd. The question is whether the fact, however to be outside the laws of nature,
is inherently possible, because in that case the question leaves the field of philosophy and enters
the criticism: the unbeliever, if he admits the existence of God,
must accept his omnipotence, and then we should not argue about whether
God can not do this miracle, but only if it has.

[253.] Difficulties may object to the August mystery of the Eucharist reduce to the following:
a body is without the conditions they are subjected to other bodies, does not make any sense
impressions we receive from others, and order, is at the same moment
in many places.

To release these objections dutifully should be fixed ideas.

[254.] The doctrines expounded in the theory of sensitivity in this volume are impressive of
how falsely stated that the mystery of the Eucharist is impossible. Under the sacred species
there is a body that does not affect our senses, here are a miracle, but not an impossibility.
He said that there is no necessary relation between bodies and our sensitivity, the link we are now
experiencing can not be explained by any intrinsic property of the mind and body, so it is
essential to have recourse to a higher cause freely established such relations. The same cause
may suspend, then this point of view, the question is reduced to the following: can the omnipotence
God make us a body not to produce the phenomena of sensitivity, suspended the laws God has
set free? The question presented thus is not susceptible of two solutions:
it is necessary to resolve or confirm or deny the omnipotence.

[255.] Those who intend to convince our absurd dogma must prove the
following.

1.

No. That passive sensibility, is as essential to the bodies, not to be missed without missing
the principle of contradiction.

2. º The relationships of our bodies, with objects, are inherently
immutable.

3. º That the transmission of impressions of the organ to the sensory
faculties of the soul, is also essential and can not fail in any course.

If

you do not give true propositions above, fall all the difficulties merge into the phenomena of sensitivity.
With only miss one of these three propositions, all problems have
solution: it is evident that the phenomena of sensitivity be altered
in three ways:

1. ª The absence of the necessary body to be subjected
to sensitivity.

2. ª The interruption of normal relations between our organs and body.

3. ª The lack of transmission of impressions from the organs to the sensory faculties.

Ie that it is enough that one of the first three propositions is false,
for the unbeliever can not take a step.

[256.] Who undertook the test three propositions, not only could be sure of not achieving its purpose,
but just try, manifestaria has not thought about the phenomena of sensitivity on these matters
and has more philosophy, the notions the vulgar. No need to be philosopher enough to have
acquired a slight philosophical instruction, to know that such an undertaking is complete
ignorance of the history of philosophy. Since I do not need to stress this point because I have
long since aired these issues, the two books that compose the present
volume.

[257.] The above solution could be enough to dispel the difficulty successfully based on the
particular way in which a body is not the extent to which conditions we subjected the others,
because from the moment that the correspondence is suspended of a body with our senses, as these are
the only channel that tells us what passing on the outside, we can not verify that any absurd thing
that we have no experience. To receive the extension, we need to
feel, then we can not say anything concerning the extension of an
object not feel.

But although this response could stop the course of the objections, do not just want to it.

[258.] What is the extension? in reality is a set of relations of men entering in the composition
of extension. These relationships are not inherently necessary, as I said, then God can alter
them. It follows from this that the question is to stop the same point as above: can the divine
power to suspend, or alter, or remove the However, relationships are not required intrinsic need?
is clearly yes. The difficulty therefore is what has been, but what it is: once we are off the field
of philosophy in the field of facts, or is in the examination of the motives of credibility.

[259.]
The other argument, on a body found at the same moment in many places, although apparently stronger,
the fund is reduced to the same as above. Being in a as we understand it now, it is found with the
extension itself, in the ordinary way, and with ordinary relations also with respect to the extension
of other bodies. If is a body with the extension subject to other conditions, without relation
to ordinary the extension of the other, missing the event that we do lies the impossibility of being
a body at the same moment in many places, after having proved that God's omnipotence can alter
or even remove these relationships, there is no contradiction in
him missing that they ought to be. And I do not mean that to happen
in schools distinctions expressed, is always perfectly understood,
the whole truth, the whole philosophical delicacy found on them, or
that they are accompanied by all the analytical examination that they
were susceptible; dispense now the merit of men, and look only at
the bottom of things, but the would involve minor philosophical intelligence
in which employed, the more admirable us that August is religion that
inspires its advocates fruitful thoughts which coming centuries can
be developed