 Not only was there .-- You know Marica, Marica I
told him that I am sorry to bring the priest and the girl in the calash? - Why do you weigh? - Because
yes ... because man is not made Tovia these trades, you know you? - Ave Maria, what donkey
you, Lico! Stand back! Are not you ashamed? - Mia, Marica, you have not ran the world like
me. I have chaired by León, Palencia, Salamanca and Extremadura ground up ... The priests are
talking to pardon men like everyone else, and there are cases where women no repentance or priests
or brothers, or the verb became ...

These words were those that promoted the din. Neither the ushers with their voices, nor the
president could appease the bell sometime. Finally, one managed to be heard. Threatened to leave the
premises immediately, and this was enough to restore silence.

Then he turned against the witness.

- Warn the witness that if he has chaired by all those sites that says now is not going on track. Refrain
from rude words and stating the simple truth.

After the driver said the lad. His statement did not matter. Then went on some pious of rock that
stated in vague terms that they had observed some privacy unusual among Obdulia and his confessor,
but never had thought ill of her. Also deposed Fr Narciso. It was a model statement of hypocrisy
and wickedness. Using hyperbolic praise of virtue and talent of his partner, he knew, however,
to plunge this dagger handle. His reluctance insidious, stress and sadness that guard apologized
faults priests, and the last words to excite the benevolence of the
court, deep impression on the audience.

Seemed to justify his companion but through of her accent and her facial expression read it clear
that he condemned.

All eyes turned to the defendant. Fr Gil was like three months ago, when entered Peñascosa prison.
With the closure had won his face still white. Instead of fatigue and melancholy reflected
in recent times, we watched now cheerful serenity, a firm that had baffled all those attending
the trial. It seemed that those discussions were not with him, they were not his honor and
freedom over mat. The prevailing view in the competition, which had echoed and the press Lancia
liberal, was that this priest was a cynic, with little or no shame. No needed to be very lynx
to see what had attracted the antipathy of the court, especially President, who had already
made clear on several occasions. As he always did declaring a witness, the defendant now contemplated
P. Narcissus in the eye, with steady gaze and calm.

The young priest spoke with his eyes on the ground, and everyone praised his modesty and moderation
of his words.

Then went through the door of the witnesses, Don Martin de las Casas. After your name, age, status,
profession, etc., the president asked

- Have you been ever prosecuted?

D. Martin, who was quite upset, because it was primarily a man of action, as we know, not right,
"replied hesitating:

- I do not remember.

- Man, do not you remember! Well, this is rarely forgotten.

The presidential statement aroused great joy in the competition. The
invalid gritted teeth.

Would have the other shoulder to strike a blow that old. This observing his irritation, interrupted
several times as stated, guiding you through some buzz questions that followed exhilarating
the audience.

The fierce chief of Peñascosa stored in a few moments so much anger that nothing was proposed
less than spitting in the face and challenge the president as soon as saliesen the street. However, this
powerful man, worthy of living in the Iron Age, stumbled upon it by the Later in the casino,
and instead of inferred grievance, he took off his hat with great reverence. And there is
nothing to discourage the heroes as well as the prison cell.

Immediately
called D. Peregrin Casanova, which, contrary to what had happened
his friend, came majestically into the room, snorting and rolling
like a steam dock to dock. In essence, the former acting governor
of Tarragona went on to say that Peñascosa toilets had never been
his favorite saint. The characters withdrawn, meek silent, had not
been successful. Others may give it, not discussed, but in his long
career he held various administrative subordinates were about to commit,
and had always been characters similar to the defendant. When he ran
for the Peñascosa Obdulia species that had escaped to the toilet,
he had said: "Impossible, I'm sure that this man has been deceived