 As I read these paragraphs, which were already
family, his mind worked apart impulses of joy. Good friend Paul! And what in time came his
advice! ... He drew from Ibiza in the most opportune moment, when looked at open war with all those
rude people who wanted the death of a stranger. The captain was not mistaken. What was there, as
Robinson, who could not even enjoy the tranquility of solitude? ... Valls, timely as always, fought
the danger.

His life of hours earlier when he had not received the letter, it seemed absurd and ridiculous .. Now
it was another man. Smiling with pity and shame that crazy that the day before, leading the shotgun over
his shoulder, had taken the path of the mountain to look for a former inmate, challenging him to
savage fighting in the lonely forest. As if all life on earth was concentrated on the small
island and had to kill to be in it! ... As if had no life or civilization beyond the blue sheet
surrounding this piece of land, with primitive human group soul, petrified in the customs of
other ages! This was the last night of wild life. The next day, everything that happened it would
not be than an agglomeration of interesting memories, with whose story could entertain your friends
Borne.

Febrer cut suddenly thought, separating the eyes from the paper. Having found her eyes half of the
room in shadow and half in a reddish light that shook objects seemed to come from the Far trip
that drew his imagination. Still alive in the Pirate's Tower, still standing in the midst
of gloom, one populated by lonely Rumors of Nature, within a block of stone walls seemed to
sweat murky mystery.

Something had blown off the tower: a scream, a howl, as distinct from
the other night, more smothered farthest.

Jaime had the feeling that this cry came from very close, that someone threw perhaps hidden
in groups of tamarisk.

He focused his attention, and soon the cry rang again.

It was the same aucamiento of the other night, but deaf, softly, hoarse, as if they were afraid
of throwing the cry from spreading too much, putting his hands around his mouth to send with this
natural horn only to the tower.

After the first surprise, laughed quietly, shrugging his shoulders.
I did not think to move.

What do you care about these customs and primitive peasants these challenges? "Howl, good man;
scream until you get tired, I am deaf. "

And to distract his attention he read the letter, delighting in the taste of the long list of
creditors, many of whose names evoke visions angry or grotesque memories.

The howling continued playing at long intervals, and each time he cut husky shrillness silence, Febrer
shook with impatience and anger. "Christ! Was she going to pass and the night, kept awake
by this serenade threatening ?...»

He thought that perhaps the enemy, hiding in the bushes, he saw the cracks in the door lit
and this made him persist in their provocations. Blew out the candle and lay in bed, experiencing
a sense of comfort at being in the dark, back deep in the crisp softness of the mattress. I could
scream for hours until he lost that great voice. He did not want move. What do you care about
your insults?

... And laughed with a joy of animal welfare, the softness of his bed, while the other hoarse
hidden behind the bushes, gun prepared and watchful eye. What a disappointment for the enemy!
...

Febrer almost fell asleep lulled by the cries of threat. Had placed behind the door the same
roadblock last night.

While the screams had sounded confident that no danger threatened him. Suddenly he sat up,
repelling the drowsiness that precedes sleep. No longer sounding howls. What he had revealed the
mystery of silence was more ominous and disturbing that the shouts of hostility.

Moving his head, thought he saw between the confused sounds of breathing and cast night-a touch,
a slight creak of wood, something like the light weight of a cat climbing from step to step
on the scale of the tower, with long intervals of immobility.

Jaime looked for the gun and waited with him in the right hand. The weapon seemed to tremble
in his fingers. Beginning to feel the wrath of the strong man who reads his door the prowl for
a enemy.

The slow ascent is stopped, maybe in the middle of the scale, and after a long silence, he heard
the solo voice is a voice that sounded just for him.

Ferrer was the voice of: the recognized. Invited him to leave, he was called a coward, joining
this insult other injuries to the hated island where he was born.

With thoughtless impulse, Jaime rose from the bed, sounding loudly under the mattress collapse
of his knees. When standing in the dark, revolver in hand, again be sorry for this movement and
despise his challenger.

Why do case? Should go back to bed ... There was a long pause, as if the enemy, to hear crujimientos
the mattress, it is expected that the inhabitant of the tower was out of a time to another.
But it was some time, and the hoarse voice and offensive was played
again in the quiet night.

I called him coward again, invited to leave the Spaniard. "Go, son of ...

Febrer, to this insult, trembled, keeping the gun in his belt. His mother, his poor mother,
pale, sick, sweet as a saint, rising with the most infamous of insults in the mouth of that
inmate! ...

Instinctively went to the door, stumbling a few steps to the table and chairs piles. No, the
door will not ... A rectangle of light misty blue wall marked in
dark.

Jaime had just opened the window. The outer glow dimly lit contraction of face, a cold sneer,
desperate, cruel, giving him a strong resemblance to the Commander Don Priam and other navigators
of war and destruction, whose portraits are powdered in the palace de Mallorca.

He sat on the sill, throwing his legs out, and slowly began to descend, feeling Foot the cavities
of the wall to prevent loose stones rodasen, denouncing with noise.

At touchdown pulled the revolver from his belt, and crouching, almost
on their knees, one hand on the ground, began to follow the contour
of the base of the tower.

His feet became entangled in the roots of the tamarisk trees that
the wind had laid bare, and sank in sand and tangles of black snakes.

Each time a trip of these made him hesitate, forcing a rude jerk
to move forward, each time a rolling stone or bay, he stopped, holding
his breath.

Trembling, not fear, but anxiety and distress, with Hunter's concerns
that he fears to be late.

Ah, if he fell on the enemy, if he catches near the door, throwing its deadly insults softly!
...

Crawling like a beast, almost on the surface of the soil, came to
see the bottom of its scale, then the upper echelons, and finally
the black door in the middle of the cube tower appearing white under
the glare of the stars.

No! The enemy had fled.

The surprise made him sit up, uneasily eyeing the black and slick
undulating bush extending down the slope.

This test was short. A wriggle red, a fiery wave and brief, followed by a cloud and thunder,
came out of the tamarisk, a short distance him. Jaime believed he received a stone chest, a
hot beach had perhaps skip the noise of the detonation.

"It's nothing," he thought.

But at the same time saw himself on the floor, not knowing how, on his back.

"It's nothing," he thought again.

And turning instinctively turned away, leaving his chest on the ground, supported by one hand
and holding out the other, wielding the gun. He felt strong, repeated inside that it was nothing,
but the body refused to sudden clumsiness to obey his will. It seemed
low to the ground by a painful sympathy.

He saw the bushes shake as if moved by a dark beast, cautious and evil. There was the enemy. First
moved the head, then the bust, finally pulled the legs from Crackler the branches.

Febrer, with quick overview that accompanies drowning and dying in their last moments vision
in which the fugitives are concentrated memories of previous life, he thought of his youth, when he
threw the gun in the garden of Palma lying on the ground and pretending injured, as a test of
deceptive encounters. For the first time was to serve this whimsical caution.

He clearly saw the black bulk of the enemy motionless at the sight of his gun. Le became increasingly
cloudy, more hesitant, as if the night is obscured by time.

Advanced cautiously, also with a gun in hand, undoubtedly for the kill. Then pulled trigger
one, and again and again, believing that the weapon did not work,
without ever hearing their detonations, saying in desperation that
the enemy would fall upon him, deprived of defense.

No I saw him.

A white mist spread before his eyes, ringing in the ears ... But
when feel close to him believed his opponent, the fog broke, he returned
to see the light quiet and blue of the night, and a few steps, also
lying on the ground, a body that is stirring, that arched, scratching
the earth, throwing a harrowing snoring, a hiccup of death.

Jaime could not understand this miracle. Really it was he who had
thrown?

...

Wanted to get up, and his hands, when touching the ground, splashing
in a hot and dense clay.

He touched his chest and found it wet with something warm and dripping in thick rivulets subtle
and relentless. He tried to get the legs to knees, and legs would
not obey him.

Only then was convinced he was injured.

His eyes lost their vision clearing.

Double watched the tower, then triple, then whole blocks of stone curtain that stretched along
the coast sank offshore. Esparcióse a pungent taste in your mouth
and lips.

He thought he was drinking something hot and sticky, but drink it upside down, by a quirk
of the mechanism of his life, coming from the strange liquor your palate from the depths of her womb.
The black lump which turned between snoring a few feet from him every time agrandábase in their
contortions touched the ground.

It was already a apocalyptic beast, a monster of the night came to bow to the stars.

A dog barking and voices of people dissolve the phantasmagoria of solitude. From the shadows
emerged lights.

- Don Chaume! Don Chaume! ...

Who was this female voice? Where had he heard? ...

He saw black shapes that were moving, who bowed, carrying in her hands red stars. He saw a man
who was holding a smaller one, and hand the latter a white flash, maybe a knife, to pre-finish
the monster pataleante.

Saw nothing. Arms felt soft, thin skin and sweet heat, took her head. A voice, the same as
before, shaking and crying, rang in his ears:

- Don Chaume! Oh, don Chaume! ...

He sensed in his mouth a sweet touch, something that was stroking silky smooth, and gradually
was exaggerating his contact into a kiss frantic, desperate, angry pain.

The wounded man, before losing his sight, he smiled weakly to recognize with eyes eyes tearful
love and grief: Margalida eyes.

IV

Finding himself in a piece Febrer Can Mallorquí, lying on a bunk bed - the bed may Margalida
- was realizing what had happened shortly before.

Reached by foot to the farm, supported by Pep and his son, feeling behind a nice touch hands
seemed to tremble. Memories were vague, imprecise, surrounded a halo of white mist, something
like the confused memory of facts and words after a day of drunkenness.

He remembered that his face had looked with mortal laziness support Pep's shoulder, that forces
were abandoning him, as if life is to escape the hot and sticky blast that tickled over his chest
and back.

Also recalled that in his footsteps groans sounded deaf, broken words imploring the aid of
all the heavenly powers. And he, in the midst of his weakness, latent cerebral temples by the buzz
that accompanies the fading, made efforts to concentrate its energies on the legs, moving step
by step, with the fear of being stuck on the road. What an endless fall a Can Mallorquí! Had lasted
for hours, had lasted days: in its report that appeared dark running almost as long as all his previous
life.

When arms friends helped him get on the bed and the candlelight were stripping their clothes,
Febrer experienced a feeling of wellbeing and relaxation.

Do not get up of these blandishments! Stay on them forever! ...

Blood! ... The shocking red blood everywhere: on the jacket and shirt, they fell like rags at the
foot of the bed in the whiteness of the thick rigid sheets; in the bucket of water that was coloring
the Pep wet cloth to wash the breast of the wounded.

Each garment torn from his body scattered around a tiny rain. Undergarments despegábanse of the
flesh with a painful jerk. Candlelight, as flickering flame pulled
out of the shadows an eternal red note.

The wife cried in mourning. Margalida's mother, forgetting all prudence, coupled raised hands
and eyes with an expression of terror. "Holy Queen !...» Febrer to whom bed rest had restored
calm, we missed these exclamations. He felt good, why are so alarmed women? Margalida, silent,
eyes wide with terror, went back and forth, stirring clothes, opening chests, with precipitation
of fear, but not stunned to hear the angry shouts of his father.

Good Pep, frowning, with a greenish pallor in his dark complexion, driving the injured to the
same while giving orders. "Hylas! Many lint! ... Females Silence! Why so many cries and laments
?...» What to do his wife was to go in search of a stew containing Saved wonderful ointment
for prevention from the time of his courageous father, a Verro accustomed to the terrible wounds.

And
when the mother, afflicted with raging orders, wanted to join to
find Margalida The remedy, again claimed her husband's bedside. Should
hold the lord had set aside to examine and clean both the chest and
back. The peaceful Pep boy had seen more great events than that, and
understood something of wounds. Clearing blood stains with a cloth
wet, exposed two holes in the bust Don Jaime, a chest and another
in the back ... Well, the bullet had passed through his body; would
not be removed, and this led advance.

With its rustic hands, which
sought to infuse some feminine delicacy, struggled form a lint plugs,
be translated into those holes torn flesh and bloody, who followed
meekly throwing the red liquid. Margalida, frowning and shifting the
view to avoid meeting the eyes of the wounded, intervened, pushing
Pep. "Stop, Father!"; maybe she would know it better ... And James
thought he saw in the raw, sensitive, vibrant by the cruel scratch,
an impression of freshness, sweet calm it will sink plugs handled
by the fingers of the girl.

Jaime remained motionless, feeling in
the back and chest rags piled by the two women in their horror of
blood.

The optimism that had encouraged him to bend his legs and
fall next to the tower again reappear. Surely it was nothing: a small
wound, he felt better. Le annoyed, as if something unfortunate, sad
and silent gestures of those around him, and smiled to encourage them.
He tried to speak, but the first attempt it was a big word fatigue.

The
peasant stopped him with a gesture. "Quiet, Don Jaime was to remain
still!" The doctor was to arrive. His son was riding the best horse
in the house, to bring to San Jose.

And to see Don Jaime with his
eyes wide open, persisting in his smile bouncy, Pep continued talking
to entertain the wounded.

Was he sleeping with the heaviness of an
unshakable dream when he was awakened by voices and pulls his wife,
the cries of atlots running to the door wanting out. Outside the farmhouse,
on the side of the tower shots rang. Another attack on Mr., as that
two nights before! ... Pepet, to hear the last shots, he seemed happy.
Were Don Jaime knew the roar of his gun.

Pep had lit the lantern
she used to take the field, his wife took the candle, and everyone
ran up the hill to the tower, without thinking of the danger. The
first found Ferrer was, dying, his head dripping blood, howling and
writhing the same as a demon ... And had just grieve. May God welcome
you in his mercy! Pep had to go to blows with his son, mad and evil
like a monkey, which, when see the dying, his belt pulled a large
knife, intending to finish him off. Where would Pepet taken that weapon?
The boys are the devil