 He who wants to
Read more to find out.

And the sailor laughed talking about the poor peasants of the countryside, until a few years
before claiming in good faith that the Chuetas were covered with
grease and had tails, using the occasion to find only a child from
"the street" to undress and satisfy themselves as to whether it was
true the caudal appendage.

- What about my brother? - Continued Valls
-.

And what about my holy brother Benito, to read out loud and it seems that the images are going
to eat? ...

Everyone remembered the case of Don Benito Valls, and laughed outright, as the brother was first
to make fun of the event. The rich had been chueta owner to charge a credit a home and valuable
land in a village inside the island. By going to take possession of the new property, the more
prudent neighbors had given good advice. Owner was very to visit his ranch during the day, but
do spend the night at home? ... Ever! There was no report that a chueta had stayed in the village.
Don Benito did not heed this advice and stayed overnight on their property, but scarcely got
into bed fled the home. When the master grew tired of sleeping jumped out of bed. Not the faintest
glow coming through the slits. Believed to have slept twelve hours at least, but it was still
dark. Opened a window and bumped his head cruelly in the dark, tried to cross the threshold, and
could not. During your dream neighborhood had boarded up all the holes and exits, and had to save
chueta through the roof, between the laughter of people, celebrating his work. This was only
joking by way of warning, if he persisted in going against the customs of the people, wake up some night
in flames.

- Very great, but funny! - Said the captain -.

My brother! ... A good person! ... A saint ...

Everyone laughed at these words. Still the case with his brother, but with some coldness, and made
no secret of the grievances he had with him. Captain Valls was bohemian family, always at
sea or in distant lands, bringing a happy bachelor life.

Quite had to live. And his father's death, his brother had been with the business the house, taking
away many thousands of dollars.

- The same as between the old Christians! - Paul hastened to add -. In this matter of inheritance
no race or creed. Money knows no religion.

The endless persecution suffered by their ancestors irritated Valls. All circumstances were
good for running over people from "the street." When the farmers had grievances with the nobles
and down the foreign armed gangs against the citizens of Palma the conflict was resolved assaulting
each other Chuetas neighborhood, killing the not running away and stealing their stores. If
a Spaniard battalion received orders to march to Spain in case of war, soldiers mutinied, left
the headquarters and looted "the street".

When reactions happened in Spain to the revolutions, the realistic, to celebrate his triumph,
raided the chuetas silverware, seized their wealth and made bonfires furniture, throwing flames
until the crucifix ... Crucifixes old Jew, who necessarily had to be fake!

- And who are the "street"? - Shouted the captain -. It is already known: those with nose and
eyes like me. But there are many chuetas that are blunt and do not have anything common type.
In contrast, how many that are stale knights, nobility proud, have a face or that of Abraham
and Jacob? ...

There was a list of suspect names to meet the real Chuetas. But these Christians had their surnames
the old, and was the traditional fancy separating the to each other.

They had only been marked by popular hatred of the families descended of those who were beaten or
burned by the Inquisition. The famous list of names was undoubtedly taken from the file of the
Inquisition.

- A happiness to become a Christian! Grandparents charred by fire and grandchildren marked and
cursed for ever and ever ...

The captain lost his ironic tone, remembering the gruesome history of chuetas de Mallorca. It colored
his cheeks and his eyes shone with fires of hatred. To live in peace, had become all mass in
the fifteenth century. It was not a Jew on the island, but the Inquisition he needed to do something
to justify their existence, and there were suspicious fires of Judaism in the terminal, organized
events, as said by the chroniclers of the time, "with according to the most lucid held for the triumph
of the Faith in Madrid, Palermo and Lima. "

Chuetas Some were burned, others suffered flogging, others came only
to shame hood painted with devils and green candle in hand, but all
alike were confiscated property, and the Holy Tribunal was enriched.

Since then, those suspected of Judaism those who did not have a protector cleric, had to go
every Sunday to Mass at the Cathedral with their families, under the command and custody of a constable,
who was in herd I put a blanket so that no one be confused, and so
took them to the temple, between the whistles, insults and stones
of the devout populace.

This was a Sunday and next Sunday, and in this ordeal weekly and endless dying parents and
children became men, engendering new chuetas intended to insult the public.

A few families conspired to escape from this shameful slavery. They met in a garden wall immediately
and advised and directed a certain Rafael Valls, brave man and high
culture.

- Certainly do not know if it was a relative of mine - said
the captain -.

It has been more than two centuries since then! But if it was not, I want you to be ... I
am honored to have him as a grandfather much mine. Adelante!

Pablo Valls had collected in their home papers and books from the period of persecution and spoke
of them as an event that occurred days earlier.

- They embarked men, women and children in an English ship, but it turned a temporary back to
the coast of Mallorca, and the fugitives were arrested. This was ruling over Spain Charles
II the Bewitched. Wanting to escape from the island, where they were treated well, and more than
this, on a ship manned by Lutherans! ... Three years were in prison, and confiscation of their
goods produced one million dollars. Furthermore, the Holy Tribunal had other million uprooted
previous victims, and built a palace in Palma, the best and more
luxurious than had anywhere in the Inquisition.

The prisoners were given torment to confess what they wanted their judges, and March 7, 1691 began
the executions.

That event was as a historian not know of any in the world, the father Garau, Jesuit saint,
well of science theological, rector of the Seminary of Mount-Zion, where now stands the Institute,
author of Faith Triumphant, a literary monument that do not sell all the money in the world.
Here it is: accompanies me everywhere.

And took out a pocket Faith triumphant book bound in parchment, ancient and red printing, was
sporting a fierce affection.

Garau father Blessed! Charge encourage and strengthen the prisoners, had seen it all by, and
languages ??made the thousands and thousands of spectators who attended
the various peoples of the island to witness the celebration, solemn
Masses thirty assistance and eight prisoners for burning, the luxury
men's apparel and marshals, riders in spirited horses in front of
the procession, and "the mercy of the crowd, which broke out other
Sometimes cries of shame when they had to hang an outlaw, and remained
mute before these reprobates forgotten the Lord ... "

On that day showed, as the learned Jesuit, temple soul of those who believe in God and know
him. The priests marched valliantly shouting encouragement without tiring, the wretched inmates
were pale, listless and without forces. Well you saw how much aid was blue.

Those sentenced were taken at the foot of the castle of Bellver, for the final burn. The Marquis
of Leganés, governor of the Milanese, the way in Mallorca with his fleet, took pity youth and beauty
of a girl condemned to the flames and asked his forgiveness. The Court praised the Marquis Christian
sentiments, but would not accept his plea.

Garau's father was responsible for convincing Rafael Valls, "a man of some letters, but to which the
devil inspired an inordinate pride, urging him to curse those who
condemned him to death, and not wanting to reconcile with the Church.

" But, as I said the Jesuit, they might, Malo's work, just before the danger can not be compared
with the serenity of the priest urging the defendant.

- The Jesuit father was a hero away from the flames. Now you will see how evangelical piety recounts
the death of my grandfather.

He opened the book Valls pointed to a page, read slowly: "As was just smoke to him was a statue,
on reaching the flame, it was argued, covered and struggled as could,
until he could no more.

Lechonazo was fat as a breeding and burned in the interior; so even
when they arrived the flames, burning his flesh as a brand, and bursting
through, he dropped the entrails as Judas.

Medius Crepuit sunt omnia viscera ejus diffuse. "

This reading barbaric always produced effect.

The laughter ceased, the faces are darkened, and the captain walked
around Valls amber eyes, breathing satisfied, as if she had to achieve
a win, while the small volume returned to hide in your pocket.

Febrer once was among the listeners, the sailor said with grudging voice:

- You were also there.

That is, you do not. One of your grandparents, a Febrer, carried the flag green, most of the
Court as an ensign, and the ladies of the family were in a carriage
at the foot Castle to witness the burning.

James, bothered by the memory, shrugged his shoulders.

- Old Stuff! Who remembers what has already happened? Only a fool like you ... Go, Paul tell us
something about your travels ... your achievements of women.

The captain grumbled ... Old things! The soul of the Roqueta was still the same as those times.
Persisted hatred of religion and race. For some living apart, in a piece of land isolated by the
sea.

But soon recovered Valls good humor, and like all who have been shot by the world, could resist
the invitation to tell their past.

Febrer, another wanderer like himself, enjoyed listening. The two had lived a troubled existence
and cosmopolitan than the monotonous life of the islanders, the two had spent the money lavishly.
The only difference was that he managed to win just Valls with the active genius of his race, and now,
ten years older than James, had to do deal themselves with facility
his modest bachelor needs.

Still traded from time to time and made commissions for friends who wrote to him from distant
ports.

In its checkered history of ocean, Febrer discarded the story of famines and storms, and just
curious about the affairs in the major international ports, which they collect exotic vices and
females of all races. Valls, in his younger days, when Ships sent from his father, had met women
of all kinds and colors, finding mixed marinerescas that ended in orgies between shock waves
of whiskey and a knife.

- Paul, tell us about those affairs in Jaffa, where you wanted to kill the Moors.

And laughter threw Febrer listening, while the sailor was said that James was a good guy, worthy
of better luck, with no other defects to be a sausage stuck to something
family concerns.

When the carriage went on the road Febrer Valldemossa, ordering the
driver to the had brought there for him to return to Palma, drew back
the fedora flexible wearing at all times, crushed glass, with the
front wing rise and subsequent collapse on the neck.

- We are all
here!

Do you really expect me not? To me, I tell it all, and since there family party, it is complete.

Febrer
pretended not to understand. The carriage entered Valldemossa, stopping near de la Cartuja before
a house of modern construction.

When the two friends transposed garden gate, they saw coming towards them a man with white whiskers
leaning on a cane. It was Don Benito Valls. Febrer greeted with voice, slow and dull, repeatedly
cutting her words to suck the air. He spoke humbly, celebrating with great honor that ends
Febres was to accept his invitation.

- What about me? - Asked the captain evil grin -; "I am nobody ...? Are not you glad to see me?

Don
Benito was glad to see him. So said several times, but his eyes betrayed anxiety. Her brother
inspired some fear.

Which language !.... Best lived without seeing.

- We have come together - continued the ocean -. Knowing that James
had lunch here, I have invited myself, sure to give you a great joy.

These family reunions are lovely.

They entered the house, decorated with simplicity. The furniture was modern and vulgar. Some cards
and a horrible paintings depicting landscapes adorned Valldemossa
and Miramar walls.

Catherine, the daughter of Don Benito, hurried down the upper deck. Still wore powder of rice scattered
on the chest, revealing the haste with which he had given a final touch adornment of his person
to see get the carriage.

Jaime could contemplate carefully first. Was not wrong in their assessments. She was tall, matt-brown,
with black eyebrows, eyes same ink droplets and a slight hair lip
and temples.

His youthful slenderness offered to fill and sign, announcing greater expansion for the future,
as in all females of his race.

It looked sweet-natured and submissive, a good companion, unable to hindrances on the journey
of life together.

His downcast eyes and colored his face when facing Jaime.

In his attitude, in their eyes furtive, we noticed the respect, adoration
of you feel intimidated in the presence of unless considered superior.

The captain patted her niece with some freedom, adopting the same
old cheerful gesture with which he spoke to the lad of Palma, late
at night in a restaurant of Borne.

Ah, good girl! And how pretty she was! It seemed impossible that a family was ugly.

Don Benito went to all the dining room.

Lunch was waiting for a long time, in that ate home to ancient usage, twelve o'clock. They
sat at the table, and Febrer, which was next to the owner, he felt disturbed by wheezing,
by the great aspirations that interrupted his words.

In the silence that always surrounds the beginning of every meal, the whistle sounded painfully of diseased
lungs. The rich chueta lips moved, putting them in a circular as the mouth of a trumpet, and
breathed in the air with noise strenuous.

Like all patients, felt the need to talk, his words were endless, from babbling and long breaks
that left him with his chest heaving and eyes up, as if he were to
die asphyxiated.

An atmosphere of anxiety spread through the room. Febrer him with some alarm, as if you wait
to see him dying fall of his chair.

Captain's daughter and used to the spectacle, seemed indifferent.

- Is asthma, Don Jaime - laboriously said the patient - in Valldemossa
... I'm better ... In Palma was dying.

The daughter took the opportunity to leave a voice of timid nun, in
contrast to his burning eyes oriental

- Yes, Dad lives better here.

-
Here are quieter - said the captain - and make fewer sins.

Febrer thought about the anguish of spending their existence next to that broken bellows. Fortunately,
die soon.

A nuisance for some months, which did not affect its decision to enter family. Adelante!

The asthmatic, in his mania verbose, Jaime spoke of his descendants, of the illustrious Febrer the good
and noble knights of the island.

- I had the honor of being good
friends with his grandfather, Sir Horace.

Febrer stared ... Lie! In his master grandfather knew everyone on the island and all talk, but keeping
a gravity that commanded respect for the people without them away.

But for this to be your friend! ... Maybe he would have tried in connection with any loan Don
Horacio needed to sustain their fortunes in decline.

- I also knew
your father very much - continued Don Benito, encouraged by the silence
of Febrer -.

I worked for him when he left deputy. Those were different times! I was young, and had no
fortune I have now ... So among the 'red'.

Valls captain interrupted him, laughing. Now his brother was a conservative and a member of
all the guilds of Palma.

- Yes I am - the patient shouted, drowning
-.

I like order ... I like the old ... that send those who have to lose. What about religion? Ah,
religion ...! For she would die.

And he put his hand to his chest, breathing painfully, as if drowned enthusiasm. Nailed atop
his dull eyes, loving to respect the sacred institution of fear that had burned to their ancestors.

-
Pay no attention to Paul - went to retrieve the tooth, addressing Febrer -; you knows it well: a
bad head, a Republican, a man who could be rich and will reach Growing old without having
two pesetas.

- Why? Why you took them off? ...

With this abrupt interruption of the sea was quiet. Catalina made a gesture sad, as if afraid to
be reproduced Febrer noisy scenes he had witnessed many times when
discussing the two brothers.

Don Benito shrugged and spoke only to Jaime. His brother was crazy: a heart gold, but crazy,
hopelessly insane.

With their exalted ideas and rants on coffee was the main culprit of that decent people bear
some prevention ... to speak ill of ...

And the old accompanied
his truncated expressions with humble gestures, avoiding pronouncing
chueta word and name the famous "street."

The captain, his cheeks stained by the repentance of his aggressiveness, I wanted to forget the words
above, and ate voraciously with the head low.

The river niece of his good appetite. Whenever I ate with them admired by the ability your stomach.

-
But I know what it is hungry - the sailor said with some pride -. I have suffered hunger indeed,
hunger suggests that meat from peers.

And released by this recall in the full story of maritime adventure,
he spoke of the times youth, when he had been "added" on board a frigate
that went to the coast Pacific.

To strive to be a sailor, his father, the old Valls, author of the fortune of the house, had
embarked on a schooner of his own which brought sugar from Havana. That was not navigate. The
cook kept the best food, the captain did not dare give an order, see him as the son of the
owner. Never be a good sailor, hard and expert. With the tenacious energy of race, was unknown
to his father embarked on a frigate that was sailing for loading guano at the Chincha Islands,
manned by people of diverse peoples: British deserters Fleet, boaters of Valparaiso, Peruvian
Indians, the worst in each house, under the command of a Catalan stingy, more lavish in rebencazos
in the, hut.

The trip was regular, but around the corner, after passing the Strait of Magellan, came the
calm, and the frigate was still in the Atlantic about a month, sold out quickly the storeroom
of the food. The owner, a miser, had stocked the ship with scandalous parsimony, and the captain
in turn had eaten the food, appropriating a portion of the amount for the purchase.

- They gave us two biscuits a day, full of worms. When I received the first amused me carefully,
as a gentleman of good family, in taking away one by one those little creatures. But after the clean
leaving only a thin crust hosts, and I was dying hunger. Then ...

- Oh, man! - Protested Catalina, guessing what was going to say and repelling and fork plate with
a gesture of disgust.

- Then - continued the ocean, impassible - suppressed cleaning and
swallow me whole.

It is true that eating at night ... Many who had been, girl! At the end we only got one per day,
and when I arrived at Cadiz I had to be subjected many to stock, for my stomach to settle.

After lunch, Catherine and James went to the garden. The same Don Benito, with the air patriarch,
kind, ordered his daughter to accompany M. de Febrer to show variety of exotic rose bushes he had
planted. The two brothers remained in the room that served as office, watching the couple strolling
in the garden and ended up sitting in two cane chairs in the shade
of a tree.

Catherine replied to questions from his companion with
a Christian maiden shyness holy educated guessing the hidden words
in common with their gallantry.

This man came for her, and her father
was the first to accept this desire. Thing done! ... It was a Febrer,
and she would say "yes." He recalled his childhood in school, surrounded
poor girls who took advantage of every opportunity to annoy, from
envy to wealth and learned hatred from their parents. It was the chueta.
I could only get together with those of race, and even they were anxious
to ingratiate himself with the enemy, betraying each other, excluding
energy and cohesion for the common defense. At the time of departure,
they left chuetas before, an indication of the nuns, to avoid insults
and attacks by other students to be together in the street. Even the
servants who accompanied the girls undertook fights assuming the hatred
and concerns of its masters. Also in boys' schools Chuetas out before
fleeing from the slings and lashes of the Old Christians.

Valls's
daughter had suffered the torments of the traitor pinprick, scratch
hidden, the scissors stroke her hair, and then as a female, hatred
and contempt for their former companions had followed him in life,
its pleasures embittering rich young woman. Why how to be smart? ...
On field trips only greeted the friends of his father in the theater
visited his box looked rather than people from "the street". With
one of them would to marry, and had married his mother and grandmother.
Despair and mysticism of adolescence had been dragged into the monastic
life. His father was close to drowning penalty. But religion, religion
that I wished to give life! ... Don accepted Monji Benito of a convent
of Mallorca, where he could see his daughter every day. But no convent
wanted to open their doors for her. Superiors, tempted by fortune
father, who would eventually move to the community, showed themselves
compromisers and good, but alborotábanse monastic herds to the idea
of ??being in their midst of "the street" and not humble and resigned
to support the superiority of the other, but rich and arrogant.

When
pushed back into the world for this resistance did not know what to
think of their future and lived as a nurse with the father, not knowing
what would be his fate, turning chuetas young back who fluttered like
butterflies around it attracted millions of Don Benito, the noble
Febrer presented itself as a fairy tale prince, to make his wife.
What good is God! ... He looked at the immediate palace to the cathedral,
in the neighborhood of nobles by whose narrow streets and quiet blue
floor pass canons during sleeping hours in the afternoon, attracted
by the bell choir