 When Michael is calmed down nerves and found
himself alone in his room, he felt great remorse, had acted ungenerous, after all, the same
fault he had his uncle in the waste: to remember the sad face that embarrassed and I felt so sorry
and regret that Deep unreasonably offended him, he could not sleep all night.

The income that was left was enough to live with relative ease and even luxury hotels in Madrid.
He took over management of the houses and put order in their spending, trying not however,
that his uncle is not without certain pleasures without which the gentleman did not understand
existence. And continued to live happy and content in the best harmony.

Miguel's friendship with his old school and inn, Mendoza had been cooled a bit in recent years, rather
the effect of separation that had mediated because including any grounds for disappointment.
When they were in college or in the street they spoke tenderly and walked together if Michael
was not an urgent thing to do. Some sometimes in days of trouble, Mendoza used to stop by
his friend's house and ask about few dollars.

Moreover, no deviation sometimes months without seeing.

Shortly after finishing the race, Mendoza, every day was better looking and apply to harder to look
like one, wanted to make opposition to a formal spaces, vacancies on the Board of State. Resolved
before he came to talking to Miguel, who encouraged him and promised much take advantage of their
relationships to get what he wanted. Miguel frequented high society and was a friend of several
political figures, it was known in the halls and at the University Riverita the name, and was
generally beloved for his sympathetic figure, although meager, and its frank and funny treatment.
Mendoza made to end its pursuit of questions, and it was only medium, so that even getting the best,
very wary of taking number, which brought him very downcast and discouraged. However, when he
reached the second exercise, which consisted write locked in for twenty-four hours, a dissertation
on a topic chosen from three and then answer the objections that might make him two companions,
he thought saving; asked to please Michael, in whose talent he trusted very much, that it is written.
There need for them to avail themselves of a ruse. At the time it was contained, Rivera was there,
heard about the theme and ran to get into the University library, where in a few hours striving
to consult books and wit, wrote a long and scholarly discourse. The problem was that came
into the hands of Mendoza. To achieve this was to haunt the late At night the building of the
Councils, gave a shrill whistle, like a lover to warn his girlfriend, and soon cautiously
opened a window upstairs and saw a thread silk floating in the air, Miguel manuscript and
hastily tied the thread started dragging it up.

The next morning was full of anxiety to witness the exercise of his friend. This, that dissertation
was copied in large letters, the sign read with intonation and not a little device; the judges
were surprised so much erudition and pleasant style, he did not suspect existed. When the time
came, however, to answer objections, declined well, not knowing rather than referring to his speech,
struggled in vain to find some new argument for the thesis. Despite this and the median period of
questions, the court paid not common knowledge that he had shown, he adopted the exercises. Then
was when Michael came into play all his friends to get the minister to grant him one of the
seats, the largest in the Council, its partner hotel, it was one of the least worked on the
case. Finally, after many twists and turns, promises and anxieties, Mendoza was named high official
advisory body with twelve thousand pieces of salary, although was not very fat, had the job the advantage
of being fixed, and the capital, and very CONSCIOUS to befriend the heroes of politics and
administration, under whose aegis is as only you can make a fortune in Spain. The son of the surgeon
was, then, franchise, or what is the same, had secured its modus vivendi. The victory was celebrated
by the two friends with dinner and toasts were fervent in her and
swore eternal fidelity.

Shortly after this incident, another occurred in the life of Miguel that gave rise to changes important
in it. We have said that he had entered in good standing in society,
which is per man was entertaining and fun, and enjoyed all the privileges
that wealth and ingenuity usually granted in the capital