 To They
need oxen, and the fresh meat would be very helpful and inexpensive. For all offers proportion
those areas: promoting the raising of livestock, may abound over time in terms take some fruit
of their hides and meat, because there will be easy and cheaper this trade, the abundance and
excellent salt salt flats, and be of superior quality such meat to the fields of Montevideo and Buenos
Aires, so their salty pastures. This is another incentive, added to the background, a population
ready to make that useful port for our ships sailing to the South Sea in arrivals, as the immediacy
Black River and stock can be cooled as needed, to prosper in this way navigations, closing the door
to the English why have easy entry into this river, and consequently in the whole kingdom of
Peru, cutting off the progress they make, and can forward with the lights that we have taken these
important discoveries in the fishing the whale, and all this at greater length I have explained
to him that my Lord Vertiz the memorandum is dated October 13, to which I refer.

If our Spanish arrived to establish the trade with accessories that
are proposed in terms which the Crown to produce the same or greater
interest out of Portugal the island of Santa Catalina, by granting
temporary licenses to companies established to this end may be the
most effective and proportionate way to go recognizing the coast and
Strait, and advancing stocks.

Optional only the real power to grant temporary or permanent license to use of these fisheries, as seas
belonging to his dominions. Eyes open knowledge the great practical value of this trade, will attract
interest to their use.

This is the fruit that can take the crown, not by the interests that rotates Portugal, but by the survey
and those populations most advanced Parages south she cares about or interested. At that excels in
the most useful, and we show port insurance for the shelter of the boats, offering people, these
costs compénsesele the granting of any privilege or license to the fishery in the time it seems
regular, formal contractual obligation and mortgages. Unansele those graces which allows the real
protection and sovereignty, and thus, without squandering the royal purse, get the These wastes
to useful Rey domains, preparing a means to attract true knowledge many heathen souls occupy
in the propagation of the faith and usefulness of State and provide different benefits to navigation
and trade.

While the Magellan Strait and islands of Fire is important to us a true and accurate recognition by if
you allow ports that provide us passage to the South Sea, no be neglected the Gulf of San
Jorge, which is located at 45 degrees and minutes to look with the
indifference that so far.
