 Because I see no remedy for it,
answered. I have been the more affluent neighboring village Derlback, near Babylon; with the
help of my wife to the best curds of the empire, who liked to infinity to queen Astarte and
the famous minister Zadig. Speech delivered to both of hundred houses curd: I went one day to
Babylon to pay me, and I knew that night it had Zadig and queen disappeared. I ran to the house
of Mr. Zadig, whom I had never seen and found great Desterham sheriffs, with a role of the king
in his hand stole very orderly and calm throughout the house. I went down in a twinkling in
the kitchen of the Queen, some of scholarship gentlemen told me that had died, others were imprisoned,
and others said that he had escaped, but all estava answer that I can not pay my curds. We went
with my wife to the house of Mr. Orcan, who was one of my parishioners, he ask for his protection
in our grief, and given to my wife, and me not. It was my wife more white curds that were
the source of my misery, and do not even shine purple Tyro that encouraged having white color,
so he put it Orcan, and gave me his home. I wrote to my wife desperate letter, and responded
to the bearer: Yeah, yeah, I know who I writes, I have talked about it, they say that makes curds
excellent: I am bringing, and they are paid.

I wanted to go to court in my misery.

Quedábanme six ounces of gold was necessary to give two the legal expert I consulted, two to
the attorney who handled my case, and two to scribe the first judge. This done, had not yet
started my pleyto, and I had been more spent money than my curds and my wife were worth the bargain.
I returned to the people with the intention of selling my house for my wife to recover. Valia
is about sixty ounces of gold; but I Vian poor, and in haste to sell. The first to whom I
spoke gave me thirty the second twenty, and the third ten, and was going to take for this price,
according was blind. Wine At the time, a prince of Babylon to Hircania, ravaging the whole country
through which he passed, the qual ransacked my house, and then put fire. Having thus lost
money, wife and home, I retired to the country where you see me, trying to earn my living by
fishing. The fish do teasing me just as the men drew no, and I'm starving, and without you, dildo
August, was about to jump into the River.

No fisherman told his story without many pauses, and to every one was telling Zadig, robbed and out
of it: With what you know nothing of the fate of the Queen? No, sir, "replied the fisherman; I
know, is that neither the queen nor Zadig has paid me my curds that I have stolen my wife,
and I'm desperate. I hope, 'said Zadig, that you have not lost all your money. I've heard of
that Zadig, as an honest man and if he returns to Babylon, but what should I give you, but for
what you do to your wife, who is not honest, aconsejoos prevent you from doing errands to get back
to it. Take my advice, go to Babylon, where before I'll get to you because you are going to walk
and I am going to horse veos the illustrious Cador, tell that you have found his friend, and
wait for me at home: go in peace, that maybe you will not be provided unhappy.

Orosmades powerful, followed me to comfort you have earned this man: who you valdréis to give
me comfort? So said the fisherman giving half of all money brought from Arabia, and the fisherman
kissed the stunned and confused's Friend Cador plants, and we last name his guardian angel.

Zadig
news did not stop to ask, and shed tears.

What, sir, "said the fisherman, You are also unhappy to be beneficial? Hundred times more unhappy
than you, "replied Zadig. How may be, he said the good man, that is the one who gives more to
be pitied than to receive? Because your great misfortune, "replied Zadig, was the need, and
mine depends on the coraron. Would you Orcan stolen to your wife? 'said the fisherman. This
question he brought to mind Zadig all his adventures, and made him go through the list of all
their woes, starting with queen bitch until arrival at the house of the bandit Arboga. Ha,
'said the fisherman, Orcan is worthy of punishment, but these are usually men who are in Privanza
destination. Anyway, go to the house of Mr. Cador, and wait. Separáronse with this: the fisherman
it was giving thanks to his star, and constantly cursing Zadig yours.

CHAPTER XVIII.

The basilisk.

Zadig came to a beautiful meadow, where he saw a crowd of wives who were looking for caring
thing that had seemed lost. He approached one of them, and asked if I wanted that help them find
what they wanted to find. God forbid, said the Syria, what we we can touch only the women. Rare is
it, 'said Zadig: do me please tell me what it is that the women can only touch it? A basilisk,
"she said. A basilisk lady! Why what are you looking for a basilisk? For our lord and master Ogul,
whose palace are watching the banks of the river, and within this field, who are his most humble
slaves. Mr. Ogul is bad, and your doctor has prescribed a basilisk eat boiled in water roses,
and as is very rare animal, and that only the women are catching dexamethasone, has promised Mr. Ogul
to choose for his beloved wife to bring him a basilisk that well
dexádmele look, that you see how much I would lose if one of my colleagues
before I could Topara.

I leave this Zadig to Syria and to all others who seek their basilisk, and continued on his way
the prairie. On reaching the bank of a creek, he found another lady lying on lawns, not looking
for anything. It seemed majestic stature, although he had covered his face a veil. Head was tilted
to Anoy; exhaled from time to time deep sobs and held in his hand a wand with the qual was
esciibiendo letters in a fine sand between lawns and courage mediated. Zadig wanted to see
what he wrote: arrimóse, and saw a Z, then an A, and wondered: then read a D, and gave her heart
skip a beat, but never was both his astonishment, as the two rearward Quando read letters in his
name. Remained motionless for a while, finally breaking the silence, unsure, voice, said: "Generous
Lady, forgive to a hapless foreigner who dares to ask why anything strange encounter here the
name of Zadig, by thy divine hand writing? On hearing this voice and these words, lifted with trembling
hand the lady her veil, myth Zadig, uttered a cry of Temur, wonder and joy, and surrendering
to the various emotions that together embatian his soul fainted in arms. Was Astarte, was the
queen of Babylon, the same as Zadig idolized, and whose love his conscience accused him, those
whose fate had cost so many tears. He spent some time deprived of the use of their senses, and when
their eyes Cluver's eyes slowly Astarte opened again between faint, confused, loving, O immortal
powers! exclaimed, "Restitais me to my Astarte? What time, what site, around to see what state?
Hincóse knees before Astarte, bowing his fiente Baxo dust of your feet. Lift it up the Queen
of Babylon, and I feel it themselves on the banks of the stream, a thousand times enxugar eyes
always bathed in fresh tears. Twenty times ci knotted thread of reasons that blocked her moans; doeth
questions about anything that had gathered, and did not rise to that respond to new questions,
beginning to tell their misfortunes, and wanted to know those Zadig. Having finally both a
little calm the tumult of his breast, he said in brief Perhaps why Zadig was in this meadow. But as
I am, or respectable queen and unfortunate, in this deviant site, dressed in a slave and other
slaves who accompanied looking for a basilisk, for boiling, under a doctor's prescription, in
rose water?

While they are looking for their basilisk, I shall inform you, 'said the fair Astarte, all I
have suffered, and forgive the sky once you get to see you. You know that the king My husband
took it amiss that you were the kindest of all men, and perhaps for this reason took a night
to send you the determination to hang, and give me a tósigo, and also know that compassionate
heaven disposed to let me know my dwarf silent orders of his sublime Majesty. No sooner had I pointed
the faithful Cador to obey and depart, she dared to penetrate by a side door in my fourth at
midnight, I pulled out of the palace, and took me to temple of Orosmades, where I locked her
brother magician into a colossal statue which is based rests on the foundation of the temple,
and the head touches the roof. This was like buried as the magician who served me made sure
that I shall not want. At break of day, entered my quarto of His Majesty the chemist with a
potion of henbane, opium, hemlock, black hellebore, and anapelo, and another officer went to your
house with a blue silk cord; Nias found no to anyone. For more deceive the king, Cador him a false
complaint against two of us, pretending you wore you the way to India,
and mine in Memphis, and sent people in our trackers.

I knew the messengers who were looking fight, because it seldom had shown me face, unless it was
to you, before my husband and by his order. Chasing Ibanme by signs that they had given me, and found
the line of Egypt with other my height itself, and that perhaps was more beautiful. I was in
tears, and walked heedless, so that they did not doubt that she was the queen of Babylon,
and to Moabdar conduxéron. Wroth King violently by mistake, but after having covered more closely
to this woman, saw that it was very beautiful, and was comforted. Missouf was called, a name which,
according to later I am told, means the beautiful Egyptian, capricious, and it was indeed,
but were not in behind their gear to their cravings, while having to Moabdar liked him so
captivated who declared his lawful wife. Manifestóse then frankly its kind, giving unchecked
to all the extravagances of his imagination. Wished to stress the high magician, old and gout,
to which Bayle in his presence, and having refused this, he was haunted by death. In the Horse
I ordered a sweet cake, and since it was not represented baker, all was in vain: he had to make
the cake, and let him go because he was so toast. The office of the Horse was given to his
dwarf, and a page to him tax advice: ruled in this way to Babylon. Llorábame around the world,
and the king, until he had sent me hang and poison had been pretty good, I leave that his virtues
runners to shipwreck on his love of beautiful fanciful. The day of the sacred fire came to the
temple, and I saw him implore the gods for Missouf, prostrate before the statue where I was stuck.
Then raising voice, I said to him: "The Gods dismiss the pleas of a king became a tyrant, and
has wanted to take the life of a woman on trial for marrying a crazy woman. "put these words Moabdar
on such a confusion to which he was the head. In oracle I had pronounced and the tyranny of Missouf
had plenty to lose his reason, and with effect in a few days went crazy.

This madness, which was attributed to punishment from heaven, was the signal for rebellion: amotinóse
the people and took weapons, Babylon, where queen into a pier as long idleness, became theater
of a horrific civil war. They pulled me out of the hole of my statue; They put forward of a party,
and Cador was running to Memphis, to bring him to Babylon. News of such fatal New Prince of Hircania
came with his army to form third party in Chaldea and came to attack the king met him with
his blundering Egyptian. Moabdar died, pierced by a thousand cuts, and fell in the hands of the
victor Missouf. It was my misfortune that I also was caught by a band of guerrillas Hyrcanus, Condux
me into the presence of the prince, at the same time it took to Missouf. Surely ye shall know
that I had the satisfaction for more beautiful than the Egyptian, but shall not be less feeling
for what you say you I devoted to his harem, saying without beating about the bush, then to
conclude a military expedition to qual was scheduled to leave, would come to me. Imagine qual
was my grief: Broken links with Moabdar shook me, could be Zadig, and fell in the irons of a
barbarian. I replied with all the pride that my high large hierarchy inspired me and my affections,
having heard that all my life that people of my dignity of the heavens had endowed of such greatness,
with a word and a look of eyes mingled in the dust of the blue to quanta were reckless daring
to depart from a point in the most reverent obedience. Spoke as Queen, but I was treated like
a maid of pitcher: the Hyrcanus, without even deigning to answer, he said to his black eunuch
that I was swearing, but he seemed nice. Ordered him to me take care and give me the treatment to those
who were in his favor, that I became the colors, and were more worthy of his touch on the day
it seemed appropriate to honor them. Dixel would kill me, and I replied laughing that none
were killed by these things and was used to such niceties, and went as a xilguero dexándome cage.
What situation for the first reyiia of the universe, and more for a heart that was Zadig!

And
he knelt down to hear these reasons, watering with tears plants Astarte. Alzola this affectionately,
and went on to say: Viamed in the hands of a barbarian, and competition
with a crazy who was locked.

Contour Missouf his adventure in Egypt, and for painting that you did, by time, by the dromedary
in ye were mounted, and the other circumstances came to the attention of Zadig was who had fought
in their defense; and no doubt you were in Memphis, I determined to take refuge in this city.
Bella Missouf, I said to him, "you are much more comely than I, and looking for fun rather Hyrcanian
Prince: procuradme means of escape; reynaréis you alone, and you will make me happy, librándoos of
a rival. Missouf helped me to make my flight, and I departed secretly with an Egyptian slave.

Already
played with Saudi, when a robber stole my very name, called Arboga, the qual I sold to some merchants
that they brought me to this palace, where he lives, Mr. Ogul, which I bought without knowing
who I was. This is a glutton, who thinks only of binge well, and
believes that God has put the world to enjoy a bueu table.

He is so excessively fat, which every moment seems he is going to burst. Your doctor is with
him little influx Quando makes good digestion, but when they have high-handedly sends ahitera
and now has made believe that he had to heal with a basilisk boiled in rose water. Has promised
to give hand to the slave that traxere a basilisk, and you see me I leave they deserve the very
high honors, having never been less willing to bump the basilisk that since they have heaven wanted
to come back to see you.

Astarte and Zadig Dixéronse quanto then the most generous and passionate breasts could countered
inspire affection so long and so much love and so much misery, and geniuses that love led preside
reasons of both in the sphere of Venus.

He turned about a fifth of the women Ogul without having found anything.

Zadig was introduced to him, and said to him: the sky Descend the immortal Hygia to dilate
your years. I am a doctor; I've been having heard of your illness, and I am bringing a basilisk
in boiling water Rose, not because I aspire to marry you, I ask only the freedom of a young
slave Babylon, which I sold a few days ago, and I acquiesced to remain a slave in his place, if
I have the joy of healing the magnificent Mr. Ogul.

The proposal was accepted, and went to Babylon, Astarte in the company of Zadig's servant, promising
that he would ship out immediately a messenger to inform had quanto happened. No less than his
recognition were loving their vouchers, because, as written in the great book of Zenda, the two
most solemn times of life is the moment we meet again, and that we parted. Zadig to the Queen
wanted as much as he swore, and Zadig loved the queen more than what he said.

Zadig spoke in this way to Ogul, Lord, my basilisk not eat, that all virtue is you must enter
through the pores, I've put in a good swollen wineskin wind and covered with a fine leather,
it is necessary that such wineskin empujeis towards me in the air with all your strength, and
that I will throw it often, and with a few days and this Diet Exercicio will see the effectiveness
of my art. The first day it was to drown Ogul, and believed that was about to breathe the
soul, the latter is less tired and slept most good: at last the eight days regained all the
strength, health, lightness, and good humor of his most florid years. Zadig said to him: Have
you played at the ball, and you have not had enough: know that there is no basilisk in the
world, that a sober man and always makes Exercicio healthy lives, and how imagined amalgamation
is the art of gluttony with health as the Sorcerer's Stone, judicial astrology, and theology of
the Magi.

Knowing the quan Ogul first doctor of medicine was dangerous for such a man, collide with the
apothecary to send for guild basilisks to the other world: so that having been punished for
their good deeds always, was to die for having given health to a man gluttonous. Convidáronle
to a feast, where he ought to poison the second service, but still in the first, received a
part of the beautiful queen, and rose from the table, splitting without delay. He who is loved
by a beautiful, says the great Zoroaster, everything goes well in
this world.

CHAPTER XIX.
The fair.

Received the Queen was in Babylon with that joy with which
we always welcome a princess beautiful and unhappy