 

But all this would have mattered on time and do not think so. Then there was another discretion
to be a saber.

The saber is given, and, as expected, received Arturo.

For this, no injury care was. A month of bed to heal enough for the poet.

Also fulfilled, as expected unless the other provision. It was not dog or cat Madrid not to speak
of the love of Count frantic by the wife of a clerk in the Treasury, of his crazy claim that it
is respected as angelic creature, semi-divine, and out of order and
conditions that are used naturally, and his singular affection towards
her husband suffered, whose Count suffering had the impossible determination
that nobody would know or riese.

As Earl was not to challenge and kill all Madrid, particularly women,
story of her affair with Beatriz, imagined or real, but embroidered
and discussed by all styles, circulated on talk shows, cafes, casinos
and theaters.

Beatriz's reputation was more hurt and that the body of Arthur, is
the lance he had with him the Earl of Alhedín gentleman, incapable,
by persuasion and by the violence, to convince anyone of his Platonism.

XVI

Among

the many mistakes that I put the critics, nothing grieves me as much
as you accuse me Women always painting something rebellious and outrageous.

"Who is the author? - Say -. Have not known but light women? Why not us in their stories to the
honest and pure, which always fulfilled his duty, which can and should serve as a model? " "This author
- add - hates women or has very bad opinion of them."

Against unjust accusation and I have to say that Clara, and Lucia,
El Comendador Mendoza Irene even less in The Doctor Faustino, without
all those clothes and requirements can and should make women an angelic
creature.

I will not deny, however, that Dona Blanca had sinned, and that the ferocity of his penance was worse
than the sin itself, that Pepita Jimenez was too flirtatious and more passionate than reasonable,
and not once in love knew contained, and as a gun shot to the hair, that Mary, the immortal friend,
is abandoned his passion as if I had not had free will, as if he had been driven by an irresistible
force, that was interested Constancita, calculator and capricious, and Rosita did not recognize
human or divine law other than his whim, but in all these women - no hold otherwise - are noticed
in the midst of its biggest losses, such yearning for the infinite love so sweet so tender and
passionate earnestness to the role of Savior and Redeemer to provide a hint of bliss or happiness
for man wanted, even at the expense of his own condemnation, that effortlessly forgive seem sympathetic.

Moreover,
I have to repeat here, but little of tired: a complete virtue you can not take action that interested
and has some dramatic, horrific monsters not imagine, persecutors of that virtue.

As well accuse me, and certainly more so, poverty of imagination,
should not wonder I've had so far not enough verve to make up these
monsters.

Matter, finally, be aware that, in these stories called secular novels,
not characters should be left as allegories of virtues or vices, but
to take real life, where, typically, we see in them a certain mix
of good and bad qualities of vices and virtues, foibles starts sublime
and pathetic, which is what is the truth of the characters and what
gives the characters mock, if the author's style is able to both more
vivid and persistent reality that the characters historical.

In a poetic narrative that this is either novel, although the prose is written, a woman immaculate,
a saint, an angel, can not be mixed in the action but at the expense of others characters,
it is best to appear, without reaching the end of his robe to mud land, and end up vanishing
into the ether or up to the empyrean. His feet hardly be touch the ground.

In short, either way all is said, as I aspire to give aesthetic rules for writing novels, it is
certain that I, not because I think badly of women, but for lack
of imagination and the misfortune of not having found frequently holy
- not saints either - in this sublunary world, I have to allow me
to introduce this story, true and simple, a new character, women too,
who is far more than any other of my heroes to be a paragon of perfection,
but strongly involved in the events that I refer.

This woman is a Marquesa. His title is not necessary to say. The call it by its name baptism,
as if we have the greatest intimacy with her. The call Elisa.

It was about three years had been widowed. Not yet reached age thirty. She had no children.
It was delicious and very elegant. Not even his fiercest enemy was denied discreet, witty, fun
and cheerful. Not even his most determined dared to call worshipers beautiful, nor its detractors
ever molested a description of it ugly. Everyone unanimously the distinguished declared eminent
degree. But what stood out and why? It was not too high or too low or too white or too dark,
or blonde or brunette. In none of their there was nothing unusual
features or markings.

His nose was not long and flat, not too regular or too irregular, her mouth was not big or girl,
against her teeth could not pitch anyone an epigram, but also, without
exaggeration, could compare with the pearls.

In short: crushed and analyzed all the visible and tangible items of Elisa, for example, hands,
waist, feet, arms, throat and forehead, there was nothing to draw attention or for good nor
bad. The symmetrical layout or order of all these parties had nothing either of singular. The Elisa
was unique in the set, but in a strange way. The expression his face was no doubt what was notable,
which, more remarkable, made her unforgettable for those who had seen her only once.

It seems that his appearance was for all souls a force similar to that of the press stamping
on the bronze or gold, with indelible and firm drawing, the image that carries If the die. And
Elisa also made so that, yielding to all the demands of fashion voluble, taking all its changes
in dress and hairstyle, always kept unchanged, immutable, the material traces of his person, as
the figure in the steel die is recorded. Time itself seemed to have stood for it for eight years.
At least Elisa required contemplate too closely to notice some very slight on his face passing
of time that had happened.

Contábanse such wonders about the seductive power of Elisa, that even
the fools men invulnerable and most precious love feared if they were
to treat it a lot.

It was assumed frenzied passion that had inspired, stubborn, deep and lasting, and that she,
or had remained insensitive, or had yielded for an instant a fleeting sympathy, a hallucination
momentary before mastering his heart had vanished as a dream. If you had raised an idol on the
altar of his mind, he was overthrown at once.

The Marquis, the husband of Elisa, was a gentleman and very comm'il faut negligible. Their marriage
done for reasons of state and treasury, and had acted in love, or had created later. The full
vanity, a perfect vacuum around baby, all estimation and confidence,
from the day of the wedding until the day of death had been neatly
hidden under the polite forms of mutual consideration, respect and
cold the most delicate gallantry.

Moreover, Elisa had always gone through modest and prudent. Not cited, during marriage, a triumph
that love alone would have brought upon it. Had I known instill or without knowing or intending
it, had raised expectations that did not come to fruition.

Until now a widow, Elisa had not frequently addressed to the Earl of Alhedín.

Verle and wish her boyfriend was in all one. She was a genius so that we would proceed rudely called
flirtation, because his vanity was so subtle, so shoot and so refined, I needed a name more
pilgrims and newer.

So, as I have come to find out, because of Elisa had to enter the elegant and aristocratic
dialect Madrid the English word flirtation, which begins and even disseminated abasement. A
few years ago was a word that was silent except in the most elegant
rooms and only if applied to another woman who was not Elisa.

Elisa began, then, to flirt with Condesito.

He soon obtained inspire love a little, but not the Condesito of those who surrender and enslave
easily.

The flirtation leaves no trace, no trace, no sign of injury, and may
yet enter deep in the soul and hurt her death.

The most essential excellence of the flirtation is, what I have said,
to shoot darts so invisible, that the person who shoots can be taken
for dismissing, in favor augur without ever Atine or the foundation
or the testimony of omen, and hopes to evoke under such mysterious
spells that are seen by those ruling.

The question that a woman has done something to encourage, must remain standing. On this question
should appear another no less important, namely because the woman
has done something in that sense, what it has done with reflective
or raptured will?

Was there any inspiration was deliberate or unconscious?

It is fair to note that this theory about the flirtation has told me a lady very talented and
very learned in such studies. From what I can not answer, is that the word English has the same
meaning everywhere. Perhaps flirtation and coquetry are in Britain perfect synonyms. But here
we try to philology. It matters little value etymological and genuine speech. What matters is that
the word address flirtation, in the elegant salons of Spain, has a very different value, it means
a refinement, a subtlety of coquetry, flirtation rather plain and simple usually is customary.

Unfortunately for our Marchioness, Count Alhedín was not a man against whom they could enforce
such subtle arts. Count perhaps liked it rested quietly in doubt when other subjects it was,
but in the business of love, like leaving the question soon.

Elisa's flirtations were not, therefore, the success they had with other men.

The Count raised the issue in such a way that was necessary for the
mystery is cleared.

Elisa whisked denied all their flirtations, and the Count is away until calm, coldly his claim
of love. They returned the flirting, the demands were renewed, and she again refused, and Condesito
unwittingly offended, withdrew completely from the court to Elisa.
All Flirting further work was lost.

The Condesito Elisa even gave satisfaction of pride, showing their
anger or exhale a complaint.

The last flirtation, the latest flirtation with the Count had been sensitive, was in Paris during
the spring. In Paris also came the commitment of the Earl of no be sensitive again. And the Count
was able to meet its commitment. Easier conquests consoled and distracted him from that very
slight setback.

Was mortified a thousand times more pride in this than the Conde Elisa. Unaccustomed Elisa to
desist as soon heartthrobs pretending and withdraw as well with glacial rest, he was somewhat rough,
but concealed the sink.

The Condesito and she left, apparently, at least very close.

He had come to Madrid for business, and Elisa promised to go to Biarritz
for the summer.

Occurred, while in Madrid the Count, the appearance of Dona Ines Beatriz and Gardens Buen Retiro,
the efforts of Count to know them and treat them, and eventually
as we have already referred.

The count did not go to Biarritz to fulfill his promise friendly.

Elisa, at first, distracted with other flirtations, surrounded by adoration and triumphant ever,
not missed the lack of Conde. Assumed that business and held him still lasted in Madrid.

Later, when he reached her ears that kept him in Madrid Conde new love, Elisa was a little upset
as, but not well ascertained that no new love were in no great lady, no lady swanky and famous, but
with a villager, wife of a writer or anything like that, he became a terrible desire to laugh
and make fun the Condesito, and forgot his brilliant victories past,
considering it as an unhappy parapoco, who took refuge from the tacky,
or failure to achieve anything in higher areas, or having depressed
mood, or taste havoc, ruin and plebeian.

Elisa returned to Madrid.

Count saw in theaters, walks and talks, and found it so kindly and so friendly affection that was
more certain than ever his indifference to her point to love.

Indifference could not be affected or pretended that way.

This began to offend the vanity of Elisa. We dare not smite also ensure that any other fiber
of his heart, less petty than that which corresponds to vanity.

It also captured the mood of Elisa's most lively curiosity to know the woman clerk, from whom all
claimed as the Count was in love.

But Dona Beatriz had not penetrated more classrooms than in those of the Countess of San Teódulo;
would not drive, for the simple reason that it was not, going to Mass and other church and other
times that of Elisa.

Anyway, they went months without Elisa came to see Dona Beatriz.

It is true that if Elisa walked curious, he was also afraid of her. I was afraid to find it
beautiful and naturally distinguished. He reveled in mock vulgar and ordinary.

Meanwhile, Elisa came to the notice of something that had to mortify most of all: the drive Count on
us to believe that their relations with Dona Beatriz was Petrarchism himself. Was this is true
or not, involved a consideration, respect, a delicate attention to
clerk's wife, Elisa was filled with anger and even envy when it pondered.

The more efforts did not ponder, the more frequent were the thoughts.

Elisa still conformed to explain everything by a certain cowardice, indolence or poverty of spirit,
which withdrew the count of how difficult and how easy it was inclined to, that led him to depart
of the rough and steep climb to follow the beaten path and plains.

The I could not suffer with patience was that the Count is pleased
and still boasts that go up by higher roughness, and struggling with
the toughest challenges she had excited in vain to climb and overcome.

Despite their efforts to pretend the contrary, insisted Elisa then form large idea of ??merit
of Dona Beatriz.

- It must be - he said to himself - a devil woman, beautiful, discreet, possessing infernal resources,
as has been bewitched and stupefy the Count, which is no small or inexperienced no fool.

With these and similar reflections the Marquesa is tormented almost continuously.

The new, finally, the showdown with the poet Arturo Conde to defend the pristine purity of women's
clerk, a bomb exploded in the heart of Elisa.

- The wish, the love madly - Elisa said in the depths of my soul -. What will be done that daemon
to capture those thoughts free to breaking on the mind clear and calm, to move a storm of passions
in that spirit so calmly?

Nothing fixed Elisa answer such questions, but vaguely, and pretended
to Dona Beatriz so beautiful, so quiet and so elegant as it was in
reality, and also implied in Dona Beatriz learned an art not a wisdom
infused just so extraordinary, that all flirtations she used to use
were crude, childish or silly, in comparison with those of fortunate
that dark and provincial.

In this state of mind came a day happened to be damn, going for a walk Elisa in Lander, while
passing through the Puerta del Sol at about four o'clock in the afternoon,
interpose some women off guard and they were about to be trampled.

The man who accompanied escaped the danger of shaking his stick before the horse, which, terrified,
is raised their hands, and gesticulating rearing and shook the landau and scared at the same
time Elisa.

How it would not be surprised to recognize the man who had just given him the fright Alhedín Count
himself, who greeted her politely and humbly asked forgiveness sign
of that necessary irreverence!

There was no time for talk to Elisa Conde, whose horses, paragraph
Count them block the path, pulled furiously, despite the vigor with
which the driver was holding.

Elisa had time, however, to look, to examine the two women. Guessed the point who they were.

Cruel
was the result of its review. Beatriz absorbed their attention, scarcely noticed Inesita; but Beatrice
saw her and watched, studied with an intensity so deep, which offset
surplus over the short period of the study.

In the depths of his consciousness, into that abyss where not served
by larger self live in us, and as far as understanding rarely gets
dull, Elisa recognized much lower for a moment around Dona Beatriz.

Soon, however, turned his mind from the prostration, he recovered from being intimidated, the
faint he had fallen.

The reaction of wounded pride was very violent and powerful.

Then, running in his car down the street of Alcala, Elisa vowed to fight to the death Dona Beatriz,
which was far removed from that rose against him so formidable enemy.

On behalf of pride in the name of love, which was born suddenly pride
in his soul, if well with impure bastard birth, Elisa was resolved
to fight, to venture all to attract Count back and take it away from
Dona Beatriz and take it.

Husband or lover, everything was just at that moment of anger: what mattered was held the count,
get that was not Dona Beatriz, get that woman saw abandoned.

XVII

Despite its cult of Dona Beatriz, the Condesito still going to theaters, tours and meetings aristocratic.
At these points always found Elisa.

This re-used to captivate all the means employed had before, but the little Count, firm and cold
as a stone, it is not sensible or even showed it was understood.

Elisa did not lose hope so: its arts and was strained beyond the term until where his life had
taken the flirtation. Neither got the Count and give the slightest sign that were inclined to
surrender.

Elisa then took pains in her dress and hairstyle, looked new and rich
galas, the mother of invention so that the gatherings had more spell
their conversation, drew around him a few men were worth more to any
style, was surrounded by more brilliant and numerous court ever and
even so he could overcome the indifference of Conde.

Samples gave him more obvious and flattering your choice of left planted a thousand times around
a circle of admirers, and breaking on balls, went to grab the arm of the scornful. For he was
the sweetest eyes, the warmest smiles, all those signs in short,
often portend for and reveal love, without going beyond the limits
of modesty and decorum.

The count did not respond to diversion.

This would, but less cruel. The Count replied with gratitude, with extreme courtesy and compliance
with such glacial, which put itself out of the poor Marchioness.

Imagine, finally, Elisa, that was happening with the Count as the
shepherd liar in the fable who cried "Wolf!

Wolf! "When the wolf came, and that once the wolf came, not worth crying "Wolf!" because those
who could help him no credit given their cries. Elisa Conde estimated that came with the claim,
fearing new joke. Was therefore necessary to give full evidence of sincerity.

Much has violated before resolving. His pride would not consent. Their customs, so contrary the
humble honesty, his desire to put dock.

Elisa knew promising, encouraging, giving hope in such an air and confusing that even she could
deny that he had promised encouraged. His love, or rather the ghost, the appearance of love
she created and nurtured in his soul, was so subtle and vaporous,
it slid to the bulk of the most hardened, sometimes waking up storms,
and left no trace no trace of their passage.

Vanish as shadow was illusory, vain as sylph, and had the strength to destroy a giant heart.

But the ghost of love is not worth it and with the Count. True love, though born of envy and jealousy,
not worth either. The Count, chastened and false love, false took for the true. It was essential
to show his true love and reality, but offered the slightest doubt. Elisa Beatriz eager to steal
the heart of the Count, cost what it might took.

In this mood, Elisa was given to all that could assure the victory.

But in the midst of its most violent passions, prudence never left.
Estimated calmly, as if in quiet.

Calculated, then, on this occasion,
that unconditional surrender was not victory but defeat; it is possible
that the Count, true winner, to return to Dona Beatriz, hiding fleeting
infidelity or asking pardon for his fault. Elisa shivered just thinking
of spite.

His first idea was that the Count, if left to Dona Beatrice,
or her husband or her lover, limited to only one of the two terms
of the dilemma. The Marquesa, so free up there, decided to subject
to the dominion of man. It was rich, despite his futile flirtation,
its reputation had been preserved without stain, was no less illustrious
family that the Count, was for Count an excellent match, why were
not to marry the two? It was the only sure Elisa had to triumph over
Dona Beatriz.

A woman as proud as a hint Elisa could not direct the
Count: they could not She was declared. Decidióse, therefore, a step
that would not compromise its reputation, which the left unharmed,
but could mortify his vanity. 

Called home to an elderly uncle who
inspired him the most confidence confession made to him general of
his flirtation with Count Alhedín; recognized that with love there
are no jokes; stated that, teasing her with love, and was mocked,
the captive and love, and begged the wise guy who saw the mother of
the little Count, and, as their own, while giving understand that
it was satisfied that the Marquise was propitious, propose to that
lady so bright marriage for his son.

Uncle discretion and ability
to comply with the delicate assignment. Alhedín widow Countess found
that his son could not dream of better wedding, and put himself entirely
from the Marquesa, whose strong will for the Count's extremely flattered.

It
goes without saying that the negotiations were with the utmost secrecy.