 I have not forgotten my father was a tall, of beautiful
eyes, very twisted his mustache. Hugged me warmly, kissed me, and Lina exclaimed :--«¡ lifting
me! Linilla! Who is my charm? Who is my medal? Who I want a long, long ... Mu ... cho! "

But one day he went to war .... Always the war and revolutions! It was early morning, and he went
with officers and soldiers. We went to say goodbye. I picked her up, kissed me eyes, hugged
my mother, then mounted his horse, and said, 'Hasta la vista !...» and left. We did not see
him. That war lasted three years. He was not to know what state away, and we we wait your turn.

One
day my mother received a letter.

My father called us. Was obliged to obey, and then As we sell, furniture, clothes, everything
in the house, we started our journey soloists, in a carriage that gave many bumps and it was
very noise running down the pavements. We walked day and night, and we only stopped at the inn to
sleep and rest a few hours. Before dawn, the carriage again, again empty roads, afraid of thieves.
We used to go through some towns. The car stopped, got off to go to the restaurant, ate, and from
walking. One day my mom complained that it hurt head. He had fever and was obliged to stay in
a village in an inn. I slept with her, I remember burning with fever, his body burned like an ember.
I woke up at half night, and I said: Mom! Mom! And did not answer, remained dead. Once, seeing
did not respond, I began to mourn .... Then my mom came to, and tucked me saying things I did
not understand, very strange things. Dad told me that my mother had typhus. The landlady called
the Father, and when he arrived the patient had lost consciousness. Came town doctor and stated
that it was too late, that the agony was close!

- No live one hour .-- ...-- said Father, Put the oils!

- This creature should not be here ...-- replied the priest, placing the stole - that take my
home!

I did not want to part with there. I resisted, I cried, I wept ... but in vain! I was a little one
seven years, and yet, I realized what was happening: he would never see my mother. Crying I
and my tears were tears of great pain. My mother was dying, was not to see me anymore. They
took me to the rectory. There is nothing I amused or comforted me, I spent the day without eating,
sullen, unwilling to the attention of the father and the gift of an old woman, housekeeper of this
modest home. I snuggled on the couch, where I gave up the dream, and then took me to bed. At
midnight I woke up, crying, calling my mom. The old woman came to see me, me clothed and was stroking
until I fell asleep. In the morning, when I opened my eyes my mother asked. I said I was in
heaven. The old woman washed me, clothed me, and gave me breakfast. To distract me to the room
and gave me toys, dolls birth, pastors, goats, sheep, a cardboard house, a mill with its wheel
that spinning move by blasting