 And in this way was beyond what is
reasonable and made judgments adventurous, understanding all the grotesque and Trabuco things.

Los
Condes de San Teódulo seemed a if Counts not stick, and while the
gathering was subject of true worth and class, the concept was a bit
cloudy that Don Braulio masters of the house had to project a certain
dark shadow on the house that attended.

In almost no one thought right. Strange human condition! One only won of course confidence, one
just seemed elegant, distinguished, noble completely discreet, distinguished, elegant, sweet
and fair: The Count of Alhedín.

Seeing often whispering Rosita and be home more carefree than the others, Don Braulio, going
from ready on this occasion, made a settlement there in his mind,
and decided the Earl of Alhedín represented in that house on paper
than in reality represented the poet Arthur.

Back inside the Don Braulio Conde graciously spared this loss, and considering their excellent
qualities, and without fear of anything on this side, almost intimate
with him.

Instead, the poet, who was very nosy, which of course treated with the utmost confidence the
two sisters, who approached a lot to talk to them, and by bad manners as being somewhat short-sighted,
and began to Beatrice in verse and prose infinite compliments, Don Braulio took grudge and
looked like a Don Juan Tenorio needy and third or fourth class.

Anyway, Don Braulio not loved the gathering, but Don Braulio had a pattern for his conduct, which
had decided not to depart.

As it is society, which would be the ideal he had of the great world, the fact was that the house
of the Counts of San Teódulo was a respectable house, where any other in place, would have been
thrilled to be admitted. I could think Don Braulio it wanted to Rosita and her husband could
denigrate, in the depths of his severe awareness, gathering with their commentators, but to
the world, under the conditions of this life we ??live, could not resist, bypassing ferret,
by jealous and tyrant his wife to continue going to that gathering.

Don Braulio would not also include his wife with sermons or severely, or mandates. She wanted only
love for love. His plan was laid out. Could not and should oppose Beatriz treated Rosita and to strengthen
bonds of friendship with her.

Conveníale finally give notice to his wife about the moral value of Rosita, to not deceive,
but hide then his anger if his wife was treating.

And this was Don Braulio.

Some might think that Don Braulio did wrong and I was weak in character. Here we do not give as
paragon of strength.

I paint as it is.

We will say, however, as fertilizer, which are very rare Cato.

All are reported behavior the servants they will receive at home, and one of those people
they are dealing with and intimate with his wife and daughters, provided
that such persons to save face and not frowned upon in the world.

In short, and with tolerance, and with the blessing of Don Braulio,
and Ines Beatriz, since that night on, kept going frequently to socialize
Countess San Teodulo and being his most precious and attractive ornaments.

Rosita
also sometimes carried them in his company, and the theater, and to
the Gardens, and the walk, and eat at home.

Don Braulio, as his duties
or his humor, was or was not with his wife and sister to these entertainment
and parties, to which Rosie was always careful to invite him