 

I beg your M. receive poor service from a person who did most if his power and desire to conform.
And since he writes VM type and details of the matter very extensive, it seemed decided not
to start in the middle, but at the beginning, because they have a complete picture of me, and
also because they consider the nobles inherited states how little they are owed, Fortune was with
them as part and how much did those who, being so contrary to paddling strength and skill,
came to fruition.

First Treaty Lazarus has his life, and whose son was

For VM to know all things I called Lazaro de Tormes, the son of Tome Gonzales and Antona Perez,
Tejares natural, village of Salamanca. She and a dark man of those that animals cured, came
to the attention. Sometimes he would come to our house and went in the morning, sometimes he
would come to the door, pretending to buy eggs, and would come inside. I at the beginning of their
entry, pesábame with him and he scared me color and gesture that was bad, but when I saw that with
the food got better, wanting Fuila well, because he always brought bread and pieces of flesh,
and in the winter firewood so we could keep warm. So, continuing with the inn and talk, my mother
gave me a little black nice, which I jumped and help keep it warm. And remember one time when
my black father chessman with the little fellow, like the child that
my mother and I were white, and not him, fleeing the afraid for my
mother, and pointing say, "Mother, coconut!".

He answered laughing: "whoreson!"

I, however well a young boy, noted that word of my brother, and said to myself:

"There must be many in the world fleeing from others when they do not see themselves!"

As luck would have the conversation of Zaide, that was his name, reached the ears of Butler, and
done research, he found himself half through the barley, which for
animals gave him, stealing, and saved, firewood, curry, aprons, and
blankets and bedding for horses had been lost, and when nothing else
had, unfettered beasts, and all this came my mother to raise my little
brother. We are not surprised at priests and friars, because the one
steals from the poor and another house for his devotees and to help
as much, when a poor slave to love what he did?