 

Dam more terror, Don Fabrizio fled, calling aloud to the steward and other servants; but nobody came
to his aid, and toured the galleries shouting that echoed in the vaults of the stately mansion.

-
Antonio, Bernardo, July, Gilberto! shouted, but nobody wanted to
answer, and true fear down, we can say he shot, the stairs and ran
to call the concierge.

Big hits gave at her door with both hands, but no one heard their desperate voices of terror.

He
approached the entrance of the palace and tried to open the bronze door that closed, but try as
he did, he could not get moving an inch, and finally, in desperation,
conceived the idea of ??going out through the bars, because I wanted
to leave that all costs home.

As we have said, Mr. Fabrizio was extremely thin, and decided to try to pass the body on that
side of the fence, where the bars were more slender and therefore there was more space between
them.

The next morning, a huge competition of onlookers crowded the entrance to the palace. Prince's
head, bruised and broken, was trapped between two bars, and eyes
saltándosele orbits, seemed to look with terror at the board, in which
Ghiberti decapitation was masterfully carved Hugo de Portinaris by
the ruthless Orlando Dummy operations.

PRACTICAL MAN

A AGUSTIN BASAVE.

                 

The Father Minister of the House of Novices of the Society of Jesus was a toddler Espadaler of
red face, white hair and smiling expression. It was said that in his youth had treatment with
the Muses, but if such was the case, no remnant of it guessed in Padre Hurtado. The Father Minister,
a holy man if any, was above all a practical man; tests be gave a thousand times, to the point
of having this quality of his proverbial, not only among the community but throughout the region. Seems
useless to say that this establishment going admirably, as befitted the great institution that was
a part.

A cheerful morning in June, when Father Ministers noted with satisfaction that the consumer of potatoes
in the last month was much smaller than the corresponding previous
year a light touch on his door came to interrupt their work.

- Adelante!
he exclaimed.

Source Brother turned the doorknob and said:

- Father Minister, a
man wants to speak.

Padre Hurtado, enemy of lobbies, slightly furrowed brow, but he answered;

- That happens.

A few moments later, he had an individual, a description is useless
to do, then was like thousands of others: for forty years or so, apparently
healthy and poor, as that money, as the saying goes, can not be concealed.

-
Good morning, Father.

- Good God gives to us.

What is offered?

Padre Hurtado, come to see you because I find myself
in difficult situations. I have nothing to eat