 We are like fish in the sea, do you understand, capers? Fish living in
the same water in which dissolved his grandparents and the germs that beat their successors.
Our water is the environment in which we exist: space and earth live surrounded by those who
were and those who will. And I, capers friend, when I feel like to mourn no one remembering
the mound, the sad futility of the florets surrounding it, I think mom is not there completely, that
something has escaped, be moving through life, I encountered friendliness attracted to a mysterious,
and accompanies me by engaging in touch as soft as a kiss ... "Lie," a voice yells at me thinking.
But I desoigo, I dream, I invent beautiful lies for my comfort. Maybe in this breeze brushes we face,
there is something gentle and trembling hands I caressed one last time before going to prison.

The
gypsy had ceased to moan, watching their eyes African Salvatierra, enlarged by amazement. I
did not understand most of his words, but discerned in them a hope.

-
According to this, do you think your market that Mari-Cru has not
completely died too?

What can I watch it even when ajogue me your memory? ...

Salvatierra he felt influenced by the cries of the family, the agony he had seen, by the misery
of that body that swayed a few steps inside the car.

Poetry Sad night, the silence torn at intervals by screams of pain flooded his soul.

If, capers he feel about his beloved dead.

Some of it would go up to her face as a perfume, plowing the earth with the hoe and the groove
again send his nose the freshness of the soil removed. Some would also its soul in the ears
of wheat, poppies red dripping gold flanks of the harvest, the birds singing at dawn when the
human herd going into the pit, in the bushes of the mountain, about fluttering insects which
frightened by racing mares and snorting bulls.

- Who knows - went on the rebel - whether those stars which appear
as blinking your eyes high, there is something at this time of the
light of those other eyes that you loved so much, capers?

...

But the look of astonishment betrayed Roma, who had some compassion, as if he thought crazy Salvatierra.

-
You scared the greatness of the world, compared to the smallness
of your poor dead, and back.

The glass is too big for a tear is true. But the drop is lost the sea ... and yet there it is.

Salvatierra
went on, as if to convince himself. What was the greatness or smallness? In a drop of liquid
were millions upon millions of beings, all life own: as many as men
roamed the planet.

And one of these agencies infinitesimal enough to kill a human being, to decimate a nation with the
epidemic. Why not were to influence men, microbes of the infinite, in that universe, within
which was the force of his personality? ...

After the revolution seemed to doubt his words, repent of them.

- Perhaps this belief is tantamount to cowardice: you can not understand
me, capers.

But Ay! Death! The mystery, spy us and follows us, mocking our superb and our satisfaction! ...
I despise it, I laugh at it, I hope without fear to rest than once, and me, lots. But men love,
and love makes us tremble for those around us, destroy our energy, makes us fall flat on his face,
trembling cowards before that witch, inventing a thousand lies, to console us for their crimes.
Oh, unless you love! ... What animal would be as brave and fearless man!

The car, rattling his departure, had left the gypsy and Salvatierra,
who stopped to speak.

And did not see him. Served as their guide their distant chirp and family plan, marching behind, rushing
back the bass motion of your pain.

- Bye, Mari-Cru! - Shouted the little ones, as acolytes of a religion .-- funeral has been
killed our cousin! ...

And when they were silent for a moment, turned to sound the voice
of the old, desperate, shrill, as the pain of a priest.

- Gone is
the white dove, the gypsy durs, the rose bud before opening!

... Sr. God! What do you think that only the good ajogas? ...

VII

On reaching the vintages with the month of September, the wealthy
were more concerned Jerez the attitude of the workers who the good
result of the collection.

In The Circle Caballista, even more cheerful gentlemen forgot the merits of their ponies, the
excellence of their dogs and the elegance of the girls whose ownership is disputed, not speak
only of those people tanned, weathered by the penalties, dirty, smelly and resentful eyes that provided
arms to their vineyards.

In many societies, recreational occupied almost all lower Long Street, not talking about something
else. What else wanted the workers in the vineyards? ... Wages earned real ten, ate the stew
in bowls that they were settled without the love intervene, they had an hour off in winter and
two in summer, to avoid choking limestone on the sparks flying, they gave up eight cigarettes
per day and slept at night, most of them having a blanket over cattail mats. A true connoisseurs
of such tenants, "and still complained and demanded reforms threaten with the strike? ...

In the horse, which owned the vineyard showed themselves suddenly softened by piety, and spoke of
the farmhands of the estates. Those poor things were really deserving better luck! Two real wages,
a ranch across tasteless food and sleep in Dresses soil, less warm than the beasts. It was
logical for them to complain, not vineyard workers who lived as if they were gentlemen compared
to the farmhands.

But the owners of the estates protested indignantly, seeing that they intended to throw on them
all the weight of the danger. If not reciprocated bracero better, because the product was farmhouse
was not for more. Could compare wheat, barley and cattle with those famous vineyards in the world,
throwing gold gushing from its branches, and in certain years gave their owners a profit if saliesen
easier to steal from the roads? ... When rejoiced in such a fortune was to be generous, give
a little of welfare parle they supported their efforts. Workers complained
with good reason.

And the gatherings of the rich, passed in a continuous fight between the owners the two sides.

His
life of leisure had become paralyzed. The wheel stood still, the cards were not open on the green
table, spent the best girls on the sidewalk without windows overlook
groups the heads casinos throwing compliments and sly winks.

The concierge of the Horse, he was crazy looking for the key to what is pompously titled library in the
articles of association: a hidden closet in the darkest corner of the home, poor foolish as cupboard,
showing through their windows dusty and cobwebbed, a few dozen books that no one had opened. The
lords they felt stung partners suddenly by the desire to learn, to train for what they called social
question and every evening watching the closet as a tabernacle of science, hoping to appear
the key to seek her inside the light they wanted.

It was not really big its rush learn from those things that brought socialism to the workers
scrambled.

Some were outraged to read the books before. Lies, all lies, to embitter existence! They did
not read and were happy. Why do not they do the same those Silly camp, which took off hours at night
to his dream of forming a circle around Comrade they read newspapers and pamphlets? The man, the
more ignorant, more blissful ... Y Abomination looks threw the closet of books, like a reservoir
of evil, while keeping the cabinet was unhappy in her womb a wealth of volumes harmless given
away for the most part by the Ministry at the request of deputy district;
verses the Virgin Mary, and patriotic song books, guides for the breeding
of canary and rules the domestic rabbit reproduction.

While the rich vied with each other or be outraged by examining the claims of workers, they remained
in an attitude of protest. The strike had begun in part, with a lack of cohesion showed the spontaneity
of the resistance.

In some vineyards owners, driven by fear of losing the harvest, "passed around", but stroking
in the rancorous mind the hope of retaliation and that the clusters were at the winery.

Other, richer, "they were ashamed," as stated in knightly arrogance, refusing to any settlement with
the rebels.

Don Paul Dupont was the most spirited of them. Lost before her store to get out to that mob.
Irle impositions with him, he was the father of her workers, and caring not only for supporting
your body, but the health of your almo, freeing the "crass materialism!"

- It is a "matter of principle" - declared on your desktop to employees,
who moved yes the head even before he spoke .-- I am able to give
them what they want, and more.

But do not ask me, that I require! This is to deny my sacred rights of love ... To me the money
I care little, and the proof is that rather than give, the better I harvest is lost Marchamalo.

And Dupont, aggressive in defending what he called his rights, not only refused to hear claims
of the laborers, but was expelled from the vineyard to all that is
meant as long before agitators who tried to rebel.

Marchamalo remained in very few tenants, but Dupont had replaced the
strikers Jerez with Gypsy and girls coming from the mountains to the
abundant bait wages.

As the harvest did not require great hardships, Marchamalo was full of women crouched cutting
slopes in clusters, while from the way the strikers insulted private work for his "ideas."

The rebellion of the laborers had coincided with what Louis Dupont entitled his period seriously.

The
skull had ended by surprise with its cousin, the powerful new behavior ... No women and scandals!
La Marquesa and did not remember him, offended by its detours, had become to join the pig handler,
"the only man who could make it go."

The gentleman looked sad when he talked about his famous binges. It
had gone forever: no one could be young forever.

Now he was a man, but seriously man and useful. He had something in his head, his former teachers,
the Fathers of the Company recognized him. I did not think stopping on his way to conquer a
position as high politics as his cousin was in the industry. Other, more wicked than himself,
ran land issues and were heard by the government, back in Madrid, as viceroys of the country.

Of past life preserved only with the brave friendships, strengthening
their courtship new bullies.

The pampered and kept for the purpose of which will serve as backup in his political career.
Who would face his first election, seeing him in so honored company! ... And to entertain
the honorable court, was dining at the grocery and getting drunk
with them.

This does not undermine their respectability. An occasional Jumer was no reason so that no
one is shocked. Customs of the earth! In addition, this gave some popularity.

And Louis Dupont, convinced of the importance of his person, going
from one casino to another speaking the "social question" with vehement
gesticulations that endangered the bottles and glasses line the tables.

Caballista

shunned in the Circle gatherings of young people, which only reminded him of his past follies
to applaud, suggesting larger ones. He sought the conversation "Parents serious', the great planters
and wealthy farmers, who began to hear with some attention, recognizing that he had a good head
Perdis.

Dupont hinchábase with vehement speech by talking about the country's workers. Repeating what
he had heard from his cousin and religious who frequented the house of Dupont, but exaggerating
solutions, with an authoritarian and brutal burning to the taste of his hearers, so rude people
as rich, who found pleasure in breaking down bulls and tame wild horses.

For Luis, the question was very simple. A little charity, and then religion, many religions, and
stick to it gets out. With this social conflict had just called and was all as a mill pond. How
could they complain about the workers, where there were men as his cousin and many of those present
(here the audience appreciative smiles and movements approval), which
was charitable to a fault and unfortunately could not attend without
reaching into his pocket and give a hard, and even two?

...

Answered rebels this charity was not enough, and that, despite this, many people lived in poverty.
What could the owners to remedy what was hopeless? Always there would be rich and poor, hungry
and sated, only the insane or criminals could dream of equality.

Equality! ... Dupont used a ironic that his audience excited. All jokes that the noblest of human
aspirations had inspired his cousin Paul and his court priests, repetíalos
Luis with a very firm conviction, as if they were the summary of universal
thinking.

What was that for equality? ... Anyone could grab home, if he liked, and he, in turn, would steal
the neighbor's jacket, because it was necessary, and the other would
take the paw on the woman over there, because the considered of your
choice.

The sea, gentlemen ... Does not deserve four shots or the straitjacket that spoke of such equality?

And
the laughter of the speaker, uníanse the laughter of all partners. Crushed socialism! What grace
and what that boy had gab! ...

Many old gentlemen shook their heads with a patronizing air, recognizing that Luis was needed
elsewhere, it was unfortunate that his words were lost in this atmosphere of smoke snuff, and the
first time would have to satisfy your taste, listen to the whole of Spain that criticism from the
stands just as sparkling.

Dupont, emboldened by the general assent, still talking, but now grimly. The people down, I needed
before wages, was the consolation of religion. Without religion we live raging, a victim of all kinds
of unhappiness, and this was the case of workers Jerez.

Do not believe in anything, not going to Mass, the priests mocked, thought only of the degollinas
social revolution and executions of bourgeois and Jesuits had no hope of eternal life, comfort
and compensation for the misery here below, which are insignificant
they last only a few dozen years, and as a logical outcome of such
impiety, were their poverty harder, with new dark tones.

One herd, sad and without God, deserved their punishment.

Not to complain of their masters, because they they struggled to get back on track! That accountability
to the real authors of their misfortune, Salvatierra and others like him, who had snatched the
faith!

- Besides, gentlemen - harangued the young gentleman with intonation tribune - what will be
achieved by increasing the wages? Promoting the service and nothing else. These people do not save:
the people have not saved before. Let's see: I submitted a laborer that I have saved your savings.

All
were silent, shaking his head in assent.

No one had the worker required by Dupont, and he smiled in triumph, hoping in vain to be wonderful
to achieve savings a fortunilla on his wages of a few real.

- Here - continued with solemnity - no taste for work and thrift.

You see the worker in other countries work harder than this earth and save a little capital for
old age. But here! ... bracero here as a young man thinks only in catching someone neglected girl
behind a haystack or Gañanía during sleep, and old, barely meeting few cents, used in wine
and gets drunk.

And all at once, as if suddenly lost his memory, with great severity
anathematized vice workers.

What could be expected from a mob without another illusion in life than to drink? ... Well said Dupont.
Drunk! People abject misery perpetuated of his condition, females raping like animals! ...

The Master knew the means of ending the anarchy. The government played much of the blame. In those
hours, having started the strike, had to take a battalion Jerez, army, if need be, and guns, many
guns. And he complained bitterly about the neglect of above, as if the army of Spain had one
mission for the rich store of Jerez for them to live peaceful, and would amount to a felony
not to fill the streets and fields of pants bayonets bright red,
just the tenants showed some dissatisfaction.

Luis was a liberal, very liberal. Dissented on this point teachers of the Company, who spoke
Don Carlos with enthusiasm, saying it was "the only flag." He was with his command, and not once
mention the real people who do not cast forth the title ahead His Majesty, as if they could hear
from far-fetched these samples respected and rewarded what he wanted. It was liberal, but their
freedom was of decent people. Freedom for those with something to lose, and for the common people,
all the bread possible, and stick, long stick, the only way to annihilate the evil that man
is born with and develops without the restraint of religion.

He knew the story, had read more than those who listened and deigned to share with you of his knowledge,
kindness protective.

- You know you - say - why France is richer and more advanced than us? ... Because the bandits
grasped the Commune, and was charged a few days more than forty thousand of those points. He used
the barrel and ametrallodora to finish quicker with the mob, and
everything was clean and quiet ... To me - the gentleman continued
Ph.D. air - I do not like France, because it is a Republic and that
there are decent people forget God and do mockery of his ministers.

But I want for this country a man as Thiers. This is what needed here, a man who smiles and machine
gunned the bastard.

And smiled to show he was able to be as Thiers as the other.

The conflict in Jerez as arranged in twenty-four hours. To give him the authority and would what
ero good.

The following performances of La Mano Negra, had had some effect. The mob quailed before the
gallows erected in the square of the prison.

But this was not enough. Desirable to remove a loose drain the beast rebel forces. To send
him already be in prison the hubs of all societies of the field workers brought revolt in the city.

But
it also seemed bland and insufficient, and immediately be rectified with propositions more fierce.
Ero better harass the rebels, abort the plans came prepared, "prick to jump out early, "and once
placed in an attitude of rebellion, to them and that there was not one! Much civil guard, many horses,
many artillery.

For that held the weight of the rich contributions, whose best part was taking the army. If not
so, what they were for the soldiers who so expensive side, in a country that had to sustain wars?
...

As a precaution, should suppress the evil shepherds who rose up the herd misery.

- To all those who walk on the field, in Gañanía Gañanía, spreading evil and vile papers poisonous
books, four shots.

Those who cast howl harangues and barbarity in those meetings to bells covered with at night in
a ranch or in the vicinity of a tavern, four shots. And the same to those in the vineyards, disobeying
their masters and the pride of knowing read, learn to their colleagues
in the nonsense that bring the papers ... A Fernando Salvatierra four
shots ...

But sir, just said it seemed to repent.

A flush instinctive troubled his eloquence.

Goodness and virtue of that rebel infundíanle some respect.

Same as approved their plans, they remained silent, as if they were
repugnant to include the revolutionary in throw lavish distribution.

It was a crazy admiration imposed, a saint who did not believe in God, and those landlords felt
for him a respect equal to the Moor to the holy man mad curses him and threatens him with his stick.

-
No - continued the gentleman, - in a straitjacket Salvatierra, and
to be spread their doctrines in a madhouse what you have left.

The public approved of these solutions Dupont. The owners of the herds of horses, old Pin grizzled
who spent hours looking at the bottle with a priestly silence, its
gravity broke the young man smiled.

- Er Tié talented boy - said
one .-- Talk like a diputao.

And the others approve.

- You will Pablito, his cousin, that take it out when yeguen elections.

Luis felt fatigued at times of triumphs to harvest in the casinos, the amazement inspired by his
sudden seriousness to former colleagues of gay life.

Hobbies reborn fun with the little people.

- I'm sick of snobs - the man said nonchalantly over his loyal acolyte the Goat .-- Come and field,
a little fanfare body thanks you.

And with the desire to remain under the protection of his powerful
cousin, you've passed the day in Marchamalo, feigning interest in
the outcome of the harvest.

The vineyard was full of women, and Luis liked dealing with those girls mountain to thank the gentleman
laughed, and appreciated their generosity.

Maria de la Luz and her
father as an honor hosting the regularity with which Louis visited
the vineyard. The noisy Matanzuela adventure, was hardly a distant
memory. Things sir! These people, traditionally accustomed to respect
the noisy pleasures of the rich, disculpábanlos as if it were a duty
of youth. 

Mr. Fermin was aware of the great change that was made
in Don Luis, his boasts serious man, and saw with pleasure that came
to the Vineyard to escape the temptations of the city.

Her daughter
also warmly welcomed the gentleman, calling him sir as in the days
of his childhood, and laughing all through. Was the master of Raphael,
and someday she would be his servant in that farm, he saw all the
time with imagination, like the nest of their happiness. Of revelry
scandal that had so incensed against the overseer, barely remembered.
Young master showed himself repented of his past, and people, to take
a few months, I had forgotten the entire farm scandal.

Luis showed
great love for life Marchamalo. Sometimes at night he was surprised
and stayed to sleep in the tower of Dupont.

- I'm there as a patriarch
- he told his friends Jerez .-- Surrounded by girls who love me as
if his dad