 And is not that good philosophy confuse effects causes, but
not knowing anything but the physical phenomenon, one can stick to it: limited by what touches
to the cause, to the abstract idea of ??causality, which offers nothing in particular, and therefore
does not enter into combination in their scientific work. Newton was immortalized with his system
of universal attraction, and yet begins confess his ignorance about the cause of the effect
that slogan. When you exit the phenomena and the calculation to which they give rise, it enters
the realm of metaphysics.

[21.] The natural sciences appreciated qualities of bodies that have nothing to do with extension,
such as heat and the like, what appears scuttle said about the extension. However, this difficulty
vanishes as specious consideration the way in which science measures these qualities, and the
final result, far from ruining the I've set, it consolidates, extends
and clarifies.

How can see the heat? Why relation to the feeling that causes us? in any way. Al enter a very
hot piece live experience a sensation of heat, Soon it disappears
to continuing the same temperature.

Shaking the hand of another, We find more or less hot or cold, as we have ours.

Heat and cold are measured, not themselves, nor with respect to our feelings, but the effect
produced, and this leaves no changes to the extension.

The thermometer we determine the temperature the greater or less elevation of mercury in one
line. Its Grades are expressed in parts of the line marked on it.

I know that what we try to see is something different from the extension, but the truth is that
can only be achieved by referring to it, sticking to effects which are modifications thereof.
Thus, the degree of heat that results in the boiling water, it is appreciated Reaumur thermometer
in the grade 80, and with the naked eye know this degree the agitation
of the water, that is, by motion, also related to the extension.

At the same reduces the rarefaction and condensation of bodies, it is only occupy more or less space,
have greater or smaller, and therefore greater or lesser extent.

[22.] In the light and colors we know nothing scientifically, but regard to the different directions and
combinations of light rays, since in arriving at the same sensation of this or that kind, and we
limit ourselves to feel, do not know what else but sorry. Combining different modes of light rays and
directing them as appropriate, we know we can change our feeling,
but here it no more than knowledge Scientific extension in the middle
of which we use, and consequently experienced feeling him.

Everything else is completely unknown to us.

[23.] The same could apply to all other sensations, including touch. What is what surnamed
hardness of a body? This resistance we feel when we play. Well, if we ignore the feeling that
in itself offers us nothing but the awareness herself, what do we find? impenetrability. What
is meant by impenetrability? The inability to occupy two bodies at the same moment the same
space. We are already with the extension. If we understand the cohesion strength of the molecules,
what is the cohesion? In the juxtaposition of the parties in such a way that can not be separate
but very hard. And what is it separate?

It is going to occupy a different place than it occupies. Hay again here as the ideas of extension.

The
same sound, scientifically we know nothing but respect to extension and movement. It is known that
the musical scale is expressed by a series of numbers representing
fractional air vibrations.

[25.] Similarly the fourth proposition is demonstrated, namely, that lacking the idea of ??extension,
lack of any idea of ??corporeal thing, as we ran out of fixed of any kind with respect to the
phenomena that walk entirely blind. Just do the test to be convinced of this. Dispense for a
moment the idea of ??extension, and notice that it is impossible
to take a step.

The examples given in the preceding paragraphs to test the second proposition, other explanations
are useless.

[26.] The extension, though essentially composed of parts, has, however, something fixed, unchanged,
and somewhat simple. There are more or less extensive but not different species it. A straight line
is more or less long than the other, but not long in different ways.

A flat surface will be greater or less than another, but not differently. A volume of a particular class
will be greater or less than another of the same species, but not differences way.

When we say that the idea of ??the extension taken objectively, there is some sort of simplicity,
not meant to be a simple thing entirely, because that adds to its object is essentially composed,
nor is it to disregard the essential elements complete, which are the three dimensions, or another
idea that also engages in it, that is, their ability to be limited
in several ways, or its limited, only about to note that all figures
are enough differences in these fundamentals, which in itself is never
changed, they always offer to our understanding the same thing.

Compare a line with a curve. The line is an address constant. The curve is one direction always
varied. What is an address provided varied? a set of directions straight infinitely small. Thus
the circle is considered as a polygon infinite sides. Then, with the single variety of directions,
reduced to infinitesimal values, curve is formed.

This theory explains the difference of right to the curved, it is obviously applicable to surfaces
and volumes.

Compare a ring with a pentagon: What's in the second that is not the first? one hand but on
the perimeter and in the area, the space formed by the triangle by diagonal shot from an angle
to another immediately. But the lines are of different species one
and another?

Are the surfaces themselves are distinguished, but by being terminated from differently? Not. What is
the termination? Not the same limitation?

Then the essential extension of the idea, namely, direction and boundaries,
always remain unchanged.

This intrinsic fixity is indispensable to science: the mutable, may be subject to perception, but
not of scientific perception.

CHAPTER IV.

FACT OF THE EXTENSION.

[27.] Let us go on other issues more difficult. Does the extension itself, regardless the idea is
something? if anything, what is it? Do you identify with the body? Is your essence? Is it the same
as the space?

I have shown (Lib. II. Cap. IX.) Extension that exists outside of us: it is not a pure illusion
of our senses, and is therefore resolved the first question: namely, if the extension is something.

Whatever
its nature, whatever it is our ignorance on this point, is in reality something that corresponds
to our idea of ??extension.

Whoever denies this truth, need to be resigned to deny everything, except the consciousness
of itself, if also do not try to raise doubts about it. Say what you idealists, there is not,
nor has there been no sane man who has seriously doubted the existence of an external world: This
conviction is a necessity for man, against whom forcejaria in vain.

The outside world is to us inseparable from what it represents to us the idea of ??extension: or
does not exist or is extensive. If we are persuaded that he is not extensive, it is not difficult to
convince that does not exist. For my part, find much difficulty in conceiving the world without
extension and without life: when he believed that his extension is a pure illusion, would think no
work nor is more than illusion its very existence.

[28.] And it is noteworthy that although there is no difficulty in granting that ignore the
nature close of the extension, however it must be acknowledged as we know it something: ie dimensions,
and serves as a basis for geometry. For so the difficulty is not to know what the extension is
considered geometrically, but what is in reality. The geometric essence we know it: but we
need to know if this same essence done is something else to be confused with real, or if a property
is only known to us, know without being to which it belongs. Without this distinction, we would
deny the basis of geometry it is evident that if we knew the essence of the extension as aforesaid,
no sure whether we would build it on the air, when we raise the idea of ??extension whole science
of geometry.

[29.] Thus, under this aspect, we are also confident that the extension exists outside of us who are
true dimensions. This idea comes from the world's need external as we said above, and the dimensions
on the outside, must be subject to the same principles that we think, otherwise subverted the very
idea that we formed the external world, and I mean not a real circle can be a circle geometry,
but that he has verified that this, in proportion to the increased or less accurately with
ever built, and that beyond the scope of the instruments most perfect
and delicate, I can imagine in the very reality of things a circle
or other As figure that approaches the idea you want to geometric.

The finest art not point never an indivisible point, and draw a line without any latitude but
on the same surface where the trace is infinite divisibility, to my mind can conceive it one case,
in which reality is infinitely close to the geometric idea.

[30.] La astronomy and physical sciences all lie on the assumption that the extension real,
is subject to the same principles as the ideal, and that experience
is so close more to the theory, the more accurately fulfilled in the
first conditions of the second.

The art of constructing the mathematical tools, today led to a perfection
amazing, look also the ideal order, as the real rate, and progress
in this, is the approximation to the models offered him.

The theory directs the operations of the practice, and these in turn confirms the result expected
from theory. Then the extension exists not only in the ideal order, but also in real, then the
extension is something, regardless of our ideas, then geometry, the vast representation of a
world of lines and figures, has a real object in nature.

How come the correspondence of the real and ideal? This will examine the next chapter.

CHAPTER V.

GEOMETRIC ACCURACY IN NATURE MADE.

[31.] The disagreement we noticed between the phenomena and geometrical theories, leads us to
believe that reality is rude, and that the purity and accuracy are only in our ideas. This is a
mistaken view that comes from lack of meditation. The reality is so geometric and our ideas
of geometry there is performed, in all its purity, in all its rigor in all its accuracy. No
wonder the reader of this paradox: either soon convinced that this paradox is a proposition very
rational, very real, very well founded.

Above all it should prove that the ideas which are the elements of geometry, have actually existing
objects, subject to the same conditions as these, without any difference. If we show this
can easily infer the geometry in all its rigor, there is not only in the order of ideas, but also
in the facts.

[32.] Let's start point. In the ideal order, the point is an indivisible thing, limit line, a generator
of it, and it occupies a particular place in space.

Limit line, because irrespective of any length, we reached the point, who, to avoid we fade
completely or reduce us to a pure nothing, losing the understanding every object, we need to consider
it as a term of the line which is, as shortens, it is about continuous,
but may not ever come to him, while conserving length.

Generator of the line for when we want to form an idea of ??dimension linear, we consider the
point in motion. The occupation of particular place in space is another essential condition for
the idea of ??the point, whether to serve in geometric figures. The center of the circle is a
point: in itself is indivisible, does not fill any space, but if it is to serve as a center,
it is necessary that we refer to all radios, to this needs to occupy a specific position, equidistant
from the points of the circle. In general, the geometry required dimensions, and these are necessary
starting points, through which pass, in ending, and with respect
to which measure the distances, inclinations and all that relates
to the position of lines and planes, none of this could be conceived
if the point, but unextended, unoccupied in space a particular location.

[33.]

Is there something in nature that corresponds to the geometric point, which satisfies all conditions
as accurately as you can desire of science in its purest idealism? I yes.

In considering the arcane philosophers divisibility of matter, have adopted different opinions. One states
that there unextended points where the division is completed, and that all compounds are formed.
The other says that it is impossible to reach items simple, but the
division can be carried to infinity, moving continuously the limit
of composition, which however can not be achieved.

The first of these views an admission made geometric points, the second, but does not seem so favorable
to this realization, is to stop it.

Unextended molecules are the geometric point made, in all its accuracy. Are limit the dimension,
for in them end the division, are a generator of the dimension, They therefore that the extension
form, occupying a particular place in space, for which of these bodies
form with all its determinations in the same space.

Then, sticking to this opinion, professed by such eminent philosophers such as Leibnitz and Boscowich,
it appears that the geometric point exists in nature with all the accuracy of a scientific nature.

The
opinion that denies the existence of unextended points, admits, however, and must support by
necessity, to the infinite divisibility. The length is over, then there is the division between them,
these sides at the same time, or are extended or unextended, if unextended, is needed to course
and support the opinion of unextended points, if extensive, are susceptible to division, and
thus it is necessary or become indivisible points or continue the division until the infinity.

He
noted that this opinion, although clearly not as favorable as the
other, to the existence actual geometric points, finally coming to
recognize this accomplishment.

The parties that divide the compound is not made with pre-existing division but to the division,
for that this is possible is necessary that the parties exist, they exist, not because they can
divide, but you can split them because they exist. This opinion is therefore not explicitly
supported existence of unextended points, but admits he can walk all over them forever, not
only in the ideal order but also in real, for the divisibility no
claims of ideas, but of matter itself.

Congratulations to our experience have a limit on the division, but the divisibility itself
is not a being endowed with more resources than we could bring more division there, on this
scale there are no limits, then as a last resort where we are with God infinite power division
can lead to infinity, as seen in Infinite Intelligence an instant all those parts that would
make the division.

Now, regardless of the difficulties that are subject to an opinion which seems to assume the existence
of that which refuses, ask if all the geometric accuracy may require more rigorously than is
in the points which would come to the almighty infinite consider
exercising divider action for all eternity, or in other terms, parts
seen by the infinite intelligence in an infinitely divisible.

This does not only satisfies our imagination and our ideas with regard to accuracy, but seems
to go beyond what they achieved. Experience teaches us that to imagine a point unextended it
is impossible: and to think in purely intellectual, is no more than conceive the possibility of
the infinite divisibility suddenly placed in the final analysis: certainly end is still far from
that in which the set, not the abstraction, but the vision of infinite
intelligence.

If there is a geometric point, there is a geometric line, which is no more than a series of
unextended points, or if we are not recognizing this quality, a series of extremes to which
the division is about continuing to infinity.

The set of geometric lines form surfaces, that of these the solid line being found, and in nature and
in its formation, the real order of the ideal.

[34.] This theory of geometry made, embraces all the sciences that aim to nature. When one says
for example that the reality does not correspond exactly to the theories of mechanics, it comes with
a lot of impropriety: it should say rather that it is not reality that fails, but the means
to experience, what is attributed to the fact should be attributed to the limitation of our
experience.

The center of gravity on a body is the point at which converge all
the forces of gravitation found in the same body.

The mechanics of this point is indivisible, and under to such a case, establishes and proves
his theorems and poses and solves their problems. Here the mechanical stops and starts the driver,
which in practice can not ever find that rigorous center of gravity, of course in theory. Discuerdan
operations of principles; and it is necessary to correct them away
from what these prescribed. Why? Is that the nature there is no center
of gravity with all the accuracy that science is? not; center exists,
it is not he missing, but the means to find him. Nature is so there
like science, neither left behind: what can not follow them are our
media experience.

The mechanic determined that indivisible point
is the center of gravity, assuming surface without thickness, lines
without breadth, and length divided into a designated point in space,
but without any extension. A satisfies these conditions dutifully
nature: point exists, and not really to blame for the limitation of
our experience