 

Was closed and sealed with wax.

Recognized in the Earl overwritten with amazement the letter from Don Braulio.

Count opened the letter, but not enough anxiety, and trembling hands and haggard face, read as follows:

"Sir
Count, I could not serve in the world but a hindrance. When you receive these items the obstacle
no longer exist.

That conscience forgive those who have made me suffer, as I forgive.

"

- Where have you found this letter? - Asked the Count.

The carrier said it:

- In the pocket of a man who threw a half hour ago to head for the
Viaduct Segovia Street.

We do not know who he is. You, Count, tell us the name of the deceased.

- Don Braulio Gonzalez - Count Alhedín said.

When Beatrice knew her husband's death, her grief touched on the edge of despair; but not raised
him for it.

Ines was well-nigh hopeless.

The Count, remorseful for all those miseries, strove to comfort Agnes: everything seemed little
to comfort her. He overcame opposition from his mother, who did not
like marriage so unequal, and Ines, a year after Don Braulio died,
was Countess of Alhedín.

Paco, who had been deceived in his hopes, he said on that occasion:

-
Ines, not to be coldly calculating, has achieved the cold calculation
that had not got anything: it is true that to achieve this, it has
been necessary to don Braulio mate.

More than two years he lived Beatrice, a widow, with the most profound and sincere grief in the soul.

He
retired to his birthplace, where life was exemplary and typical of a saint.

In memory of Don Braulio yielded true worship.

That kiss, that while he was asleep jealous and she gave Don Braulio, rather than kill, as I
thought, I felt it in the depths of heart and spirit spread its soft and pure melancholy.

The modesty and recollection of Dona Beatriz did you spend very little on his person, and is that
on many, in proportion to its short finances, and everything works
consumed charity.

Paco Ramírez, witnessed all this, and one person who saw Dona Beatriz in her solitude, eventually
fall in love madly.

We have seen how sensitive he was Dona Beatriz to her fall in love.
First, thanks.

Later it fought against the memory of Don Braulio a rising slope.

Finally, poor Beatriz was not bronze, after more than two years, love memories new beat Old love.

Paco and Betty were married, and wiped with kisses Paco, who wakes Beatriz gave the impression
apparently indelible kiss so poetic that she had been asleep.

Paco, something recelosillo, as a good villager, was careful not
to take to Madrid Beatriz, no The devil did it wanted Condesito again
that he loved her seraphic.

This and his wife followed the court
always be paragons of elegance.

Ines, then spent time quietly mused
about Don Braulio and his death explained in a manner satisfactory
to it.

Don Braulio had committed suicide because he was gloomy in
character, because he had less religion a horse, because he was desperate
to be ugly and weak, because he had committed the imprudence of marrying
young and beautiful woman, because she had a ridiculous commitment
be worshiped, and because the love that was not for lack of faith
to the things of heaven, had put in some finite worldly and did not
deserve it, and endeavor to take this idol of quality and excellence
that only supernatural beings agree.

In short, Ines was evident that
the best thing for Don Braulio could have done was kill himself. 

We
do not think I had great learning Inesita classic, but if he had,
had repeated about Don Braulio, a verse, it seems that Homer, who
say they declaimed Scipio to learn the death of Caius Gracchus, his
nephew, and that bad and worse prose romance plays well, perish as
he who imitates his example.

FI