 

A ray of sun shone on the diagonal and between restless spots on the sole window of the attic and
illuminated part of the sad, empty room. In this ray of sunshine was shining hair the girl
as if crowned by a halo of fire. There, with his huge wrist between the knees and sitting
on the floor, seemed to speak and quickly understand Lady Clara which reproduced the interview
occurred a few moments ago. Severely reprimanded wrist inquiring about the length of stay at home
and on the measurement day and weeks. Correctly imitated the ways of Madame de Galba and conversation
about literally reproduced above, with one difference. After he had informed Doll was not his
mother, and completed the interview, he said affectionately: "What if Stork was very, very
Stork, would be his mom and give her a kiss. "

The moody fugitive, this scene struck very unpleasantly, and the conclusion made dyed her cheeks
with rouge. It's unfurnished room, half-light, the monstrous Doll, whose size seemed almost natural
to give your pathetic lack of spoken language, weakness the only animated figure of the table, affected
the sensibilities of women and the poet's imagination. In this situation, could not take advantage
of the feeling and thought of the beautiful poem that could be plotted with those materials,
if the room had was darker and more deserted the child was, for example, sitting beside the
coffin his mother while the wind moaned through the doors and windows. Suddenly he heard footsteps
on the porch and recognized the staff of Colonel noise echoing through the floor.

He jumped quickly up the stairs and found the colonel in the hallway, lacking time to voluble
and exaggerated to make the story of his discovery and his angry relationship grievances.

- Oh! Do not say that entanglement is not already fixed in advance, knowing that it was! - Said loudly .--
And judge - he added - the heart of the infamous, who abandons his own daughter, in a way so
inhuman.

- It is a solemn impudence! - Stammered the colonel no idea what he was saying.

Unable to find a reason for the exaltation of their idol and to understand its nature, I did
not know what attitude to take.

He stammered, gasped, began serious, gallant, tender, but in a way so foolish and incomprehensible
that Lady Clara experienced the painful question that was in its perfect trial.

- No go - the lady said with sudden energy Galba replying to a comment made whispered the colonel,
and removing his hand from the pressure vehement passionate man .--
It useless, my decision is already taken.

You are free to send in my bag as soon as want, but I'll stay here to put face to face with this
man the evidence of their infamy. He'll face to face with his villain proceed.

I am convinced that Colonel Roberto did not appreciate the full value of the convincing evidence
of infidelity and perversion charged and proved to the evidence given
by the hostel Galba's daughter in his own home. However, Entrol at
once as a premonition vague that an unexpected obstacle was opposed
to the perfect realization of the wishes of his romantic spirit