 

He took some land near Sagunto: dry fields, red and eternally thirsty in which twisted its ancient
carob hollow trees or olive trees raised their powdered round heads.

His life was a continuous battle with drought, a continuing look at the sky, trembling with emotion
whenever a small black cloud looming on the horizon.

Little rain, the crops were bad for four years, and Batiste did not know what to do or where
to go, when on a trip to Valencia met the sons of Don Salvador, a great masters (God bless),
who gave that beauty of fields, free lease for two years until they
completely regain their status of other times.

Something he heard what had happened in the cabin, the causes that force the owners so beautiful to
keep unproductive land, but after going so long!

... In addition, misery has no ears, he suited to the fields, and they left. What mattered old
stories of Don Salvador and Barret? ...

Forgot everything despised and contemplating their land. And Batiste felt himself possessed
of a sweet Ecstasy to be fertile orchard grower had so often envied when he passed the road from
Valencia to Sagunto.

That was land, evergreen, with the entrails of a crop breeding tireless after another, circling the red
water at all hours as life-giving blood for the many ditches and
sprinklers that plied its surface as a complex network of veins and
arteries fertile to feed whole families with tables, so small, they
seemed scarves foliage.

Sagunto dry fields recordábalos thirsty as hell, which fortunately had escaped.

Now he was really on track. Business The fields were lost, was there much to do, but when you have
good will ... And stretching, the big man strong, muscular back of a giant, round head and a
kindly face sustained sheared by a thick neck, a monk, extending
his powerful arms, lifted her accustomed to sacks of flour and the
heavy skins of the cart.

So concerned was their land, who barely noticed the curious neighbors.

The restless heads poking among cañares or lying on his stomach on the slopes, Men stared at
him, little boys and even women of the barracks immediately. Batiste
did ignore them.

It was the curiosity, expectation always inspire hostile newcomers. He knew what that was,
and would be accustomed.

Also, maybe they were interested see how poverty burned ten years of neglect had heaped upon
the fields of Barret.

And helped by his wife and children, began to burn a day after his arrival the whole parasitic vegetation.

Shrubs,
after writhing in the flames, embers fell facts, escaping from their nasty bugs charred ashes.
The hut appeared to be blurred between the clouds smoke of lamps,
which aroused anger deaf throughout the garden.

Once clean the land, Batiste, without wasting time, proceeded to its cultivation. Were harsh; but
he, as an expert farmer, wanted to work slowly, in sections, and setting a box near his hut,
he began to remove the help of his family land.

Neighbors burlábanse them all with an irony that betrayed his irritation. Go a family! They were
gypsies and those who sleep under bridges. They lived in the old barracks the same as shipwrecked
on a ship wrecked endure: plugging a hole here shoring up there, doing real wonders that would
hold up the thatch, distributing its poor furniture, carefully fregoteados in all rooms, which were
before burrowing mice and bugs.

In point of time-consuming, were like a herd of squirrels, unable to sit still while the father
worked.

Teresa Rosetta women and the eldest daughter, with her skirts gathered between legs and spade
in hand, digging more ardently than a laborer, resting only to turn
back by the hair falling on the red sweaty face.

The eldest son was continuous Valencia travel to the basket on his shoulder, carrying manure
and debris, placed in two piles, like columns of honor, at the entrance
of the building.

The three little ones, serious and laborious, as if they understood the plight of the family,
went to all fours after diggers, tearing lumps of hard burned shrub roots.

This preparatory task lasted more than a week, sweating and panting
family from dawn till night.

Half of the land was removed.

Batiste filed and styled with the help of the old and spirited horse, which seemed to the family.

Had
to come to his crop, were in San Martin, the time of sowing and the
farmer cleared land divided into three parts.

The higher in wheat, a smaller frame for beans and other plant for fodder, it was not something
to forget the Morrut, the good old nag. Well it had won.

And with the joy of that after a laborious navigation discover the port, the family proceeded to
planting. The future was assured. The lands of the garden did not
deceive, hence would bread for the whole year.

The afternoon saw the planting was completed by the immediate way forward a few sheep of dirty fleece,
fearful that they stopped at the edge of the field.

Behind them came an old parchment, yellow, eyes sunken in the deep orbits and mouth surrounded
by a halo of wrinkles. Progressed slowly, with steps firm, but with
the staff ahead of testing the waters.

The family looked at him intently. Was the only one in the two weeks that there were dared to approach
the land. Noting the hesitation of his sheep, he shouted for them to go forward.

Batiste went to meet the old. Could not happen: the lands are now cultivated. Did not you know?
...

Some of it had heard the old Tomba, but in the past two weeks had
led his flock to graze the weeds in the cliff of Carraixet, without
worrying about these fields .... Really now they were grown?

And the old shepherd moved his head to make efforts to see with their
eyes almost dead bold man who dared to do what all the garden was
as impossible.

He paused a while, and finally began to murmur sadly

"Too bad, he also, in his youth he had been dared: he liked to wear
them all the opposite.

But when too many enemies ... Too bad, she had gone into a difficult step. Those land, after
the poor Barret, were cursed.

I could believe him, that was old and experienced, would bring misfortune.

"

And the pastor called his herd, to march him down the road, and before leaving threw the blanket
back, raising his emaciated arms, and some chanting wizard that predicts the future or a prophet
who sniffs the ruin, he shouted to Batiste:

- Creume, fill meu: desgrasia will carry you !...[ 4]

[4] - Believe
me, my son will bring disgrace!

...

From this meeting arose another reason for anger to the entire garden. Tomba's uncle could no longer
put the sheep on that land, after ten years of peaceful enjoyment of their pastures.

Nobody said a word about the legitimacy of the refusal of the occupant to be the ground cultivated.
All spoke only of the respect he deserved the old minister, a man
that in his youth, the French ate raw, who had seen much of the world,
and whose wisdom, demonstrated average incoherent words and advice,
inspired a superstitious respect to the people of the barracks.

When Batiste and his family were drenched fertile seed the bowels of their land, thought of housing,
lack of work more urgent.

The field would do his duty. It was time to think about themselves.

And for the first time since his arrival in the orchard, land Batiste left to go to Valencia to
charge your car every scrap of the city that might be useful.

The man was a tireless ant to search for it. The mounds formed by Batistet widened considerably with
the father's expeditions.

The hump of manure, which was a shade defensively to the hut, grew rapidly, and beyond hundreds amontonáronse
of bricks, rotting timbers, broken doors, windows made chips, all demolition waste in the city.

People
watched in amazement how quickly the garden and good skill of industrious
hackers to fix your home.

The thatched roof of the cabin was suddenly straightened, the ribs of the roof eaten away by
the rains, were reinforced and substituted some other, a layer of
fresh straw covered the remaining two planes abroad.

Even the little crosses on the ends were substituted by others that worked cucamente Batiste knife,
decorating its edges with jagged notches, and there was all round roof that they stood more graceful.

The
neighbors, seeing how reformed Barrett's cabin, standing straight cap, saw in this bit of fun
and challenge.

Then began the work below. What a way to use the rubble of Valencia! ... Cracks disappeared, and
finished plaster walls, the wife and daughter the whitewashed dazzling
white.

The new door and painted blue, it seemed the mother of all windows, poking through the holes
in the walls its square faces of the same color.

Under the vine Batiste made a square, paved with red bricks, for
women to sew there in the afternoon.

Well, after a grueling week of declines and carries, was cleared of all stones and rubbish that
the rascals had crowded orchard for ten years, and again its clean, fresh water rose again in mossy
pail with cheerful chirps of the wheel, which seemed to laugh at people with a raucous contour
old mischievous laugh.

Neighbors devouring rage in silence. Thief, rather than a thief! What a way to work! ... The man
seemed to have with their brawny arms two magic wands that transform all at the touch.

Ten weeks after his arrival, had not yet left their lands half a dozen
times.

Always on them, his head between his shoulders and his spine bent, intoxicated in their work,
and Barrett's cabin had a flirtatious and cheerful appearance, as never had been held by its
former occupier.

The yard, surrounded with rotten hurdles before, now had poles and mud walls, painted white on the
edges of chickens running around the blonde and inflamed the rooster,
straightening purple head .... In the square, opposite the barracks,
beds blooming dompedro and vines.

A row of pots painted blue chipped pots served on the bank of red bricks, and through the open
door - ah, blowhard - there was the Cantarera new white sheets with tiles and green jars belly
pan, a set insolent glare and took the view that once ran through the road.

All in his fury rising, went to Pimento. Could this be pampered? What did make Pepeta the terrible
husband?

And Pimento scratched his face listening to them, with some confusion.

What was I going to do?

... Its purpose was to say two little words to that upstart that was brought to cultivate what
was not theirs, a very serious indication that "it was not stupid"
and again his land, because there had nothing to do.

But this subject did not come out of their fields, and not thing was going to threaten him
at home.

This would "give the body" too, taking consider what might happen
next.

Had to be cautious and save the output.

Anyway ... a little patience. Him, all I could say is that this subject would not reap the wheat,
and beans, and all that was planted in the fields of Barret. That would be for the devil.

Pimento reassuring words to the neighbors, and they continued with
the watchful eye Progress of the goddam family, wishing silently that
soon came when his ruin.

One afternoon he returned Batiste of Valencia, very happy with the results of his trip. I did not
want to arm home pointless. Batistet, when there was work in the field, sought occupation
going into the city to collect manure. There was the girl, a Bouncers that arrangement ended
the cabin, no good for much, and thanks to the protection of the
children of Don Salvador showed that thrilled with the new tenant
just to get that support it in a silk factory.

From the next day, Rosetta would be part of the string of girls, waking up dawn, going through
all the paths with flowing skirt and the basket to the arm path the
city, to spin the silken cocoon between his thick fingers of daughters
of the garden.

Batiste Arriving to the vicinity of the tavern Cup, a man appeared
on the road leaving a trail immediately and marched him slowly, giving
to understand their desire talk.

Batiste was stopped inside regretting not carrying not a bad knife or a sickle, but serene,
tranquil, rearing its head round the expression so feared by pressing his family and across
the chest the arms of former strongman mill boy.

Known to man, although he had never spoken with him.

Pimento was.

At last the encounter occurred had feared.

The bully was measured with a look at the hated intruder, and spoke with honeyed voice, striving
to give his ferocity and malice in a tone of kindly advice.

I wanted to tell you two reasons: it had long wanted, but how to do it, if you never left from
their land?

- Two rahonetes not més ... [5]

[5] - Two razoncitas nothing more ...

And let the couple of reasons,
advising him to leave as soon as the land of Barret.

Must believe the men who loved him well, to those familiar with the customs of the garden. His
presence there was an offense, and the cabin almost new an insult to the poor people. There to
follow his advice and go elsewhere with his family.

Batiste Pimento smiled ironically as he spoke, and he, at last, seemed confused by the serenity
of the intruder, shocked to find a man who felt no fear in his presence.

"" Leaving it? ... There was cute to make him abandon what was his, which was watered with their
sweat and had to give bread to his family. He was a peaceful man, are we? but if you seek
out tickles, was as brave as they come. Everyone that gets into your business, and he would rather
meet with him without offending anyone. "

Then, past the bully, went his way, turning away with a confidence derogatory.

Pimento, accustomed to him tremble all the garden, looked increasingly puzzled by the serenity of
Batiste.

- Is the Darrera paraula [6] - he cried when he was already at a distance.

[6]

- Is the last word?

- Yes, the Darrera - Batiste replied without turning.

And went ahead, disappearing around a turn of the road.

Far away, in the former barracks Barrett, sniffing dog barked near his master.

When left alone, Pimento regained its pride. "Christ! And how he had taunted him Uncle! "muttered
some curses and threatening a fist pointed curve of the road where he had gone Batiste.

- You will pay me .... I will pay, backpack!

In his voice trembling with anger, hatred vibrated condensed all of the garden.

IV

It was Thursday, and according to a custom dating back five centuries, the Tribunal de las Aguas
was to meet at the door of the Apostles of the Cathedral of Valencia.

The clock tower pointing Miguelete called a little after ten, and
juntábanse huertanos in little groups or were seated on the edge of
the bowl of the font that adorns the plaza, forming around the glass
a vibrant garland of blue and white blankets, scarves red and yellow
calico skirts or light colors.

Came about pulling his nag with pannier full of manure, content of sampling on the streets, others
in their empty cars, trying to soften the guards municipal dejasen them stay there, and while
conversing with the old women, young people went into the nearest
cafe to kill time before the cup brandy, mumbling his cigar three
cents.

All orchard that avenge wrongs had was there, grinning and
frowning, talking their rights, eager to drop to the trustees or judges
of the seven judges the endless litany of complaints.

Court bailiffs,
who had more than fifty years of struggle with this troop insolent
and aggressive, placed under the shade of the arched cover parts of
old damask sofa, and tended then a low fence, closing the sidewalk
space was to serve as room hearing.

The door of the Apostles, old,
red, eaten for centuries, spreading their gnawed beauties to sunlight,
was a fund worth of the old court was like a canopy stone shelter
built for an institution than five centuries.

In the tympanum the
Virgin appeared six angels with rigid wings often dawns and plumage
chubby, with flaming toupee and heavy curls, playing viola and flutes,
reeds and drums. Running through the three arches superimposed on
the cover three wreaths of figurines, angels, kings and saints, canopies
sheltering in drafts. On sturdy pedestals exhibíanse the twelve apostles,
but so disfigured, so battered, that I had not known Jesus foot gnawed,
broken noses, hands cut off, a row of dummies, which more than apostles
seemed ill escaped from a clinic reports showing painfully dies. Above,
at the end of the cover, opened, like a gigantic flower wire cover,
escutcheon of colors that gave light to the church, and on the floor
at the base of the columns adorned with coats of Aragon, the stone
was worn edges and blurred by the foliage friction of countless generations.

In
this wear on the cover guessed the passage of the revolt and mutiny.
Alongside these had gathered stones and confused an entire people
there were busy in other centuries, screaming and red with rage, the
Valencianism rebellious, and the saints of the cover, mutilated and
smooth as Egyptian mummies, to look at the sky with broken heads,
seemed to be listening even revolutionary union campaign or the gunshot
of the Germanies.

He finished the sheriff court and plantóse fix
at the entrance of the gate, waiting to the judges.

Iban came and
solemn, with the majesty of rich peasants, dressed in black, white
sandals and silk handkerchief under the broad hat. Each carried behind
a procession of ditch guards of beggars before the time of seeking
justice bias the mind of the court in their favor.

The peasant folk
look with respect to these judges come out of his class, whose deliberations
admitted no appeal. They were the masters of water in his hands was
the life of families, the food of the fields, irrigation, timely,
lack of which kills the harvest. And the people the extensive river
valley cut by the nurturer, as a bristling barbed spine were his channels
to the judges designated by the name of the canals they represented.

A
dry old man, hunched, whose red hands trembling and covered with scales
to rely on arch thickness was Faitanar room, the other large and majestic,
with eyes that just if they were under the two handfuls of white hair
of his eyebrows, was Mislata, shortly after arriving Rascaño, a young
man of ironed shirt and lay round head, and behind them were performing
others, up to seven: Favara, Robella, Tormos and Mestalla.

Was there
representing the two valleys: the left of the river, the four ditches,
which encloses the garden paths Ruzafa with lush foliage that go to
extinct within the limits of the Albufera lake and the valley to the
right of the Turia, the poetic the Benimaclet strawberries, groundnuts
Alboraya and lush gardens are always flowers