 Then, shrugging his lips and making a slight sneer, turned around
and started to leave the room. Osorio took a few steps standing between her and the door.

- Before you go I want you to know that the cashier has orders not to pay any receipt that is
not be endorsed by me.

- Aware.

- For your expenses have a fixed
amount, which will determine what must be.

I do not want more surprises in the box.

Clementina, who was to walk out the door of the antechamber, drew back from doing so by the
her boudoir. Before he disappeared, having lifted the portiere with one hand and facing with
her husband, told with concentrated wrath

- The end result a pig as your brother, just check it like you do
not generous.

He dropped the portiere and gave a big bang.

Osorio made a motion to throw behind it, but instantly recovering cried more than he said to hear
it well:

- Of course!

I'm a pig because they want to keep hungry gentlemen.

That kept The use of old!

After uttering this ferocity was apparently satisfied, because his lips were drawn a triumphant
smile and sarcasm.

Five minutes later both spouses were in the room laughing and joking
with the three four guests they had.

IV

# How virtue encouraged the Duke of Requena. #

Let's see, see, explains why.

- Sir Duke, business is clear. Today I talked to Regnault. The mine can produce, changing ovens,
built some roads and establishing machinery to purpose, a more than half currently pays. Can
produce sixty thousand flasks of quicksilver. The money needed to achieve this does not happen a
hundred to one hundred fifty thousand dollars.

- I think a lot.

- A lot, for a result like that?

- No, I think many bottles.

- Well, I do not doubt that is true what he says Regnault. It's a smart engineer and practical.
Six years has been exploiting those of California. In addition, the English engineer has gone
with him says the same thing.

Those who spoke were the Duke and Requena and his secretary, chief clerk or whatever called,
since the house was designated nickname for him. Llamábasele simply Llera. He was a fellow Spaniard,
tall, skinny, pale, angular face, arms and legs very long, large hands and feet, sudden gestures
and lanky with big eyes looking at ex- where bright and sincere will and intelligence. He
was a tireless worker, amazing. It was not known what time he ate
or slept.

When I arrived at eight o'clock to the desktop, brought and made the task of any man in all day.
At twelve o'clock he was still I could see many times with the pen in his hand in his office.
With the special talent to know men, who have all to be happy succeed in the world, Salabert
penetrated shortly after having him for lowest clerk, character and intelligence Llera. Y without
giving serious consideration in appearance, because this is not ever entered into his conduct
is actually gave it accumulated on the work of more importance. In short time he be the henchman
of the famous speculator, the soul of the house. His industriousness humiliated all other
employees and she served Salabert workloads in hours exceptional. Llera, at the same time, it was
his secretary, his general foreman, the first his official office, the inspector of works was under
construction and almost Agent all its businesses. By carrying out this work inconceivable, beyond
the strength of four men fairly laborious, gave him six thousand pesetas a year. The clerk was
felt well paid, we felt happy thinking that just six years ago, won a thousand hundred. Every
day, before his morning walk and take their business visits, Duke gave a tour of the office
Llera, learned of the issues and talking with it a long or short according to circumstances.

The Duke had the highest offices of his palace Luchana ride, superb building up in the middle of
a garden, so large, deserved the name of the park. In the summer,
trees, lush foliage, leaving only see the white crests of the roof.

In the winter, many conifers and leafy shrubs that grew there permanently, still gave very pleasing
appearance. It was the gathering of all the birds of the district's Hospice. Had access to a
large marble staircase. In addition the ground floor where they were the receiving rooms and the
dining room had two. Part of the latter was what occupied the offices,
which were not very significant.

A Salabert was sufficient for the conduct of their business with
a dozen skilled employees.

The luxury displayed in the house was amazing: the furniture worth more than a few million.
Clashed with greed, everyone attributed to its owner.

This and other similar contradictions will be resolved as we go penetrating in character, one
of the most curious and most worthy of setting the reader's attention. The kitchens were in basements,
which were spacious and well arranged. The dining room, which occupied the rear the ground floor,
was to add an exceptionally large greenhouse where they grew large number of shrubs and exotic
flowers and where the water was flowing profusely estanquecillos and very pleasing to see waterfalls,
all imitating, if possible, to nature. The blocks were in separate building at the end of the
garden, as well as some servants' room, not everyone.

The Duke, lounging on the only chair that was in the office Llera, while it kept standing in
front of him spinning in the hand of a big scissors cut paper, walked
three or four times from one angle to another of her mouth and wet
black cigar unanswered the last words of his secretary.

At last he grunted more than he said

- Hum!

The minister is becoming more stubborn.

- Who cares!

Do not you know the secret of giving him?

... Liverpool telegraph you and fifteen days before the bottle of quicksilver down from sixty
to forty dollars.

The Duke of Requena had formed on the initiative and advice Llera, for four years, quicksilver
company or union in order to capture all the mercury they release
it on the market.

As a result, this product had risen dramatically. The company was
to a huge deposit in Liverpool.

Llera plan was released in a given time producing a huge low frightened the government. This, held
at the same time payment of the loan of one hundred million pesetas that the Government had
made ten years ago to a foreign company, would push him think about selling mine rivers. If on the
other hand helped the company will sacrifice a few million, subsidizing newspapers and characters
could be assured success. This plan, consisting of Llera and matured by the Duke, came unfolding
regularly and was coming to an end.

- There shall see - said the wealthy banker and was some thoughtful moments -. When go to auction
- said after - it will be necessary to form another company. Of quicksilver we do not served
for the case.

- Of course it will be!

- The fact is that I do not want to compromise in this business more than eight million pesetas.

-
That's another thing - getting serious Llera said -. Grab a business that entity with so little money
it seems impossible.

Management will go into other hands and then is reduced to a percentage higher or lower ....
Ie, nothing!

- True, true - again remaining Salabert mumbled in deep thought. Llera also remained silent and
thoughtful.

- I have already indicated to you the only way is to get the address ....

This medium was to take a fair amount of shares flood the mine to be purchased by society to keep
buying all that could be and then start selling them cheap, until you get to produce panic among
shareholders. Buying and selling lost during some time this was the means proposed for achieving
low Llera actions and to acquire a lot less money in half and take more of a business altogether.
Salabert not see it as clear as his secretary. It was his keen intelligence, thorough, penetrating,
but lacked grandeur and initiative in business, but another thing thought those who saw him
undertake enterprises of exceptional importance. The primary thought, the we might call the mother
of a business idea, almost never born in his brain, he came from outside. But it germinated
and developed perhaps as nowhere else in Spain. Little little was analyzing, dissecting better, penetrated
to every fiber, watching him in its many aspects, and once convinced it would bring benefits, was
thrown on rare and surprising him with boldness. This was what about his skills had speculator
occurrence of the deception of the public. I was quite convinced that once resolved to undertake
the company was damaging any hesitation. Such boldness was not appropriate, therefore, directly
of his temperament, but of reflection. It was a sign of his cunning incomparable.

Moreover, his background was shy. This defect, instead of happiness almost corrected never interrupted
their successes, increased every day. Greed is fearful and suspicious. Salabert was becoming greedy.
In addition, over the years, the pessimism in the spirit penetrates
man.

Used to great results in their speculations, our banker judged Business deplorable that not receiving
huge profits. If by chance did not get any or had mild loss, thought the case worthy of long lamented.
So no contest Llera, without his daring character and imagination fertile in invention, the Duke
of Requena time and would not venture into a business of medium importance. Instead, what
lost inventive and daring Tell them replaced by a truly tact and skill breathtaking, a knowledge
of men, only age and constant attention can accomplish. In this sense we can say that he Llera
and wonderfully completed. This wisdom and this knowledge of human nature came in to sin of excessive
Salabert, ie spent Ready at times. In his dealings with men, watching them always on the side
of interest materials, had come to form their idea so sad that it
was monstrous and exposed to serious mishaps.

Perhaps he saw in others was not only a reflection of their own image as it happens to all
humans. For him there was no man or woman incorruptible. A little bit more expensive or cheaper
consciences, all were sold. In recent Bribery years it became a hobby. If faced with people who
are not let buy never imagined that they did in good faith, but because they felt a greater price
than offered. It was one of the heaviest tasks Llera tore his projects bribery when accruing
to men who no doubt had to reject with indignation.

If he had a lawsuit, the first thing I thought was going to cost much money the judges who had
failure. If you were interested in a gubernatorial record, separated in mind the amount to be
directed to the Minister or the directors or secretary of state. Unfortunately This black pencil
that had always on hand to smudge the face of humanity, was used with positive results on many
occasions.

The Duke of Requena and moral sense and never had known. His life of anonymous rogue in Valencia,
was marked by a series of silly pranks and tricks for fertility so great to get the neighbor trace
their money, they did worthy rival of Lazarillo de Tormes, Guzmán de Alfarache The Rogue and other
famous heroes of the Spanish novel. For true that before going forward should say that a group
of partners had Ateneo Salabert to the nickname of The Rogue Guzman who knew him. But this nickname
did not come out circle of friends. Best success was a phrase the president of the Council
of Ministers explaining Duke initials. He said that at this early AS was brought to an exclamation
point to read: A That!

We had with a veneer of plausibility that in Cuba, where he had gone to seek his fortune, bought
a tavern on the outskirts of Havana, with all its furniture, including in it a black aimed at
your service. This black, during the years that had that trade, was her maid, his housekeeper, his
clerk and his concubine. It had several children. When he had saved some thousands of dollars
to be returned to Spain, settled their accounts by selling the tavern furniture, black ....
And children!

Then began the teams for the troops, the tobacco business, the sale of roads cediéndolas sometimes with
premiums, other building without the conditions imposed by the contract, the Government loans, etc.,
etc. Deployed in all our dealer his rare wisdom, talent and a positive "organ of acquisitiveness"
so powerful that made him famous because of the characters from the bench.

Their treatment was not unpleasant. Contrary to almost all who aspire to wealth or power nor was fine manners
and sweet in words. It was rather rude than polite, but People knew admirably distinguish and
softened as needed.

The same coarseness native ministered unto him to disguise how clever and subtle thought. It seemed that
this exterior rough, rustic, those overly free and hearty manner could not fail to save frank
and loyal heart.

It was (outside only) type finish old Castilian, honradote, sincere and impertinent. He spoke little
or much as it suited him, he expressed himself with difficulty real or fake (this was never
ascertained), was occasionally humorous outputs, but always played rudeness, and would say
on the face some unpleasant things made him formidable in the classroom. The preponderance acquired
their wealth had been increase last defect. For most people, even the ladies, used to talk
with a frankness bordering on cynicism and shamelessness; signs of contempt that actually
inspired him. However, when faced with a political character which it suited him be supportive,
took another twist this openness very differently and flattery was
transformed into and almost almost servile.

But this farce, but performed admirably, did not fool anyone. The Duke of Requena was taken
by a fox brand. For any longer believed in miracles his words or was left captivated by that tough-looking,
good-natured. Those who spoke were always on guard, though feigning confidence and joy. As all
who have achieved rise, the defects that are universally recognized him, rather, the bad reputation
it had, was not an obstacle to be respected, for everyone you speak with the hat on hand and
smile, but never had to need it. Many men sometimes humiliating for the mere pleasure of humbling.
Salabert knew this innate tendency that has the man's spine to bend and abused her. Many who
lived independently, not only tolerated him guff that they would have seemed intolerable to
a friend children, but craved and sought his treatment.

- We will see, see - repeated again when reminded Llera seize the means of management -. You
are so fantastic, your head is too hot. No good for business.

A if we see what happens here with corn exchanges.

On the advice of Llera, the trader had built corn exchanges in some cities of Spain, which had not
been as successful as expected. And after all the business was not large entity, the losses were
not substantial. Despite this, the Duke, that he cried as if they were scarce and there was his secretary
rude and insulting phrases, reminded every moment matter. Servial weapon to belittle their
plans, although then use them and they Shall nicely a significant increase in their wealth. Thus
Teníale of submissive, ignorant of their worth and work quickly to any annoying it was.

A little embarrassed by the memory, Llera state insisted that the business was now infallible
success if you are driving down the road he pointed. Salabert abruptly cut discussion going
on to other issues. Informóse quickly from the day. The loss of a bond was made by a relative of
Valencia, he was beside himself, snorted and stamped as a bull when he nailed the flags, animal
called a hundred times and had the effrontery say, in the presence of Llera, conclude that
his kind heart to ruin. The loss in total, representing about twenty thousand. The bonds that
the Duke did for his most close friends or relatives were the following lines: The paper was
generally, required the secured six percent of the amount deposited, and did well to cut and
collect coupons.

So that the capital, instead of what profitable to all holders of securities, gave him a six percent
increase. So were the Duke business did not so much by interest as by irresistible impulse
to his heart.

Stormed out of the office of his secretary, went to
the box and there they would learn send to charge the new bank current
account thousand dollars, he picked up the heel after sign. Should
drop by to hold a board as a director, and no job step it cost him
cash. Out on foot as usual in the morning. In the beautiful conifers
that lined the roads of garden-park birds sang merrily. It is understood
that had failed and the bond being lost. The Duke damn who wins had
to sing or even hear their joyful cries. Passed over, his face grim,
without responding to the greetings of the gardeners and the goalkeeper,
with more ferocity biting never his big cigar. On the street soon
his face colored slightly. Had a pleasant and useful meeting. The
chairman of the State Council, who also liked early, greeted him at
the Paseo de Recoletos. They spoke a few moments and took the opportunity
to recommend, with calculated abruptness that characterized him, a
record of some wetlands that was interested. Then slowly, looking
with their eyes bulging, innocent, passers, particularly in stopping
them returning home fresh home with the shopping cart full and cheeks
are red from the effort, led the Bank of Spain. Were many people who
took off his hat. Occasionally paused a moment, giving a handshake,
and changing the familiar encountered four words in familiar and relaxed
tone, went on his way.

It was still early. Before arriving at the
Bank came up to the house of his friend and compariente Calderón.
It was his store and his desk on the streets of San Felipe Neri, as
is its father had left, this is very poor in appearance and even dark
and dirty