 

Goethe believed in God, but his natural inclination led him to seek, not the center of soul,
but pouring out the soul in nature, where God revealed to him. It was therefore more Theosophist
than mystical. That tended more toward the doctrines of Bruno, of Spinoza, and Schelling, who
to those of Fichte, but in the same way that did not stir up sensationalism never, until think
that the reality of things and the impression they make on us can be to give science, common
sense also agreed never to give credence to the creation of reality for the ideal. Supports
both, and vaguely enters on a method called empiricism intellectual intuition which exercises the
office of the observation of the sensual and idealistic speculation.

Hegel attracts and repels at the same time our poet. I love the eternal development of the idea,
and his conscience rejects perpetual change, and thought it came from and born most of the
least conscious of the unconscious, being not-being. To affirm their mind the existence of
a personal God and the immortality of the soul, returns with a love of monads of Leibnitz. God
appears to him the eternal and infinite cute. The human soul, a monad upper and indestructible,
but limited.

The moral of Goethe is too lenient, but not for relaxation but for goodness itself, and firm belief
in the divine goodness and human frailty. Goethe's God is soft, indulgent and benign, and
sometimes almost a merit of the error in the man who errs, it errs
on that sucks.

Pacific, a lover of order, enemy of rudeness, every revolution an event like Goethe awesome.
The horrors of France is outraged and terrified.

And yet, this conservative, this friend of the legitimate powers and fair, has faith in freedom
and progress, and includes the rebellion against tyranny and believes in no time from any government
tyrannical and violent.

His thirst for religion is great and perpetual. It creates a natural religion and not enough.
Without faith in Christianity, dreams of new positive religion. Maybe pretend intermediate monads
among which are human souls and that is God, and these cuties go
geniuses, elemental spirits, demiurge, mysterious and hidden intelligences
which move the stars, who give life to plants, which are the very
nature of personality and consciousness.

Sometimes leans Goethe this path to a flamboyant neo-Platonism and spiritualized paganism, sometimes
becomes forward in faith to the doctrine of Christ and the Gospels and read earnestly pious
books.
His doctrines on aesthetics, according to its basic philosophy with
the natural condition v of his mind, have no small claim in the history
of this new science, and prepare major reform and the development
Schiller conducted under the auspices and according to the footsteps
of Kant