 

Necessity.

The doctrines of this chapter on inspiration and intuition, can we infer the desirability leaving the speech,
and to work, and dedication to a kind of intellectual quietism? Certainly not. For the development
of every faculty is a necessary condition: exercise. In the intellectual and physically, the body
does not work goes to sleep, lost his life the member does not move breaks down. Even the most
privileged geniuses fail to acquire Herculean strength, but after long work. The inspiration does not
come down over the lazy; does not exist when not boiled in the spirit fertilizing ideas and
feelings. Intuition, the view of understanding, but not acquired a habit engendered by the
long look. Fast browsing, safe and sensitive of a great painter, not only due to nature, but
also to the long contemplation and observation of good role models, and the magic of music not unfold
in the most harmonious organization, subject only to hear sounds harsh and annealed [16].

CHAPTER XVII.

EDUCATION.

§ I.

Two objects of education. Different kinds of teachers.

Commonly distinguish between the dialectical method of teaching and invention. About either I shall
give some remarks.

Education has two objects: 1. to instruct students on the elements of science: 2 º. develop their
talent when they leave school can make progress provided to its capacity.

It may seem that these two objects are but one, but it is not. The first reach all teachers who
have moderately science, the second did not arrive those of outstanding merit. For the former, just
knowing the sequence of some facts and propositions, which together form the body of science is
necessary for the latter know how it has built the chain that links
an end to the other, for the first sufficient men who know the books,
for the latter are needed men who know things.

But I will say, may well be that a teacher is more surface for the
simple purpose to teaching the elements that other very deep as this
without warning, it will take speeches to complicate the simplicity
of the first notions, and so damage to the perception hardly capable
of students.

The clear explanation of terms, the exposure level of the principles which underlie science, the
methodical coordination of the theorems and their corollaries, here is the object of those who
do not intend more than instruction in the elements.

But that extends beyond their looks, and consider that the understandings of young people tables
are not only where they have to throw some lines remain unchanged there forever, but fields that have
to fertilize with precious seed, to the tasks incumbent highest and
most difficult.

Reconciling the clarity with depth, simplicity twinning with the
combination, drive on flat road and train at the same time on walking
trails rough, showing the narrow, tangled paths through which they
passed the first inventors, Live inspire enthusiasm, talent awaken
the consciousness of its own forces, without harm with reckless presumption,
behold the powers of the teacher who believes teaching elemental rather
than fruit, but as seed.

§ II.

Ignored geniuses of others, and themselves.

How few are gifted teachers of this wonderful skill!

And how is it possible that has in the pitiful neglect in which lies this industry? Who takes
care of amateur teaching to men of high ability? Who tries to fix them in this occupation, if
they decide ever to undertake? The chairs are looked to as much as a focus to raise more above,
with the arduous tasks that they impose, join thousands upon thousands of a different order,
and plays are running and how distraction to what should obsorb the whole man.

So when young people is one in which the flame front spark of genius nobody says, no one tells it,
nobody is made to feel: and sandwiched between the good talents, continued his career without being
made to experience the scope of their forces. Because we need to know that these forces do
not always know who possesses it, even they are with respect to the
same thing he occupies.

May well be that the fire of genius life remains in ashes, not to
have been a hand that shook.

Did not we see at every step that a lijereza extraordinary, a unique
flexibility of certain members, great muscular strength and other
physical qualities, are hidden until a casual test comes to reveal
who owns them?

If Hercules does not handle more than a stick, never believed to be able to wield a heavy club.

§
III.

Means to discover the hidden talents, and appreciate in value.

A math teacher to explain to his students the theory of conic sections are give a clear and accurate
idea of ??these curves, the equations expressing nature, and deducing the properties of the stem.
So far the student learns While the elements, but not exercised in the development of his intellectual
powers, nothing is offered that can make you feel the talent of invention, if he actually possesses.
But if the professor points out that this fundamental equation, apparently of mere convention,
it is unlikely that it has been established for no reason, of course the young man is ill insurance
based on sound that was said, and seeks the means of giving some support. If a student misses
in the generative principle of these curves, it can be noted the name they bear, and recalled that
the section parallel to the base of the cone is a circle. So naturally the student cut the
cone with planes at different positions, and at the first glance warns that if the section is closed,
and not parallel to the base, are curves whose shape resembles to the ellipse is called. And
imagine the section closest to parallelism, and more distant and always note that the figure is
an ellipse, with the only difference being the most applanation the sides, or else the biggest
difference of the axes. Is it possible to express by an equation the nature of this curve? Are there
any known data? Do you have a relationship with properties of the cone, and the parallel section?
Does the greater or less inclination of the plane change the nature of the section? Giving to
the plane other positions, so that does not leave locked section, what curves are? Is there any
similarity between them and the parables and hyperbole? These and other questions are offered
to gifted disciple of capacity and is very happy if provisions veréisle instantly pull lines inside
the cone, compared to each other, conceive triangles, calculate their relationships, and to explore
a thousand ways to arrive at the equation desired. So do not just learn the basics of the theory,
has become and an inventor, his talent as fuel is primed, and when insulated procedures of primary
education had many equals in intelligence doctrine explained now ye shall see that his companions
left far behind, that they have not taken a step, whilst him, or
has obtained the result that is sought, or advance in the true path.

Then releases its forces, and knows himself, then it feels that the capacity is above to the
routine, and maybe in time you can expand the domain of science.

A natural law professor fully explained the rights and duties of parental rights, and obligations
of children with respect to parents, saying the definitions and reasons in such cases usually. So
here come the elements, but nothing is to develop the philosophical genius of a privileged student,
or you can make stand out among the pool of peers and having a regular
capacity.

The skillful teacher want to take the measure of the talents that exist in the chair, and the time
left over after the explanation he used in an experiment.

- What about these duties seems to V. if they say something the feelings of the heart? Lights
of philosophy do you agree with the inspirations of nature? To answer this question to the medium,
noting that parents naturally want to the children, and these to
the parents, and thus are linked from our duties in our affections,
instigating these compliance with those.

So far there is no difference between students who are called good talent. But the professor
goes on to analyze the subject and question.

- How do you like to V. of the children who misbehave with parents, and not under due gratitude to
the love that these are lavished?

- Missing a sacred duty to heed not the voice of nature.

- But how come we see so often as children should not meet with their parents, while these if
something missing, usually due to overabundance of love and tenderness?

- In this the children are very bad, say the one.

- Men are easily forgotten the benefits received, tell the other, who allege the children as they
advance in age attentions are distracted by a thousand different; who remember that new affection
engendered in their minds, on account of the family that become heads, which should reduce their fathers:
and each walk noting reasons more or less adapted, more or less solid, but none entirely satisfying.
If among your students is one that has to acquire renown clarified over time, dirigidle the
same question, to see if something is right to say that unravel and illustrious.

- It is too true, I answer, that too often missing children to their duties to their parents,
but, if I mistake not, the reason for this lies in the very nature of things. The more necessary
it is for the preservation and good order of beings compliance of duty, the Creator has sought
to ensure more compliance. The world is saved, more or less well, in spite of the bad behavior
of the children, but the day that parents misbehave and forget to take care of their children,
the human race would walk to his ruin. So it is noteworthy that the children, even the best, not
his parents profess an affection so alive and burn as fathers to their children. The Creator
certainly could impart to children a so passionate and tender love as it is the parents, but this
was not necessary, and the same is not already. And it is noteworthy that the mothers, who have
greater need this love and tenderness, which have led to the limits of frenzy, having got girt
the Breeder against fatigue that could produce the first care of
children.

It also appears that the lack of fulfillment of duties in the children, there is no precisely
that these are worse, for them if they become parents, they behave as did the his, but that his
filial love is less intense than the paternal, carries much less
ascendancy and dominance over the heart, and therefore more easily
subsides, it is less strong to overcome obstacles, and exerts less
influence on all of our actions.

In the early disciples exploited responses found in this you discover the young philosopher
who begins to stand out as among stunted rose bushes tender oak walk the years that will be
felt in the forest by his big trunk and superb drink.

§ IX.

Need for basic studies.

Not created by the above, it deems appropriate to youth emancipating education elements, on the contrary,
I think he has to learn a science, however great are forces that feel equipped, it should be subject
to this mortification is as the novitiate of the letters. In this attempt many items exempted
by appealing to dictionary which contains enough to talk about everything without understanding
anything, but reason and experience demonstrate that such a method can not serve but to form what scholars
call the violet.

In effect there is in every science and profession a set of key ideas, voices and phrases peculiar
to it, which are not learned well, but considering an elemental work: so when there was no other
considerations, this would suffice to demonstrate the drawbacks to take another path. These key
concepts, and those voices and idioms, to be regarded with some respect for those who re-enters the race,
presumably because it has not in vain have worked so far which were devoted to it. If the newcomer
is mistrust of his predecessors, if you expect to reform the science or profession, and to vary dramatically,
must at least reflect, it is prudent to learn what others have said, it is bold commitment
to create everything by itself, and is exposed to waste time, not
love each other to take in any of the hardships of others.

The most extraordinary driver starts perhaps to pursue her profession in the shop of a modest craftsman,
and with great hopes which may be based on his brilliant arrangements, it remains so to learn
the names and handling of instruments and appliances work. Over time they will in many variations,
the other stuff will be more adapted, changed its form and perhaps its name, but for now need
to take them such as is, you exercise with them, until the reflection and experience have shown him that
suffer disadvantages and improvements that are susceptible.

Can be applied to all sciences the advice given to those who want to learn the story: Before
you begin your study, you must read a compendium. In this regard is remarkable Bossuet's words
in the dedication which precedes his Discourse on Universal History. Seats need to study history
in brief, to avoid confusion and save fatigue, and then adds: "This way of presenting the
world history will compare to the description geographical maps: universal history is compared
to the general map stories of each country and each people. In particular maps you see often
what is a kingdom or a province itself, in the universal you learn to fix these parts the world as
a whole, in a word, you see the part that deals with Paris or the Isle of France the kingdom, the
kingdom has in Europe, and that Europe is in the universe.

"Well well: the timely and bright comparison between the World Map and individuals apply to all
branches of knowledge. In all there are a number of which must take over to better understand the
parts, and not go confused and lost on the way sorting.

Even the ideas that are acquired by this method are almost always incomplete, often inaccurate,
and sometimes false, but all these problems even not so heavy as those resulting to rush blindly,
without background or guidance, the study of science.

Elementary works, we say, are nothing more than a skeleton, it is
true, but as is saves a lot of work, finding him already formed, it
will be easier to correct his faults, covering of nerves, muscles
and flesh, her warm, movement and life.

Among those who have studied science principles, and who, so to speak,
have taken their ideas on the fly, encyclopedias and dictionaries,
there is always a difference not escapes to a trained eye.

The former are distinguished by the precision of ideas and property
language, the others may look abundant and select news, but to the
best give a solemn occasion slip stating its superficiality ignorant
[17].

CHAPTER XVIII.

The invention.

§ I.

What to do who lack the talent for invention.

I have said enough about the methods of teaching and learning, was
treated the method of invention.

Knowing the elements of a science, and man comes to age and position that can devoted to studies
of greater length and depth, is on the case to follow paths less
beaten, and undertake more daring companies.

If nature has not gifted talent Invention, it must be satisfied for life with the elemental method,
rather than taken on a larger scale. Need guides, and this service will provide the masterpieces.
But not is believed to be understood doomed to blind subservience, and not daring to disagree
never to the authority of your teachers in the military scientific and literary, is not as
severe discipline that is not lawful for a soldier to direct some comments to his boss.

§ II.

Scientific authority.

Men able to lift and carry a flag, very few, and better is to enlist in the ranks of accredited
general, not miserable way to go guerrilla, affecting the importance of illustrious leader.

Saying
this is not my intention to preach the authority in matters purely scientific and literary;
throughout the course of the work I have given enough to understand that do not suffer from this ailment,
only I intend to indicate a need for our understanding, that being usually very thin, has need
of support. Ivy intertwined with a tree, rises to great heights, if grow without came over would
lie stretched on the ground trampled by all passersby. In addition, not for having made this
observation, we have to change the regular order of things: for with it I have given rather a fact
that offered advice. If a fact, because in spite of as much as it boasts of independence, it
is clearer than the midday light of this independence does not exist, much of humanity walking
tour by some leaders, and these to his spirit is carried by the path of truth or of error.

This
is a fact of all countries and all centuries, a fact because it is
indestructible founded in the very nature of man.

The weaker the strong feeling of superiority, and humiliated in their
presence, the genius is the heritage of mankind, is a privilege to
few granted: who has exercised an influence over other irresistible.

It has been observed very true that the masses have a tendency to
despotism, this stems from their feelings its inability to address,
and naturally seek a boss that experienced in war and politics, is
also noted in the sciences.

The generality of those who profess them are also masses are real common people who gave himself
would not know what to do, for the same way to swirling around popular groups that speak of something
better than he knows, and demonstrate knowledge he has not. The enthusiasm in the populace also penetrates
wise, and just as the other in their riots, clapping and shouting: "very good, very good! ... you
understand it better than us you will be our chief ....»

§ III.

Amendments have been in our age of scientific authority.

As widespread knowledge of the immense development of the press, has been given to believe that
the phenomenon had disappeared, but did not: what he has done, has
been modified.

When the warlords were few, when the command was among a few schools, understandings went way disciplined
armies, being so obvious dependence that there was no mistaking. Now it happens in another way: the leaders
and schools in greater numbers, the discipline has been relaxed: the soldiers go from one to
another field, these come on a bit, those are left behind, some separated
and strive to skirmishes no instructions or orders from their bosses,
it would seem that the great armies have stopped exist and that each
place by his side: but ye be not illusions, there are armies spite
of this disorder, all of which belong to well know, if you drop out
of a join the other, and when they are in trouble, all retreated in
the direction where they know they are the main body to cover their
retreat.

And if we wanted to enter into detailed accounts, we would find that it is so accurate that the leaders
are now in far greater numbers than in previous times. Forming a classification table scientific
and literary easily find that in each gender are very few carrying the flag, and his steps rushes
the crowd now as ever.

The theater and the novel do not have a small number of notables, whose works are imitated to
the annoyance? Politics, philosophy, history, do not also have a
few champions, whose names are pronounced without ceasing, and whose
opinions and speech are without discernment? The independent Germany,
did not have their philosophical schools, as marked and characterized
as could be those of St. Thomas, Scotus and Suarez? What are the peat
France academic philosophers, but humble followers of Cousin? And
what was his turn Cousin but a vicar of Hegel, and Schelling? and
philosophy, which also struggled to enter between us, do not start
with magisterial tone, demanding respect and deference, as a sacred
ministry is directed to the conversion of ordinary people