 

This concept was born under the abuse both to his body, taking care so little about him as if
was a beast, with a bowl of rice or corn bad stew, and wild fruits, passed ordinarily, and when
eating undercooked fish, it seemed a great gift.

Finally, it was so detached from earthly things (words of a conmisionero yours) that seemed to
have no inclinations of man, and it was just born to dilate the glory of God and seek the good
of souls, these were his wishes, his desire and that they all himself.

It

is not therefore wonder, that God wanted so ornate crown servant of merit and virtues as most
happy death.

CHAPTER XVI

Conversion of Morotocos and Quies, and discovery of new road for these missions by the river
Paraguay.

Having Fr Juan Bautista de Zea Reduction visited St. Joseph, was ordered
looking for the Tapuyquias Rancherías, so got on track after some
Boxos Indian nation, bringing one of the Tapuyquias who had captured
them when were still heathen.

After many days they came to take a path full of traces of men, where
persuaded the Boxos who had recently passed that the Tapuyquias, when
unexpectedly came to a seed, where he was currently working on an
old Indian with his family.

Mood he perished in sight of us, and with words and gestures of those who prayed, asked them
not to kill him.

Burláronse the Boxos of his plea, and he took all the shock, presenting
a knife; and guiding the old man, who danced with joy with that in
mind, were received from countrymen with great kindness, which corresponded
to the novices by giving them some things Europe, taken in low esteem
among us, but they greatly appreciated.

Did not understand, being of different languages, but with all that, and got hit bring two youths,
who learned the language of the Chiquitos, served after performers.

Tapuyquias these Indians were not, as had been thought, but Morotocos, or as others call them,
Coroinos. They are people of great stature and good forces, use of arrows and spears that make
a hard wood, and handled with great skill.

They are few in number, and by pestilence, as for the wars they bring with neighbors, and also
because being content with only two kill other children, which women are freed from all trouble
and annoyance to thus able to live at will in any dishonesty.

Honor women with the title of ladies, and indeed they are, because
they send their husbands, and their fancy move from place to place,
never put his hand on the estates home, but serve their husbands,
even for humble ministries.

Although they have chiefs and captains, why not have no government
or religion, and have only some reverence to the family of the devil.

The country is the most unfortunate of those nations terroir and surrounded sterile and wild everything
from mountains, and the food is worse than elsewhere, because people just based on nothing but
some roots are abundant forests.

To drink, have a forest of palms, which take the core logs thick and fluffy, to spin the lack
of water supplies.

In the winter it is very cold there and freezes, which the peasants, even go naked, not cause discomfort,
have skin with two fingers of callus, and thus are robust, strong
man and much endurance, so that there are men and women who spend
a hundred years old, and die otherwise healthy old age.

Two young men of this nation saluted much the way Christians live, and then others also, who,
seeing such an abundance of food crops and so fat field, gave great parties waved his style
of extraordinary joy felt, seeing as how they spend their lives comfortably and with less
work, and staying among Christians are promised out of his misery and poverty of their land.

At
the end of June the same year, prevented the P. Felipe Suarez to go to five Rancherías of
Morotocos, to attract people to a knowledge of the true God, but he had to stop some time have
received a letter from P. Visitor and Vice-Provincial Antonio Garriga, in ordering him to happen
to P. Juan Patricio Fernández in the office of Superior of those
Missions for all that, to avoid losing the chance, was there and happily
brought God people, of which many were worried then and wanted to
return to their former miseries, soon as the weather according to
their health, but God reward his toil and hardship servant, who really
were great, especially a ardientísima thirst for five days without
a drop of water to be cooled, is still, at last, and fell all taken
to be Christians and still home in St. Joseph.

With the advent of these were reported as some of other infidels were Quies, confining with
Morotocos, but in a different language, the Curacates, located to the north, the Zamucos, that although
they speak the same language of Morotocos and use their own weapons, however differ from them in that
shaved head as the Toba and Mocovíes, and women dress with more honesty, covering from the
waist to the knees, the Career and Zatienos Ibirayas or who live
next to a salt mine, and other nations to the south, which extend
into the provinces of Chaco very broad.

Received this news, it was after winning to Christ and Quies Curacates, which living on the
banks of a river that flows into the great river Paraguay.

Dispatched, then, beyond some Boxos and Chiquitos, which in a few days came to the lands of Quies,
although resistance did, however, they trusted and were not credit to touch and courtesies
of us, but rather gave them in the face with the havoc them had their weapons past years, it
still retained many signals and scars, with all that, they took with them the neophytes to
a two boys, so that Chiquita learned the language, interpreters were after. Anxious parents
to know the end who had these two boys came into the taper, where they were greeted with great
celebration and joy, and treated by Christians with the same liberality, that were so taken,
that point came after them and then the rest of the people to live in St. Joseph and abide
by the gentle yoke of God's law, and although some families still want to stay on their land, not
knowing at once abandon their farms, by throwing the love of country and native soil gave way,
finally, the zeal of Father Felipe Suarez, when year, 715 came along
way to go and find some missionaries believed Reductions passed the
Guarani to those of the Chiquitos.

For the mission to the Curacates refused to take with you the P. Zea no Indian Chiquito because
they feared the former and flee, and so it was only with some Morotocos.

Arriving at the first Rancheria of Cucarates Zamucos found in it some
who had come to visit him, said unto the Father with the full power
of his spirit, which was great through an interpreter, making them
a rich present of knives, hatchets and wedges or other tools to cultivate
the land.

They did not want to admit this, because Cucarates had become angry
with them, as if they had been moved to visit Father of interest,
and because the were given to the Zamucos the less had to give to
the Cucarates.

Notwithstanding this, the P. Zea forced them to receive him, saying that God would give to
everyone.

Or were not for this, or because they wanted Cucarates not reduce to the holy faith, laid
hold of P. Zea a chieftain of his, and took him aside to kill him, saying he came "to what end to
deceive?

The holy man, who wanted nothing prevented his Christians to defend him, but Morotoco brave,
do not suffer the heart to kill his view that Venerable Missionary with great courage and
determination, was stripped of his hands, saying the chief:

- Why do you want to kill our father, being so good?

Admiring P. Zea (not without pain, lost his chance to see the crown of martyrdom, that was so
close) the action of this barbarian, who shortly before being somewhat less than one Gross,
now was an advocate of the divine law, and their preachers, never ceased to give many thanks
to heaven and to the wounds of our Redeemer, whose blood was as effective in the hearts Barbarians
and inhuman.

But it was not entirely wasted this way the Father Zea, because some families in better condition
fell to St. Joseph, and then little by little, have been following his example the others.

"It was also here to inform the nation individuality of Zamucos, whose leader said he had six towns
on their land as large as that of St. Joseph, then consisted of five hundred Indians, and six middle
and lower, very close to each other, and a large crowd all the same nation and language, and
that there were few villages the banks of a great river running from
east to west, and added the chief brought wars continuing with the
Toba, and other nations Caipotourades their border, which had innumerable
people, from which inferred to be the Chaco, which has had a long
number of Nations, and being and there opened the door for communication
short of those missions in this province thing I always wanted most,
but has not succeeded so far.

"

Now, then, turning away a bit of history, refer the trip, misfortune
and death Apostolic two workers, Joseph de Arce and Bartolome de Blende,
that after a grievous pilgrimage to the Paraguay River, arrived with
no less envy of others who glory you, the safe harbor of eternal bliss.

These,

then, at the end of January 1715 left the port of Asunción escorted to the bank by the governor
of that province and the whole city, which was exposed publicly at the Cathedral of the Blessed
Sacrament that God would give them a very happy trip.

Count, at length, the dangers of falling into the hands of enemies, not less of God than of Spanish,
shipwrecked on rocks, running aground on the sand, the contrariety
of winds, storms in the water and air, it would never end, it seemed
that all hell had touched the gun and left the pit to prevent every
possible effort to the successful achievement this journey, and God,
whose judgments, as David said, are a bottomless pit, let no be accomplished
with an undertaking as required of many towns and cities.

The first contrast they had was the perfidy of the Payaguá, who entertained with good words and
show signs of burning desire to be Christians, tried to surprise treacherously, take away the lives,
and they and the Christian Indians that led, and by setting fire to the ship, steal and take
advantage of the iron nails, but frustrated his wicked secret plan by notice some less inhuman between
them, and yet had dared to go out in the open against them in their
canoes very slight body of two hundred Indians, who, as we shall see
below, finally managed to catch them off guard and kill treacherously.

Later, Guaycurús, valiant people, but sworn enemies of Christ's name and Spanish, at all times
and places, for much of the road space, day and night I played the passage with the weapons and
were always on the lookout to see if they could give upon them and seize the boat and catch or kill
or passengers, and once, to not have, by God's mercy, suddenly a wind up leading the ship to another
place, infallibly have fallen into their hands, resulting in a trap hundreds of these Guaycurús,
that hidden in the water down her throat, waiting to give them, to which the ship to put an bowline
to pass a narrow entrance, which have lowered the flood, it was very
difficult riding.

Finally got rid of its ongoing raids at the expense of a rich present
of knives, wedges iron and a few yards of linen, which the people
of the Guarani sending of alms to the Christianity of the Chiquitos.

Finally, the winds, always contrary, forced them to walk by dint of rowing, and a times the ship
aground on the sand, they were obliged to refloat, to walk away,
transporting cargo to the shore, and others, giving on the rocks,
made them walk in continuous fright and shock.

To this are added the language to take care of the Chiquitos, road and fell whither those missions,
and the infidels, industry, gave them a thousand new happy that came to stop, finally, jeers and
taunts, and God, whose judgments are unsearchable, not allowed which
would give them recognize the beach to the north, where Fr Juan Patricio
Fernández had left some signals, which could be aimed at the reduction
of San Rafael.

And so, sailing to all parts of the river in continual drive, without rest or respite, spent
about seven months to mid August, but did not suffer the heart to overzealous P. Arce frustrate
this journey and many hardships as they had happened the past years took a decision that could
only excuse for his reckless ardientísimo zeal for souls, their trust in God and the love he had to
these missions, as the first Apostle of them, and was that left the boat and picked twelve Indians,
the brave and fervent in faith, undertook travel by land with strong encouragement to seek
the Chiquitos Reductions, even if in danger of falling into the hands
of the barbarians who took his life, or to starve and thirst for those
deserts and unknown lands.

What I suffered in that way for two months, how many fatigues, many
jobs and penalties, not to speak with my words, I will here part of
the relationship did five of his fellow Indians on this trip.

Say, then, and in their relationship:

Father picking up his cross, broke ground Mamore, with four Indians, giving order to the others
that are not from there. A few days later we received a note of hers, which he told us we followed
the other eight, and after a few days away, a smoke we saw in the
distance, we knew where we were, and arrived, we were welcomed with
open arms but we did not have all day to reach the mouth.

Seeing the anguish and work of the Father, we went back four to the
ship, and taking some food, returned to seek the Father with all haste,
We found a just, because others, not having what to eat, had gone
to a rabbit fencing with fire.

With so many jobs and lack of food and drink had been such that only
her skin on bone.

It was amazing the joy you had when you saw us, hugging, bathing their tears in his eyes.

We continued the trip, walking a day by a very thick forest, and such
was the thicket they did not know where we were.

Being the Father in this anguish, not knowing what to do or where
to turn, told us:

- Children, who were tired of the work, turn the
boat.

They replied all with one accord, which were prepared to follow him
wherever he went; that day we had no other water to drink but a swamp
of terrible smell.

We walked to the shore of the Paraguay River, where having hunted a deer, we were afflicted the
lack of water, but digging one of our colleagues a well, by great
providence of God, to two fathoms discovered a vein of water.

We spent the night here, and entering the following day in a thick wood, we were obliged lead the
way with great fatigue and sweat to get out of him to open campaign.

Then judged P. Joseph already eaten and we were tired of so much trouble and penalties, so we turned
to say:

- He who wishes to become, turn in good time, I am determined to go forward and to fulfill the will
of God and my superiors. One or more years in these forests walk if God wants me to stay alive
until the desired doneness.

If you find infidels we will stand between them and teach them God's law.

Such verve and such encouragement was the P. Joseph, afflicted with hunger, thirst, fatigue, and
of nudity (because they're sleeping next to the fire burned his poor
cassock) caused no small wonder that, being so lacking in strength,
was barely standing, not doubt lead Later, much to his expense, a
business so difficult and almost desperate.

Encouraged by his breath and spirit, we entered a thick forest, where
the holy man, from by shrubs and trees, armed with spines harsh everywhere,
let those rags of his robe that had escaped the fire, falling at every
step without being able to lift, with that was necessary to shake
his hand.

In this way, with great fatigue, we reached a river where some fish recovered fished, where we
stopped shortly before had been an army of infidels.

I was already so finishing forces Fr Joseph, who was very little I could walk, and between Thus
several days went by without his mouth but a little wild fruit.

It was admirable patience and serenity of mind in these sets, without
showing the slightest feeling when I had nothing to eat, spending
time absorbed in God, and every morning, before set out, knelt a long
distance.

We found some wild fruit that only made us eat the extreme necessity.

Some browsers that were discovered before a smoke in the distance, that we all great joy.

In early October, we stopped at the edge of a river, where we could make good with fish and turtles
that are at a lagoon. We continued on and we totally missed the food and drink, and we had nothing
to give to the Father but some palmettos, who first served us food,
but after experiencing evil purposes, causing great pain to the Father
of the stomach, and inflammation of the bowels fierce with thirst
ardientísima.

In this condition he ran both the forces and consumed so believing it to be already reached
the end of his life, begged us to lead him on the banks of a river, and leaving us there we
returned to Paraguay.

Hallámonos in great distress, not only why we said, because his face
was as over corpse of living body and wanting comfort, could not utter
a word because they have been swollen tongue.

We, those most hurt to the loss of life of the Father as our own, said resolutely he wanted to
stay in all jobs, and even their lives if necessary.

Recobróse a little, and giving encouragement to the nature of the
force of spirit, he set out falling and rising at every step, and
the fourth day, finding a bit of wild honey, it Father present to
slake the thirst.

Being one of us in a tree, he saw a cloud of smoke toward the west,
which had done Indian Christian P. Zea back from the shores of the
Paraguay river, as we discovered later; and walking over there, we
wanted to take the Father in a hammock, because he feared much few
steps if he would fall dead on his feet, but he refused saying he
wanted to have with us until the last moment of his life.

The next day was Friday, we did not find anything to eat, and Saturday, by God's providence, we
took some hunting and a turtle for the Father.

At last it pleased God to comfort, uncovering the desired path as the Chiquitos. Amazing was
the joy that was the holy man, not ceasing to give thanks, and encourage one to tears in the
eyes to see us do the same, intoned the Litany of Our Lady, and coming
soon after the place where the day before had said Mass P. Juan Bautista
de Zea, we gathered together at all, and more tears than words, he
thanked us many jobs as we passed it, and that his life would remember
us.

This comfort became worth recognizing that lost their holy Christ
and searched all parts could not be found, and all that night they
hit the eyes at the loss of their Lord, who had given so much encouragement
and strength to those anxieties, until the desired doneness.

The next day we had water supplies and fish, and we encounter with two Christians who had The
portable altar P. Zea, we headed there. What were the greetings and happiness of these two apostolic
missionaries to be together after so many hardships, we can not explain,
because the more they talked with her eyes and sighs with the language.

So

far the relationship of the Indians.

Q. Just arrived Arce to San Rafael, when not taking a break to recover, by P. advice Superior,
set off towards the lagoon Mamore, whose path, though more short, it was like the past.
Arrived there was the possible measures to find the P. Blende and
the boat, but was in vain, because this, after having waited a long
time, it was obligated to violence from their peers.

At this time
received a letter from P. Vice-Provincial in which he warned that
waiting for him, because wanted to embark.

Answered, P. Arce was
stopped in San Rafael Reverence, that he would in a canoe to the Payaguá,
who have already won for his encouragement and affection, promised
to lead him to Asuncion, where in April the following year, again
to take you.

Do not wait for an answer Fr Provincial, but then went
on the road to Mamore along with Fr Zea, who after five months of
laborious missions in those deserts, offered to serve as a guide,
and what is most admired because he was determined, if not The boat
was soon P. Arce, to make a few canoes and drive them to P. Vice-Provincial
to the Assumption, through many dangers and enemies