 

On the afternoon of that day we returned to Mexico and all the way, I could not distract from
my mind the incident that had impressed me so much. Upon reaching the city, sent say masses
for the soul of this "old master", who was denied Christian burial, but found it poetry, sheltered
by mangrove and palms, near the spout of the "Garden of the Sultana."

It was a few months. One day I said to Antonio:

- You know I've written to San Javier, which this year ordered Herrera
Goya painted black?

- Man, do not do that!

Take care.

- Hello! Are you superstitious?

Three days later, the society of Mexico was dismayed to learn that
the rebel hordes had entered the bag in the main hacienda of Sandoval
Hernández, who had set heat to ingenuity, and blown up with dynamite
the old building.

       

San Javier, and it was just a huge pile of rubble.

THE CHEST

JESUS ??REYES FERREIRA

The flickering flames, the fire in the fireplace gave off, did a fantastic range, on the walls of
the room, the shadow of the old Don Alejandro.

He huddled in a chair wide near the home, tried to warm your body, numb, not so much by bad weather
at that time was, the punishment for years and weighed about him. But despite its proximity to
the fire, felt cold.

Many nights spent long hours in the same spot, staring at the red light! Sometimes the forms
assumed burning logs bartered his imagination in people and happenings
real, and so became that home on stage, in which often represented
the grim drama of his life.

The first act, as it was of little interest. After his early years, after next to his mother
saw his college life, sad life and no friends, so much influenced his character, making sullen
and withdrawn.

The second act began with a frightening picture.

On the bed lay his mother's death, the it only being loved, and next, standing contemplábala
a severe man, almost revolting: his father.

Sucedíanse other acts of the drama with fidelity. Don Alejandro ran major capitals of the world
in search of distraction, but all fled from him, be like a infectious,
thus embittered his character more and more.

When returning home, he found his father was dying. Without feeling any pain, saw how they turned
out the existence of the author of his life. The doctor indicated that no further action ...
Came the priest, but the dying stating he could only with great difficulty,
the words:

- The chest ...!

The room that was Don Alejandro kept many works of art and antiques. Among them, in a corner of
the room was a large iron chest, covered almost in its entirety, with brass nails and rivets. This
was, without doubt, the casket which the dying man had intended to, but the key had been found
and the secret if it was secret, has been ignored.

For the thousandth time, Don Alejandro glanced towards the corner of the room, and trembled to see
that the hood was open. The heavy lid resting against the wall, revealing the ancient and complicated
mechanism of a lock.

The old long remained without power away from that place the frightened eyes. For end, making
a supreme effort, he left his seat next to the fireplace, and a sense of terror, he went to the
chest. At first he could see nothing inside, but few moments later saw a yellow rectangle lying
on the bottom. Hincóse knees and with trembling hands removed the
object.

It was an envelope, stained over time, no sign of any kind.

Formidable sudden noise made him turn his head, frightened, and saw
that the cover trunk had fallen into place, closing it again.

He returned to the home side to read the contents of the envelope,
but their hands were so trembling, unable to verify. After a few moments,
he managed to win on peace, opened the cover and with eyes of terror,
extracted the statement contained therein. But head was spinning and
had to rely on the chair to keep from falling to the ground. Set of
New eyes on the hearth, and saw clearly the dreadful scene of his
death mother. Stunned, looked the old man around furtively, afraid
of being observed, and decided make an effort to read the statement,
but the paper ran away from his trembling hands and fell the flames
that consumed it voraciously.

Don Alejandro looked toward the corner
where there was a closed casket and even closer to chimney, but, despite
its proximity to the fire was cold.

IMAGO Tristis

Talked, my friend
and I, of indifferent and trivial. The sun about to disappear, cast
light upon the earth warm and reddish, and the heat coming through
the open window seemed to spread throughout the room