 He had the spirit too inflamed by divine love to see what that was to
funny and interesting in this quirky character, to contemplate and study through the eyes of an
artist. That violence, even better, that ferocity, sensitive soul troubled; the lack of interest
that the priest showed the theological issues or tiles above him indignant; but above all,
greed sordid old man, who was with one foot in the grave Minister of Him who said, "ye have
no gold or silver, or money, or your you bear travel bag, two coats, nor shoes, nor staff,
"caused him invincible repugnance. The pastor of Peñascosa rich man passed through, and it was
in effect. Fifty years on run populous parish and living with extreme economy had enabled him
to put together a capital respectable. He had bought many lands, but said he kept at home too large
amount in cash. And so it must be, who worked on attentive monitoring, especially night. After
ending his frugal dinner and prayed an Our Father in thanksgiving D. Michael got up and staggered
a little, because the torso was tough on him that legs, went to the dresser, took from her a
couple of guns huge spark, and one in each hand he headed to his bedroom, under the astonished
gaze of Gil. For though all was repeating the scene, never stopped producing painful astonishment.
A priest with two guns in hand, in those same hands the next day had to play the body of our Redeemer!
Had ever seen his teacher, rector of the seminary Lancia in bed. On her bedside table was a brass
crucifix and a few disciplines bloody. When comparing the two priests, was not only grow their
admiration for this virtuous man, but also, in spite of his, was born in his mind a certain
contempt your pastor.

This however, his humility forced him to reject this feeling and repeated the phrase common to
all mystics, "so, it is better than me."

Not only, then watched him as his superior and it taxed all due respect, but made efforts to
portray morally better than him. In the confessional, he offered complicated cases of conscience,
not entering into the formulas of the books he had studied. Seeing a hurry to solve them went to D. Miguel
in demand for light, the case exposed him sheepishly asking for advice. The former leader listened
with obvious impatience, furrowing his brow grim, used to answer roughly:

- Go forward and not dwell on Patarata.

Patarata!

The well qualified Peñascosa cure the excesses of consciousness, pain remorse. The lieutenant
shook and did her best thoughts scare at that time flocked to his brain. Concluded not to ask
any advice, and acted wisely. The moral theology of Don Miguel was certainly weaker than the
tactics military.

After collecting the last gasp of the dying, the greatest joy of the novice priest was sitting
in the confessional and clarify the consciousness of his penitents and lead the path of perfection.
But this joy was waning to see the smallness, the unimportance of subjects who approached his court. Almost
all were women: a miracle arrived a man to confess. These women are always the same and with
the same sins, they concluded bored. At first, watching the docility with which listened to his
advice, the burning showing mercy and love of the sacraments, he imagined that he could easily make
each day better, lifted to sainthood or nearly so. Soon became convinced that it was more
difficult to change the lives of those pious than a hardened sinner. Caused him great discouragement
began nonadas those annoyed, those domestic confidences dull and foolish with seasoned devotees
that their confessions. And I could not but admire his colleague P. Narciso, who spent the
dead hours confessing with the same hobby the first day. Not only confessed, but, for one
reason or another, was always between of them: sometimes they were the Flores de Mayo, others the
ninth of the Daughters of Mary, others congregation of St. Vincent de Paul, etc.. Fr Narcissus
was, as we know, the spiritual director and female idol of rocks.

However, since the arrival of P. Gil the people, the herd had suffered
some casualties.

Several pious left his cassock protective splint placed under the new toilets. He had no verbosity
and grace of P. Narciso, and was happy to spend little jokes salt with their penitents, but instead
had a delicate figure like a cherub, a smile sweet and melancholy so gentle and distinguished manners,
qualities that compensated well other. Some ladies and understood at least, and the rout was just
indicated. But the strange thing, how good the case was that the chaplain's favorite sheep Sarrió
Obdulia of whom whispered that the young artisans on the day of new mass, left also his pastor,
who bounded about spiritually, in the words of those in the garden Montesinos, and came humbly
prostrate at the feet of the young priest.

Two months after taking possession of his office it, was an afternoon
in the confessional praying for his breviary of pocket.

In the chapel where I used to sit there was no anyone. Two mujerucas who had confessed had already
left. Suddenly a towering figure and slender door half hid, where it entered some clarity,
not much. Fr Gil lifted eyes and recognized the daughter of Osuna. The known long view, though
he had never spoken with it. He knew that he was very assiduous penitent P. Narciso, and even had
reached their heard rumors that rejected, of course, indignantly. However, this young woman so
fond of the church, as loose and wandering, it was not nice. Obdulia had pale, extremely pale,
where gleaming black eyes as big and beautiful few. His black hair was also abundant, her figure
slim. Everything about him indicated a morbid temperament. I could not rightly call it beautiful,
but interesting and distinguished. He moved slowly through the chapel. The young cleric believed
to come to him any questions regarding general communion the next day. But instead, Obdulia shyly
leaned forward and asked with a trembling voice, where strange warning emotion:

- Can I get you to confess?

He was surprised and unhappy.

It took a moment to respond, then said gravely dry states:

- For
that I am here to confess all you want.

The girl's pale face was colored heavily, his lips trembled like to
thank; but not let out any sound.

Knelt on the platform next to the confessional briefly prayed and went to order his haggard face
to the window grating.

Fr Gil was worried, very very satisfied with that choice. Not that confess a more or less graceful
young cared nothing. Hers was a pure temperament, calm. The struggle with the flesh side never
had great difficulty. Women were to him things weak, needy, therefore, protection and advice: If
you had to live always prevented against them was because the Holy Fathers were so established, bearing
in mind without doubt his frivolity and his sinful nature. The formidable fighter who had needed
support was not against the sensuality, but against his analytical spirit of curiosity, love of science.
His revered teacher, the seminary rector, delivered to him burning study of mathematics, physics,
philosophy, had sounded the alert. Why study so much? What drove in the final result, science?
Necessary to saved could learn well in a day, in one hour, one minute. The important thing
is not to know but pray and work. The virtuous man is the wiser, because he knows the way to
reach God and follows him. These truths were imposed soon to his spirit and he warned against scientific
curiosity and prompted him to suffocate. Encouraged by the advice and example his master had
killed the thirst for knowledge with the refreshment of prayer and penance. Did, like him, love
the inexplicable, absurd, because it better meets the aspirations of a soul in love.

But although she had not been for him never a danger, kept in the depths of his being to her
spiteful contempt that characterizes all the mystics, not by the
influence can exert on them, but for the unfortunate that displays
on other poor souls.

On this occasion said that the young woman ran over, his reputation as unpredictable, bizarre,
aroused in him a feeling of hostility that led to a rebuke so sweet in how severe the background
when the young man said he had no reason to vary as a confessor.

- I have not found anything wrong with it ... Only that I understand not just - concluded to manifest,
looking tight.

- Every minister of the Lord - Father replied gruffly Gil - understands what is sin, and that's
enough.

But the confession that followed, long, sincere, earnest, more than once watered by tears, did change
the layout of the clergy. Realized that they were not a soul was vulgar, Slut with a frivolous,
but with a Christian heart as his enthusiastic, played of divine love and eager to perfection.
There was certainly enough inconsistencies in his statements, details recounted ridiculous and
even stupid and worthless at times, but others showed big and strong, stomping their passions and
releasing their flight toward the light and truth. There time when his confessor novel thought
to be scrutinizing the soul of a saint to such point looked like the impetus, the mystical
yearnings of the young to what he had read the life of St. Teresa, St. Catherine of Siena
and other glorious mother of the Church. The account of the penance to which impressed him
deeply mortified and made forming it a high concept.

Without realizing it, Obdulia came to do on that evening a general confession. To communicate the new
confessor, the weaknesses of his temperament, the movements of his sinful soul, his whole life
he came to mind: a very sad life indeed! She was the daughter of the first wife that his father
had: he had never known her mother. His father had married other twice, but had not lasted
long their stepmothers. Was said in the town that the lewd Hunchback killed their wives tickling.
This species monstrous imagination flattered the vulgar, it plunged into the ear to her classmates
Obdulia to tease him. Oh, how he had been listening and watching the contempt mixed with terror
that his father inspired! This was for her loving and forgiving. The poor did not understand
the reason in such contempt, but for the hump that nature had given him. It seemed, as natural,
enormous injustice. Did he perchance to blame for not being born right as others? Tears still
remembered the night he tied him some drunken youths with a belt and he plunged into the sea
several times between jokes and laughter. Poor father! In what state of anger and misery came
home! What the girl did not know was that these young people he had been caught in a dark portal
little decent situation. It is painfully surprised every time I felt the fear that inspired his
friends, and when any of these, more benevolent the others, showing compassion, irritábase strongly
supporting his father heat was very good and I loved her dearly. His nature had always been poor
and sick: several times feared for his life. Children suffered from severe bleeding from the nose,
that left her bloodied, annihilated. He spent two years, from twelve to fourteen, paralytic of both
legs. His father had led a number of spa establishments to no avail: until one day, not knowing
how or why, suddenly walked. Many other disorders experienced his body, especially in the adolescent
period, but the most notable, or at least the most caught people's attention and which came to
light where it was spoken in the village, was an aberration appetite drove her to eat cal walls.
In vain attempts were made to his father and teachers to extract this vice punished her in vain,
was closeted, he tied his hands. The slightest slip, and wall was peeling and making deep holes
in it.

This and other aberrations disappeared to become a woman. Had a period, from ten and six to twenty
years, his health was strengthened considerably, which made a dashing
and handsome young man.

Soon dried the flower, however. Your health quebrantose again, and although there was no repeat
disorders strange past, began to decline visibly to feel frequent ailments. The same father
and his friends attributed these conditions their long prayers and penance. He had undertaken
a disproportionate enthusiasm practices pious, to frequent the sacraments and stay for hours in the
church. Despite all warnings and pleas from his father, never wanted to curb his mercy, before
was daily increasing. The influence of D. Narciso probably had a good part of it.

Obdulia reached twenty-eight years without having had more than a love, when had seventeen. Was
engaged to a young man from Lancia long periods spent in Peñascosa
staying with friends.

These love came to be formalized. We talked about wedding, she made clothes the bride, was fixed
at the time. Suddenly the boy's father on the island of Cuba, and night in the care packages it and
takes it, no one knows where. After the abortion marriage, nothing. The character of Obdulia,
usually joyful, it was from then melancholy and reserved. No doubt God's love was for her a
consolation in this failure of human love. His character underwent both a strange excitement.
Before any censorship burst out laughing and was not impressed, and now, more delicate observation
moved her strongly, made him shed copious tears. His pride had been so nervous so excitable,
that the slightest shock to him as a deep stab sentíalo. His conscience constantly accused her of
pride. He maintained a struggle against itself cruel, and could not that singular calm irritability.

Fr
Gil sounded that day and thereafter (because Obdulia confessed often) with deep true spirit of
pious emotion, to which his struggle with himself was even more interesting. It was one of those
souls who had only been described in mystical books. His ineffable sweetness submission to
receiving the advice and warnings, seduced him and was disturbed
at the same time: worried because he was very suspicious of himself,
he feared could not understand the longings burning, the lofty recesses
of a being superior to all those who had hitherto known.

He started strong focus on the strange secrets of the young, their scruples, their joys and terrors,
their visions, because he was from time to time.