 Like not grieve or mourn, or grieve like not to mourn the other. He who seeks, therefore,
terrible and deep emotions that do not read or buy this librejo. If I manage that librejo not
bored, buy and read whosoever will discard or forget the terrible and profound emotions, under other
surface, entertaining and enjoyable.

THE KNIGHT OF AZOR I will do much more than rail and years, spoke
in the most elusive and craggy in the Pyrenees a splendid Benedictine
Abbey.

Eulogio Abbot passed by a miracle of virtue and science.

Worldly things went very wrong at that age.
Tremendous barbarity had invaded almost all regions of Europe. Everywhere
ferocious fighting, stealing and killing.

Almost all of Spain was subject to the law of Mohammed, but two or
three Scoreboard springs, bushes and cliffs where among Christians
took refuge.

Amid the deluge of evil, could be compared Abbey mentioned at the holy ark in which guarded the
knowledge and morality and that human culture could be saved from the universal havoc. Monks
had great faith in your prayers and God's mercy, but did not disdain the worldly wisdom. And
in order to defend against invasions of bandits, powerful and ruthless
barons or Moslems infidels, had fortified the Abbey as almost impregnable
castle rock, and kept hundreds of service men of the strongest weapons,
tested and working for war.

The abbey was very rich and famous, rich valleys of the Fertiliser in outline the monks had cleared, cultivated
with care and collecting them abundant harvests, and famous, it was about home education, where
many young men from all over France and Christian Spain that remained came to be instructed on arms and letters.
Among the monks had learned philosophers and theologians, and not a few who had fought with
glory in his youth before leaving the world. They either taught the arts of peace and war, as at
that time knew.

And then, depending on the nature of each learner, the peaceful and humble became priests or monks,
and the warlike and active lifestyle enthusiasts out there to be warriors and even great leaders. Fifty
novice in the abbey had continued. And all but in the hours devoted to exercises of chivalry, wore
the habit of the order. In an April afternoon, finished the run, novices out of the choir, where
they had been singing psalms, and were, as usual, to spend two hours of pleasure playing in a
courtyard. There was a novice of obscure origin, which was opposed to the nobility of that rightly
boasted most of the others. This novice was Spanish. Six years ago he had come to take refuge
in the convent out of nowhere.

The abbot gave him asylum charity, and he, with his deep humility, with its consistent application, with
rare intelligence deployed in the study and the strength and agility
he displayed in all bodily exercises, he won the will of the venerable
Servant of God, who loved him like a son and he naively admired.

From here you have the envy of other novices, and especially the French. Tratábanle with disdain,
made him a thousand taunts and insults directed to him, that he was
suffering with resignation evangelical.

This is why he called plaque. At that time the envy of the other novices had reached its height.
Placido had achieved brilliant success.

Had made a devout and inspired Latin hymn to the Blessed Virgin Mary, so full of beauty and
so rich in mystical love, which excited the monks, had sung in the choir,
giving the young poet a thousand praises and blessings. His bad fellow,
eager to humiliate him, and perhaps trusting that Placido was peaceful
and suffered, they confronted him, but he withdrew them with gentleness
and modesty, and got two of the most defiant to the last extremity
of the injury.
