 I
was well supplied with arms and ammunition; Chisco too, and me living at home, and to Chorcos,
and take care to tell me in time for him to stay to ensure the pretext the serious condition
of Mr. Celso. No longer fancy that, instead of waiting for the robbers in the doorway of the house,
they could put together an ambush in the immediate rocks it and shoot at close range as the door
is placed along the three. But this plan was less "Conclusive" than the other, and was exposed
to bankruptcy that they could get out faces of the assailants, much as we attend to justice, by all divine
and human laws. Still yet will weigh and would measure both plans if the case came in due time,
and opt for the better.

This and more I pondered mechanically by tacking inside the house after have fired the doctor.
Dando, suddenly, well, the point then, I decided to see how he was my uncle of his mortal anguish.
But I went in his room without a trace before one of the glass in the door into the sunshine
through the dining room. The continued darkening sky and the sparkling snow thickens. I liked
the symptom. My uncle, though between continuous feigned coughing, seemed calmer, and slept.
Facia, sitting away from him and attentive to whatever might happen, after I had I referred
to sick tiptoed to the bed, his eyes told me:

- Well it going, eh?

To which I responded with another look and a gesture

- From the best.

But God knows that neither the question nor the answer referred to the condition of the patient,
but the temporal aspect.

They spent two hours with no inside or outside the house occurred novelty worthy of being noticed,
and came, but without the usual noise, Lita and her mother and even the Don Pedro Nolasco. The
ups and downs, relatively happy, in a dark drama that unfolded, and walk around in those aged
area, much the spirit lifted me. Came three characters deeply impressed by the news that had given
them Neluco. The giant Greeting all, I shook hands in silence, with two tremendous shock that
soon I dismantle the arm at the shoulder, his granddaughter and his daughter, his eyes misted
over, I asked, loosened as they began to shelters, and in a low voice a little shaky, news drawer
on the current state of my uncle. Tell him, not as bad as they expected them and this encouraged
them to come very quietly to the door of the bedroom. Since there were watching the battle
that did not stop within the ruins of Don Celso, between the dream you drowsy and coughing he insisted,
until it rolled over in bed in one of those clashes, which left half suffocated, mouth and
eyes wide open and collecting air breathing, even with their hands. Then he hid quickly, almost
jumping in the Hall, and did both to me, not lost sight of the grief and sympathy painted on
the face. To all this, Don Pedro Nolasco, standing, rigid, motionless and silent, in the same
place that had been planted at the door. Access soon passed, and turned fall ill in the morass
of before ... But what the hell I saw that I was captivated Lituca more attention at that
time that the shock of his grandfather and the plight of my uncle? What was in it again and strange
to me? Well, quite simply, tears their eyes and pained expression on his boyish face, and
I wondered as I left my doubts: "But when this girl is cuter? "When he laughs and gurgles as the
birds the mountain, without sorrow or care, or feel, as now, in the
absence of pain themselves, compassion that will inspire others?

" And not knowing which of these two extremes to choose, I remained with the two, because it's
true that laughing or crying, I was really cute creature.

Fearing that too much impressed with frequent contemplation of that distressing picture human
misery, so new to her, advised her to refrain from entering the room the patient. To which
I replied with a force resolution to be imposed:

- Well, now you have to do, Don Marcelo! ... Go! Go! ... Do you think I am of fuss, just in
case? I will not say that at first I shrink a little, but then ... Go! Go! And finally, for the
chances are the mighty, and now or never. On my Poor Mr. Don Celso! ...

- Leave it, leave it - I said almost the same time the rosy Mari Pepa, throwing the last their coats
on a chair floating on top of which had just shed Lituca -, let in and out whenever you want,
which is good jacerse all, as she will jiciendo because I know it well. When you have to hold
off on that point, is to my father. Cayouette the news as a rock in the neck, and aturdióse as Nah,
you see him. I did not know if leaving home or bring; but vile Roncero of being alone and very
arrimao to cum, and jícele your taste, it was also ours, because it placed here, it may take
more or less to return home, and better than nowhere will the venturao with us wherever it
is. What is it's aterecío coldness, is not it, father? And look in the kitchen there is good
light, do not you, don Marcelo? Nah, you depart and be more of these things that Amurrio and
intimidate, while acompañao be fine with going in and out ... and
by the way, look that adds good for Tona what the ollon great that
we are three more mouths ... Daughter, what silly occur to one when
do not know what he says or take the times as they come!

Entendióme "So, Father? ... And Nah, you, Don Marcelo, what you have paez of this mine, as
if you were in my house?

Everything seemed fine, until the style, and taking precautions to avoid being Mari Pepa patient's
hearing and decision of Lituca, and in particular, face to put to declarármela. I drove myself
to the kitchen at Don Pedro Nolasco, who was left fetch and carry like a child confused, and
I sat on the couch in my uncle, leaving the care of Tona and Chisco,
which was around then, with orders to entertain him and encouraged
... and gave him the eat as much as requested, if asked.

I would return there often, and the ladies they would also from time to time. In the meantime, lots
of wood by hand and constantly good fire.

Before leaving the kitchen, I looked out the door cristalejos giving the balconazo of that
facade, and saw the colored clouds still blackening and whitening and a little peaks in front and
to the prairies of the valley by some sites.

When I go into my uncle, and had seized him and his surrounding Lituca and his mother, and
sent to their regular chores Facia, not being necessary their presence there then. In ordering
furniture, clothes and bottles and bottles of potions, straightened rugs and mats, which were
plentiful in the soil, graduated and headed in light of the paneled window and coming in the
door so not to give in full in the face of sick, and he even cleaned the cold, clammy sweat that
glistened on his forehead, and he arranged covers and pillows, but this, as well as when working
out, without make noise or raising dust or cause the slightest mortification to the patient.
I was glad contemplate that beneficent fairy work. My uncle, choking cough, awakening some sometimes
from their slumber, opened his eyes, his gaze fell upon us hampered
and voracious, and again then closed them to fall back into slumber.

When taking advantage of these joints to give a few sips of broth or "scoop" medicinal "he corresponded"
Tomabal between groans and angry protests stammered.

About noon it cleared a bit and we pondered much how bad it was. Came in Neluco this, and not
by courtesy tried to convince them otherwise.

But he urged to carry with patience her work, since he was not required unless a man of his faith
and his belt.

To which I replied the patient, with all the ire he could find in the pile of own ruins:

- Do you still get something of NA paez my patience, condenao? With the mita of what I have loved
you I see mediquín, quacks of demons, to see which side Put them ... Well man! ...

Intervened all inclusive Neluco to calm him down, and calmed down soon, but not the least said
idea of ??preparing for death. On this point the doctor had been
very upset.

He said, bid farewell to Don Sabas was absent from the place, helping the dying of another people whose
pastor was ill. Upon hearing he had sent a self, but as to the people had many sticks on the way
to measure and the snow was thickening by the minute, although Don Sabas would try not to lose
one when he heard what was happening in the house, Were you to know what time the evening
was coming, and if you arrive on time and!

Not to get too close to the giant of the table Castañalera impressed him so sadly, ate with
him at all lazy in the kitchen, served by Tona, while his mother
kept the patient.

That was not so tasty food for me and I did not forget other, rather than so recent date,
so elated that made those two diners in the latter, somewhat out of respect for the sadness
'official' of the house, and more for the pain the reasons for the sadness that I gave, ate
little and spoke less.

Less talked about yet they, don Pedro Nolasco, who never said a word, but, instead, what engulf
his so great!

Before we finished eating, we learned from Facia the patient had fallen asleep again and that "the snow
was trapeu so again, that was gustu." I remembered the absence of Don Sabas and the need to made
by my uncle, and I received the news with much pleasure as felt by the mother to give me Tona.

According
ran the afternoon, clutching the storm and the anxieties of the patient, was still struggling with
them eyes closed and unaware, apparently, of what was happening. God knows what we are worried
that these symptoms and was eager to insinuate what Neluco wanted, since it is not anticipated
to hint at, but what good would Overture while we did not hand the Priest? These questions and
subsequent questions, was the dark, a little after four, with a trio of snow on the valley
and snow thick and continuous and was alarmed me much, because supposed to Don Sabas on the
way and thought the dangers that could run. Meanwhile, the kitchen is filled little by little people
came to hear of Don Celso and volunteer for all sorts of chores around the house in those test
hours, and I do not dislike me so well together on the occasion of
so much trouble.

A Don Pedro Nolasco was happening the same, and even began to talk with fellow members and Laughing
allowed certain predictions about the disease and almost bit old friend your soul ... precisely
at the moment my uncle out of his stupor and after persistent to tour the room with dazed eyes, said
to distress of breathing, as if you could fit in the chest and an
air bubble to another without having vacated the same:

- Now ...
now is to really leave, my children, and prepare to travel to every
rule.

Charity make me tell the priest that I call for what he knows ... if there is any of packages that
I distinguish badly from here, because I do not know if the little light in the room, or because
it has started to fade and my eyes ... Sabas! ... Sabas! ...

All those present heard and callábamos, and we looked at each other not knowing what to say.
How to tell the priest was not in the house or in town? ... But so what obfuscation absurd it
was! What problem was to entertain the impatience, responding who had come to tell and that
was about to arrive?

This was going to answer me the same time I approached his bed with
Lita and Mari-Pepa, made a sea of ??tears as Facia was leaning against
the back wall with his arms folded, head bent over chest and eyes,
dry, saddened and still, stuck in the face of his corpse master, when
he returned to exclaim, but with a verve inconceivable in its miserable
state:

- Sabas!

Sabas! ...

By this I heard a harsh beating, as the result of Carrejo in the Hall,
and at the same time a voice that would respond to strong calls:

-
There he goes, jinojo!

...

I knew the voice, jumped back to the door, and saw that the lounge was up package that the
same could be a mountain jaral as should be all those moments, a gauge and hombrazo talares
Don Sabas, for he was snowed head and shoulders and everywhere I looked out a relief, however
little, Espido in their long and garments, and go and shake the very attempt, threw in soil dusty
snow falls, as falls from Matos shakes and shakes when the raging gale. I went to meet him and
shake to help wipe ... nothing, because of two detached bativoleos floating everything dripped
on him. This was, in a jiffy, smooth and mondo from head to toe, that is, short jacket and hair.
While it was stripped of those wraps and accessories, he said:

- Ah! because thanks to the gray horse has more guts than Paez, and was able to footman that
I carried him halfway to the legs, if not ... Jinojo! I tell thee that we do not live none of
the three, because I have seen snow as I live, but like this, go, go! ... What happens to poor
Don Celso, man? When I went there I say, not me took fright, because I was afraid I was coming
every day. The worst part was that he dying person, not just unhappy, and it was not to abandon
him in such a trance ... Well Care if you get for not finishing in the afternoon of God ... To all
this, the snow thick and closed roads. Look you what time to put this one in the agony! ... If what
Satan JINCEN the tooth for the souls, is much story! A well that it was not for lack of mine
warnings, but this Celsus, to be as a man of faith, is inherently so ...

All that we said already, and I almost cried, the better the cure
to his bedroom door friend, where he interrupted a call disjointed
reasoning as before.

- Sabas!

Sabas!

- Here I am, man! "- Replied the priest -.

Care is the subject! ... Look, with the rush better Sallu not you have them now ...

- That's it - my uncle grumbled -. For comfort of my ajogos, tíñeme and vociférame, pispajo!

-
Do you have to fight, man, do you have to fight! - Don Sabas said to him then that face of those
miserable ruins of his friend and comrade of his life, failed to contain the tears that flowed in
his eyes - or how I will scream! ... Well then would Thus, jinojo! ... but as I came, I could not
come, because of force majeure. And just think you then! Figúratelo, Celso! ... Go - added suddenly
interrupting his speech and passing look around the room and accented with a movement of his
arms, very significant -: here on all but the patient and me, because
what will happen between us, not support one other witness, who is
Lord and Judge of lives and souls.

We leave those who don Sabas sobrábamos and closed the door from inside.

I do not know what went through me then, but I declare that I was very touched and even cried,
hiding much like a weakness unworthy of strong men.

They came the tears shameful "the spread of other more free? Were torn my heart with grief to
see that, my relative in a state so miserable and compassionate? Am the produce that strange
scene he had just witnessed between the priest and the sick, through whose coarse warp distances
left to seek grants and admirable? Might have on them some of each and every one of these ingredients,
but the fact is that I cried, but not as well as women who gathered
with me, as they were entering on tiptoe the room where we were many
of the pundits in the kitchen that had been amassed in Carrejo after
the arrival of the priest, transfixed with grief ... and curiosity.

Facia The light bulb had lit in the bedroom to get out of it, and still kept in hand, lit up a little darkened
those jaws, and so I could glimpse of clogged, materially, huddled figures and oscillating looked
at us with impatience greedy, and even I could have sworn that back in the background, behind
all the mass, but rising one elbow on the head of more Tallud glistened
like two lanterns in a tunnel, big eyes giant green and bulging of
the Castañalera.

XXVII

After a while I asked Mari Pepa many things which, in its view, would be necessary there very soon.
I, delegating to her and her daughter had many responsibilities at home delivered them to the few
keys which he kept, and sent to Facia to put on your orders the rest. To send well and soon they
planned, it was necessary to return commentators to the kitchen, scattered herds here or there,
all choked ... and stank, and there was no way to squirm between
them.

They did so to point at my command, and the two women began to raid cupboards, wardrobes and drawers.
Facia guided, and I was like an automaton at three.

While ransacked the bottom drawer of the dresser in my room, opened
the door to my uncle Don Sabas and appeared in the hole.

I noticed that out crying and ran to him fearing that already completed all there, but since
I heard coughing halfway to the sick, and this was reassuring. Salióme to meet the priest,
and he said, wiping her eyes with a handkerchief of grass:

- Can not help it, what jinojo! ... more than one is accustomed to contemplate miseries and human finishers
... Because there are cases and cases, Don Marcelo, and this is one of the peel harder for the
poor priest. Sixty years of living, more than friends, like brothers, and each in his ministry
... And care if it was his height! ... something rejunde in the bowels ... it seems to me ... Suddenly
he says to the other one: "I go, because I'm leaving ... and never to return: so you ajústame
these accounts that I have to give to God, through you Mesmer how much I owe and how little and
bad that I have paid ... and you stay here, man and alone, until you get yours, you can not
take because no one is old, and you'll see what is jallarte day after day without longtime friend,
who looked and flesh of your flesh and filled the whole place, although he did not see him
... " Nah, you go and, moreover, namely if getting one's own, and catch him or catch him Asao,
because the flesh is weak, and Satan not sleeping, and if, for shots or TATS, we find ourselves
not in the other world. Because it goes well for luggage ... Yes, jinojo! and right as a juso
has to raise the soul. At the human level can not be assumed otherwise, to the preparation
he has done, after a life of charity, that I know by heart ... In
short, that it is going, and that we should not sleep to make all
the missing in the trance you see ... You have to viatical immediately,
and for that I go to church now.

Note here that is expected God with the pomp that is owed.

They had taken their talares to the kitchen to dry by the fire, and the priest go to pick them
up made people gathered in her the same advice as I am, and then dragged him, Chisco and Pito
least Salces, who ordered me to stay "watching the house, what might happen. " Precautions
idle luxury at that hour (around seven), with a dark as pitch, dropping
handfuls of snow, and with a roaring gale up the mountain, which were
scary.

Without worrying much about the poor Marmitón, who was left alone again, lounging, dumb and
amazed at the wooden chair and very leaning to fire, and returned to the apartment of my uncle
see what was going on it after the departure of Don Sabas. It was already known anyone interior,
and even now continue to be transformed by the two tales of the house. In the bedside, the red
damask quilt of the great days, and back on it, the broad and embroidery fold of a sheet of luxury
pillows, with pockets of very large garrisons stiff and escarole, and the patient himself,
with camisole clean, heated just before the brazier and perfumed with thyme, on the elastic thick
coat that harbored the trunk, along to bed, a carpet mat instead of forever on the dresser, falling
in graceful flags on the sides, another quilt of good house, and on it, expecting better destination,
the ivory crucifix, six silver candlesticks, a glass of holy water
and a sprig bay.

When I arrived, they occupied the two women who appeared to be little devils in your hands,
to replace, helped to Facia, the junk that was always at the bedside, with a square table taken from
my closet, where I used to read and send my correspondence. Ofrecíles my help for that task, but
the disdain with gestecillo Lita very deliberate and two annealed complimentary phrases. While
it took the ailing Facia artifact, tended them on the table another red damask quilt and the
quilt on a very white piece of cloth with lace of many drafts, then moved to the comfortable
at the table the crucifix of ivory, four glass candlesticks and holy water and the sprig of laurel;
then another rug in front of the table, then all strips and arenas that were found to form a
path so long as he could, four beatings on chairs before them in order, a pat over the bed
clothes, a look from afar to the whole so many different things ...
and what was already shipped.

My uncle, meanwhile, gasping and coughing and passing among the gnarled fingers of his right hand
beads and more beads of the rosary, and pray that says through clenched teeth, not take notice
what was happening around him, or answer more than a gesture to the
smaller question vinegary that he did.

Before he died his body was already in another world with the spirit. God was, God was God's only
expected.

I finished fourth, another work was undertaken outside nastier, for which not enough single
women. Mari Pepa scattered on the floor quilts and shawls that had gathered looting and walked
in a mass on the chairs, Lita chose and combined colors and sizes, Salces Pete and I, perched
on tall furniture needed, clavábamos in walls, and as high as we could, studded with spikes ...
up with nails "Trabaderos" and how we could have at hand in the cellar
weep holes that Chisco accumulated stocks of this species, which the
diligent and poring granddaughter of giant Castañalera of us was exquisite
lengthening with his hands, as scattered on the floor