 

After Zapana was killed, Carl took over his real and stole everything it had, with dam that
turned the Chucuito, and was waiting to Viracocha Inga, and sent adreszar the apartments and provide
them with maintenance. The Inca learned on the road to war and how Carl had expired, and although
the public have been loosely implied in secret I weighed about what happened, because there differences
between those two, I thought it easily be lord of Collao, and thought of it again briefly to Cuzco,
because it does not happen misfortune.

And as was already near Chucuito, Carl went to the chief men of his own to him receive him,
and was quartermaster é well served, and as a wish to return to Cuzco briefly spoke with Carl,
flattering words of flattery about how much had been loose for good wanderings, and had come
to help you all will, and that it might be true that whenever it would be a good friend, I wanted
to give to wife to his daughter. To which Carl replied that was very old and was very tired
that she begged him to marry his daughter with youth, as I had in so many to choose from, and
who knew he had to take as lord and friend and recognize in what he commands, and so, it would
help in wars and other things that I offer. Y then, in the presence of the most major who
were there, he ordered a Viracocha Inga large gold cup and made the tribute lawsuit between
them in this way: they drank a bit of women had wine, and then the Inca took the glass and said,
and putting up a very smooth stone, said: "The sign is this, that this vessel is here and
I did not move neither you touch him, as a sign of what was set to be true. "And he kissed, made
obeisance to the sun, and did a great tachycardia and areyto with many sounds, and the priests,
saying certain words, took the glass to one of the bays where they placed the temple oaths like
that they made for kings and lords. And having loose some days Viracocha Inga in Chucuito returned
to Cuzco, being served everywhere and very well received.

E and many provinces were settled, and could use improvements had better clothes and custom and
religions than before, governed by the laws and customs of Cuzco. Where he had been ruler of the
Inca city Urco, son of Viracocha Inca, which feature was very cowardly, reluctant, full of
vices and few virtues, but, as the eldest, had to happen on the rule of his father, who say that,
knowing these things, like many private of dominion and give it to Inca Yupanqui, his second
son, young man of very great value and adorned well-mannered, brave and courageous, and I
had the very great and high thoughts; more, the apricots and the main city did not want them
to be broken the laws and what was used and kept by ordination and status of the past, and
even knew how Inca was badly bent Urco, wanted him and no other to be king after the death
of his father. And this I have said so long, they say that desto warned me that since Urcos
Viracocha Inga EMBI their messengers to the city to get treated, and can not conclude anything
of what he wanted. And you come in Cuzco, he was made much he had received, and as I was very
old and tired, he decided to leave the government of the kingdom to his son and give him the tassel
and out the valley of Xaquixaguana Yucay and to recreate and be glad, and he reported with
the city because it could not happen Inca Yupanqui.

Dried apricots, and even all the other natives of these provinces, the facts Deste reyeron Inca
Urco. For his poquedades, want to enjoy not say who achieved the rank of kingdom, and thus
we see that the account that the quipos and romances are the kings who reigned in Cuzco, this silent,
which I will not, because in the end, bad or good, with vices or virtues ruled the kingdom and
sent a few days