 

A thought of this kind happening in the agitation caused by the passions, produces a effect similar
to a word judicious, incisive and penetrating, launched amid turbulent meeting. How often is
noted that a look expressive change the state of mind one of the bystanders, moderate or drowning
a frenzied passion! What has expressed that look? nothing more than a memory of decorum, a consideration
to the place or people, a friendly reproach, a delicate irony, nothing more than an appeal to common
sense the same as a sport of passion, and this has been sufficient for the passion subsides.
The effect of another gives us producírnoslo why we could not ourselves, if not equality, at least approximation?

L.
§

Perpetual childhood of man.

Little enough to lose the man, but not take much to correct some defects. Is weaker than bad,
far from satanic stubbornness that does not deviate evil never once embraced, on the contrary,
both good and evil and embraces leaves with ease. Is a child into old age, introduce themselves
with all the seriousness possible, but in the end it is childish to himself in many things and
ashamed. It said that no great big man seemed to his valet, that contains much truth. And it
saw the man closely, you discover the little things that debase. But more things he knows himself
that his valet, and this is still less large their own eyes, for this even in his prime, you
need to cover with a veil of childish that cherishes in his heart.

Children laugh and frolic and gambol, and then moan and rage and cry, often without knowing why:
do not do the same to her as an adult? To give children a boost of its organization the good or
bad state of health, the provision that affects atmospheric pleasant or unpleasant; disappearing in these cases
changes the state of their minds: do not remember the time before, or think in the next, only governed
by the posters that are currently experiencing. Does not that same man a thousand times more serious,
more serious and judicious?

§ LI.

Moving D. Nicasio in a few hours.

Don Nicasio is a man of advanced age, calm and mature trial, full of knowledge, experience, and
rarely carried away from the shock of the moment. Everything weighs in a healthy balance of reason,
and will not let this weight bearing for a dram passions of any kind. He speaks of a very serious
undertaking for which has its world practice, and his understanding at that particular kind
of business. D. Nicasio is at the disposal of the proponent, has no difficulty in fully enter
into the business, and even engage in it a part of his fortune. Quite sure not to lose, if obstacles,
do not give care, he knows how to remove them, if there are powerful opponents, Don Nicasio
not make a dent. Other feats of riding but has been carried out, much business but has had
to deal with thorny, more powerful rivals had to overcome. Embedded the idea that flatters, is expressed
with ease and speed, vivid gestures with his eyes is very expressive, his youthful appearance,
would seem to have returned to their twenty-five Aprils if a few
gray hairs poking out one side of the prototype does not reveal treacherously
trophies year.

The business is concluded, lacks some detail; quedais called to round in another interview, tomorrow?
no sir, no delays, no activity of the consent gift Nicasio, we must end it all today, in the afternoon.
D. Nicasio has withdrawn his home, or in his person or in your family,
or any of their stuff has been no accident unpleasant.

It is the appointed hour, acudís on time, and ye in the presence of the hero of the morning.
D. Nicasio is something broken in her dress, thanks to heat that
suffocates him.

Middle tempted on the couch, I returned the greeting with a loving
effort, but with obvious signs of fastidiosa lassitude.

- Let us
see, Mr. D. Nicasio, if we were finally agreed.

- Time we speak ....
Don Nicasio answers, and his face contracted with samples of boredom.

-
As V. I have been quoted for this evening .....

- Yes, but ....

-
As V. like.

- Now you see, but we need much thought, what do I know
!....

- What is difficult, I know that there, only to see him to
V. so cheerful this morning, I confess, all came to and level road.

-
Encouraging if ..... and I'm still ..... yet, however, should not
take too much hurry ..... Finally we'll talk, he adds, with a statement
of who you want not commit.

Don Nicasio is another, express your feelings, none of the daring,
the activity of the morning, no project so easy to run, then the obstacles
mattered little now are almost insurmountable meant nothing rivals
are now invincible.

What happened?

Have you been given to D. Nicasio other news? has not seen anyone.

Have you thought about the business? not more than he had agreed.

What has happened since to cause so great revolution in spirit, changing their way of seeing
things, and so pitifully breaking its impetus youth?

No, the explanation for this is simple, do not look great causes are very small. First, now the heat
is atrocious, which certainly is far from airing of a fresh breeze
as happened in the morning; D. Nicasio is deeply depressed, the time
is heavy, the sky is overcast and looks threatening storm.

The food was also something indigestion, and sleep for a nap was too short, and not without some
nightmare. Do you want more? Are not these reasons powerful enough to disrupt the spirit of a
serious man and change their views? Despite all appointments, who has led you to his home under a
constellation so unhappy?

This is the man, the least thing puzzled him, he makes another. Attached to a body spirit subject
to a thousand different impressions, which happen so quickly and received with equal ease the
movement of the leaf of a tree, participates in a way that inconstancy and variety, moving
too often to objects that only the changes he has experienced.

§ LII.

Feelings by themselves are bad rule of conduct.

The above prove impossible to direct the behavior of man by just a feeling; and literature of
our time, how little is concerned with communicating ideas of reason and moral and apparently
does not intend to arouse feelings but forgets the nature of man, and causes a disease of immense
importance.

Giving the man at the mercy of one sentiment, is to throw a ship without
a pilot in the middle wave.

This equates to proclaim the infallibility of the passions, to say: "Always work instinctively,
blindly obedient to every movement of your heart, "this amounts to deprive man of his intellect
and free will, to become a mere instrument its sensitivity.

It has been said that great thoughts come from the heart, also could be added to the heart out
big bugs, big raves, big extravaganzas, major crimes. Heart goes out everything is a superb harp
bouncing all kinds of sounds from the horrendous infernal din of the caves to the most delicate
harmony of the celestial regions.

The man who has no other guide than his heart, is the plaything of a thousand different inclinations,
and often contradictory: a pen lijerísima through a countryside where prevailing winds, has
no more varied directions and irregular. Who is able to count or classify the myriad of feelings
that occur in our chest, in a very short time?

Who does not has noted the astonishing ease with which one goes from the fans live to work,
to a almost insuperable repugnance? Who has not felt sympathy or antipathy, to the simple presence
a person without any reason that may be brought it, and without the offer made hereinafter further
grounds that impression? Who has not admired repeated sometimes be transformed in a few moments,
from the folding equilibrium of the boldness to timidity or vice-versa, without there being
any ostensible cause mediated? Who ignores the changes that feelings suffer with age, with the
difference of state, social status, family relationships, health, climate, season, atmosphere?
All as it affects our ideas, our senses, our body, in any manner whatsoever, all adjust our feelings,
and hence the amazing inconsistency that is evident in the are abandoned to all the impulses
of passion, hence the volatility of the organizations too sensitive, if they have worked hard
to master.

The passions have been given to man as a means to awaken and put in motion as tools to serve
your actions, but not as directors of his spirit, not as guides for their behavior. It is sometimes
said that the heart does not deceive; terrible mistake! What our life is but a tissue of illusions with
which the heart deceives us?

If ever we succeed, surrendering blindly to what he inspires us, how many and how many us astray!
Do you know why is attributed to heart the instinctive wisdom? because it calls attention
extremely one of his hits, when we know that there are so many its mistakes, that we cause strange
guess surprise to see him through his blindness, when there are so many times you find folly. For this
we recall his exceptional success, in favor of this will forgive all their mistakes, and we honor
him with foresight and tact can not own or possess.

The founding of the moral sentiment, is to destroy: arranging his conduct to the inspirations of feeling,
is doomed to not follow any set, and to have it very often immoral and fatal. The trend in literature
which is currently in vogue in France, which unfortunately also introduced
in our Spain is deify the passions and the passions deified are extravagance,
immorality, corruption, crime.

§ LIII.

No sense impressions, but moral and right.

Human behavior and with respect to moral as to what is useful, should
not govern impressions but by immutable rules, morally, by the maxims
of eternal truth as useful advice for the right reason.

The man is a God in whom all things are sanctified just to be in it, the impressions it receives,
are modifications of nature that do not alter the eternal laws, one thing just keeps justice,
for being nasty; something unfair, please him, no washing of injustice. The implacable enemy
avenging dagger plunges into the bowels of his victim, he feels in his heart a fierce pleasure,
and its action is no less a crime, the sister of charity that assists the patient, which soothes
and comforts, more than once suffered atrocious tortures, but why not stop its action be heroically
virtuous.

Apart from the moral, and attending to what is useful, things need to be treated under to what
they are, not what affect us, the truth is not essentially on our
impressions but objects, when we put those opposed to these, we go
astray.

The world is not the real world of poets and novelists: it must be considered and treated as
is itself, not sentimental, not fantastic, no dreamer, but positive, practical, prosaic.

§ LIV.

A good feeling, the exaggeration makes it bad.

Religion does not stifle the feelings, only moderates and directs, the caution does not reject
the help of warm passions, just beware of its dominance. Harmony has not to produce in humans
with the simultaneous development of the passions, but with its repression; counterweight which are
not only working to stop the other passions, but principally reason and morality. The same opposition
of good to the evil inclinations, no longer healthy, when she presided as mistress of reason,
for the good inclinations not good but as reason directs and moderates: left to themselves, are
exaggerated, are bad.

A brave charge of a job is dangerous: the risk grows by the hour, to around their comrades are falling:
the enemy ever closer, there is scarcely hope sustained, and the order to withdraw is not forthcoming.
Discouragement comes a moment in the heart the brave, "to die without any fruit? The duty of discipline
and honor be extended " to a useless sacrifice? Would not it be better to abandon the post,
excuse in the eyes of the head imperative with the need? "No, answers his generous heart, that is
cowardice that cover with the name of prudence.

What would your colleagues, your boss, how do you know? "Ignominy or death? for death, without
hesitation, death. "

Can you blame the reflection that the brave officer has sought to sustain itself, against the temptation
to cowardice? This desire of honor, this horror to the ignominy of going through coward, has
not been in it a feeling? yes, but a feeling noble, generous, with which strength and influence
has strengthened against the wiles of the afraid, and has done his duty. That passion led to an
object as well, has produced excellent results, perhaps without it there would have been achieved:
in those critical moments, terrible, that the noise the cannon, the shouts of the enemy nearby,
and the cries of dying comrades, began to enter the fear in her chest,
the whole reason one might have succumbed, but called to his aid to
a passion more powerful than the fear of death: the feeling of honor,
the shame of appearing cowardly, and reason has triumphed, the duty
has been fulfilled.

The order came to retreat, the officer meets his body, having lost in the post fatal to most
of his soldiers .-- I had it to V. dead, a jest told of his friends will not have V. Forgot the
parapet .-- The officer believes outraged calls to Heat a satisfaction and to mocking the few
hours the rash has ceased to exist. The same feeling a little before boost a heroic action, just
to cause a murder. The honor, shame to spend a coward, had held the brave, to the point of making
despise his life: honor, shame to spend a coward, have stained their hands with blood of a
reckless friend.

The passion directed by reason rose to heroism; delivered to the blind impetus has been degraded
to the crime.

The emulation is a powerful feeling, excellent preservative against laziness, against cowardice,
and against many passions oppose useful exercise of our faculties. Of It takes the teacher
to encourage students, it uses the parent to restrain the evil tendencies of some of their children,
it is worth a captain for obtain from their subordinates, perseverance, courage, heroic deeds.
The desire to advance in comply with the duty to carry out big business, despite not painful
fact from us all we could and we had the blush of seeing exceeded by those whom we could overcome
feelings are very fair, noble, excellent us forward on the right
path.

In them there is nothing reprehensible, they are the source of many virtuous actions, resolutions
sublime, amazing exploits.

But if that same feeling is exaggerated, aromatic nectar, sweet, comforting, it is converted
in deadly humor that flows from the mouth of a poisonous reptile, the emulation is envy. The
feeling in the background is the same, but has led to a too high point, the desire in advance
has become a burning thirst, grief of being exceeded, is already a grudge against which exceeds,
that there is no rivalry that brother very well with friendship more intimate, which sought
to soften the humiliation of the vanquished samples lavishing affection and sincere praise
for their efforts; than happy to have won the laurel, he hid not to hurt the pride of others, is
itself a real despair, there is anger not for lack of progress themselves, but by the view of
outsiders, there is real hate leads to that, there is a passionate
desire for lowering the merit of his works, is blasphemy, is the disdain
with which masks a bad compressed fury, there is a sardonic smile,
which scarcely enough to cover the torments of the soul.

Nothing more conformable to reason that feeling of self-worth, which is exalted holy when brutal
passions excite a shameful action, which recalls the holy man of their duties, and will not
consent to disgrace missing them the feeling that inspires you the attitude that you should
take, according to the position they occupy the feeling that fills majesty the king's countenance
and manners, which gives the face and manners of a pontiff holy anointing gravity and August, which shines
in the eyes of fire of a great captain and his FURTHER RESOLVED, bold, stunning, the feeling
that to the joy that does not let broken, or the gloom ignoble misfortune, that points to
the opportunity of a prudent silence, or suggests a decent word and sign, which separates the friendliness
of the trivial familiarity openness of abandonment, the naturalness of the rude manners of freedom,
that feeling in order to invigorate the man with no harden, not soften him relax, which makes
it flexible without inconsistency, and continuing without stubbornness. But that same feeling,
if not moderate and directed by reason, pride is the pride that swells the heart, upright forehead
gives to the countenance an offensive aspect and manners to an irritating affectation between ridiculous;
the pride that fades, making it impossible to advance, which raises obstacles to himself in
the execution, which inspires great evils, which causes the hatred
and contempt, makes unbearable.

What more reasonable sense that the desire to acquire or maintain the necessary equipment for
care own, and those whose care or charge a duty affection! He warns against extravagance, away
from the excesses of a licentious life preserves, inspires love to sobriety, temperance in all
desires, liking to work. But this feeling led to exaggeration, requires fasting that God does
not accept, cold in winter, heat in summer, poor health care, abandonment disease, mortified with
deprivation family, denies any favor to his friends, close your hand to the poor, cruelly hardening
the heart for all sorts of misfortunes, tormented with suspicions, fears, anxieties, prolongs
vigils, begets insomnia, pursues and agitated by the presence of
robbers spectra the brief moments of sleep, making it unable to get
break

The rich miser in the narrow bed And wake up sweating with
terror.

    
    

See how much truth because with them I said that the exaggeration of good feelings makes bad,
that feeling alone is a safer guide, and often dangerous. The reason is that must guide according
to the eternal principles of morality, the reason is who should be routed even in the field of
utility. For this man never takes too self-knowledge, no effort is of more moral approach to acquire
that and successful, who teaches us the practical truth, the truth must prevail to all acts
of our lives.