 Faust quiets more fondly than reasons, and finally arranges an appointment
with her.

Here are details on which we dare not enforce decisions. No doubt it is admirable force Goethe's
creative, so real that we are introduced to Margarita and for that surrounds art of candor,
that, notwithstanding all its faults, continues to seem pure and innocent, as if he had evil
in it a god who steals responsibility and free will. Love has been the work of love and not the devil,
but in the direction it takes so beautiful passion, and the devil is involved. No wonder God has
made the same permission to try to Fausto, no wonder he is bound with him. Crimes are needed;
matter is born and is increasing the tragic terror; but despite this, and despite a lot of
evil has to be in the story that such a role does the devil, no one could have excused the detail
of narcotics, Margarita given by her mother during the night to unveil and not surprised at
arms of his beloved? Although Margaret has the certainty that evil will not narcotics his mother,
is not horrible yet to be given, and then have your hand in that violent dream in that mockery
of death, as she has with the man she loves? In all manner of sins are the most and least. No
missing women who tease their mothers and their husbands, but we are certain that for every
cent, just will not discard a the use of narcotics. Even the most conscienceless libertines figure
we have to hurry by all means, and though will not find any, they will stop before proposing
scared her friends this way of numbing the mother or husband to have them then peacefully. Moreover,
Margarita, who was alone in the house of Martha, unscrupulous woman and all was paid, what need was to
infuse his mother sleep?

We say that infanticide is worse, that infanticide is the most heinous of crimes; but infanticide
was necessary to motivate the torture of Margarita, whose goodness is safe thanks to delirium.
Mad, throws his son into a pond, where they drowned, while her mother deliberately gives narcotics
throughout the clearing of his trial, and without the narcotic remove or put the argument or
development of the action. Is a refinement of mischief realism and sinful, and is entirely useless
to spare