 Just remember having enjoyed a day of full
health. I've always had a quite frail, and have suffered almost constantly ... sometimes one, sometimes
another ... usually the stomach.

- Poor digestion?

- Yes, sir, have always been very difficult.

- With pain?

- I have not had until recently. During childhood I have suffered much. At fourteen or fifteen
I started to feel better, eat with increased appetite and fat I put
up because, of course, my temper, but when I reached twenty, I do
not know if the much study or derangement meals, or lack of exercise,
or all of this together, again exacerbated my illness, and I can say
that for a long time, my life has been an ordeal.

Next Best life changing, but I have become to fall for some time.

-
What jobs do you do?

The young man hesitated a moment and replied:

- I'ma writer.

- Mala profession is a nature like yours. The circumstances with which you work usually ...
to late at night, harassed by the lack of time ... lack exercise ... and intellectual work,
which already is debilitating ... What you say that in some time
now the disease has intensified the stomach?

- The stomach, not so
much: the worst is the weakness I feel in my body from For three or
four months.

A total lack of strength. As I climb four stairs, I get tired.

I can not lift the weight more insignificant ...

- Have you had any syncope, dizziness or feel you head?

- Dizziness,
yes, sir, but I've never even lost consciousness.

However, in recent often times I feared falling into the street.

- Do you cough you?

- A month ago I have a dry little cough, sputum, and on Monday I have
a little blood.

I was alarmed enough and went to see a doctor who knew ...

- Is the blood came in the form of vomiting or mixed with saliva?

-
Just a little bit between the saliva.

- Before, you had I not consulted?

-
Yes, sir, many times, but as it was a chronic illness, I was arranging
with the old remedies: baking soda, magnesia, Quassia ...

- Well,
give me your hand.

Dr. Ibarra was a long time looking at the pulse of youth.

Then carefully observed his eyes, eyelid down to it.

He stood a few moments thought.

- Would like to acknowledge the chest.

- When you like. Do I need to undress me?

- It would be better. This is not cold.

The young man began to take off quickly. Seemed calm at first sight. However, he I watched him
carefully, notice that had grown a little pale his face, and his hands were trembling. When she was
naked from the waist up, his eyes questioned doctor. He considered the torso miserable before him,
with deep shame. Ribs could be counted at a respectful distance: the neck out of its long and
narrow shoulders thin, and adorned with a prominent Adam's apple. Sign that made him lie on the
sofa and went to out of a closet a stethoscope. Then he placed his knees beside the sofa,
and began recognition. The doctor lingered for a long time to feel and repalpar chest, supporting
fingers and giving repeated taps on them. On the right side something caught his attention, because
they went there more often. Nothing disturbed the silence of the cabinet. The young man watched
askance at the doctor's impassive face. A fly began buzzing around sadly them. But sadder still
buzzing thinking by the brain of our patient, who I felt life slip out when he was on the threshold.
Every moment of the he had enjoyed flocked to his imagination: the
life he had adorned and smiling like a beautiful woman waiting for
him: to his pain and loss seemed kind at the moment I would be notified
that he would feel them forever.

However, if your ideas and put him sad memories, failed to relent.

There in his soul such a fund of strength and pride, which he considered
unworthy frightened by the prospect death.

The doctor took the instrument, he put on his chest and put his ear.

- Tosa you ... well ... not so strong ... Now you breathe hard and
rhythmically.

There was a long silence.

- Turn you a little ... well ... Tosa you again ... Just ... You breathe
hard ...

Another silence, during which the patient began to caress
a horrible idea.

- Now you talk.

- What do you want to talk?

-
Recite poems, as you are literate.

- Well, recite the ones I agree
at this time - said the young man smiled bitterly.

And he began to say aloud the poetry of Andrew admirable Chenier, entitled Le Jeune malade.

When
he had recited a few verses, the doctor interrupted him:

- Enough ... Follow your breathing quietly.

King became silent. A very long while he was a doctor with an attentive ear to in the depths of
our young befell chest, exploring the slightest movements, more subtle sounds, like the thief
who was night to enter a house.

A Sometimes she thought she felt the footsteps of death, such as
those of his enemy soldier, and the front wrinkled old man, but returned
to calm at the time, acquiring indifferent expression.

His attention was deepening.

Meanwhile, the patient had fixed his eyes on the ceiling, where the
signs were beginning to draw a grim decision.

Puckered eyebrows: the black pupils goodbye looks increasingly tough and sad.

The doctor finally lifted his head and coldly asked:

- What doctor
has told you that was in second grade of consumption?

- None - said
the patient with the same coldness.

The old man stood up briskly, and looked bewildered.

Then he crossed himself, exclaiming:

- Jesus, what an atrocity! - And smiling benevolently: - Have you made a crazy girl. What you have
earned to tell him he was dying?

- Know in a doubt.

- Thank you, what then?

- Then ... then ... then I do not know what had happened.

- Yes, I know you ... but better not say it. Fortunately, it went well the trick, because I
need not say that you do not have any lung injury: there is only
a slight disorder in the functions.

What you need, obvious to anyone, because it leads written on the
face: is the nineteenth century disease, particularly of large populations.

Are you anemic.

Inveterate dyspepsia who has not charged nor any injury stomach,
and is completely curable.

Not you, therefore, nothing to fear, for now.

I stress these words for you to understand the urgency to get a priest,
because the Eventually, the disease breeds and have you thought ...
And now offered for me serious difficulty.

Yo I can prescribe some medications to alleviate, but only momentarily.

Long as there are causes, not cure the disease radically, and will make you suffer life cruelly
and completed after her too soon ... Tell me you with frankly ...
We, the doctors, we are the confessors of the men who do not believe
in confession ... Are you married or single?

- Single.

- But you
have a woman who loves him too ...

- Perhaps ...-- said the young
man smiling and blushing slightly.

- Would you strength to get away
from it for a while?

The patient's face crumpled, and his eyes became fixed and hard expression.

- I do not want anything else.

- Perfectly ... And could you also leave your business and spend a
long time in the field, doing absolutely nothing?

- I think so.

-
Then we have saved.

No matter whether one place or another where you go, in the North or in the south, it is essential
that you rest and breathe cleaner air, to run you among the trees a few times and others in the sun,
you eat soft foods and nutrients, you get up early and not withdrawn later that barter, in short,
artificial life and unhygienic leading the other natural and simple, and give that poor body
which is crying out.

The old doctor was extended still quite giving advice about his conduct in the future. The young
man listened religiously, giving the reason in it. When he finished, got up and wanted to pay. The
doctor would not consent: I felt very sympathetic towards the young writers, and in this case knew
that the sympathy was even alive. Carried him off from hand to the door of the room, and gave
him another short farewell speech, giving affectionate pat on the shoulder

- Do not be mad, not crazy, girl. Be strong for life, you do not know what will happen when the
release ... And above all, more a bird in hand ... Men who are like
you courage and intelligence, should be reserved for large and useful.

You heal, to strengthen you your body and see how then do not feel such contempt for the existence
... Goodbye, young ... Do not let you write me soon since his retirement,
to send you a recipe.

We do not want to give drugs. I need to know the influence of the
change of life and Weather on your body ... D. Is your name Andrés
Heredia, is not it?

... Perfectly: I will not forget ... Goodbye, Mr. Hall, do not let
you leave Madrid as soon as possible.

Walking looked around the room, the doctor met with a client, sitting on a couch coughed pressing her temples
with his hands. Lowering his voice, said the young man's ear:

- The poor will heal in another field other than that you are visiting ... Goodbye, dear, goodbye.

II

Andrés
Heredia in child lost his father, a Supreme Court judge, who had the weakness of marriage, and old,
with a niece of eighteen years. His late marriage and some losses of fortune, that the slump
in public funds had experienced gave him in the grave. The unfortunate result of this union
was a sickly child and often, who grew up laboriously by dint of pampering and care.

On the death of his father inherited real income 40,000 which, together with the widow of his
mother, I agreed to live with being in court. The young widow did not remarry, but no lack of
good joints for it. Encrypted the yearnings and hopes all of his life in that child, who needed his
maternal request not to blow die of the many ailments he suffered in childhood: she was a joy to
intense and continuous irlas conquering and see more and more safe and robust. The boy, at the same time,
he discovered a sensitive natural and clear: adored his mother and proud with victories in the
school: every month diploma of honor, on all outstanding or significant tests advantage. Later,
when he reached sixteen years, brought him a newspaper which appeared some verses signed by him. Flattered
in his vanity of mother, the poor wife began to mourn. Since then, Andrew's career was set:
he was a poet. There was no Little Newspaper Literary Magazine of provinces was not compromised
to add some of his tearful compositions or floral poetry contest or game where it won a silver
inkstand, a book glossy, and perhaps another to the same natural flower poetasters reserved
most illustrious. The genre that most stood out were the legends. With a stone cross, a rebujos
couple of riders in separate layers, a well-appointed dressing room, a lady of rare beauty a castle
with pointed windows and a full moon night, our youth had enough to assemble a crib six thousand
devils very interesting, able to put goosebumps to anyone. When he had quite a number of compositions,
published (on request of some friends) a volume, and then another, then another. Flow cost him,
but it was well spent, because the newspapers where he had friends began to call him "the inspired
poet, our D. particular friend Andrés Heredia.

"Unfortunately, his mother died before seeing the pinnacle of glory died quickly from a pulmonary
consumption. Andrew, who only twenty years at the time, had the curator of his property to a
brother of the deceased, but did not want to live with him, and moved with some of his belongings
to the inn.

Here begins for the young Heredia one was very different from the rest of his former life. Passed
Suddenly the warm atmosphere of his home in the cool of the street, the sweet life and quieter than
the loving care of his mother made him look, the disheveled and nomadic of the inns. Too much
freedom it hurt. Its nature has changed considerably since the sixteen years. The rigorous
method, the orderly conduct, had managed to give a relative strength, so that, when he moved to
the inn, was strong enough to enjoy life. Moreover, the curator was wrong very very much for support
with relief. Of all these advantages began using long our young, appearing in the world with the
verve and the arrogance of a few years. He trod the theater often, and cafes and lounges, and
even less holy places, friendships and debts contracted; despeñose in affairs that are not
love. All smiled at first. But not much happened time without nature give the cry of alarm.
Was again raised by the former condition stomach, harsher than ever, the lack of method in the food
and the disdain of appropriate remedies. And the constant suffering that poisoned all the
pleasures, began significantly affect its character: it became a hypochondriac, pessimistic,
irritable. Came a moment that was forced to withdraw from social commerce, not to have every
moment a brawl. It was susceptible, suspicious, a word puzzled him, a look wounded him, not eight
days passed without the rims with a friend for any trifle. One of them, a doctor, after some
violent scene, he said he would not discuss more until it stand in cure. This made him come
to himself, he realized he was actually ill, fled with particular care any occasion of dispute,
and began to jaroparse remedies are usually given against bile.

He was not wrong with them: his stomach sang, ate with more appetite, and after he could return
to ordinary life, but resentful and broken.

At this time peace was given temporarily to the muses, and declined to write prose, not vile, but
poetic and curly like no other. Entered the magazine in a newspaper, on the occasion of soirees,
banquets, plays, bullfights and all sorts of public holidays and private, began to drop the
pen one million frasecillas pretty clever and neat, that there was nothing but praise from the ladies.
And as a natural consequence of the vogue Articles, also reached unprecedented him favor in the
halls. He was tried fine gentle, elegant, moms blocked him with smiles and compliments. But it was
not for the love lawful, liked to bite into the forbidden apple, and it is known that soon
gave many and heavy snacks. Certainly one of them cost him an affair of honor, which came slightly
wounded, but that earned him prestige among females. Lately, he had the bad chance to bind to
a woman not young, nor beautiful, nor rich, but so clever and expert, so infernal attractive in
a short time managed to tie his hands and feet, have you exhausted and submissive at his feet
like a slave. She was the wife of a senior employee who is his wife's adventures did not seem
to cold or heat. Andrew ceased to run into this woman's life left merry and boisterous, and
even treatment of his close friends, did not think since then more than to serve and celebrate their
idol. And in this way has been more than two years, losing love those fools their physical and
intellectual, because he had left the study, and even the pen and
it did not help to draw more than some bland compositions in honor
of his lady.

Upon reaching the older entered the free disposal of their property, he found not a little
diminished, thanks to good air your uncle knew them while handling. On this occasion there Strong
arguments and despondency among them, and even threats of litigation, he finally settled the
matter by informal intervention of some friends, not without losing Andrew in the transaction much
of their wealth. These troubles and all others are compensated for sweets its embarrassing moments
that you love posing. But at last, were also losing a lot of in its appeal: the employee's wife
was determined to abuse their power and demand higher sacrifices, while love is going to spend
on the chest of young evaporated. This there was tension between them, some more than a few quarrels
and uneasiness.

Andrew concluded by wishing a break, but was carried away from the usual, without the strength
to make a decision violent, as is always stale relationships.

Presented itself after it was inevitable. His health, always drawn and trembling, resented alarmingly.
They were not only unique thinness, fatigue and loss of appetite, the phenomena which warned in
his body. In recent times began to feel acute stomach pain at certain times of day, which left
him very depressed and sad. When I attacked on the street, clutching tightly the painful with
the fist of the stick, and so he walked with his face pale and distraught,
not hear or see anything around happened.

Fortunately, lasted a short time: the bismuth who prescribed the friend who used to got noticeable
relief available.

But a few days, sputum with blood, resulting in coughing, he was appalled. Would consumptive?
Such a thought filled him with dread. Never thought of death, but as an artistic he used for his
romantic poems, taking it out to shine, too by the way, support of the sincerity of his yearning
love, and as a means of achieving a balm for their penalties. But now, death was presented in a
much less sympathetic, pale, emaciated, stinking, their bony hands clutching at the fatal scythe
segarle warning to the neck; death was not consonant or gravel, completely naked rhetorical finery.
In his presence felt very different impression which had inspired the poem Love and Death, which
few months earlier he had published some literary magazine called The Ecos del Manzanares: felt
cold and scared and clinging to life without condition, which had so often cursed in verse.
He spent two days in extraordinary agitation, locked in his room, without seeing your friends
or other living rather than the home that served their short parts,
unresolved consult with a physician of experience for fear of getting
fatal certainty his misfortune.

The agitation, however, relented and became, as usually happens in depression and sadness. And
little by little, this depression, which very few escape in human identical case, vigorous
plant sprouted like resignation, or rather a stoic indifference male and born of the shame
of having been afraid. Alzose bravely to his heart the terrible ghost of phthisis, and said, "No one
dies but once ... Days before or days then ... Bah! Who cares? "And for a supreme effort of will was
serene, completely serene, watching his own mind with noble pride. Just a thought did relent
gently: "My mother died of consumption, there going to go hang with her." And shed some tears he
refreshes the soul. After all arranged things in mind, drawing a perfect bill of his will, washed,
dressed neatly and left home in search of the doctor's Ibarra, one of the most celebrated doctors
of Madrid, determined to know the truth of his state and while he still had life. Something
sinister, frightening, floating above its resignation, but he dared
to define it.

How different were your impressions when you leave the house! He entered a few moments by indifferent,
cold, in the spirit fainted and unsteadily. Upon leaving, he beat strong heart, his eyes shone,
cheeks were colored, dancing feet step up the ladder on a firm and cheerful. Ibarra is the doctor,
the doctor most famous court, a respected scholar in Europe, a demigod
of science, he had to promise life.

Life! To set foot on the street was beautiful and kind as ever. The sun slipping by the transparent
glass sky with sweet repose, and its rays fell on the city as soft and divine blessing. People
ran through the streets in lively movement, bright panes of the windows and balconies, crossed the
carriages to ride shaking the floor, and live firing of its wheels and pleasing reflections, a
mechanical piano raised its sounds in the middle of the street adjoining the toast of Lucretia,
a seller of purple crossed with the basket in hand, leaving behind if the environment scented;
escuchábanse the laughter of children playing on the balcony of a mezzanine, there was the pretty
blonde head of a young woman from another balcony explored much higher street, preventing the
rays of sun screen with pearly hand ... Everything was nice and pleasant,
all beat all singing, all gleamed