 It is night .=

<sc> Wrapped first </sc> .-- Gross!

<sc> Muffled
second </sc> .-- The gross will be it.

- Do not you see the way?

-
Do not you have eyes?

... I almost knocked to the ground.

- I'll go my way.

- And I go
mine.

- Go enhoramala.

= (Continuing to the right.) =

- What a guy!

- If I catch you, kid ... = (Stop threats.) ='ll Teach you to talk
to people older.

= (Observation of the wrapped second.) = But I know that face.

One hundred thousand a horse!

... Are not you ...?

- Well you know me.

That face, if it is not the devil, is that of D. José Ido del Sagrario.

- Felipe of my backings! = (Dropping her veil and opening his arms.)
= Who you were to know as entapujado?

You Aristotle himself. Give me a hug ... other!

- What a find!

Believe me, D. Joseph, I'm glad to see you more than if I had met
a bag of money.

- But what you're getting, son?

What is your life?

- Long story. And what of you?

- Oh ... let me take breath.

In a hurry?

- Not much.

- Well, let's take a paragraph. The night is cool, and not a thing we do in this gathering abandoned
square. Come and coffee Lepanto, which is not far.

I invited.

- Convidaré me.

- Hello, hello ... There seems to be funding.

- So, so ... And what are you doing?

- Me?

Frankly, of course, when I say that I'm throwing the best hair that I has seen, can not believe
it.

- Well, Mr. de Ido. I had asked several times for you, and nobody
gave me reason said: "What has become of that blessed?".

= Enter the Lepanto coffee, sad, poor and dismantled establishment that has disappeared and
the Plaza de Santo Domingo, without shadow or trace of his past glories.

Instálanse on a table and ask for coffee and drinks .=

THE TABERNACLE
IDO .--=( With solemnity, putting on the table his two elbows as objects
have hampered elsewhere.) = So we are both eager to tell our troubles
and to unleash the story of our adventures and happiness, I do not
know if I take the front and let you start.

ARISTO .--=( Taking off the coat and put it very neatly folded on
a stool next to hers.) = As you wish.

- I see you have good coverage
... And tie pin like a gentleman ... And very decent clothes.

Chico ... you have inherited. Who litters? Did you pig out some guy?

- I have now is to put it bluntly, the best master of the world.

Under the sun there another, nor can it be again.

- Well, bravo!

A round of applause for that mirror of the masters.

But is such a mess like that D. Alejandro Miquis?

- Quite the contrary.

- Student?

--= (With pride.) = Capitalist!

- Chico ... let me open-mouthed. Is it too rich?

- What is ... = (Voice and gesture expressing the vastness.) = Is not easy to tell.

- Other than this! Did I not say that God had to agree with you one day? .. And tell me now frankly:
how do I find?

--= (Not hide his laugh.) = Well I find you ...

--= (With joy and dropping the lower lip of transparent slime threads.) = Say, man, dilo.

- Well I find you ... fat.

--= (With inexpressible joy.) = Yes, yes, others have told me too. Tia says that increase two
pounds per month ... Is that the successful move of my job, my career, my lifestyle, be expressed
in this poor flesh. I am no longer boys blazed, and I am not concerned in trocar beasts in men,
which is the same as making ungrateful. Do not you think I announced that working to change
that diminished by a more honorable and lucrative? ... Tomome of a scribe author of serial novels.
He dictated, I wrote ... My hand by lightning ... Male thrilled ... Each deal an ounce. My
author falls ill and he says: "Ido, finish that chapter." I take my pen, and ras!, I just grating
and another and another. Boy, I scared myself. My head says: "Ido partner" ... We took three
novels at once. He dictated the beginning, then I picked up the thread, and there you are chapters
and chapters. Everything is a matter of Philip II, you know, Masked men, bailiffs, Flemish knights,
and some ladies, boy, more brittle than glass and tinder more fuel ..., the Escorial, the Alcazar
of Madrid, Jews, Moors, Renegades, the so-Perez Antonito, that looks
just tangles, and the princess very hussy of Eboli, who with one eye
sees more than four, Cardinal Granvelle, the Inquisition, Prince D.
Carlos, great skirt, much monkish habit, much to throw bags of money
for any service, subways, nuns raised helmets, mess and backbiting,
natural kids every moment, and my D. Felipe all full of ointments
... In short, boy, go beyond statements and more specifications ...
Earnings items, half him, half me ... New layer, well-fed children,
Tia healed = (Stopping ...)= suffocated sick and delighted me, working
more than bishop and charging much pecuniary.

- Nice job!

--= (Taking
breath.) = Do not think, you need to head, because it's a hell of
liornia that we set.

The editor says: "Ido, volcanic imagination: three heads in one." And it's true. Lying down,
son, I feel in my brain sounds like a pot on the fire ... And the
street when I am distracted, I'm thinking of my scenes and my characters.

All churches Escoriales seem to me, and serene brackets, collars and coats. When I get angry,
loose from the mouth without knowing Marry I say, and instead of a Carape is that's beyond me
With a hundred thousand horsemen! Maybe, my name is Tia the Doña Sol or Doña Mencia. I sleep late,
wake up laughing and say, "Ya, ya know where to go that sank into the trap. " = (With exaltation
Felipe put in care.) = For you you know, my friend, that is a very long mine, made by the Moors,
which allows communication Platero's house, home of Antonio Perez, the convent of Carmelite
nuns roads of the Holy Passion of Pinto.

- Wow that is really long ... = (Hiding laughter.) = Do things! In what has been tangling got
you! But what matters is making money.

- Money! All I want. Now I get to eight dollars per deal. Wakes me in two days. Soon I will
work on my own, then we ship the new task before us charge now.

The editor is a man who knows the cloth, and says, 'I want a lot of work feeling that people
do mourn and is well loaded with morality. " I heard this and feel that my brain is burning
around you. My partner sees me ... I answer by reading the first chapter I wrote the night before
at home ... Male excited! Frankly, the thing is good. Imagine that searching through ruins I
find a chest. Abrol with care, and believe what I find? A manuscript. Leo and what is it, a
very tender story, a memoir, a diary. Because either you have spark or not have ... Two positions
on the loom, and has fourteen deals, and the thing will not end until the editor tells us: "Single,
cut!". = (Hastening the brandy.) = Frankly, the liquor gives life.

--= (Looking at the clock coffee.) = A little late, and though my love is great, I do not entertain
me when I fight for a message.

--= (Excitedly and without regard to what he is talking Felipe.) = Like I said, I have put in
such two girls play pretty poor, it is understood, very poor, and living always more trouble
the last day of the month ... But they are more honest than the Passover Lamb. There is the
morality, there it is, because these cocks orphan girls who applied for both sweet, brave resistance
and are so surly with all they talk about sin, serve as an example to the girls of the day.
My heroines are bare fingers as sewing, and the more they squeeze the hungry, most are relegated to
them in virtue. The little room in which they live is a silver cup. There fresh flowers and cloth,
because one minutisa water the pots and the other is dedicated to
artificial carnations.

In the morning, when they open the window overlooking the roof ... I would like read it to you ...
He says: "It was a beautiful morning in the month of May. It seemed that Nature ...». = (With
madness.) = In this knock on the door.

It is a footman with a letter full of bank notes. The two pretty girls get angry, I write the
statement scented marquis ... and me put it where there is no catch. Overall, they want more money
palm. Oh, I forgot to tell you that there is more bad Duchess bad Landre, which wants lost girls
by envy that has beautiful than they are ... There is also a banker
that does not fix anything.

He believes that everything is arranged with handfuls of cash. Patarata!

I inspired by reality. Where is the honesty? In the poor, the worker,
in the beggar.

Where is the mischief? In the rich, the noble, in the minister, in
general, in the courtly ... Those working, they spend.

Those charged, these suck.

We cry and they suck.

It is necessary that the world ... But what you do, Philip, you sleep?

--= (Savvy and brushing.) = Excuse me, Mr. D. José wanted.

It is not disrespectful; is that what little I drank that damn spirit seems that the head has
filled me stones.

--= (With growing unease fever, which breaks the dam finally made his loquacity.) = If this gives
life ... if this warmth running through my body, I have I muse for the night, and now I'm
going home and office sixty flip pages ... = (Jumping from his seat.)
= You are a true John Wool.

Drink more.

--= (Rubbing his eyes.) = Not in the least.

I fall into the street. Come, D. Joseph.

- Wait, man. Do not be so live genius. What's your hurry?

--= (Putting his hand in his breast pocket.) = I will carry this letter.

- Who?

- Two ladies who live alone.

--= (Pasmado.) = Felipe!

... Two beautiful girls, single, honest!

No doubt a letter full of money.

Your love is a banker, a crook who wants to shame them.

- Little
by little ... You have drunk too much.

- You see, you see?

= (Looking outside the city's eyes.) = Do you see how much make up the fantasy invented much
reality? ... Orphaned girls, tasty, temptation, letter million, virtue
triumphant.

= (Gesturing emphatically with the right arm.) = Notice I say.

What bets that give you the door in their noses? What bets that you to go rolling down the
stairs? Chapter: "How the emissary of the Marquis as it takes the ladder. "

- If my master is not Marquis ... My love is Agustin Caballero, whom
you know.

--= (With penetration.) = Whatever you want, wear the letter
contains an instrument of immorality corruption.

The letter contains notes.

- Yes, but according to drama tomorrow for Sunday afternoon.

Is that the cousins my master, Mr. de Bringas, can not go, because
they have a bad boy.

- Bringas Bringas!

... = (Recordando.) = Amigo Aristotle, let me see the envelope of
the letter ...

- See it.

--= (Reading the address, launches formidable
monosyllable of wonder and hold hands to head.) = "Amparo and Refugio
Girls."

If they are my neighbors, if the two orphan girls Sanchez Emperor ...

- Do you know?

- If you live in the same house, Beat, 4, I third them room!

If that couple I inspiration for what I write ... See, see?

The reality haunts us. I write Wonderland reality the plagiarizes me.

- They are beautiful and nice girls.

- I'll tell you ... = (Meditabundo.) = Nothing they say to the neighborhood, but ...

- But what ...

--= (With profound mystery.) = The reality, though ever imitating
what we know rather than it also invents things that we dare not to
dream that we have three heads in one.

- So you put those things
in his novels.

- No, because they are not poetry.

= (A frown.) = You do not understand art. Things happen great that they can not look out the windows
of a book, because people would be shocked ... Horrible prose Jr. nefarious prose that will
always be banned from this honorable republic the letters! Come on, that if I told you ...

- Tell me you these prose.

- If you knew a little secret to keep! ...

- Yes I know.

- Really?

- Pour it, man.

- Well ... = (After looking everywhere, on their lips to the ears of Philip, and speaks quietly
for a while.) =

--= (Hearing saddened.) = Ya ... What stuff!

- This is not to say.

- No, do not say.

- Not to be written. What vile prose!

--= (Reflexionando.) = Unless you, with his three heads in one, not become poetry.

--= (With vigorous denial.) = You do not understand art. = (Trying to pierce the forehead the
tip of the index finger.) = The poetry I get out of this mine.

- Come, D. Joseph.

- Come on, and since you and I took the course of my home ... talk ... way. After performance
... commission, you will enter my room. Tia will be delighted to see you. Grip Hand ... gatherings,
memories, explanations ... = (With increasingly incoherent speech and awkward.) = I ... talk
emperor ... you ... I love that famous ... illustrious ... opulentísimo ...

II

D. Rosalia and Francisco Caballero, second officer of the Royal Commissariat for the Holy Places
in 1867 was an excellent subject who confessed fifty years. Still has days that the Lord preserve
you. But this man is no longer lithe and strong, that sociable temperament, that fun to say,
that will obsequious, that courtesy helpful. Those who try then, just when you recognize on the
street today appears to us, giving his arm a servant, shuffling, made a curve, with half a face
in a scarf, almost view, trembling, drooling and so clumsy word and walking. Poor lord! Sixteen
years has boasted of having the best health of his time, played their destination on time unlikely
in our offices, bringing its domestic affairs with impeccable arrangements, met as the first
in the family and society. No one knew what debt was two religions,
God's and savings, and that every man be blessed in such perfection,
spent most of his spare time to various household chores undoubted
advantage, thus demonstrating the clarity of their intelligence and
dexterity of his hands.

From his green years, he worked, employees
were their parents and grandparents, and still think their grandparents
and the parents of these served in the administration of both worlds.
Not connected this man with the well-known business family in Madrid
who had the same name and also gave some very famous arcades. The
Bringas of the D. Francisco, Friend our beloved, came from La Mancha,
and the second name came from those Knights Cadiz, affluent family
in the last century, which was ruined after the war. There D. made
good Francisco his career with slow but sure step, depending on are
seldom reached then the inconsistency and turmoil of politics. Hanging
from the best skirts that were in his time, Bringas never saw the
pale face of unemployment, and was certainly the happiest employees
in Spanish offices. 

Was he insured on the payroll as the oyster
lies in very deep bench where they can not reach the fishermen lucky
pilgrim Madrid's bureaucracy, which always disturbed by politics,
greed, envy, idleness and vice, is a field of infinite pains.

Bringas
was not political, nor had he ever been, even had his own ideas, like
all Spanish, indeed very moderate. He felt no ambition, and have no
vices, not even smoke. Was worker so thrilled played effortlessly
work and his boss, was very lazy. At home he lost no time, and his
mechanical skills were such that it will not be easy to count them
all. Nature put it useful and varied talents to compose all sorts
of broken objects. Any rickety chair fell into his hands was like
new, and his fingers were miraculous talisman to stick a piece of
fine porcelain had been shattered. He dared even with the clocks that
do not want to walk, and the toys in the hands of the boys lost the
virtue of its mechanism. Restored books whose binding is impaired,
and varnishing furniture to whom time and use have spent luster. The
same kid rejuvenated a fan or a shell comb, which the most ignoble
part of the kitchen. Cork births was Christmas, and sticks teeth for
the whole year. In his house would never be called a carpenter. Bringas
knew better no one nailed, join, upholstery, break open, and he obeyed
the iron and wood veneer ebony and the sole piece of the tail and
glue, the screw and the tip of Paris, paper sand and grit. He had
all kinds of tools and supplies and ammunition thousand, and if offered
to handle a fat needle for joining pieces of carpet, nor was ago.
Sovereign sheathing old furniture fabrics and other furniture and
boning invalid. At the same time, Bringas was a man who did not disdain,
in days of trouble and guests of be in shirt sleeves and clean silverware.
Go to the coffee in the kitchen style gastronome, and if we hurried,
agreed to put a Valencian rice to overcome the best works of his worthy
wife and the cook of the house