 The figure for a moment that I can forgive is a new insult is an idea that
a soul can only be as miserable as theirs.

- Forgiveness never degrades.

It is the virtue that most ennobles man - said the cleric, surprised.

D. Álvaro thrust a long look angry.

After disdainfully shrugged and said:

- Okay, let's stop that. What matters is that, since it has brought, will take you immediately
this woman.

- I would beg her to, but not forgive, we allow at least talk to you ... You may have to make some disclosures.

-
I am curious. You can keep his revelations or entrust to whom he pleases ... For me (hear you
well I'll tell you) - while she took with clenched hand wrist - for my part, now or ever will
cross the floor with her ... You can tell them.

Fr Gil dropped his head and remained silent while the primogeniture began pacing restlessly the
room with his hands in his pockets. From time to time he drew on his face sarcastic smile and let
out through the nose a slight huff accusing tension your spirit, reveals the tension whistle
steam boiler.

- Since it can not be - said after a while the priest softly, - you
understand, D. Álvaro, that lady can not go to sleep outside the house
without giving fuel to poor languages, without renewing talks should
not be renewed.

Selfishness, if not for charity you must consent to his wife now sleep in this house, because I do
not think that suits you shock the population.

D. Álvaro continued its hectic rides without a word, as if he had not heard the proposition the priest. After
a while he stood in front of him and staring at him, said:

- Okay. Tell him if you like, there is no objection to sleep in this house ... but it needed little
dignity to accept - he said, lowering his voice and emphasizing the
syllables .-- And if you want money for the trip back, Osuna will
provide it.

- I thank you for this courtesy, but I'm very sad - he
replied smiling P. Gil .-- Any sacrifice would erase the memory of
the offense received and again welded chain their marriage.

How would this time be a man eloquent! ...

- Eloquence, Mr. toilets, has served in this world to committing large
vile; but I think it would be any higher than you propose.

- For
you are a vile what to me would be a noble and generous act, himself
an imitator of Christ.

We understand in regard to what is dignity or indignity ...

- Sorry
for you, father - said the firstborn, extending his hand.

- And I
for you, D. Álvaro.

Good night.

Left alone he continued to walk even a few moments, then stood before the cord the bell and
pulled hard.

Ramiro submitted soon.

- That woman is there ... You want me to
take? - Asked the old man, without waiting for orders of his master.

-
No. Lead it to the room, turn on all lights and tell Dolores you upload.