 The only thing I set out
to write such stories is distracted or have fun in almost forced my retirement old age and
my infirmities condemn me.

I will not deny me that I had fun writing stories, but I keep it to infer and hence can be sure
that he is also fun to read. The stories, however, aspire not only to entertain. If you are
not amused, criticism can not and should go beyond to the point of calling them annoying, and
instead, if anything fun or entertaining, its purpose and aims are met. They are neither do I want
to be but a mere hobby work, when read with, without the slightest offense against God or neighbor,
to achieve the unemployed entertainment for several hours. Those who want to learn something,
have plenty of books to go. To find religion read the names of Christ, to know moral, read the Guide
sinners and to know philosophy, which is publishing the Father Urraburu
in many and very thick volumes.

This is not intended nor librejo deeply touch the hearts of readers. The muse has inspired me (assuming
also that there has been muse) has not been sad or tragic, but joyful and happy, as suited to console
of my real punishment and not to aggravate weight with other penalties imaginary. Moreover,
I believe and have always believed that all production artistic or literary means good humor
and not despondency and distress. Even when a poet or a novelist by author events takes more
pitiful, it is important that the shame and Despite have dissipated almost completely, so that
the matter was in the subject and that plagued the subject, get out
of it, and he calmly contemplate and be the object or the first material
with which he composes or constructs his work, carving and polishing.

Everyone has their way of doing things. I do not have to make rules and I argue about this.
I will just say I do not understand that overcome with deep grief begins to sing or write about
the pain overwhelms him. The death of a loved one, the misfortunes of country, the tremendous
struggle and the terrible hardships that often afflict the human race All this, when it comes
to become subject to it when our literary creations and unless it hurts, because if we hurt,
we would not write, but would try to remedy the practical means bad,
or you cry, report and ineffably and without literature, if not acertásemos
to address it