 It ordered the procession
  carrying the statue of the saint the clergy, mixed with PP. of
  Company, which alternated with the PP. Dominicans until arrived
  at the parish church, which is the main city continuously booming
  guns, rockets and harmony music. After it arrived at the church,
  all decorated the lights neatly and very beautiful lamps, shone
  bright inside, made with bell signal for vespers, and Santo placed
  in the presbytery on a table, for it was adorned, was chanted
  by the eve point in who served our finest musicians, attending
  to them all the clergy and the PP. Jesuits and Dominicans, concluding
  ceremonies, in the same order, pomp and circumstance was taken
  the simulacrum of the Holy to our church, where he sang
  Te Deum solemnly echoing cannon fire, and music, and also the bell
  and said the usual prayers, was eventually agreed that the feast
  day. Then at Ave-Marias and end of the party, burned a
  few hundred lamp, lighted the tower parish, and also the we had
  many flags, which beat the beauty wind and mixed with the lamps.
  While the night more dark air rockets lit up the fliers and heard
  din of arms.
  
  69. The next day, from dawn, the priests who do not were at home,
  digeron Mass until 9, and later, being always the church full
  of people of all kinds of condition and state.

  After the solemn mass sung Dr. Lewis, pastor of the city, which
  long before had asked for a singular benefit received, leading
  the Vicar heavily. A sugeto of our company predicts, very well.
  Was from yesterday, and all the time of the Mass, the saint's image
  on altar in a rich gold and silver throne, glittering all
  altar with this metal, and the effigy of the saint, and especially
  the table where I was, all covered with precious stones, pearls
  and diamonds. And though all the matrons of Santa Fe together their
  wealth for this ornament, however, exceeding a certain noble woman,
  upstart kingdom of Chile, who had come to this city ??which, as
  we had no place at the altar, placed on the steps of the chancel
  a table with a child Jesus who looked at things so precious,
  gold, diamonds, and also for the unique art with which he had prepared,
  which all snatched, leaving far behind the other Ladies patrician.
  After the solemnity of the Mass, which lasted until noon, was
  removed from the altar the effigy of the saint, and sung again Te
  Deum Parent Santo Domingo, was placed (With incredible joy
  and happiness of all the people and city, and mainly of our Fathers,
  that witnessed the repeated and solemn ringing of bells)
  in his own altar, he had prepared the afflicted Indians, who, outside
  her own beauty, was greatly adorned with jewels neighbors. Was finally
  concluded the ceremony, but not devotion, because, besides our
  Jesuit happen every day with greater fervor the powerful patronage
  of Holy against whisperers, also was not small the assistance
  of all City in distress and slander that is everywhere aroused
  against the Indians, who have been committed by God our faith and
  doctrine, and therefore also against us as defenders of this just
  cause.
  
  70. When these things happened in May in the city of Santa Faith
  in honor of the caster of Bohemia, the town of San Miguel, distinguish
  between all, was preparing to meet another similar altar (except
  the rich) its promises made to Our Lady of Loreto, whose description
  is omitted, having mentioned above: but after their order shall
  cover when we talked about what happened in July, having quietly
spent almost the rest of May and June also.

  
  
  71. We said almost quietly, because there was no hostility some,
  but not this machine left by the enemy, the rest is as always
  a trick, and although not made hostilities, are available and
  projected. For this cause, to deprive the Confederacy of the
  assistance that debian Guaranis give the infidel troops Guano
  Gentiles (the that should be taken as enemies, even though they are
friends, because anyone, not even God, keep faith) called to certain
caciques of them, and took them to a castle that was more immediately,
to persuade them what they want - which is easy getting a poor, and
eager to donecillos, gifts and ò dresses with pigtails.

  Were provided for that hard for handouts, and also (which
  among Christians is abominable forbidden by excommunication) almost
  violent with weapons, and said he, too, had corrupted or bribed.
  So then counted to our Miguelistas other chiefs of Minuanes,
  who had participated in the gift or gifts. That some of his men
  had been paid for the war and Moreira mainly one called for in the
  next expedition to guard the baggage of the Portuguese with people.
  They had a lot of clothes, weapons, and were armed, and
  be trained with cutlass for this purpose. Out of this that Portuguese,
  trusting in this hope, erected a Fuertecillo which was to serve
  as appropriate to the real prison that had to train in the mountains
  of San Miguel, close to the Santa Maria stays, which are called
  Yacegua: but also other chiefs of the nation is excused, and that
  much advance notice to his friends what had been treaty. For browsers
  that were identified after Catholics and Christians from the
  town of San Miguel, which with The garrison was in the last terms
  of jurisdiction, were to run the earth. Recorriéronla, and told
  that did not seem any enemy, and upbraiding the same Moreira,
  afeándole the fact, confessed that he had been truly call of
  the Portuguese, with gifts and asked for things sobredichas,
  but no luck that had consented: so which he had retired, having
  the Lusitano with fury, done it many threats. This he said,
  but if it were true which said it expected to test the effect, if
  offered the Used, but then so was thought.
  
  72. Also spread the Portuguese with these few things lies against
  the Indians, and that many are primarily had happened to them,
  and many teams often were fleeing the tyranny of the PP., and
  already had and numbered a few hundred of those. Pretending
  these things In order to provoke the Spanish to return to undertake
  war, but was discovered after criminals or perpetrators
  of lie, when by the hand of the Provincial of the Province Brazil
  sent the list of Indians who lived among them: some of whom were
  married, and others called for: but had no more than 50, many
  of whom had surnames town of San Borja, but they disagreed over
  the names. Is also others, which were inserted in the list by name,
  already had returned again to the peoples. The Portuguese
  went endeavoring to persuade the Spanish these things, but the
  Indians they know others, but namely, that the Father Rabago,
  (in whom they placed the Indians in any hope of human sponsorship)
had been deprived of King's confession, which had fallen from grace,
and to over this, he was arrested, but later warned of Europe, which
was deception and lies of the Portuguese.

  
  
  73. And he ended in July, when the port of Montevideo appeared
  a commercial vessel on the 27th of July, which was bringing 150
  convicts soldiers to the castle, and 70 Missionaries Company, 40
  for the province of Chile, and 31 for ours; others remained
  in Spain, which were almost as many, with the attorney who
  resides in the Court, and takes care of businesses and Misiones
  Province. In truth it does not cause All this news is little consolation,
  especially as they news filled the prosperous province, and also
  letters announcing all welcome. It seemed that was the business
  concluded, the Court had rejected the iniquitous treaty to rejoice
  or delight in our loyalty and obedience, which had accepted the
  appeal by peoples, who commanded things were suspended. So
  he told principles: but as the sad news usually follows prosperous,
  the royal commissioners reported this business quite the opposite:
  that the war was adopted as a reference to rebels, as they said,
  which is also gave thanks to Ministers for the zeal and expense
  made for sugetar to the contumacious, that things had been said
  in favor, had out of puddles, and not the source, who had to continue
  the war and had to make more raw.

  To this end were issued new decrees and intimacy to our Prelate
  immediately, crushing havoc, and threatening to take everything
  blood and fire, but surrendered the people.
  
  74. These formal notices sent to the Governor of Concepcion, Nenguirù,
  the Curia, or Council meeting domestic, because otherwise So that
  might be suspicious issue: For this, interpose the authority
  having between them, passing the River, the intimate and enacted
  in the provinces and towns forced to move. But this, not trusting
  the people angry, and anticipating and knowing that there
  was to do another thing increase mutinous troops, he returned again
  to refer to the Curia all papers, begging the prelates
  not giving rise to the province, little appeased, even fusses
  still more, or require her head, or Governor, to exposed to real
  risk of death. At rest, neglected these threats, what had been
  expected happen.
  
  75. Meanwhile throughout August, September and October, soldiers
  recruited in the cities of Spanish and Portuguese: but in
  ours, but there was no peace and quiet, and provided that, while
  things settled down, is dispatched to scouts everywhere as in the
  past, and were with more surveillance.
  
  76. In late October, or rather at the beginning of November,
  the Governor of Buenos Aires, from the wide riverbed the river, reached
the city of Montevideo, where he was to together all the Spanish army.

  Also stated that walked towards Montevideo 200 soldiers who had
  been dispatched from the city of Corrientes, and as many of the
  Santa Fe, but if this is true or not, time will tell, that Correntinos
  the 200 had not been but 80, and that others had deserted. In
  addition, between the deserters had returned to his home
  some Abipones that the commander had brought as scouts, being very
  local scouts. Also in Santa Faith, having invited the lieutenant
  for the league to the Mocobís, refused the barbarian chieftain,
  and did not respond as such, because said - that he had not
  embraced the law of Christ to war against innocent Christians,
  and rather would favor the oppressed, unless he is prevented from
  that great river.
  
  77.

  Than to each other, that is, province of Santa Fe and Corrientes,
  is I had shot the horses, and they had lost vast fields: that everywhere,
  especially in Buenos Aires, every day they died and perished by
  hundreds, and this reason some doubted the effective progress
  of the army. No However, although it is true that the Court did
  not doubt the iniquity, and also worked in the dissolution or annulment
of covenants, however, as not to send any true and Decree deliberated
whether it would suspend or continue war, the Ministers of both courts
that are here, move more active things in the war as the Spanish with
difficulty, and almost violent, were brought to this expedition and,
as they said, were bound and constrained to it for some political
reasons alone, he proceeded slowly, or tried to go slowly.

  Therefore, being well advanced November, were still in the
  city of Montevideo, and did not know whether with sincerity or with
  bending were known here, where I was, certain notices secrets,
  they did not want anything the Spanish forces but the Indians
  were opposed, burn the fields where I had to go to them
  to give occasion to excuse the default by pastures, and back, or
  at least delayed, as he reached the Cut something true. Although
  it is doubtful, not without reason, the possibility of the
  file, because grasses mature these lands, and the straw that is
  suitable for the fire, they are not for animals, but once burned,
  as soon after and turn green again, eagerly eaten by horses and
  like greatly, so it was suspected, and not in vain, for some,
  it was ploy, and that under the pretext of bringing them fear,
  he asked for, and even help the enemy especially being so burned
  fields and plains best show the way to the travelers, when at otherwise
  would be impracticable pregnant and full of weeds.

  
  78. But as there was no doubt about preparations for the expedition,
  and took the ships from Europe, It was agreed that the province
  still unprepared to prevent it was attacked by the enemy, prepare
  things here, for defense, and lookouts with more diligence roads:
  case also seemed to be fire or burn fields.
  
  79. Consisted enough, not at first lies 1.500 were Spanish,
  and the relief of the other cities, about 2,000: that the Portuguese
  were 3.000 and therefore the total was 5.000, but both armies all
  together reach 3.000, wrote the chief of these people (the Governor
  of Montevideo, which, as was said, came in place of Buenos
  Aires, and had to take care of this business) to a Jesuit friend,
  sometimes it was stone scandal, and that is no longer in that
  city: in fact the witness is competent, it by everybody. Also
  be had by Incidentally, the Spanish army was to make the journey
  from San Felipe Castle, via straight to the headwaters of
  the Rio Black, and towards the payment of Santa Tecla, term and
  watch the Michael, and that there had to penetrate large rodeos,
  deserted by province until a fortress Portuguese Yacuy located
  on the river, which shortly before had no name, and now for
  the invasion that they were frustrated the Indians call it (but
  evil) Fort Victoria, and finally joined forces, had to walk to town
  San Angel. This was determined by the Council of both nations,
  and Although these findings seemed to the cowboys or experts
  the roads very violent, and almost impassable in execution,
  yet it was to provide all appropriate things, and fools to guard
  against efforts near misses or the Portuguese. Debalde not
  joined the captains, running and January, and although not felt
  any movement of enemy determined well in advance however,
  that all people neighboring villages gather together and come
  to the rescue. And then letters and dispatched a courier
  to the de la Concepcion and Santo Tomé, where these were to later
send to the other peoples to come closer, and verifications explorers
everywhere, mainly because I do not know the yerbales they made enemies:
I suspect that the fires that had been lest any irruption machines,
or who composed the roads.

  Then the point was for ten Johannine, and almost as
  many of San Angel, that were towards the mountains where they would
  make high, and the town of San Miguel, a captain field was on
  duty in Santa Tecla, to be warned their own state in which things
  were: it was said which menaced the enemy that part, and already
  there were two months walking, namely, from December 5.

80.
  When this time all this equipment seemed to be left in views or measures,
and partly confirming the coming of the enemy with emails everyday
of, and cures were asleep or in inaction, some people began to move
business, stating that one should not go neglected, and debian is
gather troops and dispatch them to the list terms of jurisdiction,
not to enter the enemy to remote fields of the farms or calves, and
destroying them killing, without being punished, and not block anyone.

  With got this difficulty, after many reasons exposed: to wit, the
  army would be late for leave the meeting from almost 100
  miles away, if then began to gather troops, when the enemy undertaken,
  that the enemy could tread it all, and actual Portuguese would
  walk straight path through the rooms that would destroy,
  they would close the communication to the Indians, and would take
  away the food, the lack of which is already beginning to feel, and
  finally it's always better to attack the enemy first that being
  attacked him. For these reasons he finally succeeded in dispatched
  nine post or posts, which everywhere alert and inclined to
  join the Confederates. Also the captain of the Concepcion was
  already a party of 150 men in their stays confined to those of
  San Miguel, and to complete this item is retted another 60 of the
  people. Put in motion to the auxiliary squadrons, which were
  to come from Santana villages of San Carlos and Los Angeles,
  60, des Martyrs, 60, of San Javier, and Santa Maria, 30. Suddenly
  arranged on that side of things, put the captain who had
  it removed shortly before, having returned to home its people,
  who were scattered throughout various peoples, it was believed
  that the Council had acted this home moving, then surti good effect.

81.
  On the other peoples of Uruguay, such as warnings that the post
  shortly before and already had sent back, who had not rumor,
  nor felt the enemy were hurrying to wait the armies of other
  nations. But, to January 20 was unexpectedly mail, which warned
  that the day 16 of month in the headwaters of Black River, that
  part which is a narrow entrance, between the Black and Yacuy rivers,
  in land San Miguel, which entrance or door of the earth called
  Ibiroqué Indians, had appeared to the Spanish army when least
  expected, that having seen five explorers, had confessed that they
  came to Spanish 2.000 wait till the Portuguese.
 