 

Valentina, embroidery, too, and blonde, was not so beautiful. Its smaller eyes, your less sensitive
skin, nose a little rolled up, the lower height. Instead his hair gold was curly and he fell gracefully
over his forehead, his hands and feet more sensitive and shorter than those of Nevis, and, above all,
had often, almost constantly, a frown, a furrowed brow that he was not angry and gave his face
a shade picaresque extremely friendly. Encarnacion was a seamstress, waitress robust, red, pudgy,
vulgar appearance. Artisans of Sarrió going through the best girl of the four-to the intelligent
and refined connoisseur worth much. Teresa, a seamstress too, was on his face true blackberry,
and darker which, the jet black hair, slanted eyes and as black as his hair, nose and mouth right.
Ugly passing through the village because of color: in fact it was a beautiful oriental. Of the two
daughters of the house, a, Generosa had nothing to draw attention, the other, Elvira, was a
palidita, eyes large, closed, very funny.

The Sarrió artisans have never gone for the ridiculous imitation of
the ladies, so widespread Today, unfortunately, among other peoples
of Spain.

They believed and believe these distinguished Sarrio, and I entirely endorse his view that the costume
and fashions adopted by the ladies sees our little not let your natural graces before the undermining.
And this is logical. In First are not accustomed to wear such as subject or tight costumes
demand from their subordinates. Then, in the villages no one cut in style. Finally, gender
has to be of lower quality, poorer and uglier. However, upon the globe who globe, and even on
the other balloons sailing through space, competing with them in putting The rich floral shawl from
China, tied at the waist from behind? Who to drop more grace, even so, the curls of hair in the
front carelessly studied? Who moves more gracefully into the giraldilla or give more elegance to
a rempujón gentleman who gets out, saying while smiling and angry ?--«¿ between Christian, you
is silly, or made? Look to be a prick! "Who is able to sing with more feeling and less heard
around that of a pilgrimage

Aben-Hamet from Granada to the pierced heart feel?

    No doubt it. The Sarrió artisans
    whose aesthetic principles are rooted admiration of friends and strangers,
especially now that the characters disappear, do good to maintain
their independence and to raise his head in front of the swanky ladies
of the villa.

Because (let's put under so that they do not find out) the truth is that they are much more beautiful.
This, without offending anyone in particular, save me God. No traveler peninsular Sarrió remind
that does not assert the same with more or less energy depending on the nature of temperament.
No inglesote those which call for a few days to the end of Pawn to talk back in Cardiff or Bristol
to friends of this Spanish town, not starting up many eyebrows, open mouth in a circle extending
out perfect lips and leaning back in his chair not exclaim: - Oh, oh, oh! Yeung Sarrió the girls
very, very, very beautiful!

And when the English say, do not tell the Spanish, and in particular those We have lived so long
under their beneficent influence!

The four officers and Nevis as well, though it stung higher, belonged then to the famous breed
of women whose preservation and prosperity I pray to heaven all days
and advise all that makes a good Catholic.

In the working days wore calico Wool mantoncito tied back and silk scarf around his neck, revealing,
of course, head. Nieves, by exception, brought to China Daily black shawl with fringe.

Just get to work after lunch. The sun penetrates the two balconies in the room to through the curtains.
For you do not mind, seamstresses fall into one of the corners.

Teresa, the most Philharmonic them softly sings a song romantic and shy sad and prolonged cadences,
on purpose to be accompanied in third. And indeed, Snow was quick to give the duo, as there
was said. Other's still singing, some in first and others second voice. All of which is a harmony
Asaz melancholy flavor romantic stark. The romance may escape the customs and being thrown in
the novel and theater, most always find a warm nest and delicious where shelter in the heart
of Sarrió young artisans. Harmony that lasts until the charge of breaking Pablito releasing it
suddenly in the midst of his booming voice of ram. Seamstresses suspend singing and head up frightened.
Then he burst out laughing.

The beautiful Pablito, leaning back in his chair in another corner, laughs too loud with strong
of His grace.

Since he had begun to sew her sister's team, expressed a taste Pablito
by the sedentary life that until then had never seen in him.

Who had seen in the days of life one minute stop at home after eating? Who could imagine who
spent the morning sitting in that chair giving the seamstresses parola? Sure enough, however. It
had been nearly a month since I came on horseback or by car, and not passed on block over an
hour every day.

Pisces was shocked.

Came daily to look, but in vain.

- Look, Pisces, today I have to clean the silver stirrups, I can not leave .-- Look, Pisces I
have to go to collect a letter on behalf of father .-- Look, Pisces,
Linda is with torozón and it can not be mounted.

- It is good - growled
Pisces.

- Do you come from the block?

- Yes.

- Well ... anyway
today because I can not leave ... I have a rash here ... it saves
the Part ...

Some days Pisces entered the sewing room, and without
saying anything sitting waiting a while not very long is almost never
because harbored strong suspicions that the seamstresses were laughing
him, and this was startled and embers.

When he felt the time is right, or because they have symptoms of
fatigue in Paul or any other circumstance which is within our reach,
rising from the seat and made a hand signal to his friend whistled
at the same time.

This is because they understood much better than words whistles.

Both disliked by the articulate sound, especially Pisces, and spared
his job.

More Pablito gave the same whistles and flutes.

- Male, Pisces ... I have a sloth! ... You do me the favor of going to the block and tell Pepe
to give another Rosemary oil ointment?

- I will give - answered with gloomy countenance Pisces.

- Well, Pisces, thank you very much ... Goodbye ... Be sure to come tomorrow, eh? ... May leave
horse.

He said this with great gentleness and kindness, to make amends. Pisces muttered a 'good evening
"without turning to the bystanders, and crooked left eye, ugly and
devilish than ever.

The next day the same.

Despite the reverence that inspired him Pablito Pisces came to assume that he liked one of the
seamstresses.

What? His insight did not resolve.

Began again his song girls, but on reaching that of

Only you, divine woman will pray a prayer in my lonely grave, and
so on.

    
    
    Pablito let out another loud and deafening screech.

Return to laughter. Venturita became serious.

- Look, Paul, if you continue to do silly, you better go with Pisces.

Pablito turn gets dull.

- I'll go when I want. Always be you that spoil everything!

He meant the young Belinchón that only his sister insisted on ignoring
Ventura the ingenuity with which heaven had given him.

And it was true. All the others laughed jubilant, as if, instead of a screech just heard a
passage from Rabelais.

Dona Paula, who had admiration for his eldest son idolatrous, and yet kept a grudge against
her daughter by her answers, though it is largely paid for her beauty, wine that aid.

- You're right Paul. Whenever you have to spoil every party! ... Jesus
what creature!

... The he is the man to take you, fat is a sin to purge.

At that time appeared in the doorway of the room Gonzalo, who is bent
like a bow to shake hands with his future mother, and Cecilia Ventura.

This was serious. Without turning head toward them, warned that all the seamstresses looked out of
the corner of the eye.

He saw thought the hint of a smile forming on their faces.

The same thing happened every day.

Before arriving Gonzalo, seamstresses were pleased to direct, whenever
he came to mind, a dig at the bride.

- Cecilia, which of these shirts
you are putting on the wedding day?

It should be noted that some of them have met the tuteaban for girls. Very often in the villages.

- Miss, in these sheets so thin you will slip.

- It is not slipping and alone. Right, Cecilia?

- Anda, mischievous, good-looking that you get!

- Do not be so handsome Venturita.

- Who knows - it replied.

Cecilia heard these sayings with a smile on his lips and flushed. Since they had started wedding
preparations, her cheeks, once so pale, they were almost always flushed. This liveliness and happiness
lent brightness to your eyes, if not pretty, made it interesting and friendly. No girl on the
eve of marriage ceases to be more or less.

Cecilia was reserved and quiet condition, without giving in so taciturn. Ordinarily spoke only when
addressed him, but his answers were smooth, clear, accurate. It was the hallmark of his character's
shyness, which often provide sovereign spell girls. But in place of this quality, our heroine
had a sweet serenity, some nice strength in all his words and gestures
that reveal the perfect clarity of his spirit.

This serenity was happening for some people some observers, if not for pride, it was clear that
Cecilia did not have it, for coldness of heart. Believed, even the close to the house, which was
unable to conceive a passion alive and tender. Accustomed to see impassive fulfilling domestic
duties with clockwork regularity, I was forced a major effort to penetrate, not everyone can perform
to divine the true The oldest moral physiognomy of Belinchón.

Most of these beings live and die unknown, because they have one
of those shining qualities that appeal to and attract approaches.

Innocence itself, oddly enough, belongs to that number, and not what
less attention paid to a woman's character.

Very few are those who appreciate the beauty crystal contained in
these souls.

The look is immersed in them without finding anything to wake up
attention.

But the same goes for certain poisons, as with certain filters that give life. Because our
eyes do not look clumsy and limited elements of health or death there
suspended in them, are we to say that there?

It was difficult out sad or unpleasant emotions that crossed the soul of Cecilia, but not impossible.
We do not know if I put effort to hide or was forced upon them by the same nature. The truth is
that in the house, even his parents almost always the unknown.

It was, eg, leaving one day visits, or to buy a dress, Dona Paula asked her daughter to request:

- How about that, Cecilia?

- Sounds good - answered it.

- You okay,
really? - Said the mother looking into her eyes.

- Yes, Mom, that's
fine.

Dona Paula was always in doubt whether he pleased or really disliked the dress or whatever.

Cried very few times, and even those are hidden to make it so that nobody knew. The biggest disappointment
that he had, only denounced by a slight wrinkle on the forehead; the greatest joy for a little
more intensity in the delicate smile, constantly spread his face. When Gonzalo wrote from abroad,
so read the letter submitted his mother and handed.

- Do you like the boy? - Asked after reading it with more emotion than he had expressed his daughter
to deliver.

- Do you like yourself?

- To me yes.

- Well if you like you and dad, I also like - said the girl.

Who could imagine after these cold words that Cecilia had long had deep love? However, as love is
the human feeling more difficult to conceal, and then the consent
of their parents had no reason to hide, let him see quite clarity.

In the temperaments as our heroine, any sign, however slight, is crucial. The happiness that filled
his heart, sprang, therefore, to his face in view of all who knew her intimately. Few beings have
enjoyed most in the land Cecilia in that season. All that canvas spread across the room, those
patterns paper, drawings, racks, spools of thread, I spoke a mysterious language and tender.
Scissors to cut chis chis, sewing needles to creak, crunch, they
said so funny things in the future!

Sometimes they said: '- Who do you see, Cecilia, go to Mass Sundays arm your husband? He will lead the
prayer book, I will go to the altar of Our Lady of Sorrows and placed
behind men.

Then you wait for the exit will offer the holy water and the arm
will catch you. " Other times he said "- The Early morning you will
rise very slowly so he would not wake up, clean your clothes, put
the buttons on his shirt, and when the time comes you serve yourself
the chocolate. " Other suddenly exclaimed: "- And when you have a
child!" Then the bride was a turning very pleasing in the heart, his
hands trembled and cast a quick glance at the seamstresses fearing
who had noticed her excitement.

When the different parts were finished
and ironed clothes, Cecilia was getting the carefully in a basket.
So I was filled with the rose on her head to one of the rooms above,
where art with care and placed shirts, blouse, caps and hairdressers
on some desks made the attempt: the delicately covered with a cloth,
and then out closing the door and keeping the key in his pocket.

After
he had saluted, Gonzalo went to sit by Pablito, and passing his hand
familiarly over his shoulder, whispered:

- What is your favorite