 

Proem.

My intent is to write the memorable Shipping and Day, which the Catalans and Aragonese made
to the provinces of East, when his fortune and went competing value in increasing power and
esteem, called by Andronico Paleologo Greek Emperor in relief and defense of his government
and home. Favored and esteemed as the weapons of the Turks I had almost depressed, and feared
his perdition and ruin, but after that effort ours was free of them, mistreated and persecuted with
great cruelty and barbaric ferocity; was born the natural obligation to look for their defense
and preservation, and the cause of back invincible forces against the Greeks themselves, and
Prince Andronico, which were formidable, causing fear and awe to the greatest princes of Asia and
Europe, perdition and total destruction to many nations and provinces, and admiration to all
the world. Will this work, though small by the neglect of the old, long in deeds, write short,
full various and strange cases of continuous warfare in remote and isolated several Towns and
warlike people, of bloody battles and unexpected victories of dangerous finished with gains
so happy by so few and divided Catalans and Aragonese, that were initially mockery of those
nations, and after the great instrument of punishment God made them. Defeated the Turks in
the first increase of its greatness Othomana, dispossessed large and wealthy provinces of Asia Minor,
and by main strength and rigor of our swords locked in the most harsh and desert mountains
of Armenia. After the weapons around against the Greeks, on whose behalf they passed, to get
rid of an ignominious death, and avenge wrongs not without great disgrace could hide their esteem
and disgrace of his name. Won by force many towns and cities, powerful armies routed and broken,
defeated and field dead kings and princes, great Provinces destroyed and deserted, dead, captive,
or exiled its inhabitants, more than deserved revenge lawful. Thracia, Macedonia, Thessaly, and Boeotia
tread penetrated and in spite of all the princes and forces of the East, and lately died at his
hands the Duke of Athens with all the nobility of his subjects, and the relief of French and Greeks
held their state, and he formed a new dominion. In all these events not without treachery, cruelty,
theft, violence and sedition, pestilence common, not only an army colecticio and weak for
the short head of the supreme power, but great and powerful monarchies. If, as the Catalans defeated
his enemies, overcome their ambition and greed, not to exceed the limits of right, and kept
together, dilating their weapons until the final end of East, and see Palestine and Jerusalem,
the second time crossed flags. For his courage and military discipline, his constancy in adversity,
suffering in the work, safety hazards, alacrity in executions, and other the military virtues
were in the highest degree, while the anger is not perverted. But same power that God gave
them to punish and oppress many nations wanted it to be the instrument of his own punishment.
With the pride of the good events, faded with prosperity, came to be divided into the competence
of government, divided to kill, with which ignited a civil war, terrible and cruel, which caused
no major damage comparison and deaths, that they had with strangers.

CHAPTER I.

State of the Kingdoms and Kings of Aragon's house by this time.

Before beginning to our story, it is important for whole words, the state news who were the provinces
and Kings of Aragon, his armies and navies, their friends and enemies; principles necessary
to know which is founded the main cause of this expedition. The Rey Don Pedro of Aragon, whom
the greatness of his works gave renown Great, son of Don Jaime el Conquistador Gostanza was
married to the daughter of King Manfred of Sicily, whom Charles of Anjou with the help of the
Roman Pontiff, the blood enemy of Emperor Frederick, removed the Kingdom and life. Charles
stayed with his death Prince and King of the Two Sicilies, and more after the unfortunate Coradin,
last Prince of the house of Swabia, broken and destroyed, prisoner came into his hands, and by
his order and sentence, he was beheaded in public scaffold, for eternal memory of a vicious
revenge, and great example of the human variety. Don Pedro King of Aragon was not then strong
enough to take the death satisfacion Manfredo and Coradin, or later to be King he led the civil
wars, because Valencia went Moors raised, and the Barons and rich men were quarreling d Catalonia
and malcontents, and also because they were declared enemy of Charles, provoked against yes
the arms of France, and the Church, so formidable are the divine, the Kingdoms of Sicily and
Naples out of his house, his arms employed in defense against enemies more neighbors. All these
difficulties stopped the mood offended the King, but not in any way, erasing the memory of the
grievance. In some views he had with the King of France Filipe its brother, Charles Entreviñas
son of King of Naples, King of France wanting to be friends and talk, always excused Don Pedro and
his face showed sorrow and disgust I had in my heart, that they were all satisfied and bland
bad, and certainly then Charles was prevented and arm, if he believed that the forces of King of
Aragon were equal his mind and thought. But the sky gave them enough to take full and fair
satisfacion of the innocent blood of so-hidden Coradin means, not learned until it the published execution.

Sicilianos
Outrageous insolence prompted the French, unbridled in their shame and dishonor took up arms, and
made the famous Sicilian Vespers commonly called, shook the public
cervix insufferable yoke of the French, and Charles, which unfairly
opremia, leaving to the discretion and restraint of ministers unjust
cause the most often occurs removals in the states and their princes
miserable cases.

Charles then went to powerful army to punish the bold and rebellious subjects. They closed the door
watching to all piety and mercy, hoping to put their medicine and shelter in King Don Pedro Aragon,
which at this juncture was in Africa, as a true Prince Christiano, with army victoriso and
successful in many Sheikhs and Kings of Barbary, assisted by the majority of the nobility and soldiers
in their kingdoms. Came before him Ambassadors Sicily filled with tears, mourning and feeling,
enough with this sad demonstration to move not only the mind of a King offended by particular
grievance, but that of any man other than as felt. Acordaronle unfortunate death of Manfred,
and the insulting of Coradin, facilitaronle revenge with the help of the people of Sicily, to his
name as fans and foes France. Recently I proposed a dangerous state of liberty, life and property,
if they do not maintain their value, for that and Charles was on Mecina, and threatened the
rigor of his punishment a pitiful end to the Kingdom. Moved by these reasons and that his vengeance
offered him, his reputation went before them Trapana with all his might, and went so quickly
on his enemy, who hardly knew Charles was coming, when he saw their weapons, and found himself forced
to raise the siege and withdraw folly to Calabria.

This made the pontiff as a friend, and the King of France and deed, the bare Charles showed
favoring and enemies of Don Pedro, and took arms against him. The King of Castile and friendship
for bereaved should help, it came to be, and bent to follow the most power. Don Jaime King
of Mallorca, his brother, also forsook him, giving help and step by their states to their opponents,
even if excused with the weak forces His Kingdom, uneven and opposition
to the defense of such a powerful enemy, apologize to many Sometimes
the young princes, conceal it wrong, attributing to the need that
is ambition.

Don Pedro with friends this was found not only with his courage, fortune, and reason to meet
The outrage and disgrace of his house. While he tried all lost, defeated his enemies repeatedly
reinforced new leagues and relief, all the broke and humiliated in sea, on land. Aragon kept the
name of a great reputation and fame, and was the first King of Spain, who placed his winning
flags in the Kingdom of Italy, on whose basis Today we look raised his monarchy. By taking
Charles of Sicily, he tried to reduce it further his obedience, and this was great and notable
events, but always home Aragon, secured in the Kingdom with victories, not only against the power of
Charles, but all the greatest Princes of Europe to help him.

Reyes died two largest competitors in the rage and rigor of the war, and right inherited succession
to Charles King of Naples, his eldest son the same name, which in this time was a prisoner
in Catalonia. A Don Pedro King of Aragon succeeded by his two sons, Alfonso greatest in the
Kingdom of Spain, Jaime in Sicily. Prosiguiose war to the death Alfonso, who die without children
was Don Jaime called to the succession, and had to come to these realms, leaving Sicily to
his brother Don Frederic, to govern and defend the on their behalf. After his return to Spain,
Don Jaime, recovered some of their forces Kingdoms Sicilian resigned
to the Church, fearing that the weapons Spanish, French and Church
at the same time not rushed, and his mother Gostanza convinced that
as a woman of singular holiness, wanted more than his son lost the
kingdom, which extend over time reconciled with the Church.

Enviaronse to Sicily to give effect to the renunciation Ambassadors from Don Jaime and Gostanza,
and provide the kingdom with the legacies of the Roman Pontiff. But people from war and natural
indignation of the facility, with its King resigned as with so much blood work and had acquired
and sustained, and gave them so mercilessly his enemies, who had feared forced servitude and
death, it seems to Sicilians true danger, and to the Catalans and Aragonese decline in reputation,
which what weapons they could not reach their opponents in so many years, was reached by a resolution
of a misguided King, returned to take up arms and oppose the Legacies, Don persuaded Frederic as
a true successor to the father and brother, whose name was King, and to take charge of common defense.

It
was easy to persuade a prince of spirits lifted, the flower of his youth, and which otherwise could
not fail to be a vassal and subject to the laws of brother occasion enough, if it was not
helped so many reasons, to precipitate the few years of Don Frederic. Llamosa King, and as such
he was admitted and crowned. Prevínose for the cruel war that threatened him, assisted by good
soldiers, and the faithful and soon to their preservation, holding him for the second liberator
of the country. Opusose to Charles after its largest and most neighboring enemy, the Pope
protected and defended their cause, and Rey Don Jaime, who was declared enemy brother, whose
joint forces attacked and defeated him in battle naval war that was to complete, and Don Frederic
lost. But the hidden disposition of Divine Providence, that some sometimes out of the common
hopes to move the events we know that it alone governs and governed, Don Frederic remained in
his Kingdom, with universal content of the good, wonder and terror of their enemies, and glory
of his name.

Deshizose shortly after the league, away from her Don Jaime King of Aragon, with great feeling and
complaints of their allies, because without the forces of Aragon seemed something fatal and
almost impossible conquer a king of her home, and experience showed, as Don Jaime paragraph League,
always the enemies of Don Frederic were losing, and he credited with victories, even to try to force
peace by staying with the Kingdom, something that's just thinking it was offended. Concluyéronse
after some contradictions, and more firmly established with marriage, which later became Eleanor
daughter of Charles, with Don Frederic, with which the United was free and without any danger of returning
to the old easement, and Mr. King peaceful state so valiantly defended. El Rey Don Jaime his
brother sustained their kingdoms of Aragon Catalonia, and Valencia with great peace and reputation,
beloved of his subjects, dreaded by the infidels, powerful at sea, served as celebrity captains,
awaiting an opportunity of enlarging his crown imitation d their
pasts.

El Rey de Mallorca au-Prince under the house of Aragon enjoyed the lordship of Montpellier peacefully,
Rocellon Counties, Cerdanya, and Conflent, difficult to preserve, for this split, and have more
powerful neighbors, among whom were always Reyes fluctuating their small, but by this time lived
with reputation, and fortune as the other kings of his house.

CHAPTER II.

General Election.

They had the Realms of Aragon, Majorca and Sicily the state of which we have referred, when old
soldiers, and captains of opinion, who served the great King Don Pedro, Don Jaime their son,
Don Frederic lately in this war in Sicily, judging and for finished, done peace more secure
by the remarriage of Leonor Fadrique greater friendship link among the powerful, while the
interest and ambition will not dissolve and break down, broken more alive because of enmity
and hatred implacable, thinking that he could not wait then chances of war breaking and tried
to start a new one against infidels and enemies of Christianity in
remote and isolated provinces.

Because it was so much effort and the value of that militia, and
both the desire to achieve new glories and victories, they had to
Sicily by a narrow field to dilate to increase his fame, and so they
decided to seek sometimes arduous, dangerous trances, for this is
greater and more illustrious.

Helped to give effect to such large thoughts two reasons, based on grounds of conservation. The
first was the lack of security which had to return to Spain, his homeland, and live with her reputation
for having followed the parts of Don Frederic with such obstinacy against Rey Don Jaime and his
natural lord, that Don Jaime auque Prince of mind was not vindictive, and was held to be true,
that as in the fury of a war against his brother consented to should give them as traitors
those who followed him, less punishing in cold blood like he could, and refused at the time
you were offended now, following the flags of against his brother. But the offended Majesty natural
Prince, but refer the punishment is always alive in the mind the memory of the offense, and although
not enough grievances for them, at least not impede the use of them in the highest positions: unworthy
of their service they deserved, nobility and administrative positions
in peace and war.

The second reason, and the one you forced to leave Sicily, was unable to see the King poderles
support of the largesse that before, being the property Real and United destroyed by a war of
twenty years, and they used to spend in excess the property of others as your own when they lacked
spoils of conquered cities and towns. As between the two ceased things made peace, and war
defunct, judged by reduced impossible thing to live in moderation.

Don King Frederic, and his father and brother, his assistance in the war, and as witnesses of
the deeds, industry and courage of his subjects, rarely deceived in dealing the grants, because
they gave more credit to his eyes, his ears, and always the prize to the services, not to favor.
With this missing from your complainers and malcontents Kingdoms, but not could give to all who
served states and estates, with some left with less comfort that his services deserved. But they
saw that the Kings were to sum generosity and greatness which could lawfully Captains to the
most signal, attributed only to his misery, and virtue, and incomparable value of which were preferred,
the found lower.

These were the reasons that moved the minds together to try to enlarge in new companies and
conquests.

Most major Captains who cheered and encouraged others were four, under whose flags, Vice Admiral
Roger de Flor served in Sicily Berenguer de Entenza, Ferran Jimenez Arenas, both rich men,
and Berenguer de Rocafort; all known and appreciated by soldiers of great reviews. Shared
their thoughts between its supporters and friends, and being with good disposition and courage
to follow them in any day, resolved to undertake that seem more useful and honorable. For the
conclusion This deal came together in secret, and before discussing his expedition, wanted
to give head because she was useless without any advice and determination, who can missing and
must be controlled. With the common understanding that this came together, was appointed General
Vice Admiral Roger de Flor, powerful at sea, brave and respected
soldier, practical and well lucky sailor, who in wealth and money
exceeded all other captains; primary cause to be preferred.

CHAPTER III.

Who was Roger de Flor.

Roger de Flor was born, whom the General and our elected supreme head pro at Brindiz noble parents,
his father was German, called Ricardo de Flor, Emperor Frederick Hunter his mother Italian, and
natural place. Ricardo died in the battle that Charles of Anjou had with Coradin, whose party
continued, being grandson of Frederick the Prince and Lord. Charles insolent victory, after
having cut the head to Coradin, confiscated the estates of all those who took up arms to help.
With this loss was Roger and his mother extreme poverty, and it was raised until the age of
fifteen, a French knight, Temple religious, called Yassaill, is fond
on the occasion of Brindiz assist with Alcon ship the Temple, whose
Captain was.

Roger sailed with him a few years and won such a good opinion in
the year professed that he received for his Religion, Brother giving
the habit of sergeant at that time almost equal to that gentleman.

With Roger began to be known and feared throughout the Levantine
Sea, while Prolemayde Said Acre by another name, surrendered to the
arms of Melech Taseraf Sultan of Egypt, Roger, as Pachymeres referred,
was one of those attending a convent of the Temple, and seeing that
the city could not defend, collected many Christians in a ship, with
the cattle that escaped of cruelty and rage of the Barbarians.
