 The neighborhood had
fled away in search of day labor servitude, looking to become a rich meadow influential public
lands that gave the bread to their families.

And this trouble of property, excessive and barbarous, was still tolerable in certain parts of Andalusia,
being by far the masters, living in Madrid on the income sent to them sharecroppers and administrators,
content with the proceeds of property which had not been and by extension
all yielded much luck.

But in Jerez, the rich over the poor was at all times, to make their influence felt. Centaur
was a tough, proud of his strength, which sought to combat, was intoxicated
on it and enjoyed defying the wrath of the hungry, to tame as the
wild horses in branding.

- The rich laborer here is that the worker
- Salvatierra said .-- His gallant animality and impulsive even more
painful misery.

Wealth was more visible there than elsewhere. Wine growers, owners warehouses, exporters, with
their extraordinary wealth and its ostentatious extravagance, embittered by the wretched poverty.

-
Those are two real one-man work all day - continued the revolutionary
- pay up to fifty thousand pieces by a renowned horse.

I've seen and I've seen a lot Gañanía blocks of Jerez, where they keep those beasts that are useless
and only serve to flatter the pride of their masters. Believe me, Fermín, is in this land thousands
of rational beings, that bed with aching bones on the mat of the farmhouse, converted to wake in
horses.

He absolutely hated not large estates.

It was a facility for communism of the earth, generous dream whose realization often thought
next. The smaller was the number of land owners, the more easily solve the problem and be interested
in unless the cries of the dispossessed.

But the solution was away, and meanwhile, indignábanle the growing poverty, abjection moral of the
servants of the earth. I was amazed at the blindness of the people happy clinging the past.
Taking possession of the land into small parts to workers, as in other regions of Spain, for
centuries retard the revolution in the fields. The small grower who loves his piece of land as
an extension of the family, is harsh and hostile to all innovation revolutionary, even more than the
real rich. Any new idea considered a threat to his poor welfare and fiercely repelled. Giving
those people the possession of the ground, delay the moment of supreme Justice dreamed of Salvatierra,
but even if it were, benefactor comforted his soul in mind momentary relief from misery. Arise
villages in the wilderness, those farms would disappear isolated, sullen appearance barracks or
prison, and the animals return to the mountains, leaving the flat for a living man.

But Fermin, listening to his master, shook his head with negative
signs.

- All remain the same - said the youth .-- The rich do not
care about the future, or believe any precautions needed to slow it
down.

Their eyes are on the neck, and if anything they see, is backwards.

As emerging leaders in their class and have at their service rifles we pay everyone laugh down
rebellions. Also, know the people.

- That which you say - Salvatierra said, - they know the people and not fear.

The revolutionary thought in the Maestrico at that boy who had been laboriously writing in light of the
candle, in the Gañanía of Matanzuela. Maybe that simple soul looked better the future through their
simple faith, which he with his anger, he longed to destroy immediately all evil. The first was to create
new men, before going to the deletion of outdated world. And thinking about the miserable and unwilling
crowd, he spoke with some sadness.

- In vain have tried to speed on this earth. The soul of our people
is the same that time of the domains. Stored in the depths the resignation
of the servant