 The
abbey is rich, so is the abbot, and nothing can better spend their money. Take this bag full
of gold, Hugo, Captain of the Archers, is ordered to surrender my harnessed the best horses in
our stables there. Run, put on to escape from your weapons, and go horseback riding.

Shedding tears of gratitude and respectfully kissing his hands, said goodbye to Plácido the abbot
and he embraced him and blessed him.

Plácido rode two hours, alone and armed by a thick pine forest and
trail just trite, who was meandering along the banks of a stream,
between towering mountains.

III

Night came fearful and grim. In this solitude assaulted sad Plácido thousand ideas. The childhood memories
arose in his mind with unusual clarity.

He recalled that six years ago, had been thrown from another nursing home and toughness severely sick
different. From his childhood, from the dawn of life, that he had only very confusing memories
grew up in the castle of the terrible D. Fruela, powerful magnate of the mountain. The Castle
was at a height near the coast.

From there, now leaving D. Fruela with good shot people on horseback to penetrate and cut Moorish
lands and plunder as he could, now embarked its satellites in some whips and galleys of his
property, and was to hack or hunt to more cruel pirates who infested those seas and invaded and
ravaged often coasts of Spain, were idolaters Norman of Norway and
the last Tule.

Placido collected for charity at the castle, the son of unknown parents,
was raised with love for Dona Aldonza, Don Fruela women.

Until the age of eight, lived Plácido in fraternal familiarity with Elvira, the daughter of Dona
Aldonza, which was slightly less than age him.

Children played together, and together they learned to read and Christian doctrine.

Elvira placid and felt that their souls had united with the bond of
affection more innocent.

Something had to suspect or foresee D. Fruela, and ordered his wife to move away at the foundling
treatment and the coexistence of their daughter.

Dona Aldonza submissive, to comply with orders of her husband, but not to the extent of avoided
comprehensive than the small page, the child was seen or spoke.

The lower frequency of treatment produced an opposite effect to that D. Fruela wanted. In candid minds
of his and her worship was changed into affection, and brightened and beautified with the finery
and splendor of the dreams the image of the beloved.

So the two came to meet fourteen. On a day that went hunting with D. Fruela Elvira's horse ran rampant
and was lost in the dense forest. Placid followed her to save her, and happened to arrive when the
horse she was riding stumbled and fell, knocking on the floor.

Elvira, fortunately, was not the least harm. Plácido dismounted with light, came to his aid
and lifted her in his arms.

Instinctively, without knowing what they did, giving both a thoughtless
impulse, perhaps driven by the invisible spirits and spirits of the
jungle, approached their faces and they kissed.

Placido thought is briefly transported to paradise, but the reality was more cruel to show
at once that was in the hard and rough ground. An infamous rain lashes fell on their backs.
D. Fruela had surprised and affronted him punished and angry. The pack of hounds and hounds and
huntsmen they approached.

Insulted the boy, although such a tender age, not reflected in danger or in the unequal struggle,
and spear in hand lunged D. Fruela to kill him. Elvira was brought,
ready to receive the wounds and save his father. Plácido slid down
the spear. The humiliation made him shed bitter tears. 

The ferocious
D. Fruela, far from pity, he incited the dogs to devour him, and ordered
the hunters who shot his sharp arrows.

- Save yourself, Plácido,
save yourself - then said Elvira .-- If you do not run away, my body
will serve shield and kill me before they kill you.

Plácido then
knew how dangerous, impossible for the defense. Most feared for the
life of her than for yours. It was light and agile as a deer, he knew
the most intricate sites lost the most forest paths, and soon disappeared
as if by magic, but not cry before your child's voice, which was contrary
to the firmness of tone:

- Being a parent it has saved you from death.
Now I run, but perhaps one day to find you again push yourself and
your hand as one pleased my shame