 I have studied both the case!

- Here are you - Pepe said handing him the pages.

- Sit you a moment.

The senator began reading to himself, and his countenance was taking an indefinable expression,
struggling to hide the emotion and could not. He must feel encouraged her eyes, and to disguise
one sign of welcome, frowned, but muttering, "yeah, yeah, here I
see something new."

Then he fell rows, but each time it was more impossible to suppress
the joy and, fearing that they knew him in the face, stopped reading.

-
Enough, I have enough, really appreciate it, take advantage of something,
yes sir, if you will take advantage!

Pepe hardly hear him. Did lose its cunning? Peace Does not appear there?

- I want you noted - said to prolong the interview - I've tried to gather all what was said
at the beginning of the project for years, here's what Gonzalez Brabo proposed ... this is de
Bravo Murillo, Asensio Calvo these notes ...

Don Luis had to stop
reading each page seemed to him a ticket to immortality.

Boy, talk! Estimated man's only consistent, would emerge the speaker.

They heard footsteps in this, and looked Peace to the office door,
his father-time repeated:

- Thank you, thank you very much.

- I
do not know what it is - then she said Pepe, - but I also I give to
you

Don Luis took back the papers, which appeared to be a magnet
for hands and in the meantime the boys looked at each other in silence.

Pepe braved the gaze frankly Peace.

Much at that moment would have to be able to say it with your eyes all the pretty vain ideas,
absurd ambitions that had nested in his thinking, no streets, nothing, fear, hope and poverty!
Peace had to hide his joy at not appear desapudorada, but did not pout of disgust or even the cute
wrinkled brow. For none of them was already secretly attraction that they practiced on each other.

-
Yes, sir, for this can take advantage - muttered Don Luis.

Pepe, who refused to leave without their top goals, he tried to prolong
the visit and looking into the room of books, said:

- Here I conclude
to fix something I forgot last days.

- Do what you like.

Pepe went on to the next room, and Don Luis, unable to contain, flipped
through the pages again.

Peace left a few minutes elapse, and then also went to the room immediately.

Pepe, Without hesitation, he approached her and whispered, with a
tone of sincerity, said:

- Mademoiselle, this time it has brought
me the chance, but cunning, but if my presence the angry, I will not
ever see it you say you do not need a single word: it may be sufficient
their silence ... We never see again.

Peace did not open his mouth, and yet, in the eyes of Pepe looked
all that their soul.

The girl, rich girl, heard that without a movement of anger, prey a delicious confusion: he
then offered her hand and she quickly shook between his own feeling at the same time as the
reddened face.

No sentence all languages ??of the earth had been as eloquent as he blushed. Immediately left
the office without speaking. When he left, Peace ran to his room, approached to a balcony and,
lifting the curtain a bit, saw him disappear behind the tree trunks the ride.

The gold particle was attached to a grain of sand: the stream of life had to drag together ever
since.

Don Luis remained in the office staring at the pages: "If this is
a speech! - Muttered .-- If no more to add at the beginning: Gentlemen,
at the end: I said!

Ah! yes, and some padding; few paragraphs ... my result, loyalty to the government, freedom, love of
institutions! "

It was settled, the court reporters have to work on his account.

VIII

Don Luis finally spoke. After many years of silent parliamentary life, the Journal Session
printed his name, not only in the common type used for voting, but also in bold letters that
were obvious, saying, THE LORD attacked: I ask the floor. When he read his name in the extracts
from newspapers, still felt shivers of fear. At the start of his speech the hall was nearly full,
by the novelty of listening to a senator that ceased to be monosyllabic: After many listeners
took to the aisles, but as peroration was short, there remain numerous enough not to make
bad role. In the bank two ministers remained blue. Pepe was heard from the bottom of a platform:
the data notes and quotes from its pages came intact from the lips of Don Luis, who only put
a short paragraph at the beginning of their harvest to ask for leniency, simulating the two hundred
thousand like he had heard before, also adding the odd phrase to praise the importance of what
he was saying. When he forgot some of the many who committed to memory, threw hand copied the pages
that brought in his own handwriting. Towards the conclusion wanted to expand on the original
considerations, but he was pierced in the throat and ended continued by stating that no more attention
not to disturb the House. He had a good have found a real triumph over the material gathered by
Pepe, Don Luis was well and nothing else. At the end of some applause rang in most banks, and everybody
said he had been discreet, that it represented great knowledge of the matter. A He congratulated
the Minister and this will offset the disappointment that gave newspapers opposition saying
only that Mr. Agreda had consumed a shift in pro. In contrast, eat when they went to see many
friends and after her daughter was at the concert Retiro, round and round like a bullfighter
who has gotten afternoon arm Fortunately in good thrust.

At home I leave Paz said:

- Say, Daddy, have you served the papers that brought you the boy
of the Senate?

- Something, something, the guy is not stupid ...
have good will and seems ready.

- Yes, eh?

Peace did not know how to suggest to his father the idea that somehow
use of services Pepe, he realized that Don Luis did not need secretary
or clerk.

In fact, his malice was late, the gratified vanity was ahead of impatient love. He was already
thinking in tackling other issues before the close of the Courts. In addition, fortune favored
lovers, because the voters of Don Luis, accustomed to his long silence, shot a cloud of congratulatory
telegrams, after the telegraph used mail and, as was necessary to answer such luck, Senator Pepe
determined to employ as scribe.

One morning he was not caught Don Luis at home, and became part of the books, immediate the
office: Peace appeared soon after, hiding her embarrassment, and
pretending to be distracted.

Until then only changing a few sentences, but without a formal conversation: therefore, the first
time I spoke at home, the interview would matter, pleasing given the complicity established
between them. Peace, after greeting him, dared not to deploy the lips: no experience in such ailments,
but her female instinct I said that it was she who should speak first, and building under
the left balcony spend a few moments. Pepe got up from his seat and came to it, to distance
accused greater respect than impatience, said:

- Miss, my first duty is to beg you to forgive me. I confess that vanity has blinded me. I
expect no leniency do not deserve.

What I have done is wrong, I know, and yet, I could not restrain myself. Why lie, if you need to
understand what happens in my soul?

She wanted to talk and Pepe made a move to let him continue.

- Before you tell me one word, I want to be entirely frank with you. My position, my life, my poverty,
and who knows if my education, I am separated from you I've made the imprudence of leaving poke
in the eye what I felt to know you .. Then I thought I saw that You showed no anger, because maybe
you seem too cruel contempt, and it has come this situation, where there is only one culprit:
my vanity.

I dint fix my error of openness.

This language gave wings to the living character of Peace.

- Yes, do you have reason, I understand that I am wrong, I have not come today because this room,
but is I'm as loyal as you. You want to believe in his sincerity, I have the right I demand that
you cross out of flirtatious or you think that I can have fun at humiliating.

- Think what you say, miss. It is too good to pay you with scorn and contempt the feeling aroused
in me, but you do not inspire in me feels pity, but the impulses
of his own heart, do not forget to keep listening to you now is getting
... What another man would be a game with me would be a mockery.

She, restless, smiled, looking like someone suggests that perhaps
did not expect to hear much, and the words stopped him.

- Jesus,
my God!

How you ask! Before so humble, and now so demanding!

- Demanding?

- Yes, you bet I would say get commitment.

He paused, Peace, pretending to be distracted away two or three steps
and looking back to Pepe, continued

- It should be enough for you
see I'm not angry ...

- Then, "you even knowing what is happening
in my heart allows me to follow you coming to this house?

- Do not
return you to tell me about their poverty?

I do not know what it is, but when you say something that may humiliate, it seems that I am humbled
.-- And he wanted to leave.

- No, miss, you hear me a moment.

If you know understand what your indulgence for me!

       Without letting end, went to the office door and very quietly, with
a charming pout, repeat again:

- Demanding, demanding.

What more could you want? "I'm not angry" - he said - "not you again to talk about his poverty.
"Pretender clarity would be folly.

* * * * *

After two months, their dialogue was now very different, that when the trail opens estimate, Love
widens and paves the way soon. Peace and shortness or felt or expressed Pepe founded suspicion
that what he was offered other than the future of each: phrases were changed protests of affection,
promise of firmness, the whole repertoire monotonous and vulgar lovers,
always romantic and exaggerated, but eternally delightful.

Mediated circumstance, however, between them, changing their character.

She, despite their resiliency, afraid to mortify the susceptibility
of Pepe, was treated with consideration that no one else had saved,
and he was cold, unbelieving, mocking, always ready to sweeten reality
with his good humor, was primarily reflective and serious peace, as
if you scare that loving intimacy which, in their view, could not
resist the time or would crash against the harshness of life.

Do not be so easy to get as often as they wish, eventually establish for private use, a postal
service. The initiative was Pepe, the postman deserve chapter.

IX

In the press of Miller was a boy, a mixture of apprentice and orderly, who was called pathetic.
He said his name was Pepe Maldonado, but retained no memory of his family. No one knew his origin,
nor himself. Just remember to have lived in Puerta de Moros, gathered at the home of a greengrocer,
aunt, which they considered very young, do not ever talked to their parents.

One morning the old woman, who used to linger in the municipal license fee of the post pulse,
was taken to prevent and, as a result, took such hot flashes, who died at few hours, coming to
be the guy on the street, no more under God, with mischief by instinct and ignorance guide.
A couple from the neighborhood gave him shelter during five weeks, but this charity was formerly
assistant desire to have intended to favor him; for when the wife have forced up the river
a bag of clothes over their forces, the husband, who was saddler, he turned green or purple at
the shoulders, forcing him to dye cattails in a yard that looked like tanks. When they ate, if
left over was for Pepe, if there was no remains, thanks to give him
bread to scrape the pot of stew, so the hunger and a fleece given
to him to get into the tub of green that had to be purple try the
patience of the boy.

He escaped, and that was the most troubled period of his life. Scrub in taverns, where he had
tips for wages, helping to cool to shout hardware and collect and sell butts, sleeping in doorways:
the existence led for about a few months, dirty, barefoot, shabby, hungry and flaunting and
between the tears of the golden chest camiseja strong as an antique bronze. Only There were two
things do not you try to look for a living: not called charity or stolen.

Happened to spend a morning down the street from Maldonado, donuts factory had a acquaintance of the
deceased greengrocer, who asked him how he lived buñolero, said the boy worse, and inspire so sorry
knew that there was looking after the retail sale, without promise of payment other than food
and somewhere to sleep. The saddler not heard from again him. The guys who previously had the
buñolero of dependents, which again, which less, they all stolen; Pepe Maldonado was flawless
fidelity. Before dawn, his master and apprentice sobaban mass disposed in the basin and then
fried with unusual speed balls, cakes and cucumber: Pepe, meanwhile, managed the watchmen, mixing
some flour to sprinkle sugar, scrubbing vessel, put everything in place and, when opening the store,
placed upright in the door, dispatched young and old donuts, greasy forming the zinc surface
table covering a lot of quarters and eighths of the Moorish, which left him the dirty contact
mildew-stained fingers. Or eaten a donut or retracted a farthing. No one taught mathematics, however,
to the returns of the currency was smarter than a money changer. If Eve were fritters, dispatches
the first, the average serving of liquor, assumed that the throat when the customer was insensitive,
given the cheap price how expensive, and for constant favoring the house was to find fresh pasta,
fried smoking, which had not yet fallen bubbles of boiling oil. The master was fond with him
in such a degree that he began to treat him as a child and until that was determined by evening
school, where, in a few months, learned to read, write and count. Year to be in the bun shop,
the daughter of the master, who was a girl of fourteen saladísima, ill with smallpox and, strange
to the common people, gifted in such cases as valuable as ignorance, neighbors, acquaintances
and friends left the little patient and their parents complete abandonment. The girl was going to
sweep and mop disappeared without asking a peak that had the wages, and the lad who helped knead and
fry cowardly fired: Pepe remained only there day and night, without going to play with neighborhood
kids or otherwise engage in caring the girl. Guided very clear understanding, was set well
in many disorders suffered, to say them to the doctor, then gave the footage to the recipe, with
due intervals, wrapping up soon as a girl on her wrist. When, for entering the disease the period
of desquamation was easier to get, Pepe, who ignored him, redoubled care and, during his convalescence,
the company was constantly asking the girl, satisfying their whims and tolerating his impertinence,
to that given already high, became prior to his post and continued to sell cucumbers to the
boys and all the donuts stringing morning in the reeds, which, with
the management of pennies, just by letting your fingers dirty and
greasy, then, four hops, was planted to see the girl.

So Pepe paid debt of gratitude to those people, but their principal is also well behaved.

-
You're already in the house - he said one day - find another clerk
to the office.

And we to see, you want to follow trade? Say it like you were my son.

Pepe said he wanted to be a compositor, because the school had sent him check friend who your
parents put on a press, which the boy always had the pockets full
of pictures of deliveries, romances a blind, hallelujah rolls remains
and pieces of posters of bulls.

After spending two or three months in crummy printers, came to end in Millan's buñolero was known,
and took root there at once, ie ready appreciated and obedient, they took care. The day was
spent learning the box, trained in composing and distribute, then began to monkeys and patches,
and the night was in the streets sell a twenty-five of a newspaper that there was thrown. What
gave him this sale as kept to himself, and a week's wages in full
on Saturday put him in the hands of buñolero; but what I liked most
was to give it to Isabelita, saying: - "Go, give that to your father."

The other apprentices, envious of that fellow who became more case of them began to take grudge
and play tricks. One day I took the lunch box lunch substituting tortilla press powders. Again,
as was in his shirtsleeves, I stamped on the back a freshly printed galley, with the fresh ink
of a sign saying, "This dog is sold." They even stuff you boots with the fat spreads the wheels
of the machine, while he was working with espadrilles for more rest. Then came the flap Madrid,
brave, Arriscado, witty and willing to give of cheeks or punched with the bravest, and throw
the trip at the same nuncio. With a few timely slaps became respectable. One day, another apprentice
got older against him a razor blade. Pepe took it from her hands, putting his strongly held
him aggressor's head between his legs, and as punishment he ripped up the seam cuchilleja back
of his trousers, then giving it the sun or water ever saw, a few stripes: after the razor
blade quietly returned, saying: - "Here, Bocer, that does not Pá serves only break bread.
"- A work hours was a model of diligence, he arrived time to do mischief, was the skin of the demons.
It seemed to have two types : one for the task, one for the antics, and it would seem that,
as corresponding these two people had two different faces.