 No country, not to be under the yoke of tyranny invincible,
has more government than they give and deserve. How much is strongest in Spain, more enlightened,
more discreet, and has ruled. Just be a man left note in every game that has not been minister.
If they are all unfit, strength is conjecture that Spain does not anymore.

No lack of people our backwardness attributed to any love to the welfare and luxury to we are
happy and satisfied to live badly, and not feeling the sting of desire for enjoyment, we chose
not to work. This reasoning is absurd for the falsity of the premise on which is based. All
men, and peculiarly the Spanish, except for some fancy, prefer eating foie gras and truffles to
eat turkey and scrambled chanfaina, rich dress and velvet drapes, to wear cloth, living in a palace,
to live in a hut, and going by car, go on foot. It is not an occult science to know that there
are cars, good cuisine and excellent dishes, fabrics silk, gold and precious stones, and many
other delightful objects, nor is it necessary to have a very soul lifted to covet. No one not
ambitions. If you desire, desire to be rich, wealth depended, Spain is one of the world's richest
nations.

It follows therefore that we do not know why poor Spain, unless we claim, and this I I lean,
who are poor quality opposite to that just mentioned: the love of luxury, extravagance, by disorder,
because we are very lavish indiscreetly and generous, and above all, because we do not spend and spend
without discretion and without splendor.

Suffer from this defect and have traditionally suffered in Spain for individuals and the state.

At
the time of Philip II, when we were at the peak of prosperity, when
dominábamos and despojábamos many regions where

The land yielded
their miners us, His pearls and coral Ocean;

Campanella was astounded
that so much wealth is dissipated without knowing how, and we're always
without real and borrowing.

    "Est, said, admiration dignum, so
    divitiarum consumatur quomodo vis, Ullo sine emolument, cum fere
videamus Regem laborare perpetual destitution, atque etiam ab mutual
ALIIS accipere.

"The same thing happened then between individuals in the State. In No country can say with
more truth than in Spain, it is not known where the money goes. By late Austrian dynasty which had ruled
over the world's best, Madrid was (let me vulgar expression) a cattle pen. Where were the palaces,
temples, monuments, statues? Anywhere. What we spend the wealth of America? What used the loot
of the subjugated peoples?

The destitution we worked so much or more than in the day, and humbled us destitution and made
us lowering of the height at which we had set.

On this day, the upward movement of European civilization itself bears us, and can not be denied
that in the midst of a thousand disappointments, one thousand two
hundred thousand troubles and mortifications of national pride, Spain
progresses and improves, but it costs good whipping.

Clumsiness in producing and slurred spend more to blame for these scourges.

I am a rabid theoretical free-forex trader. Bastiat and Cobden have convinced me, but in I'm scared
practice of free trade. What is in Spain that can compete freely
with foreign products?

The wine perhaps, and with everything except the sherry, the other wine Spanish usually go
to France, I throw a little juice of berries, and alum root lily, and we will re-sell, giving
us a single bottle in the price we receive one or two or three arrobas.