 

Just had got into the foot, where he was met by two beautiful young bringing in their hands
glowing crosses, which we introduced in a pleasant garden where the fragrance of flowers that
can not be compared with any here, and the beauty of what she saw, she was in ecstasy admired,
and having being presented with a similar fruit to the grenade, to only come to his lips, he filled
the hearts of both joy and comfort, I thought that it was the best and even the whole of the gift
of the citizens of heaven, but I was told the hearing, he was far away the sea of ??happiness,
which engulfed the blessed, are fully fed, satisfied and happy, and that he had forward, was nothing
more than a hint, a sample of what remained to enjoy, good and blessed just to make sense, and
the lower portion of the man, unable to the pleasure it brings to understanding the knowledge
and clear view of the divine essence.

Lucas had the right not to cast eyes on all sides, which saw new delights
and wonders; and wished to stop here or go somewhat later, but he
interrupted his plans and impregnated her like a squadron of blessed
spirits, and the most authoritative among them in the air of the countenance,
in the majesty of his steps and the glowing cross he had, he thought
he was Prince of the heavenly host, who, turning to look at Lucas,
he said some harsh words:

And you?

How are you doing here? Have you confessed? Yes, to which he added: "And these three sins? and nombróselos.

Poor
dumb, because he said it was true, that there was no warning from them in confession, own
ignorance.

Then the angel said: These ugly much your soul, and prevent side to come to enjoy side of the
sight of God.

Say to the people, there is no other way to come to heaven, but expressing sincere in confessing sins,
as I say what the Fathers, which pronounced words so hard and effectively,
than a great thunder shook him around.

This turned around with his teammates and wanted to stop to see the neophyte more closely the
great things he had heard about God and His glory, and see that ineffable wonder of how souls are
blessed, not least because they are in God because they see God in itself, but the prince made him
understand that no one who is ugly the blame could look in a mirror
in God, nor make himself a mirror in which see God, but to come out
of there and come back here to clear with penance and confession those
offenses.

Bye, then, the poor man of that blissful place, but when beginning to enter the first path,
he saw that he went to meet the Queen of heaven, served in large crowd saints, bouncing on his
face many rays and glare, which was stunned by the beauty with amazement at the majesty of
his countenance, and saluting His Majesty to him in his language; mad air and asked what he wore
around his neck.

This rosary is not yours, but my son (and boy named Luke whom he had taken by force), which,
as a reward to be successful with the white arrow, rosary wanted more than anything else open to
them; vuelvéselo as soon as possible, because in this thy great grief you caused violence, and to
say this disappeared, and their drivers or guides him back to the world, and finding at every
step troops infernal spirits who were flowing and howling greyhound way to go in search of
the beasts, all filled with fear and horror.

Come near his body, had left shortly before, it seemed more than a shapeless mass of mud and wondered
to himself and did not quite believe that this was in whom little exercised before all operations
and natural faculties, and never ceased to whine and complain to their peers, but they, smiling,
said,

This thing is you know what, full of vile and hendionda this matter.

With which to point their eyes were gone, no more vision and Lucas
Xarupá, or by rather, his soul, turning them into his body as if awakening
from a deep sleep, or as he said, as if to rise, his first care was
to call the owner of the Rosary and asking forgiveness for the injury,
then at that point was free of fever lasted still.

The bystanders were amazed that with so mild remedy that had escaped painful illness, but when
they heard what God's command told them, was amazing shock, the tears and the fruit, or was here
alone, but wherever they came the voice of this event were the same
effects, and who was good was encouraged to persevere, and who bad,
with the memory of those punishments, corrected pecante humor in it
prevailed.

And the rose began a life better, that if once was good, then it was a saint.

Quédame now, for a finishing touch, to say something of the zeal of these good Christians to announce
divine law and bring the light of the Gospel to those still in darkness during and vices Gentiles
do not seem to live happy in the new life they have begun to profess if bring others to enjoy the same
right.

For proof whereof, I give first place to the Missionaries, who, as eyewitnesses and experience,
not just talk about this issue.

"In this case, and other miraculous events (thus concludes a letter from him a Missionary Reduction
San Francisco Xavier, after writing that little has vision referee)
Ignition is in this village a great fire of charity and zeal to carry
the name of God to unbelievers ignoring you work and toil and death,
to be found at every step.

"

"Faith, thank God, every day is growing (says another) and wish many, ignoring none of his
life, put it in the surrounding nations.

"I am waiting (P. Knight writes) to certain neophytes who last year received holy baptism, which,
moved to compassion for his countrymen were offered to go there to
reduce the flock of Christ, to be participants rather that they enjoy.

"

So count of one Indian named Ignacio who can not live without walking
in search of infidels and winning souls to Christ, and P. Juan Bautista
de Zea, in its way to the Zamucos, we chose Captain of the other,
and him uniquely trusted most serious business that either people.

Another writes both P. Augustine Castañares of another Indian village of San Rafael, called Antonio,
who sought could deliver many souls from the clutches of Mamalucos
and put in charge on your taper.

Just be calm, the sky, after the time of the rains, when then to prevent
their missions, and who else is happy and who have brought more souls
to the knowledge God, spending in this company three to four months,
until they find place where you can to harvest.

Following is a sight to see the festivities and joy that makes the people at the time of his return,
and charity and love that they receive to their new hosts, even ancient,
implacable his enemies, he moved to devotion and tears to the Padres.

Danlos part of their poverty, admítenlos at home and wanted to put
them in her heart, so that soon they forget the barbarians from their
native soil and fall in love with the holy law divine, which guests
see as beautiful eaten as wild men under like them, it is a miracle
that even in the extreme needs to use, when Gentiles, of devotion
to each other, even those to whom Nature has been strengthened with
the strong ties of blood.

And indeed, this new Christianity is due to herself much of its beauty and increase; it extends
to both his burning zeal, oblivious to the obvious dangers of life, creep into the woods, and alone,
and with the Missionaries, to request conversion of the infidels, with more than one hundred
who have shed their blood and willingly offered prolong their lives
for the kingdom of Christ among those barbarous nations.

As you will see who shall read this clearly closely related.

And it helps our Lord to these your servants many times, even with miracles, to confirm more
on faith and that seeing the infidels to run before being baptized.

Two of them tell a long story for readers not wearied.

The first is of some neophytes who, having gone out to bear the name
of God to a Rancheria Penoquís Indians, while fervent in spirit encourages
those barbarians to quit their homeland, leaving heathenism and enter
the flock of Christ, some women came frightened, crying, "Woe, woe,
that water from a nearby pond that was used to the supply of the town
had taken shape and color of blood, "forecast them bad luck.

Then the villagers began to discourse on the case by different interpretations as the passion
of each, but the Christians to the point they cracked the case, saying that this was fraud and
trace of the devil to remove them from embracing the law of real
God, and to show that they went there together, and given the strange
mutation, taking Christians with great faith the rosary in hand, blessed
the water and thrown into it; to the point, that looks faded, returned
to his old water color and flavor before had.

Even more wonderful is another case that happened to the same, which, spread over many Villages far
from each other about a league, people gathered to cut santa faith and lead to a reduction.

They
saw that there was raised aloft by great big cloud of smoke and fire, not knowing where he came
from or who you have on (and by chance was also the cunning of the enemy hell), and came to take
over them, and because it was very bad wind could ensure life and
finances with the flight, and over and lit the flames in the first
Rancheria.

Then the peasants, all together, they resorted to some newbies, begging
with tears in his eyes that if they were true the things they preached
Christ and His Blessed Mother called her aid now released as dangerous,
and made all requested knees please God and mercy, promising the infidels
receive baptism and His holy law.

Oh, miraculous event! The fire went out without the slightest damage to the house where they
had collected, and they had INDUVIT by a miracle, because this house
was the town center and all others are reduced to ashes.

Neither did the miracle here, because approaching the fire to the second Rancheria put the inhabitants
thereof in great fear, but Christians then threw hand of the remedy. Hallab here the captain
of all, who bore the image the queen of heaven, this man, then ordered to come out to find the fire
and secure his to defend the holy image in front of his fury.

Wonderful thing! They cut through the flames without the slightest damage there, being so all
the houses were of straw. And most manifest proof of the miracle arrived the fire to a house
and formed an arch over it, but without any injury.

This confirmed the Christian faith and devotion to the Mother of God, and barbarians, conquered
most of the wonder that on his promise, enlisted in the number of
the faithful.

CHAPTER VIII

Preténdese discover the Paraguay River to communicate these missions
with Reductions the Guarani.

From the earliest years that began the conversion of the Chiriguanos
and Chiquitos with intent to penetrate the Chaco to reduce our holy
faith to the nations living in the vast space of land between Torija
and Paraguay, it was deemed to always wear the intended purpose, the
open road and a stop that river to the missions of Paraguay O Guarani,
in order that they were easier to provide these Chiquitos Reductions,
and our comfort they had to give mouth to the Father Provincial and
receive more timely relief to their need, apart from that it would
lower the consolation of the Provincial to see the toil and sweat
of his subjects in the conversion of the Gentiles, and end up in Less
than a year the visit of this very vast province, for when it is now
necessary walk two thousand and five hundred miles to visit it all,
discovered this path by the river Paraguay, only went about fifteen
hundred miles to visit Misiones province.

Considered these utilities, they do them the most concerning the intended purpose, although
secret judgments of God will never be able to carry out, but after much time, and that no fruit.

But
why should I pass over in silence the hardships and work in the company suffered and suffered
our missionaries, not to deprive them of the glory, that even here on earth whom should all
be concerned to promote the glory of God.

I already said above that the main reason for founding the Reduction of San Rafael along the
river Guabys was in the neighborhood with the Paraguay River to the discovery of which left
for the month of May the year of 1702 the PP. Francisco Hervás and
Miguel de Yegros, carried by guides, or as here vaqueanos we say,
forty Indians, no other provision that trust in God and trusting in
the protection of the Queen of Heaven and the Archangels San Miguel
and San Rafael.

Nor failed they left their hopes, because the trip was found in possession
of hunting fishing and such, that, in the greatest anguish was more
abundant and better quality relief.

Carried a catechumens, in a nation that past years had been prevented
to discover the river, tried it with great efficiency that his countrymen
received the law divine, and that the missionaries were received and
well treated in three Rancherías of Curumin, Batasiz and Xarayes,
where he stayed, for being poorly supplied with clothing and for having
been nailed a thorn in one foot, and after a few days went to the
afterlife without receiving Holy Baptism even though it had been used
with fervor that others received.

Due, therefore, many difficulties and hardships that not a few passes were accurate having to
walk through thick forests and mountains sour, and spend swamps and lagoons, to more of continuous
shock and fear of falling into enemy hands, they came to plant a
cross in the banks of a river, which was judged in Paraguay, or at
least one arm of it (in which suffered great deception, because it
was River, but a large lake that was going to finish in a very thick
palm forest).

In the meantime, some Indians plotted his death to save the parents
when it would return for their land, but discouraged from this betrayal
by others of better awareness, went to meet them and went with all
those people in the company Rancherías Parents of the people of San
Rafael, where they took home.

With the news of this discovery, determined P. Joseph de Tolu, Superior to the time of these reductions,
which the province to veniese P. Francisco Hervás to give this news Provincial Father Lauro Núñez,
already the second time ruled.

Can not believe the elation and joy that he had with such notice, and all quickly picked five
former Missionaries of Guarani, with a lay brother, so that the band Paraguay's discovered the
path that had been discovered and judged by the band of Chiquitos. These were the P. Bartholomew
Ximénez (who, having gone back to Rome Attorney to this province, flew, full of years and merits
the sky, on July 22, 1717 in the port of Buenos Aires), PP. Juan Bautista de Zea, Joseph de Arce,
Juan Bautista Neuman, Francisco Hervás and brother Silvestre Gonzalez.

And

because he does not dislike anyone read the events of this trip, I will work transladar faithfully
a daily record of everything he did one of the subjects were, which, after I put a lot of
diligence in finding it, finally came to my hands and is as follows:

"We left (said) to 10 May 1703, the port of our reduction Candelaria to give background on
the Atinguí, and thence to 27 of the same month, we landed in Itatí, where we were welcomed
with special affection Fr Fra Gervasio, the venerable order of St.
Francis priest who was that town.

From here, Paraminí threw into the river, where in Paraná River flows into the Paraguay River
and assemble this out, not without great difficulty by the fury of the winds that gave us that
to many days.

Finally, to June 22, cling to the port of Asunción, where we were
greeted with usual charity that uses the Company, Parent of that school,
and after four days start from there, carrying a large boat, four
pools, two kayaks and a canoe.

Having walked the rafts forty leagues, they found at a distance some
Indian canoes Payaguas, who felt they were spies of this nation.

We wish to speak and give it to learn to remove all fear and suspicion and to urge he's already adjusted
by peace with the Spanish and wished to become Christians.

For this purpose he entered in a canoe P. Neuman's brother and came
Silvestre Gonzalez close to them wanted to engage with them effectively
treated in accordance.

But it did not work the desire for them wishing to be reached, crying aloud: PEE pemomba comrade
pray Buenos-Ayres viarupi, which means Castilian, who feared for our people, who had destroyed
his countrymen at the edge of Buenos Aires.

Therefore, suspicious Fr Neuman they can be cut, turned around, leaving
hanging a tree on the beach, some beads and other stuff.

So, seeing the barbarians that caresses of us did not stay in their own words were then run to
get those goodies and more courage and security, arrived four of them at the bottom of a pond,
where they left some carved with beautiful art mats and woven delicate: prosiguióse many days this
treaty, with the Faraut Aniceto Guari, fervorosísimo Christian, vice-mayor of the Reduction of
San Cosme, who, eager reduction of those infidels, he tried, with
very friendly and courteous manner, engage them to get away with it.

It is the nation's Payaguá of unholy condition, cowardly, treacherous betrayals and ready to be machined
and soon showed these bad qualities, for having approached our Aniceto on July 12 to certain
Payaguá, with some sorcery that they consider, to urge and reduce them to receive the holy
baptism out of a creek a short distance away a sleeve of these traitors, divided into two canoes
and taking upon him treacherously killed him and to other fellow with fierce baton blows, and executed
these barbaric killings, drove to flee desperate to get rid of our Christians, who warned the very
late fate, and gone to the site of insult, they found the bodies
of comrades, unable to with Aniceto, and the next day we celebrate
the funeral for their souls, with which it can piously believe God
will use mercy to them by the zeal with which they were offered to
deal with these treacherous gentiles.

Payaguá seeing that our people did not show any feeling for this event, taking bold, decided to
evict the next day where we were, allowing himself to see a crowd of canoes divided into two
squadrons, of which, reaching one landed some people ashore and the other ran along the river,
but did not dare to put himself shot, before shortly afterwards withdrew, leaving no more after,
but to what further, in order to spy our steps once, in the dark of night, dared Disturb by
land ponds, throwing stones and arrows against them, but our Christians, little diligence, put
them to flight.

This was the only encounter we had with these enemies, who, if they
were in league the Guaycurús, people who cheat, but brave and enemicísima
of the Catholic faith, we hardly able to escape and get away from
his snares and traps in a river town from all over islands and inlets.

A 7 August we reached the mouth of the river Xexui, where before the destroy Mamalucos the
people of Maracay, Terecaní and Candelaria, was conducted every year to the Assumption much
of the famous herb of Paraguay, on day 19, walking along the shore, Payaguá saw a land whose
inhabitants had been removed shortly before a large island to that was before us.

Just back there when we jumped in our Indian land, and senses of death
of his companions robbed and plundered all, it was the land of the
cacique Jacayrá, where he maintains some subjects for the factory
of the canoes.

On day 21 we found a fort with a palisade and her three great crosses, and suspected Mamalucos
us that there would have some of their missions, we learned later
that this had been drawn and invention of Payaguá for God to rid of
a big crowd strange tiger who infested the country.

We saw little after twelve o'clock to walk on the beach barbarians, but without giving us trouble,
however, what amazed us most was that up to August 30 were not but two canoes Guachicos before
reaching the Tepotii.

The mouth of this river lies about about thirty miles from the river Piray. Later there a row
of obstacles by including a raging current passes that as a rule
masks.

But when there near the river carries little water, are on top of one of those stones some traces
of man, say the natives are of the Apostle St. Thomé.

Shortly later, in front, are twelve towering rocks, happy at the sight,
exceeding nature to the beauty of art.

Here began the Guaycurús to light fires and to smoke, e-flyers that are to alert the surrounding
villages that go around enemies.

Seven miles after these hills runs the river, which is situated next to the lagoon Neugetures,
it enters a river flowing down from the lands of the Guam. Throughout this lake living most
of the year these barbarians, and there raised many herds of horses and mules, using of Guam
as slaves, to cultivate the land and sow snuff given here in great abundance.

Other nations bordering on these, among which was a call Languages, whose language is similar
to that of the Chiquitos.

Two leagues beyond this lake flows into the Mboimboi, beside which was formerly a reduction in working
for the benefit of natural PP. Christopher Sands and Alonso Arias.

It happened that the second, called upon the Indian lands to administer the Holy Wadding Sacrament
of Baptism, he met a gang of Mamalucos, which killed him to musket,
and the other, falling soon after in the same hands, went so abused,
that finished soon live and suffer.

From here until the very extensive campaigns Xarayes profit in nature, without any art industry
is huge amount of rice farming, that every year make provision the Payaguá, wadding, Nanuiquas,
Caracas, Guacamás, Guaresis and other bordering towns.

In September 22 we Cuñayegua mountains, one in front of himself in the other the band of Ito,
home to the Sinemacas.

Here they were to preach the holy law of Christ Fr. Just Mansilla, Flamenco, and Pedro Romero,
Spanish, which the brother was killed by Indians Mateo Fernández
Chiriguaná because persuaded them that as Christians could not have
more than a woman.

On an island, five miles below, had withdrawn two chiefs, and Arapichigua Jarechacu, Payaguá with
all his subjects, who saw us seven canoes then dispatched to the big island of apricots, to give
notice to those people, as they usually do in such times and so they
looked far and near many fumes in the air, so that neighborhood around
are taken in large Payaguá estimate, which is of great benefit to
them, so they given to snuff, leather, fabric and supplies, that are
stocked with great abundance.
