 D.
Gaspar de Silva, a famous poet in the village, both for his verses as tripe, suffered cesarean
delivery of one of these that made him the boy deftly more of Ms Trinidad. Similarly another portion
of respectable neighbors experienced untold inconvenience in that memorable evening for the first
time that a young man sang Mass in the town.

As always, there were bulls for the dead. Privileged site, between the wooden fence and the altar,
not only were the matron and the women who had paid the rush to lend, but others who did not
attend any right, and what is even more worthy of censure, some few men. The new priest was almost
a child's appearance: blue eyes, deep and sad, pearly white complexion like a lady, blond hair,
slim body and slender. The emotion he was now very pale, it made its appearance even more interesting
spiritual. As deacon and subdeacon Asistíanle pastor of rocks and D. Narciso, a chaplain Sarrió loose
from established some years ago in the village.

In the church sounded murmur caused by the whisper of the gossips, who disputed the site or
reported their impressions, the oohs and aahs of discomfort men. The heat was becoming intolerable
at times. D. Peregrin let out trumpet their noses a few snorts like those of the locomotives, and
stood on the toes, unable to learn anything. If only I had the stature of its Brother John!
But this, which very well could have fallen behind, was well accommodated in the sanctuary among the
priests, the mayor and several councilors, which stood in heart a wave of envy you even more
stifling than the knees of giants behind him. Such was his fate. Although considered more intelligent
than his brother, and serve long years of public administration in various provinces of Spain,
and had read the César Cantú Universal History of Spain and Lafuente, without missing a volume,
and possessed the same fortune, retirement more than 2,500 pesetas a year, it is certain that
D. John, without Peñascosa never left or have read in the newspaper life to which he subscribed,
enjoyed far greater prestige in the village. This, by way of D. Peregrin, but not appropriate for
height. Indeed, D. Juan Casanova was tall, dry, aquiline face, large eyes drooping eyelids
and look imposing, venerable bald, short white whiskers and a measured and stately march. These
extraordinary gifts, together talk to a measured and prudent, had captured the respect and even
the veneration of neighbors. So great was the astonishment of their time to the arrival of D.
Peregrin de Andalucía, where he had been employed recently heard him call ignorant and fool
his brother in a discussion with him at the casino was about the tobacco revenue. They lived together,
both single and delivered to the care of Ms Mariquita despotic, housekeeper and sole owner
of their lives and property.

D. Juan, by dint of walking her stern look and majestic on the sea
of ??heads that stretched from the fence to the gate of the temple,
met with the shiny bald head of the pygmy brother.

Seeing the anguish painted on his face, he hastened to signal nobly to advance, giving the bank
site occupied. But D. Peregrin, perchance noting the impossibility of taking a step, or flushed
with anger, which had been increasing little by little, he replied with a grimace of anger
and contempt that overtook his unfortunate brother completely took away the desire to insist.

-
What is that? - Asked D. Martín de las Casas, who was sitting next to him .-- Do not you want D.
come Peregrin?

- Is that it is impossible. Who breaks the wall of flesh?

- For anyone.

You see how I go there and bring it at once - said D. Martin, Male vigorous and expeditious nature,
ready to rise