 

Did not fail to indicate the abortifacient property of ipecac administered by chill and since the
first signs of concentration mentioned above, typical signs of ipecac and many fevers of summer
with daily access: This drug suppresses the access and some sometimes fever. It is also, after the
machine or alternatively to this, the most suitable drug to prevent the development of access
and malarial fever.

Ipecac is eminently indicated after aconite in cases of fever sobreaguda with phlogosis in the
throat, bronchi, or lung, in children. The lack of this acuity and the lack of quick jerky congestive phenomena,
of stubbornness and susceptibility contraindicated in children, youth and women, even in a gastric
fever. Chamomile has many similarities with ipecac in fevers, with the difference that that
corresponds to an orgasm less intense blood, and to a rather erethism ataxic that spasmodic
in fevers and developed and an advanced stage.

Bilious fever or subacute gastric continuing propensity to vomit during an epidemic or in summer,
corresponding to ipecac. Fevers also belong in the sweat and there is excess spasms, anxiety and tendency
to fainting or even to faint and great weakness. Bryony also corresponds to the excess sweat
from certain fevers; but this is due to sweat blood orgasm lung and is not accompanied by these phenomena.
White hellebore is not suitable in a heavy sweat, but cold. Aconite has no spasms or weakness in these
cases, and the sweat is more sedate, but sometimes less abundant. Arsenic can only compete with ipecac,
if the profuse sweating which has, is accompanied by spasms, but also requires much greater anxiety.

=
B = inflammations.

Ipecac is useful in subacute inflammation, when the irritation persists nerve after the period of increasing
fever, his action is in relation to convulsive phenomena of members, and differs from henbane,
in which the nervous symptoms look at the head or come from the first, of nitro salt, because
it affects more particularly the heart, the throbbing, it unfolds rather neuralgias and alternatives
of chills and heat.

Ipecac is indicated in miliary eruptions of postpartum women, if there is distress, oppression,
sighs in these cases similar to the bryony, differs by the least affection of peritoneum,
but in truth, is efficacious in the majority of febrile illnesses of pregnant women, provided
there congestive spasms and movements. It is, finally, indicated in the prodrome of meningitis
and even in the first period of this serious condition, and it is also to the end, when the disease,
its rapid progress, confuses their periods. The Henbane is better in sharpness, and advantageously
may be given after ipecac.

Not proven, as needed, that this drug is more effective than corrosive sublimate and arsenic
in dysentery, but is useful at the beginning of this condition when febrile or that the depositions
contain much blood. Ipecac is often limited to modify general condition without reducing the
urgency of bowel movements or change remarkably, and not the suppression of their blood, an amount
which can reach up intestinal bleeding. But the doctor has powerful resources for these species pathological
with cinchona, ivy, arsenic, colchicum, mercury, particularly corrosive because each of these
in their field, they fill the requirements of the various cases of dysentery. Dysenteric diarrhea,
the colliquative, bilious or mucous membranes, have also their respective medicines, including ipecac
is the one that occupies the first place. Diarrhea of summer and all flows intestinal mucus
and gastric symptoms usually subside with ipecac.

If these symptoms is compounded by fever, in children, are almost always indicators of ipecac convulsive
movements, vomiting, diarrhea, fever, violent, bronchitis and oppression.

= C = Congestion. Hemorrhage .-- Among the conditions similar to the symptoms of this drug,
are congestion and hemorrhage. Stroke claims its use only in cases the stomach is the pars Mandans
of congestion, since its action on the brain is straight to that exerted in the stomach. Nux vomica
is also very effective in gastric stroke. After aconite, ipecac is one of the best remedies
for hemoptysis, when pulmonary congestion is characterized by pallor of the rest of the body
and spasms of the extremities. Matter in these cases to ascertain the cause of hemoptysis
and resort Brioni, arnica or other drugs that best correspond to the concept. In general, congestion
of the lungs that are most suited to bryony, as intercurrent require some dose of ipecac. The
match is indicated in pulmonary tissue congestion, and all cases of complete and permanent
congestion, and sumac in the less rapid and active that of ipecac.

Uterine congestion in fast-moving blood, pallor and nervousness, ipecac can avoid abortion.

This
medicine is effectively opposed to the normal contracted uterine
bleeding of this organ.

Decreases excesses rules congestion caused by a strong uterine and clears up when they degenerate
into metrorrhagia. Lochia excesses are reduced reasonable limits to the action of ipecac. Like
symptoms in all indicators cases, it should be noted a rapid or continuous pain and cutting
the navel, a feeling pressure in the uterus and expulsion towards the neck of this body heat
in the head cold in the rest of the body.

= D = spasmodic and neuralgic affections .-- These conditions do not
have to ipecac essential as the nervous character in Ignacio.

Are always the result of an affection gastric, uterine, pulmonary, congestive movements. Are
not those of passibility opium, no cramping exclusively the character of copper. They are accompanied
by pale the face, involuntary cries, and consist mainly of shaking or stiffness of the body,
continuous movements of the muscles of the face are presented in order to start a fever or
in the acute period, and sometimes in severe states of puerperal conditions, the teething .... Ipecac
has been effective in certain failure and intermittent neuralgias the eye, very painful ophthalmia
with perturbation of sight, and that inflammation affects preferably the iris and cornea.

Uncontrollable vomiting of pregnancy, for which so many drugs have been advocated and pulsatility,
arsenic, white hellebore, platinum cured ...., have sometimes usually
give ipecac and nux vomica.

It uses the first two, during two hours before eating, and the second in the two or three
hours after eating, this medication is almost always effective, but requires small doses. It
also produces a good effect ipecac in gastric cough with or without vomiting, and the teat of
children throwing unprocessed milk easily.

= E. = Diseases of the respiratory organs .-- It ipecac in bronchitis efforts to vomit, oppression
greater than the degree of bronchial irritation can assume, anxiety
or weakness that does not correspond to the mildness of the disease.

For their elective mucous membranes, corresponding to the character catarrhal ipecac, and adapted
by part to bronchitis with fever or cough, and secondly, at the same affection with expectoration
abundant and fatigue, ie to the initial and final periods, since symptoms characteristic of ipecac. Pertussis
where indicated, is eminently catarrhal and has a shooting pain deep in the larynx titillations
excite cough, sputum bloody diarrhea, asthmatic conditions but do not rise to pulmonary emphysema.
In the first period in the catarrhal or whooping cough, is when it is most ipecac after aconite
and belladonna or before the latter.

Ipecac is usually a precious medicine dyspnea and bronchitis asthmatic conditions, when you start after
the expectoration of cough and sputum are sparkling and abundant, so much excite vomiting. In
these cases, tartar is so indicated as emetic ipecac.

In Millar's asthma or cramp the chest, ipecac rivals arsenic, nux vomica and the elder, especially
if there is congestive element. It is less advisable in the suffocating cold, children at
least and humid asthma cure union of bryony, lobelia, arsenic, and nux vomica, At doses more
or less frequently repeated and alternated with those of the aforementioned.

Ipecac can avert more serious accidents: extremity dyspnea, breathing distressing impending paralysis
of the lungs. In the accumulation of mucus in the bronchi increases in proportion to the danger,
are of great use musk, tartar emetic, cantharides arsenic and managed
within or applied as vesicatoria.

Add the fact that the abundance of mucus, although the filamentous, with no other accident,
is corrected ipecac better with the same arsenic, if even some other irritation persists; will be
used to match and charcoal, when the flegmorragia is more asthenic. In the treatment along these
broncorreas always, are also useful in the Senegalese, the pulsatile bittersweet, squill.

One should not underestimate the use of ipecac in croup after the formation of false membranes,
if the attendant general symptoms and indicate, as already has been recommended effective
for this serious disease before they propose M. Teste, being on the other hand true that ipecac
has physiological symptoms very similar to croup.

M. The alternative Teste with bryony, welcoming much of this procedure, we can not argue in
favor of this opinion the result of this experience, and therefore suspend the trial. In quite
true that knowing the imperfections of the medical field, we look forward with confidence Experience
"and test that new well-made, continuously will enlarge the field of therapeutic and you will
find in many over properties not included in its pathogenesis still incomplete usually.

.=-- = Dose to the dose is used from one to five drops in water, cold cases suffocating asthma, congestive
affections, spasmodic and flegmásicas. Be used in lower dose fever cases less stormy, and gastric and
neuralgic conditions. It is rare to administer appropriate doses lower than those of some cells of the
third attenuation, unless in highly impressionable children.

Kali carb (subcarbonate POTASH).

§ 1 .-- History.

The potassium salt has been used at all times in very different diseases.

They've attributed diuretic, resolute, antiescrofulosas. Has been very popular in the treatment of
dropsy and consists partly as essential medication such famous formulas have been for ascites.
The elixir of Peyrhile, intended antiescrofuloso, contains a large amount of this salt.

Undoubtedly, the carbonate of soda does not have the same properties
as subcarbonate potash, particularly in mineral waters containing
them, but these properties have been prejudiced because of the therapeutic
effects, and by the general physiological, a much less importance,
and belonging to all the alkaline salts.

Physiological effects .-- § II.

The many symptoms listed in the esperimentacion on healthy volunteers
show that potassium carbonate exerts a profound action on nutrition
and vegetative life.

Febrile phenomena have all the character of a chronic fever diathetic without in their action
is noticed no acute or inflammatory, for if it is true that in pathogenesis are some congestive
symptoms, it is also accompanied by tremors nerve, numbness and weakness of real, if there
neuralgia, are the expression of fatigue nerve and long previous sufferings, if a fever or
symptoms of local inflammation, dominates the chills, sweating is missing or night and even colliquative,
and general indicates the hidroemia.

Elective action of this drug is directed exhalant system and absorbent membranes serous and mucous
membranes and therefore also to venous and lymphatic systems to those
who are to stop all the products of the absorption, and from which
all of the exhalation.

This explains the profound alteration that occurs in nutrition medicine, the glut of serum in the blood
and spill into the cavities and into the net splanchnic tissue cell, hence, in short, are the
nodes and venosidad stroke.

Its action on the venous system is mainly expressed in the uterus, so Goullon has been said that
exercised a special influence in this body, and manage them as abortion
for their specific conditions of venosidad.

Its action in the system node reflects the skin so that it is in antiherpes powerful. This action
is altering, non-plastic; debiéndose also report that this substance has a nervous asthenia,
increased secretions, and lack of reconstitution itself skin, and leads to the formation of
corns, warts and other escrescencias, in which deposit liquid molecules seem solid and the
limits of life on par the serum is exhaled in the meshes of the cellular tissue and the surface
membranes serous and mucous membranes. Finally, even if there's any need to state that EXPERIENCE
potash subcarbonate work on these surfaces, the blood separating materials pus to develop, we
believe, based on a small number of events, which is half that diathesis should be tested in
the piohemia purulent, as it is used in the diathesis serosa.

This medicine is still of great importance to be indicated in these cases, even apart from the
last property that we just talked about, because in addition to the characters differentials
that are deducted from their elective action, there is a tenderness
in members and skin, as if ulcerated, burning pains in the viscera
and members, itching, burning and lancinating pains dislacerantes,
dominating feeling of contraction or tension, and are followed by
tremors or numbness.

These pains usually increases in the rest of the second part of the night, and relieved the
air and free movement, while the febrile phenomena are compounded by the exterior air. There are
also very disposition to colds, the head and chest are more affected with the impression air.

Several
authors have shown as this drug symptom of swelling upper eyelid. As term of comparison we
add that this swelling is set at the lower eyelids for phosphorus. The action of potash is
subcarbonate analogous to that of sea salt, but with the difference that this is more focused on
the abdomen, and chest of the former. The moral is altered in much the same way on this drug
that the sea salt, lycopodium and drugs whose action is similar in elective essential equipment
to the hematosis. The irresolution, apathy, sadness, fear, impatience sometimes the irritability
of low achievers to work and lack of memory are common symptoms to
all this class of drugs.

Without going into detail but the physiological effects of sub-carbonate of potash, we shall
present the picture of their main indications in the disease, which will be completed the
synthesis of the distinctive features of its action under the therapeutic standpoint.

§ III .-- therapeutic effects.

This medicine does not have an acute action rigorously speaking, the
symptoms that reveal the blood are passive excitement or diathesis,
and injuries from nutrition or organic.

Just some character scrofulous inflammations are those that correspond to its sphere of activity,
as ophthalmia with redness of the conjunctiva, swelling of eyelids, suppuration in the corners of
the eyes, tearing, agglutination of the eyelids, photophobia, pressive
and even lancinating pain, symptoms which belong to all scrofulous
ophthalmia and to the people venous and cachectic.

This advantageously combat drug spots inflammatory corneal opacity, alternated with eyebright
and iodine. Red swelling of the ear with purulent discharge purulent or sero- also belongs,
are often exuding abrasions behind the flag of the inner ear and even ulcerations. Whatever
you want to swelling, or edema observed an infiltration pale on the edge of the swollen parts. The
lime sulfur and mercury complete their action in this case. The same order and have phenomenal
character in the nose, as swelling is accompanied by sealing the
nostrils, fluent coryza, sores in the inside and abolition of smell.

Staphysagria sumac and are sometimes preferable in such cases the sub-carbonate of potash.

Fluxions in the face that correspond to this drug, but rather consist in a swelling partial
in scrofulous people sometimes limited to a simple parotitis of same kind, or to an induration as a
result of inflammatory Fluxion. Parotitis that this drug cures, apparently has chills, fever
and violent symptoms inflammation. Belladonna is not indicated in this parotitis, but in the feverish,
and mercury is the best helper, the rhux agrees subacute parotitis, or rather, in which is presented
without general Prodrom; you can usefully mercury switch.

Subcarbonate Potash is one of the appropriate drugs to the indurations resulting of inflammations.