 It
was blue fox fur, despite the stature of Rafael, its edges touched the floor. The young man saw
that he was thrown over her shoulders a few thousand francs, and shy, with a trembling hand,
picked up the edge, afraid to step on it.

Leonora laughed at his shyness.

- Not to shrink you, no matter what damage.

It appears that you wear a sacred veil the respect with which it is! Not worth it. I only use this
layer on the road.

Gave me a Grand Duke in St. Petersburg.

And to further ensure their contempt for the rich robe, wrapped the boy in him, hitting his
shoulder to adjust more to your body.

Slowly returned to the room where was the balcony, while in the room sounded loud greeted the appearance
of the barber, wrapped in a luxurious robe. Cupid took advantage of situation to provoke laughter,
and recording the tail and stroking his whiskers, stroking which
a dramatic soprano singing in a falsetto ballad.

The gardeners were laughing like crazy ignoring the water that filled his house, his eyes widened
Beppa admired by the figure, the contortions of that man and the grace with which marred the
Italian verses, and even poor Dona Pepa squirmed in his chair, admiring
the barber, who she says was the funniest of all demons.

Rafael was on the balcony, near Leonora, staring into the darkness, lulled the music of that voice,
that strong interest questioned him on the desperate river trip.

The thinness of that layer that enveloped him, gave him the feeling of a satiny skin tibia.
It seemed that there was still something in that heat soft bare shoulders; believed to be involved
in the skin of Leonora, and the scent of her body, which was next
to him increased this illusion.

Rafael, in a faltering voice, answered their questions.

- What you've done - said the artist - deserves deep appreciation. It is a chivalrous boot worthy
of the past. Lohengrin, arriving in his little boat to save Elsa. It remains the swan ... unless
the barber is content with this role ... Seriously, did not believe here there was a man capable
of behaving well.

- And if you had died young !...-- said to justify his adventure.

- Die! ... I confess to you that at first I had some fear, not death,
that I little fear of death.

I'm a little tired of life, and you will be convinced of this when
I know more.

But drowning in the mud, choked by the water that smells so bad,
no I was amused.

If it were green and clear water of Swiss lakes!

... I I look for beauty even in death, I worry about the latter position as the Romans and feared
perishing here like a rat in the sewer under siege ... And yet, if you only knew I've laughed
watching the terror of my aunt and those poor people who serve us!

... Now the water rises and the house is strong, no more hassle than a siege and wait the day
to see. It must be very beautiful sight of all that beautiful countryside converted in a lake. Right,
Rafael?

- You've seen more interesting things - said the young man.

- Do
not say no, but to me, what impresses me most is the feeling of the
moment.

And silent, showing her sudden seriousness the trouble that caused
him the slightest allusion to the past.

They were both silent for a while, until Leonora resumed the conversation.

- The truth is that if the water keeps rising, you would have appreciated
the life ... Let to see, frankly, why have you come?

What good spirit made him remember he barely knows me?

Rafael blushed with shame, she trembled from head to foot, as if he
demanded a mortal confession.

I was going to release the truth, to overturn a blow your mind with all the dreams and anxieties
of those days, then stopped and grabbed a pretext.

- My enthusiasm for the artist - timidly said .-- I admire your talent.

Leonora burst into a loud laugh.

- But if you do not know me! If you have not ever heard me! ... What do you know why call my talent?
Were it not for that chatterbox of Cupid, to ignore me in Alcira singing and I'm known out here.

Rafael
was crushed by the reply, did not dare to protest.

- Vamos, Rafael - continued affectionately artist - do not be a child or intend to disturb me
with these little lies like those used to fool mom.

I know why he come here. Do you think you have not seen from this same balcony around the house
all afternoon, betting on the road like a spy? You found, sir.

The shy Rafael thought the balcony would collapse under their feet. Trembling with fear, arrebujábase
in the mantle of fur, without knowing what he did and complained to vigorous nodding, shaking
Leonora claims.

- "So not true, embusterillo? - Says it with comic indignation .-- So you deny that since we were
in the chapel, his walk each evening are around here? God mine! What a monster of falsehood
is this guy!

Lies with what aplomb!

And Rafael, vanquished by the joy frank, finished laughing, admitting with a laugh his crime.

-
You will be surprised by my actions and words - Leonora went closer to him, supporting on
his shoulder, with fraternal abandon, as if with a friend .-- I do not I'm like most women. Well
out with the life I live show me hypocrite! ... My poor aunt thinks me mad, because I say things the
way I feel, in my life I have wanted much or hate me for this hobby not hide the truth ...
Do you want it say? ... Well, you've come here because they love me, love me or at least believed,
the defect of all boys his age just find a woman who is not equal
to the others known.

Rafael was silent and downcast, not daring to look up, he felt in his neck look of those green eyes
that seemed to register you for the soul.

- Let's see, you lift the head a little protest as before.

Is it true or not what I mean?

- What if he dared to sigh ?...-- Rafael, looking suddenly discovered.

- As I know it's true I wanted to lead this discussion so that you do not live in deception. After
what happened tonight I want to be friends, friends only, two comrades
united by the appreciation.

But to avoid confusion, we had to make our respective situations. We'll be friends, eh? ...
This is your house, I consider it a nice fellow; so tonight you won
in my mind rather than a continuous treatment, but you will to promise
not to repeat such an offense in that nonsense about loving admiration
has always been the torment of my life.

- What if I can not ?...--
murmured Rafael.

- The usual mantra - Leonora laughed, imitating
the voice and the expression of the young .-- What if I can not?

Why should not you be? Why it must be true that love so great by a woman who sees you now for
the second time?

Such is the sudden passions invent you, they are not true, they have
learned in the novels and we have heard sung by in the operas.

Inventions poet who swallowed boys like suckers and want to transplant to life, not realizing
that we are in the secret laugh at his folly. With which as you know, to be formal, not to get
heavy with tender eyes and broken sentences. So we will be friends and this will be your home.

Leonora paused and threat thanks to the index, added:

- Otherwise,
I will be ungrateful and cruel what you want, but despite the beautiful
action tonight, you will not come here anymore.

Not worship, I have come seeking rest, friends, relax ... Love! Beautiful and cruel hoax!
...

He said these last words with an accent grave, and lay still for a long time, looking lost in
the vast sheet of water.

Rafael looked now. Had raised his head thoughtfully and looked at Leonora. Its beautiful face
was tinged with a bluish light that seemed to envelop her in a halo of idealism. Began to
dawn and the sky leaden veils torn apart by the sea, by transparently
clarity livid.

Leonora shivered as if he felt cold, clutching instinctively against Rafael. Seemed shaking
with a nod a rush of painful thoughts, and said holding out his hand:

- What do we solve it? Friends or indifferent? Do you promise not to engage in childish things
and be a formal comrade?

Rafael eagerly shook the hand soft, hard and feeling in his fingers as loving bite, the contact
of the rings.

- Dude! ... I resign as there is no other choice.

- You resign and you will find is sweet and tolerable that he believes
a sacrifice you are not me known, but believe me I know well.

Although come to love (and this will never) you would lose. I am worth more as friends than as
lovers. In the world more than one and two who know it well.

- I'll be a friend willing to do for you more than tonight.

I also hope that you get to know.

- Let your promises. What else must you do for me? The river does not overflow every day, nor are
possible at any moment these fictional exploits. I just what this night. You do not know how
much I appreciate it. It was a milestone in my heart for friend ... Do you want to remain free?
Then when I met him there in the chapel, it seemed you one of those
gentlemen villagers, accustomed to triumph in the village, they look
like its domain are few women.

Then, seeing him hanging around the house, was increased My contempt and my anger. "But that will
be featured señoritín what?" What we have laughed at Beppa coast you and me! I had not even
set in his face and figure: I had not realize that you are cool ...

Leonora laughed recalling his anger against Rafael, and he, stunned by his candor, smiling
also to hide his embarrassment.

- But after tonight, I want you ... as a good friend. I am alone: friendship of a good and noble
boy like you, capable of sacrifice for a woman who hardly knows,
is welcome.

Moreover, this does not compromise. I am a bird of passage: I came
because I'm tired, sick, dunno, but deeply broken in my spirit.

Need resting, wildlife, sink into a sweet stupidity, forget everything, and accept with appreciation
a helping hand.

Then the day know it, you, get up the flight, the first morning you wake up happy and I sing
in the bird's head so many crazy naughty me has recommended, I pack
up and move the wings!

I write, I will send periodic talk about me and you look like you have a friend who does not
forget and greets from London St. Petersburg, or New York, any of
the corners of this world that many think big and in which I can not
turn round without bumping into annoyance.

- So late this time! -
.-- Rafael said that never comes!

- Crazy! - Said Leonora .-- You
do not know how I am.

If he were here a long time, we would end to scold and beat us. In the background I hate men,
I have always been his most terrible enemy.

Behind heard the rustle of the gown which trailed Cupid strutting grotesque: it approached
Dona Pepita balcony to watch the sunrise.

Began to plummet from the sky a light gray, sifted through the dense
cloudscape: the immense sheet water took a whitish color of absinthe.

Floating in the stream like broom of misery the remains of the flood
uprooted trees, bundles of reeds, thatched roofs the huts, all dirty,
greasy, nauseating.

These rafts of the disaster became entangled between the orange and barriers were gradually thicken
with new offal were current.

Far on the edge of the lagoon regularly moved about some black spots, stirring their legs like aquatic
flies, around houses, scarcely protruding roofs, on the vast sheet of water. Relief supplies
were arriving from Valencia, the boats of Navy, brought by rail to the edge of the flood.

Alcira
Iban reach the authorities, the presence of Rafael was indispensable.

The same Cupid, with sudden seriousness, advised him to go and meet
the boats.

While the barber regained his suit, Rafael took off to the disgust of his fur coat.

He felt that leaving her, he would lose the heat of the night of sweet intimacy, Contact fleshy
soft shoulder that had been leaning against him for hours.

While the clothes fit the body of his suit and dry, Leonora was staring.

- It is understood, huh? - Asked slowly .-- Friends, more hopeless.

Breaking you the pact, will not come here, even from the balcony as tonight.

- Yes, friends and nothing more - Rafael murmured with a sincere tone of sadness that seemed to move
Leonora.

Her green eyes lit up, flashed gold dust dappled his eyes and walked toward Rafael, extending
his hand.

- Good boy, so I like: resigned and obedient. By this time, and as a reward for his sanity,
there will be extraordinary. No way ... we say goodbye As in the scene. Kiss you.

And he put his hand to the level of the mouth of the young. Rafael eagerly grabbed her and
kissed and kissed until Leonora, detachment with an abrupt move that demonstrated his extraordinary
strength, threatened him with his hand.

- Ah, rogue! ... Naughty Baby! What a way to abuse! Goodbye! Bye Cupid called ... Up view.

-
And he pushed the balcony, to which iron was the barber caught holding the boat.

- Salta, Rafael - Cupido said .-- Lean on me, the water drops and
the boat is very low.

Rafael slipped into his white boat, the water stained red. The barber pulled the oars; began
to walk away.

- Goodbye! Bye Thank you very much! - Shouted from the balcony of her aunt, the girl and all family
gardener.

Rafael, leaving the helm, with his face turned to the house, just saw that arrogant figure, greeting
them waving a handkerchief.

He saw a long time, and when the tops of the trees submerged hid the balcony, head bowed, giving
the silent pleasure taste the sweetness was still on his lips.
VI

The elections set in motion the entire district. It was time
solemn for the house of Brull and all the faithful, not sure yet of
the omnipotence of the party, as if they feared a hidden enemy that
might arise unexpectedly stirring in the city and throwing people
shout of victory which the name of Rafael.

Few remembered the flood.
The beneficent sun had dried the fields, orchards were more beautiful
than ever, as if the river to invade, they had fertilized new life,
announcing a magnificent harvest, and only as a reminder of the catastrophe
was hedge some crushed, some close to crumbling, a hollow way to the
slopes destroyed. 

Everything was repaired relatively quickly and
people talking about the past showed himself happy danger with contempt.
Until the next!

Also, a lot of money had been distributed. Relief
arrived in the capital of the province, Madrid, in Spain, thanks to
the pitiful trumpeting the press, and the gardeners, with the credulity
of the devotee who gives all his property to protect the patron, thanking
alms to Rafael and his mother, intending to be ever more faithful
to the powerful family. Viva the father of the poor!

Dona Bernarda,
looking ahead to realize their dreams of ambition, not given a time
rest. Indignant at the indifference and coldness of his son. The district
was his, but did not have to sleep. Who knows what could be done late
enemies of order that was enough in the city? Had to go to such people
to say four words to rich voters, visit the mayor's another to see
who paid attention to move much, that all people cared for him.

And
Rafael obeyed, but should not accompany him Don Andres, as on the
outward or return spent a few hours in the blue house or completely
abolished the trip to stay there trembling to return home if his mother
found out such distractions.

Doña Bernarda know this new friendship.
No other health concerns and actions Raphael, and helped by the curious
gossip of a city, nothing was his son who did not I knew a few hours.
Even had news, an indiscretion of Cupid, in that risky overnight trip
and through the dangers of flooding, to go to report to the comic
as she said with angry tone of contempt.

Then occurred the stormy
scenes that had to leave a deep impression Rafael of bitterness and
fear.

The hardness of the character of Dona Bernarda broke the young
man, making him understand how reason he had always feared her mother.
The harsh devotee, with his shield of virtue and sound principles,
crushed her first words. Had he proposed to dishonor the house? Now
that after many years of work was to achieve the fruit of many sacrifices
did you want for your hobby a comic, make a fool of a cause of mockery
of the enemy? E indignant, did not hesitate in brutally rip the veil
of caution after which mysteriously had developed their misfortunes
and their anger conjugal did not hesitate to dump on the head of every
child hidden misery of her marriage.

- The same as your father -
angry Dona Bernarda exclaimed .-- You can not deny his blood: womanizer
Friend of the losses, which can compromise by any of the luck of the
house ... And I very great fool, working for them