 Throughout the region are seen plains
and low hills covered with vineyards, grain, olives, etc., inks which are very beautiful effect
on the distant horizon. Without more than the populations neighbors of Cadiz, is the round the
bay (including "Port-Sainte-Marie," which is as adjacent) a mass of 114.153 inhabitants, mainly
sea condition, but growers in industry and agriculture. The bay is 58 kilometers in circumference.

As
shown, Cádiz mimics a boat floating between two huge bays, buffeted
by the waves in all directions.

If the situation makes this city the most beautiful and poetic population Spain, the interior,
its sights and traditions make it as interesting as sympathetic and funny. Cadiz is a city of
ancient origin, it was a colony founded by the Tyre. The Romans conquered two centuries before
the Christian era, and at all times has had the dual importance of commercial space and war.
If today is the first stronghold Spain, bristling with castles and defended in all directions,
as is commercial plaza inferior to Barcelona. While the Catalan capital and Malaga, Valencia, Alicante
and Gibraltar traffic dispute will turn towards the Mediterranean, Seville, Coruña, Santander
and Bilbao competition make it across the Atlantic. Its population, which at the time of Spanish
rule America did not lower than 100.000 inhabitants, is now reduced to just over 70,000.

Cadiz traditions I was interested in every respect.

From there came the most important Spanish expeditions, both at the time of settlements undertaken
on the New World, and during the terrible war of independence "Colombia," Mexico, Peru, Chile,
Buenos-Aires, etc. Colombian freedom was not anywhere as implacable enemies as in Cadiz, the residence
of the famous company that had a monopoly of trade between Europe and several Spanish-Colombian
colonies. And strange to say, that proves how much the interests of influence the political monopoly
of the nations - the same people who so raw Cadiz war do to the revolution of the New World,
was at the same time the refuge of the Patriots Spanish and the ark of salvation for the nationality
of Spain, in their heroic struggle against Napoleon and despotism .... Many ills suffered by the
Spanish people, without understanding since the cause of freedom and the right was the same
in Spain than in Colombia, and that the patriots of both worlds as brothers were to ally rather than
make war!

Other memories assaulted me in Cadiz. Aside from its heroic defense against the English, in
1626, 1772 and 1797, and against the French in 1811, also apart of the interesting episodes political,
liberal constitution of 1812 and the heroic revolution of 1820 led by Irrigation and Quiroga, Cádiz
me to remember that there was born that fierce Brigadier Enrile, peacemaker awful memory of my homeland,
and died there miserable, hungry and lacerated by a thousand bitterness at the bottom of a dungeon,
the illustrious and generous Miranda, warrior revolution French and Colombian independence martyr,
treated by some with ingratitude and supreme by others with a cold cruelty!

The belt of high walls (double and even triple in some areas) that completely surrounds at
Cadiz, has a circumference of 7.500 Spanish yards. Thus, wherever the traveler aims to find a solution
runs into a mass of stone, soldiers and guns, seeing foam at the bottom of the ocean waves crashing
violently into the sand banks and the dangerous reefs that serve the island ahead seating
to castles and fortifications. If the view of the bay is picturesque and varied, which has over
the ocean south and south-west from the walkway of the "Alameda" is a breathtaking majesty.
From the outset, Cadiz had offered me many similarities in appearance with the city of Cartagena in
"New Granada." Similarity is not the word itself: I do not know what analogy is vague in the configuration
of the island and bays, the exterior structure of the city, something very harmonious style
fortifications, in the atmosphere and sky. Touring the beautiful Paseo de la Alameda, the
squares and streets, and observe the people there, the guy community was apparent. In every
elegant Cadiz believed to see a daughter of Cartagena: the accent, the manners, the ease, panache
full of kindness and dengue, black eye and sweet, adorable smile of coquetry, the complexion of
a soft, pale brown, measured and lordly gait, kindness and openness insinuating, and I do not
know what's voluptuous dress, delicate but expressive forms and the inevitable game fan, - all
contributed to produce an illusion that made me think of the country.

The sun sank like a glowing ember in the waves of an infinite horizon,
the Alameda was full of walkers and had to do like a charming animation.

The stage seemed a large basket of flowers floating in the eddies of a stream. The sea produced
the standing of its formidable walls clicking, releasing clouds of foam snapshots, whilst hundreds
of walkers roamed amid the groves and beautiful gardens the 'Alameda', almost under the balcony
and the shutters of the splendid houses that dominate the levees and embankments. The reverberating
roof, - the picturesque balconies green and blue - the tall, graceful Moorish-style roofs,
- the bush filled with flowers and perfumes, - the animated groups of a population in which
they looked very different types - gleaming marble more luxurious houses - castles standing on the
distant waves, - the mountains, confused in the distance - the rough seas and swaying under her
mantle of twilight, - the sun, a large optical effect, such as swimming in the ocean - stirring gently
in the breeze trees, - the extraordinary beauty of heaven, - all this filled me with charm, intoxicated,
leaving the soul a very profound impression that I will never forget.

I needed time to look carefully. Spain is a country that can not be well studied in less than
three years, and I could only have three months to collect impressions,
noticing things more salient and important.

No monument found me worthy Cadiz special attention under the artistic point of view. What
makes this city a population Interestingly, its position, as a whole, their particular style of buildings,
their social air, historical memories and their economic value.

Cadiz, which had fallen as much commercial space since losing the exploitation of Colombia, begins
to regain its animation, thanks to the new steamship lines, to significant
improvements on the roads to the interior of Andalusia, and the economic
revival Spain has had since 1855.

Its exports are salt, oil, wine, fruit dry and other Andalusian, - is an important place of call
and deposit, and manufactures some objects of art, as well as applicable to the marina. Fisheries
seeks him considerable profits. Sitting on a rock, as it lacks running water the higher is its
vast and numerous tanks. Hospitals and has beautiful large number of educational institutions,
charities, credit, trade and navigation.

Of course, the climate, the influence of Moorish domination and the Spanish taste, have determined
Cadiz the same kind of constructions that almost the entire peninsula and especially in the
Andalucías. Thus, the streets are in general or in its more narrow
and gloomy winding, bumpy and full of whimsy.

But is there a particular stamp of elegance and taste not found in any of the other major Spanish cities,
except to Seville. He feels a keen pleasure to go almost all the streets of Cadiz, or to stand
under the thick shade of the magnificent trees of the squares of "San Antonio" and "Mina."
Apart from the interest they excite people of all cliques of conditions and the elegant shops
full of curious, wherever you walk from one surprise to explore the best streets, paved not
richly tiled.

Everywhere graceful balconies, discrete lattice, obscured inside by fine curtains, behind which folds
half hidden from view some gorgeous faces as appearances ideals the viewpoints of crystal air,
capricious on steep ceilings, windows with iron gratings very curious,
the vast rooftop adorned of vases with flowers and small shrubs sunlit
and agitated by sea breezes.

But nothing so strange, so deliciously beautiful and luxurious as the homes of the richest
owners in the main squares and streets, palaces true tale, of Orientalism charming. In all of them a
magnificent cover or rich marble and jasper, worked with care; an entrance that looks like
the prelude to a sumptuous room with the flooring and walls marble, stucco ceiling and superb
interior door glass with carved arabesques and beautiful colors. The door is always open during
the day. You approach, and a servant falls steps in and invites you to the point with the
greatest care to visit the house, although the family is present. If you accept, the owner (a wealthy
businessman) is presented, and a almost irresistible warmth compelling - to see that you are abroad
- I repeat the invitation, I pray that you may bring up, I asked if you want a drink, etc.

I had seen the splendid palaces and sumptuous hotels in France, England, Barcelona and Madrid, but had
no idea such a beautiful house, so as Eastern Romanesque I visited in Cadiz and Seville. You
pass in front of the vestibule, and you find yourself in a square courtyard and cloistered on
all four sides is the building covered by a high dome glass that makes it look like a greenhouse.
On the sides, on the ground floor, are the vast rooms for business
or offices to the owner, at the bottom there is an elegant catwalk
leading to the courtyards (patios true), standing at the sides, and
in snail, and at right angles, the monumental staircase leading to
the three, four or five floors of the house.

From the base to the glass dome is projected throughout the interior Quad-salon continuous balconies
so many orders and how many floors is cloistered home. There is no pavement on the covered
patio (which is how the central chamber), on the stairs the interior balconies and all parts of
the building, which is not composed of superb tiles square white marble and blue, or black
or mottled, there is a balcony, a door, a rail not have a thousand arabesques, and exquisite moldings
and tastefully, there is a wall not richly stuccoed and dressed. Each courtyard has at its center
a valuable source of marble fountains to cool the air, and around the campus are large jars
Gaspe, porcelain, etc., containing delicate shrubs, pots of jasmine, roses and carnations,
Naranjillos blossoms, vines or parasites, which embalm that heady atmosphere. It is believed a dream
with some of the oriental tale, and for the enjoyment is complete for the lover of art, every yard
of these are a few marble statues and holds within its walls ten or twelve paint beautiful
pictures.

Sunlight, falling vertically at noon, or weakened by entering the lower part produces the most
strange effects of brightness, shade and chiaroscuro, and at night, when the interior is lighted
by gas, this museum-garden in the middle of the waters murmur supplier, is a ravishing beauty.
This is where families gather, they are visits and enjoys home gatherings during the hottest months
in of summer, when there is no preference roof.

Cadiz is in marble lavished everywhere. In large hotels, in many and splendid cafés, theaters,
churches, squares and all the monuments there is a floor luxury he
admires.

Coffee 'Apollo', one of the most beautiful and original I known, fun and draws attention to
the traveler, and gives an idea of ??the character ardent, cordial, voluptuous and expansion of
the population of Cadiz. During the early hours of the night, plazas of San Antonio and Mina
(the first in particular) and large adjacent streets have great animation and offer the most
curious customs boxes. The women of Cadiz are usually beautiful, hot and attractive: that, and
the commercial status of the city makes the misfortune of them in
the classes most exposed to weaknesses and temptations.

Thus, prostitution Cadiz is in proportion to scare. It is unprecedented number of women in
unhappy establishments that kind of corruption, and experts speculate the infamy the direction
of those houses, which are the shame of European societies. Contáronme things What terrified
me, and anecdotes about people of high society, to be true, would give a very sad idea of ??morality
Cadiz. I do not believe what I was told by some people, and took Cadiz HOWEVER, under this aspect,
painful impressions .... Much could be said about what I have observed in major Spanish cities,
but the matter is repugnant and shocking, and the Colombian world, fortunately, does not know
certain things it is best to ignore forever. There are so many fallacies in European civilization
so much misery ... dishonoring the progress and do sometimes feel ashamed of what makes humanity ....
In Spain is a singular contrast, religion is not free: the Catholic believer is not no can
worship God, - but prostitution is not only legitimized by the law, but authority that regulates
and manages the carefully!

Sufficient to judge the organization of that country (whose people have admirable qualities
characteristics and severe defects of education) the simple fact these two contrasts: law speculation
the game through the lottery, but restricts the innocent and productive work; maintains and manages
the prostitution, but press the conscience and conviction to imprisonment to which distributed
the Bible and the Gospels without notes Scio father!

* * * * *

Despite the interest that could have the city of Jerez, as strong
and large population center wine production, we had more strong desire
to sail from the lower Guadalquivir mouth to Sevilla.

We prefer, therefore, this way, but we wanted before we embark interesting to know the population
living near Cadiz. Taking a car and leaving the premises of the city by the road to Jerez,
it is easy to visit San Fernando, Puerto-Real and Harbor-Santa-Maria.

The landscape, if facing the mainland, monotonous, equality of the
land and nature crop, but it is picturesque and lively, if there is
a tendency in view of the sea, is to repair in the shipyard of the
bay, where there is enough movement, is to take a quick glance at
the extensive salt marshes of San Fernando, whose production is very
significant and employs a large number of workers.

       The salt is monopolized in Spain, probably prove an infinite gratitude
to God for having surrounded by the sea to the Spanish mainland.

This monopoly (the state that produces a strong income, however smuggling) provides the Spanish
to the invaluable benefits of eating the salt of their huge costs and expensive bad, but why
stop doing business the big speculators who exploit salt waterproof.

The City of San Fernando, Cadiz separate fortresses, ramparts and a large sea trench that cuts the
island of Leon, is located towards the end of this, which is linked
to the mainland by two bridges.

Nearby there are numerous orchards, and everywhere revealed in the vast salt marshes, the gunners and
factories, the nature of their production. Its main elements are: salt, in a very large sum
(which is exported), land metalloids pickles and cast objects and marina, as well as arts and
crafts. The situation, of city ??is curious, by the way for the semi-circular canal surrounding
side continent and that determines the island. It seems as if two long bays or languages ??slimmest
sea ??water were to crash and confused under the bridges of Zuazo and Chiclana, which give
way into the country.

San Fernando has general similarities to Cadiz in its field structure, and appearance is little
more or less similar.

There is another characteristic that its astronomical observatory, which is much lower than in
Cadiz, so famous in the Spanish and Colombian geography. The population San Fernando reached
about 17.000 inhabitants, generally industrious and engaged in rough manufacturing jobs and
artifacts. The countless inns or isolated houses ahead San Fernando to Cadiz side has an original
and picturesque, this is where crowds of thousands of workers employed at the shipyard of the Ratchet
and many factories in the vicinity, forming at certain times of day many groups as lively as
curious. Passing through the midst of them feel a strong smell of tar, salt and other materials
that reveal from the first moment the kind of occupation of these people.

The yard of the Carrack, a kind of floating population and solid at
the same time, which composed of ships, vast warehouses and workshops,
offers an interesting picture, not so much the merit of establishing
the air as workers, buildings, etc. It is in that shipyard, located
on the bay near the salt, as to 1.200 meters of San Fernando, where
Spain has one of the best naval factories.

There are built ships war, and sometimes even trade of all sizes and conditions, and becomes
the cowling, as well as working on a large scale canvas for sails, ropes, cables, etc. Thousands
of workers constantly work at that point in the bay and its vicinity, and in the manufacture
naval, and in the exploitation and manufacture of salt.