 Let them wrapped in the veil of discreet
incognito, and we hear Fernandez, overflowing of his own being, because of the exorbitant swelling
of his proud joy, was telling what he had heard, while dressing their stories with salt and pepper
hyperbole.

- For in Sicily - said - in Andalusia ... and you know where is Andalusia, as if ... were, in
Cadiz, then. They say the Board of Seville has assembled a great army with troops at San Roque. Do
you know what that is San Roque?

It is as it were ...; you pose here is Gibraltar, as is San Roque
near here.

- The D. Santiago knows everything.

- Yeah, like who
has seen many lands and has been in many battles.

- In San Roque
are the best troops of Spain, both artillery and infantry as horses,
so that if we form this army, and comes on Madrid ... Jesus!

- Jesus!
- Repeated a choir of ten voices.

- Do you think that will come about
Madrid? - Asked one of the attendants.

- That's what I can not say
- said with emphasis on the Great Captain -.

But what I understand, and the experience I acquired in those terrible
wars, I dare say that the Andalusia army comes upon Madrid, and if
you do the same that of D. Gregorio de la Cuesta, you judge the shock
that will pass the French.

We must keep the secret very carefully, gentlemen, and you girls, beware of going very well
telling these things when they go to sewing, because it can reach
the ears of the Grand Duke of Berg ... I think the following things
happen: Andalusia's army will come to the Channel, the French will
to beat them, leaving free Madrid, where you will enter D. Gregorio
de la Cuesta, which, if followed to the south, they sting the rear
by Tarancón, and at the same time as there will take you back was
the Tagus, seeing the French attacked by either side, by force will
have to fall the river, where they will drown.

- How you know this
man!

It is a wonder that in this way can advertise movements the enemy.

And no doubt: this has to happen.

- And how the uprising is general - said Fernandez - can not go everywhere. In addition, can
not have a single Spanish soldier to help them, because every drop, so that if Napoleon wants
to continue the war in Spain, you can send people.

- And as for those who come, half die of drinking ...

- The same Murat is experiencing some cramping, which will take you to another world.

- Quia!, If you have is a shameful disease.

- That which has been paid. Well, what can that be but God's punishment for their barbarism
and cruelty?

- No, ma'am, is that they say, is fond of drink.

- Turkish Menudas will have taken since being here!

So go away, or will not go away?

- I think so - said Fernandez -. I have understood that it is very upset because Napoleon does
not want to become king of Spain.

- Angelito!, Since it requires
very little to say.

- And as it seems that rule of king of Naples
it is a D. Joseph, whom they say also likes that ...

- Is known to
be fans of the family.

- What you should do Mr. Fernandez - lumbermen
said - is to go to any of these armies, had no doubt where to look,
and who knows if we would make general overnight.

- I'm no good -
said the Great Captain -.

I had my time, and now working other and work of that time.

Those were wars, gentlemen!

This now is silly, and if not, you'll see how at the drop of a rooster is all finished.

- But the army of Andalusia, is it true, or is it pure conjecture
to you?

Whether we realize it at once.

- It is true, gentlemen.

I think Santiago Fernandez has reason to know what makes an army that does not do. When our generals
begin to say "Over here you I ', and I will put you in the know, day by day.

At this point came when he entered Santorcaz, and as soon as he saw the honest people formed
the audience of good Fernández, began to march in a bad mood, because
flamasón presence of that was quite nasty to everyone in the house.

-
Great news, great news I bring, Mr. D. Gonzalo Fernandez de Cordova
- exclaimed from the door -.

Aguárdense all, if you want to know the pure truth. But will these
girls? Why what I fear?

And you, D. Roque not want to hear? ... Be poor chance, then, and you It's their loss, for
they know not what happens ... The spear, Mr. Fernandez, take you to the point lance, and prepare
to fight, because it is about huge, and now see who are good patriots
and who are not.

- Do not take a joke these serious things, Mr. D.
Luis - said something which we can call piqued Cerignola winner -
or offends us to the neighborhood with their gestures.

- Do not you
know what I know? - Added Santorcaz -.

Do not you know that the general Dupont, who was in Toledo, has been ordered to go to Andalusia,
which comes out tomorrow Moncey from here to Valencia, and Lefebvre, who is in Pamplona, ??will
soon on the capital Aragon, which will extend Duhesme Catalonia,
and down to Valladolid Bessières all hurry with the divisions of Lasalle
and Merle?

- How do we know that you spit in a circle with the rabble!

And how are their grants of stomach? Are made to order wine from Spain? And the Grand Duke of Berg,
how's your fever? Is there funk? Because I have to me that if these gentlemen are falling pants
is because, as the other, which liveth ill, the fear remains. I really did not know what you just
said, but back in the office I heard other stuff I do not know if it will sound While the ears
of the rabble. Why will not my Mr D. Luis to count, to see if taste the annealing is removed?

- What news are these?

- Nothing, not much. When the French know them, you see how happy she gets ... That all cities
have appointed or will appoint boards, which will ignore what is sent in Bayonne, but ...

- But if Ferdinand is no longer king of Spain, because it has assigned its rights to the Emperor
as well as Charles IV.

What are these boards more than gangs of insurgents?

- Yes ... that removed because it is easy. Together Demons! And the very simple being formed armies
... plaything, lord of Santorcaz, four cats that were there on the field San Roque with a few
Cañoncillo ... And they have given in arming the peasants, the Castilla same as in Catalonia and
in Valencia and Andalusia ... But that is worthless are men and icing sugar paste, and I say
no bullets, with salivary destroy the French.

- What do you know
everything comes down to the Junta of Seville is forming an army San
Roque troops, who commands Brown, and Granada, which are orders Reding?

Well, that knows everything Madrid.

- Mira, Fernandez - Dona Gregoria
said informally - you are wrong to reveal what you know as good a
conduit, because I am not dull to know that what our army does not
be said.

And if not, for instance: if you, you're aware of everything, because of your great tino for war,
you discover what the army of Andalusia and reaches the ears of French can take advantage
of the news, and then ...

- That must be seized, woman, or what do you know about these things!

On the contrary, I want that Mr. de Santorcaz go with the story. And also in Castilla ...

- Another army, yes, Guards Corps compound, used to make war on palaces, students, rednecks
and smugglers - Santorcaz said, giving respite to the jokes and talking with complete seriousness
-. It is a disgrace for us to have to confess we can not beat us
with the French.

So what if many civilians are armed, if those unruly mobs, rather than help, the element of ruin
for the small army Spanish? What obstacles can offer to those who have had these unfortunate whole
Europe hallucinated, who deceives his ignorance?

Do you have any idea what they mean forecast, tactics, the genius of a chief expert to decide
the victory? It is sad thing to have come to that end by the blunders of our kings, but once
here, no choice but submit to what Providence has sought to make us. Spain can not resist invasion,
because if would resist a miracle, a supernatural feat ever. Condemned Napoleon and to be seen sitting
on his throne to a king of the imperial family, the most sane is
resigned to it with the consciousness of having deserved.

- Spain
should be French, that Spain will of Napoleon! - Said the Grand Master,
on in violent anger -.

Mr. de Santorcaz, you are an insolent, you're a foul-mouthed, you has no respect for my gray
hair. Ya, what can you expect from a shyster skull, as you, who abandoned
his family extranjis going to learn bad habits?

To say that Spain must be French! Get out of my house, and do not put more boots on it. What
do you think, Gregoria? Woman, you're with that calm and no anger buffa like me?

And rising from his seat, told Santorcaz majestic gesture with the door of the room; more like
D. Luis did not have humor to leave, because every day the same scene was repeated to no avail,
getting ready to eat quietly, letting it fade away, as effectively vanished, without bloodshed,
the wrath of his honorable friend. During the D. growled a little food Santiago, but prudence
and discretion of his wife avoided a collision could have had dire consequences.

IV

What I had passed on May 20, if memory serves me. I was moving slowly in my convalescence, and
in a few days and I found myself strong enough to stand up and give
some great walks through the corridors of the house because the house
of the Great Captain was to only release the long corridor, whose
walls were opened up twenty doors numbered hostels in many families.

Worse than my body was my soul, full of troubles, of apprehension and anguish, so sorry for terrible
memories as distressing presumptions so, my thoughts ran to the past to the future, alternatively,
seeking in vain for a little peace.

The death of the priest in Aranjuez, still forming in my soul a great void, I was less sensitive
than might appear at first sight, because I like traffic conceptualizing
he had brought a new saint to the phalanges of Paradise, I considered
my friend in the true place, and not far from us that if he could
forsake invocábamos.

As for Agnes, did not doubt that someone was in power to protect it on behalf of the relatives
of his mother, and although this belief had no information that the relationship Juan de Dios
amazed, I confirmed it growing, based on background I miss my readers for being known, and the sordid
greed of licensed Lobo, character highly paid to seize the girl and
deliver, through a good reward, who wanted to possess.

All my desire was to hard reset to go out and when I got it, I had the pleasure of letting
me know all my friends as a true resurrection, or soul of another world is back with a body
to collect arrears.

You have no idea of ??the aspect then offered Madrid if they do not tell people walked all flustered
and distracted, sometimes fearful, sometimes making efforts to conceal joy. The French hate
the hatred was not: it was a fanaticism that I have not met after
no example, a feeling that occupied the whole hearts by leaving room
for other one, so that's like the love, the love itself, and even
dare I say to love God, adapted and subjected to secondary phenomena
great abhorrence inspired the executioners of the people of Madrid.

To these alone were seen everywhere: his presence made to stop or speed transients, and this deviation
was so extraordinary that even seemed concerned themselves of deep
regret and watching them morose and sullen, feeling that the ground
will burn the soles of the feet.

Had filled trenches and batteries Retirement, and to see at all his pride and presumption of
the invaders, there was nothing to lead the ride to the East, and are found in large groups
around the bars, or strolling along the road of Aragon. No Spanish was heading there, unless
the rogues, who, then as now, liked to poke its nose everywhere. Led to my curiosity, I approached
Retreat, and also toured other sites to the south, also busy positions advantageous.

Madrid inside the shops were deserted, as everyone gathered to request or report news gathered
in hidden places, is worthy of note that even then began to give its first signs of life the secret
societies, though I did not see any, I say this only with reference
to vague rumors.

As the desire for news on the lifting of the provinces was a fever that were not exempt or
children or the elderly, or women, when it was known that D. John Doe had received a letter Andalusia,
Galicia and Catalonia, the house was filled with friends, even strangers is allowed to loudly invade
not wait to tell them the big event. Sacábanse copies of letters that spoke of the Board of Seville
and the uprising of the troops San Roque, and those copies circulated with a rapidity that would
envy the modern Press periodically.

Every day and every hour there was talk of the officers who had fled Madrid join armies or Blake
Cuesta, and when faced with a military or a young countryman of good size and vigor, is not
it to another question: "Do you when are you going? "The families of the victims had forgotten
to pray for the dead, and thought to equip the living. Shortage of laborers and artisans, because
of the slums departing daily many men to swell the items and Mancha Toledo, and despite the
brutal side of the French General, and missing weapons in the houses, and the fugitives departed
empty-handed.

The invaders, who watched the hatred of the fearful suspicion capital which has suffered its devastating
effects, not allowed, being so great in number and strength, which
is manifested what the locals thought and felt, but even so, how many
songs, many jácaras, romances and tenths suddenly sprang the popular
vein, and threatening to resentment, and Zahir with spicy jokes that
no one knows but by the abusive name of the scoundrel!

At the bottom of this great upheaval, among many misgivings, had a secret joy, for as day after
day came news of new surveys, all the French thought and placed on the verge of embarrassing
retreat. That joy, that confidence, that blind faith in the superiority of the heterogeneous
and discordant popular forces that wait provided, that not believing in defeat, that no matter
who cured the collapse, were Because of the definitive victory in such a long war, and it may
be said that the strategy, strength and tactics, which are human things can not and may never anything
against the enthusiasm that is divine.

As was natural, news, the survey was wildly exaggerated, and the popular
delusions saw thousands of men where there were only hundreds.

When the news came from Bayonne were subjected to systematic contempt, and the provisions
of the palace of Marras, as well as Cortes ridiculous call in the city of Adour, and the lawsuit
tribute to some great tributes to Bonaparte, gave fuel to bloody satire. When some said that
Madrid king would come from Napoleon's brother, was standing for the most ingenious improvisations
the epigrammatic genre.

All gatherings, which then was great, because society is not yet spilled cafes, were, shall we
say, real clubs where deaf and terrible beating conspiracy national.

It conspired with desire, with the news, with suspicion, with hyperbole, with satire, with truth
and lies, with weeping tribute to the dead and prayers for the triumph of the living.

V

This was Madrid in late May 1808, before the first cannon shots sounded Cabezón and the first shots
of the Bruch. Having said this, let me talk a little about myself, basis for that misfortune is always
echo throughout discreet and sensitive person, I think I'm not sack of straw in the eyes of
my readers, and that some interest will inspire painful trances of my stormy life. I need to
also explain why I started my causes Trip to Andalucia in May and June, and if all of a sudden
I submit Despeñaperros way in Santorcaz unknown company, you would be correct not to explain
the motives or journey so dangerous, nor my sudden accommodation with this singular man.

It is therefore the case that, not satisfied with the news about Agnes gave me Juan de Dios, I tried
to find the truth and had the happy idea, rather, the inspiration, to appear home of the Marquise,
who did not find, but Divine Providence wanted a servant, known mine from the famous night of
the performance, came out to meet me, and after show very obsequious, satisfy my curiosity
on that point. As I said, the same day 3 May there appeared a man with green goggles, which
led within a litter at a tearful young and seemingly ill. Not finding the woman, asked by his brother,
with which he had to confer more than two hours.

After bye, leaving the madamita at home.

The brother of Mrs. Marquise, who was none other than that holiday diplomat who met in October
1807, started the day 4 to Cordoba to join his sister and niece, and anything weird! - server told
me that strange - it took the young girl.

- "So that now are all
in Córdoba? - I asked.

- Yes, and according to reports, believe not
come until these things are gone.

That of Miss brought in the litter has been much talk to the servants,
and my wife says ... but better shut up.

The man one of the green goggles had been some days here and sometimes Ms. Condesa, other aunt,
received him. Bad man looks.

- What did the young resistance when they tried to take it?

- If you looked dead, what resistance could I do? As we had to load two to put in the car ...

I do not know if what I heard and mean time draw the attention of
my readers, but what yes they have to cause surprise, what I say surprise,
big surprise, is knowing that I dared to defy the wrath of the Wolf
degree, the same Wolf of yore, not hesitating to risk it all to clarify
what disturbed me so deeply.

Not wanting to appear even in shadow by Sal hated street, I sought back in the Mayor's House
and Court, where with I thought surely find him, and to the point where I was ... No, not credible,
they will not you to believe. I need to swear? Well, I swear, I swear it's true. Well at first I
saw, Echomen arms around his neck, showing great interest in me, and not only asked me news about
my health, but tell him he asked me some details my squad and for him miraculous resurrection.

I
remained stunned, but not quiet so unusual softness assuming that would work its elegant cunning
and preparation of a new coup against me, but when I asked him the state in which the process was
famous, he replied that no one thought such a thing because as the French were friends of the
Prince of Peace, not desirable to disturb the servers and friends
of the latter.

- No I - said - that His Highness the Grand Duke amosque.

That was a joke, and Having A on, the point would have been released. But say, rogue ... "So you
were handsome Ms Agnes? Tell me everything: where you met? Ah, well understood that kept Requejo
treasure in your home

!