 

The application of the various preparations of mercury in syphilitic ulcers of all species,
requires distinctions that indication, although slightly. The early blight in first syphilis
or a second infection after a perfect cure, merely requires the use of live or soluble mercury
in a dose of 3 to 4 grams of each of the three crushing, fractions taken for daily morning and evening,
for twenty to thirty days. The red precipitate preparation is preferable when the former has
been ineffective for several causes, for example, people who have suffered repeated infection.
Cinnabar addresses the chancre simple and primitive, when the fund is raised on the edges
yours in the same cases happen to the previous advantage.

The red precipitate is generally agreed inflamed or indurated chancre. Have been used biyoduro
of mercury to the indurated chancre, insensitive, and the indolent bubo. More whatever you want
mercurial preparation chosen, it is necessary to exhaust its action, after administered the
appropriate dose, if you want to produce an alteration or delay improvement of the patient.
Indurated chancre treatment requires two to three weeks rather than the early blight, and equal
doses, but continued longer.

Chancroid, and primitive, indurated, if you have a character with a tendency to phagedenic destruction
tissues, or if he holds the urethra and swells to extend, claims the corrosive sublimate that
work best in people debilitated or cachectic, and when the pains are burning. Often confined
to combat malignancy, to simplify, then it is replaced with another preparation that best suits
the condition of blight modified by it. Ulcers secondary soft palate, the wings of the nose, scrofulous
ulcers of the cornea which extend rapidly and whose secretion is ichorous with photophobia, and general
conditions scrofulous with swelling, inflammation, tissue destruction and wasting, under perfectly
with corrosive sublimate and open buboes that are very enlarged and very painful.

The bubo simple, primitive, and orchitis blennorrhagic, in short, all accidents early syphilis,
in well-formed or unaccustomed to the disease, it is enough mercury with or without the simple
chancre. Calls for calomel blennorrhagic ophthalmia and sometimes corrosive sublimate. The consecutive
bubo required to precipitate canker red, as well as syphilitic changes of the mouth and tonsils
with concretions and ulcers, scrofulous ulcers and likewise starting with a blister.

Canker in the mouth with salivation, stomatitis in without any extraordinary accident, calomel
is indicated. Respect to the thrush, is convenient to reveal that those of mercury are deep
and thin, with gray background and a dark red mucosa around them: this color is pale phosphoric
acid canker, and red in the mezereum. Hydrochloric acid canker, charcoal and quinine are more atonic
and ensuing after a gangrenous affection, or are themselves gangrenous.

Although the red precipitate is useful in syphilitic tubercles of the skin, the syphilids impetiginosa,
whose crusts are covered with small ulcers, the mercury is biyoduro preferable in the ensuing
tuberculous indurations after healing of indurated chancres. These concretions hide the danger
of a chancre phagedenic, and when actually opened, they should call the attention of the physician.
In this case, the mercury biyoduro is an effective way. Also what is blennorrhagic epididymitis,
orchitis in subacute with or without persistence of flow in the scrotum syphilid: this condition
is characterized by concretions esfolía whose surface and secretes a serum to which replace movies
that break off and leave the skin red itchy meat.

The mercury biyoduro also plays in ulcers that replace concretions that we talked, even when it
extends and spreads to the skin abscesses in the claim year also this medicine. These disclosures
often leave behind them an induration TB cell tissue located between the skin and fascia superficialis,
induration frequently renewing the abscess. Calomel cure the abscess, and mercury biyoduro
induration. This medicine is a resource eSCelente the uterus to decrease myocardial of this body,
this property is healing, not just the clinical facts, but their physiological effects. It has
therefore a very useful action in cases of this kind which are not to syphilis.

The lowest dose of calomel expose to salivation and stomatitis to
mercury, for which reason the physician should be sparing in their
use, even in doses them extremely attenuated; should reserve for conditions
that heals better than any other salt mercurial, when These conditions
are, for example, sore throat, mouth, pain osteócopos, etc .....

In
view of the esponse, mercury live is rarely the best way in the secondary
accidents, much less in tertiary syphilis, and is therefore always
preferable mercurial preparations, at least in the beginning of a
recent infection, has been used conveniently mercury.

It must be confessed that the illegal treatments, remedies secrets or misapplied, and neglect
of certain patients to the doctor frequently put in pregnancy to assess further means have been
used and even the nature of evil that can be mercurial and syphilitic judge him, and vice-versa.
This is precisely what which is one of the difficulties presented
to cure accidents more or less remote such as blemishes, pimples,
pustules, tuberculosis, thrush indurated, excoriation of the mucous,
mucous patches, tubers, caries, periostitis, exhausts, osteócopos
pain, tumors gummy, ozena syphilis, and other accidents even more
remote, whose cure by means antisyphilitic expresses or discover the
source, such as: certain gastritis, migraines and headaches, rheumatic
pain .....

More than those who want the difficulties of these treatments
may be resorted to drugs which, like lime sulfur, acid whipped and
mezereum yours, play in the transformation of syphilis throughout
the body.

Well soon returned to say something about this when talking about diathesis, but before boarding the
examination of syphilitic affections of the skin, indicate azoato mercury that is best described
in syphilitic vegetations soft, bleeding, less painful and flat, located in the throat, anus and
tongue.

In this symptom, as in any other of syphilis, it is important to note that The doctor instructed
carefully avoids any cauterization and excision all until implementation medicinal ointments
and lotions irritants. The reason for this is that the symptoms, canker and vegetation, internal virus
expression, which indicates the strength outward manifestation or languor, regularity or aberration,
it is important to leave remaining to recognize the effect of treatment on changes to suffer. This
practice is therefore more rational and easier, and unfortunately some sick leave, which, thanks
to his impatience, but cut a escrescencia believe will reappear many times as is started, to wait
some days to see them shrivel, dry up and disappear without pain
and without a trace, the effective influence of mercury, acid and
whipped administered within yours.

= D = skin ailments .-- It is clear that the skin conditions known by the name of syphilid and
clearly described in the books, are easy to diagnose and to submit unambiguous characters. Mercury
on the other hand is not only effective in skin diseases from a secondary manifestation of syphilis,
but also it is in several herpetic and scrofulous affections.

The syphilids can take all forms of skin diseases. Manifest sometimes simultaneously with early
symptoms, although most are checked after and even with months and years apart. There are circumstances
in which these eruptions are accompanied febrile movement and night pain in the bones and joints,
almost always alternating with other symptoms syphilis. Genitals, the margin of the anus, face,
forehead, back, and abdomen are preference points. Whatever you want the form, always have a
particular color of red or yellow violet dirty is designated with the name of hepatic copper,
and generally exhibit a marked tendency to ulceration lining the syphilitic nature.

Syphilitic pustules, and in particular the corona veneris, preferably yours require acid and
whipped, after living or cinnabar mercury.

The scales and all esfoliaciones, even the palms of the hands, distinctive coppery appearance,
claiming the sublimate corrosive, cinnabar, and the more, the clematis, the club moss, the mezereum.
In the tubers, biyoduro effective the mercury and the carbonate of lime. The sores disappear
with the Ethiopian mineral, azoato mercury, silica, and yours Staphysagria when crust over
and placed on the genitals.

In all forms of syphilids are more mercurial salts indicated that mercury vivo. Cinnabar generally
corresponds more closely to the vesicular eruptions, to the vesicles isolated or pleasure on red
background, in the ruddy swellings, erysipelatous the cheeks and eyelids, mucous stains, in
the nasal mucosa fluxions with excess of secretion, which extends to the lip Fluxion blisters,
and itching is violent. Calomel is most proper for abscesses in the year, the biyoduro mercury
in the indurations or concretions, and tubers, the mercuric chloride in refractory cases, the
cachectic state, corrosive ulceration, the vague rubicundeces extensive, the azoato of mercury in
the intertrigo, slag, living or soluble mercury in the non-syphilitic
arsenic before it and other drugs covered by that eruption, such as
graphite, the causticum and sumac, alternating with sulfur, is a powerful
means of resolution in induration of the skin and cellular tissue.

Even in conditions that are not reputable as syphilis, mercury and their preparations have
superior efficacy to the sepia and charcoal, in psoriasis, oil, graphite, sea ??salt, carbonate
of lime and oak, in eczema, the mercurial are useful in the treatment of ecthyma and crevices, to
a lesser degree than zinc, yours and throbbing, but bearing in mind that the club moss, graphite,
zinc and several other medications are indicated in these species
of skin lesions.

Mercury is often preferable to arsenic and belladonna in lupus, and enters as an essential element
in the treatment of elephantiasis and inflammation alba dolens. Some claim ringworm especially
after use of sulfur and carbonate of lime, the same is true of almost all diseases herpes in people
lymphatic and scrofulous or a weak constitution.

= E. = serous ailments, cachectic, anemic and scrofulous .-- victoriously are treated by mercury
many diseases, whether the expression of scrofulous cachexia, syphilitic and mercurial, and contribute
to developing the state of them. Regardless of the conditions as indicated already, we can mention:
1. º serous collections from the edema and swelling integuments of looking weak and pale skin and dirty
to the ascites. In all these cases, mercury can play in union with belladonna, arsenic and sulfur;
hydrocele in scrofulous, silica is very similar to mercury. Arthritic swellings, swollen and
pale, with internal pains and gastrose, mercury and often require
the machine.

2. º asthenic flows, stroke or mucous gland hypersecretion or trend to the destruction of tissues.
The subject of these flows and these secretions is wrong developed, the suppuration is ichorous
and bad character; the reverse is true in ulcers of recent syphilis when the vegetative sphere is not
yet altered. In all cases hypersecretion fiber is sluggish, fatigue and nervous breakdown of
liquids night sweats, diarrhea colliquative, lientería, otorrhea, leukorrhea, coryza with ozena,
slight swelling of the nose and periosteum, salivation, plenty of suppuration sanious ulcerated
surfaces and soft. Phosphorus, sulfur, quinine and calcium carbonate are sometimes as useful as mercury.

3.
º The prickly heat, the sweat of the feet, alopecia, falling or deformity
of the nails, sterility, seminal losses, albuminuria and a host of
conditions due to a cacoquimia, or to a functional perversion against
a background of fatigue and lack of plasticity.

4. º The conditions characterized by muscular tremor nervous asthenia, great weakness; the paralysis
that develop slowly, partial or general, with serosal infiltration to varying degrees, discoloration
of tissues, lack of natural heat, hobbies automatic chorea, and even the same epilepsy.

Mercury, in short, is one of the main drugs of scrofula, should not only in myocardial nodes and
subacute inflammations of the mucous membranes, but also in advanced
stage, if night sweats, colliquative flows, rapid emaciation, glands
infarcted or ulcerated, crusted rashes or itching, especially on the
scalp, dirty urine and abundant, easy and lienteric depositions, tympanitis,
rickets.

In these cases, the lower dose are the most effective, since their similarity leads to the
necessity attenuation of its extremity.

Electively mercury working in the lymphatic system and the plastic strength, it preferably in
the habitus leucoflegmásico and swelling of the skin, easy to colds and to sweat, but with one
condition, that the cases that require mercury, the but are separated from these organizational
arrangements, the more far from this drug and approach to their sales, from red to precipitate
mercuric chloride, and from the sulfur mercury to their iodides and azoatos. Mercury is also
desirable because of its effects on the alteration of nutrition in
the state venosidad and serous, the retardation of intellectual development
and vegetative physical weakness, but must resort to a its salts if
they join the dryness of the skin or surfaces and phenomena exhalants
of blood erethism.

Mercury also awakens medical receptivity when vegetative life is more particularly affected, and the plastic
fatigue and interference the innervation is opposed to any reaction.

The indications of mercury in the conditions just listed briefly, are characterized by some symptoms
that indicate their profound influence on the body as the following to complete the picture of his
action: cramps, spasms, great fatigue, great weakness, malaise, body and spirit, drowsiness, heartburn,
blood shaking member, heart lymph, mucosal swelling passive hemorrhage,
asthenic rubicundeces skin, passive flow, secretions, excessive, poorly
developed pus, phagedenic ulcers, edema, serous effusions, tissue
discoloration, yellowing of the skin, sweating easy excitability of
all organs, marasmus, aggravation of symptoms at night and the warmth
of bed, great sensitivity, and aggravation of the suffering to cold
air.

Whenever in the treatment of syphilis observe a set of symptoms such as: decay wet fungal ulcers, flabby,
asthenic, dissolution of blood, hesitation erosion of the teeth and gums, bad mouth, salivation,
tremors, fever Hectic, it is very likely to be a mercurial cachexia. Since then proceed to
provide an antidote, of which we say: 1. No sulfur, which is what corresponds best to symptoms of
fever erethism slow and suffering in the midst of the most serious.

Sulphurous mineral water held in this regard with great efficiency, not by neutralizing mercury
that may exist in the economy, but to combat the effects of medication and operating changes
in the vitality and tissues, especially in the mercury drop, joint swellings isolated incipient
paralysis tremors, flegmorragias. Mercury is to turn one of the best antidotes to the dynamic
effects of sulfur. The lime sulfur is also indicated in the mercurial cachexia, asthenia nervosa,
caries, scrofulous complications.

2. º whipped acid, at the lower dose, but rather appropriate, neutralizes the effects of mercury
and cure syphilitic aggravated or sustained by this medicine, as are adenoids and genital ulcers,
canker sores and corrosive or limp, myocardial inguinal glands, throat ulcers, gout military
violet spots on the skin or coppery looking dirty, otorrhea, ophthalmia, the ozena, cracks, herpes
hands, suspicious, livid pustules in the front and back, the excess
sensitivity of the scalp, alopecia.

3. No Gold whipped acid can replace a large number of these cases, but combat better yet cavities
of the bones of the skull, nose and face, the destruction of the soft palate, osteócopos pains, accidents
drop abnormal dyspepsia, palpitations, hydrothorax incipient jaundice and disorders of liver.

4.
º The machine, when it is rather the body and not a particular organ concerned, which radical
forces are altered, for example, in cachexia without special injury in slow fever with belly
and tympanitis decomposition in passive hemorrhages and edema of various organs. The dynamic
action of the machine is here as indicated, not dose need more than to revive the weak forces, turn the
tone to the fiber, excite vitality.

Quinine sulfate is sometimes a more appropriate preparation of quinine. Higher doses are preferable
in certain febrile effects of mercury and that take a type intermittent, or the latent form
of the fever, with a sensation of great laceration on the head or in any other part.

5. No other antidote Iodine is well indicated in mercurial salivation, in myocardial lymph and
ganglion developed by the influence of mercury, the silica is adapted to decay, to degenerate ulcers
that have resisted whipped acid, gold .... Opium is indicated in cases of prostration and to
assist or supplement the actions of the machine. The mezereum, the clematis and phosphoric
acid agree when the mercury has developed rashes; yours, the lycopodium, when vegetation is supported
by dose mercury, silver and other drugs as indicated, if the mercury vapor emissions or accidents have
been identified lame.

In the mercurial rebel conditions to the most appropriate medication,
there is sometimes more than the mercury that can heal itself.

A crowd of curious facts have been established for this and other drugs that infinitesimal
doses are more adequate to dissipate diathesis and dynamic effects of exaggerated dose.

= Dose .=-- exceding If it is important not the appropriate dose, to avoid the effects medicine so
often complicate the disease and affect unfavorably in their treatment, mercury is more than any
other drug.