 The vacuum as usually conceived, is an extension or space without a body,
is something contradictory as that body is to assume, therefore that extension means, and no
body, therefore it is supposed to removed.

Descartes simply accept the ultimate consequences of this doctrine. Thus, proposing the difficulty
Founded in which we imagine that God could remove all matter contained in a glass, staying
the same shape of the glass, answered firmly that this is impossible. "For we can, he says,
correcting an opinion so false, we see that there is no necessary link between the glass and
body that you full, but it is so absolutely necessary between concave glass figure, and the
extension must be included in this concavity, which there is more reluctance to conceive a mountain
without a valley, that such an extension without the concavity it contains, and this extension
without any extended thing, because it's nothing, as has been observed many times, can not
have extension. For which reason, if we are asked What would happen if God removed the whole
body is in a glass, without allowing enter another answer to the sides of this vessel would
be found so close, that would play immediately. For two bodies must touch when there is nothing
between them, it would be contradiction in these two bodies were apart, ie have distance from
each other, and that this distance was not anything. Distance is a extension property that
can not exist without the extension "(Princ. of Filos. p. 2. ยง 18).

[56.] If cinemas Descartes argued that space, because it contains real distances can not be a pure
nothing, its reasoning would seem conclusive, but when he adds that the space is the body, for
the reason that space extension and the extension is the essence the body, seat does not prove a thing.
They do not conceive or imagine body without extension, only follows that the extension is a property
of the body, without which we will not conceive, but not that is its essence. To be sure of
this, it would be necessary as we have the idea of ??extension, the body we had also to see if among
them are identity. But the bodies we know nothing but what we experienced through the senses,
without being there been given to penetrate the intimate nature.

Where does the inseparability of the extension and body ideas? Born from the idea that body we
have is a confused idea, as conceived as a substance that is a relationship with us, and because
the impressions we call sensations. And as we have shown above, the basis of feelings is the extension,
this is the only conduit through which we put ourselves in relation to the body. When this
base we need, because without it, we have no body but a general idea of ??being, or of substance,
not anything that characterizes and distinguishes him from the rest. All these things are in the order
of our ideas, but we can not infer that the bodies themselves did
not actually nothing more than extension.

[57.] With the same reasoning is destroyed the opinion of the infinite or indefinite extension.
Descartes unwrapping his doctrine on the idea of ??extension, said: "We will know too this world, or
the extended matter that makes up the universe has no limits: because where we propose to pretend
they want, we can imagine further, spaces indefinitely extended, not only imagine, but we conceive
to be such in fact as we imagine; of luck containing an extensive
body indefinitely, because the idea of ??extension which we conceive
in all space, is the true idea that we have the body "(ib. p. 2.

ยง 21).

In this passage, but the error on the essence of bodies, there is free transit of a purely ideal,
or rather imaginary, to a real order. It is true that wherever I imagine the limits of the universe
as an immense dome, denying, still imagine outside the dome new wastes of space that my fantasy
is submerged, but this infer that the reality is as I imagine, does
not seem very tight to the rules of sound logic