 I am going to get along with those poor things .... What will become
of them without me!

"

Soon came to the other house, where he so eagerly awaited. Was on the street Moon, good-looking
building, which housed the main to an aristocrat, more above low-income families, and a swarm
of poor roof. Torquemada down the hall dark looking for a door.

The numbers they were useless, because not seen.

Luck Isidora was that he felt the steps and opened.

"Ah! men living word. Spend, spend. "

D. found himself Francisco within a room whose sloping roof touched the floor for the contrary
to the door above, a ventanón with some of their windows broken, covered with rags and papers,
the floor, tile, covered in parts of pieces of carpet, with a trunk side open, two chairs,
a portable stove with fire, to another, a bed, on which, among blankets and different clothes,
half-dressed and half warm, lay a man about thirty years old, handsome, pointed beard, big eyes,
beautiful face, gaunt cheekbones and slightly ON; in temples green
depression and transparent as ears wax devotees who are hung on the
altar.

Torquemada looked at him without answering the greeting and I thought thus: "The poor are more consumptive
than Traviata. Too bad boy!

As well as painter and bad head ... Could have much money! ".

- You see, D. Francisco, how I am ... this catarrazo I do not want
to leave.

Sit .... How much I appreciate your kindness!

- Do not thank me .... Well, no more missing.

Is not God commands us to dress the sick, give drink to the sad, bare visit? ... Ay! blunderbuss
everything. What a head! ... Said to alleviate the misery that we are soft-hearted men ...
yes, sir. "

Looked at the walls of dormers, covered largely by numerous studies of landscapes, some with the
heavens, nailed to the wall or leaning against it.

"Beautiful things are still around.

- For release constipated, I shall take the field - said the patient, his eyes lit by fever .--
I have an idea, what an idea! ... I think I'll get good eight to ten days if you me succor, D.
Francisco, and then to the field, the field ....

- The cemetery is where you go prontito - Torquemada thought, and
then aloud: - Yes, that is a matter of eight or ten days ... nothing
more .... Then you come out there ... in a car .... Do you know that
the attic is Fresquecito?

... Caramba! Let me wrapped in the cloak.

- Then you will be amazed - he said .-- Here the patient sitting up
because I have something better. The last days we spent in the studio
... I tell them that you Isidora ... I was terrible; like we were
scared, and ... "

We came so strong fit of coughing, which seemed
to be drowning. Isidora came to incorporating lifting pillows. His
eyes seemed unhappy to be jumped, their lungs waste Men swarmed like
bellows laboriously broken they can not expel or suck air, twitched
fingers, leaving the end prostrate and lifeless. Isidora he wiped
sweat from his forehead put in order the clothes from both sides of
the narrow bed he fell, and gave him a soothing drink.

"But what
I took so awful astonishment exclaimed the artist !...-- recover access.

-
Speak as little as possible - Isidora advised.

- I shall take it
to D. Francisco: you will see how we managed