 

"That night I went home game simulated mysteriously. I slid down the stairs up too late. I have
the keys, and opened, I went and hid in my room. Had not yet become them of the party they go every
night, which is also the man who kills me. The get heard, I heard them laughing, celebrating
man's jokes. To distract the penalties for my absence might be supposed that I had my wife, he
had been more talkative and humorous than usual.

"I had to wait quiet to lie down and wait even for that Beatrice fell asleep. During some time there
was some energy in me that now I shudder. I thought about killing Beatriz stabbed to death
while he slept.

"I assure you that I entered her bedroom with this tremendous purpose. Laugh now. It is very
funny, is funny what you'll say. I do not use weapons, I have only one who brought me gumi
This officer friend, who was of those who came in Tetouan. With that
I wanted gumi kill.

I took her naked in his right hand in his left hand bore the candlestick.

"Without me in any mirror, I saw me in my imagination, and I gave me creeps, not criminal, but
grotesque.

Chiquituelo So, so ugly, so valetudinarian and so sickly; clerk of last class ... What right
had I to the great passions? I was Othello of farce.

"I was holding my breath ... tiptoed ... full of fear that my wife woke up. It seemed that if
you woke up and saw me going to laugh.

"So I reached it. She did not wake. Sleeping with mouth open, showing white teeth and equal.
What freshness and what carmine in their wet lips! What lashes together! What a gentle smile!
What a serene! If Desdemona had been As Beatrice, Othello would not have been killed. I realized
then that might not fit monstrosity in such a barbaric human being to be. My anger gave way
to emotion. A flood of tears bathed my cheeks. Gumi I put on the table at night. I put it there with
very cautiously and shaking that woke my wife. I looked at Beatrice. I looked like who looks
at the treasure that has been lost. All your worth, all its beauty, all spell flashed his
before my eyes brighter than ever.

What sweet bastard, what love without honor and without shame, what affection villain poisoned
me at that moment the heart and ran through my veins to my perverse
blood?

This is wiped my tears, got his head slowly and gently and without barely touching his lips, kissed
her rosy cheeks.

"Fortunately I was in the reaction. Received the outrage offered to
my spirit.

I filled with shame. I was ashamed, I was disgusted by my weakness.

"The idea of ??killing Beatriz again asked me undecided will. I grabbed the iron again. Again
stepped back frightened.

"I fled the room, fled from the house like a thief.

I opened both doors with the keys had saved, then carefully closed. I found myself in the street.

»What
to do? I looked ridiculous.

He could not suffer. In the middle of the street gave me a seizure of nervous laughter. If
someone had heard me take me for crazy.

"Lots of thoughts found, and all very sad, crossed my mind went and returned with cruel persistence.

"For
a brief moment imagine still insisted that it could be slander anonymous accusations, but soon
ran away from me this idea comforting. It alone has not returned.
"What was the crisis solution that was me? Did I had to kill my wife?
Does I had to kill her lover?

"No, it was not weakness of mine: I
was in the mood to kill someone who had been at that point to steal
my watch or the few actual carrying in his pocket, but perhaps a moral
perversion, I could not consider me a thief who stole the joy, love
my wife and the honor of my house clean. The watch and money are my
property, no free will, not the thief go and leave me because I prefer,
while Beatrice was with another and left me because she preferred.
He did well to take it. Why had I to kill him for this