 A simple gored, and disappeared. But at the same moment, a ferocious roar distracted
attention from some red bull and passed before his eyes like a flame of fire.

It was Gallardo, who had thrown down the horse, leaving the pole to
catch the coat bearing on the pommel of the saddle.

- Uh!

... Sign!

The bull came in, ran after the red lining of his jacket, attracted by this worthy opponent him, and turned
his back room to the figure of a black skirt and purple body, in
stupefaction the danger, the spear was still under his arm.

- Do
not be mieo, Dona Zol: it is already mine - said the bullfighter,
still pale with emotion, but smiling, sure of his skill.

With little defense other than the jacket, he fought the beast, away from the lady and getting
rid of their furious rush with graceful trills.

The crowd, forgetting the recent scare began to applaud enthusiastically.

What happiness! Attending a simple harassment and find a run almost formal, seeing bullfight
Gallardo free.

The bullfighter, emboldened by the momentum with which he attacked
the beast, forgot to Dona Sol and all, attentive only to dodge their
attacks.

Stirred angry bull, seeing the invulnerable man slipped between his horns, and come down on him,
being always display red jacket.

Finally ended up getting tired, being motionless, his mouth drooling
and head down, trembling on his legs, and then Gallardo abused the
astonishment of the beast, taking off calanes and playing with him
his neck.

A huge howl rose behind the fence waving this feat.

Shouts and bells rang at the back of Gallardo, and appeared around the beast Cowboys and halters,
wrap that eventually, slowly into the thick of cattle.

Gallardo went in search of his horse, which had not moved, accustomed to contact with the bulls.
He picked up the pole, mounted, and with gentle gallop went to the
fence, extending this slow the loud applause of the crowd.

Riders who had gathered to Dona Sol greeted with great enthusiasm samples sword. The manager
winked, speaking mysteriously
- Gacha, tin has no weight. Okay, really well! Now I tell you to
take her.

Outside the fence, in a landau of the daughters of the
marquis, was Dona Sol its cousins around distressed, hands, we want
to find something broken in your body by the fall. The rods gave chamomile
to pass you the scare, and she smiled with air superiority, accepting
these extreme feminine compassion