 More than half a cabinet post, men in separate post zebras, came to Once the capital of the
Kingdom with offices for as many cuts, inviting all the princes to come and claim the hand of the Princess,
which had to choose among them he likes.

The fame of his wonderful beauty had gone and the whole world, so that, just mails were arriving
at different cuts, there was no prince, and for little ruin it was, decided not to go to the
capital of King Ventures, to compete on fair, tournaments and exercises of genius by the hand of
the princess. Each asked his father King arms horses, his blessing and some money, which in
front of a brilliant retinue, the put on the road.

Was to see how they arrived at the court of the Princess all these high lords. Were see soirees
that were then in the royal palaces. They were admired, finally, enigmas that the princes
were proposed to show the respective acuity, the verses they wrote; giving the serenades, the fighting
arc, boxing and wrestling, and racing carts and horses, which sought to come out on top each
other and gain Love alleged girlfriend.

But this, that despite his modesty and discretion, was endowed, could not help, of a surly nature,
fastidious and loveless, princes overwhelmed with contempt and none of them cared a jot. Its
coldness seemed discretions, nonsense its enigmas, its performance arrogance and vanity or greed
of wealth you love showed. Scarcely deigned to look chivalrous exercises, or hear their serenades,
or smile grateful for his love poems. The magnificent gift, which each had brought from land, were
cornered in a housetop of the royal palace.

The indifference of Princess ice age for all claimants. Only one, the son the Khan of Tartary,
had managed to escape from their indifference to incur their hate. This Prince suffered from
a sublime ugliness. His eyes were slanted, cheeks and chin outgoing tangled curly hair, chubby little
body, even of titanic strength, and restless genius, mocker and proud. Not the most innocuous
were free of teasing, being the main target of including the Minister of Foreign Affairs of King
Ventures in severity, limited intelligence and dignity, as well as obnoxiously who spoke Sanskrit,
diplomatic language then lend something to ridicule and jokes.

So things were going, and the court celebrations were brighter every day. Princes, however, despaired
of not being loved, the Fortunate King raging when her daughter had not decided, and it continued
erre que erre in ignoring anyone, except Tartar Prince, who taunts and declared their abhorrence
of revenge with interest the famous minister of his father.

II

Now it happened that the Princess, on a beautiful spring morning,
was on her dresser.

The favorite girl combing her golden hair long and sweetest.