 Without your love, the world will be a desert for me, life, loneliness fearful;
my heart, an emptiness that is filled with nothing.

"The human soul needs love, worship, believe. Heaven has punished
the pride of my soul.

Have been thrown her idols, altars, all worthy of adoration and love. In contrast, I put my worship,
my love, my faith and hope in Beatrice. She was ... my idolatry.

"The love of the unbeliever is immense. The unbeliever devoted to a negligible object full force
of love that seeks to elevate the believer to the divine ideal.

"Well, why tired? I wandered like a meek beast that has stuck in his chest a poisoned dart. At
night I wandered, the day I've been blind. I have shame that people I see. It seems to me that everyone
knows the teasing that I am a victim, my patience, my love bad paid, and will laugh at me or
going to spit in the face.

"Last night was my last resort to ridicule.

"I do not doubt.

I walked around my house, and close to four o'clock I saw a man coming
out ... mysteriously ... there.

I have eagle-eyed ... I saw him ... he was. I carried a revolver
in his pocket.

Why? If he had fired six shots you have, none would have given my enemy. I do not shoot, and
I also shook his hand. All I was convulsive.

"Also, why not confess? I think I would not be able to kill him, but finding him asleep and could
put at close range the gun barrel in his temples.

"I do not understand now but one thing. I can not bear my inexhaustible love. I can not bear the ridiculous
that I noticed. To the poetry of great pain can not draw on me because I laugh myself from my pain
and I find him funny.

"I have no other recourse, if I die no good, they look way to die soon.

"Forgive this long relief. Sorry this neat card. Be the last. Goodbye. "

Paco Ramírez was a man of some clear illustration and understanding, but he still had healthier
than clear, he was as healthy as his body was that of an athlete. Loved Paco Don Braulio, though
who else had ever thrown up ready for a shift of that had ways of
thinking that he described as tortuous and that it should be subjected
to the most convoluted and unique feelings.

Just read the letter, believed that Braulio was crazy.

I could not believe the lack of Dona Beatriz: very good opinion of her. Imagined the extent that
the person who walked jealous Braulio was the Count, who Beatriz spoke in his letter. Would
be like, Paco feared a catastrophe. Braulio thought that, or he would die, or was about to
kill, or would be Leganés. To avoid this, if it was time, he immediately en route to Madrid. Braulio
had given no sign, but he would find. If you did not come to save him, would avenge him. Paco
was with no metaphysical or discreteos. No thought or treason or murder in duels of every ceremony.
Only thought to get the love and the soul of Condesito of her lively
body punches and kicks.

With such good intentions, also anxious to see his Inesita, and hoping
to woo and fetch the scene, thirty-two hours is not sane to have received
and read lamentable letter from her desperate friend, Paco came to
this heroic and crowned villa, and without shake even the dust of
the road, after leaving the valise in a guest house and installed,
taking fourth in her, she went to the home of two beautiful sisters.

XX

As she Paco Ramírez to that household but hurriedly, offered to imagination
more vividly the difficulties of the interview should have.

In the letter from Don Braulio paragraphs remembered more sinister
and ominous, and provided some Unfortunately.

So he had noticed a contradiction in the letter that gave him so much suspect. Don Braulio
confessed at first, as was true that never used or had weapons, and
towards the end of the letter spoke of a revolver in his pocket.

Paco Ramírez Don Braulio was clear that he had bought or acquired
in those days, after the night he was in hiding at home.

Why the acquisition? What did make his hapless friend?

Paco was sure that Don Braulio not kill nor his wife nor his rival, but was afraid of attempting
his own life, and thought to avenge killing Condesito.

Paco was so strong, so calm, and was so confident that nothing seemed
easier.

As Dona Beatriz, Paco loved her like a sister and respected as a superior
being, where, but believe you are afflicted much blamed, as we believed
it was ready to forgive the guilt.

At this point understood and applauded and even blessed the weakness
or Don Braulio tenderness.

What is not explained is that Don Braulio not try to revenge Condesito
of any way to be.

In the meantime, what would he do, what to say at Dona Beatriz? After reflection, form various plans
and mentally composing several speeches, he determined to be guided by the inspiration of the
moment and improvise everything.

So it came to Don Braulio. He climbed the stairs two by two and pulled
the cord of bell.

It was nine o'clock.

Then they opened, with that frankness and readiness with which the
poor are usually open.

Barely had time to see who would open. It was found wrapped around her arms clasped him and
overwhelmed by a mouth covered her face with a flood of sound kisses.

- Good God, man! "- Said after the housekeeper Teresa, who was kissed -. How has embarnecido
in these three years!

Give glory to see you: you made a real boy. But tell me, and Don Braulio? Does it come with
you? What have you done on site? Why not write? Beatriz is the heart in her mouth.

- I want to see. "I can see it? - Paco said.

- Right now. Sign. Do you bring news of Don Braulio?

- Yes.

- Well, come.

- Is Agnes with her sister?

- Inés not up yet.

- Best - Paco said -.

I need to see Beatriz alone - added between his teeth.

Before the end of muttering the phrase, before I entered the sitting
room of Dona Beatriz, it appeared in the lobby, and friendly and tightly
grasping the hands of Paco between over and said:

- What is this?

What Braulio? Where? How can you not come? I am feeling very uneasy.

What happens, God?

What happens?

So saying, both came into the room. He loves Teresa went after them.

- Let us, Teresa.

Then will come.

I have to talk to Beatrice - Paco said.

This mystery seemed to increase the shock of the pretty girl.

He loves Teresa left the room grumbling.

Paco and Betty alone and said this:

- What mysteries are yours?

What do you say? Speech. Anything is better than the anxiety, that doubt that I have. My bad
not horrible, my misfortune will not be deeper actually what I pretend
and fantasy.

Speech. Where is my husband? What did it?

Why not come in your company?

- Your husband has gone to the scene. Evil can come with me.

Your husband has left Madrid. Here it is. Here I come to fetch him.

- It is impossible. Braulio never lies. Braulio said he was going to see. We will have occurred
some misfortune on the road. Be sick, dead, perhaps in some people's way. Braulio was to see. Braulio
not deceived me.

Paco Ramirez, who was not a man much given to circumlocution and rodeos, and also thought it
was urgent and essential to a prompt explanation, then said:

- Braulio has deceived you because you thought you fooled.

- No way - said Beatriz, red blood rising to her cheeks -. Who has invented this infamy? Who
said this madness?

- The same Braulio.

- How? When? Where you've seen?

- I have not seen. I received a letter from him.

- Give it to me. I read it.

- Will you have courage to read it?

- God give me courage for all. You give me the letter.

Paco still hesitated.

- Give me the letter - again said Beatriz.

- You shall - Paco said - but before I demand of you one thing.

-
Say, calls soon.

- You will respond honestly to what you ask, you
will declare the naked truth: not as if in answer to your brother,
but as if in answer to your own conscience as if you were in the court
of the Lord and He who will be questioned.

- Question.

Not aside. Do not stain my lips lies.

- Do you love Braulio?

- With all my heart.

- Braulio you ugly and beautiful. Braulio is old ... Do you love love?

- Braulio's soul is beautiful, the soul is immortal Braulio young. Yes, I love him love.

- Have you ever loved another man?

- Never.

- Look carefully at the bottom of your soul. Beatrice, have you ever loved another man?

- Just understand what I want to say, but not to stay a qualm. I to peer into the deepest abyss
of my mind, I will look there and make my patent most hidden thoughts, ideas vague and confusing
that I did not realize until I now.

- Say, Beatrice.

- I say I never loved but to love my husband I do not think having failed once, or with the
most fleeting thought, or the more ephemeral desire bastard.

- Is it true what you say? Do not you accuse the consciousness of the child missing?

- How do I declare impeccable? Paco, yes, conscience accuses me, but it haunts me; give me the
letter, we end. What interrogation! What a cruel delay! Have you come to kill me?

- No, Beatriz.

Tell me, however, what you are accused of consciousness?

- I'm vain, I admit. Now that I sense a misfortune, I see it is sin that I I did not think it
was.

I examine myself, I judge and condemn me. Look, Paco: I have believed a man I loved, and though
not paid for his love, I was pleased and proud that I love me. His love was in such a way restrained
by the respect that was never in words. I guess, did not see him. And I guess, not passion
itself had the lowest impurity but as ethereal feeling, immaculate, that is not love, nor
friendship, which should not be name, which is unspeakable in every language on earth, that
if you name must be in sky. What? Vanity of women.

Novels ridiculous that we forged in the imagination and certainly have no reality whatsoever. The
man who obeys me well, the man and me seen and admired, is the wisest,
the most elegant of the aristocracy of Madrid, is held for their gracious
presence, her grace, courage and even their sexual conquests.

Seeing him so exhausted me, seeing what he delighted in hearing me
talk, which celebrated my talent, which is struggling to please me
and because I had it the best concept, not deny it, my wife was very
proud of flattered.

I judged worth more, when he had inspired affection noble man.

My own vanity I moved my turn to be a concept, perhaps exaggerated,
of all his personal belongings.

The man, who also, in my opinion, I understand, was worth much more to my eyes. Gratitude to
this man in my moments of modesty, when I thought I owed it all to
my own merit, filled my heart.

Never, however, I have loved. Every night for months, talked to him
more than hours in a low voice.

Praises me, I said a thousand polite returns, but I love talking. Among he and I are tacitly these
extraordinary relationships.

Is this sin? Ah! I think yes. Now I think so. Heart tells me. Braulio is jealous. But, my God,
why did not I tell you?

Why has not complained?

I would have apologized.

I would have thousand times that she loved him. I have renewed my
vows.

I would have been terminated the insane poetry, dream story that
only satisfy my vanity.

But no: Braulio right, Braulio is delicate.

A husband should not be jealous. Should not tell his wife that suspected. It would be an indignity,
a shame he can not.

And I, stupid, blind, I have not until now understood the danger
and absurdity of my behavior.

Who knows? Maybe slanderers have understood everything in the worst way. Maybe you have besmirched
my honor and my husband's. Maybe you have had within the accuse cruelty.

Come on, Paco, you know everything.

Do not kill me. Give me the letter. Pronto! Give me the letter.

Paco, without a word, not knowing what to think of everything, not
daring to believe Beatriz lied, failed to explain how they lied so
well, and remembering, however, that the letter was evidence Braulio
almost obvious that Beatrice was guilty, he gave Finally the letter.

Beatriz unfolded it eagerly, and did not read it, devoured it.

Do not interrupted the reading, not with a sigh, nor a cry nor a complaint.

It put alternately red and pale. Prevailed after deathly pallor. Big tears sprang from the
beautiful black eyes of Beatrice and slid down her cheeks.

The silence was complete. You could count the violent beating of the heart of Beatrice and Paco
heart.

Another woman, guilty or not guilty, had pretended to faint, had fainted
in earnest or done ends with tears, with groans and cries even with
maybe.

Beatriz, read the letter, known and all the misfortune of her husband
and his, if that her husband felt, contained all vehement explosion
of pain, and Paco told this way:

- I acknowledge my offense.

I deny my foolish conceit, my desire to look, my desire light to
be admired, but not enough to explain all this misery.

I am a victim an infernal plot, a series of fatal coincidences. Who
knows, God?

Who knows?

But it is very hard, it's awful, is cruel punishment that falls on
my head.

Why did not kill me? Why did he have mercy on me? I had awakened to feel hurt. I have forgiven.
What do I say ... I have forgiven?

I would have apologized and have been happy to die in his arms. How I love! This love itself
is worth. In this love itself I have encryption you should always my pride. Why do I have
neglected to lose perhaps I fainted, mad, giddy for a paltry vanity?

And he kissed me while I slept instead of killing me, like I really
deserved.

He came to stab me and gave me kisses of love, and wept with tenderness, and found me I looked
beautiful and ecstatic. Paco, brother mine, run, go to the Ministry, is everywhere, seek him, tell
him I love him, bring him to my live arms, give it back to forgive me. What will I do, my
Jesus?

What shall I do? I'm about to leave to pick myself crazy.

I only fear that stops are over the scandal and shame. Brother, for pity's sake, run, looking
for Braulio. I fear, I tremble for his life.

What horror!

The death has not given me: he kissed me, believing himself mortally
offended.

And in return so much love, I'll kill him.

Paco was dumb, ecstatic, full of wonder, his mouth open, not knowing what to think or what to
say.

Beatrice, with more agitation, upset, impatient with the immobility
of Paco, continued to thus:

- Do not stop: flies, looking for Braulio.

It'll kill you if you take too. Tell him I love him soon, idolize you, that your kiss is worth more
than all the satisfaction and pride, that his love I love, that divine
beauty of his soul for me to go beyond the beauty of the other God's
creatures.

That I will see her again, heavens! That I throw at her feet and ask forgiveness a thousand
times! That I will pay the kiss he gave me sleeping, blowing my soul infusing into his with
an everlasting kiss ... infinite!

Beatriz While he spoke, Paco was pushing out of the parlor, he was throwing to shove of the house.

Already in the anteroom, Beatriz said:

- Go to the Ministry, go to the police, Braulio seeks by all means, do not stop.

Paco came at the end of his tongue, and replied:

- Be still, Beatriz,
I find.

Soon I'll be back here.

Never doubt that I will bring me. Have faith in the goodness of God.

That said, opened the door, left the room and rushed down the stairs.

Doña Beatriz hesitating and stumbling back to the room.

He could no longer stand. Sank down on the couch.

After a moment of quiet and silence, broke into sobs and moans and
poured a sea tears.

Then came the love Teresa.

- What ails you, child?

Why are you crying?

- Let me, love, let me - replied Dona Beatriz -. I am the most unfortunate of women.

He loves Teresa insisted in vain on the same or similar questions.

Beatrice did not answer but asking him to leave her.
Tired, then, and even a little bite of that secrecy with which it
is demure Beatrix, Teresa loves left the room and went to bed and
Ines.

- Girls - said - do not you wake up today?

Ines, still half
asleep, but was open and the wood of the window, and sun flooded his
room, sat up a little and answered:

- Well, what time is it?

- The
nine and a half, about ten o'clock. Is plenty of time to get up. It
is also necessary to get up. Big news. Paco Ramírez has come.

- With
my brother? - Asked Agnes.

- Without your brother - said the housekeeper.

-
Where is? Have you stayed in place? Why not come?

- I do not know.
Just know that your sister is crying as I have never seen mourn. It
has certainly some great misfortune. Beatrice wanted to tell me anything,
but something very serious happens and pitiful. Get up, daughter.
Go to console your sister and know the cause of your pain.

Inesita
jumped out of bed full of fright. He put on a gown, without considering
more carefully, by precipitation, and ran into the parlor, where Beatrice
was.

XXI

- What are you, sister? Why are you crying? - Asked Inesita
fondly just entered the parlor and saw so distraught Beatrice.

As
Beatrice and he told her not continue crying, Inesita bent over the
couch where Beatriz was sealed and returned to ask the same questions,
along with kisses and caresses.

Beatriz could no longer resist, was
also a need to unburden his heart, and joining Agnes taking her hand,
said with a sigh:

- What I'm miserable, Ines!

- What? - Broke it.

-
That's my fault Braulio is jealous and has left home and may not return.

-
And who is jealous?

- Is jealous of the Count of Alhedín.

- What
a blunder! - Said Ines -. Why, do not see clearly that the Count is
not for you but than mere friendship?

- That's not - candidly said
Beatrice, which, amid all Don Braulio loving, full startle him, and
repented of his intimacy with the Count could not settle the Count
was not in love with her.

- That does not, I think the Count loves
me, but I have never ever loved.

- Unique idea of ??Conde you, sister.
Believe me, men like him do not love without being loved. The Count
makes you different, you can see, you is cute and nice and quiet,
so speak to you. Since it is very gallantly, you two hundred thousand
compliments, but there is a distance love infinite.

- Who says you
have not saved it that far? - Asked Beatrice.

- Nobody says it to
me - said Agnes - but I guess. In any case, it is best not love you.
Have you ever you love him?

- No.

- Well then, what the victim wanted?

-
I did not want ... or did not love ... here was not what I wanted,
but what was. The Count was a regular with me, and I confess, I delighted
in their attentions. Did not love him, but felt a satisfaction of
self-esteem to believe me loved by him. This me lost.

- Come on,
sister, relax. No one is lost for so little. If your husband is jealous,
with explain that there is no reason to have them, you're all finished.

-
And how do I explain? Where can I see him? Have I not said that it
was and never come back? Perhaps be killed.

- Such things tell me
that you begin to put in care, although I am not of those who drown
in a little water. Braulio is suspicious and captious; Braulio adores
you; Braulio's self, in the depths of the soul, the estimate should
be noble, but their outer garments no good idea. His modesty at this
point beyond the limits of humility and ray distrust. Although I love,
but has always believed in your love, generally unfavorable opinion
for women, believes that luxury, brilliance, elegance and high position
dazzle us.

- And do not think evil. I have been amazed, not to stop
loving Braulio and love another, but to indulge in another love without
paying.

- Look, sister, is not time for recriminations. If you've
done wrong please you in this course love, and repentance is late
and sterile. Seek cure for your light. Have you been Paco Braulio
looking for?

- Has gone.

- And the Count? The Count is also necessary
to look. The Count can and should explain all, and finished business.

-
What is it that the Earl has to explain?

- That respects you, who
loves you, who delights in talking with you, but you do not loves
to love, nor ever thought of it.

- And do not lie to say that Count?

-
No, sister, it's time declarártelo all -. Here, Ines, despite his
calm, several times we have qualified Olympic blushed as scarlet -.
It is time declarártelo all - repeat -; the Count has sex with me.

These
words fell and exploded like a bomb into the heart of Beatrice. Bad
and ugly was to have hurt the soul of Don Braulio for the satisfaction
of being idolized, she said assumed, but it was worse and more horrible
to have caused the tragedy by a vanity without foundation; have mistaken
it for herself, creating her fantasy adoration and love that were
for another woman and not for her.

Beatriz bit his lip in shame and
indignation. He paused for a moment, but the words came to his mouth
struggling to get out and could not help but exclaim out:

- You have
been cruel and have been treacherous! He served as a screen. You've
made me white of slander. You have taken Madrid so that every slander
me, my husband receives anonymous betrayed, and maybe die in pain
or be killed. You must be satisfied of your work.

- God knows - Agnes
said - it hurts in the soul of everything that's wrong, but neither
the Count I have no guilt