 

Republic under the name of Bolivar (Bolivia later), constituted by a General Assembly, declaring
independence in the provinces of Upper Peru to July 10 the same year 1825 and entrusted the executive
authority Libertador around the time of stay in the territory of the State, and Sucre is charged
with the immediate command of the that departments that had been divided. Three months is not
complete, that is, 6 October, after having instructed the Liberator, which formed a political
constitution for the country, disbanded the Assembly, postponing the constitutional body reunion,
reunion which was to be held on May 25 of next year.

Despite the efforts made by supporters of independence, General Rodil, refugee in Callao, held
for over a year this place, finally surrendered on 23 January 1826, the day that Peru, as
a result of this event was totally emancipated from Spain and South America saw the completion
of the long and bloody struggle started and carried to a successful conclusion by the brave sons
of Venezuela, under the direction glorious the celebrated Bolivar.

But the Colombian people, like all people placed in analogous circumstances While yielding to a natural
impulse, had displayed all his strength to throw off the yoke of slavery, not even willing to
receive the new form of government, unenlightened to find ways to take advantage of the freedom
they had conquered, and not understanding the value of the duties to acquire new rights acquired,
soon became involved in civil strife not willingly given them. Resisting the Caracas the third
invitation made by Paez, who wanted to implement the decree on the organization militia, was
the chief forced to do some prisons, and on that occasion Caracas presented 17 days prior to the seizure
of Callao the image of a terrible revolution.

Pretext of having been trampled people's rights in the way of implementing government decrees,
the House of Representatives Paez fulminated against an accusation, March 30 in the Senate admitted,
suspended from his job and to realize quoting of their behavior. Disobeyed the order not only
transmitted by the executive, but that provision of the Municipal Assembly of Valencia, whose
city was Paez then April 30, retook the Senate that he had separated, resulting in the fact to believe
all people are entitled to ignore the legitimate government, and soon Republic was embroiled
in civil strife.

There were two sides who were raised: one federal and one central, with supporters first system
who marched to an end with more unity, more perfect harmony. The Federalists stirred Paez Caracas
to convene and chair an Assembly general in order to determine the political destiny of Venezuela
in the circumstances, and verified the reunion on November 7, after violent debates and an
unspeakable vote, Paez is authorized, pursuant to the powers that the Assembly had invested, pointing
issued a decree on December 10 for the reunion of polling stations and the installation of fixed
Valencia constituent body as day of January 1827.

Bolivar, news of the scandals promoted in Venezuela, departed from Lima on September 4 and forty
days later went into Santa Fe de Bogota, and was received with general samples affection. On November
25, headed to Venezuela and during his journey to Cucuta was massing troops to perform with
impressive attitude. On 16 the following month gave a proclamation from Maracaibo that, offering
high speed National Convention to legally people had the basic laws, he said: only the (people)
know her well and is owner their fate, not a powerful nor a party, not a single fraction from
the same village. The Liberator which returned some of the patricians lost, I arrive at Puerto-Cabello
Choir last day of the year, a time when Paez was in Valencia.

The events of Peru as the course of the year that were expiring so: the reunion Bolivia's Constituent
Congress, which accepted the draft Thin variants that Bolivar had sent, accompanied by the
recognition of that republic by the Council Peru's government, the appointment of General Sucre
as Life President of the State dignity that only admitted for two years, the declaration of
nullity of the powers conferred by schools in some provinces to their representatives, made
by the Governing Council Peruvian Congress in its first constitutional dissolution of this, the
school reunion election in the province of Lima, by decree of the competent authority, 16 August,
the acceptance that it made the Bolivian Constitution as fundamental Code Peru, and Bolivar's
appointment to president in perpetuity of the Republic, acts punishable by the Governing Council,
in view of unanimity had simply to have polling stations proceeded in all its agreements.

CHAPTER XII

Conciliatory provisions .-- Bolivar and Paez reconcile political failure .-- .-- Claims New-Granada
and Peru .-- Resignation of the Liberator to the fifth Congress meeting in Bogota .-- No his resignation
is accepted .-- factions are raised in Venezuela .-- The Constituent Congress Peru .-- political
unrest and disunity of Colombia. - Fail the Convention of Ocana Act .-- June 15, 1828. - Conspiracy
to armed .-- .-- Hazard Libertador Justice Act against the conspirators .-- New convening a Constituent
Congress .-- spade work of the discontented .-- Bolivar Manifesto .-- .-- Consequences of the
manifest is called the Libertador by some members of Congress of Colombia .-- .-- Punishment
of the Political Code Cessation of the dictatorship and the representation of Colombia .-- Journey
to Cartagena Bolivar .-- Decrees Paez .-- Congress in Valencia Installing New Constitution of Venezuela
.-- Death .-- del Libertador.

The year 1827 was opened by the Libertador in a manner and conciliatory policy. The first day one
from Puerto Cabello post an amnesty decree, thus confirming the authority Paez of civil and military
chief at the beginning of the revolution had been given by councils municipal. This dictated the following
other decree by which he recognized and sent acknowledge Bolivar as President of the Republic,
at the same time canceling all its previous resolutions, including that of reunion of a Congress. 4, at
two in the afternoon, both leaders had been and embraced at the foot of the hill Naguanagua, and
fit together in Valencia amid the acclamations enthusiastic people, and 10 of the same month across
Caracas melted in terms of greatest admiration to host on its campus to its illustrious son,
the liberator of America del Sud

The excessive love of this great man for the cause he had so nobly defended constant, strong desire
to consolidate it shook his great work, I made a mistake, excusable this point of view. But? Who
felt that felt like, who he saw that as as rebels surrounded circumstances when looked just the
first dawn of freedom of his country, who found that as the threat of being wrapped in the
shadows of a devastating storm at the moment of birth, had not tried to avoid at all coast of
the sad consequences that would result from disunion among the political elements which were
to be so strongly supported? This was no doubt what he did flatter the dissidents, which forced
him to put his unbridled ambition and desire to control, producing among his friends discontent
and envy. iAmigos! ... iQue pitiful abuse has been made This beautiful phrase, used without
reason rather than to be followers of those men who and Bolivar, come to have in their hands
the destiny of a nation!

In New Granada, as well as in Peru, many representations they directed the military failing
government reforms in the primitive law of the State, and, after so many great sacrifices,
after so much bloodshed and so precious for the sake of country, narrow interests, selfish view
domain, envy and resentment wrong tablets Tempers flare and ranks first in the most unjust war
the human race is between iniquity of the war itself, which the genius of evil awakens and
keeps the heart than you should join the fraternal bond of custom, language, country and family.
So, unfortunately, the triumph of independence was followed by the civil strife in America del Sud,
bitter and overwrought by measures whose spirit, whose purpose was none other than conciliation,
the welfare and strength. But man proposes and God disposes.

To the fifth congress, held in Bogota, Bolivar resigned his position as President, and then lengthy
and heated debate, by 50 votes to 24, went unheeded. This resignation was made from his hometown,
in view of the refusal, on 10 September step Bogota, vowing again before the Congress, meeting in extraordinary
session effect, and to uphold and defend there the Constitution of the Republic. In Venezuela
meanwhile had risen factions that, like Cisneros in Caracas, brought devastation everywhere.

The Constituent Congress of Peru had been met, prior to the events lately cited by 1 deg. May,
and declare that the Constitution sworn in on December 9th of the year was above zero and
with no effect, being punished by illegal and threatening the sovereignty of the people provisionally
restoring force and effect with suppression some chapters, meantime the Legislature was concerned
with forming a new one, that permitted and voted in 1823. Don Jose de Lamar, Grand Marshall, and
Don Manuel Salazar and were Barquijano elected, the first and the second as President and Vice-President
of the Republic. Such were the most notable or important in South America this year.

In 1828, following two major parties were stirred in the heart of Colombia. Those who aspired to
the best of faith in the world to make liberal changes in the law fundamental - which means,
in the eyes of his rivals, was the most on purpose to overthrow the Libertador, as well as
for those who wanted to divide the territory into three Colombian different states independent
of each other - were the first of these games. In the second Most were members of the generals,
commanders and Venezuelan officials, but all foreigners who remained in the service of Colombia
and the relatives and friends of Bolivar, that strove to uphold the integrity of the republic
created by the union of Venezuela, Quito and New Grenada. This was precisely the division attempted
by the faction contrary.

After having failed the National Convention held in Ocana on April 9 due to the findings of opinions
and political principles represented there, a gathering of people notables, formed in Bogota, signed
on June 13 an act in which they made solemn protest against any reform emanating from the Convention,
depositing the highest office of the Republic and his entire confidence in Gen. Bolivar, example
was later imitated and followed throughout latitude for the other races. In a manner as public
and was recognized by the illustrious esplicita Liberator as supreme chief of the state and invested
with the broadest powers.

On 24 of the month, this man, the subject of so many ongoing attacks, doubly enhanced for them,
for their acts of selflessness and heroic perseverance in the order which had proposed since the
beginning of the bell of independence, this man, worthy of a people not better, but more enlightened,
began to legislate on important matters, suppressing Vice-Presidency and the Council of State
giving a new and more appropriate to the needs around him.

Arrived at such a high degree the hatred of political opponents, who conspire against him, dominated
by the criminal to snatch the remote object with life at the same time, surnamed tyrant of the
country, the September 25 armed attacked the palace in Bogota when at midnight, after killing
the guards and managed to penetrate into the room del Libertador, fortunately could this save
throwing himself into the street from a window that lack of foresight on the part of the attackers
had run out of custody at all. A Once free, he could then his usual activity and energy to
take the necessary measures; and having been arrested the conspirators, all paid with their lives
for their reckless business unless the General Santander, also complicated
the plot and who the last sentence was commuted by Council of Government
in exile with deprivation of employment.

In this way, and the convocation of a Congress in Bogota for the January 2, 1830, the which would
come invested with the constitutional character, closed its doors in 1828, year full of discontent
with the excitement of the matches in which public opinion was divided
the country, the more formidable that stood in the heart of strong
men and seasoned to the vagaries of war.

Easy to understand is that in spite of such energetic measures would not have stopped the evil,
and so was in effect. He kept silent and slowly simmering in the minds of the discontented in
the year 1829, and become more deeply entrenched since the weight of power is not allowed to leave
to the surface, but as the appointed time for the installation of
Congress approaches, Bolivar published a manifesto in which authorized
people so that they could freely express its opinion, and through
the press, and by another one of those permitted by law.

At a reunion caused by the general chief of police, it was Arismendi, attended by several Notable
residents of Caracas in order to deal with requests that should be raised to Congress. Paez A circular
letter also encouraged them to voice their opinions with full openness and freedom. So we agreed to request
civil superior authority of the province should be convened the village at a general meeting,
pleading that was served, he immediately ordered the call. This Assembly, legally constituted
in the capital on November 26, resolved: "ignore the authority of the Liberator, Venezuela separate
Bogota government, will see of the former departments of that, by inviting them to a constituent body
recognize, defend them and publicly manifest that the separation of that government tried Venezuelans,
all of which are recorded. "Finally, they decided" that General Paez take charge of command
of the departments as it will verify the installation of new Congress.

"

No less agitation prevailed among the people of Granada. On January 2, 1830, made on commission
school several members of Congress of Colombia in Bogota, were beginning their work, and 4 agreed
on the desirability of making Bolivar person installs Congress to show people a good harmony
in which their representatives were the father of his country, calling him to combine the most
successful means of averting the calamities that threatened the country. Bolivar She went to the
appeal, and on November 20, five days after his arrival in Bogota, left installed Congress
formally renouncing to the presidency that he had conferred, but his resignation was rejected,
demanding that until the Constitution was enacted and appointed senior officials in political
order to clip the wings of anarchy retain its authority, the only
means Congress considered those skilled in threatening circumstances.

Indeed, the April 29 issue the Code remained political and appointed as President and Vice-President,
for the first charge Joaquin Mosquera and the second General Domingo
Caicedo, came to an end the dictatorship.

Twelve days after Congress closed sessions that Legislative Assembly, which was the season of
the collected on behalf and on behalf of Colombia.

The Liberator of South America, reduced to a mere condition of citizenship, 8 May went to Cartagena
in order to move to Europe, and the leave of the constituent wounded to the heart of his noble
heart of a patriot, not by separation of the high office that until there had been exercised, which
so many times as the present give up fair and dignity, nor hurt in
his ambition, since only retired "rich honors and glory; "utter these
remarkable words: I blush at the thought, but independently is the
only good that we won at the expense of everyone else.

In Venezuela, meanwhile, dated January 13, General Paez expedia two decrees, one which created for
the release of an interim government three Ministers of State whose duties were to carry on, War
and Navy, General Soublette; in Interior, Justice and Police, Dr. Miguel Pena, in Finance and
Foreign Affairs, the Graduate Diego Bautista Urbanski, and the other concerning the way in which
the elections should precede the Constituent Congress, which consist
of at least two-thirds, was to meet in Valencia on the 30th of April.

Installed this on May 8, his first act was a confirmation that the executive Paez was invested
until further resolution of Congress, whose tasks were completed on 22 September, sanctioning a
key code by declaring: "the government Venezuela is and always will be republican, popular, representative,
accountable and choice, " dividing the supreme authority in judicial, legislative and executive,
with a fourth power exclusively designed to understand at the municipal level. This was adopted
as a middle between centralism and federalism. The executive branch was headed by a judge with
the title of President of the Republic, and therefore this position as the Vice-President,
ceased after four years in office, not being re-elected, but after passing through at least
one constitutional term. Four ministers responsible would be elected by the President's exercise
of his ministry. The legislative branch would consist of a Congress popular, divided into two chambers,
one of Deputies and the Senate representatives, elected also for
only four years.

This was the final outcome I can see Bolivar, the man whose efforts were enough to win independence
for his country, and which were powerless to maintain integrity of Colombia. From now on, pursued
by the idea of ??inevitable ruin the nation at the cost of their blood and most of his fortune had
been dragged out of nothing mortally wounded in her tender and constant affection to their beloved
homeland, December 17, at one o'clock in the afternoon and the 47 years of age, expired on
the fifth of San Pedro, located within walking away from Santa Marta, directing the expression
of his ultimate sacrifice for the peoples of Colombia in these memorable
words: If my death contributes to cease and the parties union has
set in, I calm down the pit.

?

Could be required but the heroic liberator of South America? His remains lie in the Caracas
metropolitan Holy Church from the December 17, 1842, after having been just twelve years between the
Granada. ic strange! Gen. Jose Antonio Paez was President of the Republic of Venezuela when Congress
passed the Transfer of the precious ashes Father of the Nation.

FIN