 

In sum, not to tire my readers, I'll end by saying that Don finally picked Acisclo the reward
of his labors.

The elections came, and D. Acisclo won the election.

Congressman Don Jaime Pimentel left by a large majority.

Some want to imply that D. Acisclo did a thousand stage machinery and falsehoods, but nothing
could prove, and therefore should not believe.

Don Jaime Pimentel, without leaving the court, not just write a letter, with the highest calm,
was pleased to receive your certificate, almost clean, they only had two minor protests and ill-founded.

The
joy of D. Acisclo was great after the win. Lauro yours! Which shows of power that had just given!
With an invisible candidate, careless, lazy, with an enemy so strong, so unique, so as phoenix
pattern and the representatives of the people, had achieved win and win by a landslide. After
marveling at his own capacity for policy, only acknowledged debtor
D. Juan Fresco and abundant peat bermejinos that followed on the day
of the election as a respected leader.

Throughout this long election period, the friendly relations and Dona
Luz P. Enrique it was closing more every day.

To Dona Manolita, drifting of the enthusiasm of her husband, or share it, I never thought more than
in elections.

Doña Luz and father were certainly the only two people in a certain position in the whole district,
had not thought of this or the other candidate, and who had not toiled for victory any of them.

In the midst of political turmoil, had been found in the same withdrawal sweet home of those who
promoted, and there were talks soft and lofty, and pleasant conversations, you always learn something
Dona Luz, which was always new excellence in understanding and in
the heart of the father and the father, in turn, never failed to amaze
the clearance, sharpness, the remarkable discretion of poetic fantasy
and exquisite sensitivity its fine interlocutor.

Don Anselmo was third in the debates, although not as much, for having been too D. Acisclo very interested
in the election. And the priest Don Miguel had kept going to record to socialize, while Father's
wise dialogue and Dona Luz magnetized and enthralled him in such
a way, that within minutes of beginning to hear, he would stay asleep,
sometimes accompanied and animated with music and endless sound of
snoring.

It was from this that the only person who was really consistent and intelligent control of mutual
affection and intimate conversation of Mrs. Light and the Father, was Dona Manolita. I I do not
want to do this, or any of my heroes, better than they are or what they were. Doña Manolita
was not a dove without gall, and not because they hated someone, but because he kept have malice.
Rather, it could tick Dona Manolita have it. Rather it could be acknowledge that without envy
or bitterness, and just for the sake of art, like some gossip, and still too much, as a rule for his
judgments, that terrible sentence wrong and think be right. However, thanks to the loving devotion
that inspired him Dona Luz, she played always more benevolent side all his acts and speeches.
Therefore, although insight Dona Manolita long time could not hide that irresistible inclination
of two souls, Dona Manolita never failed to do justice to Dona Luz, and acknowledged and declared,
back in bottom of his chest, in her friend had not the slightest
intention of disrupting the mood Father's lure with flirting or blamed.

The

respect and affection of the doctor's daughter Fr Enrique were great too, but not both that any
failure would prevent something completely opposite of their behavior. Doña Manolita then,
without thinking that Dona Luz had given no occasion for it or why he began to suspect the Father,
more or less confused and vaguely, was in love. Respect for his friend and because in the
places people do not walk the ethereal subtleties or passed over still, and because to say something
she had given rise to be added much, Donna and her father Manolita entrusted with the results
of his observations. Entrusted only to Güeto Pepe, who was hiding anything; but demanding the
deepest secrecy.

The severity of the Father Dona Luz and cut flights to all the boldness of Dona Manolita who never
molested directing the Father, even as a joke and rodeos and circumlocution, indirect darker on
the passion that he imagined. Doña Manolita continued, however, watching. Pepe Güeto also
observed. Both spouses are then communicated what they had observed. Of Thus came the two to corroborate
the idea that the Father, perhaps without knowing it, loved Dona Luz by mystical and subtle
style, and that Dona Luz worship was left without assuming any disgusting term, without reflecting
on all the significance that this worship might have, and seeing in it more than a tender friendship,
friendly and impeccable, as she professed the convalescent and poetic
mission.

It happened in an incident that was not expected now. Suddenly, when D. Acisclo had resigned to
his deputy were invisible to the district, he immediately wrote him
telling him that came to visit.

The first town that was to be presented Villafría, whence horse, and the corresponding bubble,
was to pass to travel and visit other towns.

Don Acisclo was glad of this coming, which would give the greatest importance, but had to strive
to have good things to do D. Jaime Pimentel brilliant reception. To accommodate you with dignity
and even luxury, came to asking the best Dona Luz rooms of his ancestral
home, not occupied by his nephew, and to offer D. Jaime a good horse
to ride and go from village to village, also went to Dona Luz, asking
lent her beautiful black horse.

Luz had to agree to everything.

The day before they had to reach D. Jaime, everyone was abuzz in place with the great feast of
the reception would be. To Dona Manolita was more cheerful than usual and very talkative. In the
daily gatherings she attended only Dona Luz and the Father because
the rest were still busy with the preparations for the party, or relaxing
from the hustle that day.

Donna then had an occurrence Manolita something malicious, and that his feelings had to give much light
on their research. Why was not to tease Dona Luz, predicting that D. Jaime, who said fame wonderful
praise, and he was free and single, would love it, just to see her with the happy surprise of
finding in a small village as complete paragon of elegance, distinction and beauty? Why, to tease
and Dona Luz, with some the flatter, could not make a joke rather heavy covertly to the Father,
whose love, tangled and murky in the center of consciousness, it would clarify with the reagent jealousy?
Doña Manolita, after making a joke, I would look to the Father, to
see if they budge or remained impassive, seemingly at least.

As I said than done.

Manolita said Dona Dona Luz D. Jaime was going to fall in love with her, just saw her, that
D. Jaime did not suspect that in a place so cornered as Villafria much treasure was hidden, and
that, in his view, it was clear the future of D. Love Jaime.

- What stranger - he continued - not in love with you, who have come to Villafria young, free
and in a state of merit? Prepare, therefore, the syrup with you usually
tip the pumpkins, if you think also give to it.

But who knows? The suitor, which Columbro and is not rustic, or local, as you've had so far. They
say it the cream of the elegant Madrid, and also a brave soldier and a man of great future and extraordinary
talent. Will you be so fierce that also despise?

Doña Luz, without anger, but rather something flattered, responded by denying the validity of
the forecast, and ensuring, with a little mock modesty, that Don Jaime, accustomed to seeing
on the court so beautiful women, it would notice it or would ignore.

- In addition - "Dona Luz - no fear that I intend to that gentleman. I'm not what is called
a good game. For him it needs a rich heiress, to give wings to his ambition, and not a poor
girl that string and will serve as a burden and nuisance. Believe me, Manuela, and I've said
a thousand times, I never will marry me ... I do not want to marry.

Let's not talk nonsense, even in jest.

Doña Manolita during these sentences between her friend and she crossed, glanced Father and thought
he saw had been paler than usual.

Otherwise the Father remained silent and did not give their opinion
or possible crush on D. Jaime, no the constant aim of Dona Luz to
stay single.

At ten o'clock he retired to his home, and the two friends were left alone.

Dona Manolita then encouraged with how well his first joke was tolerated, and such Once grateful as
flattery, in the depths of the soul of the daughter of the Marquis,
was tempted venturing to make another joke a lot less light.

Without thinking much, he said, because, as follows:

- Ay! Daughter! I regret having said what's D. Jaime.

- Why do you regret? - Simply asked Dona Luz -. I do not think probable that courtly knight falls
in love with me, in three or four days you have to be here, but and even that is impossible, or
you are offended me, estimated at more than I deserve, I foretell such a triumph, you have to
do to repent, but for the fear of too exalted my pride.

- It's not that fear - said the doctor's daughter - which leads me to repentance, but fear of
having hurt a sensitive heart, of having made a deep wound.

- I do not understand - "Dona Luz -, what do you mean? What is this tender heart?

- The P. Enrique - said in an evil hour Mrs. Manolita.

Luz blushed scarlet. All the blood in his body would be turned up to head. All the pride of
caste was gathered and piled in his heart. Saw nothing but ridiculous indignant they believed
that the object of the passion of a friar. She believed that a friar could admired for their
talent, estimated by his virtues revered for its impeccable behavior, and taste their intercourse
and conversation, and pleased to be your friend, but seemed to fall in love so absurd, so contrary
to all the conveniences and social and religious laws, so monstrously ugly and shocking, I did
not want, or could, or should suspect it in person the trial, the
circumspection and even sanctity in the P. Enrique showed.

Luz looked for, as an evil villain and mean Manolita Dona thought
and expression as an insult of that thinking through the floor.

-
What you have just uttered - said in a voice stammering with rage
- is an insult, it a harsh accusation against Fr Henry and me.

Neither the father is delirious, and I have given occasion to rave. A clean so that my fame
is protected from slander, I've enclosed in this place, I have separated
almost everything humanely, I fled the youth, while I was young, be
so still, as I am, I have admitted my privacy but old sixty years
as your father, the priest, Don Acisclo, and none of this has earned
me.

For me, about thirty years I have left, I have trusted with pleasure, I declare frankly in friendship
honored servant of God, tested in a thousand hardships, broken by them, full of science and
virtue, not conceived this friendship, this treatment is not explained,
but vile and impure motives.

And there are the rustic place, not that I do not know, but my best friend and me I suspect injury.

Poor
Donna was terrified Manolita: is pricked, and after he burst into tears.

- But, my dear - he said -, do not get mad for love of God. I certainly have explained me wrong.
I I'm not saying that is impure the Father's love ....

- What nonsense are yours? - Interrupted Dona Luz -. What loss of ideas? What foolish distinctions
intend to do? How do you explain away the love of a brother to a girl honored? Such love is
always impure, is infamous, it is sacrilegious.

Viewing Dona Manolita there was no way to remedy his clumsiness, and have irritated apuradísima
both Dona Luz, whom he loved with all my heart, did not utter a single word, but cried and sobbed as
if he had come upon the most cruel misfortune.

Then Dona Luz, who had a good background, despite his pride, he felt he had been hard rough and too
much, and apologized to Mrs. Manolita, kissing and all but crying
too.

The two friends came to get a result much more friendly than before. Luz was convinced Dona Manolita
that he had not intended to tarnish in the least purity friendly
relations with the P. Henry, and Mrs. Manolita made by convincing
and even convinced by the time that P. Henry, even as Dante loved
Beatrice, like Petrarch Laura loved, or loved Dulcinea Don Quixote,
was able to doña Luz love, because, being him a monk and she a highly
educated lady and honestísima, such love, convoluted, spiritual and
incorporeal as it was, had a something unseemly and grotesque commoner
the sinful condition of your beautiful and superb fitted very bad
friend.

No well-finished to make peace, came Don Pepe Güeto Acisclo who did not notice last traces of
the storm.

They dined in the four friendly company, and with good appetite,
and then went to sleep.

The next day was celebrated with pomp and din the triumphal entry of D. Jaime in Villafría.
Few had horses, and not a few who had only mule or donkey, went at dawn to greet at the station,
with D. Acisclo the front, and about eleven o'clock they all returned to the deputy, Knight him
in the beautiful black horse Dona Luz.

At the gates of the place came the boys and men on foot to receive the ride lucida, and they
all went through the streets to the sound of the bells that were cast in flight between live
and cheers, and thunderous shot from air guns were serviceable in many Villafría.

-XIII-

Crisis

Having rejected as cruel despondency Manolita Dona words and then
of made peace, Dona Luz thought to their own in the value and purpose
of those words; and, as if a strange new light illuminate the darkest
labyrinths of his brain, thought he heard the whole truth and acknowledged
that his friend had some show of reason to say he said.

Luz was angry perhaps because his own conscience, taking advantage of the words Dona Manolita had
entered a more severe charge. What difference is radical and important is between the tender and
exclusive friendship between the most marked predilection a man for a woman and a woman by
a man, neither old yet, and love purest, most sublime Platonic? Luz itself is put this matter, and
not conceive resolve but in the sense that no difference occurs, or, if given, only is obvious and
subtle cigar breaks, I decided it was not absurd or insolence to
assume and claim that she was in love with Fr Enrique.

Father, chained by respect, taking into account their state, their votes and positions, he had
kept well to state their love in a way that would make even remotely suspect that it was not legitimate
and unblemished; but certainly in the bottom of his soul he felt.

Dona Luz after leaving this as sitting and obvious, he asked again: "What about me I done to inspire
this passion? What acquire fault that he loves me? To what extent have given and continue
to give fuel to his affection? ". The answer was that Dona Luz was contradictory and confusing.
Ora was condemned, now is absolved. Was condemned to recognize that she had concealed much less
than the complacency with which he heard him, the glad sight caused him, the delight in his
conversation he always brought, and she instinctively reckless, but depraved, liked to look
beautiful and elegant at all, and particularly people who wanted among which could not fail to
include the Father.

Another set of considerations came into his mind then to acquit her. Why, do not lawful love
science, virtue and wit that sparkled in the Father? What wrong had to show it? And as for care
in the adornment of her person, what divine or human law could impose the obligation to conceal
the clothes that heaven had given him and not show them off to where this is consistent with
the most rigid decorum? Thus Dona Luz was acquitted, but continuing in thought, he added in
his thinking: "If I guess he loves me, why not must suppose him that I love? If I have no
reason to suppose, if my vanity who it is, well can he be so vain as me and guess the same way. And
if I guess with "the reason why I have given to make the same assumption is less chance?".
Luz then had to confess that, having regard to the natural reserve
that should have women, and the modesty and timidity should ensure
that mitigate the movements and inclinations heart, she had more reason
to the Father so that he believed that love that he had given her
for on his part, believe.

The proverb says that whoever proves much proves nothing, and this
occurred not well Dona Luz showed that not only the Father was in
love with her, but she was in love Fr.

Examined the soul, the heart was questioned, and as he answered that they did not love Father,
again believe that the presumption could only imagine that the Father do love her to it. All that,
after so many detours, drew Dona Luz was clear at that loving and
living and privacy in those conversations so wise of her to him was
led to some perverse interpretations, some tacky, some pedantic and
local at a time, that seemed funny, and ridiculous as thinking that
was attenuated only his life could not take place unless foolish error.

Luz

decided, therefore, be more cautious and less expansive in the future, not often both philosophical
and theological discussions, and trusts and dealing with the venerable nephew the former manager
of his home.

"If there is - she concluded - and dangerous mutual inclination in
our souls, could be expected, and this offended me, and if so, as
the inclination would be abhorrent in every way, it root cutting.

"

In either event, Dona Luz recognized the need for change of behavior, the convenience, availing
of a Spanish phrase, somewhat dated, but graphic, put your neglect in repair.

The arrival of the triumphant and newly Villafría MP D. Jaime Pimentel and coincided Moncada almost
to the prudent, if somewhat belated resolution.

Doña Luz, accompanied by her friend benign, was on a low window, waiting for the appearance
the pomp and triumph, which was foreshadowed by the ringing of the
dead and alive.

Don Jaime, riding through D. Pepe Güeto Acisclo and preceded by a
mob of boys and men on foot, and followed by a good crowd of people
on horseback and even more people walking, was after all in the eyes
of our heroine.

Fame had not lied. Was D. Jaime all a gallant gentleman. He rode with grace and determination.
Although he was nearly forty years, it seemed that he was only thirty. Her simple dress left
see in details all the elegance and good taste.

The cavalcade stopped at the door D. Acisclo, and this, followed by his godson and guest, soon found
in the room, where waiting and Dona Dona Luz Manolita.

- Here is V. our MEP Mr D. Jaime - said D. Acisclo, presenting Dona Luz -; and then he said to D.
Jaime:

- Miss Dona Luz, daughter of the late Marquis of Villafría.

The distant memory and confusion of Madrid's high society that Dona Luz had only interviews for more
than twelve years, the vague idea of ??a more educated and aristocratic,
the forms and be dreamed of ladies and gallants, their uses, discreteos,
adventure and romance, such which she had fantasized or discerned,
without seeing or enjoy, bound, the dawn of life, to retire to a small
town, everything suddenly came to mind Dona Luz, looking at D. Jaime
Pimentel, noting the ease and naturalness of his distinguished manners,
and to hear his accent and the few and sensible words addressed to
you, which neither sinned of cold and dry, or end by the gallant,
but are locked within more respectful of discretion.

Because there was less Dona Luz who felt that he was speaking, nor the insolent courtier either,
which reveals the superiority through their feigned politeness, but the man of the same class
as her, speaking as an equal, but with the attentions than a leading lady should be provided.
Luz understood this, was pleased about it, and thanked him for everything.

Harto said different tone he used Don Jaime, speaking with Dona Manolita, no sooner had she too.

Two
days were D. Jaime in Villafría, after which it was necessary to continue the started task of visiting
all parts of the district.

During these two days, D. Acisclo deployed the most prodigious magnificence.

Had, so to speak and table of state. All her relatives, the doctor, his daughter and her husband,
and the priest D. Miguel, lunch, ate and even had dinner with him
and Pacino D. Jaime.

He always sat right of Doña Luz, Doña Manolita always had the other side.

Petra, the housekeeper, performed miracles in those two days.

What stuffed turkeys, which cooked with sausage, chorizo, sausage and morcones, what tortillas with
green asparagus, which platazos the fricassee, which stews thistles, Morrill and peas, ham
and eggs which yarn what maimones cakes, and what delicious alboronía, salmorejos spicy, fresh
gazpacho and salads, and various syrup and syrup, not flavored or
presented in the table of his master?

The five best musicians in
the place came at night with its sonorous chords and instruments,
and danced at the high block, because the floor was as sanctified
by the sacrament.

Don Jaime and Dona Manolita quadrille danced with
one of the daughters of D. Acisclo and Dona Light not only quadrille
danced, but also the waltz.

Dona Luz was very fine and friendly,
and the Dona Luz was also with him. 

Urban jokes, the anecdotillas
spicy, without bordering on free paintings intrigue and sets of Madrid,
in relation with lightness and delicacy by Don Jaime, had a great
time to Dona Light and made her laugh, something that pleased him
and stunned, because it was easy to laugh. Always that the conversation
was general, the said D. Jaime loved the audience, and everyone applauded.