 I also believe that the world of Men, Mountains people
give their blood and die completely opposite interests to their own interests. The poor, dressed
in uniform, fighting to preserve their wealth to the rich and the soldiers, when wars end, living
in poverty, while those who remained calm in their homes are divided conquered things, ignorant
women who support men claims are opposed to female. Such are the absurdities of life.

The giant nodded a nod, while Popito continued his story.

The insurrection had to be postponed by a day, until, at last, in the morning before, Ra-Ra,
with a few thousand slaves and bringing as many young officers to the clubs 'men', launched the assault
on the university to seize the arms deposited in the Historical Museum. Felt sure of victory thanks
to production machines a vaporous shell neutralizing the effect of black rays. A slight disruption
occurred at the last moment in the mechanism of these machines had caused the delay of movement insurrection.

But
the government was aware of it, and a battalion of girls defended
Guard University.

Many of these spontaneously rushed to handle the old weapons, invented by men, on the advice
of a professor who thought he had guessed reading use musty books.

Most of the guns did not work.

In other guns broke, killing that drove the Amazons. But the very few who happened could send
shells at the attackers to put them in dispersion. In addition, men who had never heard the
noise of firearms, were the shock itself the lack of custom.

The rest of the guards attacked tenacious crush the insurgents who
refused to flee, and Ra-Ra, with many of his officers, was taken prisoner.

-
Today the judge, gentleman, and is sure to condemn him to death.

Only you can save it. Desoiga not my request.

Gillespie stared intently to a painful Popito. The poor girl moaned, never his watery eyes, as
if it were a divinity that put all their hopes.

Began to feel the wrath of a jealous at seeing Miss Margaret Haynes was concerned both Ra-Ra and
wept over his fate.

- I will be your slave - said the young - but save it.

Let him live, although I lost my freedom forever.

Then he thought that Ra-Ra was a reduction of his person, and this made him more logical to
find Miss Margaret's conduct, or be of Popito. But what could he do, poor giant, for save himself?
... Mused, as the young, still trying to imagining to resist their pleas, the tragically repeated
with a desperate expression.

- I beg, Miss Margaret - Edwin said - that street for a moment and let me think.

By being so addressed, believed his moans Popito really distracted the giant, and remained
silent.

For a mental phenomenon due to the overpowering influence
of his selfishness, Gillespie began to think, against his will, in
the old warrior became a translator