 

Yes, however, the above is clearly evident. Would it not have better suited your purpose, if Ignacio
had fallen passionately in love with Miss Eulalia before marriage? This would better explain that
while it is improbable, bordering on impossible something happens to Ignacio that is similar
to what happens to the tenor, Fernando in the beautiful opera, La Favorita. Ignacio, to a lesser
extent feeble minded, a sleepwalker and absent minded, but in a sense, without finding out
what had happened, he is just as jealous of his honor in the aforementioned marriage to Eulalia.
And, here, far from lessening difficulties, in my opinion I feel it unnecessarily grows and multiplies
for you. It is enough the indiscretions of Eulalia are known to all of Madrid society. Besides,
why do you suppose that Eulalia is kept intimately adorned by such a man? Would it not have been
more prudent, that the novelist could suppose as he pleases, or that Eulalia had not received
such items, or that this was naturally and quietly revealed before
your wedding?

But, no sir. You insist that the business is strange and difficult to explain, and the wedding
you celebrate is in the end a premature escape that presents the appearance of a perfect
human being.

In light of what is happening and what you are saying, not just a few people of the high society to which
you belong, accuse you of deep pessimism, coated in dark immorality
and vices.

For which I see in the distance as your bad intentions. And, neither do I understand what is to be the
bad result, while the intention is to be good.

The truth is, more a very sad truth, that more noble and pure virtues ascend moral excellence. They
do not clearly demonstrate themselves as good, neither do they glow, if the vices, sins and evils
do not have a reason or cause for it. The virtue, we say, will be like
a cocoon that will never be a perfect flowering calyx, opening the petals
and scent the air with their fragrance. If the vice is without want,
and by contradiction, you should not intervene in the matter