 "Truly, gentlemen, he says, I do not know what the
hell Tonight we had at home. Occupied in dispatching some papers that I was in a hurry, I
had gone to bed yet, when behold, at around midnight I hear a noise that I thought the house we
came over. What is cat could not be, because it was impossible for him to do such a crash, and
also this morning nothing has been found, nor dislocated, or torn. O'clock lights, I have not
seen, but voices sounded so dreadful that I would have very nearly put fear in the body, is positive.
We'll see if the zambra is repeated: I am afraid that we wanted to play a trick. I wish to surprise
the actors play their part. " Since then the question changes its appearance, what was once
improbable has become credible, the fact is true, just need to clarify its nature.

§ III.

Examination and application of the second condition.

If you should guard against the deception that may have suffered innocently narrator not matter
less to be on guard against the lack of veracity. To this effect will be well informed of the
opinion that at this point enjoyed by the person, and above all to examine whether any passion the
interest or impel to lie. What can be done if the person who paints extraordinary fact weapons
is awaiting degrees, jobs and decorations?

It's pretty clear the party take the speculator, if not dominated by rigid moral principles, gentlemanly
delicacy. So, who relates events whose truth has great interest or appearance, witnesses suspect,
give credit to your word was very Thin proceed.

When we try to calculate the probability of an event we do not know but by the testimony other,
it must meet two conditions simultaneously explained: knowledge and
veracity.

But as in many cases, at most of the testimony, we have some data to guess on the probability of
what we are told, is necessary to make them come in combination, to decide with less risk of
error. Usually, there are many things to attend to, in which teach more examples than the rules.

A
general gives part of a brilliant victory just got, and the enemy, of course, was superior in
strength, occupied a very advantageous position, but has been run in all directions, and only
a hasty flight has escaped left to the winning number prisoners. The overall loss was negligible
in comparison with that of the enemy; some companies that carried his zeal too much had gone
ahead, wrapped viéronse by quadrupling forces and had a few moments
of conflict, but thanks to the bravery heads and wise general provisions,
pudiéronse replicate with the highest order without further result
that a few stray soldiers.

What concept form of the action?

In order to see how much circumspection is required if you want it right in trials, and with a view
to provide examples to serve on other standard cases, to detail the many circumstances that must be
met.

Is it generally known? Has reputation for honest and modest, boastful or square pass? What are his
military talents? Junior What you help? "Their troops have a reputation for courage and discipline?
Do you have distinguished themselves in other actions, or are discredited by frequent defeats?
How What enemy has had to contend? What was the object of the expedition of General? Did has succeeded
or not? In part there is a clause that says: "Be positive that the square N can still held a
few days. So I have not thought it necessary to hasten the operations, mostly when the situation
of the soldier, exhausted with hunger and fatigue, imperiously demanded some rest. The convoy
left the city safe in M, where I have retreated, leaving the enemy
a position that I was useless, and leaving that cebase in a portion
of provisions that in the heat of the fray fell into their power,
owing to a temporary disorder that was due fear of bagajeros.

"The business has a bad appearance, in spite of all the rodeos, the knows that the winner has lost
a part of the convoy, and could not go through the rest.

What we presented in testimony trophies of their victory?

It has not taken prisoners, and he confesses some have gone astray, those companies were too
early moments of conflict, and forces were involved in quadruplicate, all this means that there
was at that part of an "every man for himself" and that the enemy
did not fail to take hold.

What are the news coming from the place where the general has been
replicated?

It is likely that letters will be sad and distressing descriptions that will bring about the disorder
that came the troops, and the decrease of the convoy.

What do the supporters of the enemy?

Ah! just clarify this mystery has been laid bells to flight at the point P, and have entered
many prisoners, the enemies have been presented proud in the presence of the besieged city, whose troubles
are greater every day.

What is making the overall winner? It remains inactive, and adds that he has asked for reinforcements;
the brilliant victory will have been distinguished as a defeat.

§ IV.

A remark on the interest in cheating.

There are cases in which the narrator that seems interested in not telling the truth, it is unlikely
you have done, because soon discovered the lie, without recourse to alleviate it, would become
against him in a disgraceful manner.

Experience teaches us not to be trusted for certain military relations can not be contradicted
later, clearly and with the presence of positive data, producing complete evidence. The greatest
strength of the enemy or under the order or the dispersion with that this or that part of his
army retreated, the number of dead or wounded, I more or less favorable for some positions to
address the situation of the combatants, more or less impassable
roads, and other things along those lines, how can clarify the While
the public?

Everyone referred to things his own way, according to their news, interests or desires; and
they who know the truth are perhaps the first to darken the circulating most egregious untruths.
Those who come to get rid of the mess, and to see clearly in the business, or silent, or are
challenged by many thousand to sustain the illusion who care, and falling on the spot cheaters
never so shameful that do not allow any disguise. But suppose that a general who is besieging
a place, and can do nothing against it, is imprudent to send a pompous part of the government,
announcing that he has taken by assault and are in possession of the remains of the garrison who
have perished in the fray, at a few days will know the government knows the public will know
the same military that the general lied in a manner so shocking, and ridicule and the shame
that will befall you will impostor pay dearly for his glory for now.

Here is that in such cases the public's sense often ask if the part It's official: and if it is, but
that ignores the circumstances that seeks to enhance the fact nevertheless lends credence
to the existence of it. So it is noteworthy that when most serious troubles it lies in a scandalous
manner, with the aim of encouraging a few hours and lead to more time, rarely invents a part
naming people, it appeals to the formulas "we know the positive, an eyewitness to refer just"
and the like; offices are supposed to be printed later received, etc. are sorted public rejoicing.
but always tends to leave a way open for a lie does not hit the front too with good sense, are
careful not to compromise the name of specific individuals; in a
word, to reign the greatest audacity, always saved some considerations
to public awareness.

To leave it to lend credence to a relationship, not enough to object that the narrator is interested
in not telling the truth, it is necessary to consider whether the circumstances of the lie
is so unfortunate, that soon after its discovery there in their nakedness, without that fits the
deceiver the excuse that he was mistaken or had been misinformed. In these cases, however little
is the category of person, low self-esteem that it can be assume, mostly when the matter goes public,
it is prudent to give credit, if this can not be any damage. It will be possible to leave
deceived, but the probability is against and much higher level.

§ V.

Difficulties in reaching the truth, amid great distance of place or time.

If it is so difficult to find the truth, when the events are contemporary, and perform in our
own country, what about what happens to long distance of place or time, or of the two? How
is it possible to clean out the truth from the hands of passengers or historians? For more heartbreaking
it is, it must be confessed, who has observed how bulges, and exaggerated, and it decreases and
becomes distorted, and upset top-down as well as we seeing with our
eyes, by necessity has to feel very discouraged when you open a book
history or travel, or to read newspapers, particularly foreigners.

Who lives at the same time and country of events has many ways to
avoid error, or see things for himself, or he reads and hears very
different relationships that can compare each other, and as is data
on the backgrounds of people and things like is dealing with people
of opposing interests and opinions, as follows closely the course
of all events, it is not possible through hard work and discretion
rinsing at some points the truth.

But what will be the unfortunate reader who lives in the distant
past countries, and perhaps in the long distance of centuries, and
has no other guide than the newspaper or work by chance in a reading
room, or in a library, or to be acquired Recommended by seeing those
written somewhere, or heard praise of those who boasted understand?

There are three channels through which we tend to acquire knowledge
of what happens in times and distant places: newspapers, passenger
relations, and stories.

Tell four words on each of them [8].

CHAPTER IX.

NEWSPAPERS.

§ I.

An illusion.

Some believe that with respect to the countries where it is in effect the freedom of the press, no
is very difficult to find the truth, because having all sorts of interests and views any newspaper
that serves as a body, each vanish the mistakes of others, Gushing matching the light of truth. "Among
all know everything and say everything is no longer required be patient in reading, comparing
care, tact and prudence in discerning judge. "So run few. I think this is pure illusion, and the
first thing is that neither seat over to the persons or things, the papers do not say all, nor
much, nor even that who know the writers, even in the freest country.

§ II.

The newspapers say it all about people.

We are witnessing at every step that proponents of what is called a salience, the intemperate
praise to praise, while his opponents he was given to the dictates hands full ignorant, stupid,
inhuman, bloodthirsty, tigre, traitor, monster, and other niceties for this style. The knowledge,
talent, honesty, kindness, generosity and other qualities ascribed to the hero the writers of
his devotion, are in fact somewhat faded with fulfillment of its enemies, but finally, what do
you find a clean of this turmoil? What think abroad to be decided by one end, or to adopt a middle
way referee referee? The result is groping, and be clarified or to suspend trial or to fall
into gross errors. The public career of the man in question is not always indicated by well-characterized
events, and also what is in them good or bad, not always is it clear whether attributed to
him or to his subordinates.

The funny thing is that sometimes such strife between the public opinion in certain circles,
and maybe in the whole country, is fixed on the character, so that does not appear but lies by
mutual agreement. In fact, talking with men who are without news, maybe the same as they have
declared war over raw, "what is talent, you will hear, nobody denies, knows a lot and has no
bad intentions, but what would you have ?.... gotten in That, and
oust need, I'm the first to respect as a private person, and hopefully
we had listened to us, we would have done much, and would have played
a role brilliant.

"You see that one so honest, so intelligent, active and energetic, to say of certain newspapers,
he and only he can remove the country from the brink? Listen to those who know him closely, and
perhaps his most ardent supporters. "That is an unhappy already know, but at last is the man
we need, and someone we have to enforce.

He is accused of handling unclean, that who is ignorant? in bank A has made such funds, and
now is going to do the same in the bank B. In fact stealing a manner too shocking, but see V., and
how common this is ...., and also, when we accuse our opponents, not it is necessary that one
would leave the horns of the bull. Do not know V. the history of this man? as I'll tell V. his
life and miracles ... "And I relate his adventures, ups and low, and its evil or misery, or
nonsense, and since then you suffer no illusions, and you judge forward
with confidence and success.

These proportions do not usually enjoy them foreigners or nationals who satisfied with the reading
of newspapers, and so believe that the comparison of those opposite views are clear about
the truth, form the most wrong concepts men and things.

The fear of being denounced, of alienating some people, the respect due to privacy, decorum itself,
and other similar reasons, often to prevent newspapers descending to certain details, and refer
anécdoctas that portray the character alive who attack, it sometimes happens that the same
exaggeration of the charges, intemperance of invective, and the cruelty of the satire, or do
not do much damage with it could do with the simple and quiet exhibition of some particular facts.

The writers usually distinguish between the private man and public
figure, ie very good in most cases, because otherwise the controversial
journalistic luck and too bitter and broken, soon became a quagmire
where it stirred intolerable filth, but this does not mean that the
private life of a man not used very either to speculate on their behavior
in public places.

Who in the regular treatment does not respect the property of others,
would he proceed with purity when handling the finances of the nation?

The man in bad faith, no convictions of any kind, without religion,
without morals, do you think to be consistent in the political principles
appear to profess, and in his words and promises can rest assured
the government that uses their services?

The Epicurean per system, which shamelessly insulting the people the public decorum, being a
bad husband and bad father, do you think that renounce their profligacy when they see elevated
to the judiciary, and of corruption and insolence have nothing to fear innocence and good fortune,
nothing to hope for the insolence and injustice of the wicked? And none of it say newspapers
can say nothing but the writers are satisfied without any doubt.

§ III.

The newspapers say it all about things.

Even in politics, is not true that the newspapers say it all.

Who does not know how far Usually the views expressed in friendly
conversation of what is said written?

When writing in public there is always some formalities to be filled, and many considerations
to keep, not a few say the opposite of what they think, and even more rigid in terms of accuracy
are sometimes specified as not to say what I do not think, at least that much less than you think. We
should not forget these warnings, if want to know something more in politics than they walk through
the world as many fake currency recognized, accepted each other without so intelligent mistake
on its weight and fineness. [9]

CHAPTER X.

FOREIGN TRAVEL.

§ I.

Two very different relationships travel.

In this kind of writing should be distinguished two parts: the descriptions of objects which seen, or
scenes you witnessed the traveler, and other news and observations that fills his work. As regards
the former, we should remember what has been said about the truth; adding two caveats: 1 ª.
that distrust of the fidelity of the pictures should be kept some proportion to the distance
from the scene, by the thing: distant lands, Luengas lies, 2 ª. that travelers are at risk
of exaggerating, disfiguring, and to pretend, be doing very wrong ideas about the country that
describe, for the vain itch to be interesting, and given importance, telling outlandish adventures.

As
to the other news and observations, it is possible to reduce fixed rules how to distinguish
truth from error, mostly being impossible task in many cases. But it will be characterized
by thoughts that somehow fill the void of rules, inspiring mistrust and maintaining prudent to
keep the inexperienced and unwary.

§ II.

Origin and formation of some relationships travel.

How are most of the trips? Spending no more than the most famous places, both in stopping some
major points, and across the country through so quickly as is possible, therefore to instigate
this powerful three reasons: to save time, save money, and lessen the discomfort. If the country
is cultivated, with good roads, with canals, rivers and coasts of
rapid navigation, the traveler jumps from one capital to another shooting
like an arrow; asleep with the rocking of the car or ship, and poking
his head out the door to recreate the view of some beautiful landscape,
or strolling on deck watching the banks of the river which robs power.

Hence results from across the country through is completely unknown in regards to ideas, religion
and customs. Something is about the quality of the land and the costumes of the inhabitants,
because both objects offered to the eyes, but even in these things if the traveler is cautious,
and attempts to speak general, readers may disseminate false news items and extravagant. If
from here to Some years we go through the Ebro from Zaragoza to Tortosa, the traveler to paint
field and costumes of Aragon and Catalonia, stick to what we had seen on the banks the river,
by the way that they provide to their readers back crazy.

Now reflect the relationships fond of travel, if you need to do the detailed news about a country
many thousands of square miles described by a passenger who observed in the above manner. "He who
has seen up close what he says, and will without a trace of doubt "in this way you talk, or
credulous reader, thinking that this news gathering put your hard work and care guide, for I'll
tell you what might very well have happened, and again do not leave so easily fooled.

Travelers come to the capital, perhaps with little knowledge of the language, and perhaps with
any, will be walked dazed and confused some days, in the maze of streets and squares, often
deployed to the city level, asking at every corner, and out of step the best possible way to find
the passport office, the home of the embassy, ??and sugetos for those who carried the letter of
recommendation.

This time is not well adapted to observe, and if at times takes car to get rid of tiredness
and to avoid loss, the worse for the notes of their portfolio: all paraded his eyes very quickly
and in flashlight magic illusions pictures, collect very pleasant sensations, but not much
news. Next comes the visit of the main buildings, monuments and beauties beauties whose index
is in the guide, and the capital or not be in the majors, or would it have gone many days in
the said task. The season is ahead, it should still visit other cities, go to the bathroom, attend
this or that scene at a distant point, the traveler to take the baton and run to run elsewhere so just
to practice there. At Within months of his departure from the homeland, is now back, and ordered during
the winter his notes, and spring is a growing sales volume on the
trip.

Agriculture arts, commerce, science, politics, popular ideas, religion, customs, habits, character,
everything has closely observed the lucky traveler, in his book is universal statistics the country;
Creedle on his word and you can save you work out of your closet,
but the most ignorant small and delicate details.

How could acquire as much news copy? An Argos not enough to see and feel both in such a short
time, and besides, how will know what happened there that has not been, is say, to hundreds
of miles to the right and left of the road, canal or river where traveling? See here. When to take
the first rays of the sun, at the door of the car, disperta there, and yawning, and stretching
will cast a glance over the country, which no longer resembles what it was last night, arranging
her legs crossed and the gentleman opposite, perhaps the following will be locked conversation
.-- V. the country knows this? - A little .-- The people that his name? - If I remember correctly is
N. - The main products of the country? - N .-- The industry? - N
.-- Character? - Phlegmatic as postilion .-- Wealth? - as Jews.

Meanwhile the car comes to the inn, the responses are perhaps up without saying goodbye; and
ignored reports of who they are, which include positive data from the notes the observer,
who will joke to say that what has been seen.

But as these resources are not sufficient and would leave too incomplete
description, collect carefully outlandish costumes, irregular buildings,
grotesque dances that have offered to step, and HEOS here a picture
of general practices that nothing will desired.

However, even there is another mine that will operate the passenger,
and where perhaps will draw the main treasure.

In newspapers and on the guidelines, found in great numbers news which need to form their statistical
data and pull away, ordering different, inserting something of what he has seen or heard or guessed,
it will be a whole which will be circulated as a result of the research work of the traveler,
and substance will no longer be for the most part, that stories of any and translations and
newspaper plagiarism and works.
In order not to miss the severity with which the authors try to travel
without so I propose to reduce the merit wherever he may be, suffice
to recall the follies and absurdities have published some foreigners
who have traveled in Spain. What we have to happened may well happen
to other peoples stand out well or badly, applauded with exaggeration,
or unjustly criticized, according to the humor, ideas, and other qualities
Thin the painter who was determined to take copies of originals that
had not seen.

§ III.

Way of studying a country.

Reason and experience
teach that concept to be fully a small region, and it can be described
as it is, under the material and moral aspect, it is necessary to
be familiar with the language, stay there long term, relationships
abound, being in continuous treatment without tired of asking and
observing. I do not think there is another means of acquiring accurate
news and be successful trial, the rest is beating in general, and
error-filled head and inaccuracies