 Ya, ya. Come and see God.

I am very natural. If I do not hold, apologize until she married. What I angry, is its lack of
candor. And it angers me, not you not think me and find me boyfriend who is more than enough
time and I have no haste, but it distracted her with her general I do not watch and let me monstrosity
entrusted to Dona Rita, that if it was his nanny, has more a tortoise
shells.

Fortunately, though I be wrong to say it, I'm so wise that neither
the mother's neglect nor the futile defense of Dona Rita can harm.

And notice that I've seen since I left three months ago the world in dangerous times.

If mom has its secrets and the hush, me too I have mine and I will not mention, using the reprisals.
My secret is a boyfriend ... and gorgeous.

Although a novice, I have not gone blind or have made any nonsense. And that I loved it from
I saw him the first time. What distinguished! How elegant! What a cute boy! And what friendly
without timidity or shrinking!

Whenever I went out with Dona Rita, church, ride, or to go friend's house, bang! unfailingly,
as if evoked, showing him and almost bumped us. And he looked at me with eyes ... Heavens, what
eyes! But she dared not speak.

I've never seen or dances, or chats, or in theaters. And yet, it's not cheesy: there is only
him to know that it is not. Be strangers, I said to myself. And noting it I know not what a pilgrim,
I figured it was not from any province, but rare-earth and perhaps remote.

This happened over a month, over a century for me, because I was tormented
by curiosity know who this mysterious being.

I was wandering anxious and fearful at the same time he spoke to me; so eager to find my taste,
and fearful because if he had spoken to me without knowing, without prior and proper presentation,
I would have to be attributed to poor parenting or lack of respect.

It seems providential that has happened. The sky has rewarded my piety and how much they wanted I
to my grandmother. Was a saint. But in the end, with some peccadilloes could go to another
world when he died two years ago. Maybe they are still in purgatory. Not too many, then, Masses
that say about his soul. Thinking in this way, just eight days ago
I went into the sacristy to entrust to the Father González twenty
Masses and paid for me from my nest egg. And who will think I met
you there? Then I found talking familiarly tracker Fr. I wanted to
wait from a distance to that conversation ended, and the Father saw
me and I said: What is offered to you, Miss Dona Manuela