 It enshrines the same
Tío Creeds were informed that a house at Bethlehem had been caught a board Carlist prisoners
and all those who were. If the political interest of the gatherings corderiles was in the news,
its refreshing depended on the grace and daring of Johnny James with its language said more than
half if I had all full, and you recite fables or romances, already been dispatched to taste with frasecillas
and observations of his own, was die laughing the whole family, except when he was by getting
angry, pouting and throwing at the head his brother's shoe, book, candle, ink or other deadly projectile.

The
store had been pierced by Lamb to another dealer, friend and relative,
and This trade was completely removed.

Its capital, if not great, solid as more so, assured him sound modest incomes. Had vast expansion
and improvement projects in Cigarrales, and did not expect it to clarify the time to move there
with all family.

In May boy was so improved that he thought his leg was now time to
end his hesitations.

It was a beautiful afternoon. They had concluded to eat in peace and grace. D. Benigno, leaving
Alelí fell asleep on the couch in the dining room and do what Crucita himself in his room, sent
the boys to school, and his fourth Sola, brought with it a conversation in which we must not
lose the point or comma.

- Dear Alone - he said - I have to give you explanations about an event that will surprise and
maybe (and this is what I most regret) will hurt his pride in you.

Sola expressed very great surprise.

- The fact is that, having resolved since I was in the House all the difficulties opposed to
our marriage, I have postponed several times since that time an event so flattering to me. As
you might suspect that these delays meant something reluctantly, coldness or little desire to be her
husband, and as nothing could be further from the true that the suspicion
of you, I have to explain to daughter, I have to reveal certain thoughts
intimate and certain little things .... You know what I mean?

With his verbosity indicated the hero be so full of his subject, as
they say speakers and probably the night before had prepared on his
head and even built some of the phrases in that memorable speech.

-
Well, the cause of this in a hurry ... darémosle this name, which
is the one you block ... has been some doubt that I was assaulted,
some fear that our marriage did you make it miserable rather than
happy, as I wish.

- Unfortunately - Sola said, getting that idea
as an insult.

- Oh! no hurry ... take much to say.

These scruples and fears do not concern anything that might undermine the extraordinary merits of
which I chose for a wife; are pure thing and mine alone. It is time to speak with complete
frankness, and not conceal any idea however painful it is for me.

Well, there is a person, a man, daughter mine, that you appreciate
how much it's worth, who knows you from childhood, which has been
protected, he loves, he loves, a man that maybe, why not? you are
loved .... Ah!

Sola dear, my dear, I seem to have put his finger on an old wound that heart no par, made to
endure and suffer as any .... In his face you see ....

She had been pale as if he had to face a mask of wax, and looked at his apron, whose tip was between
the toes.

- This pale - said D. Benigno moved - does not in any way that you have to repent anything, it is
not about fault, indicates that I have aroused a feeling that slept,
Is not it?

Sola's pallor vanished like a veil is torn revealing the clarity that conceals and so, by how similar
the sharp pull back a curtain, as was kindled in her a vivid blush. Leaning to mourn, whispered
these words:

- It's true, yes sir. You are kinder than the angels.

Botero The medium was silent for a while contemplating.

- But I have not failed, I have not lied ...-- stammered Mrs. Monda between Sola and sigh and sigh -.
What you say, was killed and buried in my heart for ever DNR.

- I know, I know - no less upset Lamb said that her friend -. Oh! that voice, that voice soft
and a little sad that he spoke here in my conscience was telling me how nice! Well hear you
all. At this time that has passed since I came to the farm, you can say no I lived but to think
about this and make comparisons. Yes, I have lived comparing me, dear daughter, lived tormented
by a comparative analysis of the qualities that I have and which meets the man whom you know better
than me, being that he is extraordinarily than me.

- Oh! no, a hundred
times no - Sola said forcefully -.

Quite the contrary.

- Non-violent nature, my daughter nonviolent nor logic. Granted that honesty and moral qualities
not outdo me, although there is no reason not to admit that I equals, but instead, how big his
superiority on the outside and attractions of the person! ... Claritas things .... Eh? ... Why
not be said that he is a man captivating, a man who awakens sympathy
in all that he is, while I ...?

- You too, you too - Sola said promptly.

D. Benigno shook his head in sad gesture.

- Non-violent nature, darling, nonviolent logic - repeated -. I concede that no I totally dislike
it, but you, that feels and runs very well, you can tell if there nothing in the person and the
soul of an old man can compete with the youth, his face joyful and expressive of a healthy man
in the prime of his affections, his strength, his whole life.

- Depending on how you look, depending on how you look - Sola said
taken out of compassion for his friend and eager to give all the advantages.

-
Oh! - Said D. Benigno smiling - even though you strive to give me
flowers, do not get I enfatúe me or I obceque to the point of not
seeing clearly what I am.

Old age has its pre-eminence, has its beauties, but these eminences and these beauties are not of great
value if we try. I know well, or I do not I take even a ounce of what really weight placed on
the balance of marriage, I do not think I lack some qualities that would make me appreciate and
respect and even love of a young woman, but the Compared to other shows me my age, who are
not considered for the case loose, I revealed my ailments, which have started right now as a
warning, a warning that God me through nature. In short, my dear, if you try any strange any
upstart that this time is present, or by thought I would you may prefer to me, but alas! this
is an old friendship, affection old and old it on you .... You have shown me, telling me with
the accent noble and fair, "is true, is true."

- True - Sola said - and now, it is not in my heart or even a fund of the secrets that have
kept it for so very long, I will confess to you .... In front of a priest before God Himself
would not be sincere, you believe me .... If not previously mentioned
this was because I wanted to see it as something dead and buried.

Thought that the more you shut up and think least, the greater the forgetting, and I dared
not confess, for fear that the confession was reborn and torment me again.

He was sitting on a low chair, his arms touched the venerable hero's knees. Who would not see
it up close, believe he was on his knees.

- Much of what you have so eagerly silent, for their commitment to hush and more land on a
feeling miserable - Lamb said - he showed me.

- There will be told you that I picked up my father's death, putting
the defense of his mother, and looking at me as a sister.

If boasted of its benefits did well, because these were great at that time.

- Do not brag.

Go ahead.

- I would also say that I watched as a sister and served as a slave.

His will I found something that could not be doubted, his words as
gospel.

- Does he?

...

- Go easy on me, but ....

- Did not love you more than the brother?

- No more, but that affection comforted me in my sadness.

- I have
thought that was pretty skull and had an affair with some .... But
did you ever ...?

- Never - Sola said naively - I wanted other women,
but I do not want.

D. Benigno smiled.

- But you - he said - he wanted to since then?

...

- I am ashamed to say - said Sola - snubbed by the role I played, but making a confession, I do
not hide anything.

I wanted to, yes, very much.

- How?

- Everything you love a person
- she said, bowing his head, which weighed, no doubt, by an extraordinary
agglomeration of memories.

Cordero felt a lump in his throat.

Swallowing needed something to remove that obstacle and power say

-
And always the same?

- I always wanted the same thing and thought
only of him, all the time, asleep and awake.

- And when I was away?

-
I wanted more.

- And when he returned?

- More.

It was something greater than myself, a kind of sickness or misfortune that God sent me.

- Did not you tried to get rid of this torment, thinking of another?

- In another man! - Sola said as horrified -.

That does not, that was impossible .... What I felt that torment me I needed to live, like
air and light.

- You never showed her actions and words the very large crowd that
had?

- Oh! no .... Sometimes I was crazy projects and I figured I
do not know what means make him understand, but then I was very embarrassed.

-
What horrific torment!

What agony!

- Almost always, yes, but sometimes I was happy.

- How, child?

-
Thinking nonsense ... and giving me a reason that suddenly seemed
to him as loving I loved him.

- Oh! barástolis - said D. Benigno,
clenching his fist threateningly - for life .... I angry with that
man, and well deserved .... you despise If you come to me then and
tell me what's wrong, as he tells me now, I swear to you that right
this man and lame, and I say, 'Look here, sir ...».

One could not help but laugh a little, and said:

- I did not hurt you more than to be my worst enemy.

Yes ... I took it with little tenacity .... I realize now that was very extreme and I myself
heating up the imagination night and day, or when adding fuel to a fire that is afraid to see off. Since
there was no whom I could tell such things, I would count myself. I consoled me saying nonsense
and resigned, as the many misfortunes that I had since childhood and always me Private everything
else I wanted, I got used to a lot of patience, a lot. It's a comfort a little sad that the patient,
but using it much, for loving one concludes and become familiar with it .... I was ... to my
happiness, yes sir, joy in my way, because what would be relieved if our media had not ever take itself
that the outsiders do not want to give! ... In short, sir, time went on, passing his absence, I
hopeless. I think that the days were like veils to be running slowly, one on another, and these
veils fell upon my memory, and gradually died down and obscuring what was in it. After some
time I began to see ... and the mist away; and occupations, all I thought was discontinued
to make room for other things. Sometimes lost abruptly lost ground, I mean, that because of
some dream, some conversation that reminded me of things past, or anything, my simplicity, again
to feel atormentadísima, and it seemed to have him front and hear you, always so loving, always
so good, but always brother! ... In short, those relapses ... because they were such as relapse
a disease ... went well. I felt I was falling on that land, and if I have to tell the truth, I
threw one handful, sometimes praying, sometimes working too .... Ay! I was triumphant at last, and
if I could avail myself of an odd expression ....

- So, tell you that odd expression, darling gravedigger.

- Well I will say that lately I walked on the huge mound that I had
missed penalties on those buried .... Sometimes it was not safe, because
I felt that was moving under my feet the earth ... but I should be
brave enough, was hit with feet and everything was so quiet .... Do
you see what nonsense?

...

- Follow you - Lamb said, his voice quivering -. Parallel I wonder.

- As in these and other things, I came to know a person who told me
much interest, much consideration .... I did not know how to pay,
and said: "It is unfortunate for me not to have something valuable
to offer this generous man.

" How far was then assume that my generous man, my second father had wanted to take its benefits
in a way that made me more to gratitude! I worked at home, would have liked multiply the obligations
to enslave more. I understood .... God and my misfortunes have given me some insight ... I
realized that my friend had found this poor some merit, and was not happy with me to be his maidservant,
nor his pupil, nor his daughter wanted to take his generosity to such an extent .... Gratitude
filled my heart, what joy causes me to thank and to pay, even with little! ... I then accepted
the favors of my protector, and I thought I should do everything possible deserve the immense
good that the man wanted me. Ay! how he fought then tear what still remained of the past ....
There was still something, deny it would be a lie. My good protector took possession of my soul in a sweet
and slow. I got to get used to your company so that if I was missing, faltaríame main thing
in life. The idea of ??being his wife stuck on me, took root, and then I promised him without
scruple and with clear conscience. My heart was conquered by me, could be offered to anyone who
deserved better. What best owner could wish that this man can not be beaten, for whom I felt
gratitude well a love so great, so great I do not know how to express it?

D. Benigno did the impossible to prevent the tears out of their eyes and he looked the bed, while
meeting with his whole soul to which Sola said, and stretched muscles of his face, and finally
to tears wanting to put docks make sympathetic laughter. Finally, emotion overcame her dignity
and her hand to her eyes.

- I acknowledge with pleasure, with great gusto - said talking to embarrassment, but no tears
- that you accept my offerings has made loyalty ... yes, my lady, I admit ... I am grateful ...
I'm not worth anything ... acknowledge that you, answer yes to my
prayers, threw the last handful of earth on a sad past, offered me
their love and I devoted his whole person, their future ... I would
appreciate ... but, but ... then changed things are suddenly introduced
to you one on whom had fallen so dearly earth ....

- No - Sola said
strongly, rising -.

Nothing can change my resolution. When appeared, I no longer belonged to me. I feel so bound by my
word before and after that visit, and should not, nor do I want ... and I repeat, go back.

- It is possible that the presence of this man what would you indifferent.

- Indifferent not, but who has fought so hard and so has expired, could not in any way compromise
victory.

I'm the same now as when I first went to Cigarrales to pass best days of my life .... No doubt
about it you will be my offense. I whole body and soul of this orphan looked lonely and abandoned
and had the incomparable generosity of wanting to make his wife.

Sola firm attitude, energy and loyalty in his face was painted like adequate expression of his own beautiful
soul had overcome the good Cordero of admiration, gratitude, enthusiasm and love.

- One word - he said - one question I want to do. What you say is for me as a statement down
from heaven and will believe as you believe in God .... A little
word nothing more.

We are two, two men, one young and full of life and health, excellent presence, Clear, rich,
honest, with many items that will enhance the imagination of both learned to love a child,
the other old, sick, heavy ....

- Heavy no - cried single protest in the heat.

- Well, let's take it from heavy ... sick, ugly ....

- In men there is no ugliness.

- Sick - Lamb continued counting on his fingers - homely, short-sighted,
honest yes, like the first, a good heart .... Finally, I object.

They both want to marry such a Sola, and this seems to comedy. A word to the lady is going to
decide the issue, Which of the two I want a husband?

Oh! who have brush to paint this ray of truth shone supreme in the
eyes Sola, the gesture of heroin with which his hand on his chest
and eyes raised to heaven, beautiful for the truth, so sublime self-sacrifice
was at the bottom of that truth, and who could express his accent
when he spoke these words:

- As God is my heavenly father, so I really
want to marry the man!

D. Benigno had not embraced ever. That day the first embraced, and that embrace was worth a thousand.

-X-

The
father had Alelí, historian forgetful and senile, that night was
D. Benign for six hours straight without leaving your seat, staring
at the tips of foot, and fist on the cheek, and this was added, the
duration of his ecstasy, musing or drowsiness, that attitude that
leaving joints had marked in red cheeks of his face, and elbow had
left a very deep hole in the bearing arm of the chair.

But our good criterion allows us to blindly support this version,
and thus reduce three to six hours of talks Alelí, which, as Herodotus
was much inclined to exaggerate and proportions to what he saw.

It would be better still, reduce to one hour only within perplexity that our dear Lord, and
we will.

Record, then, that long-pondered while, and then appeared as self-absorbed
and full of confusion.

Is not had dissipated misgivings? Certainly not. In his spirit can only say that once looked very
happy as very sad.

Early next day, after a dream or deep or long, rose, and dispatching hurried breakfast, and
went straight out looking for a guy who lived on the street Duke of Alba, along with D. Very
happy. He was unlucky day for Botero, because the individual who had sought out earlier than
usual, leaving that to servants who did not wait in all day.

- Barástolis Barástolis and more! I could have waited a bit.

- If you arrive five minutes before - said the man - he was just down the stairs.

- Five minutes .... And how he had arrived five minutes before the man of God? Do not you see I'm lame?
... Do not you see?

- Do not bother you, sir.

- Malaventurados the lame - the hero said to himself sadly - because
they always came late!

Mr. D. who Benigno looked so hard was not far from home.

If Lamb instead of going back to the Merced and Calle Carretas with
the intention of finding him, had San Millán and continued to Street
Studios, would have found insurance.

Was compared a door of that street, staring at a man in a large pot, a coffee table brass covered
in a huge pot of dough and on a hook.

In the cauldron that was huge, bellied black and a medium yellow sea boiled with bubbles that
appeared drops of amber dancing on a gold surface.