 Rafael begged quietly; crawl boldly
begged him misfortune. Should leave alone, then later and would, seek opportunity to be seen,
perhaps it could be in Madrid, when the courts open was there alone, she would sing at the Royal
free if necessary.

But Rafael writhed angrily against his resistance. Do not see it! Take months and months in mortal wait!
Just one night without feeling your body confused with yours, would
despair.

Would eventually be given to the mortal sadness Macchia, it would shoot as the Italian poet.

And
he said it with conviction, looking at the floor with wild eyes,
as if seen already on the floor, lifeless, bloodied, with the gun
in right hand clenched.

- Oh, no! Horror!

Rafael! Rafael mine! - Leonora groaned, hugging his neck, hanging him, shaken by the bloody sight.

The
lover continued to protest. He was free.

If married, if I left after escaping a woman to cry betrayal, children being called in vain,
yet understand that resistance; the reluctance of a good heart who will not leave your love behind
it the curse of a dispersed family. But who left in their flight? On his mother only to be consoled
knowing that soon he was healthy and was happy. His mother, who objected to the blind maternal
love that does not want to find love rivalries and jealousies hinders child sometimes happiness.
The evil which would result in following her she would not be irreparable. Flee together,
walk about his love for the world.

And Leonora, head down, he repeated feebly

- No, I am determined.

Parting morning alone. I have no strength to face the hatred of a mother.

Rafael was angry.

- Then I do not love me. You're tired of me. Want to lift the wings drives you madness of the
past, want to fly again for your world crazy.

The artist fixed her large eyes dim with tears. His gaze was tenderness and pity.

- Tired of you! ... When ever I felt so sad as tonight! ... Think I crave my old life, and away
I feel the same as entry into a place of torment ... Alas, my master, my soul ... You do not
understand where I have never before in my love.

- What, then?

And in his irresistible urge to tell everything, not to forgive the story of any of the dangers which
should come after the separation, Rafael spoke of his mother, what would happen to be alone with
her mired in the monotony of the city. Did she think it was all love
in the indignant opposition from his mother?

I wanted, it was her only child, but his calculations went much ambition,
that desire for the aggrandizement of the house, which had occupied
their whole existence. I had intended, without consulting his wishes,
to serve as a hostage in the alliance pondered with a large fortune.
I wanted to marry him: and if she was leaving, if it looked lonely,
abandoned, sadness and the time that everything may bite her will,
to make him fall inert, giving as a victim that stunning does not
cover the importance of sacrifice.

She listened trembling, with eyes
wide with terror