 But you were young and had a long time and
much land in front, I old and very few fantasies in your head, and no leftover heat in the mass
of blood made many years after one of their own, and yesterday morning, as they say, a bit of anything,
a drink of milk more than the usual, the air a door, gives flight of a mosquito, my mayor
in bed. It took me out of it, and went to enter the tomb. The oak tree was swaying as if it
needed the land that held, or she will take off from the roots, or could not with the weight
of its own branches. And give me the uphill Anseo just look at them, and gladly hand the vent
yesterday implement or the ax with which I amused and the arable land in the dense forest, Today
I asked the paluco the cripple, as the strut supporting the jastial cracked, and Worse than
this, that the mind is singing along with the bones that and hastily and can no longer with
the skin. In short, man, that in no time, and when least expected, say the slump that was to give
later or earlier. Is that the land law which call is yours, and I do not cease to call a few days
ago. Do not be afraid to say that, properly fear, the disturbance which is not silent day or
night, but it's true that at this time would accompanied me more than I see on the solitude
in which I am. Soledad say, because to be all things to these places at the point where it always
was, and being this good people what they always were for me now is that I have lust for something
that gets me deeper than this, through what it is and know where to walk. Yeah, man, yes you of
knowing you that all the law I had my children, and mother and your father and mine, and that
for many years has been as if asleep in the depths of the heart, I was awakened suddenly, aged
in his hunger priming the only meat from our own you know: you, so you know at once. Because
your sister, the distance is from us, is for the case as if no longer alive, and I do not want
to breed our two sobrinazos seconds mine, by my mother, two degustation bigardones bad and
worse to live. Not long ago down from his people asking me "something", at this hour and in such
terms that I had to give the "God you for protection" with the shotgun lying in the face. First and
only time I've seen.

"For good and for a finishing touch to the way that I bring and I'm
tired: I think if we encourage you and give me the gift of your company
in this house, the cry of the earth, I would be more bearable.

There is nothing more to do tempt among these solitary crags, you who are seasoned the buttocks
and gifts of the court, but to everything men do when they insist on it, without also relevant here
is its sun, and although it is true that it takes a little in the morning in transposing the peaks
that surround the place, and lights up once warms and gladdens the soul like the sun more friendly
of any party. In addition, your exile could not last long for reasons that I know, and last
settlement, to leave it in could not resist as he was finishing the story for you.

'Item more: I have certain plans in the Magin, they give me much to do. What man walks free them
for me?

I have no heirs and no longer have at home something to throw losing my own membership, something
that will go God knows where, if my last and rearward no mole at sight with a being that makes
me a little tingling in interlinings of the heart.

"Of course, I do not try to turn on your lust with these hints.
