 If they repeated
these things so annoying, please do not return, I will always be your friend, but not seeing, you and
I will win.

Rafael was embarrassed to see that Leonora knew their secrets.

It was thought a fool, and passed out of said smugly:

- Do not think such things are enemies gossip. I am of age, and I suppose Mom unafraid I can
go where I please.

- Be well, keep coming, as this is your taste, but you can not deny that there is against me any overt
hostility. And if I came to love, my God! What I would say then? Believe that he had come only
to seduce Don Rafael, and now you see how far I it.

This would lose the peace that I like. If you speak against me now
just imagine what would be then!

... No, I want to stay still. Bite me all they want but that is no reason, out of sheer envy.
You see, if I do.

And looking toward the spot where the city was hidden behind the rows of orange and laughed scornfully.

Frankness
that became joyful again, which she made herself the first victim, and continued lowering his voice
with his accent sensitive and loving:

- And then, Rafaelito, you have not set well with me. If I am almost an old! ... I know; I do
not need the warning are the same age, but the sex difference and increase life mine significantly.
You are male and almost starts now to live. I go from sixteen years rolling around the world,
from stage to stage, and this damn character, this desire do not hide anything, not to lie,
it has helped me worse than I am.

I have in the world with many enemies believe these happy times with my inexplicable disappearance.
In our life as artists is impossible to advance a step without arousing
the hatred of comrade the most implacable of the passions.

And do you know what they say about me these good people? Well I'm a gallant woman rather
than an artist, a kind of courtesan who sings and is displayed on the stage as a showcase.

- This is an outrage - Rafael said arrogantly .-- I should say that ever before me.

- Bah! Do not be a child. It will be a shame, but not entirely without merit. I been something
of what they say, but men account for more blame than me ... I've been an unchecked in my crazy
whim, leaving sometimes tempted by the splendor of wealth, other for the beauty or value,
fleeing as soon as I became convinced that there was no to find anything new, no matter the
desperation of men to see their dream interrupted.

And all this mad rush, desperate to some, maddening to others, upsetting
life in many parts of Europe, I've taken a consequence, or that the
poets call love exists and is an invention agreeable, or I was not
born to love and I'm immune because that after a hectic life, when
I collect the past, I admit that my heart felt really ... or this.

And he snapped between the teeth and sharp rosy nail of his thumb.

- You say it all - continued .-- After a long absence, in which I
ever I remembered you, I wish that I know well and forever.

Let's see if we live alone.

I understand that these good women crave confession of gardens, ranging in looking for the priest
walking in the sun or rain. This afternoon I need to say everything. I have here in a little
devil who pushes and pushes to throw out all my past.

- Well, you talk. If I am your confessor and deserve your trust, something going forward.

- What do you want to advance in my heart if it is empty? Do you think that would make a great
thing conquerors? If I am worthless! Would not you: I am worthless. Here in this solitude, I
can examine carefully and I admit it: nothing. Is the physical? ... yes I confess I am not
ugly, and though he modestly refuses to ridiculous, there's my story, to prove that I liked much.
But alas, Rafaelito! That is the exterior, the facade, and with a few winters it will rain
on unpainted and full of cracks. But inwardly believe me, I'm a wreck. With so many festivals
and fall riots partitions, floors swaying. I have run very fast, I've burned the wings for him
headfirst into the flame of life. Do you know what I am? One of these old boats, falls on the
beach, view from afar still retain the color of his first trips, but only ask for you age oblivion
and rotting in the sand. And you start now, there comes to a position in carrion dangerous
waves returning to the fund raising it to perish? ... Rafael, my
friend My, do not be silly.

I'm good friend, I can no longer be ... even though you love her. We are a different breed. I
have studied you and see that it is wise, honest and shy. I I am of the breed of crazy, imbalanced,
I enlisted under the banner forever of Bohemia, and I can not desert.

Every man his way. You will easily find a woman makes him happy ... The more stupid the better
... You were born to a parent.

Rafael thought he was mocking him as usual. But no, his accent was sincere, her face was not made
by the wry smile, spoke tenderly, as admonishing a child following crooked paths.

- Whether you like it. If the world was composed of people like me life would be impossible. Also
I have my moments when I long to be transfigured, poultry be like everyone else around me.
Think about money and what they will eat tomorrow, buy land, discuss the farmers, fertilizer study,
having children that worry me with their colds and shoes that break, do not take my worldly aspirations
beyond selling good harvest. There are times that would be chicken. Great! A fence of reeds
around the world, affordable food peak, and spend hours and hours in the sun, still on a cane
... You laugh? For this life I have begun to try it and it's going very well. I go every Wednesday
to market, buy chickens and eggs, argue for fun with the vendors to stop giving them what they
ask for invites chocolate in the orchard of this outline, and come home escorted by all of
them that are admired to hear me talk to Beppa in a strange language. If you see me want! ...
In his eyes I read the awe SEÑORET recognize that it is not as bad as say the city. Do you
remember the poor gardener sick that we saw in the chapel later? He comes here often and always
give something. Also that I want ... All this is very nice, right? Peace, love of the humble;
an innocent elderly, poor aunt, who seems to have rejuvenated having me here. However, any day
this crust paperback, formed by the sun and the air of the orchards, is broken into pieces and
re- appear in every age, the Valkyrie.

A horse soon! A gallop over the world, in the whirlwind of pleasure, acclaimed by the choir of
desire brutal! ... I feel that this going to happen.

Until the spring I have sworn to be here and we start to flutter on the ground. Look at these roses,
look at those orange ... Ay! I'm afraid the spring has always been Station fatal for me.

He was pensive a few minutes. Doña Pepa and the Italian had gone into the house. Good old could
not spend much time away from the kitchen.

Leonora had dropped her work on the bench and looked at the top, marking the soft curve tense
your throat.

He seemed lost in a trance, as if pass before his eyes the vision the past. Suddenly he rose with
a shudder.

- I think I'm sick, Rafael.

I do not know what I have today. Perhaps the strangeness of him, to follow conversation that evokes my
past after months of quiet ... Do not speak, not say anything, please.

You have the rare ability to unwittingly make me talk, to remind I
want to have forgotten ... Come on, give me your arm, Let's walk through
the garden: this me good.

"

Leonora stood up leaning on the arm of Rafael, and began to walk along the broad avenue leading to
the plaza from the gate. Moving away from the house, and the dense canopy of orange trees,
the artist smiled mischievously, waving a hand in the attitude threat.

- I hope you will come back from your trip more serious and respectful. No play and daring, Huh?
You know I'm strong and how spending.

II

All night he Rafael awake and turning in bed.

Supporters had been treated to a serenade until after midnight. The most notable were shown
to have been offended by the whole evening at the casino waiting
in vain for the deputy.

It appeared there at dusk and again after shaking hands and answering greetings as in the morning,
went home without daring to lift his head at his mother.

He was afraid of those angry eyes, where it could probably read the
story of how had done for the evening, but also cherished the purpose
to disobey his mother, opposing his energy glacial resistance.

Just finished the serenade, got into his room, avoiding any explanation Dona Bernarda.

Sunk into the bed and turned off the light, I felt an intense pleasure remembering what happened
that afternoon. Travel fatigue, poor night spent in the car, gave no sleep and with open eyes
in the dark was reconstituting what the artist had told late walking in the garden. It was
almost the whole story of his life, confessed in disarray as driven by the desire to unload on someone
your secret, with gaps and jumps Rafael filled out by efforts of imagination.

The memories of his trip to Italy he returned to live and dormant, and cooled by Leonora's revelations.

He
saw the thick dark Victor Emmanuel Gallery, Milan, with its huge
triumphal arch giant mouth that seems to swallow the cathedral, the
Duomo, which stands a few steps, crowned by a forest of statues and
pierced needles.

The double gallery cut in a cross, with its walls covered with columns, perforated four rows
of windows supporting the great glass roof. Lower floors, almost no outer wall, all glass,
windows of bookstores and music stores, windows cafes and pubs, shops, jewelers and tailors luxury
dazzling.

At one end of the Duomo, the other a monument to Leonardo da Vinci, and the famous La Scala Theater:
and the four arms of the Gallery, a continuous movement of people, an incessant going and coming
groups which merge and separate, of hands that shake, shouting that express the surprise of recognition,
quadruple avalanche flowing into the center of the cross, the Replaces where coffee Biffi, known
in all theaters of the world, extending its rows of little tables marble. The steps sound in the
galleries as an immense cloister, the screams are confused and high glass skylight seems throbbing
with the hum of human ants down stirred day and night.

There is the market for artists, the auction of music, voices recruiter flag. From there go for
glory or for the hospital all day, played a throat recognizing that they had something, and dropped
the needle, or pen tool, running Milan from all corners of the world. They gather to digest
the macaroni trattoria hoping the world will see justice done, planting of millions the path of
his life, all art unhappy recruits: those who start, and to enter into the glory seeking a contract
in any municipal puppet theater of the Milanese and loose in the
weekly the town, sent home to friends and relatives believe their
greatest triumphs.

And mixed with them, overwhelmed with the importance of their past, veterans of the art which to the delight
of almost missing a generation: tenors with gray hair and teeth false, old forts and arrogant
and hollow coughing voice to show that still retain the sound of the baritone, people put
their savings in motion, with the Italian stinginess comparable only to the greed of the Jews
and lends money or open shop after silks and velvets dragged on stage.

The two dozen eminent universal singing on the first theaters in the world, go through the same
rumor Gallery arouse admiration for kings when left view of their subjects. The pariahs of art,
always waiting for hire, welcome to worship and talk about the castle of Lake Como bought by
the great tenor, of the dazzling jewelry the eminent soprano, as
funny with his hat placed the acclaimed baritone and his words of
admiration is a taste of bitterness against destiny, a shock envy,
the conviction to be as worthy as them in such splendor, the protest
against bad luck to which they attribute their misfortune.

Hope flutters before them, dazzled by the reflection of his golden scales, keeping the passivity
of the hungry miserable waiting and not knowing certainly trust where reach the glory and wealth.
And between these groups of youth that is consumed in the impotence, perhaps destined to die
standing in the gallery, about often and light step another fold of the chimera with the girls
under his arm Spartite will house teachers, blond and skinny English girl who want to be light
sopranos; Russian plump peliblancas that greet with a gesture of dramatic soprano; Spanish look of
bold and courageous garbo preparing to be on stage Bizet's cigarette, birds and sound frivolous
the nest with many hundreds of miles and took flight dazzled by the glasses of glory.

At the end of Carnival season, appearing in the gallery artists who
have passed Winter in major theaters around the world.

They come from London, St. Petersburg, New York or Melbourne in search of new contracts, have
run the globe with indifference which everybody has at home, have spent a week on the train or
months in the steam to return to his corner of the gallery, but the journey they have been
renovated, resuming tangles, backbiting and envy, as if they had
left there the previous day.

They are grouped to the large windows with air of disdain, like princes who go undercover and
do not know hide its high origin of the thunderous ovations speaking, public taxed by exotic exhibit
welcomes children, brightly in the fingers and tie, with studied suggest reserve outbursts of
large ladies who love crazy wanted to follow Milan exaggerate amounts won on his journey and frown
haughtily when some unfortunate comrade asked for a drink in the coffee immediately Biffi.

And when they get new contracts, the mercenary nightingales again up flight indifferent, no
matter where they go, and new trains and steamers distribute throughout the land with its absurdities
and foibles to pick them up months later and return to the Gallery, its legitimate house,
the fixed scenario in which they have to drag their old age.

Meanwhile, the outcasts, those who never reach the Bohemians of Milan, to be alone, they comfort
speaking ill of fellow celebrities, lie that no contracts have been offered, irreducible feign
arrogance with entrepreneurs and composers, to justify their inaction;
Garibaldi and the filter in the neck, clad in Russian that almost
sweeps the floor, roll Biffi tables defying the cold gale blowing
at the crossing of the Gallery, talk and talk to distract the hunger
that bites them guts, and despising the ordinary working of those
who earn their bread with their hands, are undaunted in their misery,
satisfied with their as artists, making the face of misfortune with
a candor and a strong will that move, lit by Hope, who accompanies
them to the last moment to close your eyes.

Rafael remembered this strange world, seen slightly in the few days
that remained Milan.

His companion, the canon had found there an old boy of the cathedral choir Valencia, without
another job now that the clock be planted in the gallery. With him Brull had met the lives of
those laborers of art, always standing in the market waiting for the love that never comes.

He
imagined the adolescence of Leonora in that great city, as part of innumerable Girls flock of
trotting gracefully along the sidewalks with the score under your arm or encourages the narrow
alleys with its trills and coos at through the windows.

He saw through the Gallery at Doctor Moreno's side: she blond, skinny,
angular, with an exaggerated imbalance of growth, looking surprised
with his big eyes that green cold and tumultuous city so different
from the warm gardens of her childhood, the father, bearded, frowning,
energetic, still irritated by the failure of their beloved beliefs,
a frightful ogre for those who did not know his childlike simplicity.

The two walked as exiles who had found refuge in art stirred in the void of that life, including
greedy teachers who wanted to prolong indefinitely the teaching and unable artists While talking
to themselves.

They lived on the fourth floor of the track Passarella, narrow, dark and high walls, as streets of
old Alcira; an alley inhabited by music publishers, theatrical agencies and retired artists.
The goalkeeper was a former choir performed, the principal was busy by an agency under the sun
where there was no other than voices put to the test, the other floors of living singers out
of bed to start exercising throat shaking the house from the roof of the cave like a music box.
He and his daughter occupied two rooms in the house of a former dancer who had achieved great
love wins in the major courts of Europe, and was now a shriveled
skeleton, walking almost blindly through the halls, engaging the nuanced
greedy disputes raised with oaths of road, no other traces of its
past that crisp silk suits and the diamonds, emeralds and pearls in
her ears were being replaced stilted.

Leonora wanted to cripple the affection of the recruits entering rows. Every day Dr. Moreno was
going to a café in the gallery, which was a gathering of old musicians who had fought under
the command of Garibaldi, and young people who wrote scripts for the stage and articles in newspapers
and socialist Republicans. That was his world: the only thing made him sympathetic his stay in Milan.
After their isolation at home down there, It seemed a paradise that corner of the smoky cafe,
where Italian Job, nuanced of Spanish interjections, he could talk of Beethoven and the hero
of Marsala, and remained hours in delicious ecstasy, seeing through the dense atmosphere and the
red shirt the blond hair and graying of the great Giuseppe while
his companions recount the exploits the most romantic of the warlords.

When he was in the cafe, Leonora remained in the care of the landlady, and shy child, shrunken and
amazed, spending hours in the lounge of the former dancer, surrounded by the friends of it, ruins
of the past, ardent worship of great lords who had many years rotting earth, witches scorched
by love watching every moment her showy jewelry, and fearing to be
stolen, and cigarette smoking were gazing at the small, discussing
her beauty, prophesying that he would go very far if you knew how
to live.

- I had excellent teachers - Leonora said, recalling that
period of his youth .-- They were good in the background, but with
them there was nothing left to learn.

Can not remember when I opened my eyes. I I have not ever been innocent.

Some nights the doctor had to coffee gatherings or the upper gallery
of the Scala if a musician gave him tickets.

This was getting to know the friends of his father that bohemia in which the music was always
linked to an ideal of European revolution, jumble artists and conspirators, old teachers bald,
myopic, their backs bent by a lifetime of tilting at the lectern, young brown-eyed grilled with
bristling manes and red tie, talking to destroy the society, making it responsible for his
opera were not admitted to the Scala or that any great teacher would take a look at their lyrical
dramas. One of them caught the attention of Leonora. I watched for hours sunk coffee on the
couch, almost hidden by the arms, always moving, his father. Was a extremely thin young blonde.
Its narrow goatee and long hair covered by fine the excessive felt, remembered Leonora the Charles
I, painted by Van Dik and seen by her artwork.