 

And speaking of that authority, with firm conviction, respecting it as necessary, after of having
violated many times in the rough adventures of his youth.

Salvatierra and old came out of the courtyard between the barking
of dogs, following the outside wall and came to a shed which gave
entrance to the Gañanía.

Under that lined the outside several jars with water supply for the braceros. Those who felt thirsty,
passing the stifling heat of chill Gañanía the night, and a dock
that looked like liquid ice water, the wind struck them sweaty backs.

Upon crossing the door, Salvatierra felt in his lungs the rarity of the air, while struck his
smell a stench of damp wool, rancid oil, clay and conglomerate, slimy flesh.

It was a long narrow piece, which seemed even bigger by the dense atmosphere and lack of light.
In the background was the home, which burned a fire of dried cow
dung, firing a foul odor.

A candle flame as a mark his red and shimmering tear in this environment nebulous. The rest
of the room, completely dark, was in darkness palpitations of life. Guessed the presence of
a crowd under the shroud of shadows.

Salvatierra, to reach the center of the miserable room could see better.

At home boiled monitored several pots made by women on their knees, and sat under the lamp the aerator,
the second officer of the house, which accompanied the laborers to cut and watched their tasks,
exciting with tough words which together with the overseer was what the government called the
farmhands farmhouse.

The herder was the only one who had a chair in the Gañanía, others, men and women would eat on
the ground. Beside him crouched Manolo Trebujena with friends, getting their spoons in hot soup
screw. The fog was dissipating in the eyes of Salvatierra, already accustomed to this atmosphere
stifling.

Then he saw in the corner groups of men and women sitting in the packed earth or rush mats.
Rain, cutting its work by mid-afternoon, they had done to advance the evening meal. About the
bowls of hot slop, talking and laughing moving spoons with some calm. Sensed that the next
day would be closure, forced idleness, and wished to remain awake late into the night.

The appearance of the Gañanía crowding of people, evoked the memory
of Salvatierra the memory of the prison.

They whitewashed walls, but here less white, smoked by the fuel vapor animal foul, oozing fat
by the continuous rubbing of unwashed bodies. Same hooks on the walls, and hanging from them
all the regalia of poverty, knapsacks, blankets, mattresses gutted, colorful blouses, hats dirty shoes
countless heavy patches with sharp nails.

In prison, each had a backpack, and the Gañanía only very few could
afford this luxury.

Most were sleeping on mats, without undressing, resting his aching bones work on hard ground. Bread,
cruel divinity forced to accept the existence miserable, rolled in
pieces on the floor, or are exhibited in the hooks, among the rags,
in huge teleras six pounds, as an idol who could be reached only after
a curvature day overwhelming.

Salvatierra was fixed on the faces of those people who watched him with curiosity, suspending for
an instant food, still holding hands with the spoon in the air.

Under the hats were deformed only covers misery, suffering and masks hunger. Young people had
the vigorous freshness few years. Laughed reflecting their eyes mocking spirit of the race,
the joy of living, without the burden of a family rejoicing the isolated
man, which is considered miserable, you can always move forward.

But men showed premature aging, broke into full maturity, the trembling of valetudinarians, revealing
about his aggressiveness in the eyes enlivened by flashes phosphorescent fierce, cramped with the
resignation other than just waiting for death the only freedom.

Bodies were dried, shriveled, annealed by the sun, cracked skin. Food, poor and weak, does not become
the slightest padding between the skeleton and its envelope. Men who had not yet forty years,
showed their emaciated necks, flabby skin and puffed, strained tendons with aging. The eyes, in
the depths of basin, surrounded by an aura of wrinkles, shining like stars fading in the background
a well. Their physical misery was the result of prolonged fatigue and over years, bland diet
of bread, just bread. The bodies seemed carved rough and angular an ax, others were deformed
and grotesque as being produced by a potter, many remembered, so twisted and gnarled trunks,
wild olive trees in the pastures. The black arms, with the sharp
ridges of a forced gym, looked like twisted branches.

Y stacking of these unhappy exhaled a pungent odor of sweat of the hungry, clothing attached
to the body for months, fetid breath, every breath apestante of misery.

The women even offered a more painful. Some were gypsies, old and ugly as witches, with tanned
skin and copper appeared to have passed through the fire of all Sabbaths. The girls were painful
and senseless beauty of anemia, flowers withered life that before opening; teens white skin,
pale as paper masks, which the sun I could not warm up, dyeing it at intervals with tiny spots
of color of bran. Virgin eyes wide open, as if surprised to be born with blue lips the pale pink
gums that reveals the misery of the blood. The sad and dull hair excited peeked under the handkerchief,
keeping in tangles and grain chaff ground. The chest was the most monotonous uniformity of
the wilderness, so that breathing is marked fabric under the slightest trace of the mounds
seductive advance proud as a crest of sex. Their hands were large and lean and bony arms and
men. When walking, moved about her skirts in a faint ease as if they only exist within air,
and sitting, the fabric marked angles without the faintest hard roundness. Work, bestial fatigue,
had stalled the development of feminine grace.

Only a few betrayed under their shell charms sex, but there were very few.

Forced to endure the same hardships that the male herd, only remembered that they were women
when late at night, dark and Gañanía, crammed into a corner were disturbed his sleep weary load
females by the boldness of the young men, that groped while the old
farmhands, cured of the illusion of life, snoring wildly as if to
sleep quicker to recover lost strength.

Salvatierra was at home when he saw the crowd gate stood up offering
his seat.

Zarandillo uncle sat on the floor next to Don Fernando, and he, looking
around, found Capers eyes and teeth gleaming horses smiling.

- Look
your honor, Sr.: This is my mom.

And he showed an old gypsy, Aunt Capers, who had just stew off the
heat chickpea by three little boys sniffed ravenously, brothers of
capers and a skinny girl, and large pale eyes, was his cousin Mari-Cruz.

-
"So your honor is that Don Fernando as nombrao? - Said the old .--
Well, God give him a lot pa fortune and a lot of life to be the stand
of the probes.

Deposited on land and the pot, sat with his family around him. It was a meal extraordinary. The
whiff of the beans provided some excitement in the Gañanía, making converge many looks of envy
in the group of Roma. Zarandillo had questions for the old mockingly. Overtime had fallen eh?
... Surely the previous day to go to Jerez, won some pesetillas telling fortunes or providing
powders magic to the kids who complained about the diversion of their lovers. Ah, you old witch!
Seemed impossible for both research had an ugly face ...

The gypsy listened smiling, while eagerly gobble up the beans, but when lying Zarandillo stopped
eating her ugliness.

- Caya, short-sighted, bad shadow. Gave premit you look toa life underground, like your brothers
moles ... If Ajora'm ugly, there were times when I kissed the Marquis
shoes.

Well You know, arrastrao ...

He added wistfully:

- I would not
be here if I lived the Marquis of San Dionisio, Sr. as he resalao
to Thu the godfather of my pobresito José María.

He pointed to Capers, who left his spoon to stand up with some pride to hear the name of his
godfather, which, as stated Zarandillo, was something more for him.

Salvatierra looked into the eyes of the old, evil and bleary, his snout goat, which contracted
to each word with a nasty ductility, the two plumes of gray bristles arising from his lips like
a cat whiskers. And this had been a woman Endriago young and funny, the crazy things that made
the famous Marquis! And the witch had gone many times in the cars of San Dionisio, the bizarre
are the ringing of the mules, shawl with flowers cayéndosele shoulder, a bottle in his hand
and a song the lips, face to the fields that were now wrinkled and disgusting like a caterpillar,
sweating from dawn to dusk over the rows and complaining of pain in his "pobresitos kidney!"
Was less old than it looked, but fatigue wear uníase rapid crash Oriental breeds suffer from
youth to old age, as the splendid days tropic jump from light to shade without any twilight.

Roma
continued eating his soup, and took from a pocket Salvatierra poor
packaging your dinner, after gently refuse the offers made him everywhere.

The

circle closest to him, where was the Trebujena, composed of former comrades famados poor workers
in the villages, some of which Don Fernando tuteaban following usual
practice among the ringers of the idea.

While eating the crust and the piece of cheese, I thought, with the
uncertainty of ever if it would be appropriating a food that could
be missing others, and this led to the set at the only one in the
whole Gañanía did not worry about dinner.

A young man's body was emaciated, with a red bandana knotted around
his neck and a shirt wrap around his chest.

From the bottom of the Gañanía peers called him, telling gazpacho that we had little in the
bowl, but he remained under candlelight, sitting on a piece of wood, bent it on a low coffee table, which
are embedded their knees as in a trap. He wrote slowly and laboriously, with a peasant stubbornness.
He had before him a piece of paper, and copied the lines with the help of an inkwell pocket
full of water slightly blackened, and a blunt pen traced the lines with the same patience of
the ox to open the groove.

Zarandillo, which was next to Don Fernando, spoke of the boy.

- The
Maestrico.

I long to call him by his love of books and papers.

Just Guervós labor already jaciendo pen in hand tallies.

Salvatierra Maestrico approached, and he turned his head to look, suspending a time task. We
expressed with some bitterness in explaining his desire to learn, removing hours sleep and rest.
He had been bred to beast at seven years was now lad in the cottages or pastor in the mountains,
hunger, shock and fatigue.

- And I want to know, Don Fernando, I want to be a man and not confounded seeing mares trot in
the age and thinking we are as irrational as them.

Everything that happens to the poor is because we do not know.

Bitterly watched his teammates, the people of the Gañanía, satisfied with his ignorance who mocked
him, calling him the Maestrico, and he even had the crazy seeing around spell work or pieces
of paper out of his belt pen and notebook, writing awkwardly to the wick of the candle. He had
had no teacher, taught himself. Suffering to think that others easily overcame the obstacles that
foreign aid seemed to him insurmountable.

But I had faith and went ahead, convinced that if everyone imitated him change the fate of
the earth.

- The world is the most knowledgeable, right, Fernando? If the rich are strong and treading and
do what they want, not because they have the money, but because they know more than us ... These
unfortunates were laughing at me when I tell them to teach, and I speak of the rich Sherry,
who are more barbarian than the farmhands. But that's not important! These rich we see closely
are some puppets, and they are the others, the truly rich, those who know, those who make the
laws of the world, and hold the intricacies of a few of them have
all and most have nothing.

If the employee knew what they would not be left cheat, they would face all the time, and at least
force them to be left on power with him.

Salvatierra admired the faith of this young keeper believed the remedy for all ills suffered by
the vast horde of misery. Instruct! Be men! ... Operators were a few thousands and hundreds
of millions of slaves. But just threaten their privileges, ignorant humanity chained to work, it
was so stupid, she herself was left to draw among its members the executioners, those wearing
a colorful costume and throwing the gun to face shot again to restore
the regime of pain and hunger, suffering the consequences then to
back down.

Ay! If men do not live blind and ignorant, how could continue this nonsense?

The candid statements of the boy, hungry for knowledge, were thought to Salvatierra. Maybe
this could see more clearly guilty, the men hardened in battle, they thought propaganda in
action and the immediate rebellion. It was a simple spirit, as early Christian believers, who
felt the doctrines of their religion more intensity that the Fathers of the Church. Its a slow
process was needed centuries, but its success seemed assured. And the revolutionary, listen
to win, they imagined a time where neither ignorance and the current workhorse, malnourished, with
a petrified and thought no other hope than the insufficient and debasing
charity metamorphose into a man.

The first conflict between the happy and unhappy, would break the old world. The large armies
organized by a society based on force, would serve to give the death. Uniformed workers lifted
the rifle butts handed to them their operators to defend them, or would use these weapons to enforce
the law the happiness of the more perverse pastors for centuries kept the human herd injustice. Suddenly
change the face of the world, no blood and no disasters. Disappear, with the armies and the laws
made by the powerful, all the antagonism between the happy and the unfortunate, all deposits and
cruelties that make the earth into a prison. Only men would. And this could be achieved as soon as
the vast majority of human The immense army of misery, it knew its strength, refusing to hold
for longer the work of the tradition!

...

Salvatierra humanitarian sentimentality was flattered by this generous dream of innocence. Change
the world without blood, with a theatrical coup, using the magic
wand instruction, without such violence that repelled a gentle soul
and always ending with the defeat of the unfortunate and cruel reprisals
from powerful!

...

The Maestrico still maintained their belief with a faith that illuminated her candid eyes. Ay!
If the poor know what they know who are rich ... These are strong and rule, because wisdom
is at your service. All discoveries and inventions of science fall in their hands, are for them, just
the waste coming from below. If anyone out miserable mass, rising capacity, rather than remaining
true to its origin, paying sibling support, deserted his post, turning their backs on a hundred
generations of grandparents slaves, crushed by injustice, and sold his body and intelligence to
tormentors, begging for a place among them. Ignorance was the worst servitude, the most heinous
martyrdom of the poor. But the isolated and individual instruction was useless: it only served to be
deserters, defectors, who were quick to side with the enemy. They were instructed all at the same
time: to acquire the bulk of his force knowledge, appropriate blow
the great achievements of human reason.

- Everyone!

You know what I mean, Don Fernando? All at once, shouting "We want no more trickery I do not serve
for more to continue. "

And Ferdinand nods approvingly. Yes, all at the same time, so had to be: all, shedding the skin of
bestiality resigned, only garment that tradition tended to keep on
his shoulders.

But again the Gañanía sight, full of shadow and smoke, cover your eyes believed all mankind
exploited and unhappy. Some had just eat soup, with which cheating their hunger, while others
stretched, satisfied belch, believing that it added digestion nothing broken force of his life,
all appeared brutish, nasty, no will out of his condition, believing in miracles as dimly only
hope, or thinking in Christian charity to let him rest a minute in
a desperate roll the costs of poverty