 

"Good bird will have fallen into the net. Assure girl, as long as you can, that these do not come
every day. But God made you so dull, let him escape ... If it were mine that dam, I first
flayed alive than release me from the claws. But you, as though viewed 're so Pavot, so silfidona,
that a word more or less what you leave off. As I let go, is for me. "

This ease and the ordinary way of speaking mortified both the largest of the Emperors, admonished his
sister that harshly.

"" We have little sermon? - Said the other -.

Shut up, if you do not want me to leave and not return to look around here. For what you give
me ...».

Which continued talking parrot who has taken wine soup. Amparo, disgustadísima, had to suggests
that more easily dominate his basilisk for good than bad, and would not answer to such nonsense.
Acostáronse, and bed to bed, engaged in easy conversation, most found the smaller the true situation.
That man was not his lover, was her boyfriend and was going to marry her. Reíase the other, but at
last had to believe my eyes. How well explained Amparito! ... If shelter is amended, whether it was
judicious, if not hindered their brilliance, As her sister would need ... Yes, it was necessary
to terminate the locurillas.

The sister of a subject as principal had to be pretty decent ... Go! If not, would not recognize
and sister. Before the two opened a bright future. It was fitting
that both are worthy hiciesen of fortune that the Lord will bring.

These revelations had an effect on the minds of Refuge, who fell asleep
and dreamed happy lived in a palace with a thousand other more nonsense.

The next day was very reasonable and submissive.

"Honesty - Amparo thought innate philosophy - depends on the means of being able to keep. Was enough
to tell me this crazy 'we eat', to begin to correct themselves. "

Gave him regular sum of money to keep her happy, and said goodbye to her.

"Today will go to the Costanilla. He wished also lived there and Rosalie, but I can not leave you.
I will come home every night, and give you what you need to break that promise me absolutely
with those of Rufete, and not serve as a model for painters ... That
life is over, and also right out night, trips to the theater stage
and coffee.

From tomorrow I'll work ... The he had to earn a dressmaker, why
do not you have to win you?

You see, see ... Linen galore, some dressing gowns and under your clothes and mine. It has a new
one for you ... But keep that very much, Refugio, and do not work, and back again, do not tell to
swim with me ... Oh, I forgot another important thing: I forbid you to go down to talk with Ido
and his wife, who is too loose tongue. I do not like certain neighborhoods. Book, dependability,
honesty, behavior is what I want. "

- Yes, yes, - said the other with evident desire to obey then, for the account you had.

Amparo shelter came and went, as usual, the Costanilla.

The following days were devoted to shopping, Rosalie was charged with full powers of his cousin.
I declare useless As of Pipaón enjoyed these things and the importance placed in stores. Amparo
to be the party could not overcome her sadness, and consciousness is the ruffling whenever Rosalia,
after haggling delicious fabrics, lace, fans, and jewelry, closed
dealing with traders saying that bill Mr. Knight.

When it came choose a color or shape, the bride fell into the greatest perplexity, and spirit
Look out for more serious efforts, not successful in the election. La de Bringas always chose so
security and assurance as if the objects were purchased for her.

"You do not like - say -. Let me, all I can furnish you with elegance. You seem lela, and look
around with those big eyes ... Why have so much horror to black, you do not but still colorful?
You seem to have come from a village. If not for me, I dress of mess. As you are so ready to
lead your home, the poor will divert Augustine. "

Some evenings, if the weather was fine, Knight brought a barouche closed, and the three they would
ride to the Castellana. Rosalia accept this gift with a satisfaction that bordered in joy, but
the bride was very ill at ease in this exhibition through the streets. Thought that all bystanders
were fixed on her, making spicy comments. While Rosalie was to be seen and is seeded to greet
many well known people pasasen drive, Amparo craved that night shadows fall on Madrid, Paseo and the
carriage. When he retired to his home, the usual time, Knight accompanied to the door, speaking
of the eternal theme of the unending series of home plans. Male happiest never existed.

The bride, however, had to employ workers disguise to believe that the content; but inside
it was the very dismal procession of his doubts and fears. He lived in constant shock, was
afraid of everything, even the most trivial accident were to her reason for distressing concern.
As someone entered the house Bringas, the unhappy suspected that person, whoever he was, came to
tell you something. If I felt it seemed whispering in the room dealing with it. In either of Rosalia
trivial sentence or thought she understood her husband suspected or sly allusion to things
she could only think.

A Knight encontrábale sometimes a little sad would you have said something? ... Until the arrival
of the postman at the house gave him chills. "It would bring some anonymous? This set of anonymous
in your mind in such a way only to see a postman on the street shaking, and the view of any
letter closed with envelope to D. Francisco made her shudder. He disliked Mr. de Torres, who
went to home some evenings, and gave him fear without knowing why.

There is never wearied of looking at the convicted man with mischievous smile, constantly rubbing
his chin, and to these eyes, she felt immense dread, as if in a deserted a bull appeared to him
with threatening jarameño horrible horns.

Was so extreme nervous susceptibility of the Empress, that even when
he heard read It seemed a newspaper printed in those lines would be
the name.

If Paquito came saying: "Do not know what happens?" this one sentence she gave him a violent
blow to the heart. What else? The maid herself, the harmless looking at her smiling Prudence sometimes,
as if he possessed a secret nefarious.

When Augustine and she cooed in honest discussions, rested from the
torture.

But maybe Rosalie appeared unexpectedly, as a person born to be recognized disturb the happiness
of others, and cast glances Inquisition, said:

"And yet Augustine, your girlfriend is not happy ... See what gets executed when face hear me
say ... Something's wrong, but when it is not honest with you, with whom it will be? ".

Such jokes that do not appear, torturing girlfriend but if put in a foal to disrupt. At home
I kept thinking about these things, repeating and commenting to discover the intention which
could lead, and as nothing was happening to his side of that prove for new forms of martyrdom,
see here an insignificant fact that increased its agonies:

The simplest of mortals, D. José Ido del Sagrario, visited her one
night.

Although Amparo concept it was excellent, his presence always inspires disgust and fear. Al
him felt cold like that feel if wrapped in sheets of ice. Man undoubtedly refreshed the memory
of the unhappy young man scenes and passages that she did not want remember more. Therefore,
the rueful countenance of the former writing teacher was represented with frightful features,
Feis an emissary of Satan.

What did the good Ido? What could it serve? The thing was simple. The eminent novelist had quarreled
with his editor, who did not want to take because their manuscripts
although the bucket and gave the cash.

Finding himself on the verge of falling again into poverty, that man, possessed of so many
talents, he reasoned sought a small square next to stable anyone fancy and roots. By his friend
Philip, he knew that Mr. D. Augustine Knight planned to take a clerk
to bring him books and correspondence ...

"Nobody better than you
- said the calligrapher with caramel face - can provide that square,
if taken forward, if pity on this poor parent.

With you say just two words to Mr. Knight, will my happiness because I know that this man's loves
you more than the apple of his eye, and with justice, reason to spare, because you ... (On an
incredible caramel) is an angel, an angel, yes, beauty and goodness. "

Cut under the eulogy. Wanted to conclude and that monster would go away. He could not view,
recognizing that it was pure and innocent.

As proof of his fitness for the position he sought, Ido del Sagrario that night he carried a
sheet of paper.

"Can you show this sheet - for stretching said shyly -, and there you will see my letter that,
though I be wrong to say it, is such that probably will not find
better.

I wrote that Calamo appellant, and is part of the latest novel ...».

For out of sight, she offered to support his claim, and the poor fellow was so grateful to be
and satisfied, threatening to return for the answer within a couple of days. Amparo, left alone,
passed quickly by the novel sight read sheet and sauteed words that appalled: Crime ... torture
... Sacrilege ... deception, and other scary words hurt their eyes and with horrible repercussions
are in your brain. Breaking the pastern, showed the pieces on fire.

The horror that this man caused him increased with the memories he had of the few times see you in
the past.

The Simple Cerato had been good once in the drugstore to take a little note ... They talked
about school, the antics of the boys, the sermon ... What sharp spines are! ... Ido del Sagrario
know! And such a man sought a place in the future home of it! ... Surely God had abandoned her,
handing it over to Satan.

XXVII

Tortured by these and other musings all night, determined to return the next morning the confessional
of good fortune. Did so. She would not confess, but to simply say: "I also had the courage, father,
to do what you sent me." Echola a sermon the priest severe, then giving encouragement and assuring
a successful happy to be determined.

Also that day he saw from afar Doña Marcelina Polo, all black, the color of mahogany face,
locked in bank if he were carved in it.

Penitent turned quieter home, but looking Inside there was a power that the priest had tried
to instill.

"If I dared - I thought then Bringas house -. But no, I'm sure that no I dare. Now I know what I
should say, and when I see ahead, idea goodbye, goodbye purpose. I'm so weak that God certainly
made me something that was worthless. "

And it was too late for the confession! Knight accuse the basis of
having deceived him.

Did not she already enjoyed the position of married? Is not living
off of it?

Had not used Groom heavily in preparing for the wedding?

He could justly be fooled, accused of disloyalty and see more of her perversion had a fraud
of a woman a trickster, a cheat, a ...

And with the deal reached Augustine to his girlfriend's idea to form so high that the confession
would as a shotgun for the poor man. The looked like a superior being, of unprecedented purity
and virtue. What allowed her opinion that his future had such a liar?

How her face now say "no, not me, I have a horrible spot, I did this, this and this ...»? Knight
would die of grief when heard, because such an atrocious statement was to kill best of them,
and despise, the yield from him with horror, with disgust ...

Several times he said: "The best part of my happiness is in knowing that nobody has wanted before
me ...».

And she, foolish, without measuring his words, he answered: "nobody, nobody, nobody." It was certainly
true in the sphere of feeling, because of gaps was pure hallucination delirium, some unconscious,
irresponsible and stupid, as is done in state sleepwalking or under the influence of a narcotic
... But such arguments, stacked to form as a tower, does not destroy
the fact, and the brutal and terrible fact came to light light his
clear logic at the top of this obelisk distinction ... Cursed lighted
beacon your steps!

... Forgetfulness, forgetting was what was needed, he fell land, lots of land on so that they stay
buried forever and torn from human memory.

That evening, Knight found it very self-absorbed and asked several
times why.

"Dislikes has given me my sister" - he replied.

And the face that would represent Augustine if she began to tell ...
and sound would have their words, and he entered a terror so strong,
he said to himself: "I'll kill myself before to confess.

"

Moreover, neither he nor anyone else had to understand if I spoke. Only God as mystery deciphered
large. I thought keeping her purity and righteousness in his heart, but how do understand others
and less of a jealous?

Nothing, silence, silence, silence. God would take forward.

It was true that his sister gave him trouble.

Ido, who often turn up to find the of their claims to the Plaza as a bookkeeper, said that
there were twice been a man who brought dishes and bottles Refuge at the inn, and had offended home.
It's extremely upset. At night the two sisters quarreled. Refugio,
pride, accused the other insolent words.

Amparo tried to submit it yet artfully offering money. But Refugio had shot down the slope
without brakes down, and it was not possible contain it.

"I want nothing with you - he said -. You in your house and I in mine. Do not miss a man like me you.
But I do not deceive me offering me a wedding impossible. Marry you! Good going. Will with a blind.
Do not get white. I will not say anything. Neither I nor hypocrite
like me acknowledge.

There you manage.

Abur. "

She picked up her clothes and left without talking more.

Left alone, he shared his weary spirit Amparito between two modes
equally painful suffering.

It was a disgrace to his sister, other is considered tough, hot fixes as thorn in his brain, where
there were already other: "Shelter knows!".

At dawn, sleep greatest disquietude, the bride confessed everything
to his lover, who, listening, had pulled a knife and had cut off his
head ... Where did stop the head?

There, land of savages, a swarthy man had it in his hands, kissing.

Wake up and lifted not know what to do or think. As has been a nightmare, and wine Ido del
Sagrario about nine.

"Miss ...».

- What, D. Joseph?

- Yesterday, seeing that you do not remember me, I decided to introduce myself to the Lord, which,
as I told him that knew you, I got very good side. The lyrics really liked it. I ordered again.
I think I have space.

We also looked at that simple in a particular way. Was it simple or malice, it was kindness
or betrayal that wore those weeping eyes? Amparo wanted the earth to swallow to such a D. Joseph.

"What
a house you are going to have, Miss! When I went, the Lord was not, and Philip I taught everything.
It is a palace. But frankly, you deserve it ... There were carpenters nailing embroidered curtains.
Then they brought some chairs that look like pure gold ...».

'D. Joseph - she said humbly lowering his eyes to the eyes of this unhappy, which She looked like an
inexorable judge. If you behave, I'll protect you. "

The poor Ido eyes welled with tears.

"Oh! Miss, can we wait ...?

Will you be so good that ...? I dared not intrude; but seeing that you care for us, have the
courage to tell ...? Oh, Miss. Tia sheet like few others. Wants you
to give the finishing of their new home. "

- We'll see ...

- And
the older child ... You know, Louie, the big boy ... Well, if you'd
like to take of lacayín ... It is in handy for you to put your uniformità
with many buttons on the overalls and cap to a gallon.

- We will
see, see ...

- Do not know if you know that my wife is one of the
best hairdressers is in Madrid. Say the head of the Minister of Development
of the biennium and other heads, miss, many others. Met Nicanor home
of His Excellency. I gave lessons to children. One of them has been
as deputy. But this is irrelevant ... Do we have you this ...? The
older girl, Rosa, sewn to wonder ...

- Well, see, see ...-- repeated
Amparo harassed.

Because they were soon laughing would not destroy
their hopes of putting the whole family.

In these and other things
that do not merit concern, spent a few days until end of the year
67. I do not want to talk about the birth Bringas armed them small
or of the noise that got Alfonsito to drum his uncle gave him. There
was dinner, which by force routine we call sumptuous phrase, and was
attended by Knight and his girlfriend. The wedding was set for the
end of February or early March. In preparation and other Event spent
most of January 68. The newlyweds would leave Bordeaux season.

When
Rosalie and Amparo were alone, that spared no occasion to see what
was its protected the attention they deserved the generous cousin.

"Augustine
has given me this fan - he said one day, showing one of the best buys
they did -. Daughter, not everything has to be for you. The poor have
to reach some little thing. And the two shawls seems to be also for
my humble person. Yesterday he said: 'you stay with it if you like
so much, 'and I said,' Oh, no, no way. " But perhaps take it. What
then, my work is worthless? ... All day on the street, forgetting
my attention! ... There are things here, daughter, you will have to
be very bad, because you have air, come on, you do not like more than
the dress of merino. Too bad you spent big bucks Augustine, so you
do not look! What is the navy blue faille dress, believe, in good
I would win with him, even giving my cousin has cost money. I was
to propose ... You do not mind that color is fine, and you know you
wear those things. You look brought from a village and you have what
you do not share. The custom, daughter, custom is all in a matter
of dress. Put a skirt to a palette of satin, and will not know move
foot in it ... Then you get married, I have to change this glistening
pin that I have with two corallites and eight pearls. Is of less value
than yours, but you will be better. Leave me alone, so you fix that
looks something, and bring your vapidity the whole party can. " 

Showed
himself as the girl with everything, but inside it had intended to
hold off, then to marry, the meddling and overbearing pretensions
of Pipaón de la Barca