 This was it! The public, who
likes to show good heart after the misfortunes that have happened, rose en masse, becoming angry
against the President, as if he was he had hit the horns to Serranito.

- Barbarian, savage, murderer!

Frantic waving fists and batons against the president's box, his eyes blazing, blackness faces
anger. No one respected or even remember the majesty was at his side: it insults hurled the
most vile. But the president, though he was repented, and must be, judging from the confusion that was
reflected in his countenance, could not revoke the order, his dignity
would not let him.

Then the crowd went to the cigar, who had taken the stuff, and shouted:

-
Do not kill, do not kill!

I kill that murderer!

The Cigarette shrugged her shoulders and prepared to go looking for the answer. At that moment
a bullfighter who came running said something in his ear, and the sword was terribly pale.
The public knew he had bad news Serranito.

The killer took off his cap, passed his hand across his brow with
gloom, put it back and went toward the bull.

The cries went out instantly, mournful silence reigned in the square.

- He killed his brother!

Killed his brother! - They said the audience's ear.

And all inexplicable anxiety felt a deep sympathy for the unfortunate
cigar.

He moved slowly, hesitant step towards the bull.

But do not stop until stop drop cloth on the same horns.

- Ole!
- Roared the square silence reigned.

The bull jumped as if she felt a spur, and stirred immediately, furious. The sword gave him a
chest pass, above.

- Ole! - Roared back the square.

And again there was silence.

Other countries followed this natural and round, given as short and with such skill, that the public
wanted to go crazy. Matador's feet barely moved out of a circle or very narrow, but this circle seemed
sacred and insurmountable; the bull's horns passed rubbing the old man's jacket matador without
doing the slightest harm. Finally, the beast both stirred and fed
up with fruitless attack, stopped panting.

The bull and the bullfighter looked, wipe it quietly rolled, threw the sword to the face and
cited with the foot to receive. Came the beast, furious, and she stuck the sword to the hilt.
There repressed a scream of excitement in the square. The bull stood motionless for a moment
against torero, threw a faint moo collapsed and fell on his arms.

No one can represent what happened then: a delusion, a massive nervous
breakdown, ten or twelve thousand lunatics screaming at the top of
his lungs, a cloud of cigar, cigarette and hats flying through the
air and black carpeting instantly the white sand. Twenty years had
not been seen in the square in Madrid the chance to receive, thus
consummated.

The Cigarette glanced wanders the stands, ran his hand
over his forehead, and dropping to the ground the crutch, she ran
like a deer without attending to the cries of enthusiasm to the calls
that made him everywhere, jumped the barrier and disappeared of public
view.

When it came to the hospital were already there and Miguel
Enrique with the doctor and some friends