 In the pan down with heavy rattle almost all sailors was there. And the
seat boxes and also left many people. A few minutes were not just in the theater more than
women.

Cecilia stood motionless, pale, his eyes fixed on the scene.

His mother and sister while looking at her with smiling face.

- Why look at me like that? - Turning suddenly exclaimed.

And in saying this was strongly red.

Venturita Dona Paula and laughed.

II

HAPPY ARRIVAL OF "BELLA"

PAULA "

The bunch of spectators ran through the streets towards the waterfront.

Front, surrounded by six or eight sailors, his son Paul and some friends
went Don Rosendo, silent, preoccupied, listening to the comments of
his companions, who pronounced his voice breaking by fatigue.

- Don
Domingo is lucky, comes with more than half tide - a sailor said referring
to the master the Bella-Paula.

- What do you know if it now?

It may be funded from the afternoon - said another.

- Where?

- Where to be, sucker? in the shell - said the other raging.

- If
you had been would, Uncle Michael.

- How you had to see, fool?

... Have you been in case in the rock Corvera?

- The flag of the
Bella-Paula is above the rock, Uncle Michael.

- What flag or how
bad lightning split you!

- What brings cargo, Don Rosendo? - He asked
the owner one of his companions.

- Four million pounds.

- Scotland?

-
No, all of Norway.

- Do you come on board the Master of the Cave?

Don Rosendo not answer. After a moment of growing up hastily, turned saying

- Let's see, it is necessary to warn Don Melchor who is entering the
Bella-Paula.

- I will go - said a sailor standing out from the pack
and going to penetrate again in the village.

They arrived at the pier. The night was cold, starless, the wind lie: the calm sea. They left
the old and tiny dock and headed to the tip of the newly built Pawn progressed well over the
sea. It glowed in the dark as it ships lantern anchored. Just be warned the dense network of your
rig. The helmets appeared as a mass Black report.

The newcomers did not see a much larger group of people crowding into the very tip the pier until
it fell upon him. All were silent with their eyes on the sea, efforts to warn the darkness
of the ship. The waves breaking softly against the rocks nearby, occasionally bleached in the dark.

-
Where is it? - Asked several of the theater audience pulling eyes to see something.

- There.

- Where?

- Do not you see here, left, a green light?

... Go on my hand.

- Ah, yes, I see!

Don Rosendo moved into second body wall, and found there and Don Melchor de las Cuevas. This was
a tall, very tall, thin, shaved in the manner of sailors, ie leaving the beard around the neck
like a bandage. He had more reason for it than most Sarrió neighbors who shaved this way,
because it belonged to the honorable body Navy, while serving as withdrawn. But in the sea ports,
particularly when the population is small, like the one in which we find ourselves, the maritime
element predominates and infiltrates so that all people, could not help it, without realizing it,
adopt certain uses, words and dress of the sailors.

It would have been handsome and gallant Lord of the Caves in their younger days, because today,
seventy-four years, is a vigorous man, erect, bright and piercing eyes, nose hawk, noble and
open front. All his energy and decision announced figure.

Standing on a seat attached to the parapet wall, with huge glasses sea ??led to the little green
light that shone intermittently yonder.

Was by far the highest figure coming out of the group of spectators.

- Don Melchor, you are here now ... I send a message to his home.

- An hour ago I came - "Monsieur de las Cuevas, separating goggles Face .-- I have seen the boat
from the balcony shortly after sunset.

- I had to guess.

How will you escape had nothing to go out there?

- I have a better
view when I was a lad of twenty years - said Don Melchor with strong
intonation and loud so I hear.

- I believe, I believe, Don Melchor.

-
A fifteen miles I turn a boat bonito.

- I believe, I believe.

-
And if you ask me a little - uttered more loudly still, - I tell the
ports to the frigates crossing for Ferrol.

- Arius, lowered a bit,
Don Melchor - said a voice.

There was suppressed laughter in the dark, because the Lord commanded respect de las Cuevas deep
crewmen.

The angry old sailor turned his head toward the spot where he had left the wisecrack. Esforzóse
to penetrate the darkness in silence a few moments, and at length
said hoarsely

- If I knew who you are, you will soon band I lowered
into the sea.

No one dared say a word, nor was there the slightest attempt at laughter.

In Sarrió was known that Lord of the Caves was quite capable of doing as told. He had served
in the Navy more than forty years, always enjoying the view of brave and honorable officer, but
at the same time of a severity bordering on barbarism. When any ship commander remembered of
our ancient maritime ordinances, Don Melchor was determined to implement them and in all its rigor.
We had terror in the people who had drowned a sailor spend three times under the keel, as
prescribed by the ordinance for certain offenses; more than one hundred were crippled with
sticks or had lifted the skin with the whip. Furthermore there was not Sarrió pilot or sailor
could have with him the regard to sea, so in the knowledge of the time, that the maneuvers
of the vessels, in all the secrets of navigation.

The little green light was approaching slowly.

Perceived as the bulk of the Bella-Paula naked eye, and also two or three black spots near
it, which often changed site. They were the pilot boat and auxiliary boats to pull the boat when
it was necessary. As the wind just blew the corvette remained hoisted all sails. No But he was
too close to the wall for this not constitute a hazard. Al Don Melchor less well understood,
because he began to swear under his breath and restless. Unable to resist, knowing that they
had not heard, shouted:

- Grasp the topsails, Sunday. What are you waiting for?

He had scarcely uttered these words, when they were on the tops of
packages almost imperceptible to the sailors.

- Just happened! -
Don Melchor said.

- Yes, that Sunday is a fool! - Said under the
sailor whom the master of Cuevas had threatened.

The hull of the sloop, painted black with a white band in the draft, was highlighted finally
with pure dark background. The eyes of viewers, accustomed now to the darkness, well see what was
happening on board. On the bridge there were two packages, Captain and the practical. In a bow,
the pilot.

- What about the scandal? - Don Melchor shouted again.

The mizzen outrageous, as if to obey his voice fell. The boat continued drawing closer with increasing
pause. The wind sails could not replenish low: the hanging crab stick limp and faint like a
prom dress used. And those were quickly lowered gripping This, and the ship began to walk calmly
desperate towed by two boats. The figures rose rhythmically rowers
on the benches.

And the voice patterns shouting: - Hala ahead! Pull hard! - Brilliantly broke the silence of the
night.

But the Yanks were so weak in relation to the mass, the ship hardly
moved.

When After a quarter of an hour got about thirty fathoms near the
tip of the Pawn took off one end, one of the boats that brought the
levee to help turn the corvette.

- Captain, Captain!

"- Shouted a loud voice from the group.

- What? - Answered the ship.

- Do you come on board the Master of the Cave?

- Yes.

- Eye For the Master of the Caves ... The others drown.

The joke caused great uproar in the crowd.

Silence reigned. The corvette started in turn, supported on the ground
after that creaked with stress.

People in the dock began talking to the board.

But it showed silent, taciturn, serving maneuvers rather than the
questions they were going.

Then the mocking temper the sailors in that region is boasted again.

The ground began to go the board, especially a subject that seemed
a lot of hair, who was called Tanganyika, which was moving from side
to side, with the grace of a bear, running cables, and throwing grunts
of disdain for the crowd.

- Listen, Tanganyika, and you'll feel like
eating a casserole of cod, right?

- Rejoice, Tanganyika is cider
Llandones Winery.

- It was hot in Norway?

- There you would like
to see me, thief! - Growled Tanganyika, while clutching a candle.

The sailors greeted the sentence with laughter.

- Long earth - yelled the pilot from the bridge.

- Hala aboard! -
Replied the sailor who had the lee releasing the whip.

The cable fell the sea and began to rise quickly through the ship's
side.

This was the shelter of the pier, but the tide was not enough to rob
the old spring.

The captain gave a voice to the pilot.

- Fund!

The pilot told sailors at his side:

- Arria!

The anchor fell into the sea with a loud noise of chains.

The boat started to turn on it.

- Are you going to tie you to the ground, Domingo? - Asked Don Melchor.

-
Yes, sir - said the captain.

- No need; amárrate in two.

Within an hour you enmendarte.

- Both one and the other cost me - whispered the captain, shrugging
his shoulders, and then said aloud:

- Check the manual!

Another crashed into the sea anchor with the same noise.

- How do you go to you, man? "- Said a sweet voice and manly from aboard.

- Hello, Gonzalito. "You're good, my son?

- Ideally, I'm going there right now.

And they came down with great agility for a cable to the boat.

-
We will wait - Rosendo said getting to walk.

But the hand of M. de las Cuevas and grabbed her by the arm tongs.

- Where are you going, man?

- What is that? - Asked the frightened owner .-- Ah, true!

I remember we were in the second wall! ... The darkness ... So much time here ... Dizziness to
be with the view Fixed ... on the boat ... My God! What would become of me if you do not hand
me down?

- Well then, you would have broken my brains against the stones below.

- Jesus! - Rosendo said getting awfully pale. His forehead covered in a cold sweat and his legs quaked.

- Do not be afraid by what has already happened, dude.

Let's go down to receive Gonzalito.

Fell in effect at the dock, where he had to leap a tall, blond, handsome
appearance, wearing a long overcoat that almost reached his feet.

-
Uncle!

- Gonzalo!

They moved closer, until they were embracing the two giants. Rosendo also greeted warmly to the young,
but was so preoccupied with the danger he had run its existence,
which instantly turned to be dark and gloomy.

She could hardly answer the questions that the foreman made him,
asking for instructions on behalf of the master.

They stood up then to the house of Don Melchor, located at the top of the town lording an immense
extent of sea. Along the way, let his uncle Gonzalo was ahead and slightly shortened a few
questions to Don Rosendo about your family.

- How is Dona Paula? Have you gone the governing of the eye?

What about Paul? Are you still with the same hobby horses? What Venturita? A woman and be done,
right? ... (Pause.) Cecilia is good? - ended questions quickly.

To all their questions answered in monosyllables Belinchón lord.

-
You know, Gonzalo - stopping suddenly said, - that a little kill me
now?

- What!

Neatly told mishap spring.

Finished the story, fell into a deep consternation.

- I suppose
that the family will already be in bed?

"- Gonzalo said after he had deplored enough (at least in concept) the danger of the merchant.

-
No, they are in the theater ... No one knows where available; do you, dear?

- Hello! Are there company?

- Yes, from a few days ago. Do you think I would have killed, Gonzalo?

- Phs ... maybe you have broken a leg, or both ... or rib.

- Less bad! - Said Mr Belinchón sighing.

In this he had already admitted enough in the population, and at a certain street, don Rosendo
farewell to the uncle and nephew.

It gave him the hand with obvious sadness.

- I'm going to the theater to find the family.

Until tomorrow to rest, Gonzalo.

- See you tomorrow ... Regards.

Mr. de las Cuevas and his nephew were paired walking slowly around the house the first. Then
fell on the traveler a flurry of questions, do not stay on in England, but all relate to the trip
by sea. "What wind? close-hauled always right? ... Did not you ever fallen? The boat cabecearía
not much, is it loaded ... What flows? Marearíais not provided with all the material, eh? Do you
have to reefing Liverpool exit? I know, I know the cloth!

Gonzalo replied to questions with distraction, which, moreover, hardly understood. He was downcast
and gloomy. Finally watching his uncle, stood firm and said:

- What is it, Gonzalito? You seem sad.

- Me? Ca! No, sir.

- I swear it is.

Followed another in silence, and Don Melchor, slapping his forehead,
exclaimed:

- I know what you got!

- What?

- Poor land.

I passed the same thing. When jumping on the ground after a trip I went an uneasiness, a sadness,
a desire so great return on board! It lasted two or three days until I became accustomed. Anyway,
I had desire to reach port, but once there, she missed life on board. I do not know what the
sea is that attracts you? ... That pure air! ... That movement! ...
That freedom! ... A that make you feel like the boat, eh? - Ended
by saying with a grin who credited his extreme insight.

- Damn ...
From what I have won, man, I'll tell you in confidence ... is to see
my girlfriend.

Don Melchor was amazed.

- Really?

- What you hear.

She
thought for a moment, Mr. de las Cuevas, and he said:

- Well, if
you want to go to the theater to greet ... Meanwhile, I'm going to
see how Amendment Domingo.

- What has to be amended? It is a wonderful
person - said the young man smiling.

The guy, without realizing the
irony, he sneered.

- Oh, I see you so ignorant as you went ... I
am looking for dinner.

- I wait for you, man - said Gonzalo, who
was already far .-- It may not have dinner. 

And without taking race,
but with unusual speed, thanks to his huge legs, saved the streets,
lit by some rare oil lamps in the theater. Any you stumble in that
hour you inglesote diputaría by the many who come to Sarrió sometimes
sending ships, other mining concessions to recognize or mount any
industry. His colossal stature, big man, are the hallmarks of the
Spanish race, even we are in one of the northern provinces. Then,
that so long coat, boots three soles, hat exotic form, clearly denounced
abroad. Well, looking at him Face had just completed the illusion,
because it was white and smooth and decorated with long beard, blue
eyes, hazel or rather, as those who are almost except in the northern
breeds. Seize the short time remaining before us you get to the theater
to provide the reader with some biographical information about this
young man.

The Cuevas family to which it belongs, came to be giants
and marine, from time immemorial. Marino had been his father, his
grandfather ocean, marine uncles, and also marine their children.
Gonzalo lost his father and mother when it was eight years old owner
of a not inconsiderable fortune, managed by his uncle and guardian,
Don Melchor, in whose power and save his father left him to die. Well
like the old sailor who your ward continue the uninterrupted tradition
of the lineage of the Caves in the race. To hobby or tip you wake
to the Navy, bought a beautiful sloop where both walked out in the
evenings or fishing.

But all the good knight purposes crashed into
the ground hobbies of his nephew. From the sea did not like him more
than fish, but seasoned and steaming and in the middle of the table.
Still compromised, however, with a light snack stew there somewhere
bend of the coast, sitting on a rock where Manase fresh drinking water.