 

Unfortunately for our Marchioness, Count Alhedín was not a man against whom they could enforce such
subtle arts. Count perhaps liked it rested quietly in doubt when other subjects it was, but in
the business of love, like leaving the question soon.

Elisa's flirtations were not, therefore, the success they had with other men.

The Count raised the issue in such a way that was necessary for the mystery is cleared. Elisa whisked
denied all their flirtations, and the Count is away until calm, coldly his claim of love. They
returned the flirting, the demands were renewed, and she again refused, and Condesito unwittingly
offended, withdrew completely from the court to Elisa.

All Flirting further work was lost. The Condesito Elisa even gave satisfaction of pride, showing
their anger or exhale a complaint.

The last flirtation, the latest flirtation with the Count had been
sensitive, was in Paris during the spring.

In Paris also came the commitment of the Earl of no be sensitive again. And the Count was able
to meet its commitment. Easier conquests consoled and distracted him from that very slight
setback.

Was mortified a thousand times more pride in this than the Conde Elisa.

Unaccustomed Elisa to desist as soon heartthrobs pretending and withdraw as well with glacial
rest, he was somewhat rough, but concealed the sink.

The Condesito and she left, apparently, at least very close.

He had come to Madrid for business, and Elisa promised to go to Biarritz
for the summer.

Occurred, while in Madrid the Count, the appearance of Dona Ines Beatriz and Gardens Buen Retiro,
the efforts of Count to know them and treat them, and eventually as we have already referred.

The
count did not go to Biarritz to fulfill his promise friendly.

Elisa, at first, distracted with other flirtations, surrounded by
adoration and triumphant ever, not missed the lack of Conde.

Assumed that business and held him still lasted in Madrid.

Later, when he reached her ears that kept him in Madrid Conde new
love, Elisa was a little upset as, but not well ascertained that no
new love were in no great lady, no lady swanky and famous, but with
a villager, wife of a writer or anything like that, he became a terrible
desire to laugh and make fun the Condesito, and forgot his brilliant
victories past, considering it as an unhappy parapoco, who took refuge
from the tacky, or failure to achieve anything in higher areas, or
having depressed mood, or taste havoc, ruin and plebeian.

Elisa returned to Madrid. Count saw in theaters, walks and talks, and found it so kindly and so friendly
affection that was more certain than ever his indifference to her
point to love.

Indifference could not be affected or pretended that way.

This began to offend the vanity of Elisa.

We dare not smite also ensure that any other fiber of his heart, less petty than that which corresponds
to vanity.

It also captured the mood of Elisa's most lively curiosity to know the woman clerk, from whom
all claimed as the Count was in love.

But Dona Beatriz had not penetrated more classrooms than in those of the Countess of San Teódulo;
would not drive, for the simple reason that it was not, going to
Mass and other church and other times that of Elisa.

Anyway, they went months without Elisa came to see Dona Beatriz. It is true that if Elisa walked
curious, he was also afraid of her. I was afraid to find it beautiful and naturally distinguished.
He reveled in mock vulgar and ordinary.

Meanwhile, Elisa came to the notice of something that had to mortify most of all: the drive
Count on us to believe that their relations with Dona Beatriz was
Petrarchism himself.

Was this is true or not, involved a consideration, respect, a delicate attention to clerk's wife,
Elisa was filled with anger and even envy when it pondered. The more efforts did not ponder,
the more frequent were the thoughts.

Elisa still conformed to explain everything by a certain cowardice,
indolence or poverty of spirit, which withdrew the count of how difficult
and how easy it was inclined to, that led him to depart of the rough
and steep climb to follow the beaten path and plains.

The I could not suffer with patience was that the Count is pleased and still boasts that go
up by higher roughness, and struggling with the toughest challenges she had excited in vain to climb
and overcome.

Despite their efforts to pretend the contrary, insisted Elisa then form large idea of ??merit
of Dona Beatriz.

- It must be - he said to himself - a devil woman, beautiful, discreet,
possessing infernal resources, as has been bewitched and stupefy the
Count, which is no small or inexperienced no fool.

With these and similar reflections the Marquesa is tormented almost continuously.

The new, finally, the showdown with the poet Arturo Conde to defend the pristine purity of women's
clerk, a bomb exploded in the heart of Elisa.

- The wish, the love
madly - Elisa said in the depths of my soul -.

What will be done that daemon to capture those thoughts free to breaking on the mind clear
and calm, to move a storm of passions in that spirit so calmly?

Nothing fixed Elisa answer such questions, but vaguely, and pretended to Dona Beatriz so beautiful,
so quiet and so elegant as it was in reality, and also implied in
Dona Beatriz learned an art not a wisdom infused just so extraordinary,
that all flirtations she used to use were crude, childish or silly,
in comparison with those of fortunate that dark and provincial.

In this state of mind came a day happened to be damn, going for a walk Elisa in Lander, while passing
through the Puerta del Sol at about four o'clock in the afternoon, interpose some women off
guard and they were about to be trampled.

The man who accompanied escaped the danger of shaking his stick before the horse, which, terrified,
is raised their hands, and gesticulating rearing and shook the landau and scared at the same time
Elisa.

How it would not be surprised to recognize the man who had just given
him the fright Alhedín Count himself, who greeted her politely and
humbly asked forgiveness sign of that necessary irreverence!

There was no time for talk to Elisa Conde, whose horses, paragraph
Count them block the path, pulled furiously, despite the vigor with
which the driver was holding.

Elisa had time, however, to look, to examine the two women.

Guessed the point who they were.

Cruel was the result of its review.

Beatriz absorbed their attention, scarcely noticed Inesita; but Beatrice saw her and watched,
studied with an intensity so deep, which offset surplus over the
short period of the study.

In the depths of his consciousness, into that abyss where not served by larger self live in
us, and as far as understanding rarely gets dull, Elisa recognized much lower for a moment
around Dona Beatriz.

Soon, however, turned his mind from the prostration, he recovered from being intimidated, the faint
he had fallen.

The reaction of wounded pride was very violent and powerful.

Then, running in his car down the street of Alcala, Elisa vowed to fight to the death Dona
Beatriz, which was far removed from that rose against him so formidable enemy.

On behalf of pride in the name of love, which was born suddenly pride in his soul, if well with impure
bastard birth, Elisa was resolved to fight, to venture all to attract
Count back and take it away from Dona Beatriz and take it.

Husband or lover, everything was just at that moment of anger: what mattered was held the count,
get that was not Dona Beatriz, get that woman saw abandoned.

XVII

Despite its cult of Dona Beatriz, the Condesito still going to theaters, tours and meetings
aristocratic. At these points always found Elisa.

This re-used to captivate all the means employed had before, but the little Count, firm and cold
as a stone, it is not sensible or even showed it was understood.

Elisa did not lose hope so: its arts and was strained beyond the term until where his life had
taken the flirtation. Neither got the Count and give the slightest sign that were inclined to
surrender.

Elisa then took pains in her dress and hairstyle, looked new and rich galas, the mother of
invention so that the gatherings had more spell their conversation, drew around him a few men were
worth more to any style, was surrounded by more brilliant and numerous
court ever and even so he could overcome the indifference of Conde.

Samples gave him more obvious and flattering your choice of left planted a thousand times around
a circle of admirers, and breaking on balls, went to grab the arm
of the scornful.

For he was the sweetest eyes, the warmest smiles, all those signs in short, often portend for
and reveal love, without going beyond the limits of modesty and decorum.

The count did not respond to diversion. This would, but less cruel. The Count replied with
gratitude, with extreme courtesy and compliance with such glacial, which put itself out of the
poor Marchioness.

Imagine, finally, Elisa, that was happening with the Count as the shepherd liar in the fable
who cried "Wolf! Wolf!

"When the wolf came, and that once the wolf came, not worth crying "Wolf!" because those who could
help him no credit given their cries. Elisa Conde estimated that came with the claim, fearing
new joke. Was therefore necessary to give full evidence of sincerity.

Much has violated before resolving. His pride would not consent. Their customs, so contrary the humble
honesty, his desire to put dock.

Elisa knew promising, encouraging, giving hope in such an air and confusing that even she
could deny that he had promised encouraged. His love, or rather the ghost, the appearance of love
she created and nurtured in his soul, was so subtle and vaporous,
it slid to the bulk of the most hardened, sometimes waking up storms,
and left no trace no trace of their passage.

Vanish as shadow was illusory, vain as sylph, and had the strength
to destroy a giant heart.

But the ghost of love is not worth it and with the Count. True love, though born of envy and jealousy,
not worth either. The Count, chastened and false love, false took for the true. It was essential
to show his true love and reality, but offered the slightest doubt. Elisa Beatriz eager to steal
the heart of the Count, cost what it might took.

In this mood, Elisa was given to all that could assure the victory. But in the midst of its most
violent passions, prudence never left. Estimated calmly, as if in quiet.

Calculated, then, on this occasion, that unconditional surrender was not victory but defeat;
it is possible that the Count, true winner, to return to Dona Beatriz,
hiding fleeting infidelity or asking pardon for his fault.

Elisa shivered just thinking of spite.

His first idea was that the Count, if left to Dona Beatrice, or her husband or her lover, limited
to only one of the two terms of the dilemma.

The Marquesa, so free up there, decided to subject to the dominion of man. It was rich, despite
his futile flirtation, its reputation had been preserved without
stain, was no less illustrious family that the Count, was for Count
an excellent match, why were not to marry the two?

It was the only sure Elisa had to triumph over Dona Beatriz.

A woman as proud as a hint Elisa could not direct the Count: they could not She was declared.
Decidióse, therefore, a step that would not compromise its reputation, which the left unharmed,
but could mortify his vanity.

Called home to an elderly uncle who inspired him the most confidence
confession made to him general of his flirtation with Count Alhedín;
recognized that with love there are no jokes; stated that, teasing
her with love, and was mocked, the captive and love, and begged the
wise guy who saw the mother of the little Count, and, as their own,
while giving understand that it was satisfied that the Marquise was
propitious, propose to that lady so bright marriage for his son.

Uncle discretion and ability to comply with the delicate assignment. Alhedín widow Countess
found that his son could not dream of better wedding, and put himself
entirely from the Marquesa, whose strong will for the Count's extremely
flattered.

It goes without saying that the negotiations were with the utmost secrecy.

The Countess of Alhedín had with his son a long conversation, he talked about the wedding proposal
as a great joy to his house, and an auspicious event which deserved all approval and tried to take
away from the amorous entanglements meant it, painting the home delights domestic and repeating
what was sometimes said, that it was time that had a family, acquire other serious and respectable
and employed his life and the high clothing God had given serious
matters, that would be of greater pro and luster of his name and for
the good of his country.

The Condesito again denied his mother that
he had relations with Dona Beatriz, and confessed I had been prendadísimo
de la Marquesa, but added that his heartless coquetry he had healed
from the principle of love, and that he had healed so completely that
it was and impossible to love the Marquise, and therefore to marry
her, while recognizing that was worthy of carrying his name and be
his partner in life.

In short, although in an indirect way, and with
the deepest secrecy, and softening the blow those who spent two means,
namely: first, the Countess, speaking to the uncle, and Uncle after
talking to the niece, but she, like hard lesson as punishment for
his flirtations, received what is commonly called a terrible squash.

The
pride of Elisa, insulted and humiliated in the most lively, called
revenge from the bottom of his heart.

Elisa never expected, nor in
their darkest dreams and desperate, that a man had to resist their
powerful attractions and the magic of his flirtations, that this man
had of love when it was she who used to love all men, and finally
had to drive up to the point of taking the initiative and to beg his
hand, and to receive from him an insolent and merciless condemnation.

The
cause of all these evils was Dona Beatriz. Because of Dona Beatriz
Elisa believed that Earl had fallen in love, because of Dona Beatriz
Conde believed that the despised. 

The anger took hold of his soul
threw away the anger all feeling generous, scruples, any consideration
to oppose revenge.

As long as revenge She did not draw as neither
the crime, do not blush in the media reflect vilest and get to take
advantage of them.

XVIII

Two days after the cruel disappointment
of Elisa, Don Braulio Gonzalez, to go sit in the his desk in the Ministry,
he saw on his desk a letter which was addressed. The opened and read
as follows:

"Mr. Don Braulio: Fame is spreading everywhere you listísimo.
I've taken you love and do not want to believe. In the situation you
are ready to call him the greatest injury. Indeed you may not be ready
in just. Or you are not ready, or you go over ready. I prefer to believe
and say that you are stupid. It would be so infamous know and hide!
No, you do not know what in Madrid knows every living creature. You
do not hide