 At home, outgoing and not
embedded in the wall, pleases the eye with its flames and heat the pasta gave pleasure residue,
the dry branches and wood of oak and olive.

Comfortable furniture abounded there, and never failed, at least, a table of triplets.

Journal pundits were constant and Don Anselmo's father Andrew. And it was, likewise, the doctor,
and quite old and old-fashioned man of few words, but wise triplets, which used to be the fourth
in the table when playing Dona Ines. To take this honorable satisfaction, and perhaps to gain
some real, because they played ten per hundredfold, and he earned almost always, violence to the
doctor until the end of shaving one day every other, and leave the hall coat and hat, without
going through the layer of shoulders, if not muffled and with his hat pulled down to his eyebrows,
as used enter other houses where she was visiting.

So profound was the respect that Dona Ines inspired!

Thursday's turnout was much larger and usually have two or even three tables seating area.
Came the mayor, four or five of the major contributors and the shopkeeper
Murcia Don Ramon it was the richest person in the place after Don
Andres.

They came, finally, don Pascual, the school teacher, and Don Policarpo, the chemist.

Doña Inés had shown some reluctance to come to the chemist, but Don Andrés had managed to overcome,
not without promise before reading the primer for the chemist is not run riot leave or escape
some awful wicked or free thinker. Mr. Andrew said that he respected like no freedom of conscience
and education, but if I wanted to enjoy the social gathering of the lords of Roldan, and professors
should be paid by the Government, which if judiciously, saved his wickedness for a better opportunity,
and the chair, which is Dona Ines his coterie, are very polite, try
not to say anything to offend the beliefs of who pays or the recipient.

The

chemist, who had a mind to go to the gathering, agreed to the terms, provided that was allowed
to free thought at home, but could not be left or wanted to cut his devilish and miracle-working nail.

Long
Dona Ines was the only lady in the party had.

It seemed that a gentlemen's club with a woman president.

Quite recently, however, had introduced a startling novelty.

At the first gathering on Thursday, and later to the journal, attending another lady. Was is the
noble widow Dona Agustina Montes de Allende Solis and Water, thirtysomething midwife years,
though fresh, cool, funny, good meat and better looking, and with
twenty-eight or thirty thousand pieces of income over a few more or
less.

It was not necessary to be a whiz to understand that Dona Ines, when
there was another consenting lady in your chat, and even liked it
was because she had decided and ordered her to marry his father, Don
Paco.

Doña Agustina was so pleased with this unusual distinction and so grateful and submissive Dona Ines,
who readily received in his heart, as the soft wax receives the seal, the name, image and affection
of the person Dona Ines wanted to record on it. And it was both easier this print as Don Paco
was not only very of receipt, but had beautiful presence and deserved reputation as a discerning
man Villalegre discrete.

In addition, Mrs. Agustina - and Inés know for a fact - I was tired of widowhood and having the
heart empty or blank slate, smooth, and wanted to find something in it worth recording.

Perhaps to be composed and look carefully groomed, and had even been to several fairs and processions
in other cities, but all had been in vain and had not previously found subject that petara.

Doña
Inés expected on the basis that petaría Don Paco. And for this we needed Don Paco see her, talk
with her and was very thin, Dona Ines, who before conceiving Wedding project not long insisted
that his father came to the gathering, turned her now and almost
sent him, with the ease Imperatori so like her, not to fail to come
any night.

Don Paco obeyed and went, so that he saw Juanita journal entry when
she was in the anteroom, while Don Paco, scorned and dismissed, did
not stop to talk to her and passed by, merely saying goodnight.

Juanita answered the salute with feigned indifference, but the sly look at his former suitor,
and every time I watched him he was better. The tinge of melancholy which showed on his face made him
look more dignified and beautiful. Juanita imagined, proud that love it, though poorly paid,
had ennobled and beautified his soul and his face, banishing of them
vulgar expression that I used to have before, when he, devoid of love
sublime and little happy, wearing his wit often scurrilous saying
pleasantry.

So, not very slowly, but hurry, Juanita acknowledged that the appreciation
and friendship had always been inspired by Don Paco became love, and
love despite increased to have more than half a century their subject.

Greatly influenced this increase suspicion that Juanita had lost her
spurned admirer, that this would finally heal from his unhappy passion,
and that finally yield to suggestions or near their daughter mandate.

Says a common precept: "I do not want to eat let it cook." But there are few female comply with
such provision as it applies to things of love. Juanita had not met although I had not loved
and Don Paco. Comforted and charmed to have that constant victim and see that heart burn, which
perpetual holocaust, for the sake of her beauty. Although she had not accepted the sacrifice, would
have afflicted much to come and Dona Agustina he stole the heart sacrificed. Was even more
grief for Juanita to note that the sacrifice Don Paco was becoming more enjoyable. Temptations often
had to stop Don Paco while passing through the anteroom, to say he regretted having written
the letter dismissing and instruct him to not surrender to Doña Agustina
heart, because she wanted to have and you take care with more gift
and affection that no other woman on earth.

When Juanita saw go through the hall to Mrs. Agustina, who was very pompous to socialize, the
blood of brave cavalry officer circulating in his veins all tousled, domain and she needed that was
on him to contain his impulses and not to scratch Dona Agustina. Other times, remembering certain
tricks, habits and customs that had been in his adventurous and free
children, I felt the itch to grab the lady and, as I used to do in
Linden tempore with other girls her age and even older, hoist their
skirts and give a good hand spanking.

But if Juanita was brave, was also discreet, and steadfast in their intention to be cautious refrained
and were due. By coincidence, and although she had not read the sonnet of Lope, conceived
of pastoral images and perhaps be included Dona Agustina as a Mayorala or rabadana carrying behind
them, tied with a cord, tame it, the shepherdess Juanita, had carefully
preserved, giving handfuls of salt.

          And then he seemed to say to Mrs. Agustina: "Release the meek, that
is mine let free, and you'll see how he comes to me.

Salt is still the hands of its owner. "

However, Juanita was limited to wonder and fear, remaining inactive.

Everything then it would have been at odds with the two projects of Dona Ines's wedding Monji
his father and it would have been the most daring rebellion against the tyranny of the queen Villalegre
absolute and Don Paco and she would put in danger of having to migrate
Adam and Eve expelled from Paradise.

Moreover, Juanita was so proud that you ache for more than the fear that Mrs. Gustine off Don Paco,
would not, calling themselves, come at once to avoid it and stay to doubt that he, not named, might
have to give in and surrender to another owner.

XXVII

As in the place around the world understand that any decree of Dona Ines was unfailingly met,
and as it was revealed that it was decreed the marriage of Don Paco Dona Agustina there was scarcely
a person who does not give as by anything done.

I do not know how fiercely expensive arouse This angered and Juanita.

Still, however, apologized to Don Paco recalling that she had fired and that he did not have to be
faithful.

He thought he looked like maybe a prudent dissimulation that she observed, and in this way is bring
themselves to forgive him for not revolt against Dona Ines, who was so obedient that day come to socialize,
that not a few nights, as Juanita learned, Don Paco complying with the mandate of his daughter,
Dona Agustina accompany to their home, to not be alone with the maid
who came after her, and perhaps was polite and gallant Dona Ines Dona
Agustina to not rage.

With such restraint Juanita ran sometimes, but more often lost moderation and put a poison made.

Then
qualified to Don Paco de inconsistent, fickle and interested in,
tried to hate him or despise him, and he was predisposed, tempted
and eager to retaliate.

Don Andrés Rubio, meanwhile, kept coming every night at Dona Ines, Juanita, unlearned with coquetry,
caught him strange looks, stares of those who seem to write mysterious,
where the same person who wrote it ignored or confused idea of ??revelation
it does and where the reader thinks and conceives read the revelation
sweet hopes.

From the looks are going to the words with ease, and Don Andrés, always trying to find Juanita
alone, approached her to go into the gathering and shot him point blank, as his mouth Machine
Gun Cupid, a deluge of flowers and a discharge hot compliments closed.

She, more cautious in speaking than in look, and lowered his eyes and dodging does not respond,
responded and diversion, but tempered and sweetened by the affectionate
respect and consideration character of so many bells that could not
fail to inspire.

Nor wise Juanita hide the joy and comfort that such flattery flattery
so great put in his chest.

- Your Excellency please report - said
- and not make fun of a poor little girl.

How am I to believe I like Your Excellency that my rudeness when
your excellency's used so many delicacies and many refinements?

Your Excellency has given proof of such good taste, that ... well, I do not want believe that now
has ravaged the palate. Let me, sir, calm, do not try to get me out of my boxes. Jesus, Dona Ines
would be nice if you come to understand that Your Excellency was walking flattering and I heard
him missing the respect due to this house as respectable.

And with these words or the like Don Juanita departed and went to Andrew other end of the hall.

When
Don Andres was chasing, Juanita ran away down the corridors.

Don Andrés stopped in their pursuit to avoid being seen.

Regretting little or nothing to ahead in the campaign had been committed, and not wanting Fabio
Cunctator be another appealed to more effective strategy and admonished for ambushes and raids.
Instead of seeking to Juanita in the hall, waited in the hallway, without going into the house
until Juanita to come out to go to sleep at yours.

Juanita was not afraid of anyone or no one would dare, and go alone, but the streets were dark.
His house also was not far.

Don Andres would not be out to meet, but confessed frankly that he
was waiting and escorted several nights, but she always hated.

Breathtaking art were used Juanita and ingenuity and will power that was able to deploy to hold
off Don Andrew and get, without breaking with it completely, not
come to blows.

The genius of it, usually cheerful and joking, and I had to ease
throw everything into a joke earned him a lot in those difficult circumstances.

Because the Indeed, she would not act unreasonably Don Andrés, but also wanted to be was, and it was
hard problem and the question of miraculous balance without falling or staying aside or another,
going without a rope swing and rope strap.

For every compliment, every proposition made him don Andrés, Juanita replied with a joke or an incoherent
nonsense, Don Andrés, but crumpled mortified and could not take it wrong and had to laugh.

Juanita,
to be accompanied by Don Andrés, hurried pace, and four hops are planted at the door of his
house. Don Andrés struggling then enter.

- Yikes!

Yikes! - Exclaimed Juanita -. Does your excellency left hand of God?

Because it would be funny to enter tute playing with my mom, who still wakes up with anxiety.
How do you want Your Excellency, in Playing with Dona Ines make a game of ombre, make me a
match mountain?

Valgame Santo Domingo, our patron! I do not forgive.

- By God, do not be retrechera, let me, let me, the charm of my eyes.

-
Good God and what he says your excellency!

What language is used! That must be "bad language the devil ", to which both teacher speaks
the venerable father Fray Juan de Avila in a book I do read my lady Dona Ines to prepare a nun.

-
And you want to be?

- We shall see. Often seems to me that the vocation I go, especially to see the dangers surrounding
a wretched creature like me helpless and foolish. But in the end, though silly me I do not
want to be disrespectful to Dona Ines, who guides me the best way
and I will pay the dowry to enter the cloister.

- What ingratitude
would be yours?

What Dona Ines offend if I want?

- Do you like your excellency that the offense would be embarrassing your girl if I plan to
make me a saint and if I change? ... Come, leave your excellency
to socialize and Dona Ines not heavy.

Juanita rattled so loudly on his door knocker, and as soon as the
half-open or his mother or the maid would filter it, and almost slam
gave the door don Andrés in their noses.

With these sets, deals and discussions, Don Andres emberrenchinaba more each day, and circumspection
was disappearing. Force is to confess, but would not be in praise of Juanita, that this does
not disappoint either Don Andrés zapeaba completely and who delighted in holding and cause their
retrecherías.

It is true that recognizing Juanita was unsafe to be accompanied by
Don Andrés all night, peered skill when Don Andrés not waiting in
the hallway, and hereafter always managed to escape her home without
being accompanied by Mr. Andrew.

          
          

When spent many nights she always escaping, sorry don Andrés, exalted beside herself, gave the
most heartfelt complaints, finding her alone in the anteroom. The vehemence the feelings of the
chief was revealed in his hasty speech, gesture, in gesture and emotion in his voice. Regardless
of anything raised his voice.

- For the Holy Souls! - Said the girl -; témplese your excellency and see themselves as they
do not look for me, and not promote this ridiculous uproar and become
the story of the place and be the talk of all the cursing.

- Nothing
I care about cursing if you bless me as I bless you.

Bless you a thousand thousand times, and blessed is the mother who
gave birth.

So saying, without regard to other reasons, he couched as crazy about it, and so suddenly she
could not escape their hugs and kisses. Five or six, that number is not Historians agree, was
planted in the fresh cheeks, which turned red scarlet.

Not content, he sought his mouth to kiss it, and found her and kissed.

Her lips were not next to hers as long as those of Don Tristan de Leonis and Queen Iseult, of
the old romance says:

Both were united As a low mass.

On the contrary, no sooner Juanita recovered from the shock and surprise, made a face so fierce that
was scary, despite being so beautiful, and with both hands clutching his shoulders to don Andrew
shook him from him with such force that he hesitated as drunk and came close to fell to the
ground. Shortly before Don Paco had entered the anteroom, so that if he saw the push, also saw
the kisses that had motivated.

What had to make Don Paco? Acted as if nothing had ever seen. And he and Don Andres entered
the gathering as usual.
XXVIII

The next day Villalegre occurred in a case that shocked and
did much to discuss.

Not by the City Council or by the mayor's house,
or by the clerk, nor any part Don Paco seemed, that day came all to
perform its various functions. Were to his house and found him not
there. The sheriff and his wife, who served him and cared for, did
not know how or when he was gone and gave no reason for his whereabouts.

Spent
the whole day without Don Paco return and without find out where,
and increased amazement. Nobody was right to explain the cause of
this disappearance. Made long for that region, thanks to the welfare
and prosperity reigned and the praiseworthy Guardia Civil, not talking
about bandits and kidnappers.

Where, then, was involved Don Paco?

People
asked him and did not give satisfactory answer.

Friends, and simultaneously
don Andrés Rubio, they were restless. Just do not alter Dona Ines.
His stoic nature and his Christian resignation and conformity to the
will of the Almighty usually retained unchanged the tranquility of
his soul. Doña Inés also saw no nothing alarming in the event, and
herself and her friends and father Don Andrés Anselmo explained it
quite naturally. And said quietly assumed that your father, but was
healthy and good and had more look of that old boy, had begun to age,
surrender and weaken the heart, perhaps fault him how much he worked
and studied. This was that, according to Dona Ines, his father, long
since, was frequent but slight indications extravagance and premature
senility. Such was the cause was the disappearance Dona Ines Don Paco