 These painters! ... Like his son! And was moved to think low life of the
director in July.

- My respected Dona Luisa ... Dear Madame Desnoyers ...

He spoke French and he cries, looking at the door where he had gone
white flutter and pink.

Trembled at the thought that the hidden companion zealous incur errors committed with an untimely appearance.

Then
they spoke of the soldier. The two were communicating their news. Doña Luisa repeated almost verbatim
paragraphs of his letters, re-read many times. Argensola declined modestly to teach texts of
their own.

The two friends used an epistolary style that would have blushed to the good lady.

- A courageous - he said proudly, considering the acts of his own partner - a true hero and I, Madame
Desnoyers, I understand some of this ... His bosses know how to appreciate ...

July was a sergeant at the two months of campaigning.

The captain of his company and other officers the regiment belonged to the circle of fencing where he
had obtained so many victories.

- What a race! - Continued -. It is young people who come to the higher grades, such as generals
of the Revolution ... And what of exploits!

The soldier was only slightly mentioned in his letters some of his
acts, indifference of living accustomed to danger and appreciated
his comrades as a throw.

But the bohemian the exaggerated, lauded as if they were the most climactic events of the war.
Had taken an order through a hellish fire, dropped dead after three messengers without to
fulfill the same request. He had jumped the first to attack and saved
many trenches with bayonets in hand to hand shock, to many comrades.

When his bosses needed a trustworthy man, invariably say: "That call Sergeant Desnoyers."

I said as if he had witnessed, as if he had just returned from the war, and Dona Luisa shaking,
crying tears of joy and fear at the thought of the glories and dangers
of your child.

Argensola He had the gift of touching, by the vehemence with which he related things.

Believed that enthusiasm should thank both showing some interest in
the person of panegyrist ... What had he done recently?

...

- I, madam, I have been where he belonged. I have not moved from here. I witnessed the "place" Paris.

Protested
in vain that his reason for the inaccuracy of this term. Influenced by his readings about the
war in 1870, called "place" to operations together to Paris for During the Battle of the Marne.

Modestly pointed to a framed diploma of gold as on the piano, with
the a tricolor background.

It was a role that was sold on the streets: a certificate of residence in the capital during
the week of danger. He had filled in the blanks with their names and qualities and at the foot containing
the signatures of two residents of the rue de la Pompe: A bartender and a friend the concierge.
The district police commissioner guaranteed to seal section and responsibility
of these honorable witnesses.

No one would doubt, after this caution, if he had witnessed or not
the "place" in Paris.

I was so incredulous friends! ...

To move to the good lady, did report their impressions. I had seen in broad daylight a flock
of sheep on the boulevard, next to the gate of the Magdalena. His steps were awake in many
streets echo of the dead cities. He was the only passer: in sidewalks wandering dogs and cats.

Their
military memorabilia, cheered him as murmurs of glory.

- I've seen over the Moroccan ... I've seen the Zouaves car.

The same night that Julio had left for Bordeaux, he wandered until dawn, following a flood line
halfway across Paris, from the Lion of Belfort to the Gare de l'Est. Twenty thousand men, with
all his campaign material, from Morocco, had landed in Marseilles and arrived at the capital, part of
the journey by rail and another on foot. Came to intervene in the great battle was beginning.
Troops were composed of Europeans and Africans. The vanguard, on entering the door of Orleans,
began gymnastic step, and half through Paris to the Gare de l'Est, where they hoped trains.

The neighborhood saw spahis squads of theatrical uniforms, mounted on their horses nervous and
thin, yellow-turbaned Moroccans shooters, shooters Senegalese black
face and red cap, gunners colonial African hunters.

They were professional fighters, soldiers in peacetime living fighting in the colonies, energetic
profiles, faces tanned, eyes of prey.

The long parade was immobilized on the streets for hours To allow time for settling into the train
the forces that went before ... And Argensola had followed this armed mass from the boulevards and
motionless at the door of Orleans, speaking with the officers, hearing the cries of the warriors
naive Africans who had never seen Paris and crossed it without curiosity,
wondering where the enemy was.

- Arrived in time to attack von Kluck
on the banks of Oureq, driven back on pain of being involved.

She did not foresee was that his trip Argensola night along the corps had been accompanied
by the gentle person inside and two friends more, enthusiastic group and generous handing out flowers
and kisses to the soldiers, tanned, laughing at the astonishment with which I showed her white teeth.

Another
day, had seen the most extraordinary events of the war. All cars rent, about two thousand vehicles,
loading battalions of Zouaves, to eight men for carriage and going at full speed, bristling with
guns and red caps. Formed on the boulevards a picturesque procession, a kind of endless wedding. And
the soldiers descended from the car in the same room for the battle,
firing and jumping off the bracket.

All men who knew how the gun Gallieni had launched against the extreme right of the enemy in the
supreme moment when victory was still uncertain and could smallest weight decide. Scribes of
military offices, ordinances, individuals from the police, gendarmes, everyone had left for the final
push, forming a heterogeneous mass of colors.

And on Sunday afternoon, when his three companions to "place" was sunbathing in the Forest Bologna
among thousands of Parisians learned from the special papers the fighting that had developed near
the city and was going away was a great battle, a victory.

- I've seen much, Madame Desnoyers ... I can tell great things.

And she approved: yes I had seen Argensola ... When he left he offered his support. He was
the friend his son and was accustomed to his requests. Times had changed, Don Marcelo was now a
boundless generosity ... But the bohemian interrupted her with a
lordly gesture: lived in abundance.

July he was appointed its director. The shift of America had been recognized by the Bank as
a deposit amount, and could have a both percent, according to the
decrees on the moratorium.

Her friend sent a check provided I needed money for the upkeep of
the house.

He had never been in a situation as well off.

The war also has its good ... But with the desire not be lost morality, announced it would
rise again by the back stairs to take a basket of bottles ...

Doña Luisa, after the departure of his sister, went alone to the churches,
until suddenly was seen with an unexpected partner.

- Mom, I'm with
you ...

Was Chichi, who seemed to feel an ardent devotion.

And did not encourage the house with loud and manly joy, no longer
threatened the enemy with stabs imaginary.

She was pale, sad, with eyes of blue haloed.

Bowed head as if gravitas across his forehead, a block of serious thoughts, completely new.

Doña
Luisa in the church watched with jealous spite. Her eyes were moist, as than she prayed fervently,
as she ... but it was probably his brother. July had passed into second place in their memories.
Another man in distress filled his mind.

The last Lacour was no longer a simple soldier and was in Paris.

Upon arriving in Biarritz, Chichi had listened eagerly exploits of his "soldier sugar. " He
wanted to know, throbbing with emotion, all the dangers to which he had been subjected and
the young warrior "ancillary services" spoke of his concerns at the
office during endless days in which troops fought near Paris, hearing
from outside the thunder of artillery.

His father had wanted to take him to Bordeaux, but the administrative confusion Late kept in the
capital.

Something else had done. The day of hard work, when the governor of the place in cars launched
valid to all men, had taken a gun, without anyone calling him, occupying a vehicle with others in
your office. I had not seen more than smoke, burned houses, killed and wounded. Not a single
German went before him, except to a group of prisoners Hulan. There been several hours lying
at a roadside shooting ... And nothing else.

For the moment, was enough to Chichi. She felt proud of being the girlfriend of a hero the Marne, but
its intervention would have been a few hours. But to pass the days, his character was overshadowed.

Bothered
him out into the street to René, soldier, and ancillary services
in addition ... The Village women, excited by the memory of the men
who fought in the front or dressed mourns the death of any of them
were aggressive insolence.

The delicacy and Republican Prince elegance seemed to irritate them. She heard repeatedly
passing thick words against "ambush."

The idea that his brother, who was not French, I was paddling, made him even more intolerable Lacour
situation. Boyfriend sought a "ambushed." I laugh at your friends! ...

The senator's son no doubt guessed her thoughts, and this made him
lose his peace of mind smiling.

For three days did not show up at the house of Desnoyers. Everyone thought he was held by a clerical
job.

One morning, speaking to Chichi Forest Avenue escorted by her maid
coppery, he saw a soldier who was walking toward her.

He wore a brand new uniform, the new blue-gray color "horizon", adopted
by the French army.

The chin strap of the kepi was gold and carried a small sleeves piece
of gold.

His smile, his outstretched hands, the safety coming towards her, did recognize. René official!
... Her boyfriend, Lieutenant!

- Yes, I can not anymore ... I've heard enough.

Behind the father and using his friends had done in a few days this transformation. As a student
at Central School, could be a second lieutenant in the reserve artillery,
and had requested that we send to the front.

After the auxiliary service!

... Within two days was about to leave for war.

- You have done
that! - Exclaimed Chichi -.

You made it! ...

He looked pale, with greatly enlarged eyes, eyes that seemed to devour
admiration.

- Come, my poor baby ... Come here, sweet soldier ...
I owe you something.

And turning his back to the girl, invited him to immediately turn a corner. It was the same:
cross street was as crowded as the avenue.

But the care they gave to it the curious! ... Vehemently, threw her arms around his neck,
blind and insensible to everything that was not him.

- Takes ... making.

Planted two kisses on her face violent, loud, aggressive.

Then, hesitating on his legs, suddenly faint, put her handkerchief to her eyes and began to mourn
desperately.

II

In the study

When you open a door later, Argensola stood motionless, as if the surprise would have nailed their
feet on the ground.

An old man greeted him with a friendly smile.

- I am the parent of July.

And he went forward with the confidence of a man who knows perfectly
where you are.

Fortunately, the painter was alone and did not need to run from one side to another hiding the
vestiges of a good company.

It took some time to recover from his emotion.

I had heard much of Don Marcelo and temper, which caused him great anxiety appear unexpectedly in
the studio ... What did the dreaded lord?

His quiet was to examine the sly reborn. He had long since aviejado beginning of the war. No
longer to the gesture of tenacity and humor that seemed to repel evil unto the nations. His eyes
shone with a childish joy, his hands trembled slightly; his back
hunched.

Argensola, who had fled always find him in the street and experienced greatest fears to climb the
back stairs of his home, now felt a sudden confidence. He smiled as to a comrade gave excuses for
his visit.

Wanted to see the home of his son. Poor old fellow ... He drew the same attraction love you,
to cheer his solitude, which includes the places frequented the beloved. It was not enough letters
of July: I needed to see their former home, rubbing all objects that had surrounded him, breathing
the same air, talking to the young man who was his intimate partner.

Painter noticed parental eyes ... "An interesting young man this Argensola."

And to think this did not remember the times she had called "rogue" without knowing, just because
accompanied his son into a life of reproach.

Desnoyers's gaze wandered with delight by the study. He knew the carpets, furniture, all the trimmings
from the old owner. The memory made things easy I had bought in his life, in spite of being
so. Her eyes now sought the personal, I could evoke the image of the absent. And the tables
were set just outlined, unfinished studies that filled the corners.

Everything was in July?

... Many of the paintings belonged to Argensola, but the latter, influenced the emotion of
the old, showed great generosity. Yes, all of July ... And the father was from painting to
painting, pausing with a look of admiration at the sketches more reports, as if sensing her confusion
in the disordered visions of genius.

- You have talent, right? -
Asked, pleading a favorable word -. I've always believed intelligent
... Some Devil, but the character changes over the years ... Now another
man.

And almost wept to hear how the Spanish, with all the vehemence
of his verbosity early enthusiasm, extolled the absent, describing
him as a great artist that astonished the world when you arrive on
time.

The painter of souls at the end he was so moved as the father.
Admire this old man some remorse. I did not want to remember what
was said against him in another era. What injustice! ...

Don Marcelo
grabbed his hand as a partner. Your child's friends were his friends.
He does not know how young people lived. If you ever had a trouble,
if I needed a pension to keep painting, he was there, eager to help.
For now, we hoped to eat at home that night, and if I wanted to go
every night, much better. Eat with your family, modestly, the war
had changed the customs, but would be in the privacy of a home, as
if you were at the home of his parents. Even spoke of Spain, to be
more pleasing to the artist. Had only been there once, briefly, but
after the war thought go everywhere. His father was Spanish, his wife
was of Spanish blood in his house Castilian as the language used for
privacy. Ah, Spain, past noble characters proud! ...

Argensola suspected
of belonging it to another nation, the old man would also praised.
This affection was not a reflection of the love of his absent son,
but he was grateful. And almost Don Marcelo embraced by saying goodbye

After
this afternoon were very frequent visits to the study. The painter
had to recommend to the friends a good walk after lunch, refraining
from appearing in the rue de la Pompe before night fell. But Don Marcelo
sometimes appeared unexpectedly morning, and he had to run from side
to side, covering here, removing further, to the shop retains a laborious
virtue.

- Youth ... Youth! - Murmured the old man with a smile of
tolerance.

And I had to make an effort to remember the dignity of
their years, not to seek to Argensola to submit to the fugitive, whose
presence glimpsed in the inner rooms. They were perhaps friends of
his son, were a part of his past, and this was enough to believe in
these great qualities that made them interesting