 Felt the need to breathe, to live in the scented environment that enveloped
her, following in his footsteps.

Seeing the captain reached out just the same as if they had seen the
day above.

- You will not complain, Ferragut!

... As I did not find the hotel, I felt the need to visit your vessel ... He wanted to know their
houseboat. All I care about you.

It seemed another woman. Ulises noticed the great change that had taken place in him Over the
past days. His eyes were bold, enticing, a tranquil immodesty. All it seemed to offer. Their
smiles, their words, their way of marching on the cover the chambers of the vessel, to denote a
resolution of an early end to his long resistance, yielding to the
wishes of the ocean.

Despite past failures, he felt again the joy of victory. "Now is to be! My absence has expired
... "And while savoring the sweet satisfaction love and pride of triumph, a vague instinct suggested
the suspicion that this woman suddenly transformed, you may want
less now than in previous days, when refused, advising him to flee.

In the dining room was the presentation of his second. The harsh glare Toni experienced the same
that had troubled to all of the ship. What a woman!

... In the first apologized and realized instantly the conduct of their captain. Then his eyes were
fixed upon her with an expression of alarm, as if his presence do
him tremble for the fate of the steam.

Ended up feeling embarrassed in front of this lady who was examining
the room as if it were to stay there forever.

Freya was interested a few moments for the hairy ugliness of Toni. He was a true Mediterranean
as she imagined them: a faun tracker nymphs.

Ulysses smiled at the praise directed his mate.

- Must be in the shoes - she went - a nice pezuñitas such as goats. You must know how to play
the flute. Did not think so, Captain? ...

The Faun, sulking and angry, finally leaving, waving awkwardly on exit. Ferragut was relieved with this
absence, fearing a dirty word Toni.

When left alone with Odysseus, ran from one side to another by the great camera.

- Here is where you live, dear shark? ... Let me see you all, that you register it. I'm interested
in him: he will not say now that I love him. What pride to Captain
Ferragut!

The ladies come to seek him in his ship ...

Stopped their chatter to defend ironic and gently loving sailor. This, forgetting the past and
wanting to take the happiness she gave him suddenly, he hugged the
visitor kissing her neck.

- Then ... then! - she sighed -.

Now let me see. I feel a curious child.

He opened the piano, piano poor Scottish captain, and a faint line and whimpering, detuning product
of several years, moved the room with the melancholy of revived memories.

The music was equal to that of melodic boxes that are forgotten in the bottom of a closet, among
the clothes of an old dead. Freya said that he smelled of dried roses music.

Then, abandoning the piano, opened one after another all the cabin doors giving the classroom. In
the master bedroom is stopped, not wanting to pass the threshold, hold brass latch held in his
right hand. Ferragut, behind her, pushed her to soft treason, while repeating his touch in
the neck.

- No, not here - she said -. Nothing in the world! ... I'll be yours,
I promise: I give you my word.

But wherever I want, when I look ... Soon, Ulysses!

He felt all the delight of these statements, made with a caressing voice and submissive; all
the pride of this familiarity spontaneous, equivalent to a first delivery.

The arrival of an acolyte of Uncle Caragol made them regain their peace of mind. He had two huge
cocktail glasses filled with red and sparkling, heady and sweet mixture,
summary of all knowledge acquired by Cook in his dealings with the
first drunk ports worldwide.

She tasted the liquid, squinting like a cat tooth. Then she burst into singing, raising his glass
in a dignified manner. Offered his libation to Eros, the most good of the gods. And Ferragut,
who had always felt a certain fear of hell and pleasing to the mixtures of cook, drained his glass
in one gulp, to join the invocation.

Everything was arranged between them. She gave the orders. Ferragut return to the land, apartments
in the same harbor. Continue their former life as if nothing had happened.

- This afternoon, I wait in the gardens of the Villa Nazionale ... Yes, wherever you wanted
kill me, villain! ...

Before he could evoke the image of that night of violence, came forward to Freya memories with
a cunning female ... Ulysses was the one who had wanted to kill her, I said it, without admitting
response.

- Go to visit the doctor - he continued -. The poor wants to see, and asked me to take you. Is
very interested in you since you know I love you, my pirate!

...

After fixing the time of the meeting, Freya wanted to go.

But before returning to his boat felt the curiosity to search the ship, and had registered
the room and cabins.

With an air of reigning princess, preceded and followed the captain of the officers, ran the
two decks, overlooks the iron galleries of the machines and the squared pit cargo hatch, getting
the musty smell of the cellars. On the bridge played with enthusiasm childish brass cap of
the blog and other management tools, bright as if they were gold.

Wanted to see the kitchen, or invaded the domains of Uncle Caragol, putting in an appalling mess formations
of pans, sticking his pink nose to the mouth of the large pot smoking in boiling lunch people.

The
old man could see her up close with their short-sighted eyes.

"Yes she was beautiful!" The fluttering of their Frequently encontrones skirts and took her
in his comings and goings through the kitchen disrupted the apostle. His eye for guisandero felt
bothered by the scent of this woman.

"Beautiful, but with the smell of ...», repeated mentally. For him, all women's perfume deserved
this title offensive. Women smell good to fish and to wool: he was sure of it ... In its distant
youth, the poor knowledge Caragol had not gone further.

When left alone, he grabbed a rag, shaking violently as if shaking off flies. Wanted clean
the air of odors. He felt shocked, as if they had dropped a bar of soap in one of its rice.

The
ship's men piled on the edges to follow the progress of the boat
pulled away.

Toni, at the foot of the bridge, also looked enigmatic eyes.

- Beautiful you are, but that the sea will swallow before you come
back!

...

An arm waved a handkerchief at the stern of the boat. "Farewell, Captain!" And the captain moved head,
smiling and excited about the women's greeting, while the sailors
envious good luck.

Another time a man of the crew carried luggage Ferragut the harbor
from the shore Santa Lucia.

The porter, as if sensing the inclinations of the client tips easy,
took care to choose his room one floor below the previous time, around
which occupied the signora Talberg.

Was found in mid afternoon at the Villa Nazionale, and waged together the march through the streets
of Chiaia. When Ulysses finally going to know where the doctor concealed his majestic personality.
Sensed something special in this space, but was willing to conceal her impressions, for fear of
losing the love and support of the wise lady, who seemed to have a large domain on Freya.

Entered the vestibule of an ancient palace.

Many times he had stopped the ocean before your door, but kept going, misled by the metal sheets
announcing offices and desks installed at various floors.

Saw an arcaded courtyard, paved with large slabs, which gave the balconies bellied on all four sides
inside the palace. They climbed a ladder of echoes awake, large as a sloping street, with width
riots in the past allowed the passage of berths and carriers. As a reminder of the characters
in white wigs and ladies guardainfante widths that had passed through it, there were some busts
in landings, a wrought iron railing hammer of gold and several fuzzy farolones and murky glass.

They
stopped at the first floor, doors to a row of some decayed over the
years.

- Here is - Freya said.

He noted specifically the only door that was covered with a green leather screen, displaying a commercial
sign, huge, golden, pretentious.

The doctor was staying in an office ... How He had come to find it!

The first piece was actually an office, a merchant's office, with box for papers, maps, safe
and several tables. One employee worked: a man of uncertain age, with boyish face and mustache
trimming. Their obsequious and smiling gesture contrasted with fleeting glance, a look of alarm
and distrust.

Seeing Freya rose from his seat. This Karl greeted him by calling
him, and passed on, as if a porter.

Ulysses, follow guessed fixed on their backs look suspicious the clerk.

- Is it also Polish? - Asked.

- Yes, Polish ... He is a protégé of Dr..

They entered a room furnished in a hurry, with special art and which
are easy accustomed to travel and have to improvise a home: sofas
with colorful Indian and cheap American guanaco skins, garish carpets,
a false Orientalism, and the sheets of newspapers from walls golden
rods.

On a table wearing their ivory and silver a great need to open the
leather cover.

A few statues were Neapolitan purchased at the last moment to give an air of respectability to
sedentary this room could quickly dispose, and which were most valuable
ornaments travel items.

Distinguished by a curtain parted to the doctor, writing in the next
room.

He was hunched over a desk America, but immediately saw in the mirror that was in front of her
to spy on what was happening behind him.

Ulises guessed that the lady had made some impressive toilet preparations to receive him. A narrow
dress as a cover molding the exuberance of its forms. The skirt collection and narrow at the
top of his legs, looked like the handle of a huge club. On the green Marine wore a white tulle
dress with silver sequins, as a shawl. The captain, notwithstanding his respect for the wise
lady, compared to a well-fed mother mermaid ocean meadows.

With hands outstretched and a joyful expression on his face, which was irradiated lenses, advanced
to Ferragut. Your encontrón almost was a hug ... "Dear Captain! Long !...» knew without seeing
him often, reports of her friend, but even so, sorry as a disgrace that the ocean had not come
to see her.

He seemed to forget his cold to leave in Salerno, care was taken to conceal the address of your
home.

Ferragut also agreed that, greatly moved by the kindness of the doctor. It was sitting between
them, as if to protect them with all the majesty of his person and
affection of his eyes.

She was a mother for her friend. Stroking, talking, tufts Freya's hair, which had just fought the
closure of the hat.

And Freya, adapting the tender atmosphere of the situation, will
ball up against the doctor, taking an air of girl timid, caressing,
while his eyes fixed on Ulysses sweet promise.

- You Want it very
much, captain - kept telling the midwife - Freya just talking about
you ... It was so miserable!

... Life has been so cruel to her! ...

The sailor felt the same excitement as if he were in a quiet family atmosphere. That lady was quietly
made things, speaking as a son.

His look of kindness had a melancholy expression. It was the sweet sadness of older people that
are monotonous This measured the future, and take refuge in the memories of the past, I envy the
young people because they can enjoy in reality what they savored
only in memory.

- Blessed are you!

... Love one a lot! ... Only love is worth the life is worth living.

And Freya, as if irresistibly softened to the above, and moved an arm corseted balloons to the doctor,
pressing convulsively the right hand of Ulysses.

The lenses of gold, with its brightness protector, seemed to encourage them to greater intimacy.
"They could kissing ... "The impressive lady, to facilitate its expansion,
was about to leave, citing a pretext insignificant, when it lifted
the curtain of the door between the room with the office.

A man entered the age of Ferragut, but lower in height, less hardened
face tanning by the weather.

He was dressed to the English with scrupulous correctness. Hinted at in the most trivial and
childish concerns at all about the trim of person.

The suit, gray flannel, appeared enhanced by the unity of the tie, socks and handkerchief
overlooking the breast pocket. The three pieces were blue, with no slightest variation in tone, chosen
with precision, as if this man could suffer cruel now out into the street with a color tie and
socks in another. Her gloves had the same dark yellow of his shoes.

Ferragut felt that this gentleman, to be complete, should bring his face shaved. And however, wore a
beard, a beard to the surface of the cheeks and forming the chin
short and sharp tip.

The captain felt he was a sailor. In the German fleet in Russian, in all North Sea, the officers
were not shaved to the English used this traditional chin.

He bowed, or better said, bent at an angle, with sudden stiffness, kissing hands the two ladies.
Then he took a monocle impertinent fixity to one of his eyes, while
Dr. made the presentations.

- Count Kaledine ... Captain Ferragut.

Count shook hands with the sailor, a tough, well maintained and strong that remained long while
on the Ulysses, wanting to dominate with a pressure no affection.

The conversation continued in English, which was the language used by the doctor in their relations
with Ulysses.

- "The Lord is ocean? - He asked for clarification.

Monocle not moved in its orbit, but a slight tremor of surprise seemed to ruffle his luminous convexity.
The doctor was quick to respond:

- The Count is a distinguished diplomat who is now on leave, caring
for your health.

He has traveled much, but it is not marine.

He continued his explanation. The Kaledine were a noble Russian family of great times Catalina.
The doctor, being Polish, I was connected with them for many years ... And stopped speak, giving
entrance to Kaledine in the conversation.

At first the count was cold and somewhat cavalier in his words, as
if he could shed of diplomatic arrogance.

But this pride went slowly melting.

Known for his "distinguished friend Mrs. Talberg" many of the nautical adventures Ferragut. He
wanted to know the men of action, the heroes of the ocean.

Ulises suddenly noticed his noble interlocutor warm affection, such a desire to please to the doctor.
Beautiful home that, in which all strove to be sympathetic Captain Ferragut!

The count, smiling graciously, left to fend English, and he suddenly spoke in Spanish, as if he
had booked this final blow to finish captured his affection with the most irresistible of flattery.

-
I lived in Mexico - said to explain his knowledge of the language -. I made a long trip to the Philippines
when I lived in Japan.

The seas of the Far East were the least frequented by Ulysses. Only twice had Chinese sailed
to ports and Nipponese, but knew enough to keep the conversation with this flyer showing some sophistication
in his tastes as an artist.

For half an hour paraded through the lounge atmosphere of vulgar
images of huge roof pagodas overlapping vibrating in the breeze, like
a harp, with its rows of bells, idols carved monstrous in gold, bronze
or ivory paper houses, bamboo thrones, furniture inlaid mother of
pearl, screens with rows of cranes flying.

Dr. disappeared, stunned by this dialogue, which could only guess at some words. Freya, still, with
the sleepy eyes and a knee between his hands crossed, he kept addition, understanding the
conversation, but without intervening in it, as if offended oblivion in which the two men left.
Finally he slipped quietly, following the call leaning a hand to
a curtain.

The doctor prepared the tea and asked for help.

The conversation continued without a halt in these absences.

Kaledine had abandoned the Asian seas to go to the Mediterranean, it was anchored to an insistence
admiration. Another reason of affection for Ferragut, who was increasingly
sympathetic, notwithstanding her try a little ice age.

Suddenly realized that was not the Russian count who spoke, as with brief and accurate questions
made him speak to him, as if he is subjected to review.

Appreciated the expressions of interest that this great traveler gave
the small mare nostrum, and especially by the particularities of its
western basin, which wanted to know thoroughly.

Could ask how I wanted. Ferragut had mile by mile all the Spanish coast, the French and Italian,
and on the surface and in its funds.

Kaledine, perhaps to live in Naples, insisted on the Mediterranean predilection between Sardinia,
Southern Italy and Sicily, or is what the ancients called the Tyrrhenian
Sea ... Did you know Captain Ferragut islands unfrequented and almost
forgotten across from Sicily?

- I know everything - he said proudly.

And fully discern whether it was curiosity or if the count would be subject to a review concerned,
talked and talked.

He knew the Lipari archipelago, with its mining of sulfur and pumice, group of volcanic peaks
rising from the depths of the Mediterranean. They were placed the former to Aeolus, god of the
winds in them is throwing huge balls Stromboli lava, bursting with
a roar of thunder.

The volcanic scoria fall back into the chimneys of the crater or roll down the slope of the mountain
sinking into the waves.

Further west, isolated and lonely in a sea clear of obstacles, is
Ustica, a volcanic island and abrupt that the Phoenicians settled
and served as a refuge for pirates Saracen.

Its population is scarce and poor. Nothing to do with it, apart from some fossil shells of interest
to men of science ...

But the count was interested in this crater, dead and alone in the middle of a sea only frequent
the fishing boats.

Ferragut had seen also, although by far, entering the port of Trapani, the archipelago of Egadi
where large tuna fisheries. Once he landed in Pantelleria island,
midway between Sicily and Africa.

He was a towering volcanic cone emerging in the middle of the strait, and at whose feet were
alkaline lakes, sulphurous smoke, hot springs and prehistoric building
blocks, like those of Sardinia and the Balearics. Ships to Tunis and
Tripoli were taking shipment of raisins, only export of this ancient
Phoenician colony.

Between Pantelleria and Sicily, the sea floor
rose considerably, saving on its back a water layer at some points
was only twelve feet thick. Was extensive bank called the Adventure,
swelling volcanic island flooded twice, submarine pedestal Sicily.

Also,
the bank appeared to interest the Count Aventura.

- Well you know
the sea - said in a tone of approval.

Ferragut was going to keep
talking, but the two ladies entered with a tray containing service
area and various dishes of cakes. The captain was no surprise that
lack of bondage. The doctor and his friend were to him a women of
extraordinary ways, and all the actions was logical and natural. Freya
served tea with modest grace, as if was the daughter of the house.

They
spent the rest of the afternoon talking on distant voyages. No one
mentioned the war or to the concerns of Italy at that time to maintain
their neutrality or leave it. Seemed to live in a place inaccessible
to thousands of miles around the human throng.

The two women tried
to count, with a familiarity of tone, as persons of the same world,
but the sailor thought he noticed at times that you were afraid.

By
late afternoon, this person left his seat, and Ferragut did the same,
comprising that would put an end to his visit. The count offered to
accompany him. While saying goodbye the doctor, thanking him with
extreme courtesy would have made known to the captain, he Freya felt
squeezed his hand significantly.

- After Dark - mumbled slightly,
without moving his lips barely -. Come back later ... Wait.

Oh, joy!
... The eyes, the smile, the pressure of the hand, saying to him more.

Never
got a ride as nice as they marched alongside Kaledine through the
streets of Chiaia toward the shore. What did this man? ... Little
things to keep silence, but he seemed to observations of deep wisdom.
His voice was, he said, harmonious and caressing. Everything was just
lovely, the people walking the streets, Neapolitan noise dark, dark
sea, the whole life.

They parted at the door of the hotel. The count,
in spite of his offers of friendship, went without saying what their
home.

"No matter - thought Ferragut -. Return home to find the doctor.
"

The rest of the evening was spent alternately agitated by hope
and impatience. No I wanted to eat, the emotion had paralyzed his
appetite ... And once seated at table, ate More than ever, with an
eagerness mechanical and distracted.

I needed to walk, talk to someone,
for the passage of time more quickly, deceiving his restless waiting.
She did not return to the hotel until very late ... And precisely
retired to his room earlier than usual, thinking, with an illogical
superstitious that this would come before Freya.

His first movement
was seen in his room with pride. Looked at the ceiling, pitying the
ocean love that one week before lived upstairs. Poor man! How they
had laughed it! ... Odysseus himself was admired as a completely new
personality, happy and successful, separated from each other by a
painful period of humiliations and failures did not want to remember.

Very
long hours of anxiously awaiting! ... Paced smoking, lighting a cigarette
in the rest of the former. He opened the window, wanting to erase
the scent of strong snuff. She just liked oriental cigarettes ...
And the acrid smell persists cigar Tan, juicy and brave, reached into
his bag of toiletries, spilling onto the bed fund several bottles
of essence long forgotten.

A sudden concern bitter waiting. Which
was about to reach what was perhaps unaware of their room. He was
not sure giving him the address with sufficient clarity. It was possible
that would have been wrong ... Began to believe that indeed he was
wrong.

The fear and impatience made him open his door, standing on
the porch to watch by far the closed room Freya