 

Suddenly saw the face of the dead placed in profile, with an eye that he twisted into graceful and
malignantly, like Eye of the morning was to look at his mistress while developing mysterious
dances in Asian housing.

Ulysses turned his attention to the temple pale ghost, tickled by the silky caress of their loops.
There he had his best kisses, kisses of tenderness and gratitude ... But soft skin, that seemed
made of camellia petals, his eyes darkened. It was green dark and dripping blood ... So I
had seen him again ... And he remembered with regret Barcelona its punch ... Then he started
with a deep hole, angular contour, equal to a star. It was the revolver bullet, the coup de grace that
gave an end to his troubles of execution.

Poor Freya, implacable warrior Crazy Battle of the Sexes!

... He had spent his life hating men and need to live, making everything possible and getting
it wrong reciprocity of them sad, until finally coming to perish at his hands.

Could not end otherwise. A men's right hand had opened the hole through which escaped the last
bubble of their existence ... The captain, seeing the pain profile with purple his temple,
he thought with horror that never get erased from his memory the
mournful vision.

The ghost would shrink, making it invisible, to deceive and then re-emerge in all its hours of
thoughtful solitude, was to embitter their sleepless nights, chasing
through years as well as remorse.

Fortunately, the impositions of real life were repelled in the days
following these sad memories.

"Well nobody is - said inside his usual energetic man authoritarianism to send men -. What would
you have made you to be part of the court which sentenced? ... Like the others. Think of those
who have died for it! ... Remember what Tony said! "

A letter from his former second, received at the same time as the champion of Freya, spoke of the
great crimes that aggression was conducting underwater in the Mediterranean.

Some

of them came to be known by the castaways managed to reach shore after long hours of fighting
or were picked up by other vessels. Most were ignored in the mystery of the waves. Were torpedoing
"without trace", ships that were to fund with all crew and passengers, and only months after
leaving a glimpse of a part of the tragedy, when deposited in the sea surf many bodies of identification
impossible without paper, without a human face.

Almost every week watching some of these findings Toni funeral.

Fishermen Dawn saw the tossing corpses on the beach, where water dies on sand resting a few seconds
in moist soil, to be caught by a wave then stronger. Finally, embedded in the ground behind him,
remaining motionless while fleeing their clothes and their flesh swarms of small fish back to
sea in search of new grass. The police discovered the mutilated bodies on the rocks in attitudes
tragic with glazed eyes almost out of their orbits.

Many of them were recognized as soldiers by revealing an old tattered uniform or the fixed identity
labels on their wrists. Belonged to France. The people of the coast spoke of the transport had been
torpedoed coming from Algiers ... And mixed with the Men find women's
bodies were distorted by swelling, to the point that only a few details
could guess your age: mothers who had arched her arms as if saved
with a last effort the missing child, girls whose shame Virgin had
been breached by the sea, showing their bare legs, swollen, greenish
with deep bites of fish butchers.

The marina expansion until the body was thrown a child a few years without a head.

It was more horrible, depending on Toni, watch this show from the
ground than going on a ship.

The sailing can not see the ultimate consequences of the torpedoes as well as those living
on the edge, receiving as a gift this continuous wave sending victims.

The pilot ended his letter with the usual prayers, "Why do you insist on follow the sea? ... Want
a vengeance that is impossible.

If you are a single man, and your enemies are millions ... You're going to die if you persist
in defying it. You know I look a long time, and do not always get get rid of them. Remember
what people are saying: "Whoever loves danger ...!» Lands; again with your wife or come with us.
So rich life on land could lead !...»

For a few hours, Ferragut was of the opinion Toni. His determination necessarily reckless was
to end badly. The enemy knew him, watched him, there were many before him, that lived alone
in his ship with a crew of men of different nationalities. No cry his death, apart from the few who
loved him.

Not belong to any of the people at war: Corsair was kind of impossible to attack. Fewer still,
a merchant who was transport under a neutral flag.

This flag does not fool anyone. His enemies knew ship, searching harder than if it originated
from allied navies.

In their own country, many people who sympathized with the Germanic Empires happily held disappearance
the Mare Nostrum and their captain.

Freya's death had affected his mind more than he imagined. Funeral was foreboding, perhaps his
next trip would last.

"You're going to die! - Shouted in his mind an anguished voice -. You will die very soon if
not you retire the sea. "

And the most unusual for this advice was Ferragut gave it the voice of the crazy adventures, threw
him on the dangers for the sake of challenge, which made him go to
Freya even after knowing their vile profession.

Instead, the voice of sanity, always cautious and measured, was now
quiet heroic, speaking the same as a man of peace who believes their
commitments over his life.

"Quiet, Ferragut, you sold your ship with your person and you have given millions. Must meet
As promised, although it will be there ... The Mare Nostrum can not surf without a Spanish
captain. If you abandon it, you'll have to find another captain. Flee in fear and put it on your
site to a man who defies death to keep his family. Gloriosa feat! ... You, meanwhile, will be on
land, rich and secure ... What are you going to do on land, coward?

"

Their selfishness does not know what to answer to that question. He remembered the existence
of bourgeois antipathy back in Barcelona, ??before acquiring the steam. He was a man of action,
and could only live engaged in risky ventures.

I was going to get bored on the ground, and at the same time be considered diminished, waived,
as that descend to a lower status in a country of hierarchies.

The master of life novel was going to be become a homeowner, without knowing other struggles
those held with his tenants. Perhaps, to escape a life vulgar, devoted his fortune to navigation,
the only business he knew well. Shipping would be acquiring new boats, and little by little, by
the need to monitor them closely, would eventually resuming their trips ... Why leave, then,
the Mare Nostrum?

He felt that was made inside a deep moral revolution to ask in anguish what they had done before.

It
seemed a desert all their previous existence. He had lived without knowing why or Why, piling
dangers and adventures just for the sake of victory. Neither knew with certainty what they had wanted
before.

If it was money, had flocked to his hands in recent months with an abundance exorbitant ... I had
it, and it was therefore not happy. As to professional glory, could not wanting it more. His
name was famous throughout the Spanish Mediterranean, even the toughest
sailors confessed and intractable merit.

"Floats !...» But Ferragut grimaced at the thought of him. I had known, and did not want to
find it again. Soft love a good partner, capable of illuminating the latter part of his life
with a discrete birth, had lost forever. The other passionate, sensuous, romantic, giving life
to the rough interest conflicts and contrast, had left him unwilling to restart.

Fatherhood, stronger and more durable than love, could have filled the rest of his days, had not
killed her son ... He was the revenge, the hard task of returning evil to the that much harm
had been done, but was too weak to fight them all! ... It was so small and selfish this purpose
compared to other enthusiasms that dragged to slaughter in those moments to great masses of
men! ...

While thinking this, he heard a phrase not remember where, perhaps formed waste readings of
old, began to sing in his brain: "A life without ideals is worth
living.

"

Ferragut nodded mutely. It was true: to live is needed ideal. But where to find it? ...

Suddenly saw Toni's report as well as he sought to express his confused thoughts. With all his
credulity and nonsense, now regarded as superior to him. Was an ideal his own way, is worried
more than their egos: men wanted for what considered good.

And he defended his convictions with all the mystical enthusiasm that History tried to impose
a belief, with the faith of the warriors of the Cross and the Prophet, with the tenacity of the
inquisitors and the Jacobins.

The man of reason, was only able to mock the generous and selfless
enthusiasm of other men, finding immediately turn skinny, lack of
adaptation to the realities of the moment ... What right have laughed
at his pilot, who was a believer and dreaming, with the purity of
a child in a free and happy humanity?

... What could oppose him to the faith, apart from their stupid jokes? ...

Life appeared in a new light, as something serious and mysterious that required a toll stress
tribute to all beings who pass through it, leaving behind him the cradle and the grave as an
inn bearing terminal.

Never mind that the ideal seems false. Where is the real truth and unique? ... Who can prove
that there is not an illusion? ...

The need was to believe in something, have hope. The crowds had not
moved to ever momentum and critical reasoning.

Only later when someone was throwing born in these illusions and hopes. Philosophers could
search in vain for the truth to light their reasoning. The rest of the men always prefer the ideals
chimeras, which Mobile morph into powerful action.

All religions crumbled after suffering a cold examination, yet producing saints and martyrs,
the true moral supermen. All revolutions were defective and ineffective to be subject to scientific
review, and yet had engendered individual's greatest heroes, the most amazing mass movements of
history.

"Believe! ... Dream! - Still singing in his mind the mysterious voice -. Having an ideal !...»

No
one could live, like the corpses of wealthy pharaohs, in a luxurious tomb, anointed perfumes,
surrounded by everything you need for food and sleep. Born, grow, procreate and die was not enough
to form a story: all the animals doing the same.

Man must add something else that only he possesses: the ability to imagine the future ... Dream!
Al illusions heritage bequeathed by the previous men had to add a new illusion or an effort to
make it.

Ferragut recognized that in normal times would have come to death as he had lived, following a
humdrum existence and uniform. But the violent changes of environment raised dormant personalities
in all of us, in memory of our ancestors, around a central character and awake, which is the
only one that has existed before.

The world was at war. Half of Europe's men clashed with the other half battlefields. Both sides
had a mystical ideal, affirming with violence and bloodshed, as they had done all the crowds driven
by religious certainty or revolutionary accepted as the only truth ...

But the sailor recognized a profound difference in the two struggling masses of this. One placed their
hopes in the past, trying to rejuvenate the sovereignty of force, the divinity of war, and adapt
to modern life.

The other crowd preparing for the future, dreaming a world of free democracies, nations at peace,
tolerance and without jealousy.

When coupled to this new environment, Ferragut felt born inside ideas and aspirations that may
come from an ancestral heritage.

Believed to be listening to his uncle when Triton described the shock of men with men North and
South to take ownership for Amphitrite blue layer. He was a Mediterranean, and the nation on the
edge of which was born lost interest in the fate of the world was not to remain indifferent.

Should
continue where it was. As Toni said Latino and Mediterranean civilization at now accepted
as great truths.

It may not be correct to be examined by reason, but worth as much as the certainties of others.

Was
to continue his seafaring life with new enthusiasm.

His faith, ideal, illusions that make them heroes. Duration of the war, would make his own way,
serving as assistant to the fighters, carrying everything needed for the fight. He looked with
more respect to the sailors under his command, simple people who had given their blood without
words, without reasoning.

When peace comes, why not retire from the sea. Much remained to be done. Start then a trade war,
the bitter rivalry to conquer the markets of nations American youth. Bold and big plans were
outlined in his brain. In this war as time was leader.

He dreamed of creating a fleet of steamers that arrived to the shores Pacific, wanted to make
a contribution to the rebirth of the race victory he had discovered most of the planet.

His new faith made him more friend to the cook of the ship, feeling the pull of immovable illusions.
Occasionally amused consulted on the future fate of the steam would
whether the submarine was fearful.

- Do not worry - said Caragol -.

We have good guards. Which put before us is lost.

And his captain showed the prints and postcards stuck on the walls of the kitchen.

Ferragut received an order from tomorrow. For the moment, went to Gibraltar to collect the burden
of a steamer was unable to follow your navigation. Strait may hiciesen
Salonica course again.

Never took a trip with so much joy the captain of Mare Nostrum. Believed to ground forever
the memory of that woman to be executed, whose body he saw in his sleep many nights. Of all the past,
all he wanted to transplant to his new existence was the image of
your child.

I was going to live henceforth concentrate their aspirations and
their hopes in the mission that had been imposed.

It took the ship directly from Marseille after San Antonio, far from
any coast, the solitudes of the Mediterranean, bypassing the Gulf
of Lion.

One day, at dusk, the crew saw blue mountains in the distance: the island de Mallorca. At night
he crept along the dark horizon headlights Ibiza and Formentera. As the sun rises, a splash
of pink vertical, equal to a language fire, appeared on the line of the sea. It was the high
mountains of Monge, the promontory Ferrario of the ancients. At the foot of steep cliffs was
the people's grandparents Ulysses the house where he had spent the best time of their childhood.
Just had to see it from afar Marsilia Greeks, Mediterranean desert
explorers, arriving on their ships jumping horses foam and wood.

All the rest of the day left the Mare Nostrum almost stuck to the coast. The captain knew this
sea ??or a lake if your property.

Took the steam for insufficient funds, finding the reefs so close to the surface, it seemed
a miracle that the ship does not crash into them. Only a couple of yards were between the
keel and submerged rocks. Then the golden water took a dark tone, and steam continued their
advance on enormous depths.

The autumn sun reddened the yellow mountains of the coast, dry and fragrant, covered brave herbal
perfumes that spread long distances.

In all folds Coast - small inlets, dry beds of streams between two peaks or notches - arose
clusters of white settlement.

Ferragut looked at the people from their grandparents.

Toni was there, maybe they looked to move from the door of your home, perhaps recognizing the ship
with surprise and emotion.

A French officer with Ulysses still on the bridge, admiring the beauty
of the day and the sea.

Not a cloud in the sky was blue all up and down, with no other alteration
to the fringes foam in the outgoing combing the sea and the restless
sun gold forming a wide path on the water.

Trisco a flock of dolphins around the ship and processions of the divine ocean.

- If you always were and the sea - said the captain - what a delight to be a sailor!

The crew watched from the rail to the people of earth to run and join,
attracted the novelty of a passing steamer reach of their voices.

In all the highlights of coast arose a tower flat and reddish, the last vestige of the ancient Mediterranean
war.

Accustomed to the rough shores of the ocean and its eternal surf,
sailors Breton admired the easy navigation almost touching the coast,
its inhabitants see the size of ants.

Directed by another ship captain would have been dangerous to surf so close. But Ferragut laughing,
making gloomy indications that the officers were on the bridge, to better highlight their job
security. Indicated the pitfalls in the background. Here we had lost an Italian ocean liner that
was going to Buenos Aires ... beyond a sailboat four clubs had run aground, losing its cargo ...
He knew by inches water could be among the treacherous rocks and
the keel of his ship.

Sought to fund more disturbing predilection.

Were in the danger zone of the Mediterranean where German submarines
were still waiting for the French and English trains they were sailing
in the shelter of the Spanish coast.

Obstacles to the coast were submerged for him the best defense against
unseen attacks.

Fading behind him was the promontory Ferrario, until it is but a shadow in horizon. Paraded before the
steam along the coast of the Marina, then, Cape Huertas, the distant port of Alicante and Santa
Pola Cape.

At nightfall, the Mare Nostrum was off Cape Palos, and had to sail offshore to fold, leaving Cartagena
the distance. From here would southwesterly to Cape Gata, which begins to narrow the Mediterranean,
forming a narrow funnel. Then would to Almeria and Malaga, reaching to Gibraltar the next day.

-
This is where hope is often the enemy - Ferragut said to one of the
officers -.

If you do not have a bad match before the night, we will complete our trip perfectly.

The ship was off the coast, no longer make out the sea floor. Only bow to the back remained
visible protrusion out, emerging as an island.

Caragol appeared with a tray on which two cups of steaming coffee.

Would not yield to any scullion the honor of serving the master when he was on the bridge.

-
What do you think your trip? - Ferragut said cheerfully before drinking
-.

Will we get it? ...

The chef made a gesture of contempt, as if the Germans could see him.

-
Nothing will happen I am sure of it ... We who watch over us, y. ..

It was interrupted in these statements. The tray slipped from his
hands, and staggered like a drunkard, to crush his abdomen against
the railing of the bridge. "Christ of Grao !...»

A Ferragut also
dropped the glass in her mouth, and the French officer, sitting in
a bank, almost doubled over the knees. The helmsman had to grab at
the wheel a twitch of surprise and terror.

The whole ship shuddered
from keel to tip of the cap, the bow at the helm, with a shudder mortal,
as if invisible tongs had just lock it in the race.

The captain tried
to explain this accident. "We stuck - he said -, a hurdle that no
I know, something that is not in the cards ... "

But he had not spent
one second when something came to be added to this clash, belying
Ferragut assumptions. The bright blue sky and crumpled under the blow
of thunder. Near the bow there was a column of smoke, expanding gases,
vapors yellow and caps, rising through its center, fan-shaped jet
black objects, wood broken pieces of sheet metal, swollen strings
that dissolved into ashes.

Ulysses and did not hesitate. Just received
a torpedazo. Her anxious eyes were scattered on the water.

- There!
... There! - Said extending a hand.

His eyes had just discovered
the ocean slight trace of a periscope that no one could see.

He got
off the bridge, or rather, let it roll down the ladder, running aft.

-
There! ... There!

The three gunners were next to the cannon, calm
and phlegmatic, clapping a hand to eyes to better see the point of
almost invisible to them by their captain ...

None of them noticed
the inclination to start taking the cover slowly. Introduced the first
bullet in the chamber, while the pointer was trying to distinguish
that small black stick lost in the water ripples.

The ship returned
to suffer another shock as tough as the previous. All he groaned with
a shudder dying. The plates were shaking, losing the cohesion that
made them one piece. The screws and bolts shaking pulse jumped to
general. A second crater opened in the middle of the ship, taking
this time in the range of human limbs shredded blast.

Captain guessed
that resistance was futile. His feet seemed to tell the cataclysm
that developed under them: the invading liquid with sparkling whirlwind
space moo between keel and deck, destroying the metal screens, breaking
down the gates security, cluttering objects, dragging all the violence
of a flood with the blow of a dam that breaks. The cavity filled with
air, floating and light, was about to become a lead coffin and water,
going to the fund.

The stern gun launched the first shot. A Ferragut
the boom seemed ironic. No as he realized the condition of the ship.

-
To the boats! "- Shouted -. Everyone to the boats!

Steam was leaning
at an alarming rate, while the men obeyed this order without losing
his composure.

A desperate shake shook the roof