 From afar it looked Benina motionless
drooping head. After a while, he fell on the floor, and there I saw all afternoon bystanders
sitting mute, black outstretched hand.

Nina did not find the big news at home, as such, does not have the happy Doña Paca, who never ceased
to praise the fineness of his guest, and the grace with which the conversation brought memories
of Algeciras and Ronda. He felt the good woman transported to its green years, almost forget
their poverty, and moved the generous instinct in that first age had been improvident foundation
of his character and his misfortunes, which proposed to Nina for
Frasquito bring two bottles of sherry, turkey in aspic, egg yolk,
and boar's head.

"Yes, ma'am -" said the maid -: all this will bring, and then we go to jail, to save shopkeepers
to take the job. But have you gone mad?

For tonight I will a garlic soup with eggs, and St. Sacabo.

Believe me, you know that gentleman to glory comistrajos used as
is indecent.

- Well, woman.

Do whatever you want.

- Instead of boar's head, will head of garlic.

- I think, with your permission, that in all circumstances, even sacrificing,
should a act like he is.

In short, how much money we have?

- That you do not mind.

Leave it all to me, and I know dress.

When finished, you are not who has to go get it.

- Yeah, I know you and go look for it.

I'm no good.

- If you serve, and now, help me peel these potatoes.

- Whatever
you want.

Ah ... I forgot. Bottle drink tea ... and as is so delicadillo, must bring good.

- The best.

I'll get him to China.

- Do not laugh. Go to the store and ask the called Mandarin. And while you bring a quesito good
for dessert ...

- Yes, yes ... take you and does not spill.

- You see that you are accustomed to eating in big houses.

- Just: as Boto's Tavern, across the street from Ave Maria ... ration of stew, a real; with
bread and wine, thirty-five cents.

- You are today ... I can not endure. But every avenge me, Nina. You command.

- Oh, if I did not send, would run pretty! Already we have taken to San Bernardino or very Pardo.
"

Joking and it was evening, and dine frugally, happy three and resigned
to poverty, bad tolerable and bearable when not needed a piece of
bread and to kill hunger.

And the historian should be noted also that the good climate in Doña Paca was a little twisted
collected both in the bedroom, the lady in your bed, Benin on the floor, having given Frasquito
his bed. Zapata's widow was so mercurial genius, in an instant, without to know the reason, the
goodness went from calm to insane rage, of childish credulity a crafty distrust of reasonable
words the most absurd nonsense. Knew very well bred this easy turning of the mind and the will
of his wife, whom compared with a weathervane, and without taking to heart their displeasure
and a fit of rage, he hoped that the wind changed. Indeed, this varied from suddenly veering
to the quadrant good, and if in a moment had become purple thistle, later returns to his first condition.

The
Dona Paca cranky at night I mean it must be attributed, according to reliable, to Frasquito, in
his talks in the afternoon, and the times for dinner and desktop
This showed a preference for Benina that deeply hurt the pride of
the widow unhappy.

A good Mr. Benina expressed his gratitude almost exclusively, reserving for lady a polite deference,
for Benina were all smiles, his most ingenious the tenderness of his languid eyes, and medium
ram die and many indiscretions Ponte joined to call the angel as a hundred times in the course
of the frugal meal.

And with that, listen to Doña Paca, tucked between the sheets, while the other was sleeping in floor:
"Well, daughter, no one out of my head that you have given a potion to this poor guy. Go how you
want!

If you were not an old ugly and without any grace, believe that you had ding made ... True that
you are good, charitable, you know to gain sympathy by how well attend
to everything, and for your sweetness and that modito soft ... that
it could mislead those who do not you know ... But with all those
clothes, impossible for a man so corrido garment you ... If you believe
and why you are inflated with pride, my view is that you do not compose,
Poor Nina.

You'll always be what you were ... and I fear not that quite a D.
Bottle illusion, telling your bad habits, what you were ssion, and
other stuff, other stuff that you know, and I ...».

Benina silent, covering her mouth with a sheet, and this humility and moderation lit more the rencorcillo
Zapata's widow, who continued molesting her companion: "No one recognizes like me your good qualities,
because you have, but we must always put away do not let you out of your low status, so you
do not lawless, so you will not upload to the higher beard. Remember the two times I had to
kick you out of my house ... ssion To that end comes your impudence, what do I say chutzpah?
your cynicism at the ugly vice, which ... go, I've never made an account, I like seeing my money
going out of my pocket to yours ... continuous jet! ... But what? Do not say anything? ...
Have you no answer? Have you gone mute?

- Yes, ma'am, I have become mute - was the only response from the good woman -. Maybe when the
lady is tired and shut up, open it to tell me ... In short, do not say anything. "

XXVI

"Ja, ja ... Say what you went Doña Paca ...-- -. Would you dare to say something offensive
Me? Do not have known how to take Charge and Data! So what? Who ever told you that the ladies are
a bookkeeper? Failure to keep accounts or target anything, it was just the natural way my boundless
generosity. I let everyone I stole, I saw the thief's hand getting
into my pocket, and I was the fool ... I have always been so.

Is this sin?

The Lord forgive me. What God does not forgive, Benin, is the hypocrisy, the procedures with
overlapping, and study with some people make up their acts to look better what they are. I've
always been the soul of my face, and I presented to the eyes of the
world as I am, as it was, with my faults and qualities, just as God
made me ... But You have nothing to answer to me ... Or do you not
think of anything to defend?

- Madam, scallops, because I'm asleep.

-
No, you do not sleep, is a lie: the conscience will not let you sleep.

Acknowledge that I have reason and that you are of which are made
to disguise and hide their evil ... I will not say they are very evil,
so no. I am generous in this as in everything, and say weaknesses
... but What weakness!

We are fragile, you can truly say, "Do not call me Benina but ...». Fragility But do not worry,
because you know that I have to go with Mr. de Ponte stories to desprestigiarte, and pluck the flower
of his dreams ... What a laugh! ... Not seeing you, as you can not see, an elegant figure,
not a fresh, rosy face, and fine manners, no education for women, or anything like that, which
is why men fall in love, you've seen ... What? By God I fail. If you were honest, you're not,
nor ever will be ... Do you hear what I say?

- Yes, madam, I hear.

- If you were honest, I would say that Mr. de Ponte angel calls you by how well you do the garlic soup,
acartonaditas ... And do you think to yourself that this is sufficient reason for a angel woman
called out in full?

- But you do not care? ... Let Mr. de Ponte Delgado put the nicknames I want.

- You're right, yeah, yeah ... Can I say it ironically, that these big shots, very tanned in
society, often employ irony, and when we seem to worship, what they do is to take hair, as they
say ... For if man is on the right, and has smitten you with good order ... that everything could
be Benina ... things are very rare ... you must proceed with loyalty, and confess your macules,
Frasquito will not believe that the purity of the angels Heaven is anything compared to your purity.
If you do not, you're a bad woman ... The truth, Nina, in these cases the truth. The man believed
that you are a prodigy conservation, ha, ha ... you've done a miracle, because miracles would,
in the midst of life in Madrid and the kind of domestic service, a virginity of sixty years
... You plantarte in fifty-five, if you should ... But if you cheat on age, this is fraud very
common in our sex, jokes do not go with what is moral law, Nina, why not. Look, daughter,
I love you very much, and as a lady friend of yours and I advise that you speak clearly, tell
you your faults and falls. So the good Lord will not call hoax, they
walk the time you discover what her to hide.

No, Nina, no, my dear, tell all, although I get my face very red,
and congested the wart you carry in your face.

Confess your severe lack of those times, when thirty-five years ...
and have value for say, "Mr. D. Bottle, I wanted a civilian guard
was called Romero, who took me disordered over two years, and finally
refused to marry me ...».

We, women, not for you wear scarlet. After all, what was it? Love a man. As for women that have
come into the world to love men. You had the misfortune to stumble with one, you went wrong.
Matter of luck, my dear. This is you were crazy about him ... I remember well. I could not
stand, did not do anything right. Sisabas a great time, and while you did not have a decent suit,
he did not lack good cigars ... To me, he saw your sufferings and your blindness, as tormented
and without a quiet day, instead of fleeing of punishment, going to him for me, I saw all this,
nobody has to tell me, Nina. I know history, but not know the whole entire thing because I've always
hidden ... and I reported things I do not know if they are true or not ... They told me that
you had your love ...

- That's not true.

- And you threw it to the Foundling ...

- That's not true - he repeated with emphasis Benina firm and sonorous voice, sitting up in bed. To
hear, suddenly stopped Doña Paca, as the little mouse that night,
feeling constantly gnaw steps or the man's voice.

Was heard only, for a long time, the occasional sigh very profound for the lady, who then began
to complain and grumble under his breath. The other is not complaining. Quick crisis had made
the genius of the unhappy lady, determining a sharp turn of vane. Trocáronse anger and displeasure
to the point tenderness and affection. Occur soon the clearest symptom of sedation, he was a keen
remorse of what he had said and shame to remember, did not mean anything because the grunts, and complain
imaginary pain. As Benina not respond to these demonstrations, Doña Paca, and about midnight, it
started to call her "Nina, Nina, if you only knew how bad I am! What a nochecita I'm going!
Looks like I applied a hot iron on the side, and tear me to pulling the leg bones. I have
the head as if I had got the brains, putting in place of bread crumbs and parsley finely chopped ...
Not bothered, I have not told me make a cup of lime, rub me back
and give me a ballot salicylate bromide, or sulphonal ... This is
horrible.

You sleep like a basket. Well, woman, rest, a little fat ... I do not want to bother. "

Without a word, Nina left the pallet, and throwing a skirt, made the cup tila in economic stove,
and before or after giving medicine to the sick, and then rubs, and
finally went to bed with her to coo like a child, until getting sleep
it off.

Mrs. Longing forget his previous rant, I thought the best way was
clear loving the evil expressions of ideas before, and so, while his
companion cooed, he would say: "If I did not have you I do not know
what would happen to me.

And then I complain to God, and say things and to insult him as if
he were a nobody.

I really deprived of many goods, but I have given your company and
friendship, which is worth more than gold and silver and shiny ...
Y I remember now, what do you advise I should do in case of renewed
D. Francisco Morquecho and D. José María Porcell embassy with that
inheritance?

...

- But, Madam, if thats what you dreamed ... and such men are a thousand
years achantaditos very underground.

- You are right: I dreamed ...
But if not those, others might come to the same music the best day.

-
Who says no? Have you ever dreamed you with empty boxes?

Because this is a sign of inheritance safe.

- And you, what you dream?

- Me? Last night we were with a black bull.

- So that means that we will discover a hidden treasure ... Look you,
who tells us that this old house, once inhabited the rich merchants,
there is within such partition wall or a pot full of pelucones well?

-
I have heard tell that in the last century lived here a few stockists
of cloth, powerful and when he died ... no money was not found.

It may be that the paninis. There have been cases, many cases.

- I have certainly money is on this farm ... But you know where they hid démontrer these indinos.
Is not there a way to find out?

- I do not know ... I do not know!
- Benina murmured, letting fly his mind wander to the eastern spells
proposed by Almudena.

- And if the walls do not, under the tiles
of the kitchen or pantry can be what these gentlemen hid, thinking
that they would enjoy in the afterlife.

- May be ... But it is more
likely to be in the walls, or a guess, on roofs, including beams ...

-
I think you're right.

The same can be up than down. I assure you that when strong floor in hallways and dining room,
and swept through the mansion as if to collapse, I think I feel a ruidillo ... metal and they
sound and they ding ... Have not you felt?

- Yes, ma'am.

- And if not, try it now.

Date walks around the room, stomping, and hear ...».

Benin and his wife obeyed his command, with no less conviction and faith that she, in effect ...
heard a metallic clang, which could not only come from the huge amounts of silver and gold
(probably more gold than silver) embedded in the ancient factory.

This illusion both asleep, and dreams were still hearing the ting, ting ...

The house was like a huge body, sweating, and each of its infinite
pores let go one ounce, or center, or twenty-one and a quarter penny.

XXVII

In the early morning the next day was Cambroneras Benina way, with his basket on his arm thinking,
not without concern, in the exaltation of the good Almudena, which would lead to early madness,
if she, with her very quick, he could not restrain the right. Below the Puerta de Toledo and
found the other poor Burlada calling a stubborn child. Said to her fellow parishioners who had
moved his home to the Bridge, not being able to fix in the kidney of Madrid with the high cost
of rent and the meanness of the fruit of charity. In a shack by the river gave accommodation for
little more than nothing, and this advantage united to ventilate the field trips that gave morning
and afternoon, the river and point to point river. Asked by Benin on the Moor and his blind
housing, replied that it had seen near the fountain, past the bridge, asking, but did not know
where he dwelt. "Well, with God, madam - said goodbye Burlada -. Are not you going to the point
now? I do ... because although little is gained, there is a settlement. Now I have every evening
a good Platão ca food on Mr. Banker, who lives very entrance facing the street las Huertas,
and live as a canon, enjoying to see how he sharpens the snout to
the Caporal when the girl Mr. banker takes me my big cazolón of edible
... In short: with this and something goes down, live, Dona Benin,
and can be a bug in the rich.

Goodbye, which have fun, and find your health Moor ... Well, preserved. "

Followed each his due, and the entrance of the bridge on the road and ran Benina declining that
to the right leads to the suburb called Cambroneras, to the left bank Manzanares, at low land.
As he found a small square, bordered on the west side by a common building, the south by the
railing of the bridge abutment, and the other two unequal sides sandy slopes and embankments,
are born wild thorns, thistles and stunted grass. The site is colorful, airy, and might almost
say happy, because since it is dominated by the green banks of the river, washing and dish clothes
tenderijos thousand colors. To the west stands the mountains, and the opposite bank of the
river cemeteries San Isidro, San Justo, offering a spectacular view to both tuft of cemeteries
and both dark green cypress ... The melancholy inherent in the cemeteries not deprive them in
that picture, its decorative nature, as a good backdrop added by
man to Nature.

To descend slowly toward the square, he saw the beggar two donkeys ... What do I say two? eight
ten or more donkeys, with their angry red collars, and with them groups of Gypsies sunbathing,
which flooded the neighborhood with its radiant light, cheerful giving shine to were adorned with
colorful gross and people. In the animated huddles all was laughter, chacota, running to and
fro. The girls jumped, the boys ran in pursuit; the children, dressed in rags, tumbled, and donkeys
were kept only serious and reflective in the midst of unrest and commotion. Old gypsy women,
some tanned complexion and black circle gossiping in separate Grandón arrimaditas the building,
a house regular racer look. Two or three girls wash cloths in the middle puddle of the square
is formed with escurriduras and waste from the local source. Some of these girls were very dark
skinned, almost black, which highlighted the filigree hanging their ears, others color of mud, all
agile, graceful, and drop-waisted esbeltísimas language. He sought the old familiar faces among
those people, and look around here and there, thought he recognized a gypsy who had once been
in the hospital, going to pick up a friend of hers. He would not approach the group in which such
other disputed on a donkey whose sores were the subject of lively discussion, and waited a favorable
opportunity. This was soon come, because entangled two churumbeles clean punch, the one with legs
open from top to bottom, showing the black cops, the other with a sort of turban on his head, and
all dressed in a man's sweater: the gypsy came to separate; ayudole Benin, and Immediately
afterwards he holed in this way:

"Tell me, good friend, have you seen around here yesterday and today to a blind man they call Almudena
moro?

- Yes, ma'am: halo seen ... jablao with him - said the gypsy, showing two teeth racing ideal
because of their whiteness, equality and perfect preservation, which
highlighted within the case two large, fleshy lips, a violation retinto
-.

We saw in the bridge ... she said she dende dwelling houses last night Ulpiano ... and ...
I do not know what else ... Desapártese, good woman, this beast is many inconsiderate, and kicks
...».

Benina fled from the chair, looking around him the great hind
legs of a donkey, two peas beaten, and to know the tricks and his
education asses and gitanesca, and went to the houses that he motioned
that of perfect teeth