 Mr. hobbies more. So when I was young, and I will not change. So I fell in love,
so I wanted to, so you married me. "

Doña Beatriz did not know what to say after all, was silent, and let
go as you don Braulio wanted.

That night, therefore, made no comment on the suit of Mr. Braulio,
but not left to tie it graceful loop of the tie, or stroking her hair,
put ointment and combing the best she could.

The three took a stroller with mustache and went to the Gardens. Along the way, said Don Braulio:

-
I think, and I'm sorry that you are going to annoy. We have no friends. Do not even have known.
In the midst of the hubbub going to be like a desert.

Who is to tell? Who is to approach us?

- Men, do not worry for so little - answered Dona Beatriz -.

If you do not know anybody, if no one speaks, well that neither you
nor I know yet of memory.

Talk, we tell new things, we shall the gathering of the three, we'll
hear the music and cool.

- To take the air - said Don Braulio - the
same is to go there than the Prado.

- And still save money for the
tickets - Beatriz said.

Ines was silent, and left to continue the dialogue between husband and wife.

- I do not mean expenditure poverty, Beatriz. You know that I'm not mean, though I am poor.

-
I know. I suspect not think it hurts to spend money on gifts. I say no irony. I say this only to
realize that, view things as you see them, is silly go to the Gardens, but I, and Agnes certainly
more than I see them through another prism. We like to see people,
but not repaired by us.

The animation, joy, entertainment Luxury recreate us. Although we do not forge the illusion or
hope or even desire be seen and admired, want to see and admire the show, the beauty and elegance
of others.

- You're right, my dear, you're right. I forget you're a girl. Your tastes are as a girl. Mal did in
marrying a man ... and an old poor and obscure. Would you be called and held for you, leaving
your husband in his dark and poverty? Would you that I came to be known as the husband of Dona Beatriz?

-
I do not want, or that is possible. Everyone who knows me will know you, and, knowing, estimarte
can not but by what you're worth that much, and not because you are my husband. Those who are
known only as husbands is because otherwise they do not deserve to be. No one would remember
of them but for their wives. As for your age, your darkness and your poverty, I fall in love
again, well you know, that youth, brilliance and wealth in any other.

If something is worth my love, it bathes your soul and feel rejuvenated. Do not talk to me
sometimes the sweet light of my eyes? For lights that light your darkness. Did not you say
that my love is a treasure?

Well, how dare you, ungrateful, to argue that you're poor?

Don Braulio, who was sitting in the mustache, hearing phrases such as loving mouth linda could
not contain his excitement, he burst into tears, holding the hand of his wife, kissed passionately.

Doña
Beatriz in her hand felt a tear fell on it to give the kiss Don Braulio.

Then Beatriz said:

- Now, now ... let's not childish.

Do not test me now because you are old, but children are much more
than me.

Let us rejoice, and let's have fun serenémonos far as possible.

Let us apply to this case the proverb that says: "In the poor house
burst better no excess.

"It is necessary to get good juice to pesetillas we're going to spend. Well not so! It would be
wasteful spending and not make fun of course.

Don Braulio calmed down following the advice of his wife tried to
smile and appear happy, and even excited Inesita his wife and to have
fun.

Thus came to the Garden, took notes and entered.

VIII

That night in the Gardens had more people than usual.

Some sat in chairs in groups, dances and small gatherings, others were turning by the circular
walk, at whose center is the kiosk of the orchestra. This touching,
with enough Masters, the final round of Cenerentola.

Our Don Braulio and girls did not see a single familiar face.

Instead of sitting began to rotate through this competition.

Don Braulio soon noticed that although no one knew, was not the same
one that accompanied walk women as beautiful.

That was far from looking like a desert.

Often, especially when passing groups of men, reached the ears of
Don Braulio vague murmurs flattering, and occasional words and even
whole sentences of admiration and commendable.

In Spain, I will not get to moralize about it or to decide whether it is right or wrong, but men
without believing that offend, often woo the way to the ladies, in
particular when they are alone.

On this occasion, or not look at Don Braulio, or give little importance
to him, judge or distracted and not hear, and Ines Beatriz collected
good crop of compliments.

Both made the collection such as cold and impassive dignity, soon,
as if Word's out that these creatures did not ask for war, the compliments
ended, but not ended the open road as they passed them.

Also followed the buzz of excitement and sympathy.

They had already given three times our girls, when a group of young elegant spotted both at
the same time the Count of Alhedín. Inesita kept his composure Olympic Beatriz became very red.

-
Did you see the Condesito? - Told Inesita ear.

- Ay, ay, what are you wearing red!

Another new wave of blood red rose then the face of Dona Beatriz, who became more colorful.

-
You are like a poppy - Ines said.

The group who had seen the Count coming toward them from the front. The count was no doubt happen next.
Who knows if they speak?

Who knows if we will say a word bold, Don Braulio hear? Perhaps this suspicion was as red as Dona
Beatriz.

It was singular that the Count suddenly disappeared from the group, which, to meet our heroines,
was opened to let them pass, hearing both sides flattering and respectful
murmurs, similar to those of other people had already heard them.

Ines said the cloth to his sister:

- Where has slipped the Condesito?

- Who knows - Beatriz said.

- Well, sister, I can not tell with your eyes all that I recommended last night to tell him.

They
had not gone a long way after this short dialogue, when they saw a circle, where many people
were sitting, stood up and said a lady elegant, although somewhat
buxom.

There was thickened, and retained their thinness and much of its beauty, despite the years. Was
not galas, the place unfit for public, but all I was wearing was exquisite taste, rich without
being gaudy.

Instead of the blanket had hat. His face was funny. His complexion rosy, if somewhat brown.
On his face two beautiful spots, like two clumps of bamboo in a meadow flowers. His eyes, large and
fulmineo, flashed more thanks to the fence that was dark painted her eyelids. His waist was majestic
pair lightweight and flexible. In short, all the poise and appearance of this lady who was a
lionne denote a real salience of the court.

What was the astonishment of Agnes and Beatrice when they realized they had been smitten salience
them! A gentleman of twenty to thirty years, carrying a coat and with a little box followed
her like a lacayuelo.

Just got the lady stood before Beatrice looked at her tenderly, and exclaimed: "Dear mine! "threw
her arms around his neck and kissed her on both cheeks.

Beatrice stood for a moment looking for anyone who touched her. Recognizing at last he said: "Rosita,
'and he paid her kisses with others.

Perhaps the patient reader curious to know and remember the story
of Dr. Faustino has fallen into who was Rosita.

Rosita Gutierrez was the famous daughter of the clerk of Villabermeja, that makes such an important
role in that history. [*]

[*: See The Illusions of Doctor Faustino novel.]

Rosita seemed immortal, as preserved. Far from losing with age, could ensure I had won.

Little by little had been molding and adjusting for such art to the use of the most elegant Madrid,
which hardly anyone dared not call her the "Queen of kitsch," which was given that initially gave
him.

Her husband had business wise, and had also benefited more. Both spouses had become very aristocratic,
religious and conservative. Idolized Pius IX, had a title Roman. Condes de San Teódulo were. Had
been in devout pilgrimage to Lourdes and Rome and then had brought several relics of that holy,
which had been one of the six thousand martyrs of the Theban Legion, and by that, it was proven
with evidence that was natural of the greatest people in the district where Rosita's husband
used to go deputy.

With the relics brought by the pilgrims said the effigy of San Teódulo, and everything carried
the village, where there was an immense joy and celebrations boisterous. Nothing more natural,
after this, that Rosita and her husband were to become Condes de San Teódulo.

However, not content with being Condes them by Rome, were eager to
be Marquis in Castile and it had long sought with eagerness.

Meanwhile, complying with the saying of 'Child not have, and we name
it "had pondered a lot and played more the counts on name that was
to have the Marquis.

They agreed the two in which the name was to be the in some rural property they possessed, but,
unfortunately, the husband's farm Rosita was impossible. They called: The Biznaga, The Hinojal
and The Macuca. It was not safe with titles such ugly head. They resolved, therefore, that on
a farm titled Rosie called Camarena, and I dreamed of being Marquis de Camarena, settling soon
as San Teódulo County, Theban and Andalusian martyr at a time, which,
here is understood as understood, involves no contradiction.

Entitled Rosita, and more rich and prosperous than ever, develop in
his soul felt love more pure to the letters and the arts.

He called his rooms to artists and poets, and became a Lorenza as
a Patron of the Magnificent or female.

As for the former cursería, we said that no one dared hardly accuse her of this defect; defect,
moreover, so vague and undefinable, which is almost always the criterion
of People find him or not finding the others.

What does happen, usually, is that allegations are mutual. No subject is given only when he described
someone corny, do more than pay, it is uncertain whether he qualified for qualifying mouth
full of the same.

Is this because it is a quality cursería indeterminate and confusing? I think not, because I noticed
that it does the same with certain other qualities sick.

Whenever I've heard a woman talk about the amorous intrigues of the intricacies and tricks
of the others I've seen that she told the other a thousand times.

And on the lips of anyone with whom I have referred thousand horrors underhand behavior in public
employment, I have also heard diatribes stronger accusing the others
of the same peccadillo.

Pray for natural goodness, but not innate, but acquired with age and experience, now poohing
dull and blunt a weapon to force everyone to use, the Countess of
San Teódulo I had no bad language.

Oddly enough! He did not speak ill of his friends. Just spoke ill of his enemies declared and
bitter.

Then took great pains and took great joke. Occasionally, although the spoken prose was exquisite,
I used to appeal to the verse, and sent to his favorite poet to write doggerel against the
person who wanted her to ridicule.

Time away was the friendship of General Perez, the Countess was not
involved in politics; not lecturing on strategy, and castrametación
Poliorcetes.

Now devoted all their ingenuity the muses. And, since his trip to Rome, where he had been three
weeks, had acquired profound concepts in drawing, painting and visual arts, and had become an archaeologist
more than reasonable.

Such, in brief, was the friend who, unexpectedly, were found in the Gardens Inesita and Beatrice.

Rosita,
eight years ago, had been on the show the people of both, not far from town her, and was hosted
at the home of Mr. Cure, a friend of his father.

But why not it had been forgotten those women who were girls when
they met them, and should have changed enough?

What came to them with such simplicity and goodness? Why is the had, as they are led, in running,
sitting by his side?

Don Braulio all this was as stunned or more stunned than us. The difference is we will know
the cause in the next chapter and will don the dark Braulio and thinking.

IX

All presentations will be made with due ceremonies, according to the
liturgy of society elegant.

Doña Beatriz introduced her husband to the Countess and Countess presented to the Knights
that formed the circle, first and then Beatriz Ines and Don Braulio.

This Luckily, the three were thrown into the great world in a jiffy, in a blink of an eye.

He was not there the Count of San Teódulo there was not more lady
the Countess.

In this, as nearly all ladies of high stem and supreme elegance,
did not like dealing with women but in rare cases.

So much more to thank and to estimate, therefore, the rare exception
I had done and Ines Beatriz.

All seated on the floor again, the favorite poet of the Countess,
who call Arthur gave Inesita conversation without also would stop
talking to her other suitors.

Don Braulio, although shocked and suspicious and start to become famous by his wife, spoke to
more serious and Machucha gentlemen.

Doña Beatriz and the Countess of San Teódulo spoke at length with each other and whispered, remembering
their old friendship.

A few minutes later the Countess of Dona Beatriz had demanded the re-apear treatment the re-tutear
as she remembered that back in the village had familiarly.

Why refuse to so great kindness? The two friends tutearon in effect. And remember the reader
hearty villager was Rosita. Condesa was the same with those who deserved it.

- I can not understand - said Beatriz - how could you know so many
people and then so many years.

- My daughter - answered the Countess
-, I will have limited understanding, but I have lots of memory and,
above all, lots of good will to those whom I cherish.

We have recognized hundred thousand people without history, without being prevented, without
notice to you were you among them.

Also, what merit is there in me? Who sees you when you can not forget.

- Thank you, thank you confuse me with your praise indulgent and generous.

- I speak the truth. And then you have not changed in the face.

Your body is another, you've unwrapped, embarnecido you have something, you made a beautiful woman.
Praxiteles would you have taken as a model. These garments are no doubt others of you today.
When we tried in the place you were a child. I saw fresh and tender then the bud, now I see the
rose, which has made all the luxury its lush aromatic corolla. But I repeat, face, expression,
looking ... nothing this has changed.

When you talk you look like a married woman ... but quietly ... look
a girl, more candid ... more innocent than your sister, who is also
very cute.

- Anyway ... is unique ... no history ... not knowing
I was in Madrid ...

- No, it does not.

I do not like to brag about what I should not. I have recently learned that were in Madrid.
If I had known before I had gone to see your home.

- Who knows me? Who could tell you about me? My husband is a poor employee ...

- Will you say, but his intelligence and diligence are delighted the Minister and full of envy
to all staff of the Secretariat. The Minister did not do more than talk your husband. And what's
with you, but you live so withdrawn, speak and many since, few nights have you seen in these gardens.

-
It is possible, women! Want to make fun of me?

- Tired know you do not mock me.

- Do not laugh because you're good, but you want to tease me. It is true that I came here a few
nights have, but nobody knew me.

- Then I knew and admired you. Someone who is proudly weary of discontented, difficult, was so enchanted
that I followed.

Doña Beatriz blushed again.

- How do you know? - Said.

- The told me.

- Who?

- Do you want to regale the ear?

The Count of Alhedín, elegant flower, the most handsome of our chickens.

-
It would be my sister.

- That I have not said word count.

It has simply say that I followed, and made me the most brilliant
of you praise.

Ensure you have never seen two women more beautiful and aristocratic in nature. Before coming
to me was the Count took reports, and I I do not know how the hell had written that, despite
your precipitate flight in a stingy, I already knew how you called, where you lived, who you
were, who was your husband, and a thousand other things. It is clear that to tell me I realized
that you were the girls that had so I wanted in place, and entered into a desire to see you
again. If I tell you frankly, I've only been here tonight to see
if I was.

I have people at home: a circle of friends. There I ahead, and my husband is with them. Anyway,
thank God that I have found. Well supposed I you had to come because it is Sunday night, when
your husband does not have chores.

The other night was crazy what they did, believing that nobody would notice. Come alone ... two
girls ... exposing the persecution of any uneducated fool! ... Not all are the cream of courtesy.
Not all are like the Count of Alhedín, which can distinguish to escape
who has to deal with.

- You are right - said Beatriz -, was a blunder,
it was unwise to what we did the other night.

Do not do it again.

- From here on out would be impossible. I desentonaríais. Already by this time I know all of Madrid;
that is, society. You must come, or with your husband ... or me.

I bring in my car if Gardens amuse you.

My poet and some other escort us. It is necessary to put on airs. No is a matter of coming
here two girls and two adventurous.

- Much I have to thank - said Beatriz.

- No, my child, do not thank
me anything. I do it for selfishness. Here among us, vanity I'm not
blind, I still and cotorrona. I have no love, or jealousy, or aspire
to nothing, and I need friendship and company of young women like
you. My house is a casino, of which I am president with skirts, but
I'm tired of doing this role. Want to share with me? Will you help
me to chair my gathering?

- I do not know if Braulio willing and
able ...

- How not to love? It seems affable, cheerful, good sir,
and discreet. And recognize that their Women should not always be
stuck at home. When married with a child like you would by all this.
No shock will take him.

- Yes ... it is true ...-- Beatriz said -
but Braulio has compelling reasons. Why I feel ashamed to say to you?
We are poor ... How do you spend on clothes? ...

- And why the costumes?
In my house ... We confidently ... You can go as you ... now, less
luxurious yet ... and until the work can take you there ... You'll
see how you get distracted there at night. Your sister will be distracted
too, because they provided chickens home their age and will know more
when she goes. As for your husband ... is not a requirement indispensable
to accompany you always. That would be ridiculous for several reasons,
because it would suspect he was a zealous suspicious, which would
be in contempt of yours, or because it would presume that was a man
incapable bare, he had no business in what used, but in Finally, even
when your husband was often at my house, I am certain that, far from
weigh is happy. There are quite a few subjects of their position.
Would be released, win friends and talk policy, finance, science,
everything, looking so much to say that you know ... and until the
present, that is in peace and without getting angry, it has not helped.
You confess it ... you are not very lucid.

- We are pleased ... and
do not want more.

- That is a virtue ... but sterile. When no goal
is not reached. It must suck all ... For you see my husband ... And
I'll introduce you ... Not worth the twentieth part of your Don Braulio.
And yet ... how do you know wits! ... It is a gyrfalcon ... I speak
to you from the heart in hand. It is necessary that we remove your
husband of limbo in which they live. It has elements ... Why not to
use them? To a philosopher, contempt of the world and its vain pomp,
would have done better not to marry a bud like you.

- What? I loved
her so much!

- Too bad you did not love you out! Who does not instill
love? You, however, grateful ...

- Not just grateful ... love too
...

- So, have you loved a lot?

- And I love him still.

- His great
talent seduced you: two reasons to use it in making you happy, so
that vague musings stop and see what matters. I do not know what a
writer has compared acute speculative philosopher with a mule that
turns a wheel, attached to it by the devil metaphysics, drawing water
not drinking and not eating the abundant grass and fresh vegetable
that everywhere around you. Well, even worse when the philosopher
or the mule, following the mischievous comparison, has a partner and
rope leads, not left to graze either.

- My duty and my taste is to
follow my husband wherever he goes, so take me to a barren desert
as a land of promise. For that, I do not think that is so deep in
futile dreams, that ignores the reality of life.

- Best case. I'm
glad. Without flattery, I will be very nice your husband. It has good
looks. Is known to be bird counts. The only thing that should be reformed
is the hat and the peaks the collar. Are enormous. Why not make the
cut that a bit?

- It's a whim. Insists on taking them well, but not
stubborn in matters of importance.

- So ... good will. With picks
and all seems well ... very curiosito ... very neat ... Even the huge
enormity of the peaks seems to me as it gives some original character
and severe. But, sir, where do you have hidden the Count?

- What
Count? - Asked Beatrice.

- Your most ardent admirer. Just saw you
came to tell me that you had arrived. Singular is the fear that you
have. It is absurd in a man so fluent and so bold. Nothing ... I'm
ashamed to present to you, he has escaped. Is delaying what you want
most ... Thank God! Is already there