 The greatest talents are always exposed to this danger who strive
to explain a phenomenon, lack of positive data on its nature and origin. An effect may have
come from a myriad of causes, but not found Just knowing the truth that was able to proceed,
you must demonstrate that it has proceeded. If I hypothesis satisfactorily explains a phenomenon
I have in sight, I can admire it wit who invented it, but soon I shall advance to the knowledge
of the reality of things.

This habit of giving effect to a possible cause, saving the distance from the possibility to reality,
is more common than you think, especially when the reasoner can draw on the coexistence or succession
of events that aims to link. Sometimes, even awaiting to know if the fact that there really is
designated cause, enough to have been exist, and that its existence could have the effect
of which is intended to reason.

It has been found at the bottom of a cliff, the body of an acquaintance, the signals of the victim clearly
expressed that died falling down. Three assumptions can excogitating to account for the catastrophe,
a fall, a suicide, a murder. In all these cases, the effect is the same, and in the absence
of data can not be said to explain a more successfully than the other. Many viewers are watching
the disastrous scene; All are eager to discover the cause, cause that is present the slightest
hint, of course you will see born in abundance conjecture, and you will hear the expressions "is
true, so be it can not be otherwise .... as if he were watching ... no witnesses, can not
be proved at trial, but it is certainly not it.

"

And what are the signs? Some hours before finding the body, the unhappy was heading towards the
fatal spot, and there are some who saw I was reading some papers, which stopped from time to
time, and showed signs of restlessness. For the rest is well known that the latter days had
past troubles, and businesses from home were very badly. All neighborhood saw in his face signs
of grief and uneasiness. Case closed, this man has committed suicide. Murder can not be, I was so
close to home .... also that a murder not committed in this way .... A calamity is impossible,
because he knew very well the ground; and on the other hand, was not precipitated nor men who walked
with his eyes distracted.

As the poor man was harassed by his creditors, mail today due to receive a letter pressing
and there will be more able to resist.

- Come on, come on, answer
as many, something clear and has V. reason, is now fully Mail day
....

Comes the judge and the effect of instructing the first steps,
the full portfolio of the deceased.

- Two letters.

- Did not I tell
you ?.... the mail today !....

- The one is N. its correspondent
in the plaza N.

- Come, overall there had his trouble.

- Says: "Sir,
at this point I just got out of the proverbial reunion.

No missing remittent, but ultimately supported the NN friends, I
got everyone entered in reason.

For now you can V. live in peace, and if your son V. I had the good
fortune to restore therefore any American business, these people will
be provided to all, and keep V. his fortune and credit.

The details for the email immediately, but I believed that it should
not differ a moment to tell V. as satisfying news.

Meanwhile, etc., Etc. "There is no reason Why kill yourself.

- The
other ?....

- It is your son ....

- Bad news must bring ....

-
Says: "My dear father, I have come to time, and a few hours of my
landing was broken trap.

It was all a scam N. It has cruelly mocked our confidence.

I did not dream in my coming and seeing me at home, has remained as if struck by lightning. I
have known his agitation, and I seized all correspondence. While I was of this has taken the
base, and ignores its whereabouts. Everything is saved except some embezzlement, I calculate of
little consideration. I run, because the boat is going to be coming to the sailing. " etc. etc.

Today's
mail was not to commit suicide, that of the guesswork out lucid, especially for having become
the possibility into reality, having to lie in assumptions free, having been deluded with sort
of a satisfactory explanation.

- If you could be a murder ?....

-
It is clear, because in this post .... and besides, this man was not
without enemies.

- The other day his settler N. threatened him terribly.

-
It is very bad .....

- Oh! terrible .... life has been accustomed
to shoulder .... come on, has frightened the neighborhood ....

-
And how were they now?

- To kill this morning went out together in
the deceased's house and spoke both very tough.

- And the settlers
used to walk here?

- Always, to two steps has a field, and also the
question was (but this is the among us), the question was about those
oaks from the brink.

The owner complained that he spoiled the forest, the other refused,
as in this same place were the other day to be a clubbing peak.

Look Vds.

... but one must not lose to an unhappy .... almost every day were
in quarrels in the same place.

- Then did not speak V. more ....
is an atrocity! test but how ?....

- And today Vds. seen as not working
in the field, and its implement is there .... and is known who has
worked today ..... We no longer doubt it is evident, the unhappy is
lost, because it will breathe .....

Then one of the people.

- What
a disgrace!

- Do not you know?

- No sir, now I have this at home.

I went to see him, if appeased with poor N. being held in the hall ...

- Prisoner ?....

- Yes folks, I've been crying, his wife says that word has been exceeded, and that the mayor has
been arrested. As you know it's so bully Vds. !....

- What has come over the camp since he spoke this morning with the deceased in the street?

- How then had to leave?

Vds. and you will find there, which is very early; The poor guy was
plowing there !....

New disappointment, the murderer was at long
distance, the prisoner was the settler, new disappointment assumptions
to be wary of free, not to confuse reality with the possibility and
not freak out with plausible appearances.

§ VII.

Concern for doctrine.

Behold one of the most precious sources of error, that is the real
drag of science, one of the biggest obstacles to slow their progress.

Incredible serious influence of prejudice, if the history of the human spirit not testify with
indisputable facts.

The man dominated by a concern not seek or books or things that really there, but what is best to
support their views.

And most significant is that it carries in this way, sometimes with
the utmost good faith, believing without a shadow of doubt that he
is working for the sake of truth.

Education, teachers and authors who have received At first light on science, people with whom we
live continually, or try more often, the state or profession, and other similar circumstances,
contribute to engender in us the habit of looking at things all have
the same appearance, see always in the same way.

Hardly had we took the first steps in the career of a science, we
offered certain axioms as eternal truth, we had certain propositions
as supported by demonstrations irrefutable, and the reasons that were
active on the other hand, never made us consider as evidence to consider,
but as objections to release.

Was there one of our reasons to waver on one side? of course they resorted to sustain, say
that in any case that was not the only, who was accompanied by other
dutifully satisfactory and that but it alone might not suffice, however
added to the other did not stop in spite tipping the balance and more
and more in our favor.

Do the opponents have difficulty of spiny solution?

The number of responses made up for its solidity. The most serious author A answered in this
way, the famous B-so, the wise C-so, either three is enough, choose
the best sound, with complete certainty that the Achilles adversaries
have received the wound in the tendon.

This is not to convince, but to win; self-esteem is interested in
the race, and known are the infinite resources of this evil agent.

Favoring bulges and exaggerates, what prejudice is diminished, defaced Toggle: good faith protest
sometimes from the depths of the soul, but her voice is drowned and
silenced as a word of peace in fierce combat.

If not, how is it possible to explain that for many centuries, schools
have seen as organized, and disciplined armies grouped around a flag?

How that a number of illustrious for his learning and virtues, they
saw all a question of a Similarly, while his opponents no less enlightened
than them, they saw everything opposite way?

How is it to know what were the views of one author, not necesitásemos
read, common enough in what the order to which he belonged, or the
school where he had gone?

Could it be ignorance of the matter, when consumed his life in studying it? Could it be that
not read the works of their opponents? This is verified in many, but others can not be doubt
that consult regularly. Could be bad faith? Certainly not because
they were distinguished by Christian fortitude.

The causes are those listed above, the man before inducing others into error, he deceives many
times to himself. It clings to a system, there is every reason to castellated which might
favor, his mood is going to overheating as it is under attack, until the Finally, whatever the
number and strength of opponents, seems to be saying to himself: "This is your place, it must
defend: is better to die with glory than live in disgrace cowardice. "

For this reason, when trying to convince others, we must carefully separate the Because the truth
of the cause of self: mind on how to persuade the opponent that giving, nothing lost in reputation.
No ataqueis never clearly and insight talent, otherwise the battle will be formalized, the fight
will be close, and even holding him under your feet and the sword in the throat, not to confess
recabaréis up.

There are certain words of courtesy and deference at all to address the truth, in hesitating
the adversary should not save, if you want to give her things gone before have come to nasty ends [14].

CHAPTER
XV.

Reasoning.

§ I.

The worth of principles and rules of dialectics.

When the authors treated in this operation of understanding, to pile up a lot of rules direct, support
in some axioms. Not dispute the truth of these, but I doubt much to the usefulness of those
is much as has been claimed. In effect, it is undeniable things that are identified with a
third identify themselves, that is two identify with each other, if one is other than a third,
so shall also the other, that is affirmed or denied of a whole genus or species, must be affirmed or
denied the individual content in them, and also is also very true that the rules of argumentation
based on these principles are infallible. But I have difficulty in the application, and I can
not convince they are of great use in practice.

First, admit that these rules help to give some precision to the understanding
which may serve in some cases to design more clearly, and attend to
the defects involving a speech well that sometimes this advantage
is offset to the disadvantages carried by the assumption that reasoning
is known, because no rules are ignored reasoning.

Can one really knowing the rules of an art, and not succeeding to implement them. Just recite all
the rules of rhetoric without a word wrong, which I can not write a page without crashing,
I will not say to the precepts of art, but with good sense.

§ II.

The syllogism. Comments on this instrument dialectical.

We will train full concept of the utility of such rules, if we consider that whoever reasoning
do not remember, if you are not compelled to make an argument to the scholastic manner, something
which has now fallen into disuse.

Students learn to know whether this or that syllogism sins against this or that rule, and this
is done in such simple examples, that when you leave school never find anything that seems
to them. "Every virtue is laudable, justice is a virtue, then it
is laudable.

"Very well: but when I offered to discern whether this or which act
has been violated justice and the law has something to punish, if
I intend to investigate what is justice, analyzing the high principles
that underlies, and utilities their empire leads the individual and
to society, what good will that example, or other similar?

Theologians and jurists, I want to tell me if they have served their
speeches greatly unsettled rules.

"Everything is metal ore, gold is metal, then is mineral." "No animal is immune, the Fish are
animals, then they are not insensitive. "" Pedro is guilty, this man is Peter, then this man
is guilty. "" This is not an ounce of gold due weight, this is what Juan ounce has given me
an ounce after that John was not given due weight. "These examples and others by the same token,
are often found in works of logic that provides rules for syllogisms, and I do not reach what
they can bring to the speech of students.

The difficulty in reasoning is not removed with these frivolities but themselves for losing time
in school to teach.

When the discourse moves from the examples to the not really find anything like it, and then either
completely forgets the rules, or after having tested the applied continuously, soon tired of
the mundane and useless task. Sugeto true, well known mine, had taken the trouble to examine all
speeches by the light of dialectical rules I do not know if today still retain this pilgrim
humor, while I saw no occasion to treat it to reach great results.

Consider some of these examples, and compare them with practice.

This means to the membership of an estate.

All goods that were within the N should go to the M, but the long time elapsed and other circumstances
make that prompt a lawsuit over the meek B, that the latter is in possession, based on that
their rights will come to her family N. It is clear that the possessor has the syllogism be the
following: All goods that were within the N I belong, is so the meek B is in this case, then
the meek B belongs to me. To keep things simple, we assume no difficulties in the first proposition,
I mean as much, and that the entire dispute falls on the least that is incumbent upon the
meek prove that it belonged B to the family N.

All the lawsuit turns, not on whether the syllogism is inconclusive, but if the slightest evidence
or no. And I ask now: think no one in the syllogism? Useless "to remember that what is said everyone
has to say about each?

When it has come to prove that the meek B N belonged to the family, will need no rule to deduce
that the family M is legitimate holder? The speech is made, it is true, there is a syllogism,
no doubt, but it is something so clear, so obvious is the deduction that the rules given to remove,
rather than other thing seem a purely speculative entertainment. Will not work in the syllogism
but to find the titles to prove that the meek B really belonged to the family N, which is appropriate
to interpret the terms of the testament, donation, or sales at it
had acquired, in this and other points consist of the difficulty,
for this would be necessary sharpen the speech, thoughtful prescribing
rules to discern the truth among many and complicated and contradictory
documents.

Would be funny to others, he asked the concerned to the lawyers and the judge, how many times
have you thought of such rules, when followed with watchful eye of the thread which should
lead to the desired object, respectively.

"The currency does not meet the qualifications prescribed by law should not be received, this
ounce of gold does not, then should not be received. "The reasoning is as conclusive as useless.
When I is well educated on the circumstances required by the current
monetary law, and also have experienced that this ounce of gold has
none, it will return to the giver without speeches; and if you work
dispute, is not about the legitimacy of the result, but whether to
many or few grains of deficit has yet to take, if very heavy or not,
if carried this or that sign, and the like.

When the man runs not walks in on his thought reflexes and eye when they look do contortions
to see themselves. We present an idea, it is conceived with more or less clearly, it is contained
other or others, with these memories arises other, and so is walking smoothly, without hesitation
reflex, not to get pregnant each step with the reason for what you think.

§ III.

The enthymeme.

The evidence of these truths has made that were among the forms of argument enthymeme, which
is nothing more than a syllogism that is quiet and inferred, any of its propositions. This
form showed it to the dialectical experience of what they were seeing at every step, they might notice
that in practice was omitted as superfluous by the present extensive whole thread of reason.
So in the last example, the syllogism at length would which has been at first, but in the
form of enthymeme would become the following: "This Oz does not have the conditions prescribed
by law, then I should not receive it, "or in style vulgar, and more pithy: "Do not take it,
is short."

§ IV.

Reflections on the term.

All the artifice of the syllogism is to compare the ends with an average for deduce the relationship
we have with each other. When you know already, and must present these ends and that on average,
nothing easier to do the comparison, but by then fully rule is unnecessary, because the intellect
is at once the intended consequence. How is this average? How do you know the two extremes, when
doing research on an object, which is not known what it is? I know that if I have in mineral
was gold hands, would have such quality, but pregnancy is neither occurs to me that this may
be gold, and therefore do not think one of the two extremes, nor
even thought it, I find ways to check.

The judge knows full well that if the man walks by whom was the murderer pursues a long time,
should send the punishment, but the difficulty is that to see the guilty do not think the murderer,
and if I thought and suspect that it is the individual who is present, can not be ordered due to
lack of tests. Has two ends, but not the average, a term certainly not offer it under dialectical
forms. What do you call this man?

His country, his ordinary residence, the history of their behavior,
their way of life today, where it was when the murder, witnesses saw
him near the spot where it was found the victim, her dress, stature,
countenance, bloody signs have been noted in his clothes, dagger hidden,
the trepidation with which arrives late at his house a few moments
later the disaster, some items have been found in his possession,
and closely resemble other I had the deceased, his contradictions,
his feud with the assassinated recognized behold the average, or rather
a set of circumstances that indicate whether the inmate is the real
murderer.

And why take advantage of the rules of syllogism?

Now we have to attend to one word, then to a fact here be considered a signal is beyond must
compare two or more matches. Will need to attend to the physical, moral social and individual,
it is necessary to appreciate the value of witnesses, in a word the judge must turn the attention
in all directions, set it on thousands and thousands of different objects and weigh it all in
a fair and careful balance to not leave the guilty unpunished, or not to condemn the innocent.