 

They had already struck midnight, when the body of Tennessee was placed in the hands of their partner.
When approached the car to the fatal tree, we note that contained a rough oblong box, made
the Apparently sluice tables [7] half-filled pine bark and twigs. Were part the decoration
of the cart willow cuttings and a few dozen long flowers odor. A body once placed in the box,
Tennessee's partner covered it with a cloth tarred, mounted seriously on the narrow front
box, and your feet on the beam, whipped up the ass, slowly moving vehicle, with that dignified
step which, even in circumstances less formal, it is customary to as intelligent quadrupeds.

Middle of curiosity, half in jest, but all in good humor, both of miners continued sides of the truck,
a front, others behind the simple coffin, but is due to the narrowness of way or by some instinctive
momentary feeling of pity, as he advanced the car, support was delayed in pairs, keeping the
pace and taking the appearance of a solemn procession. The fun Polibión James, who had started
out parody a funeral march, moving his fingers on an imaginary flute, declined to pursue it, not
find a favorable reception, perhaps lacking the ability of real humor, you can have fun with your
own grace and humor.

The road crossed the creek funeral Bear, covered at this time of dark and gloomy aspect. The Campeches,
hiding in the reddish soil his feet, manned the path as in single file, and its branches seemed
inclined to take a strange blessing over the coffin progressed slowly.

A beautiful hare, caught in their innate activity, sat on his hind legs, rebullendo the ferns
beside the road, while the procession marched. Squirrels were quick to gain the upper branches to
peek from there in safety, and jays, stretching its wings, flew to the front as outriders, until we
reach suburbs of Sandy-Bar and the solitary cabin of the director of the ceremony.

Seen this place even more pleasant circumstances, there would have been a cheerful place. The
rough and ugly figure and the gross details that distinguish mining constructions California,
and moreover, a little picturesque location, all gathered there to sadness debris. A few meters
from the hut, lay a rough fence, in the short days of marital bliss Tennessee's partner, had
served as a garden, but in Back then, enjoyed a lush ferns and herbs of all kinds. As we approach
the fence, we were surprised to see that what we had taken for A recent assay, was only clearing
surrounding a newly opened tomb. The wagon and stood in front of the enclosure, and Tennessee's
partner refusing offers of help, with the same air of confidence he had shown in all, took the box
and deposited, without help from anyone in the shallow grave. With nails sticking after serving
table cover, and getting on the mound that stood beside the grave, He uncovered and slowly wiped
his face with his handkerchief. Everyone understood that these were the preliminary of speech,
and spread on tree trunks and rocks waiting situation.