 Chisco had not returned, nor had a living soul passed that would give notice of him or
of the others. And to all that, I was missing my uncle and Facia and Toña and I appeared black
to hide the truth of what would happen, and the snow was thickening, and the mist of the night was progressing...
Eternal God, what infatuation of mine! When the gates of the house would close and Chisco would not be
inside it, and that unhappy man would know, and we had to show him
the truth... It would be as if I were to stab him!

And the night was over, finally, to wrap the house and the valley and the mountains in the
most dense and impenetrable obscurity; the gates had been closed. The fire in the kitchen was
brought alive, my uncle was brought to the fire in his usual seat, but he was alarmed and uneasy, because
he would see us all alarmed and uneasy wondering like shadows more than being like people around
him... and nothing, not even a voice outside, not a bang, nor a whistle!The silence, the solitude,
the cold of the graves, death everywhere! I had never before found God's majesty so great, nor
had I ever prayed with more fervor than then, while I wandered from door to door watching and
hearing, without seeing or listening more than the impenetrable darkness of the night, the lingering
roar of the Nansa, that more than noise was like a breath of silence
and the unrewarded heart beats of my heart.

That's how one hour passed that had seemed like a century. I was heading then to prepare my uncle
(who at times languished without daring to ask us a word) for the terrible news with a speech
that had been badly sown, when God had wanted us to hear to loud bangs on the gates that faced
the street. That was, at the least a lull and frighting agony that we all suffered within those blackened
walls. But if that who called was not Chisco, or who would bring us news of him and of the other
absentees, were we not to kill him, whoever it may be?

I, myself, too the lantern that had been lit long before for a luxury of precautions taken at the
lack of something better and more calm to occupy my time. And I went down the stairs three steps
at a time; I arrived at the gates at the same time that the bans would repeat themselves,
and with a limp and accelerated hand I freed the lock that would secure the gate from inside, I unlocked
and opened. Two bulks awaited outside. I lifted the lantern to recognize them before letting them in,
and I knew, God almighty, Neluco and Chisco! Canelo was there as well, curled up. They came in,
I took a hold of them and embraced them almost crying with happiness. But in what condition they were!
Chisco, sickly, discouraged, and with the head bandaged and an arm on a sling. Neluco was dismissing and
pale; and both were covered in water from head to toes, stiff and
purple from the cold... The uneasiness and the exalts invaded me once
again and I asked them with a horrible fright to what the answers
would be: "And Don Sabas?"

"Well," Neluco answered me with a foggy voice.

"And Pito Salces?" "Him as well."

"And Pepazos?" -For Christ's sake!, the doctor interrupted pushing
me to the deep of the place-
