 In the smaller places are often be so rich
or so regular and architectural, but the flowers and plants are kept more love, with real care.
The lady, in the spring and the summer evenings, usually sewing or gathering in the courtyard, whose
walls are covered with a carpet of vegetables. Ivy, passion flower, jasmine, lemon, honeysuckle,
rose vine and other climbing plants, weave the tapestry with interlocking sheets and embroidered
it with flowers and fruits. Perhaps it is covered with a leafy bower much of the patio: and
at its center, so that looks good for the gate, if there is such, stands a flowerbed, consisting
of many containers, placed on wooden benches or escaloncillos. There carnations, roses, Miramelindo
Marimon, basil, boxwood, euonymus, sharp, and much laureola dompedro fragrant. Missing or flowerbeds
all around, where the flowers are also abundant, and for more delicacy and under the flowers are
gorgeous gorges, where they form a thousand reeds drawings and mazes, ending in triangles
and other mathematical figures. The upper points of the rods, which are interwoven with those
fences or gates, usually take two separate ornament eggshells or cute and glazed zucchini. Bees and
wasps buzz and encourage the playground during the day. The Nightingale gives music at night.

In
the winter, Córdoba takes good care of evergreens beautify your room. Canaries or finches remember
the spring with their songs, and if the householder is a hunter,
partridges and quails are not lacking songbirds in their cages, and
guns and trophies Hunting adorn the walls.

Around the home, almost in conversation with the masters, are to be placed the hounds and the
hounds.

Still in the aristocratic houses of the places there is usually a clown or funny like that remember,
though for the rustic, the lackey of our old comedies.

This funny has billion skills and game thrushes whistle and perch, and goldfinches to link or
network, and eel fishing getting into the ponds and streams, and catching them by hand. Some of
these usually his little poet, gives the days to the lady in tenths, and composed songs in praise
and satire against rivals or opponents of their masters. Also accompanies and entertains children
and know a multitude of stories that relates to animation and lots of mime.

The maid of place no longer know too many stories, and with grace.
