 The glory is almost always late for this race of men. Few similar a loss to understand
his worth. So will his fame spreads and to accrue by authority, contested and often contradicted,
and so slowly and deliberately, the sage and The poet often die without the benefit of that
respect and even worship taxed later to his memory.

The same wise, and especially the poet, critic excellent as it is, may console themselves with
awareness and security of your worth, other men unknown or denied. Do not know fixed point
if the trial that are about themselves is distorted by self-love.

A work of genius is very difficult to judge, and the good reputation that must be acquired a few
subjects understood that manage to impose their opinion, sometimes after many years when not
centuries. The other men undergo this review out of laziness, or because having already dead
author of the work, they care little to be celebrated and praised. The idea that the reputation
of that author is in honor of the nation or humanity as a whole contributes to that contained
by certain selfishness, are few men to throw to destroy it. Moreover, the glory of the great
writers often posthumously and extremely vain. Of every thousand people mentioning, for example,
Homer as the first epic poet, ten at best, in civilized countries, I have read, and of these
ten, nine were bored or asleep reading to him: one was useful perhaps
of those beauties and excellences.

Poetry, then, in its highest sense and virtue in its highest sense, has only reward in itself,
in creating the ideal, the determination and debugging of beauty, which is low, mixed with foreign
elements and fleeting in the world and whom the poet away and subtracted
from the ugly, and gives immortal life, in order to enjoy her the
few souls who by his own beauty are able to understand.

Understood, however, that unless the sublime arch-mentioned exceptions, nothing is more false in
a sense that this honor and profit that do not fit in a bag. By contrast, when the public does
not honor it if not rich, and always enriched when honor. The more or less of enrichment depends
on the circumstances that have nothing to do with honor. In countries rich and prosperous, good
poet, the condition of his genius, is popular and famous, is also rich. And beyond the respect
due to him, Adam Smith was wrong to assume the comedians, singers and dancers, they earned a lot
of money in compensation of decorum they lost in their office, which, if more honest, more people
would be exercised by business, and this competition would lower the price. The above artists
are much better regarded in the day time of Adam Smith, not so many good, or sell cheap services.
They sell expensive, because there are few that are suitable for them, and because way to pay is
given to the shortage persists, load sharing among many people.

It follows from the above and still be clearer if I extend the size as requested the case that
the very nature of things, and without any one complaining about it, or do you blame a chapter
of our century, or the past, and now men, or of that time, the most universally respected,
loved and revered is money, and therefore, the one he owns. Even the same heavenly souls, pure
love of love, glory and all the good and holy love of money also
go as a means excellent success with other crushes those ethereal.

The average man loves money more than life. Any person, almost sympathetic that is, secure account
with a few friends who venture for her life, which would sacrifice his life. Many take the field
in a duel to the death to defend Tell a friend! Almost nobody, however,
would sacrifice his wealth by a friend, or the twenty or hundredth
of its volume