 What would inexperienced
school, just out of school, become head of household? Responded to their diligence, of his devotion,
but not trusted in their abilities. He was encouraged to know that all Villaverde knew him,
that there for some time now, all his considerations of the most deserved villaverdinos conspicuous.
He was encouraged by this, but while it looked somewhat painful Value humiliation! God helps those
who help.

XI

Left me sad and dejected Andrew conversation. The generosity of that servant, faithful in all times
to their owners, filled me with admiration. Andrew had no family, never knew his parents; he was
orphaned at an early age and spent her childhood in the countryside, playing rudísimas work, serving
people who treated him badly.

I used to remember the bitterness of that time, and had thoroughly their work and their sentences,
but never heard him complain of the harshness their first masters,
and never let slip a word against them.

My father took the ranch where he lived, he took his service, and
soon the boy was worthy of love from all of us.

He would not marry.

- Why? - Answered .-- What? I do not need the family.

You are my family, You are everything to me!

When the family came to less, and my aunt could no longer repay their services, Andrew be more useful
to us that wishes to thrive, we left and went to settle in a town nearby. With their savings
depleted and having very secretly provide for the needs family, started
a shop, where, through hard work and savings made a piquillo that
- as I said, - was enough to live and the ladies auxiliary.

My Aunt Carmen fell sick, and Andres said :--«¡ A Villaverde! I live not far from the family.
Now more than ever they need me. What good is going to see them from
time to time?

"

Transferred, cheapening the "little shop", rolled the mat, and came to Villaverde. In Pluviosilla
had been better and would have thrived easily, but as his object
was to live close to my aunts hesitate to move to the Buddhist city.

While he lived in Santa Rosa came every week, without fail ever, and rain poured down. Between
eight and nine in the morning, there was Andrew in his horse, heavily
laden with fruit, seeds, and poultry.

Upon leaving, Sunday evening or very early Monday, leaving no to put in the dining room four or
five dollars, perhaps much of their profits.

From time to time at school I received a gift from Him: great fruit, mangos Cordovan AMATEC pineapples,
oranges and limes. Sometimes money spent after harvest snuff and coffee. Upon receipt of the
ten or twelve dollars :--«¡ Andrés told me money is!

"And I'm glad I for him and my aunts.

Once I got a box of cigars. I gave it Ricardo Tejeda.

Within the letter of Aunt Pepa came a strip of paper on which he wrote Andrew, that your letter
clumsy and awkward: "So that'll suck. Already a big boy, and you'll like the good cigars.
Said I love a good cigar conceals the arranquera swinging.

"

So I did not like snuff. Ricardo smoked all the cigars.

On Sunday I had made a dandy:

- Rodolfo: give me one of those of our land!

The tobacco realized, he did not need to hide the arranquera.

The faithful servant, established in Villaverde, back in the neighborhood of San Antonio, in
a store it was called "legality", was, as always, an order for aunts. Course decided that they
will attend, and therefore paid more than fair.

- That nothing is missing; - repeat - we will see how far reaching the pita!

None of this I said, I learned later from the lips of Aunt Pepa. The good old merely offer so
perhaps it was not possible to do - spend everything he had.

Neither Andrew nor his health "piquillo" resist spending four years and four years, when least
would be necessary for me to have a title and I might try to mate the Dr. Sarmiento or Mr. Castro
Perez.

I had to settle for what the fate in store for me. I resigned myself to leave the books and give
to the joys of student life, to search Villaverde which may not be missing: a destinejo each
month to give me some hard.

I relied on the kindness of my countrymen, in the benevolence of our friends, for whom was no
mystery the precarious situation of my aunts. I flattered myself that the idea were to cease
in that house embarrassments.

Perhaps in the future, we would enjoy life so much easier; and, indeed, I was flattered to be
the boss of the house. With more money the patient would be better served, we would see relief,
and perhaps regain health.

No one contacted my projects.

I tried, not without difficulty, to see me happy and contented. I was embarrassed and sad. I think
I miss that house, and I felt degraded upon receipt of the elderly
poor as I needed, no, because filial affection I saw them, and motherly
love you always treat me away from my mind the whole idea mean and
humiliating every thought.

For several days I was miserable. For the night, good short hour, I shut myself up in my room,
metíame in bed, and I started to read. I read pages and pages, without considering the concepts.
In a very old cabinet I found myself several Books: A History of Napoleon, do not remember what
classic warfare, and oh joy! two or three volumes of Walter Scott.

I took one, "The Bride of Lammermoor." In a few nights you gave purpose. After finishing the
last page I noticed that this reading had been useless. My head it
was not for novels.

Early, before they woke up my aunts, I went out to the patio. There I washed myself in a great basin
that from the day before put to me on the edge of the source, among
the pots flowering, under the canopy of an umbrella-shaped bell whose
satin floripondio swung quickens the breath of morning winds, while
branches in cages and the birds sang the incomparable autumn dawn.

Frolicked in the water spout and overflow into the pylon fell. On the surface of liquid crystalline
rowed fallen petals and flowers at night. It I fancied skiff, rowed
gondolillas wonderful that invisible beings.

I returned to my room. Soon Angelina was beginning his morning chore. Soon echoed in the corridor
the sound of her broom.

In her lips whispered cheerful ditty like a soft echo, barely perceptible,
to which the winged musicians sang in his prison of reeds and the
glass of orange trees and adorned with yellow apples.

Upon leaving I stopped to talk to the maid. Tratábala me as a favorite sister, and sought to inspire
confidence, but she was always reserved and scary. No But I soon realize that breeze that hit
me so prudish in Angelina the first day, was just shy of kindness,
too, in harmony with nature and beauty, very natural in one who had
had so much to mourn.

The talk, which began with a flattering phrase in praise of his diligence,
he would soon entangled little, without knowing how, and more than
once Pepilla aunt came to interrupt our conversation.

Those sweet moments!

Angelina, standing near the railing, wrapped in a shawl, fallen arms with pleasant indolence in
his hands the broom lazy. I straddled a chair, or set foot on the crossbar. It, listen baby, I, bathed
in light of her wide eyes.

At the time, if we announced a noise coming Aunt Pepa, without reason, without knowing why, we said
goodbye in a hurry, and I went out due to more distant neighborhoods.

I returned to breakfast. And the house was ready, scanning the broker, arranged the living room,
prepared the table. The girl used to sit next to me. I attended and I served as a loving sister
preferred the little boy, ready to satisfy all my desires and whims,
read his thoughts.

My aunt seemed to revel in the sweet and simple fellowship. Anyone who saw us together the three,
would have believed that we were two brothers, and that the old woman was our mother.

Breakfast often lasted an hour. Aunt Pepa talking to your taste. Me and Angelina did not felt
time pass.

The old lady got up to go about their business, and passing behind of us stopped and caressed
us, to me, shaking my head between her hands to her patting him on each cheek.

A campanillazo used to terminate the conversation. Aunt Carmen was called.

- Where is my Angelina? What does my Angelina does not come?

XII

Then would I greet the sick. The poor thing went very bad nights. He suffered from insomnia, seizure
attacks and was forced to leave the bed for a few hours and walk through the room, leaning
on the arm of Angelina.

- It gives me a Sister of Charity! - I said .-- Me Aunt Carmen has no poor thing restful sleep.

And Angelina:

- Poor you! You are very good, very good! What obligation to ensure
you have my dream?

It gives me penalty call, yes, I'm sorry!

If I do it because I do not want to wake Pepa. The unfortunate falls
exhausted, and is no longer for that!

While I was talking to the patient, the distant runner met the disciples: twenty or thirty little
children of the principal families of Villaverde, a mischievous cherub choir and pampered.

Soon
echoed in the courtyard of the study gay rumor. The good lady was a lesson to each child, and
then put to work in a long narrow table.

My aunt's hands, clever by far, went all the bouquets that adorned
the churches Villaverde.

Flowers of all kinds, and colors. Some, fantastic, silver and gold paper; others, the most
beautiful and well arranged so characteristic that, at some distance, no one would distinguish of
natural. There, twisting wires, threading buds, petals Acoca, painting leaflets, my aunt spent
the whole morning and all afternoon. Just dropping his efforts to address children and take
their lesson.

The young man came to the aid of the elderly. The maid was painted
for those tasks.

Of received flowers and bouquets hand finishing touch.

What garlands and festoons what those were! Gallardos, loose, flexible, such as guides and cabrifollos
convolvulus that shaded the source.

Roses ... Ah! Roses! Beautiful and splendid out of the hands of the elderly, but Angelina embellished
to the touch. A drive shaft, a rebellious leaf, a petal without grace, received all of the
young singular beauty. It seemed that passed through the clusters a breath of spring flowers
giving life and freshness.

The children, attracted by such beauty, left their seats and went step by step placing around the
florist. With hands behind, hiding the book, long I stood there gawking and staring in front of
so many wonders.

At twelve concluded the task. The servants came by children, and it was time for the lesson. My
aunt showed severe frown, scolded, threatened. The boys preferred Angelina will take the lesson.
She, patient and kind, the children were getting attentive, and with a look or a touch put order
in the mob of imps blond silk dresses with skirts.

Angelina was a very smart girl. He wrote with great delicacy. Linda his letter; Loose, italic,
elegant, without the grace of the strokes made him lose that softness female character is expressed
not only in style, but transcends the form of letters, provided that
she does not presume to know or like to draw attention.

Hardly you missed a misspelling.

He wrote as he spoke, with great naturalness and simplicity, without digging or dapper phrases,
following the logical order of ideas, removed from the calculated involvement, which makes the
epistolary style unbearable and ridiculous thing. But why not fell in the extreme, ritual formulas
and the concepts of stamp. It was very given to books, but only read when it allowed her chores.
I read every night the "Christian Year", and knew by heart the lives of the saints.

One night I had to read the life of Santa Teresa.

- Jesus! - I said .-- If you already know it by heart. I can repeat the pe to pa!
And Aunt Carmen doubted, Angelina spoke with very good agreement
and very gracefully, life mysticism.

Rare thing in a young, loved
to serious books and perished by the historical. There read three
or four times the "History" of Alamo, and I used to dare against the
judgments of famous writer, not without great displeasure of Aunt
Pepa, for whom were those of Don Lucas a gospel.

Parental history
ran very donosura, smiling, without fatuities or displays of knowledge.
It would be worthwhile to record here the trial of Angelina on some
books. For her there had better novelist Fernán Caballero, or worse
Escrich novelist Perez.

- Open a book of these, the 'Adulterous Woman',
the 'wife Martha, "and being sleepy is all one! "Novels? Fernan Caballero.
His characters seem Vivitar, flesh and blood. That yes it's true!
Eat, sleep .... If I find people who deal every day! I do not understand
these things .... Fernán but I like books because life painting as
it is. Have you read "The Seagull?" "" Eli? "" Tears "?"

- And Cervantes,
what about you, Angelina?

- That is separate! '"Don Quixote?" It's
something that seems novel and perhaps it is not ....

- Well then
....

- I fail to explain. If it is a novel, but there is something
in that book that puts you over of all novels.

I spent long hours
talking to Angelina. Despite the state of my mood and depression of
my mind, when weaving with her live network talk, I recovered my good
mood another time, and I became happy and jolly, and I forgot that
these enervating melancholy have been and perhaps still are, somber
note of my character for this character my dreamer and languid, given
to laziness and daydreaming, vague delirium and meditation without
an object. Pernicious melancholy, perhaps born in my soul when I lived
away from my family, condemned to solitude a school whose dilapidated
cloisters darkened my spirit melancholy that draws me to the fields
and dense forests for long hours entranced by the spectacle glare
on the shores of Lake dormant, hiding among the reeds, or engulfed
in contemplation of an unknown flower, modest and rustic beauty. Feeling
sad of nature that the world hated me loud and frivolous and the attractions
of a society vain; deep sense of the beauties of the physical world,
feelings that develop in my Romantic poets and novelists. Fortunately
I redeemed a little of the concerns and false ideas of romanticism,
and though not entirely free of them because I still have in La Martine
yeast soul, I look at life differently, do not pretend that everything
is to my taste and as my desire, and live quietly as any good person
live without torment me poetic aspirations, nor would I wander useless
delusions or embitter me delicate sentimentality. 

XIII

At ten o'clock
I took my hat and went for a walk around the city. At first I preferred
the suburbs, dark alleys, the picturesque banks of the Stony or squares
of the Alameda, a vast box of ashes strewn at the foot of the hill
of brushes; mall without flowers and without trees cornered, they
retreat so I was gentle and pleasing. In the shade of an orange, the
only grown and lush, noisy and at the top nesting birds, I spent the
morning. There, in a mossy seat and chipped, I gave myself to reading
of my favorite authors, there I read the 'Atala' and 'Renato', the
'Raphael' and 'Grace', there I devoured the "Count of Monte Cristo"
and I went through, to my sorrow, some novels of George Sand, grieved
my heart and my soul left in sediments of aloes. I tasted there's
poetry Zorrilla. Zorrilla