 For
that part already saw some groups of people. Before reaching the gate in a corner of the road
obscured by the shade of some trees, feet stumbled Clementina with an object that almost makes it
fall. He gave a cry, fancied that the obstacle was of a human body. Raymond got a match, and
in fact, acknowledged that he was a boy ten to twelve years who was there shot. Put him in the
foot. The boy opened his eyes and I looked with horror. Then, as sudden inspiration, took over
the baton to Alcazar had in his hand and began to move rhythmically to and fro as if it performs
a difficult task. Clementina and her lover looked on with wonder not to be realize what that
meant. Some workers came over. One burst out laughing exclaiming:

- If one of the guys at the pump!

Dale, dale, child, who is hard!

The others burst out laughing and began brutally encourage poor sleepwalker.

- Hard, hard! ... Go with it! ... Stronger, baby, that does not raise the water!

The unfortunate child, with the voices, redoubled their efforts moving ever imagined faster. It
was a sickly child, his face pale: the dream was reinserted. Her black hair disheveled, spiky,
gave appearance appeared. The wild joy of the workers at that pitiful picture printing was painful
Rayford.

Took the child her arms, shook him a little until he could wake him,
kissed him on the forehead with affection, and taking a hard pocket
handed and left later with Clementina.

Stopped the clamor of the workers. A twang of envy said:

- Come on, now little work has cost you earn your wages!

At one of the evening the guests of Salabert retired to rest. Was on the agenda that at nine o'clock
they all gathered in the room to go from there to visit work and mine. Was fulfilled, not strictly,
because in Spain it can not happen, but with an hour apart. At ten o'clock the procession left
quite depleted course drive to Riosa. They dismounted at the entrance to the village and went through
the middle, producing and is therefore not a little confusion there. The women came to the doors
and windows forward looking and curiosity that brilliant procession
of ladies and gentlemen dressed costumes they had not seen in your
life.

Like their husbands, sons and brothers, color of those women was
pale, sickly, his face often their languid eyes, hands and their small
feet.

As they passed some men were attacked by a strong quake.

- What
is that?

Why these men tremble so? - Asked Esperancita scared.

- Son slumber
- an employee replied.

- What are drowsy?

- Those who get sick from
working in the mine.

- How many sick?

Everyone - the doctor said he had heard the question -. The mercurial tremor few attacks down the
mine.

- Why down? - Candidly asked the girl.

- For the hobby - the doctor said smiling -.

I think it is worth much more to breathe the fresh air, that not down there.

- Sure! I would be anything but mine.

Finally resulted in a square or plaza in the center of which worked
some workers raising an artistic marble pedestal.

- The pedestal
for the statue of the Duke - said the director of mines aloud.

- Ah!

What will be placed around the statue, Duke? "- Cried a few around
the hero.

This shrugged with a gesture of contempt.

- Do not know.

It is a charade that has happened to the casino of the miners.
- Oh, no, Mr. Duke! - Said the director, who really was for the initiative,
Custom Llera although influenced in turn by the Duke -. Oh, no! The
people of Riosa wants to give a mark of respect and gratitude to his
staunch protector, which in circumstances criticism has not hesitated
to expose a huge capital buying this discredited establishment and
saving it from ruin.

- How beautiful it is to do well! - Lola Madariaga
said in an agitated voice, posing Salabert extremely sweet eyes with
admiration