 Touched him Don Pedro the Cruel construction
the second floor, which completed the building. A vast courtyard, surrounded by ancient walls,
giving access the Alcazar, whose exquisite facade, a simple construction but reliefs or curd
arabesques, announces the beauties splendor indoors.

The whole building is reduced to two series of large rooms or apartments, generally square and
superimposed on two floors. The bottom of the walls and the pavements are made up of cute thin brick
tiles or earthenware, vivid colors, with the most graceful figures or drawings. The top of
each wall, from middle to high coffered ceilings, plaster stucco or wood, plays in general,
with incredible profusion, the same ornaments flowers or arabesques that make the charm of the
Alhambra, always repeating forms those exquisite filigree cast, but without losing that grace
of contours, surprising finesse lines everywhere, and vivid color in dazzling combinations. As Don Pedro
the Cruel Arab artists employed at the completion of building works of art are completely homogeneous.
Coffered ceilings or roofs, mainly cedar are implementing a delicate taste.

The Alcazar, full of light by the nature of its construction, it has in its halls and rooms that air
of delight and dark mystery that dominates the Alhambra. In all Alcázar is cheerful and bright,
and from the windows and overhanging balconies of the interior parts it has all the charming spectacle
offered by the huge garden surrounding the eastern palace. What dramatic traditions that place
where races and dynasties reigned enemy! If the hall of the Ambassadors away by its magnificence and
its magnificent dome, evokes many stories and legends with fresco portraits of kings Goths who
hold on the roof. Already feels overwhelmed with horror to cross the room where he was killed
Fadrique by order of his brother Don Pedro, already destiene to ponder, visiting the bedroom where
the king slept cruel, blood on the dramas of jealousy and distrust terrible were the result of
dark musings of the man in her care, and in Finally, when descending to the courtyard of the
Dolls (which had its large berries bathrooms) and penetraren where once underground voluptuous
princesses bathe eastern and more late Doña María de Padilla, one shudders thinking about the dual
use of those underground created for the delight and turned into the tomb. There, in one of
the wet cells without any air or light, was his imprisonment and martyrdom that woman so famous
memory.

The garden, which is about three hectar of the total area is enclosed by a high wall which itself
is a monument. Yet he is full of arabesques, of precious columns, frescoes, inscriptions and
a thousand ornaments so beautiful. What I admire is that these beauties art, exposed to the
weather after so many centuries (for such is the construction of walls) are perfectly preserved
and remain as models of Arabic art. It would be impossible fully describe this wonderful garden
(so especially in Europe) without filling many pages poetic language which seems exaggerated. Apart
from the interest of the interior facade the Alcazar and the high walls that frame the room,
the very bottom of the garden is lovely by a whole as well as for its beautiful details. While
walking through its maze of myrtle symmetrically cut, its thick groves of oranges and pomegranates,
their vast agglomerations shrubs and flowering plants, as bright as art in some places, so graciously
unequal in others, and to penetrate all sanctuaries of vegetables that fill the precinct, will
create one as transported to the Eastern Edens.

Everything there is voluptuous, smiling, tempting. And have fun in trying to find an early exit the
maze of myrtle, or in deciphering the allegories of all shapes drawn on the ground through the
same myrtle bushes neatly arranged, and it has to admire the groups of flowers, water games
ingenious and surprising, the numerous sources Arabic forms and the marble steps where the
Andalusian sun shines with all its splendor. Pray you do get to wander, dreaming and remembering
a thousand stories, under the thick shade of the woods of oranges, lemons and pomegranates, where you
feel the delicious produce intoxication orange blossom and jasmine, basil and roses in profusion.
Ora in short, the noise of the sources and the singing of the birds inhabitants of the garden
is resting with delight, sitting on ottomans marble, under the leadership of beautiful pavilions
of different styles, built in the center vegetable those toilets that seem to evoke the shadows
of the sultanas and traditions of the Moorish civilization. The Alcazar is a delightful monument.
Your type is the smiling freshness. They lack the grandeur that characterized the Alhambra. So, after
leaving the old mansion Don Pedro the Cruel, feels heavy and unpleasant air of the street and
takes a sweet printing, but not experienced the sadness that accompanies the traveler to stay away
from sites and impressive monuments of the old fortress of Boabdil.

       * * * * *

La Lonja, next to the cathedral, is a beautiful and elegant monument that honors to its architect,
the famous Herrera. It is completely square, measuring 37 meters per side and style is the Renaissance,
but in a delicious simplicity of anything detrimental to his majesty. The marble is here lavished
with great wealth, and the light comes in torrents everywhere. The Commercial Court and the Bourse are
resident in that splendid palace of speculation. He had his seat, as I said, the famous House
of hiring, an institution established by Spain in their times of political blindness to exploit
the trade of their colonies Colombia, by the monopoly. The huge files are kept in beautiful
cabinets with the greatest care, in terms of trade and economic history of Spanish-Colombia
for a long time, there is scattered over millions of documents.

The building is two stories, cloistered in both, but not protruding balconies or galleries. All
your floors are marble and all the walls and ceilings of pure stone. The most notable by merit
of composition is on the stairs and ceilings. The first is by itself a splendid monument, its
ways, the enormity of the marble (all of Grenada) as its fine rich as its colors and exquisite
volume and form mosaics. The roof is made on all four sides of a chain of vaults, with the peculiarity
that there is the more than forty coffered (of pure stone, solid and bold and extremely assembled
and beautifully carved) two are alike in their ways or partial relief. The fish market is in
its kind, perhaps the most beautiful monument that Spain possesses.

       

* * * * *

If the art of building such wonderful gathers samples of all kinds in Seville, the divine art
that creates and perpetuates the light of truth on the table, the canvas and the wall, no less
perhaps be proud of in the homeland of Murillo and Herrera. The Museum's paintings Sevilla in itself
an immense treasure, even in the eyes of one who has known the Madrid, Paris, Dresden, Antwerp and
other European cities. However, not all the museum deserves the reputation.

Except six boxes of the first order in the great hall (local dark and sad of an old church) can
say that the core value is in the hall of Murillo, whose price is incalculable.

The main salon has good works, no doubt, but the mass is not outstanding, because Sevilla (who
gave his name to a great and glorious school) has been sacked on on paintings, and French under
Marshal Soult, the wartime national Now for the authorities who wanted to organize national museums
and individuals at the expense provinces. It feels stunned with admiration at the sublime view
of the Assumption of Murillo, so deeply celestial in its form and expression, of the famous painting
by Zurbaran (Which has its political and diplomatic history) representing the preaching of St.
Thomas Aquino, Concepcion, and a Visitation of Valdez, which evokes the whole poem divine unction
the biblical mystery, of Christ, also Zurbarán, amazing supreme pain and agony; of a Marquez
Jesus of Stephen (disciple of Murillo), who seems set for the inspiration and the master's
hand, and purpose of the Five Apostles of Polanco, an artist whose works I have seemed remarkable
for the power brush. Looking at all these figures, under the shadows of the deserted temple, one
can understand the superiority of the geniuses who, deeply agitated
by a feeling of piety and Christian idea, have created a new art form,
giving seal of majesty, the anointing and holiness.

This is precisely what stands out to tour the room that contains only works Murillo. The twenty paintings
that form this collection were made during a closure volunteer to be condemned by the pious
artist, exiled in the Capuchin convent in Seville. Murillo is well known that never began a work
without having received Communion, which proves how impressed him deeply religious feelings. The
loneliness was her best element, because infused recollection, she gave them their supreme
bliss almost inimitable character to all creations of the great artist from Seville. In this regard
it is worth a mention superior work of Herrera the Elder, which is in the prime living. San Hermenegildo
is an admirable, made in his dungeon by that artist, condemned to lose the hand for giving him
a slap to a certain cleric. No doubt the artist really understand the full value of your hand into a
chapel since produced a sublime work that earned him forgiveness.

Almost always the biggest productions born genius at critical moments and in the shadows of
the gathering.

Would be almost useless, and perhaps pretentious, to make a choice either between the twenty-three
Murillo paintings, worth more than five hundred thousand dollars, according to some insiders.
All are to that better. HOWEVER, the picture representing the miracle of San Francisco Assisi
is perhaps the most vigorous as brush work or labor. As a work of inspiration, nothing seduces as
well as the Worship of Jesus: the figure of the Virgin is an expression of purity and joy celestial
insurmountable, and the candor, simplicity, surprise guilty to the shepherds who peep the child
with childish curiosity, are inimitable.

       It may be necessary to mention also, as sovereign creations, the
beggar's box Santo Tomas de Villanueva, a San Felix of Cantalicio,
a Concepcion (the study of choice for Murillo) and Asuncion, very
kind rare artists have managed to copy or disclose their true condition.

*

* * * *

The reader will forgive me if I invite you to visit yet another interesting museum, simple portion
of this vast, complicated and precious museum of a thousand forms is called .-- I speak Sevilla
University Church, which overseas visit with great pleasure. There is a large collection of
interesting tombs in every respect. Among the ten that stand out are the Duke of Alcalá and
his wife, founders of the building, and other noble Castilian famous in history, they are true monuments
for the sake of form, the merit Marbles and the delicacy and richness of the reliefs, busts
and other sculptures or bodies. In class religious sculptures are a Christ Montañez, so astonishingly
higher alone is worth a museum and a San Ignacio de Loyola and San Francisco de Borja (Same
artist), which are impressive statues. The San Ignacio mainly seems to have made the supreme
ideal of art which can animate the marble, stone or other material, and give an eloquent speech
and a deeper look. The whole history of the Society of Jesus seems
to emerge a priori from the marble facing and that burning eye and
fascinating that polls and meditate.

As to paintings of the chapel, the altar and the side walls contain really works Roelas master,
Pacheco, Alonso Cano and other artists who had just celebrity Spain. It is well worth noting
that the art of painting has always run in pairs chivalric and religious movement of peoples.
Among European companies brush always seems to have reigned next to the sword and the shadow
of the cap. Italy, Spain and France, - the people more and more exalted warriors before in the
religious sense - have history revealed in the paintings with remarkable
energy.

Spain is a country immensely rich in paintings, because he had exuberance of conquistadores
and friars.

HOWEVER, few cities have on the peninsula has the privilege to Sevilla. Madrid, Barcelona, ??Cadiz,
Burgos, etc., Are essentially Spanish. Valencia is half Moorish, but much less in terms of
art to the two most notable cities of Andalusia. Cordoba is almost entirely Moorish. Toledo
essentially complex, but leaving dominate the Gothic and Greco-Roman in its main monuments. Only
Seville and Granada have the unique advantage of revealing simultaneously, for their artistic,
the most complete expression of different and even opposing civilizations.

       But Seville is still far superior to that Granada.

Sevilla holds them together and alive, with singular energy, all the Eastern traditions, as well
as evidence of Latino art and works of gothic top.

* * * * *

Mention a monument still extremely funny, which is a Moorish-style works more interesting in
that plastic art of sculpture and colorful as the Moors had advanced in the fourteenth century.
I refer to the House of Pilate, curious building which now belongs to the Dukes of Medinaceli.
It ensures that the house is a reproduction of which dwell the famous court in Jerusalem that left politicians
who sit and model the skill is to kill and wash your hands, a Crusader Auditors Spanish, again
Seville of holy war, wanted to perpetuate the memory of his campaigns in Palestine and that built
the House-Pilate brought under the model.

Whether or not the tradition, is that the house does not reveal in his works of art but the
florid Arabic style (most advanced) I could not have been known at the time of Christ, and that
had barely begun in of the crusades. But the question we do not mind the curious, we merely observed
and pick up prints.

Cross the famous house of Seville has two courtyards, the first ordinary and works of art, and consists
of two floors, with superimposed galleries, as cloisters. The inner courtyard perfectly square (generally
in the oriental architecture) is all paved with beautiful marble tiles and large black and white,
and has a gorgeous center source matching with four Roman statues in each corner. The galleries
are supported twenty-four columns, also of marble, grace and lightness, and all around the walls
are busts of Roman emperors worked very well. If pavements galleries and the central bottom and
walls of exquisite tiles shine (Which are mosaics of oriental art) at the top is a great luxury
of arabesques or relief, white and colors that mimic or reproduce the plastics and fine workmanship
stucco of the Alhambra and the Alcazar, - always servile, without originality or variation, but
always funny.

       Finally, around the courtyard, low galleries, are four classrooms
whose tiles, arabesques and ceilings are happy for the execution careful
and colorful.

The rest of the House of Pilate, though more or less funny, low flame attention, being noted that the
distribution of the building is extremely simple.

* * * * *

Seville is a city famous for many reasons, among others, by the eminent
men or characters history has produced.

They had their cradle Roman emperors Hadrian and Theodosius the famous Las Casas, painters Murillo,
Herrera (old) Roelas and Pacheco, the famous historian Herrera, called the divine, and poets
and Jauregui Rioja. Magellan went away to make his first trip around the world in 1519, and
Seville to Granada is challenging home of Lope de Rueda, the illustrious actor and playwright,
Molière kind of Spanish.

Each of the nine suburbs of Seville is marked by a monument or important factory. But Triana
is a specialty purely social. Is linked to the city, as I said, by a beautiful suspension bridge,
which disrupts or serves to limit navigation Guadalquivir sea. Its docks facing the main port of
Seville, as to the strengths that dominate the river and the railway station leading to Cordova. If
the first streets of Triana coming to the port have the general structure of of the city, to
move into this suburb is the complex issue of old Spain and Roma
populations.

Triana is the residence of all Roma Seville, whose fate is very similar to that of the Jews in
Rome, Prague and other cities Europe. Just as in these there is a ghetto or barrio where the Israelites
live or vegetate, confined in some places (as in Prague) and cruelly treated or banned (as in Rome),
Roma have their ghetto in every city of Spain, without ever inhabit other neighborhoods.

But there is a very substantial difference. The Jew is banned in Europe, especially in Rome,
a spirit of persecution and intolerance, or by tradition or custom, while the gypsy Spain is not persecution.
He is confined to a single neighborhood, outlawing himself, by race spirit (pride, resentment
and interest in isolation), and it shows Roma to form a separate community, both in Madrid (to
the door of Toledo) in Grenada (in the Albaicin) and in Seville in the suburb of Triana. Here
is revealed perhaps more energy to one of the hallmarks of Roma. In Grenada it is almost natural
architecture ground of that race, because the ground appears to indicate in the Albaicin. But
Sevilla not understood at first why the Roma are the same system (although varied greatly in
shape), even though the field is entirely level Triana. The appearance of the streets is very
sad. Rare are the homes that have a high floor, almost all are very low, with doors and windows
petty, small deserts patios, walls and ceilings regrettable that reveal extreme poverty and neglect.
The streets, very badly paved, are usually deserted, and when walking
on them can barely hear the noise of underground objects Metal Hammer
or cobbler, - or very rarely seen a female face, in a window, or a
small group of dirty boys in a hallway or patio, sad, poorly clothing
and repellents and rough faces in general.

It is rare gypsy's house has no basement floor is recorded from the street. The door opens immediately
on a kind of basement (the workplace), or by through a small vestibule tilted, either through
a grandstand almost abrupt. Rooms that are at street level are for bedrooms and other uses,
or dug deep on earth contain the workrooms, workshops and forges. Obviously there are the Gypsies
a tendency to life underground, which is not consistent in appearance with the nomadic habits. Even in the
way of preparing food is served from the gypsy holes dug in the earth, - procedure ingenious that
lends itself to mystery and promotes the rapid cooking of animal substances and vegetables. You may
have some ethnological principle determine these trends to the underground; but the simplest explanation
seems to be in the nature of the industry and customs of Gypsies. Race and tin smiths of people
who have no regular notion the idea of ??ownership, traditionally accustomed to fraud, theft
thieves, the mystification and the procedures with hypocrites, - the Gypsies have understood
clearly that their Breakfast should be appropriate to the concealment and deceit. Thus, when lead
nomadic life, home change from night to morning, about the place, and are always set in the
most lonely, and when forced to build their fixed residence Breakfast in the least conspicuous,
making a mockery of social control.

We were told that in the Triana district would see curious and animated pictures of people Roma,
which is quite large. But we find only sadness, solitude and silence. Perhaps chose the wrong
time or day to satisfy our curiosity. What I could get with Security was the belief that the
Spanish people there is no hatred or no concern for Gypsies (race which I find much less than
is generally incorrigible think), but efforts are not suitable for producing an assimilation
or full merger. There are many Catholic Gypsies in Spain, HOWEVER they are seen to persist in
habits of isolation. And the most curious is that the Catholic Gypsies (who are by Baptism and
without any awareness of Christian doctrines and Catholic) are distinguished Spain by the brutality
of his fanaticism, in moments of religious exaltation. This proves Fanaticism is always the companion
of ignorance, and that the full force of the truffles is anywhere in the domination of the masses
to obey mechanically barbarian the impetus given to them. The world will not get rid of religious conflict
but the day disappeared from the companies' barbaric element. " So we can understand the horror
The operators of religion truffles look any tendency towards training and education of the masses.
* * * * *

Seville is not only a commercial and agricultural center of the first order in Spain is also
a city ??on a large scale manufacturer, but little manufacturing. Large factories, called actual
manufacturing, which in other European cities to meet hundreds and even thousands worker and
consumer are huge masses of products do not exist in Seville, where machinery (As in most of Spain)
is still very backward. What is there is the small manufacturing and the engine, whose products
are very significant on account of the mass of workers and the multiplication of the workshops.
There exists an organization of work in detail produce visible results. Since the establishment
of a small factory does not require a train expensive, is very accessible to men of the middle
class and even the workmen acquisition one or more looms, a workshop or workshop, and therefore
is easier than in cities manufacturing step status to the master worker, employer or landlord.