 

Salvador soon found his friend, and found him drunk and playing, but gathering with three other
soldiers and two civilians. The colonel's surprise and joy were great. After hugging, retiráronse
a dilapidated quarter of the inn (as an inn, café, tavern and something else was that house) and
talked to more than an hour alone. When Salvador was removed rest in the same room that I spent
there, I thought I had won the game and was satisfied with his risky journey, which had the fortunate.
But God willed that all plans are disrupted and that every difficulty overcome born another
impressive difficulty. That recibiose afternoon announcement that Mr. Santos Thief, the daring guerrilla
Rioja, came Estella on five hundred volunteers, the cry of Spain by Charles V. Stood on the
move the small garrison of the place, and God knows what would have happened if it did not timely
Brigadier Lawrence, commanded by the Viceroy Solá with the regiment and provincial Cordoba Sigüenza.
Lorenzo did not rest in Estella. That night saw the streets Salvador Mayor and Santiago crowded
with soldiers, who were rationed with bread and wine, talked with them and could note that
reigned among the troops good spirit, although his enthusiasm for the cause that started to
defend was not very big yet.

Lorenzo started at midnight. The next day he learned of the battle of the Arcos that volunteers
were shattered and the thief was captured. Salvador saw second time the troops of Lawrence,
back to Pamplona, ??bringing the guerrilla gift Santos and Iribarren. The worst thing for our
friend, was that Lorenzo was also Pamplona to the three prisoners in the prison of Estella
were, and with this determination came to earth built by Monsalud plan in concert with pseudocyst.
Setback as unexpected success seemed to herald lousy attempts Salvador generous because Estella
prisoners were already sentenced to death. But it collapsed because of this, and put up to Pamplona,
??following the winning squad. It gave him an advantage on pseudocyst accompany him, to which
had humanitarian cooperation, although it would be difficult exercise in the same residence
of the Viceroy.