 Ignoring
the cause, Leonardo, who was fearless, back to the race, entered by force the huddle and took
his friend's trouble. More so he was informed by what had happened, laughed at will and he
said, I took for montuno, Pancho. You too have a figure ...

- I figure it has nothing to do with it, Pancho broke in a bad mood, is that these Spanish Jews
have more than men's.

Following the road from San Ignacio our students, before long led to the Square the Cathedral.
When they reached the gates of the house known by Filomeno, called them attention to a large and
compact group of people who entered the same on the opposite side, ie, Merchants Street and Boquete.
The vanguard, composed mostly people of color, men, women and boys dirty, ragged and barefoot,
and walked away, was already high, and occasionally turned his head back, and by spring. Between
two rows equipped soldiers lightly, because their uniform was of blue cloth jacket, pants white
belt holster attached to the front, round hat and short rifle, carrying by thirds were mulatto
and black twelve dressed in black serge robe, with white muslin cap, the tip of long floated
behind the head, by way of a pennant; and every man carried in his right hand a black cross on the short
arm and long shaft. Four of those grim men drove to the shoulder, hand chair, apparently a
human creature, whose head and body hidden beneath the folds of black cloth (muslin robe), falling
to lead out of the whole apparatus.

On one side of this mysterious priest came a black silk robe, cap in head and a crucifix in
both hands, the other a black quite young, strong and agile. This wore white trousers and round
hat, black wool jacket, whose back was discovered one as a yellow silk embroidered ladder. Indicated
that his office, and was nothing less than the executioner. He walked a measured pace and not
raise his eyes from the ground. Behind came a white man dressed in knee breeches, silk stockings,
cloth waistcoat and cocked hat, all in color black. This was the scribe. He immediately marched
a senior military officer indicated by the three braid of the coat and cocked hat laced with
gold, with pen white ostrich. Closed the procession other blacks and mulattos in the cut black
suit and cap White, already described, and more people, all moving in solemn and silent procession,
for not heard another noise rhythmic steps of the troops and the shrill voice of the priest
reciting the prayers of the dying.

For this quick overview habanero warn the reader that he was a prisoner death that led to the
gallows, accompanying the Brothers of Charity and Faith, an institution Religious composed
exclusively of people of color who was busy attending to the sick and dying and burying the dead,
especially the bodies of the executed. It is well known that the Spanish justice takes his
anger to the gates of the grave, and I Hence the need for such a religious institution, which
is responsible for collecting the body of criminal and burial, rather than relatives and friends
of those offices by private law or custom.

The troops guarding the prisoner in such circumstances, in Havana at least, was a picket of the
famous game of Armona, a kind of civil guard, established by Vives, who played the role of police
in other parts, the senior military, the largest square, Colonel Molina the time after the
Morro Castilian, whose employment died loaded with hatred of those who had oppressed and exploited
while he held the first of these charges: the individual that led to execution in the manner
referred to was not a man, but women and white, perhaps the first of its kind that ran in Havana.

CHAPTER
IX

     ... This is justice That
     the King orders facer ...

THE DUKE OF RIVAS

D. Alvaro de Luna.

         

     

Deserves to be counted, even briefly, the story of the woman whose crime was punishable with
the death penalty. Married to a poor peasant living in the outskirts of the small Mariel population,
did not know how long, or make the case much either. But without be young and beautiful, she
contracted illicit relations with an unmarried man of the people. Seas, which the husband find
out what was happening and threatened to take revenge, that lovers séase wanted to get rid of
that nuisance, the fact was that the two agreed on killing him. Y got this great job that
it costs to kill a man, tried to hide the traces Crime dismembering the body and thrown into a
nearby river bloodstained rooms, sewn into a sack. Such were the main facts elucidated in the case.

But
what role women played in the terrible drama? It was not clear.

In defense deployed as disinterested as rare eloquence the brilliant young lawyer Anacleto
Bermudez, [16] who had just arrived from Spain, whose advice had been received from attorney and
in that case made its debut as a working criminal. The fact was outrageous, however, and Women's
crime was proved, for if there had wounded with his own hand, had taken a leading part in
the murder and hiding the corpse. It was therefore required its condemnation at the last execution,
but it was the gallows, because then only applied the stick of noble people, even rarer event
in Cuba than run at a white woman.

The penalty of death hanging in the Spanish dominions was, if anything,
more terrible than the club, or generalized introduced some time after
that to which we refer to now.

The executioner, so I tied two ropes around the neck of the defendant, he threw from the top
of the stairs he sat astride the shoulders, and the heel will hit the stomach to hasten its
end by sliding the foot of the executed, whose body, in a suit cut, was rocking outdoors for eight
hours, two yards from the ground. Show similar should not be presented in Havana with a white
woman, for her to be vulgar or ugly his crime.

In such a situation, and when he had failed the appeal of an alleged pregnancy, Bermudez asked
and obtained as a special grace that make her die in a club.

The reader will recall that seven or eight years after that to which we incur now abolished
the punishment of gallows Cuba, which the prison sits on the western corner of the building known
as the House Government, which also operated the City with all its dependencies, where he
lived Captain General with theirs, and there was the notary public, the inmate had to go a
long and harrowing race before it ended its life in the countryside of Punta, immediately to sea.
In effect, Merchants Street went to the square of the Cathedral then twisted to San Ignacio, then
to the Chacón, then to Cuba, then by edge of the wall to pass under the vaulted door of the
dark called Punta, he had body guards and gave out the bodies of the city who had to bury in the
general cemetery.

Walk out that door besieged city, could see the defendant in the distance, against arrecibe the coast
against which the waves broke in tiny flakes of bright foam machine
terrible, hanging, club, or dock, which was to have his life end.

For a fearful mood, death with all its horrors was force them to submit long before you receive
it. Luckily, the woman who now speak, from the moment Chapel put her in His strength, and with
them the awareness of their horrible situation, be accurate, as we have seen, that would lead
to the place of execution in sedan chair, sit at arms on the club's bank, and now dead, dislocate
the neck vertebra to put down on his chest the last breath of life.

Five or six years after the events just mentioned, had changed a whole the appearance of the
area of ??Punta. The desolate and dusty west limiting early wooden houses in the neighborhood
of San Lazaro, on the south stacks of tables and imported rafters
United States of North America in the north sea and Castle Point,
their dwarf battlements looming behind crowded railway boilers for
the production of Carron Sugar, did a building of three bodies, massive,
square, built by Captain General Miguel Tacon for public prison presidial
tank and infantry barracks.

The space was found on the north side of the building, still blocked more with the construction of
wooden sheds to shelter a portion of the presidio employed in chopping pebble hammer, towards
the cobbled streets of the city McAdam by system. But, anyway, so the prison was separated from
the House Government, prisoners went to a building, although flawed in many respects, made specifically
for relief and security, was more convenient single-sex and crime,
and, in particular, was reduced to one third of the via crucis of
the unfortunate death row inmates, they have barely two hundred yards
from the new jail on the edge of the reef, where were carried out
executions.

From there and the Punta, to the opposite side, left receiving the death of the patriot and
hero, years later, Montes de Oca and young Facciolo; General Lopez and Spanish painted, the
brave Estrampes and, today, and Leon Medina and the innocent students of the University of Havana.

Incorporáronse
three friends to the grim procession, and accompanied by the side of the Cathedral seminar
to the door of a building which extends from the bottom of it and gives on the port. They had not
yet opened the entrance to the classroom, and the coup as two hundred students of law, philosophy
and Latin, the flower of Cuban youth, expands from the stone steps of the goal to the headquarters
of San Telmo on the one hand, and on the other long way toward the canopy and side streets of
San Ignacio, because of the narrow road. By a spontaneous movement, the student crowd was divided
in two rows, giving free passage through the street to the strange procession, which preceded a
rumor deaf as a swarm of bees looking for resting place.

He stopped for a moment before the door of the seminar, to allow time for four children of Charity
and Faith relieve the chair carried by hand from the jail. The Figure meanwhile, did not change
position or made the slightest movement, but although the folds black mantle completely hid
his face, his name and his crime story ran from mouth to mouth among all students.

- No one would say that there are a woman, said a student of Latin.

- Indeed, the statue looks more like a screamer to be living, added another.

- Regret the overwhelming, "said a third. So bend your head on your chest.

- Ya, a student said high amulatado aspect, the case no wonder. Now suppose I was horrified that
his own crime.

- But is tested, as the light of noon, as stated in the party law,
asked our Pancho known that Panchita killed her husband?

- So much
so that killed him will give him stick, he returned to observe the
student amulatado, with a certain smile of disdain.

For more signs that after his death, he jerked, and cosiéndole in
a sisal sack, he threw into the river to feed the fishes.

All this argument did not constitute a crime of Panchita Tapia, and
his namesake would replicate when another student was brought calling
out Campanula Spanish accent:

- By an inch makes the girl with his
consort is hereby given that the law is made to Item the parricide.

Just missed the bag out of leather, which had flames painted red outside and inside had put
a rooster, a snake and a monkey, animals do not know father or mother.

-
The Law of the Twelve Tables, [17] Pancho said quickly, raising his
voice and raising up a So happy to correct your student flat Spanish
- copied pedem litterae in games, he sent Alfonso the Wise compile
- not talking about cocks, but dog snake and monkey, and not because
these animals known or unknown father or mother, but simply to deliver
the criminal to his fury.

The Code considers parricide Alfonsino women still who kills her husband. The practice today is
to drag the defendant in a basket attached to the tail a horse to the foot of the gallows. So that,
if not drag Panchita Tapia, accused of this heinous crime, the reason
is because I do not agree to our customs.

I said.

This Pancho away quickly from that group, something not allow time for replication part of the
Spanish students. But he contented himself with saying, seeing him away:

- It is known that the boy has studied the lesson.

At that point they opened the powerful cedar leaves the door Seminar better known then under
the name of Colegio de San Carlos. The large patio is constituted four riders wide, stone columns,
forming a square. In the center was a source, and all around lush and leafy orange trees. On
the opposite side of the entry main, left, had a stone staircase leading to the clusters of
teachers, on the right, a fence that separated the corridor of a dark alley and humid which is
penetrated by a side room, long and dirty water separate port a garden
or orchard high walls.

That way they gave a high and four windows where the only light came half lit the room. Against
the opposite wall, in the center, poyaba a bad chair, and on both
sides of it there were many wooden benches tough, strong and high
back, placed transversely.

There he taught philosophy, then taught for the first time this science to Cuban youth the illustrious
Father Felix Varela, who wrote a text for it, withdrawing entirely from Aristotle, followed in
Cuba only until then, since the founding of the University of Havana in 1714, in the Convent
of Santo Domingo. When later, in 1821, Father Varela representative went to the Spanish Cortes,
was replaced in the same chair the most outstanding of his disciples, José Antonio Saco, and
the moments of our history The lawyer played Francisco Javier de la Cruz, the absence in North
America Owner and founder of his virtuous expatriation.

In the corner on the left was another room, with input directly from the corridor, where Plumas
father taught Latin.

Then, occupying most of the other hand, was the refectory of seminarians and some faculty
residing permanently in the same building and left of the main entrance was the broad staircase,
giving access to brokers upstairs. It rose by law students not seminarians, while those of
philosophy and Latin entering respective classrooms, already mentioned, for flush doors the patio.

In
the morning we are referring to, when law students set foot in the first step of the stairs,
stopped mass repairs in a group of three subjects in lively conversation about there, under
the corridor. On his remarks could take 28 to 30 years of age. He was of medium height, his
face white with color very much alive, and torn blue eyes, large
mouth with thick lips and dark hair and straight, but hearty.

There was some reservation in appearance and elegantly dressed, in the English. The other three
characters you could say the reverse of the medal already described, as a stocky body, large
head, short neck, curly and very black hair, big eyes and protruding lower lip lip, leaving
uneven teeth hover, wide and misplaced snuff added a leaf color that was much doubt the purity of
their blood. The third differed in several respects from the two mentioned, being thinner
than them, older pale and looked very nice and delicate. This was the philosophy professor, Francisco
Javier de la Cruz, José Agustín Govantes above, a distinguished jurist
who ran the chair of patriotic duty, and the first named José Antonio
Saco, fresh from North America.

It preceded the fame of his writings in the Weekly Messenger, which published in New York, they
said, with the cooperation of the beloved Father Varela, especially those who dealt with about
events and prominent figures of the revolution in Mexico and Colombia. About However, just
read in Havana, producing a lively enthusiasm, critical and political controversy with the manager
of the Botanic Garden, Don Ramón de la Sagra, in defense of Matanzas poet [18] José María Heredia.

Following
that, the young Cuban, who already gave to politics, began to drift away botany class that sought
to teach La Sagra, taunting him as he admired to Saco, who had decided by an insurgent, with
whose opinion, something unique, she attended plane the government of the colony.

Some law students recognized him, of course, having studied philosophy with him in 1823 and murmured
his name, which was enough to make it stop and make a exclamation rather curious than anything
else. This was to attract the attention of Govantes, which, by signs, ordered his followers
to leave the classroom, where he would shortly.

There, in fact, headed in droves and entered the room with great jubilation, speaking Saco, de
Heredia, in his famous anthem of the exile and his equally famous ode to Niagara including the collection
of his poems printed in Toluca, Mexico, of botany lessons La Sagra, and heroes of the revolution
in Colombia, even then imperfectly known by the youth of Havana.

When, soon after, entered Govantes a slow pace, with a book under his arm and smiling face and
lively, stopped abruptly students and complete silence reigned there.