 And do not give,
I am quite sure that if the long run you in the state of mind that is now, not here again for all
the days of his life.

- Men - said I caught in the middle of right - that's saying a lot.

- No more and no less than fair - "the doctor - because it is the truth, and you can not and
should not do that, but let's forgotten some promise and to the solemn occasion which was ratified,
because you have nothing to do in this world that tempts him, and here yes, because there -
and dispense openness - despite his personal merits, it would not to be one in the bunch of
anonymous, and this would play a much more lucid, not by the glitz of its hierarchy, but by
the charitable status of the position. None of this means that you are perpetually forced
to bury here: on the contrary, I would the first to advise him not to, that from time to time transposed
these summits to whoop it up, pretty sure that these raids, made by a man of understanding and
culture and flows you were to look at the end of the benefit of this valley. But to reach that
end, that is, that I may excite him to leave, must be assured here before with something that serves
as a bait to return, for natural and spontaneous movement of your heart ... In short, you have
to get used to this house again and this earth, and these men, such as they had come to seem,
to the death of his uncle Don Celso.

- But the man of God - I cried
here - if my finger exactly is that bad, if that you tell me seems
to think my own thoughts and said with my own language; if I do not
want anything to stick to this land and take her all the love that
you have; But how?

With what? This is the case. I live my uncle, the obligation and converted into comfortable,
to accompany me entertained, and with it, everything around him, killed him, I needed that
powerful resource, I get lost in the emptiness of this house, and overwhelmed by the endless hours
I happened there looking for ways to shorten. Continue his charity work. Congratulations.
This is easy and beautiful to say, but is very vague and does not solve anything, and what I
need is something more concrete, more practical and time. If it were, eg, to cut shirts poor
or teach the doctrine to the boys, I would spend the whole day driving, scissors or ingesting
Padre Astete on the heads of these motilones, but it is not that or something similar: the
work of my uncle does not what to do every minute or every hour.

- What do you mean? - Interrumpióme Neluco -. Do you know her thoroughly in case?

- No, sir - I said.

- And you think - he said - some entertainment on to study it in that way, not only access
to it, but to improve it? Because you also have to demand - continued mediquito kidding - that
the better, and better security