 

Hyoscyamus NIGER (Bethlehem).

§ I. - History.

Plant Solanaceae Juss pentandria .-- From monoginia, Linn. Henbane, taken as a general narcotic,
only the authors has received very limited modern properties, and
read, you can not doubt that the ancients used to a greater number
of diseases.

It is likely that the abuse it has been relegated had concluded by
the number of drugs inapplicable, if you fail to specify Hahnemann
use by esperimentales data.

Physiological effects .-- § II.

High doses produced primarily drowsiness and sleepiness. The dream was driving to the opposite
state when it came to awaken, and excitement of the senses developed and intellectual faculties,
well-being and better physical disposition. In other circumstances, even stronger doses have
resulted in a significant depletion of the pulse, paleness face, coldness in the extremities, dimming
of vision, seizures, fainting. In most common cases of poisoning have been observed: dizziness,
drowsiness, delirium cheerful, pupil dilation, hallucination of the senses, gestures, ridiculous,
aphonia, coma, lethargy. At the same time from the first moments of intoxication, are noted
nausea, extremity of the dry throat and mouth, anxiety, epigastric
pain, but later diarrhea, general cooling, extremity weakness, tremors,
pallor, cold sweat, pulse very small and uneven, loss of sensation,
paralysis of the limbs, swelling of face, panic, fainting, and a kind
of suffocation.

It is not logical to try this drug for these purposes alone, and accept their action hipostenizante
by the lack of symptoms flegmásicos.

The weak and medium doses resulting in more symptoms special and more useful, and can be deduced
more elective action henbane and their therapeutic applications.

Few drugs whose symptoms better expresses the three degrees of sharpness, subagudeza and fatigue,
or, to speak accurately about the henbane: 1. º the excitement, 2. No spasm or ataxia, 3. º prostration,
because the drug is only indirectly in the system work circulatory
its action does not extend to the capillaries but by his strength
of concentration in the nerve centers, and one can say that the two
poles of this action is the brain and the capillary system, or perhaps
the brain and nervous extremities.

Henbane, because if it is similar to the deadly nightshade for its elective action in the brain differs
mainly for their lack of direct influence on the blood system, so far Henbane has not, like
belladonna, rubicundeces scarlet skin, blood or orgasm, nor hard and full pulse or hindered
in their development itself offers henbane blemishes skin and swelling in the face, but some
are black, and the other pale or dark, and these characters, together
with its congestion passibility indicate, not an activity of circulation,
but a stagnation of blood in the capillaries.

Examining its pathogenesis, we espressi in various parts of varying degrees of action, as shown
by the following: talkativeness, irritability, envy, now behold have symptoms another significance:
anger, delirium seizures, certain hobbies, and loss, in short, the
knowledge, apathy, clumsiness or muscle weakness that comes rather
from a congestive state asthenic than an active or acute congestion