 If I had done as he was told the Princess,
had lived more than a thousand years.

Tell me you do not like to go see the Dragon Palace, across the sea, where the god lives and
reigns as king of dragons, turtles and fish, where the trees are
emerald leaves and jewels for fruit, and where the scales are silver
and gold tails?

RAVAGES OF LOVE AND JEALOUSY

TRAGIC DRAMA

THIS drama, so too tragic, devoid of any literary worth, but is published here to satisfy the
curiosity of a few people who wanted to see him when he was represented and did not succeed
because of the smallness of the room that served as a theater. The author wrote The drama at
the request of the graceful and unobtrusive Miss María de Valenzuela, who prescribed certain
conditions that should hold his work. The drama was not to last longer fourteen or fifteen minutes,
the action had to be as awful as fast, and, except for parades and dumb characters, they only
appear in the six partners, three male and three females, all of whom had died of disasters and violent
death in the same scene. As frightening outcome was not to be due, or plague, or famine, or fire
heaven, nor any other supernatural means, but everything had to happen simply because gruesome
frenzy effect that love and jealousy in the soul of a passionate woman. I believe I have fulfilled
the above conditions imposed Miss me then I am proud. I recognize, however, that my play had
not been so lauded and celebrated not for the merit of the actors and actresses that made me
the honor to represent you. These were the nice lady Dona Rosario Conde Luque Rascon, the two
Miss Ms Mary and Isabella de Valenzuela and D. Alfonso Danvila, D. Javier de la Pezuela and
D. Silvio Vallin. They, not the reduced and poor poet's inspiration, success must astounding
that won the drama, in the beautiful theater that Mr. D. Fernando Bauer improvised in home,
and whose magnificent Moorish décor beautifully painted Mr. Conde del Real Appreciation. I
should add here that is not dispensed by any means, nor apologized diligence to ensure The costumes
and scenic pomp and corresponded and even enhanced the greatness and solemn majesty of the argument.
My production now stripped of all the beauties they then lent claim will be very difficult to
like.

I, however, I venture to insert here relied on the indulgence of
the public and to please the many friends and acquaintances who wish
to have it in print.

ACT ONE

    Castillo magnificent lobby.

    Large door in the background.
    Side doors. It is night. Roars the storm.
    Deep dark, sometimes
    illuminated by vivid lightning.
    Much thunder.
    
    SCENE
    
    Ms comes dressed in costume Brianda
    mid-fifteenth century, and with
    a candle in his hand.
    
    Doña Brianda.
    
    Oh what a night, my God! Sometimes
    I feel hot and sometimes cold. Thunder
    and lightning and barbarous
    fury hail the hair on the forehead
    I bristle, I have the heart and made
    jelly. And that I am brave
    that no: well-known
    D. Ramon, my brother I leave at night
    so fatal and out, confident
    of his fortune with all the strong and fresh squad
    who rules and governed which feudal lord. What
    they will do is a mystery but must be set very seriously.

    Half a league from this house safe is already the Moorish kingdom
of Granada, where havoc and death will lead entering riot.

    But in the meantime you can come to this castle the Moor and give
me that feeling, and to miss a little of my decorum.

    Great are my fears!

    (Dan loud knocking at the door.) What horror! Who called? Divine
    heaven! (Sounds
    a voice from outside.)
    
    Voice.
    

    Castle Ah!

    Hello!

    

    Doña Brianda.
    
    (Who has come to the door
    and looked through the
    hole key.) Woman's voice and looks alone.

    (Go back and look through the hole.) But no, that accompanies a black
lump.

    Who is it?

    

    Voice from outside.

    Open up!

Doña Brianda.

Heavens! What tangle is this? Whose voice
drives me now the heart of proportion? or have lost his mind or this
is the voice of Doña Urraca.

Doña Urraca.

I am. Open, Brianda.

Doña
Brianda.

Sign. I'm like soft wax.

SCENE I