 The positions of these young people (because they are
in majority) respond admirably to the elegance that shines in all its manifestations of refined
spirit. You have put your neck on the edge of the couch and your feet on a chair, another twist with
the left hand and right mustache fondles a calf below the pants, who remains rested with arms
crossed, who deigns support the soles of her dainty boots in the red velvet chairs.

The Savage Club is rather an arrangement that an English translation (Savage Club). Rather, it
has been translated with a graceful freedom that keeps him alive inside Spanish genius in close
alliance with Britain. In most of the title belongs to the English all the appliance or outside
of society. Members inevitably get the coat by if it is winter nights, the summer smoking if
the servants spend knee-breeches and wig. There an elegant and spacious dining room, arms room,
cabinet de toilette, bathroom and two or three sleeping rooms. Does the club also service cars
and horse owners chair. The Spanish genius is manifested in many internal details. The most in characteristic
is the absence of stamped metal. This gives rise to many strange relationships partners together
and partner with the outside world, which are a complicated and beautiful variety that will not
be found in any other nation on earth. Results, especially a huge development, inconceivable,
that powerful lever with which the nineteenth century led term the most grand and magnificent
of its businesses, the Credit. Realízanse within Wildlife Club of credit as many operations at
the Bank of London. Not only partners provide each other money and play on their words but also
perform same with the club, considered a legal person, and even the janitor at official capacity
and as an individual. Outside the circle, the wild, dragged from their enthusiasm and reverence
for the credit, they do play on almost all its relations with the tailor, the landlord, the
car manufacturer, the importer of horses, jewelry, etc.. no mention here other major operations
in the same class that occasionally performed with a banker or landlord. Thanks, then, to
this invaluable economic element, had become almost unnecessary, between club members, cash,
replacing the former by other means entirely abstract and spiritual, the word spoken or written
word. Lived spent the same as their colleagues and models of London, not pounds or shillings
or ESP or anything.

Clearly, then, the superiority of Spanish over English club in this regard. Also it is about
openness and cordiality with which members treat each other.

Little recently been moved away from the right forms, ceremonies, which characterize severe gentlemen
of Great Britain, giving her treated more local color, bringing it in as possible to our quaint
neighborhood of Lavapies and Wonders. The media, race and time are items which can not be ignored,
so in politics than recreational societies.

The club begins to warm up even after twelve o'clock at night, reaches its peak period at three
in the morning, and from this time begins to decrease.

At five or six remove all holy week in search of rest. During the day usually be little crowded.
Only two or three dozen partners come for the afternoon, before walking to their jets shorts.
Still dull sleep, speak little. They need the excitement of the night to displayed in all its glory
native powers. These seem concentrated in the most noble task of putting the nozzle of a beautiful
caramel color. If the objects of art have been once useful objects, whether art carries with
it the idea of ??futility as some say, we must admit that members of the Club of the Wild, in nozzle
act as true artists. Hácenlas come from Paris and London, are engraved the initials of their
respective owners and over the crown of count or marquis if the smoker is; guárdanlas in beautiful
boxes, and when it happens to take them out to smoke do so with such care and precautions,
which actually become more annoying than useful objects. There are wild havoc without winning cigarette
smoking on cigarette, just for the pleasure of smoking tip before any of his colleagues. And if not,
at least, no one cares snuff taste. The important thing is to blow the smoke over the sea
foam and you have more color alike. Occasionally they get the fine cambric handkerchief, and
with a delicacy that will honor long time devoted to rub gently while his spirit rests abstracted
all earthly thought. Serious, solemn, harmonious in movement, more partners Distinguished Club
of the Wild suck and blow smoke snuff two to four afternoon. There is in this task somewhat intimate
and contemplative, as in all artistic conception, forcing them to raise and lower eyelids the
pupils to better recreate in the pure vision of the Idea.

In this very high state of mind was our friend Pepe Castro smoked a contained leg of a horse,
when he drew from his ecstatic voice from afar Rafael Alcántara shouted

- "So it is true that you sold the pony, Pepe?

- Few days ago.

-
Is English?

- Is English? - Said looking up at his friend with surprise
and counterclaim -.

No, man, no, the crusade.

- Chico, as not even two months ago that you purchased, did not think
it got rid of it.

- There you'll see - said the beautiful continent
by adopting a mysterious skull.

- Any hidden defects?

- Me, I can
not hide any defects - he said proudly.

And everyone believed, because in this branch of human knowledge had
no rival in Madrid, if not The Duke of Saites, reputed as the first
overseer of Spain.

- Ah, come on, lack of light.

- Nor.

Rafael Alcántara shrugged and began to talk to those near him. He
was a young blond, worn face, small eyes and green, evil and hard.

As a further three four of the day attending the club, entered it,
alternating with all the high aristocracy, without any rights.

Alcantara was a humble family, son of an upholsterer of Main Street.

In no time he had spent the little farm which his father left him
and then lived Game and loan.

In and around Madrid had boasted of it. The condition that kept him open the doors of high society
was his courage and cynicism.

Alcantara was a brave man indeed, had been beaten three or four times
and were ready to do so by the smallest pretext.

He was also a shameless, always spoke disparagingly, even if the
most respectable person, willing to mock the world.

These qualities had indeed acquire great prestige among the young savages. He was treated as an
equal, is He had all the revelry, but no one asked for money.

- My general, you will be like yesterday Tosti, huh? - Ramon Maldonado said addressing Patino.

-
In the romance only, - answered the warrior sensitive after a skilful run long puff of smoke
into his mouthpiece representing a shell mounted on its carriage.

- Do not say that the duo have been wrong.

- Boy, I say!

- Well, sir, then I declare I do not understand a word because I thought
it sublime - said the young man with signs of being bitten.

- This
statement will honor Ramon.

You know you justice - Cobo said Ramirez, who never missed opportunity to bash his friend and rival.

-
Oh yeah, and you alone are the smart! - Said the council strongly -.

Mira, Cobo, here the general because he has reason to speak, are we? ... but you need to shut
up because I spend an ear as a cook.

- But man, why are both Ramoncito sting, as you say something? - Asked
General laughing.

- I do not know - Cobo said giving a hickey on
his cigar while his features contracted with a slight grin -.

If you contradict him angry, and if I repeat what he says the same thing.

- It is understood, boy, is understood! If you already know you're a joker's first force. No
need to work harder in front of these guys .... But it is now, has
given a good pineapple.

- I hold the same as the general.

The duo was very badly sung - he said quietly provocative Cobo.

- So what if you hold one or the other! - And beside himself said
Maldonado -.

If you do not know a note of music!

- Stop! I have more right to talk about music, since they do not like you the piano tinkling.
For I am at least be harmless.

There followed a long dispute between them, living and decomposed by Ramon, quiet and sarcastic
by Cobo, who rejoiced in getting one of their boxes.

Not a little amused also present, becoming a part of the council and others of his competitor more
extending recess.

- Do you know that this evening bat Alvaro Luna?
- Said a weary when they were about the dimes and Councilman diretes
and Cobo.

- I've been told - Pepe Castro responded by closing his
eyes with pleasure, while sucking cigar -.

In the garden of Escalona, ??right?

- I think so.

- A saber?

- A saber.

- Come on, a more Chirlo - Leon Guzman said from his seat.

- With tip.

- Oh! is another matter.

And the wild present then showed interest in the match.

- Alvaro little strip.

The colonel should take advantage.

It's more of a man, and also with power strip.

- Too - Pepe Castro said taking out his handkerchief after throwing
the tip of rubbing cigar and carefully putting the nozzle.

All eyes turned toward him because he had a reputation for skilful marksman.

- Do you believe?

- Of course. Energy is convenient to a certain limit.

Turning from him, very vulnerable especially when the Sabres have
edge.

If they are cut off, yet the attacks intensifying without rest can
do something.

At least, it is possible to stun the hand.

But when The lead should be beating about the eye.

Alvaro does not throw much, but it is cold, has a close game and
stretches the peak is a beauty.

Not neglect the colonel.

- "The issue has been the sister of Alvaro?

-
Apparently.

- And to him what the hell cares?

- Ps ... there you
will see!

- As there is love, I do not understand ....

- Everything
would be.

- The girl is golden!

This summer in Biarritz, she and the boy put a Fonseca so in the evenings on the terrace of
the casino, it was a matter of taking pictures lit.

- There Cobo, before leaving, also made some pictures in the little gardens solvents.

- Yes, yes, it has committed me that girl! - Cobo said comically desperate tone.

- I did not have much to lose.

From the business you're disgraced Teresa - Alcantara said.

- Always go with the beauty of misfortune - Ramon said with ironic twang.

- You, too, Ramon?

"- Exclaimed with astonishment affected Cobo -. We arrived on time for throw birds to guns.

-
Well, gentlemen, I confess my weakness.

I can not be next to the girl without getting bad - said León Guzmán.

-
Not this girl can not be next to a boy as handsome and as cheerful
as you without getting sick too - Rafael Alcantara said.

- Do I want
to seduce, Rafael?

- Yes, boy, that I leave tomorrow the key to your
room and do not look at all this afternoon there.

I need it.

- Is that I have a beautiful satin bedspread.

- It will take care of the quilt.

- And there is also a devoted servant
who with great love, drawing in the evenings.

- It will give two
dollars to the servant to go to draw the other side.

- And a neighbor
girl who spends her life from her window stalking what is and what
there is in my room.

- Is the forgotten ... I say, it will lower
the blinds .... Hey, Manolito, are you going to spend all youth lying
on the couch without a word?

Manolito Dávalos rested, in fact, in grim and melancholy attitude, not that he was out promoted
to head up the words of his friend. To name the rose heard with surprise and moodiness.

- If you you are in my position, what would have gained little joke, Rafael! - Said exhaling sigh.

It
should be noted that the young Marquis de Davalos, who had never
possessed an intelligence clear, teníala some time now quite upset.

According to the vulgar expression I was a little crazy or touched. His friends knew all this
disorder came from Breaking with Amparo, who had eaten in a short time his fortune and who was
still deeply in love. Tratábanle some protection between mocking and benevolent, but refrain,
if not too clogging and precautions, jokes with his ex-mistress, because ever be molested,
Manolito was the victim of anger attacks very similar to madness. She was just over thirty
years, was bald, her skin and withered lips, eyes off. Tell them their four children picked up the
mother. He lived in an inn with the pension I spent an old aunt who was heir apparent. On the
hope of this heritage some predatory lending money.

- If I were in your case, you know what I would do, Manolo? ... I married my aunt.

The friends laughed, because Aunt Davalos was about eighty years.

- Well, well - he exclaimed with an accent painful. Well you know you have not had to fight with
indecent usurers all morning to conclude by letting something ... that is outrageous pawn - he
said softly.

- To me with English! ... Do not you know, Manolito, every month I have to renew the bell the door of
my house because they spend so much throw them? ... But I'll take more philosophy. Far from upset,
I feel a great satisfaction every time he comes to visit a creditor,
because it is proof that I am a good son, that I fulfill the last
wish of my father.

The savages of the two groups looked at him curiously, smiling.

- How is it, Rafael? - Pepe Castro asked.

- You should know that
my father died, saying: "Duty, son!

On duty! First !"... duty were his last words. I, fulfilling this sacred council, try duty as possible.

Amused
his teammates this feature cynical celebrated with jubilation. Rafael, subtracting modestly
to their applause, came to Davalos, and passing a hand over his shoulder
he said, lowering his voice but not so much that friends could not
hear him:

- Yes, Manolito, no joke.

I'd marry my aunt. What is lost with it? Is a old .... Best! So will die sooner. But once you
get married you go to manage his fortune and have no need to wait the years it pleases you live.
To you what makes you loss better than me is twine. Kid yourself, if we had we would get fatter
than Cobo Ramirez .... Furthermore, as you are rich, the Birlas will Amparo a Salabert, do
not you understand?

The Marquis looked up at his friend's eyes widened, which reflected the doubt if he was serious
or joking. No warning at the imperturbable face of Alcantara sign of mockery, he began to relent. He
spoke of his former mistress with such enthusiasm and devotion that would make anyone laugh. The
project no longer seemed so foolish. Be entertained in thought long and study through all its
stages. Meanwhile Rafael listened with affected attention, encouraging him to continue with signs
and words of affirmation. No one would think that was mocking him, if only because from time
to time, taking advantage of those moments that touched Marquis looked at the tip of his boots
looking for some quite expressive phrase to ponder love, malicious
winking to friends who watched them curiously mocking.

Opened, the partition of the room. Alvaro Luna appeared.

The savages received him with shouts of affection and derision.

-
Bravo, bravo!

Here is the defendant in chapel.

- See what face brings.

- As the brink of the grave!

The newcomer smiled faintly and held a scrutinizing glance around
the room.

Alvaro Luna Count de Soto, was a man of thirty-eight to forty years,
slim, medium height, bright eyes and face hard and choleric.

- Have
you seen Johnny Escalona? - Asked.

- Yes - said a -.

Here has been half an hour ago.

He told me that lie ahead, which quarter to four o'clock come.

- Well, wait - replied quietly moving and sitting next to them.

The joke continued.

- Now, let's see how it is that pulse - Rafael said taking her by
the wrist and pulled a time clock.

The count gave her hand, smiling.

- Jesus, what an atrocity!

One hundred thirty beats per minute! No death row has taken them.

It was not true. The pulse was normal. This was stated by the same friends doing Alcantara a negative
sign. Alvaro was not altered by the lie. Possessed of courage and conviction that he had no
doubt, continued with the same vague smile.

- Well, tomorrow at four o'clock the funeral.

Sorry, because I had to go hunting with Brown - said one.

- And that is not small the race from the funeral home to San Isidro!
- Said another.

- No, man, no - he said a third -, will take you
to North Station to drive Soto, the family vault.

The jokes were not in good taste.

However, the count will not be impatient, perhaps fearing that the
smallest sign of impatience, at that time, hiciese doubt its serenity.

Encouraged with this patient, the young wild each time he pressed more with your leave, repeating variants
with the same idea of ??burial.

The truth is that were getting heavy, but not managed to scare her cold and faint smile. Respondíales
few times.

When he did was to Briefly complacent. Finally, taking out his watch, said:

- It's three. Remaining three quarters of an hour. Who wants to have a triplet?

Was a pretext to get rid of those flies while confirming his act cold
blood.

Three of the friends went with him to the game room. They soon surround
them others.

The joke continued as in the classroom.

- Look at him, how he shakes
your hand!

- Within an hour the man will no longer exist.

- Listen,
Alvaro, must legarme the Conchillas.

- No objection - that fixing
their letters said.

- I hear you, gentlemen, the Conchillo is mine
by Will .... What is the name that will, Leon?

- Testament nuncupative
- he said, he knew something of law to go in some time lawsuit with
cousins.

- The Conchillo nuncupative will belong to me.

Thanks, Alvaro. I'll have seen mourning and respect your memory as far as possible. Do you have
something to take care?

- Yes, that shake the dust every week or ten days. Failure to release
some tears all week gets sick.

- Current. So be it.

- Ah! and be
with his cane. It has been used to it and can not tolerate it by hand.

-
Perfectly.

Every time there was a greater uproar. The nonchalance
of the count was very good effect. Behind guess those jokes that his
friends loved him and respected his courage. In this appeared a servant,
and he submitted a letter on a silver platter. He took it and opened
it with curiosity. Al cross it again smiled and passed on beside him