 

Honda to bottom, following the course of the Magdalena, the scene changes entirely. The river,
as to better reveal the wildness of the surrounding region, it is more sluggish on their way,
and far from deepening its channel splits into many arms, widens sometimes as a small inland
sea waters hiding among the foliage of the forest secular, stands in his way a cluster of
picturesque islands, and becoming more unpleasant by the abundance of poisonous insects, the
ferocity of their terrible alligators, Ardentía the beaches devouring sun-baked, and the absolute
solitude of their twists and turns, its marshes and wild ravines sadness, reveals that there has
founded the man power, that humanity has not yet had courage to go into battle with the Empress
of Nature called deserts!

This is the region that I had to cross, following the stream of Magdalena, to give my farewell
to the homeland.

       

* * * * *

The Champagne turned away from the beach, paddles stirred the beat of the wild cries the bream, and
few minutes later, to turn its course for between monstrous crags
Magdalena, lost sight of the last tufts of coconut trees that indicated
the site of the winery.

The man disappeared to give the field exclusively to the vegetation.

Always huge, wide at first, loved everywhere, presenting the most beautiful the high cliffs overlooking
the shore, or in the luxurious halls of vegetables that came to extend their floating lace parasitic
vines on the beach itself, to where it leaves to heat in ignited sand beds, the fearsome and
monstrous crocodile, the terror of the inhabitants wave. And entire forests are secular cedar
with its dark shadow covering a slope failures disrupted by the upheavals of nature, and groups
of towering palms are pavilions where flocks of parrots swinging gorgeous; and on the cliff
of red clay layers composed of mixed layers, rises a group of giant guaduas (bamboo), which for a
thousand thin woven covered Bejuquillo flowers, flexible cast their feathers on the waves of
the river, and open for fans the wind, where a fairy forest has drawn on the most whimsical
green background arabesques and mosaics.

Everywhere luxury and lush vegetation, rich contrasts and variety of forms and colors in nature,
but complete absence of population and culture. If still note inflections in the field, is
because they have not yet completed the ramifications that two main mountain ranges of the Andes
- Central and Eastern - throw on the Magdalena different directions.

After the hills disappear, the forests are horizon, and eye of the traveler, tired and sad, sees
nothing but endless desert.

A nine or ten miles from Honda leads on the left, a small crystal clear river the Guarín, after having
fertilized the most precious imaginable plain - plain fruitful, varied grasses and covered with
immense forests of palm trees of all kinds and Caracolí giant whose
shadow walking in the numerous tribes of solid blacks and tapirs,
pursued by the terrible jaguar, while in the high battlements of the
trees are countless birds air concerts and always surprising.

       

* * * * *

After five hours of sailing, the champagne is docked alongside the steamer Bogota, anchored
in the port wine Rabbit. The landscape, seen from afar, could not be more gorgeous.

On the high cliff, covered in soft green grass, in all its extension, groups of huts bogas
room rustic and poor farmers in the desert in the vast central Winery building, thatched roofing,
single floor, and behind and between houses admirable forest, in
which a green background contrasted different inks beautiful hair
Coconut on the slender neck, palms of the guaduas colossal curling,
the round leaves of mango and mamey, and ramazones stout cedar and
Caracoli those sovereign sumptuous deserts jungles of Colombia.

And at the foot of these rich woods and these huts filled with local color, animated groups
passenger and vogues, so discordant and varied, and forming a curious contrast as The steam
that made champagne and Bogotá and indigenous households. On one side the luxury of nature, untamed
and magnificent, fragrant and full of mystery, the other the luxury of civilization, science,
and the ostentation of force man victorious. There the man primitive, crude, brutal, lazy, semi-wild
and retostado by the tropical sun, ie the Colombian fashion - with all his insolence, his fanaticism
stupid, cowardly arrogance, his incredible laziness and cynicism of language, children of ignorance
rather than the corruption, and more here European, active, intelligent, and elegant white,
often blond with his penetrating gaze and poetry, language, vibrant
and fast, its elevation of spirit, always distinguished forms.

On the one hand the heavy champagne, boat canopies dry palms, 20 to 50 feet long and two or three
wide - a kind of floating hut, - and assembled by many rowers who shout terribly and look like a
legion of wild desert or the miserable Indian Ramada, exposed to the wrath of the winds, the invasions
of the reptiles and wild beasts, or showers the storms of winter, with an extravagant household
as poor, and to cherish family savage appearance, the result of crossing two or three different races,
and for which Christianity is a mixed report of impiety and idolatry, the law an incomprehensible
mess, civilization a thick fog, and the future as the present and
past merge in a situation like torpor, indolence and brutality!

And at the foot of those huts that are under transition to a life that is closer to barbarism progress
still, stood the chimney, the pavilion and masts and picturesque sides Steam Bogota to protest
against barbarism, and prove that even in the midst of the desert and the sublime mystery of an
imponderable nature by force, the man is about to start universal sovereignty, making success
all over the strength of spirit on the power of matter. How well contrasted in the port of Rabbit
steam chimney, releasing their puffs of smoke and the wind carried away by the rain, with the
mast thin secular high and coconut, topped by swinging the breath of that wind the curly palm canopy
and flexible. The coconut tree, planted from colonial times, continued to vegetate, but the
vapor, son of the republic and instrument of freedom, came to wrap
in his smoke screens, greeting him with whistles of the locomotive.

       

* * * * *

The evening offered a wonderful scene, and to increase the incidents of contrast. In Bogotá
steam we met people from very different. The captain was a brave Genoese, Republican, free,
simple and cordial, and the passengers had not only Granadinos few, but British, French and German.
The warmth was established Suddenly, as always happens in every trip, and an Irishman of 62 years,
as big as a tower happy as a boy, drinking first order, as was his duty to honor their nationality,
and mocking and playful as all Irish (except those who are serious), introduced a delicious
disorder on the deck. Sang, danced solo, played violin and drums (instruments which I understand are
not bound by a close fraternity), and finally communicate to all its excellent humor. A few
moments later the nearby jungle echoed with the fiery chorus of all passengers singing (everyone
in the tone in which the podium) and the Marseillaise, the hymn sublime war and freedom, and
God Save the Queen's English, and the songs more or less popular New Granada, Germany and Ireland.
An hour after these edges of civilization and when all reposábamos in our hammocks, amid the
shadows and silence, a hymn entirely different, wild and melancholy, full of mystery, grandeur
and harsh poetry, suddenly exploded, supported by fifty voices hoarse and heavily rhythmic,
in the middle of a forest in neighboring secular beach. Case, intonation, style and mystery of
that song came to contrast beautifully with the hot little songs
before had sprouted from the sides of steam Bogotá.

Although the show I was unknown, I could not resist the temptation of looking at closely. So,
I jumped out of my hammock, I invited two friends and I went ashore, taking the direction we
indicated the song itself and a red light that glowed in the shadows of thick the forest. The
beach was deserted and not a fashionable sleeping on the awnings
of champagne tied to an anchor of iron and thick trunks.

After walking for a trip two hundred meters, by the middle of the woods, find an extremely
interesting show.

Under the canopy of a huge cedar tree, in a clean and sandy, there was a large fire fed with thick
trunks, conifer branches and large chunks of amber, junior, which is very abundant in those endless
forests. The flare was gorgeous, the perfume rich, and the trees cast shadows Hadan play with
light in an admirable fashion. At around the campfire were kneeling in confusion as fifty people
- men and women, old and young, locals and bream - and all at once with a voice raucous and rhythmic,
but too expressive about their accent, sang a hymn mortuary!

... Novena was a neighbor who had died three days earlier and whose body was buried at a short
distance away.

The song was a set of prayers in verse, extravagant, made by the boatmen and always used around
novena, and the chorus, so incomprehensible in language as strong
in intonation, consisted of a species of quatrain verses of six syllables.

Three men first sang a verse, all responded with the refrain, and then three women sang another,
and so on.

I confess that in this wild scene, but full of the charm of faith and piety, found more poetry
and more religion in the songs of steam Bogotá.

       The intonation was deep and somber, solemn, in spite of its rustic
harmony, and I was in that scene a big impression and teaching.

Poetry is unquestionably the most sublime manifestations of the soul their relationship with God,
man and nature.

* * * * *

On February 2, Bogotá steam picked up his anchor, he released his whistle morning, similar to
the cry the wild, and shaking with iron wings the murky waves of Magdalena, slid rapidly among
the dense green canopies of the jungle, leaving his brilliant marked foam floating trail in
illuminating the morning sun.

What impression so profound experience the heart of the patriot, dreamer of progress, when
trusts for the first time, as a traveler, to the second initiative, to the invisible spirit
of humanity, transfused into mechanical power, called the steam! The wave humiliates, running
fugitive, to the conqueror that crosses without fear it and lashes
the wheels of her triumphal car, the monster in the water seeks its
hidden caves in abyss, realizing that the empire of the liquid element
belongs to an infinitely higher, and the hurricane, that Jupiter formless
breath destroyer, which prevails on solitudes of the wilderness of
the jungle, the sand and ocean, seems tame in the presence of opposed
to a travel writer who shocks supreme creation of the mysterious force
science triumphant!

The Vapor! Ah! what a sight for a man of faith! That summed up for me marvel all progress and
glory of man, all the divinity of this being made to moral likeness of God, carries in his mind
the immortal attributes intelligent and thoughtful soul, Each wheel, each cylinder, each member
of the machine Bogotá seemed the picture of each of muscles and vital organs of man, there was concreted
the whole story humanity, because that machine was inspired by the
man motion, strength, tenacity, genius, faith, life, spirit, light,
civilization, progress unlimited and eternal.

My soul was dominated by a deep meditation. Sitting on the foredeck, the side of the wheelhouse,
looked with great pleasure the transparent and blue sky, high the Andes mountains, forests, river
and how the picture was, and from the bottom of my grateful heart, bless all revolutions, the heroic
efforts and dedication of men and peoples, giving his blood to the
past, we have won to posterity the progress of today and the future.

       

* * * * *

Nare to the port of all is varied and picturesque, Rabbit down. The neighborhood the mountainous
terrain allows inflections, and so soon the traveler is surprised In view of the huge forests
or small plains that end at the river, and admire intermediary the lush vegetation, high petrified
sandstone rocks, the dark mouths the Tigrito and other streams whose channel seems an endless
grotto verdure waves Blue and Black rivers abundant and La Miel, which support one and other side
of the tape Turkey to its current, without mixing with the Magdalena at the beginning, the picturesque
village Buena-Vista, located on a ravine and surrounded by high walls
of a centuries-old forest, dark background on which the masts are
drawn from the coconut and the white wall of the chapel parish and
a thousand other things that contribute to give the landscape variety
and charm.

Nare little above the monotony begins and guarumos endless forests, tree light gray that looks
like a ghost in the skeleton, to give the banks an aspect of sadness and sterility. The sun burns
like an ember, heat, 36 degrees is sufocante, and desolation of nature begins. Nare is a district of
population and look miserable unhealthy, and that except two or three families, it contains
but rowers and people of Indo-African race. HOWEVER, it is a very important point for internal
trade, for the State scale of Antioquia, and a nearby nice, fairly
flow is navigated by barges and canoes seven leagues above its mouth.

Nare was augmented in the number of passengers with a sturdy Scottish, mine operator, a dentist,
which inevitably turned out to be Yankee, and Antioquia that, as soon as it entered steamed,
promoted a raffle, and began his speculations. The Antioquia, descendants mostly of an expedition
of Jews from the time of Philip III, are the Israelites New Granada,
in point of business and travel, even on open and empty bottles are
essentially British.

One mile down is the famous Angostura Nare, terror of the sailors, and out of it begins the region
of the gorgeous islands of vegetation, more and more numerous, because the Magdalena, widening
a lot about an area of ??low-level flooding, endless as plain jungle diseminasus water in all
directions. For the rest, nature loses all their variety, - the vegetation, subject to floods,
appears skeleton, colorless and rough, and the hills out of sight
entirely.

Is no longer there but the desert immense, parched and no majesty or beauty.

On February 3 impressions what pleasant surprises, and pest and fatigue! First the encounter
the beautiful Vapor Antioquia, which rose from Barranquilla, light, color painted alive, like
a big bird, barely touching the waves of Magdalena. And there's screams happiness, the noisy greetings
among the passengers of both steam whistles gallant valves of locomotives, and teasing each
other sailors, spicy and original in the extreme. Steam Antioquia
had a strong loading of senators and representatives, undoubtedly
uninsured, and therefore his trip was doubly interesting