 Chose each his own trunk,
in the assurance that the same could serve as executioner under that, and there were, trusting
in God and responding to the prayers that booming voice led him Don Sabas, asking for everyone's
life, albeit at the cost of their own.

I feared and expected to arrive soon, black, thick, roaring, raging, as if all the sea with
its raging waves, and hurricanes and their roars, and irresistible push, had left his immeasurable
riverbed to stop by. Shook up the bravest (And they were much all of that intrepid legion),
and neither could realize full of the beginning or the end of this step as quickly as dreadful
hurricane. And had achieved only one of the strands of the tornado, ripped in his first game
against moles of the mountain!

There was in the oak trunks and broken branches removed and the soil appeared distorted, snow
removal where there had been great, and huge piles of it where there was little else. This was
the first thing that went through the eyes of the wretched, opened as soon as pursued with an
eye for each other. No one was in the spot it had occupied before the storm, and lay buried pepazo
half down on a pile of snow out of oak and a few steps from the ravine ... But there was one!
Chisco missing! and unresponsive to voices with which it was called, nor was he seen it anywhere
... Where do you seek? What site had served in the oak? Who was near him? Who had seen the
burst the black cellerisca?

At that moment took pepazo their stringers of snow and began to speak. He had believing themselves
out of oak outside to feel safer in the face the first whipping "the cloud". Observólo Chisco,
who was at his side, and called for a return to oak prior to before, if he did not fly over
the cliff or fall into it buried both gave: pepazo no, and yes Chisco, flings himself upon
the other to put him in. for good or bad, it explodes into the cellerisca,
and did not pepazo to hear or see nor feel anything of this world
to what he was seeing and hearing this.

Salces Pito, who never took his eye pepazo not miss a single word of what I was saying the
mozallón, as it ceased to speak of a rose was planted on the edge of the ravine, and there he
sniffed, with the ease of a good dog nose in all directions even in the black depths of the abyss.
The pain, the consternation of those generous and honest people, not for colored. It ran back
and forth, desperately sniffing Canelo (the other two dogs had swept the hurricane) was called
in all Chisco imaginable shades of human anguish, and were removed
piles of snow with the shovel, with hoe, feet, fingernails ... And
nothing!

In this is a cry of Pito Salces, and these words to life again to all:

- Here, porridge! I have no eyes or face.

Pete stood the good spread one's legs on the edge of the creek and looking forward down. There,
in the narrow spine of rock that only moved into the abyss and was rooted on the shore, about
thirty feet below where he claimed his men to look Pito and those who had come to his call, they
saw a body half covered by snow. Undoubtedly was to Chisco, by signs of her dress and size, but what
would some life into inanimate creature appeared? Pete argued that yes, because he dared swear
he had caught some "movición 'arm in it. Anyway, we had to get there. How? Where? And here
the longing and despair, because the relief was difficult and time was pressing inexorable.
The cut of the mountain on that side was almost vertical, overhanging the ravine, and had only a slight
stretch, very smear slope precisely to lead the rock with which he joined at its base. Between
the rock and the base of the slope had a space of several yards. In that space, too leaning on
the rock and well marked inclination into the abyss, was what looked like Chisco face down and
motionless, apparently confirming Canelo top beating wildly and looking for a path along which
come to the aid of its owner. For reasons of extreme caution, ordered Neluco to restrain your dog
in the act and he had far from the spot where they were Don Sabas, Pito Salces and he, running
on the problem of the descent. This was not impossible, let alone for those risky and skillful
mountain with auxiliary resources at their disposal, but in those moments provided a tremendous
danger, not for the come down, but for which was down and, helpless and inert. The slope was
covered, until the top edge of a layer would measure not less snow yard and a half thick, and must
measure perhaps much more double what it was in the plain below, on one side of which lay
no sign Chisco of life, even vowing to continue Chorcos yes it was intended. Remove snow from
above, was even slightly (and hence the Neluco precaution taken with cinnamon), equivalent to
produce a shift in it, which, gaining weight and speed of hand in hand, would to the rock like an
avalanche of enough thrust to drag Chisco to the depths of the canyon. This, it was in everyone's
mind was what had febrile and dismayed. All were willing to go down, but no one was allowed.
Salces Pito, who did not fit himself and walked miles per second in three feet of soil they
occupied their feet was suddenly punched in the face.

Puches! already had the idea.

- Are the ropes ready? - Asked.

They answered yes.

- Will we ca a Eyas to abaju?

He was told that with leftover same.

He then asked for a shovel.

Examined the rope, measuring arm in arm, the left then screwed into the ground near the edge
of the ravine, put blade on the thread, and turned to peer over the
edge.

Then he asked the nearest of that silent and looked at him with curiosity:

- Will there be even, even, six feet of snow on the way from there yanauca of baju?

- And more - are answered.

He took off the snowshoeing in a jiffy, he threw aside, lifted up
himself and said,

- The lightning, porridge!

Are pa when it thunders, and prayers, Don Sabas, pa when mesmu nesecitan as now.

He kissed his hand to the Priest; arrimóse again to the edge of the ravine said he watched the
amazed, to ignore the plans that will move to do those strange things that have lists the shovel
and the rope when asked him for a moment looked down santiguóse quickly invoked "Jesus crucified
..." and there goes that! Was launched into the abyss between amazement and horror of all. It should
be noted that since he noticed the lack of Chisco until that sublime awful, did not go ten minutes.
So fast it went, they ran and acted there!

Those who saw Pito Salces fall (which were all that remained above
the caravan, Canelo including) the right, stiff as a spindle, and
making the wings and swing arms for controllable in the air, unable
to figure out which came first, sinking into the snow to the cross
of their pants, or put both hands on the motionless body of his friend
preying on him.

Then he pulled the body with all its forces, managed to drag their
land and left in the snow in safer and backs.

Everyone knew Chisco saw him as well, but horror of horrors! in the
place where he had been resting his head was a smudge of blood on
the white perfectly distinguished dazzling Snow.

Almost at the same time it was this sad discovery, Pete yelled from looking back down from above:

-
There are men, porridge, and even his resueyu correspondienti!

- Up with it without delay! - Neluco then shouted from above.

- We must sweep the road first! - Answered Chorcos from below -. Échenme a shovel before with before,
because I have the idea, porridge!, and vaig jiciendu above it that I see abaju JACER over
here ... as I advise.

Blade fell quickly, perfectly plumb and on-site that pointed to Chorcos hand, took possession
of it, and began to snow EXPAL right and left, throwing over the edges of that air and lower
peninsula joined to the mainland of the mountain by an isthmus that was three yards wide.
In two minutes it was clear and the isthmus open a path in there campizo which covered the
stumps of the cliff, until the pile of snow which lay Chisco. Then the intrepid boy was pulled to
the base of slope, and there, as if he were in the garden of his home, without worry the least about
the horrific vision of the abyss that opened at half staff in each of his feet, he began to EXPAL
snow slope, side to side, sending at the same time it did above the same, as the blades reach.
Without base and the snow slope and removed overhead, began to slip
into the isthmus, which was split into two waterfalls disappearing
in the ravine.

Clear and clean the slope in a few moments and unfettered, therefore, of the dangers they feared
before, he fell down the rope called Chorcos, tied as it should and
he knew it, his friend under the arms, and gingerly pulling up and
helping the He fondly from below, was Chisco, who could not do anything
for themselves, leaning to the slope.

- Up to him now! - Salces Pete
shouted, as pulsu, because if no one brazu cascau yeva has of faltali
POCU.

Chisco arrived happily at the top, down the rope again, Atos her Chorcos, subiéronle; and no
one stopped to ponder the feat, and it occurred to him that he had done worthy of the name,
ran to surround all Chisco, who had already taken over the doctor in the oak groves, attended
mainly by Don Sabas. The head wound was negligible, and the arm was not even a dislocated shoulder.
The worst was the blood loss weakened him very much, and what might be of concussion, although
how compliant was a good sign that the whole body was showing the remedies that you Neluco
applied. Three quarters of an hour the patient was sitting by his own efforts and their free will,
another quarter of an hour later, asking detailed news of all that had past the hour and a
half, he ate with great appetite and was drinking when he gave, and unfulfilled two hours,
rehearsing their vigor of kicking in the snow walking and praying
to Cure Neluco because it broke the place quickly.

Walking now, said Don Sabas your doctor:

- And they say that miracles are no longer! Be in the canyon wall smooth one rock ledge, go for
the death penalty Chisco dragged by cellerisca; have a bed rock more
than six feet of snow, and engage him in blankets cellerisca over
another Thus, for the fall out soft.

Are not these miracles? And finally, is not the greatest of all the occurrence of Pete? For what
would have served the other without such barbarism?

As it was necessary to accommodate Chisco walk, his gait was not ordinary,
down to Tablanca lasted much more than estimated at the output of
"Cuevona" of "Pedregalón of Escajeras'; and how, even so, the monsoon
of Robacio was not iron, became tired and not feeling much well as
the night wore on grew colder and colder.

There were fears that Tablanca unable to reach their feet, and looked for shortcuts to soon.
How come, at last, Neluco and patients, we have already seen us. It Chisco heated bed, he
stripped off his wet clothes, he was given a friction brandy, and was lying in bed when referring
Neluco in the kitchen these events more than once clouded the eyes of Facia, and made us tremble
with fear and excitement Tona her daughter, while my uncle was shaking her chin and stuck
little eyes sparkled in the narrator. As for me, to admire as much as I admired the heroic
atrocity Pito Salces, and feel so deeply as I felt the terrible misfortune of the poor Chisco, I was
still all in comparison little box of horrors that I had been building
in the head during the day and much of the night.

Finished the story, with detailed comments from listeners, and refreshed and with Neluco lumbrona
heat, god around Chisco's bedroom, saw and saw all sleeping profoundly a quiet sleep without
any sign of fever, caused us instructions what could happen until he returned the next morning, called
the bluff and Facia had prepared him, took leave and went to his house where his housekeeper would
be crying by entrusting to him and to God. I then explained to my uncle, the reason for these
events, my conduct throughout the day appeared calm with it, leaning against us shortly after
the lazy, I had dinner with an appetite as I had not felt one in
my life, and one hour after we retired to sleep.

A sleep! ... Good went to do the hours of that day and night memorable!

Tell me I got into bed with his head crammed with special events and heart full of impressions,
saw the storm raging in the mountains, rocks ripping uprooting trees and secular, and a dozen
men, simply and naturally generous shrouded swirling snow and hail, rolling on the floor, such as
leaf litter dead trees; saw Chisco dying in the back of a rock, on a black background an awful
abyss, saw the desperate yearning of his fellow-sufferers, who were not how to get there, and
saw, finally, to Noblot Pito Salces flying through the air and risking their lives at the start
brutally sublime, just trying to save Your friend, which surely would have done the same for
him a lot, I considered all As representative and valuable in the light of common sense these
things, and simple attack the trip to the mountain on a day like this, in the pure and holy spirit
of charity, as The most natural and simple, without any protest, without the slightest doubt
and no idea even from the remotest hope of profit or applause, and could not help it, I remembered
I had read and heard many times in my world, the resounding din that used to move in chat rooms,
casinos and papers, and honors and ribbons that were requested and granted for award a "deed"
not worth two cumin good sale, I also thought of my poor uncle whom the questions first and then
the knowledge of reality with all its details, were affected very deeply, and that I had left
the bedroom door much more depressed and haggard than usual, more tiring and more haunted by
coughing, in Finally, I even thought so in good justice, would have won in estimating Chisco Tanasi,
who was not worthy of a big animal like pepazo, and Pito Salces in Tona, there would be no
thrown by the wayside the atrocities of Heroic mozallón how truly loved her.

Until well after midnight did not start the sleep feints to confuse and stack these thoughts
and those images in his head, and that was precisely when I heard few knocks on the floor
of the apartment of my uncle. He used to call it with a stick that put leaning against the headboard.
But the shock of that night was something distinguished them from the blows of other times,
heard by me without warning. Could this be true, or product of a hallucination of mine, but
I, in doubt, I stuck to it first and I got a leap, lit the candle, got dressed in the air and
went to the call. And what I was I feared. I found the poor guy sitting up in bed, iris color,
looking for distress, mouth open, panting and breathing hard, and a rattle in the chest that
looked like death. Recited, syllable by syllable, the Miserere psalm ... and I did not know
what to do or what to say at first: I imposed that picture had never seen and felt at the
same time very compassionate. Armed with that sort attacks had several drugs at home and gave us
some instructions Neluco to combat trouble in the first moments when he warned him, but I
could not quite make or to have anything to anything. So I looked stunning!

It reached the two maids, who had also heard the shots, and, seeing his master from the door, I
said Facia ear:

- What mesmu that again!

Tona He turned flying into the kitchen to a term of his mother, and it stayed with me in the sick
room.

Ether, hand baths, poultices ... I do not know how many resources were put into play there! A
whole lend the distressed lord, unless it is notified Neluco or Don Sabas, because after of
the struggle they had had since the dawn, they needed rest as much as him. And beware that
the poor Chisco found out what was going on! because it was able to rise risk of getting worse,
and Chisco and the Cure and Neluco and I and Facia and every one
of the sleeping or resting at that hour or went healthy and good for
the house, made missing in the world, all but him, that seeing themselves
in this predicament was seen in his own interests and in what was
natural.

All of this was telling us little by little, as he fixed his eyes
on us crystallized and longing and cadaveric in sank his hands a bowl
of hot water, building relief that would produce this and other heroic
remedies we applied it constantly.

- In addition - we said - this
is not death yet, I know him well, and if I thought otherwise, and
the priest would be here for my order, for the account of me.

Gravel! ... But it is another reminder of her ... We, the second touch, the third, the mass
... and do not lie, the funeral mass, the body of your uncle, Marcelo, your master, Facia, which
is already in abundance in this home and abroad ... Blessed be God forever ever, amen!

Then he began to pray for the low, and as he calmed the anguish was closing eyes, until finally
falling asleep, and so asleep and waking up every moment Before long. Toward morning the attack
disappeared completely and the patient slept quietly and at a stretch, about two hours. But what
I had wanted for the Neluco night to warn, and what my own anxiety by dawn!

When morning came, at last, I was shivering with cold ... and sadness, seated at the head of
my uncle's bed, having seen from the sunshine of my room that did not appear the new day more
cheerful than the last, and sent a wire to Neluco to anticipate the visit as he could.

XXIII

As my uncle was found free of the attack on waking from sleep,
relatively quiet, I had watched since dawn, and saw the room lit by
daylight, although brown, melancholy, forgot the anguish she had suffered
fatal few hours earlier, and he had not told other desire than to
jump out of bed to make life normal.

God help us reduced cost to us even listen to the reasons we had for oppose the reckless and
dangerous endeavor. Neluco, which was already present and well aware for everything that happened
during the night, he had really upset and even lacking a bit different respect. If not for the
good, bad that day would have to stay in bed and the next, and the other, and lasted as long
as the snow storm. Be avoided colds at all costs ... Then they would see. To which Don Celso,
casting by the loops of fire fox and clenching his fists in anger:

- For you it was! For you and for all of your driven trade, the tricky mediquín gravel! Why
do you take me? What wood you've thought that I am? I will arise ... or not I arise, and as I
see as gall, but not because he pleases so or to asao no undertaker live ... because life is buried
in cuartajo! be in bed days and days to a man like me, without fever
or pain.

After he surrendered, rather than conviction, for lack of strength to get away with it; but
turned his face to the wall muttering protests and abuse as a child upset.

Released this and while we would see Chisco, I said that perhaps the doctor had why my uncle in
his contention with us. Nature was so extraordinary!

- There is nature worth - I replied Neluco - at a certain age in life
and certain diseases.

- But how serious is it to have my uncle? -
I asked.

- I've already responded to you on another occasion that
question.

- Yes.

- Well, you stick to it, and offer government for
better intelligence, which each hundred patients from this class,
although young men are dying ... One Hundred and One, So you just
imagine if there have to be careful, even to stop the death of Don
Celso few days.

What is needed here now to discipline him a little, is to organize the editing assistance at the
same time the life of this home.

You may not accommodate certain tasks, improper of their habits and
even their nature Facia is the stamp of melancholy, and her daughter,
Tona unable to meet with the most affectionate of the applications,
skill and polish it missing.

Moreover, neither the mother nor daughter can, by their servant,
imposed impetuous whims of his master, who, moreover, he knows them
by heart, as than you.

More than wines and drugs, must attend to this patient with entertainment
distracting him and glad and require you to be docile, even by courtesy.

Finally, I Mari Pepa thought. Mari Pepa is coming here as a nurse with all my heart, and coming
it will come Lita too, and under the pretext of accompanying Don Celso, pass to his side all day
and make this big house an aviary. You what do you think?

Pearl seemed to me, and so he declared to Neluco. He was to turn the plan into a thing made, and
arrive in the bedroom this Chisco.

Which was no longer in it or nearby. Tona asking him, we knew that he was, some time ago, fixing
the cattle.