 Geneva has so much poetry and so entrancing lake seduction their multiple reflections,
their vague rumors, its transparency and its dazzling waves sweetest, one feels like a dream
delighted and transported to remote regions of the Alps and the Jura.

If the French Genevan differs from the seriousness and circumspection, lacking the playful vibrancy
and sharpness that joke they call esprit, if his accent is hard and French very bad (in most
of the middle class and the masses), and if physiognomic types, although revealing much intelligence,
are gentle and lack the self-energy lines of purebreds, also has very valuable qualities. Enthusiastic
public interests and fine causes, sober and serious words in his convictions, laborious and persuaded
the nobility of work, their customs are pure, without any cannot, and in all consciousness
manifest acts have equal right and duty. Geneva is not a single beggar or a drunk, and except
for those who travel for pleasure is no idle there. The French verb flaner [6] so characteristic
of Paris, has no significance in Geneva.

[6] Spend time as a slacker, walking in public places and curiously aimless pointless.

As works of art, the monuments of this city are not of much interest. If modern Gate-New and
some are elegant and well suited to its objects, the former are a solid architecture, heavy
and cold. The botanical garden, though small and relatively Again, it's funny and well equipped and
maintained. The Museum's collections are academic abundant and valuable. Besides the public
library, containing over 40,000 volumes printed and 500 manuscripts, some of these very interesting
or curious [7] Society Reading has an upper cabinet that there are 35,000 volumes in print
and an assortment of 140 newspapers of all kinds. Rath Museum, founded by General of that name,
contains a remarkable collection of sculptures and paintings, ancient and modern. The college
or university is worthy of all esteem. Geneva, being so small, it has also: an astronomical observatory,
a conservatory of music, several high schools, an array, an excellent machine hydraulic works in the
Rhone to the service of the city, and many establishments primary education, charity, credit
and economy. The Canton has the merit of having in primary schools than 7,000 students receiving
elementary instruction annually.

[7] For example, a manuscript of Cicero, lit, the homilies of San Agustin, written in the sixth
century, and some volumes of autograph letters, sermons and Calvin's manuscripts.

As was natural, nothing caught my attention both in Geneva and the houses of correction or penalty.
The death penalty is abolished there for many years, and Geneva is perhaps the second European state
that has adopted the prison system of the United States. Although there are some differences
between the two prisons in Geneva, its system of administration is based on the principles of
criminal legislation philosophical isolation, work, surveillance, the economy and the stimulus given
to the amendment of the offender, rehearse describe, the observations
that I could do on a visit to each establishment.

The House of Detention has a double purpose: it's prison for women, whose seclusion can last
for many years, depending on the seriousness of the offense, and
it is a simple correction for men who, from the age of ten, are sentenced
to detention cell until for one year for crimes, if they are elderly,
or crimes, if the accused is a minor