 Josephine was a miniature portrait of Louis. While he was happy, his face insert and smiling,
the merry twinkle in his eyes did not look like much, but now unfortunately and pain had printed
in his eyes a deep sadness in his features a look of fatigue, which were the two things that
characterized mainly face the Count de Onis. When those beautiful blue eyes turned to her sweet and
resigned when those red lips were folded demanding forgiveness, Valencia was run her withered body
a shiver of pleasure, something that reminded him of the joys adulterous love had made him
experience.

After all, it had not aged at all, nothing but that face that was bent in ajarse and that horrible
head fertility produced with white hair. Meat his body, his chest, his arms behind his back,
kept the same smoothness of alabaster, adorable same brightness, the hallmark of a fine and
beautiful race. Palpábase, seeking consolation, your hands dry and it was smooth and fresh.
Meat that had not faded. Under her youth pulsing, a warm blood circulating, eager for enjoyment,
devoured by the growing need for intoxication of love.

And yet, all those delicious things had fled for ever from his novel life, which had embellished
its shadowy existence in recent years, had reached last chapter. It was an old! Case closed.
In this thought, which was introduced in the brain like a hot iron, he felt a rush of animal
need to scream to roar, to destroy. It was in those moments when she suffered the most cruel
punishments, when their fragile existence was real danger.

Fear was another of the sufferings inflicted upon him often. In the wee hours of the night doeth
up and sent it to the extreme rooms of the house for any object. The girl becoming pale, trembling,
sweating with anxiety. Sometimes it was so much fear, he dropped the candle and threw running
back screaming. Amalia was angry then, pinched her, beat her, claiming that the site was again appointed.
The creature was left would torment and kill before it left. On one such occasion he said smiling
fiercely:

- Ah! "So the lady is so fearful? Okay, I will undertake to cure the disease.

He remembered the extraordinary impression of night terrors than ashamed Luis had confessed to him
in times of expansion. Began to give terrible fright. As soon hid behind a door and shouted sharply
to pass, as he caught carelessly and pressed the neck. Other times he took a knife and said he
was going to die, he ordered shirt that came down to cut her throat better. The latter did not produce
as much effect as expected. Josefina subconsciously wanted the death that would deliver so much
martyrdom. To better "Remove the fear," between Concha and she invented a sinister farce able
to terrorize a brave man, the more a girl of six years. Both dressed themselves with sheets, left
the half-lit room while the girl slept, they stood a skull masks, and Midnight came plaintive
shouting and souls of this world. On waking the creature and see those ghosts, was paralyzed by terror,
then tapose eyes with hands and a cold sweat bathed his copious body. His heart began to give
blows so strong that heard at a distance, let out a few gasps and grunts, and finally, taking
the hands to his chest, he rolled on the ground senseless, horrific dam seizures.

No fear was healed, but instead it was since then a fatal propensity to syncope and night terrors.