 

As to women, their faces were more sweet and really cute clothes. All had abundant blond hair color
of gold, tied outside the caps forming huge threads, or pending on the shoulders in thick braids
with big bows black tape. If the largest number of countrywomen were not wearing on his head
but his great black hood with wide lace point, many had crowns of huge artificial roses. Bra and
wore all black cloth skirts or chestnut color, with sleeves, bib and apron Indian or white muslin.
Furthermore, all revealed their benign nature and its modest Wellness in their round meat, her
rosy cheeks, her candid and affable smile and his eyes blue filled with sweetness.

All this population of Grindelwald has its rooms still in the valley,
because in spite of its height and proximity of the Nevedas is protected
against many storms.

In the summer cultivate some fields, and others go up into the mountains to cut wood or tend
their herds and make cheese. In the winter go down to your district and villages of the valley,
and while the deal stronger in the mountains down timber cut, others are enclosed in their homes
to work embroidery and lace, wooden curio making, cutting and polishing glass, etc.

The day was declining and needed to return to Interlaken: assemble again on our stroller and
started the descent, giving a greeting of admiration to the show
wonderfully beautiful and varied than we had seen so delicious.

The sky was full of light and splendor and the morning breeze curled
the waves and we came from the mountains laden with the rich aromas
that emanate from the pine forests, when they boarded a steamer funny,
which soon began to cut like a swan fine brown waters of Lake Brienz.

More than forty passengers we were on cockpit, and not a few were clustered toward the bow.
Some went directly to disembark in Brienz, at the upper end of the lake, others were to stop
at the little port buffer of Boenigen, the higher the number we pass to visit for a few hours,
the beautiful Giessbach cascade. On the right we could see distinctly the broad belt of water
Cinderella the Lütschina, flowing on the left bank of the lake and a trail of ash thrown on the
green carpet in a pasture. Later, the same side, we almost touching the gorgeous little island of
Boenigen or Schnecke-Insel (island-of-the-snails), which resembles a miniature produced by sprites.

Lake
Brienz, perfectly similar in color to that of Thun and produced by the same river Aar, is less
significant between the first order, but the deepest of all those of Switzerland. Measures just
about 15 kilometers long, N.-O. to S.-E., by 6 wide, and its depth reaches the prodigious extent
of 600 meters at some points. Lake receives some streams, of which the most curious is that outputs
to the waters of Fouls-see (or Lake-rotted), located above the mountains,
disappearing into cavities torrent groundwater does not come back
until they are ready to throw into the lake of Brienz.

The mountains determine the basin of this are much more rough, wild and higher than the lake
Thun, and rise suddenly in great sliced ??thick walls seem to threaten to peak collapse on
the airwaves. HOWEVER, in the long circumference of the basin are about ten or twelve villages,
of which the most notable are those of Brienz and Boenigen, with a total population of about
7,000 inhabitants, picturesquely perched on a steep hills and at the foot of dense pine forests,
and other resting softly on lakeshore.

As we approached the waterfall Giessbach the show surprised us by his grace imponderable. There's
nothing that impressive and sublime majesty of the cataract of Tequendama, capable, and others
in Colombia, to deeply religious poet and an atheist (if that can be any) to only show the colossal
wonder of Creation. No: the interest of the Giessbach, as the best waterfalls in Switzerland,
is in grace, caprice, the variety delightful. In his presence you can love, talk, laugh and flirt,
while in front of Tequendama not allowed but watch in awe, admire and ponder the infinite.

When jumping into the little port of Giessbach, almost at the foot of the waterfall, all passengers
we dispersed by the various intersections of the hill, thrill-seekers to content our curiosity.
The mountain, covered with thick forests, open resulting in a lean sort of a valley, about 60
or more feet above the lake, taking the limit lower in the huge rock overlooking the river, and rising
from inside the thick mountain to a considerable height well. At the end of the lean is an elegant
preceded by beautiful hotel terraces, and in front of him rushing waterfall, jumping loud and vegetables
across vast shadowy alcoves hung with lichens and mosses.

There Each traveler is standing on the balconies or stone balconies allow at intervals closely
watch the waterfall.

The torrent was precipitated from the top of the mountain by a narrow opening, resembling a huge
jet is launched from a roof by between stone balconies and covered with garlands studded with severe
curtains floating vegetable. It is composed of a succession of cascading fourteen falls or cascades,
of proportions and different aspects, forming a huge step of eddies and rocks, which are launched
on the waters in bright plumage, in huge jets and spiral crystal iridescent clouds of fine rain
If the whole seen from the front, charming, very delightful experience to be placed under one
of the over huge boulders where it turns a passage played in the
hollow of the rock, feeling wrapped by a whirlwind that jumps over,
forming a superb vault and foaming liquid which fits nicely in the
dual context of forests.

The contrast is very sensitive if you get from the waterfall to climb to the viewpoint is on
the edge of the mighty rock that stands on the banks of the lake. From there with his eyes covered
by a supremely beautiful landscape. On the right, at N.-O., is the upper valley of the Aar
Hasli or of the entry of the murky river to the lake and Brienz and some other peoples, to the left,
the beautiful valley of Interlaken, and beyond the lake of Thun, the front, a huge fortress
of rustic mountain majesty in the background, the total extension the lake, quiet, asleep and alone,
it seems as indifferent to the anger of the stream of Giessbach it launches its sparkling streams,
and whose quiet love misleading travelers amazed that the shade of
the pines provides the abyss of liquid emerald has at his feet.

Add to that the whistle of the locomotive of some vapor that passes through the lake, waking
the echoes of those breasts of granite and projecting between heaven and waves his snowy white
plume of smoke, and you will have the full picture that stimulated our admiration.

* * * * *

Brienz is a small village of about 1,800 inhabitants, lively and curious, thanks to considerable
trade with excellent cheese, its manufacture of sculptures and curiosities Wood, his old ruined castle,
its renowned cantatrice of national songs, and the neighboring cascade Muhlbach measuring 360
meters high. We stopped in Brienz scarcely time for refreshments and to pull a wagon which
was to take the valley of the Aar in the direction of the canton of Nidwalden, through Brünig
neck. Arriving at the foot of the mountain, the end of a bridge across the Aar, we got out
of the small trap: the driver became Muleteer and guide, left the
carriage to the side the wagon road, two robust and saddled horses
shot dull, assemble and start to climb the hill, enclosed in modest
cottages and rows of stout walnut.

       

After an hour of idle and lazy for a rough stony path, we boarded a flying close to the side
of the hill encircled. All artificial vegetation had disappeared, and walked to the huge landslides
through the snows and rains occur, the foot patches of spruce damaged by hurricanes. Looking
back we watched the romantic view of Lake Brienz, had the joker down Hasli valley (in the center
Meyring delay) crossed by the Aare and dominated by towering mountain walls perpendicular to
one side.

It was interesting the contrast of objects composing the picture. The Aar was overgrown and out of
the womb, had gray waves inundated with many portions of the valley,
dragging huts and fences destroyed, lots of pieces of wood, whole
trees and some animals.

In the rest of the valley was all happy and smiling, thanks to the various fields and villages,
farmhouses and cottages scattered in every way. Above, the S.-E., highlighted in the distance the
magnificent glaciers from which emerges the Aar, but close in the second term of perspective
swarms of spruce-covered mountains and in the first place, overlooking the valley, rose as
an artificial wall, huge, bare rock and melancholy through which ink parallel plunge from great
heights, like ribbons of polished steel, the beautiful waterfalls of Oltschibach, Falchernbach Wandelbach
and [20].

Thus, the picture was a set of desolation sad, majesty and picturesque landscapes, summarizing
various kinds of poetry.

[20] The termination means in German bach waterfall or stream.

For the rest, Hasli valley, in whose region above the Aar born and ends the territory the canton
of Bern is one of the most famous of Switzerland. Has the peculiarity, as chronicles and comments
made, that all its population is composed of the remains of two pure breeds, originating in
the north, under a Swedish immigration of 6.000 and 1.200 Ostfrisones that came to settle in the
valley in the fifth century All that population, beautiful type vigorously, professing the reformed
religion, while at the opposite side of the mountain we were Trasmonte
the Catholic religion dominates with the same exclusion.

Perhaps among social phenomena there is none more curious and worthy of attention than geography
of religions, so mysterious in appearance. In Switzerland, more than any other European country,
far from artifice current conventional religions, we can see this phenomenon within populations
rustic and simple. Indeed, we see that between two some mountain valleys separated by high
school, or on a plain crossed by a stream, a queen without a competitive side and the other
Catholicism Calvinism.

And HOWEVER topography production and weather are exactly the same or similar race and a language
same, and differences in institutions and customs insensitive. How has able to determine the absolute
religious discord? Evidently the action or historical pressure governments. However much we may
say otherwise, it is governments that make people, and that is why the responsibility of the
former is infinitely greater than the of the latter.

That the reader will disguise this moral digression (perhaps inappropriate from the heart of
a mountain) and deign to join Brünig Trasmonte neck, leaving the beautiful valley of Four-cantons,
as through a forest full of rumors, rich and wild beauty of majesty and mystery.

The forest was huge and her beauty only comparable to the poetry of his loneliness. We walked
without seeing a ray of sun, low arches and pavilions endless dark
greens colossal colonnade resting on fir, covered with lichens and
mosses.

No noise mingled with the strange echo of the footsteps of our horses and to the vague rumor, without
cause visible but eternal, which is the mysterious voice of the forests. But from time to time
felt explosions caused by mines in the rocks that drilled deep in the jungle some laborers,
opening a highway through the middle of the abyss.

After returning to reign silence, when not interrupted at times melancholy, guttural singing
of our guide, and walking meditation, we thought we were wandering in an entirely wild .... Error!
to us, over our heads, was also from tree to tree, hiding under the branches, a partner, an invisible
spirit, which perhaps we would say something to him without which we could perceive its wonderful
language or read his mind. Who was that mysterious companion? It was just electric telegraph wire,
wire, animated as we are a fluid and a thought, natural and social soul, attesting to the
presence of civilization in the bottom of the lonely forest ....

Each village, as I said not long ago, is revealed in his way of taking the great progress of civilization.
The refined France and England the positive spin their electric wires for very long series of artificial
poles, painted and filled with pieces of porcelain or glass that insulate the wires separated
fluid. Swiss do not take the punishment to execute those work, the telegraph to accommodate
every whim of the topography, and the series its poles are the natural colonnades of pine forests,
the most luxurious rooms Switzerland poetics.

* * * * *

We had entered the territory of the canton of Nidwalden as we descended the mountain of Brünig,
toward the beautiful valley of Lungern. The sun had hidden behind the gigantic mass of rugged
mountains that stretch from the group Giswylerstock up Mount Pilate. In some points of the route,
where the forest is cleared a little, peeped a piece of the lower horizon and we could perfectly
distinguished as the configuration of valleys and lakes from the
foot of Brünig basin are directed towards the capricious, irregular
and Gorgeous Lake Lucerne or the Four-cantons.

       

The canton of Nidwalden is composed of two half-cantons cantons or twins, which rotate parallel
in the direction of S.-E. the N.-O., taking his whole a severe simultaneously and funny, the
juxtaposition of mountains and buttresses that sail in all directions and its numerous and smiling
valleys, some of which are small lakes fall the most poetic aspect. The twins in that country
are very unequal proportions: well, the bottom half canton of Nidwalden (Valles-de-Down) scarcely
covers a quarter total territory, and no exclusive lakes, although
it has banks in the Four-cantons and Alpnach.

The chain of mountains divides Kernwald, but the brotherhood is maintained until in the names of its
major rivers, called both Aa [21]. The territory of the two half-cantons stretching from the
magnificent snow-capped Titlis, the E. to Mount Pilatus, to the west, and from the heights of Bothorn,
to the south, to the left bank of the lake of Four Cantons to the north, near the famous site
Grütli; based thresholds and the cantons of Uri, Bern Lucerne and Schwyz, and measuring 48
kilometers at its greatest length, 36 in its widest and 687 square kilometers of total area.

[21]
Celtic word meaning water, and with the addition of r (aar) means current water or river.

The half-canton we had more in sight and we were going to go in the most notable was the Obwalden (Valles-de-Up),
which has its own capital. From the top of the mountain we watch the narrow valley of the Aa
and very cheerful than at the bottom of which appeared, with the serenity melancholic waters reflect
no light beam, Lungern lakes, Sarnen and Alpnach [22], linked together by tape Aa funny, as three
unequal plates of aluminum in a magnificent imitation enamel bracelet emerald. Nothing is more
peaceful and graceful its kind in the valley of Lungern, surrounded
by very high mountains on three sides, as a dead end, and whose glossy
green patch of grass and fall beautifully in under dark fir forest
crossed by some landslides.
