 Marquesa
is angry with her, and that it must leave the convent to be decided. Insists this a lot, huh?,
tell him we leave for Madrid, and again in the Court of King José I. .. Devil, that has sounded
a howitzer shot! ... I seem to have dropped a grenade in the roof of the house.

- A grenade? At least fifty are shot and - I said, poking the fire of his fear to go away soon
and leave me so sublime commission.

- So, my boy - he continued, shaking like a leaf - will you do it right? If you get answer take her
home.

Go soon. I shake myself running down the street where noise does not feel ...; goodbye.

Diplomat disappeared, driven by his fear, and immediately entered the convent porter with feverish
joy, and say loud thumps on the lathe.

A nagging voice told me.

- Deo gratias - I -. I come from my mistress, Ms. Marquesa de Leiva, to bring a message Miss Agnes.

The
concierge told me to wait in the parlor, and soon to be there corrióse curtain I saw this and two
nuns. I do not know how I stand on my feet. One was Agnes.

I had no doubt, was herself: in her face, thin and pale, had terrible form traces the sixty days
of constant sorrow since May 2, but I recognized, despite the very low light in the parlor,
and had admitted in the darkness of the bowels of the earth.

It seemed to me that he closed his eyes, and grabbed the bars with
two hands to hold.

When I addressed the first question, his voice trembled so, it was impossible to understand his
words.

No one can say, incapable of speech and movement, I stayed a short time with the face resting
on the grate.

The nun who was with her made me finally break the silence.

- Mrs. Marquesa has given me flowers and this letter - I said, introducing both for the take Inés.

-
Ah, the field for the Holy Child Nursing! - Said the old nun -. Madame do not forget us.

- Has also given me a message word for Ms. Inés - continued - and is to be prepared to leave
the convent to go with her to Madrid in a few days.

- Oh! - Said the old -. Ms. Countess and Mrs. Marquesa are wrong to
oppose the determined vocation of this child.

Why the drive to take her to Madrid, where she wants to leave wickedness
and abominations of the century!

The poor thing does not accountable to anyone but their promised husband, who is Our Lord Jesus
Christ.

- Mother Transverberation - said Agnes with full voice - the chocolate
and buns that have made their grants yesterday to madame, where are
they?

Will brought his mercy?

- Not true.

- If you have the goodness of your grace to go looking for this young man take ...!

- Well you could have brought them - said the old grunting.

- If Ms. Condesa not received this afternoon, very angry, and it will be difficult to convince
they do not want to leave this holy abode anymore.

- I'll get it ... what these girls!

Dejon Transverberation Mother alone, and then spoke as follows:

- Agnes mine, I'm alive, I have risen. I emerged alive from that pile of dead, where we lost
forever to our good friend Don Celestino. When you see me live without you, I thought that God
Life had returned to punish, but now I find you, I praise God because I see not once but twice, gave
me life.

- Should I go from here?

Should I do what I'm told the ladies? - Agnes asked impatiently, because they feared the return
of the Mother Transverberation.

- Yes, Agnes, get out of here. Do you send these ladies. What do they say in that letter?

- Here, read it - he said, holding out the through the fence.

In the dim light of the booth could read the letter, which stated,
among other things relating to and chocolate industry, the following:
"We hope that it will cease to profess your stubbornness.

We oppose strongly to it, and we do not want your income within this
family is signal annihilation of our house.

We told you that we had determined to marry a young of noble birth,
a project which lies happiness, greatness and dignity of the family
you belong.

Everything is arranged, and although it postponed because of the war, has finally to be, so
that if you persist in professing, we are filled with pain. Not long to serve solace in our solitude?
Not much for the love you profess? You do not want the position that belongs to you in our
hearts and in our house? My niece and I will to convince, and both have the trip to Madrid,
where he will accompany us, because your presence is indispensable to the measures of your legitimacy.
"

- Yes, I will go - Agnes said she finished reading the letter -.

I do not want to be here anymore.

- What, you were determined to profess?

- Yes, very determined.

I had no more comfort than the idea of ??locked up here forever. When Cordoba brought me ...,
what days and what a trip!, I do not know what it was about me.

They locked me in the convent ... then came the ladies to tell me
that was his niece ... kissed me ... cried a lot the two ... and then
said I was going to marry, and when I said, 'Well since I have been
here I have to stay here a lifetime ", they were cut a lot ... I frequently
visit, accompanied by an elderly gentleman, a thousand caresses me
and says really love me, but I have never given in to his pleas to
leave.

- What now?

- The walls of the convent fall on me, and longing
to leave.

- But you're getting married! - Exclaimed indignantly -.

I want to marry, and does not sink the world.

Then he laughed, I think for the first time since a long time, and that spontaneous joy I found
the expression of a resurgent life.

Agnes left the cloister within the heap as I dead of the Moncloa, and answered with a loving
smile to my complaints, took out the tomb of the Order so thoughtlessly
foot it inside.

Seeing her laugh, I laughed too, and to the point, ignoring the situation, we spoke with the
confidence of those times when our sorrows into a single.

- Oh, girl!

Now that you Archduchess and panjandrum, do not you ashamed of loving?

-
But what do they do with me? - Asked, getting sad again.

- Look,
princess, do you send these ladies: obey him in everything.

You've already known the relationship you have with them. God has placed in their hands, accepts
what God gives you, and fix the rest.

- I will leave the convent - she said -. Ay! Do not be frightened little Mother when I hear it
say. But God does not want me to be a nun.

- You will not, not, and when I return from the war ...

- But are you going to war? Boy, who I have gotten to you at war?

- For what shall I do? You want life to be raised? Listen, Agnes, what happened to me For days
at home of Mrs. Countess.

I went to visit her, and having committed the indiscretion I wanted to tell you, is so enraged
that I was put on the front door.

Agnes clasped her hands, then dropping them with dismay on her lap, while rising his eyes to heaven,
saying nothing.

- I am only a servant, Agnes! - Exclaimed, holding tight to the fence and shaking, as if to smash it -,
I am only a wretched boy from the streets, unworthy of being watched by people in your category.
After we broke up, look how far we each other. But do not think that I'm sorry, I like to see
where you should be.

- What about you? - I asked in bewilderment.

- I'll do what I need, Inesilla. Come out of the convent, go to the ladies and wait quietly the
second that I'll pick you.

Then if you have not changed ... if you encounter the same ...

Contestóme instantly from your index finger by one of the holes in the fence. I kissed him, I bit
it so without thinking, she could not repress a little cry, Mother-to-point
Transverberation back with chocolate and biscuits.

- What's that
girl? - Asked the old woman, amazed to hear her scream.

- Nothing,
Mother Transverberation.

This grid has a peak ... Moving my hand hurt a finger - said Agnes,
sucking the joint of the index finger and shaking then to pretend
the pain of course scratch.

- Here are the chocolate and buns - added
the nun -.

Well, it's time for you to leave this young man, because it obscures and not have time to open the
parlor.

- Raging'm about to leave - I said -. Come here and that those chocolate buns, that Ms. Marquise
will be with the soul in a thread waiting so good things. What I say to grant in response to the
message that I had the honor to bring?

- That is fine - Agnes said, pressing his face against the fence .-- What shall I do what I'm
told, and when they want to come for me, I'm willing to leave the convent.

- How's that girl? - Growled alarmed the nun -.

What do you get out! What was your Future Spouse Jesus Christ if it reaches his ears you said!
And you should know necessarily because He is everywhere and hears everything. Nothing, nothing
- he said, snuggling his nose to the gate -.

Raptor Ms. Marquesa tell you that the girl persists in her exemplary
vocation and if they want to see angry and fuming with rage, that
speak of the century and its temptations.

Agnes burst into a laugh so natural, so graceful, so fresh, so joyous,
that even the walls of the convent seemed to rejoice as mood music.

-
Laughter as mundane What are those? - Mother said Transverberation -.

It is the first time you laugh like that in this house. What happens to all this joy? ...
Inside girl inside; give part of this unprecedented naturalness to the Mother Abbess.

Remained closed the parlor and out into the street. Sentíame with new life, with hundredfold
forces in my mind and my body; sentíame capable of anything, self-denial, the struggle until
heroism, because the presence and words of Agnes had opened unknown
horizons vast spaces in front of me.

XV

Before arriving at the inn, loud noise of drums and trumpets announced the departure of my army.
I ran to get my arms and my horse, and they noticed my absence, I was in row Master Count
the Rumble, Marijuán and the rest of the game. It was already dark when we, and all the people
that took part in spontaneous celebration of our farewell thousands the lights came up as we go
on balconies and doors greet any woman stopped from the gate, and no lover, and all the children
fathered by this prolific generation left front of the drums, accompanying us to beyond the
New Gate.

We walked all night, and the next day, leaving the Carpio, we stray from the path Andalusia real,
taking the right direction Bujalance. During the first day Santorcaz find that Bailen had left
to join his gang, and all We were pleased to see him.

- Here I bring several small gifts that sends you his lady mother - said my master, giving some
packages -. The lady was upsetting because he had no news from you, and instructed me look
after him well. Did Mr. Conde visits Ms Mary ordered?

- Occasionally - "my love -. And you, why not come before?

- What the devil! With these things nor do we post or who carry a letter. However, I I received
the expected, and here I am at last looking like the others, who stumble the French.

Since then Santorcaz was the main character of the gang after the master site who knew how to conquer
with ease subduing of their conversation. Put it all suesmero in pleasing D. Diego, easy thing
to achieve, and I always set beside it, caught quickly the spirit of good guy, and telling
her extraordinary feats and facts, and suggesting to his fertile imagination, ideas and concepts
to rock a young spark, but far behind in their intellectual development.

And all these, gentlemen, not a word I have said that army, or its foreign composition, but harken
now, that far from being late, this is the propitious moment to do so, as the proverb that
says: "Everything in its time, and turnips in Advent."

The army base was in Andalusia troops in the field of San Roque, commanded by Brown, and brought
in after Don Teodoro Reding of Granada. It consisted of the elite of our infantry line, with
some very good horses and artillery, not to exceed the number of 13-14000 people. Agregáronse
some provincial regiments and countrymen who spontaneously or by order of the Boards are engaged
in major cities of Andalusia. Difficult to know the exact figure rose to forces armed civilians,
but surely there were many, because the call had called all the boys of sixteen to forty-five,
single, married and widowed childless five feet one inch, measured barefoot. In addition to the
well useless, as lame, maimed, blind, etc.., were exempted those who had exercised his pregnant wife
or charges public and the Epistle to the ordained, but there was no discrimination because of
crop or farm work. The only rejection of the rows, without having those repairs, were blacks,
mulattos, butchers, executioners and criers. With countrymen, therefore, created five Sevilla battalions
and two cavalry regiments, commanded the battalion Cádiz carrying handles your name, and the
cities and villages of Utrera, Jerez, Osuna, Carmona, Jaén, Montoro and Goat sent infantry
and cavalry corps of irregular number.

This increased the army, but had yet to grow a little one, which was
started dwarf giant be terrible, if not for his size, his strength.

The Spanish soldiers that the Government Madrid incorporated to Moncey divisions, Lefebvre
Vedel or were fleeing their treacherous rows whenever they had occasion for it, so that to
verify those armies to march through places hilly or broken, they saw that the Spanish I escaped
through his fingers, as they say. The defectors came to swell the Blake army troops, the Cuesta
or that of Brown, and arrived in Cordoba and Carmona Many who escaped the ranks of Moncey, and
almost everyone who made the campaign Portugal with Junot.

Those officers and soldiers, literally breaking the discipline that France held the invasion
to come to the call of moral discipline of his country oppressed, made the journey in disguise,
pierced walk the mountains and the fiery plains, until a core of Spanish power. It was pitiful
to see them get torn, barefoot and hungry, but found his joy at last invaded earth made them
forget all penalties. With these defectors, who included bodyguards, Walloons, engineers and artillery,
our military has increased somewhat.

But even grew some more. The Board of Seville was pardoned on 15 May to all smugglers and that
they were not punished for the crimes of murder, treachery or treason human or divine, and
this brought a game, if not the best army in the world by customs,
however was not afraid to fight, and strongly disciplined army gave
excellent soldiers.

Ibros, a place famous in the annals of smuggling; Jandulilla, Campillo de Arenas, and other locations,
later delivered to the saber of the Civil Guard and the police, sent respectable squads, with
the particularity that come armed to the teeth, and being all gentlemen of very good temper,
they knew where the mouth of the powerhouse cast, auxiliaries are reputed as very effective
army. Spanish regulated bodies with Some Swiss and Walloon regiments of the line, who were
the flower of Spanish troops, regiments provincial, ignoring the war, but they were about to learn,
honest countrymen mostly well versed in the art of hunting, and generally threw admirably and,
finally, smugglers, rogues, vagabonds of the mountains of Cordoba
Chulilla, lazy converted into warriors in the heat of patriotic fire
that inflamed the country lost and marauders, who put serving the
national cause their evil arts, the good and bad, noble and ignoble
that the country had, since its ablest general to the last PELAIRES
Colt of Cordova, a countryman and colleague of Manto Sancho: these
were the elements Andalusian army.

Formed of what existed, came to compose the great heap of flowers and slag the nation, nothing was
hidden, because fermentation took it all to the surface, and our revenge crater same pure spits fire
the reeking lava. Removed within the country, cast out what they had engendered in him the glorious
and the degenerate centuries, and reaching with one arm to defend themselves, worked with
the right and left wielding the sword with him and with this historic knife.

As for uniforms and costumes, Tell them to all known forms.

It is wonderful how was equipped this army of peasants in sixteen
days.

The current Administration, with all resources, is a portal tailor compared with that manufacturer
that set in motion million needles in two weeks. In a state that history has not thought worthy
of pages, but it still exists, although forgotten, shows the number of pieces of clothing they
did free the nuns and ladies of Seville. It reads:

"For the Communities and ladies of distinction have been made 3,335 shirts, 1,768 pants 167 jackets
soldier 1,001 shirts, 312 shorts and 700 jackets Sergeant boots 374 Cloth, 149 chivalry bags,
16 bags and 1,684 badges. "Ladies Alcolea those of Carmona, Lora
del Rio and other towns in the account with similar figures.

This
diversity of hands in the making of clothing indicates that the uniform
voice, as regards volunteers, was an empty word. Beside the white
coats with black lapel, crimson or blue, wearing most of the regiments
of the line, the blue side of the Levites with shoulder strap and
Swiss Walloons wearing, we saw the coats of brown cloth with which
colecticia people covered. Among the higher the artillery helmets
and caps of grenadiers, drew attention to our Portuguese white hats
and caps barracks and touched countless classes covering their shooters
and volunteers chollas of peoples. As I said before, this army was
laugh.

What about the money for war? Laughable to see how pumpkins
today gives a finance minister to arbitrate, bound for another war,
a few million if anyone wants to give mortgage to the last rag of
the nation. Learn, selfish generations. Read Lists of donations by
unions, by traders, by the nobles and even beggars. That itself was
raining money, and reunite in heaps, without even a fleece is leaking
Realito between holes for administrative basket! In the list of donations
is a departure moving that reads: "Mrs. Countess Montelirio widow
has given his toalet of silver, expressing the feeling that your media
does not reach as much as his will. "

Will there today who give their
toalet? ...

XVI

Our march by Cañete de las Torres towards the Salt
River was a real triumphal, rather, it seemed hardly leaving, because
the townspeople, including women, elderly and little boys, we were
to either side of the road, jamming and dancing parties at every stop.
When the army halted, apparently eclipsábanse all evil of the country,
because the troops recovering humor, became the camp at the fair.
I do not know where it came out many guitars, I could not understand
what those facts were bodies, so tireless in dancing as exercise,
or what were extremely hard metal gorges, to be as constant screaming
and singing