 The violent death of Florence d'Arda,
either by suicide or by murder, was inexplicable without dissent, without discord, without a drama:
the hypothesis of agreement between the two couples was inadmissible in the presence of bloodied
corpse.

Few taxes were so intimate struggle sustained by the Countess, as the same Ferpierre. Whenever you
imagine the state of consciousness of the unfortunate in the wake of the disaster, recognized the
possibility of suicide and even said I should have committed suicide. But also candle plant
the accusation, suspicion, public opinion, the attitude of the defendants, a kind of secret
instinct and his own conscience prevented him confirmed as judge definitely in that opinion.
His long experience investigating judge told him that likelihood of a hypothesis to a dark
fact, does not exclude another possibility, love their profession was excited with the idea that
the case at hand was very intricate and difficult. And I really did
not remember having met in the presence of a higher difficulty.

Outside the intimate drama that had developed in the soul of the Countess what else struggle
feelings of the defendants, could explain the catastrophe? Was forced to admit again that, by loving
the Natzichet, or rather, to enter into relations with her extend the list of his triumphs
gallant Prince had forgotten all about the Countess, or see it when close to falling into
the arms of another, had been waking her love for her. The secure possession of property which
causes an early look tired with little appreciation, and what does not happen often that to
return unto us expensive, just the threat to lose? It is often enough that someone appreciates
what we are dealing with contempt, so that, suddenly changing his mind, recognize its value. Was necessary,
to support the theory of the murder of Florence d'Arda, that the Prince had been made that change,
then only could be explained that he had died, knowing that belonged
of heart candle plant, or the nihilist would have died knowing that
Zakunine love again.

But if the resurrection of the Prince's love was essential to explain the crime, murderer, given
that resurrection could not be him. His jealousy would not have been indeed very founded, given
that the Countess had been faithful to the last moment, and loyalty to his word he had ducked
candle plant. Could it be assumed that the only certainty have lost the heart of his beloved
and the conviction that he could not recover, have prompted the crime? Maybe it was not quite
incredible, given the violence of nature, but to admit, it still required that he and the
deceased had mediated explanations, provocations, threats. If he had begged him to follow Amanda,
who did not leave, and if she had said no wanted to be yours explained the murder, but was it
credible that the Countess, who had remained so faithful and submissive despite his ill treatment,
had revolted to him penitent and guilty? Taking into account the character of the deceased,
had to believe, however, that the resurrection Love of the Prince and his insistent pleas had
increased his embarrassment, his extreme anguish, reinforced his scruples, increased pain and
difficulties including stirring the unhappy.

Ferpierre and came first, the confirmation of the arguments that had been done and, but, on
the other, he was induced to consider and to a much worse condition the Natzichet. Seeing
Zakunine was not entirely his own, that love, or compassion, or out of respect, or interest,
still belonged to the Countess, the Russian could have hated it last. It was not impossible that
if there was an explanation between the two women, caused no doubt by the nihilist, whose presence
in the town Cyclamens not explained very well: although unable to wish evil to anyone, the
Italian had probably hurt the young rebelling to their threats, and may not tolerate that, after
she departed from the Prince take it out of your own home: the result of that explanation could
have been bloody. But how the Prince, to be found, if not present at the scene, at least near,
had not come to prevent crime?

And how the nihilist, who never came into the room Countess, was unable to find the weapon that had saved
it?

These difficulties are not much disturbed by the magistrate. Zakunine probably had not been brought
because I could not believe that the conversation ended in tragedy, and as the weapon, perhaps
that day was not saved, or the young man knew where he could find.

Another difficulty was entirely moral and more serious, with which it had stopped Ferpierre many
times: if the nihilistic had knowledge of the love of Florence d'Arda
Candle plant how could wish her ill? Rivalry explained in the event
that the deceased had tried to stop Prince at his side that had not
existed.

But it was to believe that Natzichet Countess did not know that he loved candle plant: the
passion that the death was drowning, that the young had held, it could have been ignored by
not disclosing any external fact, an act.

Therefore, although these assumptions were reinforced by evidence and still missing clarify
many things, the judge was stating in the opinion that denied the suicide, most likely suspect
should weigh against women. The Prince and his repentance Turning next to the old friend, as
determined by the need for money or a sense more dignified, prevented Zakunine wished to believe
that the death of a person who was face again, while explaining the hatred if not jealous of
the student. If the revolutionary seemed more capable of killing, meanwhile was likely that her position
match, the fever of propaganda and its serious responsibilities, would have prevented him committing
a crime that put him in the hands of justice. In contrast, the Natzichet, less seriously compromised,
the awareness of responsibilities was no or very small, the political duty in it, women had to oppose
the passion a minor obstacle, and if still hung over her conviction for crimes, police reports
considered capable of consuming. This capacity for crime, violence of his feelings, was not written
course in his countenance, in his eyes? Had not his whole person, in every word, some hard,
fierce, continued provocation, a silent threat, a relentless rebellion? Its very attitude
to the body and during his imprisonment predisposed against him Ferpierre. First had denied that
was the darling of Zakunine, then he had confessed, and these and other contradictions, and
the initiative taken in the last interrogation to answer instead
of the Prince, revealed, despite his false indifference, their secret
anxiety saved.

Ferpierre intended to do about this new research.

If the girl was How guilty Prince, seeing that the prosecution was upon him, revealing not
saving the truth?

It was evident that he hoped to save her, using all the arguments for suicide, wanted to save her love,
compassion, or rather the feeling of fellowship that the community should create and nurture
ideas. If the Prince had been the murderer, Would not have encouraged the nihilistic the same
feeling? Was to believe. But what would have happened if innocent, either it was, had lost
all hope of salvation the culprit?

If both defendants had been irreversibly lost, was not true that would have ended up feeling guilty
weakened his heroism to save the guilty, or that the culprit could not resign himself to the idea
to drag the innocent?

Guided by this kind of reasoning, thought Ferpierre to tempt a test: on call the two defendants,
and each one would say that all the suspicions hanging over the other.

The attitude of both could help the discovery of truth.

And once again resumed the interrogation of the Natzichet.

This continued to occupy your time in reading and writing, his contemptuous indifference had
not given to new and long days in prison.

- I come to meet - he told the magistrate in the tone of greeting - a very pleasant duty. Justice
is convinced of the innocence of you. Are you at liberty.

If you have believed that we enjoy to accuse, to suspect at all costs, I would like to leave
Here you are persuaded of his deception. Our duty is to uncover the truth, and although this purpose
is the worthiest of all, we also suffer when by appearances fallacious
keep an innocent man in prison and enjoy when we can help you get
rid of.

I repeat to you, then, that justice does not take into account later to ask. Clearly that the
time has passed you in here may not be of pleasure, but I guess there will be ceased to be
fruitful for their social studies.

Without uttering a word, without a move to show its pleasure, unmoved,
unmoving the nihilistic fixed his eyes on the judge.

It seemed that he had not heard the brief sermon and Ferpierre For little thought to tell :--«¿
When will you finish ?...»

- No doubt - he continued the magistrate,
- would have been better for you to consider freely our prison system,
but you agree that if we had to stop these days, the blame was partly
his.

The sentiment that has guided you is certainly much respected and
honored, but if not accuse his lover has left you in the doubt, what
are we responsible for his detention has been extended?

The Natzichet continued staring at him. Upon hearing this last question was closed for a moment
eyes, and said:

- What do you mean?

- Do not you understand?

- No.

- And yet, it would be difficult ... Or are you still waiting to go free with you? Your intention
was and would be very laudable, if not offend the truth that we we are so compelled to find out how
you recognize ...

- What do you say ?...-- questioned the girl with a wave of indifference.

-
I say nothing - Ferpierre replied, shrugging his shoulders and looking
down at papers who were at the table .-- The loving you has confessed
himself the murderer!

By avoiding the gaze of the young, the judge was due to two different impulses. It was painful
for righteousness use lies to uncover the truth. Had been used rarely that means: only in desperate
cases like the one at hand, he had, and always winning an innate revulsion. And while a secret
feeling shame, made him look away, instinct and habit of research
she was advised insist on their attitude to the accused, seeing no
longer observed, neglect contain real impression that this revelation
caused him.

Apparently looking for something in the papers, he continued:

- Here is your declaration, duly signed. Do you expect you'll still save?

Saying it looked at.

The Russian had another face. As if he had torn the mask of contempt and arrogance hardness, her
pale cheeks, her parted lips and wild eyes expressing the pain, fear, remorse, a feeling that
Ferpierre could not yet be ascertained, but which undoubtedly was very painful.

- Do you feel you ... You must love him a lot!

The spectacle of the sudden disturbance distracted at the beginning of pregnancy Judge was to
enter a path that was not right. But seeing that it was required after to explore it to the end,
feeling the anguish of the young, was growing his disgust. Did not was inflicting on this woman,
love of truth, mental torture? Had big difference between the horrible instruments of ancient inquisition
and the lie with which he explored the soul of the accused?

- I understand you pain, but the supposed prepared to endure. You have done everything possible
to divert our suspicions, and can not feel tormented by remorse for having Prince injured. But the
truth is hidden in the long run comes to light. And this is the time to warn you that it could
have been a little more clever. How could you never expect me to believe in this fable of
the last explanation of the three? What was not credible that the Prince, who had returned to the
side of the Countess, as you wanted me understand, to separate it definitely took so long to
make that statement? If you took so long was because he had changed his purpose, because when I
was about to leave, also noted that she thought of him, and then his pride hurt him away from
his first intention. Then he said that women should not be different, wanted to be yours again
as before, and was contrite, pleading. You hid that change, so it was natural; but how do you
suspected not to see his misrepresentations? You could not help noticing that took too long to accomplish
what he promised, and if he said that compassion prevented him from giving a death blow to that woman,
you should warn her lover's heart Prince around the side of the Countess,
was dangerous, that passion, when it looks dead and already buried,
suddenly emerges, more graceful than before.

When you knew that her lover seeing her, and stayed with her, not once but many times, do you not
suspect that memories of the past, the seduction of this woman, almost new to him after a long
neglect, had to overcome one more time ... yes, you had this intuition, their painful silence
me says now, but it's quiet you by the love she has, because he understands that if justice I
knew that Zakunine still loved the Countess, who was jealous, the truth would have looked early
and high gloss. But this precaution could not have the result you wanted. When I asked why her lover
of his presence next to the deceased, yourself suggested that a derogation or compassion: he had
not managed to find a pretext for concealing or the real reason was the love and jealousy!
What did you think I would not know his address and the embarrassment of his friend, and finally
come to discover its cause?

In the heat of research, realizing that he was very close to the truth, Ferpierre forgot his
remorse. The silence of the young, the growing despair in their eyes, the trembling of his
hands, stirring anxiety among its members, showing more and more to judge who had played the
note states, that he felt truly Zakunine prey again the love of the Countess, who had suffered the
nihilistic jealousy, there was a need find the reason of the mystery. The judge had guessed before
that, but other arguments and the lack of evidence he had been distracted
and lost later.

At that time accumulated all assumptions, he imagined that he lacked, so that their conclusive
statements would serve as a kind of moral reactive in the heart of the young, gap opening and showing
him inside.

- The love you have you must be very deep when you accepted this role,
hiding jealousy tortured her, feigning ignorance and indifference!

And how badly matched have you been! Not for a moment could you forge illusions: it is obvious
that you has seen the ensuing, who has foreseen what would happen,
because Zakunine, determined to play a woman at his rival with the
vehemence that gets in his passions, he had no hesitation to crime.

You came in search of fear that the disaster had already occurred,
and came too late to prevent it.

Is not it true?

The young man shuddered at the question: strongly pressed his temples with both hands as if the
storm in his brain triggered by the words of the judge, threatened to do so Pop: After breathed
heavily, so much so that the air whistled through her teeth clenched, and finally said, expressing
disgust with the painful and helpless disdain for those who feel mistreated and press:

- Have you finished? Do you still have fun in tormenting me? You enjoy a great pleasure, no
doubt. Enough, at last!

- How do you speak?

- How do I. I do not want, do you understand? their wicked devices
to drag into the abyss who is not guilty!

Do you love the truth above all things? Is it a sacred duty to you to discover the truth?
Are you the representative of society for justice? Well, you say that society - and the tone of his
voice rose almost to the cry, - tell you I have killed that woman! You give rein to his justice,
but I know you know, the contempt you keep in mind that I claimed responsibility for that act,
not to deserve punishment, but to get praise.

The impression that those words were in the mind of the judge, was enormous. Amazement and
pleasure for the early success of his artifice, the satisfaction of seeing his suspicions
confirmed; a new sense of curiosity caused by the defendant bragging pride, a feeling of compassion
that secretly and almost against his will so inclined to indulgence in the moment that the
confession should have been him boasting more severe, seized both
his spirit.

- Ah!

Confess you !...-- was all she could say in the first moment of confusion,
not to lie in the timing of the question, but then, controlling himself:
- "You too confesses? - repeated, keeping the device so well that
he had produced .-- A Who should I believe now?

"They compete both in generosity to that point? "Each is charged to save the other? Noble competition!

The
girl replied sharply:

- Are you not able to distinguish truth from
falsehood?

- Not always!

When others are working to hide it!

... Well, if you want me to believe As I said, I believe. But the harder it is to understand
the tone of pride with which you blamed herself.

I know you know the laws, "but then, in society ideal for whose advent
you work, be killed with impunity and even be a ring Glory have destroyed
a life, so for pleasure?

- Not for pleasure.

- What!

Is probably a must for all lovers jealous aside the order of half
jealousy?

- You do not know.

- I do not know, indeed!

Is it true, yes or no, that the Prince could not bring himself to resign the Countess because he
loved her again?

- True.

- And you were not jealous?

The young voice replied with ice, making the words sound stood out, one after other:

- My personal feelings do not matter: no feeling, no duty, no matter
when has come to understand the duty.

The lives of others, our own lives, honor, affects, all the vain things must yield to it. This
is my standard, and should be also yours.

But he forgot!

...

Ferpierre beginning to understand.

- Are you saying that it was not
for the love of you who had stopped contributing to success of the
cause, but by the Countess?

- Yes.

- Why was he then in Zurich,
together with you and not her?

- For I knew that was hideous, but
I wanted to talk about it with someone.

- And speaking of it with
you?

- Before you said I had not said a word about it!

But if I talked to the other "you did not love you?

- I have never loved.

Yet the impassive coldness of the statue's face, had in the last words
the girl who made a painful echo Ferpierre think: 'Do not lie!

"

- And you loved him, would you still love?

- What does it matter to you that? - Said the nihilistic, returning to speak with a hardness Ferpierre
seemed to mock. Does it matter to you I do not care myself? If I I would like to find an attenuation
for the act that I committed, if he wanted to apologize to you, before society, say that she loved
him, that she killed her out of jealousy.

Your society excuse, glorify this weakness, this selfishness.

The lover himself to avoid pain, to secure possession of the pleasure kills his rival, is forgiven,
it is to judge beautiful large, admirable that love blind loyalty. Instead, it condemns the
love that guides us, our conscious sacrifice, the work of salvation that we do.

- Strange work, for now, you run bloodshed!

- Do you believe that one, ten, hundred lives are at stake important destination of all? You
who are afraid of blood, shed in torrents in the wars, so great is the horror of blood, that
the paramount concern of the rulers is to arm the peoples. Here in this land of freedom, is not
the exercise of force, with a purpose bloody, the most honorable of all? And do not you answer
me that the very idea that such acts governing ambition is to defend yourself against domain,
because they all say that! Who confesses bad practice? The well is on the lips of all of the attackers
and the attacked. Foolish ambitions, low interest rates and narrow, lead peoples to war. And
does in war there is a rule, always obeyed, the sacrifice a soldier
on a patrol, advanced to the good of the other soldiers?

We will make another war, more just, the only just and holy war: the war for the redemption of
men from all iniquities and all the vile, against hunger, against
ignorance, against the abuse of power against the same war that you
practice.

When we encounter an obstacle, we destroy it: first, ten thousand lives, what matter?

The Russian had spoken with ill-contained violence, the rigidity of his attitude had disappeared
and his outstretched arm made the gesture of one who hurts and knocks.

When stopped, the judge who had heard astonished and almost intimidated,
said his time with cold and severe stress:

- We are not arguing about
the morality of the principles you profess.

Would not better tell me how was the Countess an obstacle for you? What could you fear it
seriously?

And seeing that it took to answer:

- Would you let me know that maybe
you thought to denounce, to reveal their conspiracy plans?

- I do
not mean to imply anything.

Alexis Petrovich was lost for the woman.

- How?

- For his love, his desire to return to possess had forgotten the duty. She understood no longer
loved him, she loved another, but he said he still had a way to have it them, are subtracted to
the other, she said she had not given out of love as apart from us, to redeem himself, and
he was redeemed, made her see that she was his redemption, which, abandoned by her, would fall
into error. The only way to keep it was this: say it and prove their repentance. Then, although
no longer loved him, only for not allowing our company again, Countess
resisted other.

I lay down on face many times his madness, the indignity committed by sacrificing a woman's
ideal throughout his life: he could not hear me, I was dazed. Going to get me to mourn in my presence
because had lost, because he had lost by his own fault, and he wanted me, I help him ...

The voice of the young expressed not only disdain, but a secret anxiety:
not only she felt pain for the loss of a colleague, but also deeper
and hidden, the torment of having been taken by the man she loved
confidante, had not even suspected his love.

- Do you?

- I saw that
it was useless.
