 

     Angelina.

PS - Watch out not to write! Here he might not go back to thinking about you. "

XXXVIII

Angelina's letter to my soul was saddened as the ray of sun that dissipates in valleys mists
and banks left by the storm. I was happy, happy, happy and proud to be loved. Something like a breath
of spring winds flooded my soul and my unconscious came to revive heart.

I did not pick me up without writing prior to Linilla. Lay all around me. Through the window
wide open, came the scents of the garden, the water flowed silently down the drain pylon, and from
time to time, the station agent florida, heralded a goldfinch his loving serenade.

At midnight I dropped the pen, and read and reread my letter, six sheets written by the four
veneers.

Discouragement prey inexplicable got the specifications in the envelope. No, did not say those page
what I felt my heart.

In vain I insisted to transmit to the paper prints mine that produced the letter, in vain I struggled
to express the emotion of my soul deeply moved, the sublime emotion Lord of my spirit that knotted
my tongue, licked my paralyzed eyes and my mind.

Discouraged, dog-tired, I lay in bed.

The incomparable joy of a moment happened to me a pitiful state, and tried to sleep.

Someone has said that sleep is an advance that makes us death. Sweet and refreshing after work, consoling
and beneficial when the pain in your chest jacking their jaws milano; rich in images and fantasies
when he is with us the hope, often aloof, disdainful cruel, if happiness
smiles when we ask you to complete our happiness, a bouquet his crown
of poppies.

The dream long in coming. As I became to think that soon I would have to be separated of the
house to go among strangers and strange win a piece of bread.

What would you do without me the poor elderly?

What would you do if I left? Have more money, it is true, but left alone, and abandoned, with
no friends to an old servant and worked ailing; a doctor as poor as them, and a schoolmaster
who was dying of sadness y. .. Hungry!

Angelina was necessary to go find a maid to come to the aid of my aunt and Mrs. Pepa Juana. But,
how to pay your services? My salary is not always paid on time, because of the bad memory
of Castro Perez and my shyness to claims, which won my aunt with flowers and their kids, and Andrew
gave us was all we had. We resolved to remove a dish on the table, and that that ours was not,
of course, table bankers or princes.

I was going to make a good living, as I did not know, but anyway, it would not be as scant as
I paid the legal expert. I would at the ranch house and food, the weather improved, was the
case and take advantage of good luck, but the thought of leaving my aunts, even if to meet
their needs more broadly, tormented me, filled me with anguish, and I kept thinking that terrify
the promised jobs would require me dealing with people who do not deem me who may not know
me, and which would I have to suffer scorn and abuse. When talking about the supposed happiness
of the rich, and commends the abundance of living, luxury spending, amenities enjoyed and being
around them, no one is right to point out the only thing the darlings of fortune da real superiority
over those who live daily work, arduous and poorly paid. No, not an enviable superiority in
social respects, and in public estimation, that although apparent and mind is powerful element
of happiness, because it makes everyone saved consideration and respect, or is in the quiet
of a life without desires, - that also has the rich, and great and terrible - but in the noble
integrity which gives them reject money for the outrages, not to ask anyone for favors or leniency
with shortage decorum itself. Poverty reduction of regular characters, depresses the mind, debases
the soul, the levels with the most abject, and only very lifted spirits,
spirits of sublime temple, the test unscathed.

When we usually encounter petty beings with souls degraded, for which self-respect is vain word,
if not reach the ears touches the heart, or dyed red cheeks, saying: "Soul of a slave!" And
without wanting to think of a life of misery that debased the character and spirit trap for
fools. Say what you will, that nobility is the only happiness of the rich. For her, only for her,
admiring the world. Everything else that they envy the crowd is like the crown of tinsel that surrounds
the front of the actor. Noble dignity, dignity enviable places except higher heart clothes!

Observe all those who lived a miserable childhood, in whose home is often missed bread, they
had no clothes to cover the emaciated body that begged ashamed public charity, and not as a beggar,
with quiet directness, but hiding the demand flattering phrase, which became, gradually, the
shy smile embarrassing to the appeal; suggestive of the request to
the shameful exploitation, and from there ... tolerance interested
and you will see, whether in wealth, but the mime and society's wealth
has As compensation for a time denied even have hidden in the heart
most vinegar and gall of misery.

Hopeless poverty gives character, and its breast hypocritical breed pride, modesty mocking,
malicious cunning, who have flexibilities Viper, the meanness intriguing poisonous slander and
envy all bloodless the greed and everything ugly.

In pursuit of that noble dignity are all souls uplifted, high thinking, cease heart: the student
who strives to conquer worthy place in society, the merchant spent at work the best years of
life, the tradesman who struggle for life independent. The desire to achieve it is the only apology
that is greed.

My father wanted me that coveted happiness could not achieve their
goals, but he inherited the instinct of pride pride with which I rejected
all the time, a boy, a waiter, and mature man unworthy humiliation,
reprimand unmotivated, the brutal outrage of those who was considered
superior to me.

I inherited my mother's placid sweetness for weakness, submission respectful to all acts of
justice, irresistible tendency to feel sorry for the pain of others, and a certain feminine
delicacy that has caused me a lot of bitterness.

Delivered to these meditations spent an hour.

Wine sleep, and sweet wine and flattering, as a loving friend who
comes to our call to give comfort, to revive the depressed heart as
a compassionate sister who comes to our bed and caresses our face,
-closed our eyes, inviting us to rest because he knows that we suffer
and we need rest.

XXXIX

The next day, after breakfast, I told my aunt what was happening.

-
And you go! - Cried my aunt Pepa .-- You go and leave us?

- Is necessary.

I realize this must be very painful for you .... I understand, I have already thought about
it, but what to do?

- Now that we are alone, when Angelina just left ... when after all
these years of freedom has returned to our side!

- Yes, Aunt, I will
go, and not by choice.

God knows how painful is this separation! ... But Do not worry you. It is necessary .... I am
bound a. ...

- To live with your aunt! - Said interrupting me.

-
I have to meet the needs of you.

- Do not you just what you want
in the house of Castro Perez?

Did you ask something you can not us?

- No, aunt, but I can not look calmly working life takes you. Andrés ago for us what he can, and
the poor may soon.

I am not ashamed to accept his favors; but that should not go on
indefinitely .... You know the house of Castro Pérez I earn little,
and it is not possible to earn more.

- Well, I think there is your
future ....

I could not but smile to hear my poor aunt.

- My future?

-
Yes.

- No, aunt, I would not spend my life writing allegations.

This work is killing me. Not because rude, but because it is insufficient.

I prefer to farm work and the hectic life of the fields giving health
and good humor.

The patient remained silent. Aunt Pepa tried to convince me that I should not leave. We discussed
at length the point, she, living, nerve, unleashing all the difficulties,
I pretending that he had a serenity.

Neither the old woman wanted to surrender and I managed to convince her.

- Come on - I cried - that solves my sponsor!

- Yes, my son - said the old woman - it's my turn! Pepa loves you and is made let us drive.
Think you, Pepa, which is not far from us, think that will come frequently, and believes that
now, with Castro Pérez, will do nothing. You go, Rodolfo, I go, and we'll be very happy. Say
no more. Get dressed, I see that as you judge, dress and go to the home of Fernandez. Discontent
will not get is a very fine person. Is not it true, Pepa?

- I will, aunt.

- Then you go to the house of Castro Pérez, and alerts you within
twenty days, or those are, as agreed, you have to separate you from
there, and you're done!

He added a little tremulous emotion:

- Look, I feel that we leave, but reason dictates that you let me go, that it does not prevent
you you're doing. I am the best day I'll go too, and I will not die when I choke the idea that
because we have lost well-being that we can not give you ....

The
old woman's voice was becoming weaker every day, and no emotion is
turned off until be imperceptible.

To soothe the sick and leave it alone gave him a hug and kissed her on the forehead.

- No, godmother, we should not grieve! I will come to see you every week. In addition, the estate
Santa Clara is the world's end .... Ya, you'll see his nephew, How cute and Gallardo is coming,
charro dress in a magnificent horse! You'll see, Aunt Pepa, how elegant and handsome I am with the
tight pants, the Jarano gallon, airy jacket and the pistol in his belt! And "taca, taca, taca"! There's
the ranch! Has arrived! And enter Juana saying: "Lady ... wine and the charro! "And you, Aunt
Pepilla, you'll run to meet me and embrace, or peek out the window you see me come and see
all the girls have to look at me with eyes wide, as saying: "What
reguapo!"

And I will come in, sounding the spurs, and you will become very happy. Y. .. Chas! There is a
stream of dollars!

The patient smiled, smiled Pepilla aunt and I walked around the room, affecting the brave admirable
bearing of a rider.

An hour later I went out of the house of Mr. Fernandez.

Presented the doctor card I obtained perfectly.

The farmer showed me into his office, an elegant piece trousseau.

In two of three stayed fixed.

- I hope you on the fifteenth. Come for you. Send a servant.

Do you have custom Riding?

- No, sir, I do like a schoolboy ....

The farmer smiled and said:

- Friend: we'll see!

... Riding is learned ....

Then he spoke of my family, my aunts, my godmother's disease, my grandfather,
who had tried not to know how much, and then fired me two words.

-
Well, - said - problem solved!

You forgive me ... We journey ... "Like you lunch?

And he rose and led me to the door.

In those moments came the lady.

- Dad!

Blushed when he saw me, and murmured shyly:

- You dispense ....

- What is it, Gabriel? - Asked the gentleman.

- What time are we leaving?

- After eating ... unless you want to go out later ....

I waved, and left. Linda creature!

Although I think I see with that blue dress that seemed A patch of
sky, slender, grace, elegant, simple, moist blonde hair, which tied
with a silk ribbon, fell to the back on a towel very wide.

I never seemed more beautiful!

XL

When I reached the office I met the legal expert.

Left to go to court.

- Friend: - I said very gestudo and mohino - I'm tired of waiting
.... What happened?

Why what comes to you at this hour?

Remind yourself that duty comes first.

Let your love affairs for the moments to strike.

I was hurt, and mumbled an apology, which did not calm the anger of
Don Juan, but on Otherwise, you impatient, because, interrupting my
excuses, he added scornfully:

- Well!

Well! Do not repeat this!

... I'm going to court.

Tell the girls you I do not wait .... Return between four and five.

Here in my office is a letter .... Copy you!

It was made the hat, and left.

A little, when I was beginning to write, I heard in the hall feminine
voices that distracted my attention.

Luisa and Teresa, (the others were not speaking) appeared in front
of the desk.

They came very pestles and attack.

- Dad! - The blonde shouted, poking his head .-- lively Dad! We're back!

Then they learned that Don Juan was out and would not return until
the afternoon, the two girls of brashly slipped into the office, and
sat on the bench of the customers.

Fanned furiously, and looked and smiled as willing to say something
they do not fit in the body.

- Did not steal the time? - Asked the
brunette.

- No, miss.

- Really? - Said the blonde.

- No.

- Well
then - burst Luisa, - leave the pen and a chat.

- As you like.

-
What you do not know where we come from?

- In the church store, come
buy perendengues and bows.

- No! - Cry out with one.

- I fail ....

-
Guess you !...-- said the brunette.

- Guess you !...-- repeated the
blonde.

- No success, ladies ....

- Do you hear, Luisa?

No hits! Well we know where you were half an hour ago ....

- Ah! It is hard to say.

I just came, and you would leave me home ..

- Do you hear, Tere?

De .. home!

- Then from there I left an hour ago.

- "So at home, eh? - The brunette
muttered .-- From home!

They looked quietly and smiled.

Luisa, to show off her beautiful hands, her hair was made, stating with forks fingertips. Teresa sat
in the seat letting me see your feet, carefully shoes, then slammed
the fan, pretended that he would set the rods, lowered eyes, and after
a pause, he repeated, looking at me straight in the eye:

- "So at
home, eh?

I laughed.

That "So" was the catch phrase of the Miss Castro Pérez, and Villaverde
when they spoke, everyone said "So Castro girls."

- What are you
laughing? - Asked the blonde upset.

- Sure.

You are very malicious ....

- So Home! - Again .-- say you did not
know who lived there in the "pa ... the ... price "of the marquise!

Why not warn you when moving house?

The storm was over.

- You are very malicious. It is true that I was in the house of Mr. Fernandez ... what?

- Go! Go! Confess you ...-- Luisa said, fanning herself.

- No wonder.

You know that business .... I went to collect a signature.

- You!
If we were there .... We pay a visit. Because we were ashamed to see
Gabriela. Just imagine that over a year ago he came here. Dad said
all the time: "Girls ... You already paid this visit? "We did not
want to go ... because ... truth ....

- Do not say, - interrupted
the dark - do not say that Rudolph is interested!

- Goodbye! And
why not? An owner is to say what they want ....

- Yes, but ... Not
everyone! Can not you see Rodolfo ....?

- Tell me, Teresa, you say!

-
No, Tere! - Pleaded Luisa.

- Well I have to say! ... Well, go, let
... Miss that we ... hits!

- Why?

- Friolera! - Luisa said .-- Have
not seen you so smug and so proud, that all despises, and that says
all we are a clown ... vilaverdinas, some ridiculous.

- Look here,
ladies: I think that girl is not proud, nor smug, I think who did
not despise anyone, and that, by contrast, is very nice to everyone,
and insurance is unable to say that you attribute ....

- You do have
to say! ... You defend it because ... Go