 The men looked at each other and after the fire.

Despite the appetizing banquet before them, thought it fell again into despondency Daniel the
drugstore, when the plaintive voice of the old, high incautiously
came until the meeting in a sufficiently clear to be heard.

- In
this tea on the right ... It is quite true ... Of course they are.

A crew of drunks and bums! ... and that Frederick Bullen is the worst. Do not have opinion
for coming here, having a sick home and without our provision of any kind? ... I know what I
said ... Bullen, I said, is that you are drunk or crazy to think such a thing? ... What about Conrad?
How could ocurrírsete turn my house into a field Agramante taking my sick child? Is that wanted
to come, I say. Here's what to expect from this rabble the Bar

Homeric laughter followed this unfortunate event.

At this point, whether it was heard laughing in the kitchen, or the angry old companion had
exhausted all other modes of expressing his contempt and indignation,
the fact was that a back door closed loudly.

All remained in suspense until the reappearance of old, happily ignoring the cause the latest outbreak
of laughter and smiling hypocritically.

- My wife had the idea to spend some time with Mrs. Mac Fadden - said
by way of explanation and casually, to take a seat among the guests.

And, strange to say, it took this incident to alleviate adverse pregnancy heading began to feel, and
their natural audacity recovered with the return of the host.

Do not try to tell jokes Christmas banquet.

Suffice it to say that the conversation was characterized by intellectual
excitement, the wary respect, the meticulous delicacy rhetorical precision
and the same logical and coherent discourse that distinguish these
manly meetings and in most civilized places where there is the finest
social intercourse.

No one glass broke because you have not, nor needlessly spilled liquor
by the ground or on the table, by the scarcity of that article.

It would almost midnight when the party was interrupted.

- You must keep quiet - said Fred, raising his hand.

It was the querulous voice of Johnny, from his bedroom immediately.

- Oh, Father!

The old man rose hurriedly introduced in the sickroom. Soon reappeared.

- Rheumatism makes him hard - he said - and he needs some friction.

Took from the table the jug of liquor and shook it.

I was completely emptied.

Bullen Federico hojadelata left his cup with a forced laugh. The others
followed suit.

The old man considered the most animated content and said:

- I think there's enough. Wait a moment, back soon.

And he went back into the little room, taking a flannel shirt and old brandy.

As the door was ajar, distinctly heard the following dialogue:

- Tell me, my son, where it hurts most?

- It hurts everything.

Ora here and down there now, but is stronger from here to here. Run, father Scrub hard.

And the silence seemed to indicate a lively friction. So Johnny said:

- Do you spend a good time out there, father?

- Yes, my son.

- Is it Christmas morning, right?

- Yes, my son. How do you feel now?

- Best, rub a little lower.

What is Christmas? Tell me why is this party?

- Oh, it's a day! ...

Here, apparently overcame the pain that childlike curiosity, since
there was a silent interval during which the old man continued rubbing.

Soon, Johnny continued:

- Mother says that everywhere but here, all things are given each
other for the day.

Says there is a man who called St. Nicholas, see?

But not a target, but a Chinese species, which come down the chimney the night before Christmas,
leaving things to children like myself who have been careful to leave
his boots there.

That ... that's what I wanted to do believe ... Come, father, where
are you rubbing?

You're just one kilometer from the site ... Tell me no invented this
for us tease you and me?

... Do not rub there ... Answers.

In the stillness of the night that seemed to hover over the house,
he clearly heard the buzz of the nearby pine trees as wind harps have
been tainted by the wind.

- Come on, do not be like the father, because
soon I'm gonna be good.

What are those men out there?

The old man opened the door and looked absently.

The men were sitting in good company, with a few pieces of silver on table and a thin chamois
bag in her hands.

- They are putting together ... a game.

And get by - Juanito answered and returned to their friction.

- I'd like to hand and make money - Juanito said reflectively, after a short silence.

For all comfort, the old man repeated what was obviously for him eternal
chorus is say that if Johnny would wait until which would give the
seam in the mine, would have much money, and would be very rich.

-
Yes - Juanito said - but can not find it.

Moreover, giving him or me to win, is almost same. At the end of the day, it is just luck. But it is
very strange as Christmas, is not right?

Why call it Christmas?

Be instinctive deference to the concerns of its guests, whether by
a vague sense of inconsistency, the response of the old one was so
low that it was wedged between the walls Room.

- Yes - said Johnny,
with interest and some declined .-- I have already talked about him
enough, father, no I do, not nearly, as much damage as before.

Now along with the blanket cover me and - muttering added under clothing
- sit beside me, until I fall asleep.

Do you hear?

And he composed to rest, but not before taking a hand off the blanket
and grab tightly his father by the sleeve in order to mock him not
in their legitimate demands.

The old man waited patiently for several minutes.

The unusual quiet of the house excited his curiosity and detached
by hand without rising, cautiously opened the door and peered into
the room.

With great surprise, he saw dark and empty.

But at that instant a log that was smoking in the home was broken,
and in light of its flare Federico saw Bullen sitting by the muffled
tailings.

- Hello!

Federico started, stood up and walked toward him, half staggering.

- Do the companions where they went? - Said the old man.

- Upon return
here.

Would have come to take a little walk.

I am waiting. What are you looking so intently, man? - Said with forced laughter - are you
going to believe I'm drunk?

Having been spared the old man could fancy, it's eyes were moist Federico and his face like a tomato.

Made
himself a little lazy, and returned to the fireplace. Yawned, desperezose, buttoned his coat,
and he laughed:

- The wine is not as abundant as it goes, man. Do not get up - he went on, when the old made
a motion to rid your sleeve Juanito hand .-- Do not fulfilled.

You where you stand there, I'll instantly. They're here.

Knocked softly at the door.

Bullen Federico Abriola, with a wave goodbye to the old and disappeared.

The old man would have continued were it not for the hand that stopped
him strongly inert yet, no be easy to discard it.

It was small, weak and skinny, but maybe for being small, weak and emaciated yielded to pressure
and further approaching the chair to the bed, leaned over her head,
surprising him sleep at this attitude.

The room wavered and vanished before his eyes, reappeared, vanished
again, darkened and let him sleep at all.

Meanwhile, Federico Bullen closed the door, and joined his comrades.

- Are you ready? - Conrad said.

- Ready! - Federico said, - what
time is it?

- The one - said, - can you?

Are almost fifty miles round trip.

- It seems to me - briefly Federico said .-- Is the horse here?

- Bill and Jaime have it already in the pine forest.

- Well, that saved a moment.

He turned and walked gingerly back into the house.

Guided by the dim light of the candle and cushioned running fire,
noted that the door the little room was open and went to her toes.

The old cast was snoring in his chair, legs outstretched, head back
and hat pulled down over his eyebrows.

Beside him, on a narrow wooden bed, lay wrapped closely as Juanito mummy in the blanket that covered
her all but a portion of the front and a little hand livid and stretched that struggled in
vain to enter.

Bullen Fred took a step, hesitated and looked over his shoulder the
empty room.

Most profound silence reigned.

With sudden resolution leaned over the sleeping boy with both hands spreading his great whiskers.

But
at the moment to do so, a mischievous air blast stalking him, turned in a whirlwind the chimney
down, reviving the live firing home and clarity, from which he fled
Federico and scared.

His companions were already waiting in the pines.

Two of them were fighting to hold in the darkness a strange warp,
which in Federico as he approached, was outlining her figure.

It was the mare.

The quadruped had not, in fact, pretty picture.

Nothing remarkable offering from its blunt snout to its rump raised,
and from his arched spine, concealed by the ragged and stiff Machill
Mexican Saddle up his thick, straight and bony legs, there was a single
line of grace and noble aspect that distinguishes your species.

With the white half-blind eyes, but evil, his lower lip hanging, and
his monstrous color, was unable to arouse the slightest aesthetic
sense.

- Well - said Conrad - careful with the shoes, boys, up!

Eye with no descuidarte foremost in grasping the mane, and looks to grab then the other bracket.
Arriba!

Hastily mounted the rider kicked solipeds battling, they parted with precipitation viewers and
flew in a circle shaking horseshoes, earth to tremble animal jumps. Finally, the spurs and departed
sounded Jovita. Federico, in darkness, shouted

- Good going!

- When you return do not take the low road, unless the time is pressing.

Do not stop the down the hill! At six we wait at the ford. Underway. Hop! Adelante!

And sparkled the stones, the gravel crunched loudly Frederick road and plunged into darkness.

* * * * * * *

Oh, Muse! sings, the cavalcade of Frederick Bullen!

Oh, Muses, come to my help to sing the chivalrous men, the sacred company, the deeds, the clay of
the louts scoundrels, the ride terrible and fearful dangers Flower Bar Samson! Ah, my muse! Scornful
you! ... Nothing like this animal and its ragged coceador rider,
and strength is follow me in simple prose.

It was two, barely reached Rattlesnake-Hill, and by the interval had
Jovita gala of all his vices, and brought out all his skills.

Three times he stumbled. Twice he raised his snout blunt straight with the reins, and resisting
the brake and the spur, ran madly through the fields and crops.

Twice they put hands, and fell back, and twice had to Federico agile use all their wits and good
fortune to regain his seat.

And a mile ahead, at the foot of a long hill, was Rattlesnake-Creek.

Federico knew there awaited capital test of your ability, if he wanted
to reach the end of their journey.

He clenched his teeth, fitted her knees on the sides of the mare
and changed their tactic of defense in a strong offensive.

Jovita excited and angry, began the descent of the hill.

The artificial Federico stop pretending to repression manifests, and lied to cries of fear.

Needless to add that Jovita then began spiraling career. Nor is it necessary to set here the time spent
on the decline, is inscribed in the annals of Bar Samson.

I'll just say that after a while, it seemed to Frederick that mud
from splashing -flooded banks of Rattlesnake Creek.

According to the plans of Frederick, the thrust had acquired was beyond
the margin and having it on purpose to a great leap, were released
in the middle of the rushing stream River.

A few moments of fighting, kicking and swimming, and Frederick breathed loudly, after winning
the opposite bank.

The road from Rattlesnake Creek to-Red-Mountain was pretty good.

Either because the en-Rattlesnake Creek had tempered his evil burning,
or because the art led Frederick would have demonstrated the superior
wickedness of her rider, Jovita and not waste their energy surplus
in vain whims, and seemed to have become a serious solemnity.

Once only sews to the hind legs, but it was by force of habit, another Once trembled, but it was
a damn old to be brought on the road with a monumental basket on her head.

Pits, mounds of gravel, chunks of fresh emerging planted grass, flew
under its infused legs seemed strange force.

He began to wheeze, once or twice she coughed slightly, but decreased
their strength or speed of his career.

In the three had spent the Red-Mountain and began the descent towards the plain.

Ten minutes later, the driver of the rapid diligence Pioneer was shot
and left behind by a "man on a pinto horse" in the words of the driver.

At

half past three Federico rose in his stirrups and cried out.

The torn clouds shone through the stars and in front of him, beyond
the plain stood two needles, two flagpoles and a silhouette of black
objects staggered.

Fred shook his spurs and swung his Riata.

Jovita rushed, and a moment later entered the race in Tuttleville,
and stopped at the Place de la Fonda Nations.

What happened that night Tuttleville is not precisely part of the
story.

But not be too verbose I can say that when Jovita had passed into
the possession of sleepy groom, who soon shook him sleep with a pair
of kicks, Federico left with the innkeeper for a ride by the people
who slept silently.

The lights of a few taverns and gambling houses were still bright,
but avoid the temptation stopped before several closed shops, and
therefore repeatedly calling after screaming, managed to rise from
their beds and forcing owners to unlock the doors of their stores
and to expose their wares to the importunate visitors.

At some points we could not get rid of some cursing, but most of the
times interest or necessity were complacent, and ending the interview
more cordial.

It was three when he finished the route, and a small waterproof rubber
bag, tied with straps to his back, Frederick returned to the inn.

But there he lurked Beauty. Beauty, charm and rich opulent dress, persuasive in speaking and
Spanish in accent.

In vain she repeated the invitation of the Excelsior.

The son of the mountains refused to Beauty boldly, not without a slight
mitigation smile and his last gold coin.

Reassembled later, and made his way down the dismal road, and then the plain always grim. Soon
the black line of houses, water and the flagpole were lost in the
distance behind him, as if the earth had swallowed.

The weather had subsided. The air was sharp and cold, the silhouettes
of nearby landmarks and perceived, was five and a half when Fred reached
the Crossroads Church State on the road.

In order to avoid the steep
slope had taken a longer and more roundabout, in which viscous mud
Jovita sank up to his ears at every turn.

It was not very good preparation
for a serious climb of five miles, but he attacked Jovita his usual,
blind and impetuous rage, and half an hour later they reached the
wide plain Rattlesnake-Creek leads to: thirty minutes, and reached
the goal.

Federico slightly dropped the reins on the mare's neck,
excitola whistle, and hummed a song.

Jovita was alarmed suddenly,
and sprang to have dismantled an Arab.

Clinging to the reins, was
a man who had jumped from the ditch and at the same time stood before
him and the way a horse and a rider in the dark.

- Loosen your bag,
you scoundrel! - Said in a loud command, with the second ghost blasphemy.

Federico
felt the mare tremble beneath him as if he were to fall collapsed.

He
knew what this meant, and prepared.

- Go away, Simon, I know, damn
bandit or see me through ...

He left the sentence unfinished.

The
mare lifted legs in the air with a terrible jump, shaking the person's
bite he had caught and unloaded their deadly malevolence against the
obstacle holder.

Blasphemy tore the air, heard a pistol shot, horse
and highwayman rolled on the ground and the next moment Jovita was
a hundred yards of that dismal place.

But the rider's right arm,
shattered by a bullet, hung inert at his side. Without diminishing
speed changed the reins to his left hand.

Some moments later was
compelled to stop and tighten the girth, which badly insured stupidly
could achieve what it had achieved the danger or attack.

This operation
required several minutes of supreme anguish.

However, not feared
persecution. Looking at the sky, he saw the star of the east grew
pale, and that the distant summits, lost their ghostly whiteness,
and highlighted with dark ink a sky increasingly Argentina. The day
is coming.

Making a heroic effort and completely absorbed in one
idea, he forgot his pain wound, and mounting again ran-Rattlesnake
Creek.

But Jovita's breath was ragged and Frederick hesitated in
the chair and the sky now completely cleared.

- Adelante! Run, Jovita!
Oh, day, if I could stop you with one hand!

In the last few steps
and felt a ringing in his ears.

The rider's arm bled more and more
...

When crossing the road under the hill, I was dazzled and disappeared
and did not recognize the ground she walked on.

Had he taken the
wrong way or was that "Rattlesnake Creek?

Federico was on the right
path.

But the uproar stream some hours before had waded, was flooded,
and water invaded neighboring fields, so that stood then as fast and
compelling river between him and Rattlesnake-Hill.

For the first
time that night, Federico felt a heavy heart.

All ranged in their
eyes, and the river, the mountains and the early dawn revolved around
breakneck speed.

Then the closed, concentrating on himself to regain
consciousness was beginning to falter. 

In that brief interval, by
some fantastic mental process, the little room of Bar Samson and the
group of father and son slept, came into view.

Suddenly his eyes
flew open again, threw his coat, gun, boots and the same chair, strongly
tied behind his back the beautiful mess, with bare knees pressed sides
Jovita, and lying on the back of the animal's prodded into the current.

A
cry rose from the opposite bank, while the head of a man and a horse
were displayed for a few moments on the running battle to be washed
after out of the river, amidst uprooted trees and viscous mass of
mud.

* * * * * * *

The fire was extinguished at home. The candle
inside the room turns, and the door gave a loud knock.

The old man
awoke.

Hastily drew back the bolt, but with a cry recoiled and broken
choreante figure hesitated in the doorway.

- Federico!

- Silence!
Does this sound now?

- No, "but ... Federico?

- Shut up, you animal!
Bring me some brandy, alive.

Federico did not remember, apparently,
the scene that night, as the old flew in his search and returned with
... an empty bottle.

If his forces had been allowed, Federico had
blasphemed.

He hesitated, and grasping the door handle, called a
signal to the old while reassuring the bulk of the back.

- There
is something here in this mess for Juanito. Take it away. To me it's
impossible.

Full of confusion, the old mess and colocolo unleashed
against poor Federico was fainting.

- Open it, then!

Obeyed with
trembling fingers.

Contained only a few poor toys, fairly cheap and
crude, but shiny paint and tinsel. Needless to say, all traces are
printed on the odyssey that had followed.

Indeed, one of them was
broken, another irreparably damaged by water, and the latter a bloodstain
spreading his fateful boundary.

- Do not look like much, really -
"stammered Federico .-- But sadly the best we have done. Receive them,
old, and attach them in your shoes, and say ... tell ... say, you
know ... circles my head.

The old man took him in her arms.

- Tell
him - Federico said, smiling faintly, - tell him that St. Nicholas
has come.

And so, stained with mud and blood, almost naked, shocked,
rags, one arm hanging lifeless at his side, arrived at Bar San Nicolas
Sanson, and fell fainting on the threshold a miserable home.

The
sun stretched across the sky and its golden rays; elevose sweetly,
and with ineffable love pink ink painted the distant peaks