 Ignore if the
sentence has been fulfilled, but we're going to shoot from one moment to another, and everyone
in our world know that you are the real author of his misfortune.

It is frightening to think about the hatred accumulated by this fact and the next revenge.
The name Ferragut in Berlin was being given special attention, in all nations of the earth repeated
it at the time the civil battalions of men and women engaged in Germanic work for the victory.
The submarine commanders spent reports of his ship and himself.

He had dared to attack the greatest empire on earth, he, a man just
a simple merchant captain, depriving the kaiser of one of its most
valuable servers.

- What have you done, Ulysses?

... What have you done? - Said again.

And Ferragut finally recognize this voice a genuine interest in his person, a great fear the
dangers that he felt threatened.

- Here in your country, you will achieve his revenge. Flee! I do not know where you go to see
free of them, but believe me ... Run!

The sailor left his contemptuous indifference. The anger took a shine to your look hostile. Was
shocked to think that those aliens were chasing him at home: it was
as if attacked him in his own home.

National pride has increased his anger.

- Let them come! - He said -. I like to see them today.

And looked around, clenching his fists, as if they were to emerge from the walls these adversaries
countless unknown.

- I too begin to consider as an enemy - the woman continued -.

I do not say, because between us is a matter of course hide the thoughts, but I guess in the
cold around me ... The doctor knows that I love you as before, notwithstanding the anger that
she feels against you. The others talk about your 'treason', and I protest, because I can not tolerate
this lie ... Why traitor? ... You're not ours, you're a parent who craves revenge. Traitors
all of us: me, you complicate a fatal adventure; them I pushed you to take advantage of your
services.

Life in Naples resurfaced in his memory, and felt the need to explain their actions.

- You have not been able to understand me, unaware of the truth ...
When I found you on the road Paestum were to me a thing of the past,
a piece of my youth, the time only vaguely knew the doctor and I had
not yet committed in the service of "information"

... At first I entertained love your enthusiasm. Represented an interesting fun your attentions
to the Spanish, waiting outside the hotel to lay siege to your promises and oaths. I was bored
while waiting enforced in Naples. You, on your part, you looked also Forced to wait, and looking
at me a break nice ... One day I realized I true interests, as no man had interested me ... I guessed
that he would to love.

- Lies ... Lie! - Ferragut voice murmured to the woman down spiteful.

- Say what you want, but that was ... Love as the place and time. To meet in Another time,
we would have been just a few hours, following each his way, not no desire to love. Belong to
different worlds ... But we were detained in same country, possessed of the tedium of waiting,
and what should be ... was. I tell the whole truth: If you knew what it cost me rehuirte! ... In the
morning, first thing in the room hotel, my first move was to look through the curtains to convince
me to expect on the street. "There's my flirt, there's my boyfriend." Perhaps you had not slept
well thinking me. And I felt my soul remade, a soul than twenty years, enthusiastic and naive girl
... My first impulse was to go down to join you, Staying within the shores of the Gulf, as
two lovers of romance ... Then came reflection.

My past is collapsing in my memory as an old bell that emerges from a tower. I had forgotten the past,
and falling, I stunned with the sound field, vibrant memories. "Poor man ... What a world of
compromises and tangles am going to put him!

... No! No! "And you ran away with gimmicks naughty schoolgirl, leaving the hotel when you you
were away for a few moments, sometimes turning a corner the very moment you were going to turn
our eyes ... Just let me address, cool and ironic, when I could not get rid of your meeting, and then
the doctor's house, talking about you every moment, laughing with her romantic attentions
of these.

Ferragut heard grim, but with an increasingly concentrated attention. Sensed the explanation
many incomprehensible acts. A curtain was going to run in his past, seeing everything under a new
light.

- The doctor laughed, but then my jokes claimed the same thing: "You're falling in love That
man, that Don José're interested. Care, Carmen! "And the strange thing was that it seemed my crush
evil, being the enemy of every passion that does not work directly to our work ... Telling the truth:
I was in love. I recognized him the morning when I had the urge to go the Aquarium. Had many
days without seeing you, living outside the hotel, home of the doctor, for not run into my flirt.
And this morning I got very sad, with a fixed, 'Poor Captain! ... Let us give a little happiness.
"She was sick that day ... Sick of you! now I understand. We were at the Aquarium, and I was
the one you kissed, while I wanted the extermination of men ... Of all men, except you!

Paused, raising his eyes towards him to appreciate the effect of his words.

- Remember our lunch in the restaurant of the Vomero, remember how I begged you walked away, leaving
me to my destination.

Foresaw the future, guess who was going to tell you the fatal. How could join straight and honest
life like yours with my adventurous existence of mixed shameful in
so many commitments?

... But I loved you. I wanted to save my departure, and at the same time I was afraid of not
seeing you again. The night that irritates me with the fury of your desires, and I defended myself
stupidly, as if you were a stranger, concentrating on yourself hatred I inspire all men, that
night I cried to see me alone in my bed. I cried thinking that I'd lost forever, and at the
same time I felt satisfied, because then you get rid of my influence ... Then came Von Kramer.
We needed a boat and a man. The Dr. spoke, proud of their insight that you had to guess a usable
force. I gave the order to go for yours, again take possession of your will. My first impulse
was refusing, thinking about your future. But the sacrifice was sweet, the selfish drives our
Actions ... And I looked! The rest you know.

He paused, leaving thoughtfully, as if drink at this period of his memories, the most pleasure
of his existence.

- When you go in the schooner - continued moments later - I knew what that meant in my life.
What lack I did! ... The doctor was concerned about events in Italy. I just thought counting
the days, finding that passed more slowly than others. One .. two ... three. "My beloved ocean,
my love shark, is about to come ... Going to get! "And what became suddenly, when we thought
even further, was the hit of the war, roughly separating. Dr. cursing the Italians thinking in
Germany, I cursed them thinking of you, seeing obliged to follow
my friend, to make the flight in two hours, for fear of the wrath
of mob ... My only satisfaction was to learn that we came to Spain.

The doctor promised to do great things here ... I thought I was nowhere easier to return to find
...

He had joined a little. His hands touched the knees of Ferragut. I wanted to hug to them, and
he dared not do so for fear that repelled him, shading his tragic inertia allowing him to
listen.

- While in Bilbao I knew about the torpedoing of the Californian and the death of your son ...
No I will tell you this, I cried, I cried a lot, hiding from the doctor. Since then, the hatred.
Held the event, from indifferent about your name. You no longer existed for her: she could
not use you ... I cried for you, your son, who did not know, and also for me, thinking my guilt.
Since that day I'm another woman ... Then we came to Barcelona, ??and I spent months and months
waiting for this moment.

The old passion reflected in her eyes. A humble gesture of love beautified her face bruised by
the blow.

- We stayed in this house, which is a German electrician
friend of the doctor.

When she was traveling, leaving me free, my rides were provided to the port. Expect to see
your vessel.

My eyes were sympathetic to the sea, thinking she saw something in
all of them your person ... "One day will come", I said to myself.

You know that love is selfish. I came to forget the death of your son ... Besides, I'm not the real
culprit: the others are. I have been deceived just like you ... "He will come and be happy again
..."

Oh! If you could talk this room ... This couch on which I dreamed so many times ... Whenever a
managed flowers in that vase, I had the illusion that you were going
to get, whenever I embellished with a little toilet, I figured it
was for you ... Lived in your country, and it was natural that you
arrive.

Suddenly, the paradise on his head went up in smoke. We received the news I do not know how
the prison gives Von Kramer and that you had been the informer. The doctor scolded me, taking responsibility
for everything. For me I had known, and this was enough for me included in their indignation. All
our talk about your death, the most egregious deseándotela martyrdom.

Ferragut interrupted. He was frowning, as if they dominate a tenacious idea ... Such After not
listening.

- Where is the doctor? ...

The tone of your question was disturbing. He clenched his fists, looking around him as if he
expected the emergence of the impressive lady.

His gesture was equal to that had accompanied the aggression against Freya.

- Journey does not know where - said it -. Will be in Madrid, San
Sebastian or in Cadiz.

Shoot out with frequently, have friends everywhere ... If I have dared to call you is because I am
alone.

And recounted his life in this retreat. For now, his former protector, the left into inaction. He refrained
from ordering any work: she herself running around, avoiding intermediaries.

What happened to Von Kramer had made her wary and suspicious, and
when needed Auxiliary only admitted to his compatriots living in Barcelona.

A

fierce and determined band had gathered around her. They were refugees from of South American
republics, parasites or coastal cities Rovers the jungles of the interior. In front of them,
like the doctor's briefcases, included Karl, the clerk that Ferragut had seen in the big house in
the neighborhood of Chiaia.

This man, notwithstanding his mellow side, had in its history various
crimes.

Was a worthy group of adventurers foreman fired up by patriotic enthusiasm
that met every afternoon in a coffee port.

Freya was sure working in the procurement of submarines in the Mediterranean Spanish. Everyone
knew the Ferragut captain in Marseille by the event and spoke of
him with grim reluctance.

- For they knew your arrival - continued -.

I spy, awaiting a favorable moment. Who knows if you have followed so far? ... Odysseus escapes, your
life is in serious jeopardy!

The captain returned to raise the shoulders with an expression of contempt.

- Run away, I repeat! ... And if you can, if you inspire some compassion, if I am completely indifferent
... Take me with you!

Ferragut guessed that all this was to reach this final plea.

The unexpected demand gave him a sense of wonder and outrage. Run away with it, which had caused
so much damage? ... Wondering how to combine again to his own life, knowing as he knew? ...

It was so absurd proposition, which the captain smiled in a grim way.

-
I'm in danger just like you - continued desperate accent Freya -.

I do not know is the danger that threatens me or what part will come, but guess what, I feel
it on my head ... Anything I can serve them and do not inspire confidence and I know many things. I have
too many secrets to abandon me, leaving me in peace, have agreed to delete: I'm sure it. I
read it in the eyes of who was my friend and protector ... You can not leave me, Ulysses; You
will not want my death.

Ferragut was indignant at this request, finally breaking his contemptuous silence.

- Comedian! ... All lies! ... Inventions to hang out with me, asking me to intervene again in the
clutter of your life, mingling in your work of espionage!

...

The going now on the right track. His revenge had been placed between adversaries Germany. He regretted
his former blindness, and was pleased with his new situation. Did secret of his conduct served the
Allies.

- And so I want, so you have arranged this interview, you may agree with your friend Dr. You
want to hire a second time as an instrument of your spying stupid. "Captain Ferragut is a fool in love
- you have said -. You only have to make an appeal her knight ... "And you want to live with
me, maybe accompany me on trips, keep my existence, to reveal my secrets to your compatriots
and I appear again as a traitor.

Ah, bitch ...

The alleged betrayal aroused their anger over murder. He raised one arm and one foot, was to strike
and crush the kneeling woman. But his passive humility, their lack of resistance arrested him.

-
No, Ulises ... Hear me!

Made efforts to demonstrate his sincerity. Was afraid of his own: the saw to a new light and
inspired him with horror. His way of looking at things had changed dramatically. The tormented remorse
at the thought of what he had done. Was taking place in your consciousness the healthy transformation
of repentant women who were great sinners before.

How to wash your soul of the past crimes?

... Even enjoyed the consolation of faith patriotic bloody and ferocious
enraged the doctor and his men.

He had thought much. For her there was no longer German or English, or French, there were only
men: men with mothers, wives, daughters, and her woman's soul was
horrified at the thought in the fighting and bloodshed.

He hated war.

The first had experienced remorse to learn of the death of the son
of Ferragut.

- Take me with you - repeated -.

If you do not get me out of my world, I will not know how to get out of it ... I am poor. In recent years
I have held the doctor, I do not know the way to earn my life and
I am accustomed to living well.

Misery inspires me more fear than death. You keep me; you accept what you want me, I'll be
your servant.

In a vessel should be required care and good order of a woman ... The life I close the door: I'm alone.

The
captain smiled a cruel irony.

- I guess your smile. I know what you tell me ... I can sell you believe without doubt that
this has been my previous life. No. .. No! you're wrong, no good at that. We must have a predisposition
special, a talent for faking what you feel ... I have tried to sell
me, not I can not serve.

Bitter life of men when I am not interested, I am his adversary, hatred, and flee from me.

But the sailor stretched cruelly mocking smile.

- Lies - said again -. All lies!

Do not try ... Not convince me.

As if suddenly a vibrant new force, she stood up. His face was at the height Ferragut's eyes.
This saw his left temple with the torn skin, hit the spot stretched
around a red and swollen eye.

Contemplating his barbarous work, returned to haunt him remorse.

- Listen, Ulysses, you do not know my real existence. I have always lied, I have escaped to all your
inquiries at our happy time. I wanted to keep secret my previous life ... Forget it! Now I
must tell the truth, ultimate truth, as if he were to die. When The meet will be less cruel.

But
his listener wanted to hear. He protested in advance, with fierce incredulity:

- Lies! ... New lies! When Will your inventions?

- I am not German - she went without hearing him -. Neither my name
is Freya Talberg.

This is my nom de guerre, my name adventures. Talberg was the teacher whom he accompanied to the
Andes and neither was my husband ... My real name is Beatriz ... My mother was Italian, a Florentine,
my father was from Trieste.

This revelation did not interest Ferragut.

- A lie more! - He said -.

Another novel! ... Keep it up.
The woman was desperate. His hands were raised above his head, twisting
the fingers crossed. Fresh tears moistened his eyes.

- Ay! How will
I get you to believe me ...? What I can swear to you convince yourself
that tell you? ...

The captain gave him to understand with an air
unmoved the futility of these extremes. There was no oath I could
convince him. While telling the truth, not believe it.

She went on
in his story, not wanting to insist against the unyielding wall.

-
My father was born Italian but was Austrian by birth ... In addition,
blind enthusiasm inspired him Germanic Empires. Was among those who
abhor its origin and see all the virtues in the people of the North.

Inventor
of wonderful business, financial planner colossal companies had spent
its existence to plague the directors of large banking institutions
and making precursor in the ministries. Forever on the verge of striking
combinations to be provide tens of millions, luxurious living in poverty,
going from hotel to hotel, if the best, with his wife and only child.

-
You ignore that life, Ulysses, you come from a quiet family and money.
Yours have not known the existence of device in the "Palace", nor
the rush to settle the new account of the month, making the incorporation
to the previous months credit without limits.

She had seen a child
mourn his mother's apartment in the luxurious hotel, talking the father-like
glow, announcing next week a gain of one million. The wife, convinced
by the eloquence of a great man, had dried her tears, powdering his
face adorned with pearls and lace their problematical value. Then
down the great hall, full of perfumes, whispers and moans discrete
talks Violins, for tea with friends in the hotel, millionaire formidable
of the two hemispheres, which vaguely suspected the existence of a
disease called poverty, but were unable to conceive that could attack
people in their world. 

Meanwhile, the child played in the garden
of the "Palace" with other girls dressed and adorned as luxurious
and fragile wrists, each of which weighed several million.

- I have
been a childhood companion - continued Freya - of women who are famous
for their wealth New York, Paris, London ... I have familiarly with
big millionaire today are, their marriages, duchesses and princesses
of royal blood to. Many have passed by me without recognize, and I
have not said anything, knowing that the equality of children is nothing
more than a vague remember ...

This had come to be women. Several
of the parent business casual is allowed to continue existence of
poverty shiny and expensive