 Seemed to be on a different planet life unfolding four meters above
the crowd immigrant. The waiters were from group to group offering large trays full of sandwiches
and cups of broth, the second snack am. The women exhibited with affected modesty summer clothes
fresh from chests and changed the mutual compliments. Many passengers were dressed in white head
to toe, and also target the domestic ship, players and officials. There were moments when it
seemed the central castle invaded by a crew of Pierrots.

Mrs. Power went alone as usual in their morning walks, straight and not looking at anyone, tulle
hat elegant and striking. Fernando felt at her indecision and timidity, but she, pausing a
moment, came to his aid. Greeted him, asking with an ironic jingle how he had spent the night. Smiled
patronizingly, suggesting that spared Ojeda the big kid prank. Everything was forgotten ...
And he held out a hand before leaving, rate continued its march manly.

Time passed without the deck saw as crowded as on other mornings. Many chairs remained empty.
Serious ladies away their daughters to talk with each mystery voice and gestures of indignation,
as if to say something outrageous. There was no yet published any of those young people whose
friendship Maltrana spoke with enthusiasm. He also remained invisible, and so his escort Nelida
worshipers.

Dr. Ojeda Zurita passed by inhaling the smoke from his third cigarette morning.

- Few people - he said -. Last night, it seems, was long spree. There should be down a trail
of dead and wounded ... What girl so alive! Act Your Age! ...

And went on, smiling with a tolerance of veteran to think of the follies
of 'Boys'.

It was quiet for telling his valet Andalusian older children snoring in their cabins with
the fatigue of a clear last night but without damage visible.

The music continued to develop its morning as if sounded in a vacuum.

Passed the girls in groups, as well as in the streets of small towns around kiosk concert,
but they lacked in this continuous turn the meeting with young people, accompanied by a friend,
prying eyes and chased them sympathetic.

They were only on deck. Grave men were wanted by the butler, by dint of invitations and requests
getting them into the den. He was going to be there for acclamation the organizing committee of
the party to be held with the passage of the equator.

The concert ended, removing the stands musicians and instruments, and that's when Maltrana made its
appearance. Fernando saw him put his head out the door of a staircase sheepishly. After long hesitation,
finally moved to a shrink. He wore a suit white, glittering, majestic, over which seemed to stand
out in greater relief the ugly great for your face, which were some resemblance to the old Beethoven.

In
his cautious gait, twisted his face towards the sea side, looking
down as if afraid be seen.

With groups of noble women, their politeness was stronger than fear. "Hello ..." But the ladies
answered her greeting on his lips, his eyes following him and looking
serious then between them ... "This was also the culprits."

And the whole weight of his indignation mutely on Maltrana downloaded,
the first who dared to appear before them.

Ojeda, to shake his hand, noticed his tendency to turn his face toward
the sea, avoiding the left side, and sudden movement made him get
ahead.

- But what creature you have there?

...

Pointing, laughing, pale swelling of the temple that extended to one eye.

- It's nothing - stammered Isidro -; little thing ... I'll explain.

And to divert the conversation, looked at the feet to the chest in a gesture of pride.

- Huh? ... What about the outfit? I have other more than this ... Any guess what is Margarita's
work, my boss!

But Ojeda was not to be misled by such words, and continued laughing with his eyes disfiguring
bruise on his friend.

- When you get tired to laugh, tell - said Maltrana, something amostazado
-.

But do not you see that we are looking at these worthy ladies? ... Know them, and do not want
to lose your friendship.

Speak much ease of scandals in Europe, have decided not intended
to shy away from nothing, to not make them for a delayed, but everything
is clean outside, and when you strip costumes and additives in Paris,
are identical to our ladies from the provinces ... As I passed their
cabins sometimes look through the open door: the sink, miraculous
images as frames or portable indigenous or imported, in a bowling
bed, a rosary and more pictures ... I have fear that I blame myself,
I am the more unhappy.

I fear that in a good place to leave your children and your children's
friends, say it was I who organized last night ... And I have interest
in being right with the world, to keep my friendships.

Fernando could not contain his impatience. "But what was it last night Maltrana ?...» smiled as
if he remembered something and said, imitating his friend, with dramatic intonation:

- I'm miserable ... Feels miserable and self loathing.

But before Ferdinand could get upset about this memory, he hastened
to add:

- Last night was a lesson, a lesson of things and names:
a "spree", a "regrind" as my friends say several republics.

Last night I also discovered what is "cured" and I was cured so neatly, that here I have a hellish
thirst, and this motif with an eye ... But I do not regret, what cute boys! Give glory to have
friends as loving. About me called Galician other surnamed me Goth. Have you noticed what
a variety of nicknames love enjoy the Spanish in the Spanish-speaking Latin?

- Yes, and in other republics call us Spaniards, Paton, Saracens and
who knows what else.

Could a treatise written geographic-apodesco for clarity in the Spanish-American relations ... But
are family jokes that do not deserve attention: forward.

And Maltrana described the intimate party in the smoking room after the dance, when the serious ladies
their daughters had gone to the cabins and on deck there was only occasional Mr. delivered to
your usual walk before going to bed. Poker players had finished their games, wisely, seeing
the room invaded by a gang of madmen shouted speeches climbing on tables, lots of gym rehearsing with
chairs or tended in the foot by placing sofas in the treetops.

- The poor bartender, friend Ojeda, the blond mustache Kaiser, constantly
moving from one table to another, uncorking bottles of champagne,
filling glasses, collecting soil broken glass.

At first they were for groups: the American side, the other Yankees and the British, the Germans
beyond, trying to outdo each neighbor in generosity.

A table ordered two bottles, the other three, the other four, and all sang, inserting in artist
known or animal sounds fantastic ... We expected the arrival of the ladies: a few singers who
had promised not to know who, maybe one, exciting presence. Time passed and did not come. Some
friends talked seriously of going to the cabin for Nelida bring to the party and beat up his
brother, became gloomy proposition that the Belgian and German, as if each part is believed by the depositary
of the girl's honor.

Maltrana paused, as if afraid to say too much, but with the curiosity of his friend continued forward.

-
A Chilean strongman, a great friend of mine, stood up with resolve. "Hey, godito: let's see
if we bring some of these ladies. "Down in a corridor, we caught two Polish singers who were
peacefully from one place to his cabin, and my friend the rose nearly athlete on wings without understanding
the words. Great success! The two are black, thin, air of Roma, but will never in his life
so admired and gifts. And when the poor things I had drinks many glasses, looking at all the
superiority which provides the scarcity of paper, and torn between the lords amassed around
them, yelling and contracting in the seat as if under the table tickling a troop of rats Butler enters
the oversteward, looking intently, without seeing us, as if existiésemos, and his few words
were enough German to go out and heads bowed and fearful, just as some girls to reprimand the teacher
... Well say society Mujeri softens the harshness of the men.

As soon as we were alone ... battle.

A others berated for being too bold, making them responsible for the shock and two pigeons flapping
innocent. Suddenly, a punch ... and the smoking was the sale of Don Quixote. All felt the need to
hit without knowing who, two brothers were clubbed unknown, the bocks and glasses were on the
air. I was torn between fleeing or make peace, and in the middle of my hesitation I reached this
caress ... Believe me it hurts, but the show worth to be seen. Too bad you did not witness
it.

Ojeda bowed with ironic appreciation. "Thank you."

- The calm was restored through the intervention of some sailors who cleaned cover and the threat of
Butler introduced by the windows irrigation hoses ... Reborn with quiet good agreement, all
asking the same thing: more champagne. And it was time where the bar is closed, many provisions made,
keeping the bottles under the tables. A poignant tenderness seized assistance. Everyone is scratching
the bumps or managed scratches the suit, gazing lovingly neighbor. Argentine and Chilean crossed
Drinking with noisy as fraternity. No more Andes! They alone are sufficient to conquer the world! And
suddenly coalesced, looked the other fiercely.

- And what did the other? - Asked Ojeda.

- The friend Perez and other various republics demanded drink in hand into the confederation. Brothers,
all brothers! And they embraced with tears of tenderness, cheering land Hispanic. A Brazilian
hinted sweetly restrained and polite language: "You were senhores
...». licença dao And Brazil also entered in the grand alliance.

Viva Latin America! ... Someone noticed my humble person and adornments with one eye. "Ah, poor
Galleguitos nice! "and broke into cheers for the 'mother country', the old Spain, extolling sadly,
as if they spoke of a grandmother they had been dead for years.

Cups I came to the mouth by the dozen, as if to drown. Some clung to me, getting rained on
neck with tears of drunkenness. Have on the Peninsula do not know how many relatives Dukes and
Marquis, still keep old papers at home ancient nobility, and asked me my address in Buenos Aires
to send them, as if that might be interested ... Then, somehow, the Yankees also came to clash
their glasses. Hooray for America! America on the rest the world! ...

But this hurricane of fraternity had been too impetuous to stay within the limits a continent, and
from the seas spread over Europe.

In the end, British, German, French and Belgian entered the grand
alliance.

Universal confederation Viva!

- And a little English - continued Maltrana - you've seen with your plaid suit and his pipe,
shed tears at the top, repeating with a stubborn drunken incoherence: "I have entered the ship with
a pure heart and pure love out of it ...». The butler entered each time to say it was two, which
were the three, who were the four and had to close the smoking room, but nobody understood.
Some snoring lying on the sidewalk; others hesitantly away, returned with a pale, with the shirt
front stained. Suddenly the lights went out and we pushing, between shouts of protest. We talked
a bit to kill the butler, but he had disappeared.

- "And were you to sleep? - Asked Ojeda.

- No, sir, a festival of this kind does not end so soon. I saw not know how, in a corridor down
with two bottles in hand and a friend on each side. As he went, his legs as if they were soft
cotton, we got past all the shoes deposited at the entrance to the cabin ... We saw a few friends
who hit a door, bending to talk through the keyhole. Were the cabins of the French ladies ordered
and morality, who went to bed without witnessing the dancing and were sleeping with honored industrial
tranquility of a vacation. "A hundred marks," suggested one. "Five hundred fifty ', hinted at
another, angered by the silence. "Mil ... Two thousand ... "We let them dropping figures at the
gates dark and still. It was the same as if they were propositions a cemetery.

Isidro increasingly spoke slowly, as if you were to approach the greatest difficulty in story and
think through way through it.

- Then we met a German friend who was going to wake the doctor, his head dripping blood. He had
fallen from a ladder, pounding on the edges of the steps, which are bronze ... I also was attracted
to the door and started hitting my neighbor, mystery man, the character
of Hoffmann.

Needed to talk to him, inviting him to rise, bebiésemos for a drink
together and introduce you to my friends.

"Sal, do not be afraid: I know. You are Sherlock Holmes ... "A drunken craze late gripped me.
And then I started banging on the door neighbor, the mystery, struggling
to open.

I had gotten head that the friend had hidden Holmes in this cabin on a Russian princess who
travels incognito and going to marry a tribal chief of the Gran Chaco. Fantasies of alcohol, dear
Ojeda. And the two companions, less drunk than me, tried to dissuade me tearing away. "My friend,
do not leseras ..." "Mate, do not be stubborn." And finally able to get into my room and lie down,
and there have been until I woke up the music ... A bath at all haste, and dressed in the sailor
suit who kept loving forward from we embarked, I had little desire to show it off! ... Huh?
What do you think the outfit my landlady? ...

Ojeda looked at him with mock severity.

- Okay, Isidro. Nice way to go in search of a new life. You are being trained for the job.

-
Bah! It is the sea, the demoralizing influence of the sea. Since I heard you last night. Here we
other than on land, perhaps more spontaneous, more real. The isolation, cohabitation, deprive us
of our packaging and appears as beautiful beast is excited by nuisance,
eager to entertain with something.

And as navigation is extended, we will be more equal, more siblings, with the largest number
of "animalia"

... Man has always been the same at sea. Remember the old travel to India and Oceania. Teachers
the ships picked up the swords of the gentry, not to return until
the end of the trip.

All agreed during navigation challenge was not valid to jump ashore. Those trips were of months
and days of ours are, but represent the same, because we live and feel faster than our grandparents
... Do not pass you care: I will recover sanity when the last port, and all do the same. Maybe
that's why you say that the friendships made on a vessel rarely linger on earth. They are
people too intimacy, and then when they meet, greet away with the smile of a good memory; but avoids
the time, as if they had known in a dishonorable adventure.

A monstrous roar startled many ladies in their seats. It was the ship's whistle, giving the signal
noon.

- Lunchtime - Maltrana said cheerfully -. I have a hunger! ... Have you noticed how to whet the
appetite of misconduct?

In the anteroom agolpábanse travelers facing a long table covered with different dishes: bowls
of salad, ham and sausage pieces on their faces showing the black red mosaic truffles buried in
huge eels gelatin colored frankfurters light pink and drugstore perfume, floating in liquid salt
anchovies, boats showing between the teeth of brass just cut the green granulento caviar. The
hand of a cook going from one extreme to another table, armed with a fork, placing these appetizers
dishes lunch at the pleasure of the passengers.

Many onlookers stopped in front of a large clock controlled from the
bridge by a stream power, and changed their watches under throwback
who had just given the needles.

Every day the sun reaching its maximum height, had to slow down the time ten minutes. Other passengers
were arguing before a Tabloncillo in which the letter was navigation, surveying the ocean blue
stain pins with flags dotted Germanic. Each pin was placed at noon, and open space between two of them represented
a voyage, twenty-four hours of navigation. The flags came out of the North Sea and were lining
up along the coast of Europe to move forward in the Atlantic. The last just stuck there stood,
between the Canaries and Cape Verde.

Below, the clean sea, the immense sea, blue spot no bigger than the palm of your hand, but
crossed by black lines grades, accounting for days. Many were missing for everyone to reach its
destination! ... And dominated by concern of speed, criticized the motion of the ship, accusing the
company of greed at the expense of coal, disputing the number of
miles should go, making bets on the voyage the next day.

Upon entering the room, Maltrana was greeted by his fellow diners with malicious winks. The
old doctor Rubau, always in black, seemed to sympathize with a gesture of fatigue, the illusions
of life.

"Ah, youth, youth had left !...» not sleep peacefully much of the night. They had also called
his cabin, the wrong door to propose the keyhole monstrous, that did not quite understand the awkwardness
of interrupted sleep.

Munster hide his anger with a smile of resignation. Had resigned from the bridge in last night for
lack of companions, forcibly taking refuge in poker, and when after to lose a hundred marks
began to recover their money, the invasion of a troop expelled him crazy coffee as the other "serious
people."

- And you, sir Maltrana, not a child, and had to leave for the boys these feats inappropriate of age.

The
jeweler, silently angry with his white hair and wrinkles, age liked
others, thinking thereby rejuvenate, and therefore insisted on increasing
the years of Isidro ignoring their protests.

Entered the room slowly all the young men who had remained hidden
until then in their cabins.

Some advanced hastily, pretending to be preoccupied with some thought of importance. Others challenged
the curiosity, arrogantly flaunting bad erosions masked by the barber with rice powder. Americans
uncovering champagne lunch and shouting the same thing the night
before, insensible to fatigue and racking fluids.

In the tables of families, moms welcomed their children with eyes
of severity and tight-lipped, but those out of step saluting "their
old" with an indifferent air, as if they had seen moments earlier.

After lunch, Mrs. Fernando Power met on the steps of winter garden
and together they went to sit in the place usually occupied by her
compatriots with a partner.

Ojeda, after being presented to Lowe husbands, remained there as
if he were family.

"Already accounted for the Yankees - he thought
Maltrana -. Now the lady was a fan and it shows invited to write in
it ... Want verses, perhaps love poems. Let the friend Ojeda follow
your destiny. "

And when they hesitated between holding a free table
or go to the den in search of his friends merchants Spanish, was named
by Dr. Zurita, lounging in an armchair, he showed a role.

- Che,
Maltrana, come here. But have you seen how cute are these gringos?
...

He showed the list of the organizing committee of the party equatorial
up one hour before under the direction of the butler. A chance for
it to sell at a good price, kinds of awards, all items purchased shoddy
foresight in Hamburg.

- Look, hey, in honor presidents