 Yes, you will find
women in their thousands ... and a thousand times more beautiful, a thousand times more interesting
... So what? Have you been? I presume not, because I sent word to his house and is not there
and nobody knows his whereabouts. Te I swear that's a shame because ... Poor thing! If after
all not bad background. Among these unfortunate, there are excellent natural and even hints of
dignity. What is waiting appearances no one will win this.

"

As he did not answer anything, he seemed more attentive to the flowers of the carpet to said her
cousin, this was to give another address to his affection.

"I repeat that you are not good. You verdigris color ... To see the pulse? Burning ... Rest son, rest
is good for you. Not receive one, do not talk, do not write.

Lie on the couch and wrap the rug. I'll take care, for your health as well I can leave all
my obligations. I do drink, I'll be here all day, and if you get really bad, I'll stay all night
also. "

Augustine rejected the idea of ??illness.

Between one and another pause, slid Rosalia tips warnings and full
of sweetness and friendship ... "Do not take it so hard ... If you
had consulted time with me ... It is best to go to bed ... 're cold.

"

Later, much later, Augustine, playing without reservation as spontaneous and natural in his soul
existed, let's say these solemn words:

"That woman has me stuck in the heart, and I can not get started."

Upon hearing this, Rosalie took his abode in cashmere and body. It was hot. To comfort his
cousin threw strings of sentences, full of loving and thoughtful
expressions.

Amid of them came up Doña Marcelina Polo, the only person who could
provide damning news the fact, as having written testimony.

"Where do you live that lady?" - Told Knight with momentum -.

Right now I go there.

- It's too late. By God, do not get well.

You look like a character in a novel.

That lady and living with her to bed when the chickens. Tomorrow you can go but not early, because
since the dawn of the three to leave the church. It is best if you send a message to Philip
to set your time.

Entered D. Francisco, who came from their walk.

"What ?...».

- I tell him to get into bed and not want to listen to me.

- Bet
that's it slander? - Thiers said kindly.

Augustine begged them to stay for lunch, which they gladly accepted. Centeno was Costanilla
to tell Prudence (aka Calamity) to give food to the children, because parents would not return
home until late.

XXXVI

Wednesday! ... A worthy successor to the previous day, was all damp
and gloom, the sky crying, the land turned into dirty lake and thick.

You'd think that a large mass of gray chocolate had spilled on the streets. The umbrella flocks
were moving along the sidewalks, cediéndose step with difficulty and covering poor people.
Spouts jets playing drum beats on them, and it lunged at each other, they pecked, scratched. Hats could
be seen like springs, and faces like those of newts and nymphs Marble played the wettest of roles in public
sources.

Augustine looked at this behind the glass of the balcony of his room, and the sound of that
sadness time itself was sung without music this elegy:

"Why did not you stay in Brownsville, gross? Who bade thee meddle in civilization? And you see ...
to the first change since you've been cheated.

You all play as a boy or a savage. When distrust, you're wrong. When you think you are wrong
too. This world is not for you. Your world is the Rio Grande del Norte and the Sierra Madre;
your company the Indian mobs of adventurers brave and ferocious socialize your revolver, your
ideal the money. Who do you get into these wanderings?

Some of fas nefas and others all laugh at you and bamboozle you and exploit you. "

- Lord - Felipe said entering the room -. Doña Marcelina is in the church. Another lady who
lives with her, and whom I know, I am told that you can go to twelve.

D. Francisco soon appeared with a smiling face and wet Carriker. His wife was busy with dance
clothing, and could not come until after noon.

Spoke after so much disturbed the Indian, and Thiers brought out
as a mitigating and conciliatory he suggested his goodness.

It was all slander, and Augustine had better not metiese more inquiries.

Much was saddened that his cousin told him: "One of two things: either I go back to Brownsville,
or me montera put the world. "

They lunched together, and before lunch concluded, Bringas rose from the table impatient eagerness.
He had an idea, and hastened to perform it, confident in the safety
of success.

He left hurriedly to go where we know.

While Rosalie was not claimed that Amparito at home, he might be
back now.

Maybe the neighbors knew the whereabouts of the two sisters. Forward, noble heart, and fear
not.

Knight came later, and by the nuns, the Postigo, Hita Street, the
alley Dog, etc ... went to the streets of the Star.

It is easy to assume that was a humorous thousand demons and did not know to choose between
doubt and certainty of his misfortune.

That such Doña Marcelina, what breed of bird would be?

This is thought to climb the ladder of the house that, older than speak evil. Called, and a maid
told the lady had not come yet, but that does not take even five minutes. We went to the room, and when
a lady was waiting there presentósele very singular appearance, white, fine, clean and airy,
an elderly woman who looked like a kitten with two emeralds for eyes, and walked with feet of
wool without the steps you feel.

"Sir - you said that looking at him sweetly human relic - are you
by chance del Toboso?

".

- No, ma'am - he said - and I am not of Toboso of La Mancha.

- Ah, excuse me ...

And slipped away, looking askance at the light
spots of mud that the visitor had left on the mat.

Augustine noticed the room, which contained about seven comfortably and other furniture anticuadísimos,
but very well preserved, four crucifixes, two children and work of
Jesus four dozen films saints, with branches of evergreens, bows and
ribbons.

There soon came a semblance of mahogany carving behind a black veil.

"Are you Mr. Knight?".

- At your service ... I wanted ...

Doña Marcelina Augustine was passed immediately to a cabinet. After seeing the room seemed
that there was no more comfortable in the world. However, in that cabinet had three. A brazier
was very hot fire to the abandoned piece. The visitor and sat on Pole armchairs.

"Did you see what day?" - Said the lady, lifting her veil and publishing the bas-relief of
your face, Christian had not understood it.

- Yes, ma'am, very bad day ... Then I come to beg you to kindly give me news ...

- I know, I know - replied sternly Polo -. Can I ask you reports, background that unhappy? If
you will permit me, I will keep the greatest secrecy, it is not in
my early carry this story and deal with actions of others.

I, though I be wrong to say it, no I usually hurt even my worst enemies ... It is no praise, but
many who I have hated me full of benefits ...

- In the present case - Caballero said eagerly - you can make an exception for me, telling me
...

- High there - the austere lady interrupted.

I do not count anything, I know nothing, I have not seen nothing, absolutely nothing. What
someone comes and tells me that Amparo is a saint?

I quiet. What you come and tell me that he wants to marry her? I
quiet.

Shut up and shut up is my subject.

Today I got to God, and if he had enough strength to keep to my guns, this just give to me.

- But sir, for the love of God - Augustine said, to the fullest confession -. The truth is before
everything.

- Just some truths are not for those ... Do not ask me anything ...
my mouth is a snap ... Only I tell you, and this not because you might
be interested, but my own satisfaction, that my brother was saved,
my brother is already on its way to Marseille where released within
three days for the Philippines, my brother has a bad back, and there
in those wild lands of my brother will come to herself.

Do you know where is the island of Zamboanga?

Because I have told you, it also comes Carib land. For there, in that blissful Zamboanga my brother
landed within two months, and there will the opportunity to christen heretics and make great
achievements.

This is not to say that I absolutely trust in your salvation, since the goat as its spots, the vicious
strip ever ... to the shooting. Oh, what efforts we had to make last minute! Had you seen ...! What
hombrazo! At the station told us that there will be a cassock Nebuchadnezzar. That is what you
want as long as not return to their old ways, or appear more here ... And do not think you ...
I have a scare ...! It I figure that of Barcelona or Marseilles we returned to Madrid and I
go through the door at least we wait ... You do not know him well.

And you're supposed to lie the natural evil; as if they had not haunted, if they had not sucked
the brains, another rooster will sing.

In a state of annoyance and irritation indescribable, Knight had to restrain not make a blunder.
The truth, he felt like giving him a couple of slaps.

"Ah, - said the timber - do you know that she is not dead Celedonia poor? We took the hospital
the day after the scandal ... And even tell you another thing, I did not see nothing, I know
nothing. "

- Madam, I do not know who Caledonia, nor do I care. Come to mine. I know, I know you has two
letters ...

His irritation led him to dispense with all courtesy and sensitivity. Raised the question in rude
terms, saying:

"I need you to give me these two letters. I buy them, you hear it well, buy them. You say. "

- Oh, I do not remember that - Marcelina said, addressing one of the
comfortable.

- Shopping - Agustín repeated, tasting the bitterness
of his curiosity satisfied.

The Polo stirred a time when the top drawer. Her back was to Knight, a fairly distance. Augustine
felt rustling of papers. After a pause, the voice of Marcelina and said:

"For you must know that there's nothing here, nothing of what you want ... Touch you to another
door, here does not commit the reputation of any person, good or bad. If any rengloncillo appears
in these caches, I will follow the advice of Father Nones, who told me: 'O deliver its owner or
the flames, 'and I ...».

He turned in front of Knight with his hands behind his back.

"Nothing, sir, nothing. I keep to my guns.

I do not harm anyone or my major enemies. Before I die to stop sending me accomplish what D.
Juan Manuel, and as I have not to see the interest, and I have no
desire to do so, you attend ...».

With quick movement uncovered the brazier and threw it in his hand what he had. Knight ran to
save from the fire that threw that devilish female, but came too late. Embers were alive,
and the curious saw nothing but a paper twisted and curled thin lifting call ... Nothing but a
name he read was the signing and said: Torment. With the final or linking a garabatito ... Yes,
it was his garabatito, his person autographed in that trait looked like a curly hair.

Angry and unable to save the forms imposed upon him a good education, because he was man belonging
to nature more than the Company, which stood as something borrowed, faced the wooden effigy,
and said in the most brutal.

"I was annoyed you ... Left you with God or the Devil, who is now
in the body, and I rejoice that soon burst ...».

Escaped left, furious ... Took the direction of his house, but had
not gone twenty yards when had an inspiration, a true celestial lightning
entered his mind.

The street of Beatas was very close ... Secret instinct told him
that there could be burning disease of your questions better remedy
than elsewhere.

"Who knows - he thought his spirit gorge from confusion to another - when all I cheat and
have fun with me, she can be it tells me the truth ... Wow, that
if we leave now that he is innocent ... But where is he?, Why is he
hiding?

... I will hide it so you will not see ... Damn my blindness, my
inexperience in the world!

... Rosalia deceiving me, deceiving me and all my friends play with
this poor man, who understands riddles ... Who can tell me the truth?

... What voice hear the ringing in my soul?, "which says: kill it, or that says forgive her? Gross,
unlucky wild, you should not be out of your forests, Jurate says
yes you the truth, forgive ... Yes, the spare ... I feel like to forgive
her, Mrs. Company ... If he is guilty and is sorry, forgive her, Mrs.
Company as hell, and I pass to you by the nose.

"

"Miss Amparo - told the concierge - has gone half an hour ago with
a gentleman ...».

- With a gentleman?

- Yes, glasses ... tiny, with
a color of dried figs Carriker.

- Ah, my cousin ... Abur ...

It
seems that the devil did.

I had never walked the streets in such a hurry, and never had so
many embarrassments.

The umbrella is latching every moment with people coming in the opposite direction. You believe
that they wanted to bite and throw each other the The flooded water. Then, he kept finding
people known to each moment I stopped to ask about his health and say, "Have you seen how long?".
Reached think that had gathered on his way to mortify. And for this, Lord, had it was a commitment
that limited the number of your friends!

'D. Augustine, weather!

Tomorrow is new moon and may change "- said in the alley Dog a dependent
of Trujillo.

- Abur, Abur ...

Finally got home ... By opening the
door, said to Philip:

"Miss Amparo awaits you ...».

And he, hearing this, shook with shock and grief, curiosity and fear
of satisfying ... What would she face?, What would you say?

"And my cousin Bringas, is too?".

- No, sir, the lady came alone.

Knight went through the rooms. The first was not in the second either. What surprised him most
was hearing the tune of the birds.

But at the moment to put his foot in the second cabinet, the music suddenly stopped. Had run
the string. Silence suspended following the gig was so respectful and mournful, that Augustine
was afraid ... Well there was not. He saw a glass on the table, a bottle. Then our illustrious
friend up with some trepidation the curtain of the bedroom and saw
a foot ... Frightened stopped looking better, because the balcony
of the bedroom was closed and there was very little light ... He saw
a black skirt ... hanging arm, hand touching the ground ... a pink
ear ... a scarf covering face ... He approached the horrible suspicion
that there were no signs of life that body; so still was ... Looked
closely ... Touched, called ... Yes, living ... breathing work as
if suffering from a strong grief.

The eyes were closed, dry ...

Leaving the cabinet again, Knight
saw the recipe ... He read briefly ran out ... Felipe came to meet
in the classroom ...

"To call a doctor - said the master -.

Say, Miss came alone?, Did you take ...?». dresses

- A medicine, yes sir. He sent me to bring it to the pharmacy.

- You! ... Doomed! - Augustine said attacking the servant with such fury, that thought reached the
end of his days.

- Mr Philip ...-- stammered crying - I did the medicine ...

- What? ... dog ... murderer.

- Do not worry ... The pharmacist told me it was poison, and then
I ... Oh, do not hit me!

... I came home, took an empty bottle, filled it with tap water ... and burst water ...

- What banished, executioner?

- It took a little tincture of guaiac ... brought the Doña Marta when I ached molars.

- Call Dona Marta ... Not notify the doctor yet.

Knight returned to the cabinet. On the table was also a letter. Breaking the envelope, read these
crooked letters written in pencil: All true. I do not deserve forgiveness, but pity. Then I had
the name of Amparo, and after the o, garabatito ... Infamous garabatito!

... She ran to her, because he felt moan ... The wild-eyed suicide Miron and began saying a word,
very inconsistent and without any sense.

"This is madness ... attack to the head "- said Dona Marta, who had come hurrying ...

- To call a doctor, no, no, not to call.

Wait, wait ...

He returned to the cabinet.

Or the man was insane or lacked very little.

- Dona Marta.

- Lord ...

- What do we do?

- This is serious. He says it is nonsense and an ember in the head ...

- Take her home ... take her home immediately, at his house - pulling Knight said of the confusion
a clear purpose -. Take charge you, Dona Marta, that goes well, and leave you with it. You,
Philip, you bring a car, but a decent car, a good car ... No, better
will you bring the first to find ... Dona Marta, take care you take,
and take care that nothing is missing ... Then, Felipe, alert the
doctor, a good doctor, are you?, And say going there, home ... Arropármela,
say, bun ... That is not cool ... Soon; the accoutrement ... That
will not be anything.

Under these orders, looked even from the cabinet,
though pitiful beautiful picture: the foot discovered, the hanging
arm, the pale oval face, the mouth half open ... Oh, sweet clothes
...! With broken heart my man locked himself in his office ... If
you do not cry was because I could, which did not lack desire.

XXXVII

Four
days later, according to insurance data, supplied by the diligent
observation of Rye, was D. Agustin Caballero in the self and a convalescent
state of severe disease. Its wrong color and allowances announced
insomnia, bad temper and mood disorder, a manifestation perhaps liver,
complicated with melancholy or depressive feelings. And it is noteworthy
that had seldom been our good friend so talkative, only speaking great
things they are said to himself. The cast of this comedy Tell them
performed a monologue or parliament Long, who had been shot four days
before, and had overtones of conclusion, so that if that monologue
was heard, the public would be, as it were, throwing stones. By repetition
febrile ideas and concepts that soliloquy was unworthy of reproduction.
From time time an idea that intimate discourse detached from gushing
out, condensing into sentence pronounced. This phrase, echoing in
the cabinet, had an echo, which was issued by the Rosalía Bringas
authorized lips:

"You're right, it seems very well thought out. What
you leave in America is a silly feature childish. Go a few days to
Bordeaux, and there you will be distracted. Then come back here, where
you many friends where you are so loved and respected ... and you
take care that no bones about tripping. "

Were in the cabinet of
songbirds, which had not reopened the peak from this sad set. Rosalie
had ventured to vary the location and placement of some objects of
pure desire to bully. Perhaps unwittingly, took some air homemaker
house, and gave sovereign provisions anyway. The previous night, Sir,
which irritated genius was manifested in the most trivial things,
had said haughtily: "I do not want not touch anything ... Everything
on the site it occupies ...». Upon hearing this, the lady had responded
somewhat bewildered: "Well, man ... I do not think disarming the small
altar ... There you have it all ... I do not get anything. "

That
day, after passing his whole soul the resolution of the short trip
to Bordeaux, the lady became chronic verbal Party held at the Palace
the night before. As had entered the street, sat on the sofa with
his cashmere cuff and veil. Lying on a couch indolent the humanity
of the great Thiers discreet, silent and melancholy, against his custom,
cause of a serious accident that happened at the ball, and not away,
alas, no a second of your mind.

Knight went back and forth with his
hands in his pockets. Without hearing the laudatory descriptions that
the soiree was his cousin, strikes a mirror, and looking ... Here
is a piece taken Random their endless parliament, rather free translation:

"Gross,
stupid, simple, or do not know what name to give you ... Why did you
get into civilization? "Who told you you leave your land, which is
the border region, where men live paddle attached to a rough work?
I'm laughing at your outrageous itching to lay square in the middle
of the order, being a perfect conference regular in these mechanisms
in Europe ... Go a fiasco, matey! ... Háblate family; pondérate the
state, offered in the Religion ... In the first change, civilization,
established on these bases as a leftover pot their tripods, falls
and gives you a thump on the nose and I decays and smears you all,
putting lost to shame and ridicule ... Regular life, law, system,
method, concert, harmony ... do not exist for the bear. The bear retreats
to his solitude, the bear can not be a parent; Bear can not be a citizen,
the bear can not be Catholic, the bear can not be anything, and recovers
its wild will ... Yes, rustic adventure, do not you see how sad and
stupid was your test? Do not you see everyone laugh at you? Do not
you know that every step you take is a setback? You're like which
has never set foot marble, and the first step down