 For this is more than enough with a basin or a tinajón of Lucena.
The glass art requires putting on a beautiful lounge where: Pilgrim asked that flowers look at
him. Thus, a woman was asking Beatriz estate, gift, grace, worship, incense ride in the car, not walk,
to live in a palace, not in a third floor, not hidden among the vulgar, but shine in the highest
society.

In thinking about this Don Braulio always said to himself: "Why I married her?" And he he answered
it already said in the letter to Paco Ramírez: "I loved her, and this explains everything; she
loved me, maybe she still loves me, his love, even if it was only
a day, compensates all the evils that I feel and older can come.

"

With these feelings hidden within, Don Braulio, seemingly happy and even joyful, took his wife and
his sister to the Gardens at about nine o'clock at night.

Both were on their blanket, dark silk dresses, nothing garish and dissonant color or ornaments,
with an innate elegance that is exuded as a perfume of the same simplicity and modesty of their
dress.

Don Braulio was in his, though clean, fed neglected. His coat and hat were fashion the way for
eight or ten years. His black tie was a little shabby, and neck shirt, straight and on a large,
nearly reached his ears.

Beatriz half had fought with her husband to make him carry lower collars
and buy new hat and new coat.

I could not get. "What?" - Said Don Braulio -. Mr. hobbies more. So when I was young, and I
will not change. So I fell in love, so I wanted to, so you married me. "

Doña Beatriz did not know what to say after all, was silent, and let go as you don Braulio wanted.

That
night, therefore, made no comment on the suit of Mr. Braulio, but
not left to tie it graceful loop of the tie, or stroking her hair,
put ointment and combing the best she could.

The three took a stroller with mustache and went to the Gardens.

Along the way, said Don Braulio:

- I think, and I'm sorry that you are going to annoy. We have no friends.
Do not even have known.

In the midst of the hubbub going to be like a desert. Who is to tell?

Who is to approach us?

- Men, do not worry for so little - answered Dona Beatriz -.

If you do not know anybody, if no one speaks, well that neither you nor I know yet of memory.
Talk, we tell new things, we shall the gathering of the three, we'll hear the music and cool.

- To take the air - said Don Braulio - the same is to go there than the Prado.

- And still save money for the tickets - Beatriz said.

Ines was silent, and left to continue the dialogue between husband and wife.

- I do not mean expenditure poverty, Beatriz.

You know that I'm not mean, though I am poor.

- I know. I suspect not think it hurts to spend money on gifts. I say no irony. I say this only to realize
that, view things as you see them, is silly go to the Gardens, but I, and Agnes certainly more
than I see them through another prism. We like to see people, but not repaired by us. The animation,
joy, entertainment Luxury recreate us. Although we do not forge the illusion or hope or even
desire be seen and admired, want to see and admire the show, the beauty and elegance of others.

-
You're right, my dear, you're right. I forget you're a girl.

Your tastes are as a girl. Mal did in marrying a man ... and an old poor and obscure. Would
you be called and held for you, leaving your husband in his dark and poverty? Would you that
I came to be known as the husband of Dona Beatriz?

- I do not want,
or that is possible.

Everyone who knows me will know you, and, knowing, estimarte can
not but by what you're worth that much, and not because you are my
husband.

Those who are known only as husbands is because otherwise they do
not deserve to be.

No one would remember of them but for their wives. As for your age, your darkness and your poverty,
I fall in love again, well you know, that youth, brilliance and wealth in any other. If something
is worth my love, it bathes your soul and feel rejuvenated. Do not talk to me sometimes the sweet
light of my eyes? For lights that light your darkness. Did not you say that my love is a treasure?
Well, how dare you, ungrateful, to argue that you're poor?

Don Braulio, who was sitting in the mustache, hearing phrases such
as loving mouth linda could not contain his excitement, he burst into
tears, holding the hand of his wife, kissed passionately.

Doña Beatriz in her hand felt a tear fell on it to give the kiss Don
Braulio.

Then Beatriz said:

- Now, now ... let's not childish. Do not test me now because you
are old, but children are much more than me.

Let us rejoice, and let's have fun serenémonos far as possible. Let us apply to this case the proverb
that says: "In the poor house burst better no excess.

"It is necessary to get good juice to pesetillas we're going to spend. Well not so! It would
be wasteful spending and not make fun of course.

Don Braulio calmed down following the advice of his wife tried to smile and appear happy, and even
excited Inesita his wife and to have fun.

Thus came to the Garden, took notes and entered.

VIII

That night in the Gardens had more people than usual.

Some sat in chairs in groups, dances and small gatherings, others
were turning by the circular walk, at whose center is the kiosk of
the orchestra.

This touching, with enough Masters, the final round of Cenerentola.

Our Don Braulio and girls did not see a single familiar face.

Instead of sitting began to rotate through this competition.

Don Braulio soon noticed that although no one knew, was not the same one that accompanied walk women
as beautiful. That was far from looking like a desert.

Often, especially when passing groups of men, reached the ears of
Don Braulio vague murmurs flattering, and occasional words and even
whole sentences of admiration and commendable.

In Spain, I will not get to moralize about it or to decide whether
it is right or wrong, but men without believing that offend, often
woo the way to the ladies, in particular when they are alone.

On this occasion, or not look at Don Braulio, or give little importance to him, judge or distracted
and not hear, and Ines Beatriz collected good crop of compliments.

Both made the collection such as cold and impassive dignity, soon, as if Word's out that these
creatures did not ask for war, the compliments ended, but not ended the open road as they passed
them. Also followed the buzz of excitement and sympathy.

They had already given three times our girls, when a group of young elegant spotted both at the same
time the Count of Alhedín.

Inesita kept his composure Olympic Beatriz became very red.

- Did you see the Condesito? - Told Inesita ear.

- Ay, ay, what are
you wearing red!

Another new wave of blood red rose then the face of Dona Beatriz, who became more colorful.

- You are like a poppy - Ines said.

The group who had seen the Count coming toward them from the front.

The count was no doubt happen next. Who knows if they speak?

Who knows if we will say a word bold, Don Braulio hear? Perhaps this suspicion was as red as
Dona Beatriz.

The unique thing was that the Count suddenly disappeared from the group, which, to meet our
heroines, was opened to let them pass, hearing both sides flattering
and respectful murmurs, similar to those of other people had already
heard them.

Ines said the cloth to his sister:

- Where has slipped the Condesito?

- Who knows - Beatriz said.

- Well, sister, I can not tell with your eyes all that I recommended
last night to tell him.

They had not gone a long way after this short dialogue, when they saw a circle, where many people
were sitting, stood up and said a lady elegant, although somewhat buxom. There was thickened,
and retained their thinness and much of its beauty, despite the years. Was not galas, the place
unfit for public, but all I was wearing was exquisite taste, rich without being gaudy.

Instead of the blanket had hat. His face was funny. His complexion rosy, if somewhat brown. On
his face two beautiful spots, like two clumps of bamboo in a meadow flowers. His eyes, large and
fulmineo, flashed more thanks to the fence that was dark painted
her eyelids.

His waist was majestic pair lightweight and flexible. In short, all the poise and appearance
of this lady who was a lionne denote a real salience of the court.

What was the astonishment of Agnes and Beatrice when they realized they had been smitten salience
them! A gentleman of twenty to thirty years, carrying a coat and with a little box followed her
like a lacayuelo.

Just got the lady stood before Beatrice looked at her tenderly, and
exclaimed: "Dear mine!

"threw her arms around his neck and kissed her on both cheeks.

Beatrice stood for a moment looking for anyone who touched her. Recognizing at last he said: "Rosita,
'and he paid her kisses with others.

Perhaps the patient reader curious to know and remember the story
of Dr. Faustino has fallen into who was Rosita.

Rosita Gutierrez was the famous daughter of the clerk of Villabermeja, that makes such an important
role in that history. [*]

[*: See The Illusions of Doctor Faustino novel.]

Rosita seemed immortal, as preserved. Far from losing with age, could
ensure I had won.

Little by little had been molding and adjusting for such art to the use of the most elegant Madrid,
which hardly anyone dared not call her the "Queen of kitsch," which was given that initially
gave him.

Her husband had business wise, and had also benefited more. Both spouses had become very aristocratic,
religious and conservative. Idolized Pius IX, had a title Roman. Condes de San Teódulo were.
Had been in devout pilgrimage to Lourdes and Rome and then had brought several relics of that
holy, which had been one of the six thousand martyrs of the Theban Legion, and by that, it was
proven with evidence that was natural of the greatest people in the
district where Rosita's husband used to go deputy.

With the relics brought by the pilgrims said the effigy of San Teódulo, and everything carried
the village, where there was an immense joy and celebrations boisterous. Nothing more natural,
after this, that Rosita and her husband were to become Condes de
San Teódulo.

However, not content with being Condes them by Rome, were eager to be Marquis in Castile and it had
long sought with eagerness. Meanwhile, complying with the saying of 'Child not have, and we
name it "had pondered a lot and played more the counts on name that
was to have the Marquis.

They agreed the two in which the name was to be the in some rural property they possessed, but,
unfortunately, the husband's farm Rosita was impossible. They called: The Biznaga, The Hinojal
and The Macuca. It was not safe with titles such ugly head. They resolved, therefore, that on a
farm titled Rosie called Camarena, and I dreamed of being Marquis
de Camarena, settling soon as San Teódulo County, Theban and Andalusian
martyr at a time, which, here is understood as understood, involves
no contradiction.

Entitled Rosita, and more rich and prosperous than ever, develop in his soul felt love more
pure to the letters and the arts.

He called his rooms to artists and poets, and became a Lorenza as a Patron of the Magnificent or
female.

As for the former cursería, we said that no one dared hardly accuse
her of this defect; defect, moreover, so vague and undefinable, which
is almost always the criterion of People find him or not finding the
others.

What does happen, usually, is that allegations are mutual. No subject is given only when he
described someone corny, do more than pay, it is uncertain whether
he qualified for qualifying mouth full of the same.

Is this because it is a quality cursería indeterminate and confusing? I think not, because I
noticed that it does the same with certain other qualities sick. Whenever I've heard a woman
talk about the amorous intrigues of the intricacies and tricks of the others I've seen that
she told the other a thousand times.

And on the lips of anyone with whom I have referred thousand horrors
underhand behavior in public employment, I have also heard diatribes
stronger accusing the others of the same peccadillo.

Pray for natural goodness, but not innate, but acquired with age and experience, now poohing
dull and blunt a weapon to force everyone to use, the Countess of San Teódulo I had no bad language.
Oddly enough! He did not speak ill of his friends. Just spoke ill of his enemies declared and
bitter. Then took great pains and took great joke. Occasionally, although the spoken prose
was exquisite, I used to appeal to the verse, and sent to his favorite
poet to write doggerel against the person who wanted her to ridicule.

Time away was the friendship of General Perez, the Countess was not
involved in politics; not lecturing on strategy, and castrametación
Poliorcetes.

Now devoted all their ingenuity the muses.

And, since his trip to Rome, where he had been three weeks, had acquired profound concepts
in drawing, painting and visual arts, and had become an archaeologist more than reasonable.

Such,
in brief, was the friend who, unexpectedly, were found in the Gardens Inesita and Beatrice.

Rosita,
eight years ago, had been on the show the people of both, not far
from town her, and was hosted at the home of Mr. Cure, a friend of
his father.

But why not it had been forgotten those women who were girls when
they met them, and should have changed enough?

What came to them with such simplicity and goodness?

Why is the had, as they are led, in running, sitting by his side?

Don Braulio all this was as stunned or more stunned than us. The difference is we will know the
cause in the next chapter and will don the dark Braulio and thinking.

IX

All presentations will be made with due ceremonies, according to the liturgy of society elegant.
Doña Beatriz introduced her husband to the Countess and Countess
presented to the Knights that formed the circle, first and then Beatriz
Ines and Don Braulio.

This Luckily, the three were thrown into the great world in a jiffy,
in a blink of an eye.

He was not there the Count of San Teódulo there was not more lady the Countess. In this, as nearly
all ladies of high stem and supreme elegance, did not like dealing with women but in rare cases. So
much more to thank and to estimate, therefore, the rare exception I had done and Ines Beatriz.

All seated on the floor again, the favorite poet of the Countess, who call Arthur gave Inesita
conversation without also would stop talking to her other suitors.

Don Braulio, although shocked and suspicious and start to become famous by his wife, spoke
to more serious and Machucha gentlemen.

Doña Beatriz and the Countess of San Teódulo spoke at length with
each other and whispered, remembering their old friendship.

A few minutes later the Countess of Dona Beatriz had demanded the re-apear treatment the re-tutear
as she remembered that back in the village had familiarly.

Why refuse to so great kindness? The two friends tutearon in effect.

And remember the reader hearty villager was Rosita.

Condesa was the same with those who deserved it.
- I can not understand - said Beatriz - how could you know so many
people and then so many years.

- My daughter - answered the Countess
-, I will have limited understanding, but I have lots of memory and,
above all, lots of good will to those whom I cherish. We have recognized
hundred thousand people without history, without being prevented,
without notice to you were you among them. Also, what merit is there
in me? Who sees you when you can not forget.

- Thank you, thank you
confuse me with your praise indulgent and generous.

- I speak the
truth. And then you have not changed in the face. Your body is another,
you've unwrapped, embarnecido you have something, you made a beautiful
woman. Praxiteles would you have taken as a model. These garments
are no doubt others of you today. When we tried in the place you were
a child. I saw fresh and tender then the bud, now I see the rose,
which has made all the luxury its lush aromatic corolla. But I repeat,
face, expression, looking ... nothing this has changed. When you talk
you look like a married woman ... but quietly ... look a girl, more
candid ... more innocent than your sister, who is also very cute.

-
Anyway ... is unique ... no history ... not knowing I was in Madrid
...

- No, it does not. I do not like to brag about what I should
not. I have recently learned that were in Madrid. If I had known before
I had gone to see your home.

- Who knows me? Who could tell you about
me? My husband is a poor employee ...

- Will you say, but his intelligence
and diligence are delighted the Minister and full of envy to all staff
of the Secretariat. The Minister did not do more than talk your husband.
And what's with you, but you live so withdrawn, speak and many since,
few nights have you seen in these gardens.

- It is possible, women!
Want to make fun of me?

- Tired know you do not mock me.

- Do not
laugh because you're good, but you want to tease me. It is true that
I came here a few nights have, but nobody knew me.

- Then I knew
and admired you. Someone who is proudly weary of discontented, difficult,
was so enchanted that I followed.

Doña Beatriz blushed again.

-
How do you know? - Said.

- The told me.

- Who?

- Do you want to
regale the ear? The Count of Alhedín, elegant flower, the most handsome
of our chickens.

- It would be my sister.

- That I have not said
word count. It has simply say that I followed, and made me the most
brilliant of you praise. Ensure you have never seen two women more
beautiful and aristocratic in nature. Before coming to me was the
Count took reports, and I I do not know how the hell had written that,
despite your precipitate flight in a stingy, I already knew how you
called, where you lived, who you were, who was your husband, and a
thousand other things. It is clear that to tell me I realized that
you were the girls that had so I wanted in place, and entered into
a desire to see you again. If I tell you frankly, I've only been here
tonight to see if I was. I have people at home: a circle of friends.
There I ahead, and my husband is with them. Anyway, thank God that
I have found. Well supposed I you had to come because it is Sunday
night, when your husband does not have chores. The other night was
crazy what they did, believing that nobody would notice. Come alone
... two girls ... exposing the persecution of any uneducated fool!
... Not all are the cream of courtesy. Not all are like the Count
of Alhedín, which can distinguish to escape who has to deal with.

-
You are right - said Beatriz -, was a blunder, it was unwise to what
we did the other night. Do not do it again.

- From here on out would
be impossible. I desentonaríais. Already by this time I know all of
Madrid; that is, society. You must come, or with your husband ...
or me. I bring in my car if Gardens amuse you. My poet and some other
escort us. It is necessary to put on airs. No is a matter of coming
here two girls and two adventurous.

- Much I have to thank - said
Beatriz.

- No, my child, do not thank me anything. I do it for selfishness.
Here among us, vanity I'm not blind, I still and cotorrona