 

Prisoner Rico and occupied his papers, the conspirators offered Carbonell forgiveness and forgetting
his crime, wherever they occur in a term to their authority. Such as caused great alarm among
the initiated, awakening in their minds the fear of being denounced each other, and the crowd
rushed into the hands of the authorities, gullibility of the innocent men, novices in the
art of plotting.

Soon the prisons were crowded with Venezuelan honest and industrious. Had not yet run one month
after the complaint, when he was officiating at the Court of Spain, saying: "that with the exception
of two, who had sought refuge in foreign colonies, the other accomplices they were prisoners. "Don
Manuel Grail, captain retired and Don Jose Maria Espana were referred
fugitives.

But rather than forgive and forget, as he promised, in August the
same year ordered Hearing that the detainees were banished for life
and moved around the metropolis and others in Puerto Rico.

Some months later, the captain-general was replaced by Don Manuel de Guevara Vasconcelos who make use
of the wide powers inhuman that he was sworn in, condemned to be hanged and quartered for six of the
main conspirators. This unjust and unfair to proceed exacerbated the Venezuelan people, more
especially as the promoters of the conspiracy, Sebastian Jose Andres
and Laz, despite their greater offense by this circumstance and to
be recidivists deserved no other penalty than imprisonment in the
provinces of Panama and Puerto-Cabello.

Guevara opened so its entry into the remote and 1799, in which month of April was arrested Don
Jose Maria Espana, whom his evil star brought from Trinidad to La Guaira in search his wife, the tender
solicitude of this is not enough to keep you well-hidden or defended against Research by government
agents. On March 8, that is, nine days after his capture the poor suffered the penalty of the gallows
and his head, inside an iron cage, were exposed the public in La
Guaira, while their mutilated members were distributed among several
people and fixed anchors at the roadside.

But such measures only served to fester terror more and more the minds
and excite general hatred and discontent of a people worthy of better
luck, treated with such cruel way as the most abject of slaves.

So the failures of Spain closed the eighteenth century, contributing not a little in this way
accelerate the emancipation of Venezuela and all the other colonies, whose cries, carried Europe
by some of its most resolute patriots, asked France and England relief necessary to undertake
the holy work of its independence and trying to shake Always heavy, ominous yoke worked there
for three centuries by the Spanish with prejudice, injustice and impunity of fragrant natural
rights of those sacred who had their blood, those whose sweat and
toil was not even enough to feed their insatiable greed.

Among the zealous managers of the noblest of causes included the Peruvian Don Jose Caro, the Don
Antonio Narino and Granada, with its vast relationships and great name in Europe, the Caracas Don
Francisco Miranda. Filled all three of ardent patriotism, all three of the best animated desire
jeopardized whatever means were at hand to conclude in the old continent how to change the
political face of his country, giving an independent and republican
government that would guide people to prosperity and progress that
the general trend of the times and the wealth of America claimed.

Such was the situation in Venezuela to get lost in the immensity of time the last century, century,
to engender a Napoleon and Washington, was part of a spark of genius revolutionary man who later
was to deserve the glorious name of Liberation their country, and whose high deeds would come
to immortalize the chisel, bronze and pen. Simon Bolivar stepped on the threshold of life in
the city of Caracas on July 24, 1783. Decorated born talents and skills necessary to consummate
the work of independence of South America, and to be the repairer of the injustice that men had once
inferred to fearless and wise discoverer of the New World, trying, with the most noble elevation
the spirit at the same time risked their lives in the battlefields,
to perpetuate the memory Colon in the Confederation who endeavored
to form under the title of Colombia.

This honest, intelligent, noble, tireless and resolute patriot, had the misfortune of losing their
parents at a very early age. These were Juan Vicente and Maria de la Concepcion Palacios. His
filial affection, devoid of beloved objects, spilled over his chest
and consecrate the whole mud to their homeland, heaven only mother
he had kept and which later sacrificed glad your blood and fortune