 

He spoke enthusiastically about the operation of branding, that Don Fernando had never seen.
The yegüerizos sow casting their ties to the wild horses, holding them by the ears, while
the iron was heated in a fire of dried cow dung, and to be the red mark, wham, applied it to the
side, burning the hair and skin being marked forever the cross and the crescent. And with some
sympathy for Salvatierra, knowing thus ignored some things that were for the most interesting overseer
of the world, he continued explaining the regime to which young horses are subjected, all the operations
carried out by voluntary in their enthusiasm for the rider.

First the moor, coming from the freedom of the pasture, to become accustomed to eat at the manger,
then went to the field, compared to the farmhouse, with big head and a long rope, to go round like
a ring, and learn to dams, to put the leg back where they put the front, or beyond, if possible.
After that came the operation supreme place the chair on the backs, their wild nervousness accustomed
to this bonded; accustom them to the crupper, and stirrups. And finally they were mounted to give them
turns, hold the top rope, then managing them with the reins. Foals he had unbroken, almost
wild animals, they inspired fear many! ...

He spoke with pride of their energy fighting with wild beasts and willingness to neigh and bit
the air, kicking, rising vertically or dunking your head on the ground while coceaban in space, but
so could be freed from the oppression of their legs steel, until finally, after a mad race,
which seemed to find the obstacles to crush the rider, became sweaty and defeated, submitting entirely
to the hand the editor.

Rafael was arrested in the narrative of his exploits horse, seeing the shadow of a person Chart
door on the bottom of violet light of dusk.

- Ah! Is that you? - He laughed .-- Pass, Capers, have no fear.

In came a young man of small stature, moving cautiously sideways, as if afraid touching the wall. In
its early shrinkage seemed to implore forgiveness for all that do. Her eyes glowed in the dark
as well as strong and sharp teeth. Approaching in light of the candlestick, Salvatierra was
set at the copper color of his face, in the corneas of eyes, which seemed stained with snuff,
in the hands of two colors, pink palm and the back of a black man who became even more intense under
the fingernails. Despite the cold, wearing summer blouse, a pleated guayabera, still wet from
the rain, and the head was two hats, one inside the other, of different colors, as their hands.
The below showing a brand new gray and white on the underside of
its wings, the top was old, a reddish black, with frayed edges.

Rafael grabbed the lad by the shoulder, making it balanced, and presented it to Salvatierra with
a comic gravity.

- This is Capers, which Nah, you probably have heard.

The more gypsy thief too Jerez. If there were any justice, would
have long ago dao club in the plaza of the Jail.

Capers jumped to escape the claws of the overseer, and shaking hands feminine gestures, eventually
chased.

- Oops!, Zeno Rafa and how bad it is uzté ... Jozu! And what he says this man!

The overseer continued frowning and deep voice:

- Work at Matanzuela
with his family for many years, but is a thief like gypsies toos and
should be in prison.

"Nah, you know why it comes with two hats? Pa filling chickpea or beans so I neglect: and he does
not know the best day I stick a shotgun.

- Jozu! Senor Rafa! But what does Nah, you, blessed? ...

And clasped her hands in despair, looking eagerly Salvatierra and
telling children:

- Nah, you do not believe him, Zeno, is very bad
and I say that by rotting blood.

For the salusita my mare that too is a lie ...

And he explained the mystery of the two overlapping hats had soaked to the ears around his face
in a halo of rogue two colors.

The one below was the new, the Holidays and unsheathed when I went
to Jerez.

In the days of work did not dare leave at the farm for fear of the companions, who allowed
all sorts of jokes with him because was "a poor gypsy", and covered it with the old so it does
not lose his gray and silky it was his pride.

Exacerbating the overseer continued to gypsy peasant humor that delights in anger the poor in spirit
and the homeless.

- Hey, capers, you know who is this guy? It is the gift Fernando Salvatierra.

Did not never heard of him? ...

Gypsy nodded in amazement, opening her eyes wide.

- For some nombrao which is the breast! In the last two hours Gañanía
Jablan no more than him.

For many years, sah! M 'cones glad one preson so fine and so one. Well mers is that their is someone:
has the face of gobernaor.

Salvatierra smiled at the gypsy's fawning obsequiousness. Unhappy that he did not know categories;
judged by the reputation, and considering him a powerful figure,
an authority, trembling, hiding his embarrassment with fawning smile
of races ever prosecuted.

- Don Fernando - continued the overseer
.-- Nah, you have friends abroad could fix the trip to Capers.

To see if that land was so lucky as their bonuses.

And speaking of Capers, gypsy dancers who gave a hit in Paris and in many Russian cities, whose
names could not remember the overseer. His portraits included to on boxes of matches, the newspapers
talked about them, they had diamonds in abundance, dancing theaters and palaces and one of them
had won a Grand Duke, or panjandrum Rafael remembered what another title, taking her to a castle
where he lived like a queen.

- And that too, Don Fernando, a wise monkeys, so ugly and black as his cousin here today; a
gawky, which I have seen small chickpeas robbing farmhouses and other
seeds vivacious rats, no more than one gypsy and a shameless that
put coloraos men.

Is that what they like those big shots? Come on, man, is to laugh! ...

And laughing, actually, to think that living as a great ladies those wenches coppery, ember-eyed,
he had seen loitering dirty and crusty in the fields of Jerez.

Capers spoke with some pride of their premiums, but regretting the different sort of way family.
They made a queen and he with his poor mare, his younger brothers, and Mari-Cruz, your poor little
cousin, always sick, winning two reals in the farmhouse! Thank you very much and that gave them
work every year knowing that they were good! ... Their premiums were about culling not written to the
family and is not sent or this. (And did crack the nail of a thumb between the teeth of a
horse.)

- Breast: paece lie that my uncle to behave so badly with his family,
being a cañí.

With so much wanted him tried to stop me! ...

But far from being indignant, he broke into praise of Uncle capers,
a man of initiatives, tired of going hungry in Jerez and be in danger
of going to jail if strayed a donkey or a mule, had thrown the guitar
over his shoulder, not stopping with all their "wins" as he called
the daughters, even the Paris.

And laughed ironically capers simplicity of porridge, of all people
who dominate the world and oppresses the poor Gypsies, recalling some
leaflets and newspapers that had seen the portrait of his respected
uncle, looking their pins jacha mouth, and face a thief, under a hat
like a steeple Catita and surrounded by columns printed in a tongue
spoken in the mademoiselle Capers and celebrated her grace and beauty,
repeating every six rows Ollé!

Ollé! ... And his uncle, for greater solemnity, was called Captain
Capers! "Captain of what?

... Y their cousins, mademoiselle, you were robbed by big shots who were afraid of the father
terrible you gentleman, who had so often philosophically strumming the guitar in the stores,
while the girls were hiding with the gentlemen in the rooms beyond. Joshua, who banter! ...

But
the gypsy went quickly from laughter to melancholy, sprightly incoherence bird of his soul.
Oh, if I lived their partner, who had been an eagle, compared with this brother who was so fortunate!
...

- Your father died? - Salvatierra said.

- Yes, sah, a fart in the cemetery, and being good, you Yamo er crow's there.

And Capers continued his lamentations. If I had not killed the poor thing! Instead of premiums
he and his brothers would enjoy so much wealth.

And he claimed in good faith neglecting as insignificant the difference
of sex, not giving any value to the ugliness spicy cousins, believing
that his fortune was due to skill in singing, for which the pobresita
of his mare, his cousin Mari-Cruz and he was worth far more than all
the Capers who roamed the world.

The overseer, looking sad gypsy ofrecíale protection.

His fortune was made. There was Don Fernando, with its influences of character, we had booked
a job.

Capers opened his eyes, fearing ridicule.

But fearing a foul if he did not thanks to that man, overwhelmed
with sugary words Salvatierra, as he looked the overseer, not knowing
where I was going to stop.

- If, porridge - Rafael .-- Already have
continued employment.

The breast will make Seviya executioner or Jerez: what you choose.

The gypsy jumped, showing his comic outrage with an overflow of words.

-
Cursed!

Arrastrao! Mala spank shotgun, Rafael Sr., in his gut renegrísimas! ...

He paused in his cursing, seeing that they served to delight the overseer, and added with malicious
intent:

- Gave premit mers that when you go to his vineyard of Don Paul, you cunt-faced RESIBIR Lent.

Rafael
and not laugh. He feared that the gypsy, in the presence of Don Fernando, spoke of her love
godfather's daughter, and was quick to dismiss.

- Take a cigarette and get out ... hoodoo. Your mother will be waiting.

Capers was due to the docility of a dog. Saying goodbye to Salvatierra extended his mulatto
hand, repeating that he waited in the Gañanía and people walked to revolt presonages know that
a so high was in Matanzuela.

When he left, the overseer spoke to Don Fernando de los Capers and other Roma from the farmhouse. Were
families who worked years and years in the same house, as if they
were part of it.

Were easier to handle, men and women, that other people of the Gañanía. With them there was no fear rebellion,
strikes, or threats. They were both beggars and thieves, but shrink from threatening gestures
with the docility of a persecuted race.

Rafael had only seen the gypsies working the land in this part of
Andalusia.

The people love the horses seemed haberles expelled from the industry, which was his worldwide,
forcing them to seek life in the cottages.

Women were better than men: dry, black, angular, with masculine trousers
under the skirts, doblábanse the whole day to weed the wheat and starting
seeds.

A Sometimes, when not watching closely, apoderábase of them breed laziness, desire to remain motionless,
staring at the horizon without seeing anything or think about anything.

But so sensed the proximity of the overseer, ran the alarm at the slang that was his only force
strength, which isolated them from the hostility of colleagues.

- Cha, hustle, which sinela er jambo!

"Listen, working, watching the master!"

And each one gave his task, with zeal, with efforts so funny, often Rafael could not help laughing.

Had
closed the night. The dust fell like rain water on the stones of
the courtyard.

Salvatierra talked about going to the Gañanía, ignoring the protests of the overseer. But, really,
was hard to sleep there, a man of merit? ...

- You know where I come from, Rafael - said the revolutionary .-- I have eight years of sleeping
in worst sites and among people more unhappy.

The overseer made a gesture of resignation and called Zarandillo, who was on the block. The
old will serve as a passenger, he stayed there.

- I should enter the Gañanía, Don Fernando.

You have to keep some one of authority; if not, take one and trust is lost.

And speaking of that authority, with firm conviction, respecting it as necessary, after of having
violated many times in the rough adventures of his youth.

Salvatierra and old came out of the courtyard between the barking of dogs, following the outside
wall and came to a shed which gave entrance to the Gañanía.

Under that lined the outside several jars with water supply for the
braceros.

Those who felt thirsty, passing the stifling heat of chill Gañanía the night, and a dock that
looked like liquid ice water, the wind struck them sweaty backs.

Upon crossing the door, Salvatierra felt in his lungs the rarity of the air, while struck his smell
a stench of damp wool, rancid oil, clay and conglomerate, slimy flesh.

It was a long narrow piece, which seemed even bigger by the dense atmosphere and lack of light.
In the background was the home, which burned a fire of dried cow dung, firing a foul odor. A
candle flame as a mark his red and shimmering tear in this environment nebulous. The rest of the room,
completely dark, was in darkness palpitations of life. Guessed the presence of a crowd under
the shroud of shadows.

Salvatierra, to reach the center of the miserable room could see better. At home boiled monitored
several pots made by women on their knees, and sat under the lamp
the aerator, the second officer of the house, which accompanied the
laborers to cut and watched their tasks, exciting with tough words
which together with the overseer was what the government called the
farmhands farmhouse.

The herder was the only one who had a chair in the Gañanía, others, men and women would eat on the
ground. Beside him crouched Manolo Trebujena with friends, getting their spoons in hot soup
screw. The fog was dissipating in the eyes of Salvatierra, already accustomed to this atmosphere
stifling. Then he saw in the corner groups of men and women sitting in the packed earth or
rush mats. Rain, cutting its work by mid-afternoon, they had done to advance the evening meal.
About the bowls of hot slop, talking and laughing moving spoons with
some calm.

Sensed that the next day would be closure, forced idleness, and wished to remain awake late into the
night.

The appearance of the Gañanía crowding of people, evoked the memory of Salvatierra the memory
of the prison. They whitewashed walls, but here less white, smoked by the fuel vapor animal foul,
oozing fat by the continuous rubbing of unwashed bodies. Same hooks on the walls, and hanging
from them all the regalia of poverty, knapsacks, blankets, mattresses gutted, colorful blouses,
hats dirty shoes countless heavy patches with sharp nails.

In prison, each had a backpack, and the Gañanía only very few could afford this luxury. Most
were sleeping on mats, without undressing, resting his aching bones work on hard ground. Bread,
cruel divinity forced to accept the existence miserable, rolled in
pieces on the floor, or are exhibited in the hooks, among the rags,
in huge teleras six pounds, as an idol who could be reached only after
a curvature day overwhelming.

Salvatierra was fixed on the faces of those people who watched him with curiosity, suspending for an
instant food, still holding hands with the spoon in the air.

Under the hats were deformed only covers misery, suffering and masks hunger. Young people had
the vigorous freshness few years. Laughed reflecting their eyes mocking spirit of the race, the
joy of living, without the burden of a family rejoicing the isolated man, which is considered miserable,
you can always move forward. But men showed premature aging, broke into full maturity, the trembling
of valetudinarians, revealing about his aggressiveness in the eyes enlivened by flashes phosphorescent
fierce, cramped with the resignation other than just waiting for death the only freedom.

Bodies were dried, shriveled, annealed by the sun, cracked skin. Food, poor and weak, does not
become the slightest padding between the skeleton and its envelope. Men who had not yet forty
years, showed their emaciated necks, flabby skin and puffed, strained
tendons with aging.

The eyes, in the depths of basin, surrounded by an aura of wrinkles, shining like stars fading
in the background a well. Their physical misery was the result of prolonged fatigue and over
years, bland diet of bread, just bread. The bodies seemed carved rough and angular an ax, others
were deformed and grotesque as being produced by a potter, many remembered, so twisted and gnarled
trunks, wild olive trees in the pastures. The black arms, with the
sharp ridges of a forced gym, looked like twisted branches.

Y stacking of these unhappy exhaled a pungent odor of sweat of the hungry, clothing attached to
the body for months, fetid breath, every breath apestante of misery.

The women even offered a more painful.

Some were gypsies, old and ugly as witches, with tanned skin and copper appeared to have passed
through the fire of all Sabbaths. The girls were painful and senseless beauty of anemia, flowers withered
life that before opening; teens white skin, pale as paper masks,
which the sun I could not warm up, dyeing it at intervals with tiny
spots of color of bran.

Virgin eyes wide open, as if surprised to be born with blue lips the pale pink gums that reveals
the misery of the blood.

The sad and dull hair excited peeked under the handkerchief, keeping in tangles and grain chaff
ground. The chest was the most monotonous uniformity of the wilderness, so that breathing is
marked fabric under the slightest trace of the mounds seductive advance proud as a crest of
sex. Their hands were large and lean and bony arms and men. When
walking, moved about her skirts in a faint ease as if they only exist
within air, and sitting, the fabric marked angles without the faintest
hard roundness. Work, bestial fatigue, had stalled the development
of feminine grace. Only a few betrayed under their shell charms sex,
but there were very few.

Forced to endure the same hardships that
the male herd, only remembered that they were women when late at night,
dark and Gañanía, crammed into a corner were disturbed his sleep weary
load females by the boldness of the young men, that groped while the
old farmhands, cured of the illusion of life, snoring wildly as if
to sleep quicker to recover lost strength.

Salvatierra was at home
when he saw the crowd gate stood up offering his seat. Zarandillo
uncle sat on the floor next to Don Fernando, and he, looking around,
found Capers eyes and teeth gleaming horses smiling.

- Look your
honor, Sr.: This is my mom.

And he showed an old gypsy, Aunt Capers,
who had just stew off the heat chickpea by three little boys sniffed
ravenously, brothers of capers and a skinny girl, and large pale eyes,
was his cousin Mari-Cruz.

- "So your honor is that Don Fernando as
nombrao? - Said the old .-- Well, God give him a lot pa fortune and
a lot of life to be the stand of the probes.

Deposited on land and
the pot, sat with his family around him. It was a meal extraordinary.
The whiff of the beans provided some excitement in the Gañanía, making
converge many looks of envy in the group of Roma. Zarandillo had questions
for the old mockingly