 It is also very rocky and generally fertile,
mainly on the slopes of the hills near the mountains and the pinks, and yet how little the
natives cultivate the land for planting, collecting abundant crops, particularly of all kinds
of vegetables. Wheat, but not go as far as in Buenos Aires, yet they collect good harvests,
with usually ten to one. The rice grows well, and comes with plenty, the corn as well, and everything
is grown produce well. The same happens with other marketable fruit. Grass trees named the Paraguay,
are kept well in the same villages, and everyone has them some immediate yerbales who have planted
and cultivated, of which benefit every year for its spending, and send to Buenos Aires. These
natural to them is much easier and convenient to residents of Paraguay, yerba mate extract
of large tracts of wild grass, because, well to be not far from the mountains, they bring the
comfort of the rivers. The cotton breeds well and produces in abundance, cane sugar, although
not as general as in Paraguay, in some towns better crop in that province. Cocoa is not Comparison
of better quality that benefits in these villages in Paraguay. Indigo grows very lush, but
so far as is known, because there is no one who benefits. Sweet potatoes and cassava are the
main line for the food of these natives, and in so, how many seeds are thrown to the ground produce
in abundance, so that, if there stimulus to force men to apply to agriculture, would not be wanting
all year in many vegetable gardens are reflected in the other countries at various stations
year. The same goes for fruit, all fruit and fruit are grown well, particularly oranges and lemons,
which grow to an excessive corpulence. The vines are grown well, and give very good grapes, and
other times it has made some wine in the villages that have attempted, particularly in the village
of Cross, which it appears was done fairly and very good at the time of the ex-Jesuits. The livestock
of all species are preserved and multiplied very well, and, finally, by how many sides will look
at these areas will find the most fertile and better proportions to form a province of more
trader, and therefore if not richer, at least the most comfortable of the whole colony.

Paraná immediately in one and another band, near the towns of Candelaria and Santa Ana, there exquisite
copper mines, but even if they worked after the expulsion, were abandoned, because not enough
profits to cover the costs, and although it ensures that there of
mercury and other metals, I have not seen evidence that convinces
me of its existence.

There are also mines in many places far superior crystal, it breeds in the heart flint holes
of various sizes, and grow in my opinion. There are recessed the rocks around the inner circumference
as the grains of a pomegranate, but leaving hollow in the center, to which all end in a point
with various surfaces, so alike that it seems art that have been placed and carved. Some of these
stones are purple, so diaphanous and hard that I have no doubt they are fine amethysts, and it
is believed that, if in the places where are in the earth's surface look within, maybe they would
find some value.

Throughout the province there are quarries of stone buildings, very docile and great styling consistency
to stay. Of these quarries former Jesuits took some columns further four yards long, very solid
and very well surface, in some are Property stones of slate, consisting of several veins that
are very disjointed easily, forming slabs surface as well as style
them is not necessary.

On the porch the church of San Ignacio Mini are three of these slabs, the largest has more than
fifteen long and ten feet wide, and the other two are slightly lower. Another kind of stone
are very rough, but extremely easy to carve, and according to their weight and some signs
of vein it seems iron, and is the most commonly used in the walls of buildings.

The medicinal herbs found are many, the Indians used in their illnesses, giving them names in
their language, but the benefit of their knowledge can not be achieved Meanwhile usefully clever
is not intended to discover their strengths and determine their uses.

Of the items most needed conservation and comfort of men are only two in this province, who are
the salt and lime, the stock must first of Buenos Aires or Paraguay, and the second is supplied
to launder the churches and houses, with snails large charred, that is in the fields in great
abundance, and of them is exquisite cal, but it only reaches to bleach
and no more.

In this province are very few insects that annoy men. Fleas, bedbugs and lice are rare. Hardly see
any mosquitoes in the rooms, although the field there are several species of animals and bother
people.

The only trouble there in the villages is called the shafts, which are insects that are introduced
by the skin on the feet, then take their species increase and multiply prodigiously, but well
as the ease of extracting, in having a little toilet in the rooms are passed many months without
experiencing this inconvenience.

There are also many species of snakes, and some deadly poison, but not as many as they say, and
in villages rarely see any.

In the mountains and fields are bred tigers, leopards, foxes, elk
and ostriches, but they not usually bother the men.

There are also many special birds such as parrots, which there are many species, macaws, toucans
crows and white, the latter are the size of a dove, and long beak has a sesma rod, and two inches
in thickness; is also very abundant wood-pigeons, doves, ducks great and small, and many birds
small grocery.

The climate is so healthy that is just another one that is more, even
to outsiders; Only those who indulge in the vice of incontinence experienced
the ravages of venereal disease that the natives are quite touched,
even if they do not experience strong effects in Spanish, and although
in some seasons, particularly in the fall experienced intermittent
fevers, Chuccho called here, are so little malice if anyone dies for
lack of attendance.

Only smallpox and measles are the cause horrific damage, it is that they come in part from that,
spending many years not experienced these epidemics, they wrestle, as few people live that have
had, and soon the contagion spreads, who is not attending the sick, because fleeing all reported
to them, with not much to die almost all, with wonder some to escape the efforts of nature.
I sympathize with much of the misery suffer in sickness, and though I have tried to provide the
assistance that I have seemed appropriate for relief in all their ailments, I have not been
able to get as I wanted, because the patients are destined to consume the same by whose hand is
supplied, without having sufficient means few orders and I imagined for avoided.

In all this province and I have not seen news is no mad or insane, are rare the lame and flawed and
not experienced many chronic diseases.

This province is composed of people, all so similar to each other than seen are seen one other,
and although you have seen, I send the plane of the Candelaria and Conception so that you can
satisfy the curiosity of others. Their houses are of brick, with the exception of San Cosme
and Jesus, that most are made of straw.

The figure of the buildings or houses of the Indians is that of a barn from 50 to 60 yards
long and 10 wide, including runners who are in shape, are very low,
and each barn is divided into 8 or 10 divisions.

The churches are quite sumptuous and large, but irregular architecture and short-lived as corruptible
of the materials that are made of wood. The ornaments, sacred vessels, jewelry silver and gold that
are served, so many, and so precious few who can compete with the best cathedrals in America.
The main house, commonly referred to schools are very capable and comfortable, regularly located in
places of delicious view.

These are natural medium height and layout, the color is rather pale brown, particularly women,
which, notwithstanding all walking barefoot and almost naked, and be ordinarily girls occupied
for agricultural work, such as tents and other, admiring the small and well-formed feet and hands,
and readiness of their bodies. Are all regular skill and understanding as they apply; comprise
more by sight than by ear, any thing that puts them ahead, quite
perfectly imitate; but, more to be told what they see, do not succeed
with it.

They are so humble and obedient particularly the Spanish, which recognize superior, obeying blindly and
without consideration as they're told. Sloths are commonly taken on the grounds that it should compel
them to work rigorously not only for what is community, but also for what is proper to them.
They are also taken by skilled thieves, and in fact, less noticed this defect is not seeking
an opportunity, because that is presented not lost.

It's big tilt with the Indians to know, so that whenever they are given opportunity to instruct the advantage.
Everything that the Spanish are seeking execute imitate, and are intent in their ears when
the language is referred to some points of history, or they make some special relationship in
Europe, by referring them to each other with pleasure and admiration. But the pity is that they
have closed their doors to any instruction; they do not understand our language, and theirs
no one to give them notice of anything, but only of the most accurate of religion, they have
no books to learn, or anything looking, it is imperative that your
imagination is perpetually in inaction, and therefore live enveloped
in the darkness of ignorance.

It is also great in them the inclination to try and recruit continuously, changing a other things,
but having no knowledge of the true value of them, by chance verified treated equally, and
it happens very often the fool some of the Spanish few obligations to deal with them secretly,
without government or administrators can help it, because, though often makes them see the deception
they have suffered, there is no way to persuade them not to buy or sell for themselves, taking
on the decline The considered incapable of buying and selling. But some in the party have also
taken advantage others, it is not easy to be fooled, they know very
well give the estimate to possessions.

All of them are inclined to rule and long for any negligible employment and occupation that is,
and seeks to play as long as it lasts, and show plenty of emotion when out of time and for some reason
they have given, they are deprived of employment, holding it ebb and dishonor also feel insulting
words, and being in disgrace from which the commandments, so that in committing a sin, even
if the boys want then whipped, and not abuse them in words, to return to the grace of their superiors.
Is these circumstances to employ significant and persuasive eloquence, and take little that
lacks this privilege, but have other desirable, is far from shameful
pride and punctilious, but lack of education and ideas know no right
use of these virtues.

They are not used in trades dishonor the vile, even those just finding employment more honorifics,
they do not know or distinguish the noble from the one nor the ruin of the other. Nor is dishonor
which flogged every day, it is that, if this comes out, also very rare which is not considered
dishonorable. Incontinence in women, unmarried as married, viewed with indifference, even husbands
stop them little consideration in that, and so women are given the appetite of men, particularly
if they are Spanish or Mandarin, with little reluctance and blind obedience, such is the disposition
of his mind to obey all those who consider themselves superior. These natives are inclined,
like all Indians, the intoxication, but not practice, because they have no proportions for this, and
because it punishes who is drunk, if any falls into this habit is because of some inconsiderate Spanish,
for gifts that give them drink. They are also very fond of music, whose period apply without being
compelled, and so in every town there are plenty of musicians drums and all are very loud instrument
of your choice, and so accompany them for everything. No task not intended to three or four drums
that are touching each other so much work, and known faint when they play them while fishing. They
are very patient in all the work, just hear them complain, even when rigorously the strike,
not when are injured by some oversight of a big hit in the mills or tasks. The same is true in their
diseases, acute and intense pain may be your only because they are known they say when asked,
or because the nature of evil are inseparable some signs of feeling, but they suffer from
a constancy and serenity that he admires. I I spent much time visiting the sick, and during these
visits, and at times accompanied the Blessed Sacrament when given for travel, I've never seen a single
patient or restless; always fixed in the hammock or cot on a leather bed that is regularly
appear dead, according to the stillness that remains, only know they are alive by the movement
eyes, or what they respond when asked, they stay until they die or heal.

At home are treated with great indecency and filth; regularly go naked parents and mothers before
the children even as adults, and these same before his parents, and not as only a family but
also other living within a single room, they are likely to live long together. This seems to
do because it found a convenience, with one stove for simmering the food, heat and lighting,
and even join their meats and eat together, and as all this is done within housing in attending,
have it so filthy, black, full of smoke and stench, which is repugnant to enter them, and contributes
greatly to their filth and despair.

The Indians treated their wives regularly, and have as much below them, and require all kinds of work
as well in their fields in tillage and weeding, and in its yarn houses and bring them everything
they need for food and arrange it, apologizing As they are working
and carrying the women, which not infrequently abuse inhumanely, supposing
it is lawful and can do, and it is rare that the woman complains,
even knowing that justice punishes those who behave well.

Parents care little or nothing about the education of children, or their food and clothes, because
everything has to care for the community, who employs his pleasure where and under I think, since
they are able to do something, nor yearn for purchasing goods leave their children, have no
idea what is heredity, or even the current ownership of things because the custom of removing them,
and leave others to see them go to where the common destinations makes them look at them with
indifference and leave them without regret.

Resist with remarkable consistency work and hunger, often passing the whole day working, without
having had breakfast and without showing weakness, but you admire what they eat when they have
it. The dress regular in women is a kind of cotton canvas bag, which they call tipoy without
sleeves and neck, but only a few stitches on one of their mouths that fit the body; others
are in the same way a long shirt to a dawn that is more decent, though and this is much improved.

These
are very loving nature to the King, and very obedient to all that
are commanded in real name, in the commune councils and explained
how to persuade others to do what to tell you that it is commanded
by God and King.

When one comes to ask any grace or justice, its introduction is: "God and the King has commanded
for us as amparéis the poor wretches who we are, and so on his real name I pray, etc.. " And so
are explained in all its arguments, always bringing together of God and King.

Similarly the Spanish love and live well convinced that the need to have what them, thinking that
if the homeless would perish, and marvel that we leave our homes, relatives and friends just to come
(as they say) to do the will of God and King for their benefit.

These people, from its reduction, have been maintained and kept in community, and although this
method of government would serve the principles, then it has served, in my opinion, but to impede
the progress of police and civilians, that would remain the same, in the meantime government does
not move, giving freely to the Indians as nature dictates.

But before attempting this will be good to give you an idea of ??what this community was time
that the Jesuits established, and what is at present since his expulsion, with the precise
consequences that follow from it.