 

Despite hurting his spirit travel that perspective, with the consequent discomfort, the much spending,
asking for free tickets and other chinchorrerías, D. Francisco was so happy joy overflowed him
on the lips, and could not be quiet for a minute. "In As soon as I get well, I will undertake
carpentry work. I'll make you a cupboard for clothes, so good and so famous, that people asked
to view the ballot, as history Natural, and stables. The lessee of the short Balsaín gives me much
pine I do want ... In the basement of this house is a repository of mahogany that are rotting,
and His Majesty will allow me to take a little piece ... The contractor's pantheon of Birth Escorial
has offered me all the marble you want. I'll make a cabinet with marble ... I say a pantheon
for clothes ... no, I will make a great sink and a console ... And I'll Candidita to also
make furniture ... I'm such a tool which ... But I will try others ... or I paid the contractor
for the works of La Granja ...». Speaking of which, put your spoon the widow, the artist said
that she could provide for their work styles sumptuous and elegant. He inlaid console himself that
belonged to Grimaldi, and a wardrobe brought from Paris by the Ursinos. As the workshop D. Francis
needed, easier it would get from His Majesty ceded a place of many who were uninhabited and empty
on the third floor. Just beside the oratory was a large room with excellent lights, once the dovecote,
which would be better not made purposely for that object. With both rubbed his hands briskly Bringas,
certainly lacked that little spark for them. "We're fine, fine. See me and see all my work ...
"was what he said endlessly.

Needless to say I think Rosalie was also very happy.

Beloved husband regain his health, the hearing, which is the best part of it and life, and return
to play in that house his paternal sovereign functions. But as any that is complete in this loathsome
world, successful events but have to always carry their projection sad, as they have bodies all
his shadow, that Brinker had the pleasure of one side by a dark unpleasant. Was that in that region
of his mind lay the memory of the chandeliers Forced engaged and committed to redeem before Bringas
his sight and, her watchful watching, observing intrusive, relentless curiosity, police, mousy.
Surely, if the happy day arrived and the chandeliers were not on the console or screws in the
beautiful ears of the lady, the first thing that lynx would notary lack of these things ...
Horror was the thought! ... See where to happiness itself engendered a stinging pain in such
a way that the unhappy lady was in a sick painful perplexity. The expressed saying that perhaps
would be glad to not be so happy.

The impatience and vivacity of Bringas manifested in a fever of domestic
intervention, in management such as delirium, watching without seeing
and directing all the same as if seen.

Not a minute left to enact miscellaneous provisions, and he himself answered questions I was doing.
His wife is fair to say, my head was so crazy chatterbox.

XXVI

"Daughter, hear what I say ... If we are going to order those convicted bathrooms, you deal with
the dresses you have. The silent changes, you take away one thing to put it another ... and as
new. All I will say that Worth has sent them. Do not think, so do to the duchess ... I expect that
His Majesty will put two little letters to the leader of the movement to give us tickets Free for
all ... Another thing: if you're taking your position and what you can do, you can get that
the Lord ordered the Administration to give two months' pay me the month of July ... And why
not July and August? You know everything will be done, and talk about our trip to grieve and say
that we can not for lack of ... This depends on the hardening lame beneficial, and easy will, it
almost always is in that temple ... I leave it to your skill ... Children do not need dresses
... If anything some guy hat ... Do not do anything until I see it. Can you spend a very striking
and make sense, with baskets on their heads that make them chyle sweat. I will get the jipijapa
that Augustine left forgotten, and my levisac of nap, which I did six years ago, and my denim
dress that always looks brand new ... such strain. I'll give us a car booked to take food, stove that
making chocolate, a mattress, pillows, water jug ??and some other useful thing ... Finally, we
will travel as possible. "

Tarabilla continues: "What is that noise I've ever felt? What have I broken? Since I do not see
I keep track of the plates and cups that I have felt down, not down a dozen and a half. When See,
my God, I find the house made a shame. Do not tell me no. I think that I see the mess of everything
and a thousand useless expenses. I can not explain the huge consumption of oil, now I do not
need light. And Prudence, are you making good account? Bet that no. With that of the master does
not see, all is confusion. Lemons say that twenty-four reals. But thou hast commanded to bring
here all the orchards of Valencia? For if the drugs cost us money would have to beg. Anyway,
I put me well, and everything will be fine. I think that since I have not done so many things
I have ordered ... And, as the master does not see ... Bring meat or skirt, and I never heard
from again Mr. Pickled wheel which is a fixed dish sir, or I was told if the macaroons are still
coming in to room for dessert ... In the distribution of time is not what will be done. Say
no can be in everything, and I wonder why that has not cleaning cutlery Paquito when it comes
to the class. What then? A sir detract from this? For his father has done and will do when his
sight ... I am also sure that you do not remove children's shoes when they come from school
and put the old ones. In the noise I know that walking footsteps running around with out shoes
on the street. Well might habérsete bring a alpargatitas occurred, which this time are the
best ... But I see, I see, and everything will return to that tolerance-tolerance without which
we can not live ... And I figure that Prudence lava not all it should. It will not be for
lack of soap, which has spent more than necessary in these days when I've moved so rarely, without
the use of collars or cuffs ... Bet that when taken Candidita coffee, have not you done it the previous
day, but you've cast again. By bouncing whiff I have known. Well, well, to promote services; for
that we are. "

The chant did not sound good to the ears of Rosalia, and less time.

Was again all things the state they were before, and to obey the lengthy time rules that flowed
endlessly inexhaustible source of domestic law. Brought boys' sandals, and Bringas not already
ruled that school because excessive heat I was bad, and the holiday, about being an economy,
it was very hygienic. They thanked much, and all day it went running and playing in the corridors
with large denim robes, or they went to the third floor for other children and Irene. Were happiest
beings in the house, almost as much as the birds that nest in the hollows of architecture
and wrap around the imposing edifice in an atmosphere of lullabies.

In those days, had a visit, that caused surprise both of husbands
and a sense something far from satisfaction.

A person whose name they did not want to remember, Refugio Sánchez Emperor, presented himself at
home, when least expected. Sorely embarrassed by which believed that masked a brash Rosalia
to switch, even a moment with decent people. Soon said the reason for your visit. Her sister
had Amparo letter from Bordeaux ... Alas, too sore by the illness of D. Francisco ... "He says
since I knew not think of anything else. " He was immediately commissioned to visit the lords,
to know of how she was sick, and I wrote a post back. Wanted heard from him two or three times
a week at least ... D. Augustine was also carefully and desiring to hear the news ...

Bringas was very grateful, and both urged their improvement, which had to believe Refuge just had
that huge fad band.

"Tell them I'm fine and thank you much attention ...». Rosalie felt like saying to fresh four
who had the audacity to desecrate the honorable entering her house, but he kept his composure
D. Francisco and good manners of the girl's contained. He could not, however, save Social formulas
with it, and just waved, without shaking hands. While the girl was talking to Bringas, the
Pipaón de la Barca was in and out as if such a visit was not at home. Looking at it to pass, had to
notice something that decreased their antipathies. It was the restraint and showing seriousness,
things were not good measures reasonable and said, was her dress it was swish, new, beautifully
cut, made and decorated. Rosalie looked at sideways and could not of amazement from that of
a goat hair so original and beautiful color, decentísimo and appearance of the young, well-gloved
and better road. "It graciosilla" - said for himself, and was left wanting to ask where he had
bought the goat hair ... Perhaps Amparito had commanded him to Bordeaux. After wearing a pin chest
... so chic! How you were the eyes behind him Rosalie! ".

"What do you do you?" - Asked D. Francisco back to her face, as if the could see through the black
band.

- Do I Sánchez ?...-- replied a little embarrassed at first, but recovering
with the highest resiliency -.

So, now not working. I'm a little sensitive, I have chest pain, sometimes I trouble breathing
and spent some sleepless nights. You know, since I sleep, seems to make me a stone here ...
My sister tells me I need to pass themselves with facility and rest. I live with a very decent
lady, I love him. I live a very removal ... Well as I was saying to you, my sister wants me to take on something.
As no I can work or machine needle, Amparo is determined to put an establishment fashion, and
to begin sent me a huge box of hats, fichus, brimmed hats, ties, Bow-Tie, camisetitas ... treasures.
Madrid have not ever seen so much new stuff and good taste. I also received a straw and cloth
caps, ribbons of all kinds, feathers, marabou, egret, plumes, Amazons, touches, pinions, hummingbirds,
esprís, and how God created. I doing tests to see how I compose ... I've searched some parishioners
of greatness and have been to my house many ladies ... Delighted all I have. I sent to a little cards
...

Saying it, took out one to give it to Rosalie, who with evil took smoothing frown, deigning to
grace the girl with a benevolent smile, the first seen Refuge disparaging
those lips.

And while the youngest still more expensive the workmanship callipygian of that industry in which
they had been, the Bringas oíala with some interest, forgiving perhaps the contempt of the
person by the sublimity of the matter was. As the Spirit Holy down to the lips of the repentant
sinner, can sanctify this, Shelter, the eyes of his illustrious relative, is redeemed by the
divinity of his speech.

'With that modito? - Said D. Francisco jest -. Nice business!

Look at those monkeys that will you give your parishioners! This luxury is in inverse ratio
of money to pay. Much eye, girl ... It seems to me that if your sister does not send you to live
on, what's with you eat the rag again elbows hungry ... And you come to us to be snapped up
for your parishioners? Girl, by God, play and play at another door ... Your industry is the
ruin of families and the novitiate of San Bernardino. But I wish you good luck, and I recommend
have no guts, if you defend yourself from misery. Hard on them! For what it's worth twelve
takes forty, and so the excess of pay to cover the lack of more than get quarter ... Oh how funny
!...».

A good laugh while it lasted, which was attended by all those present, even the lady who had
the incredible kindness of accompanying Refuge to the door, and give some pleasantries.

XXVII

"Do not you wonder if they have married?" - Rosalie said her
husband, when he rushed next to it.

- I had the word in the mouth
more than once to ask, but I did not dare, for fear to tell me no,
and I take a berrinchín.

- I had to restrain myself to not put it
on the street - said the lady doing enough to appear possessed of
a holy rage, legitimate son of a sense of dignity -.

Is metérsenos audacity to come here and stupid with messages of good piece of your sister ... other
such.

Nor does it matter that Amparo is interested or not for us! ... As the feelings Augustine also
make me grace ... A people for whom the Catechism is like the specifications
of doggerel ... I was blown hearing it.

I do not know how you had the patience to withstand such litany of lies and nonsense ... And now he
goes to sell news ... What crap are those! I assure you I was a mess ...

The entry of Mr de Pez cut the number of observations that had undoubtedly illustrate the matter.
Soon after, Bringas, who never tired of giving orders, provided that there hereinafter eat
at one or one and a half, Spanish style, dining at nine night. This was not only more comfortable
at the station heat, but cheaper, because they spent less coal. Dinner must be light thing.
My man recommended lentils, beans chard and peas, though they were
black broth, garlic soup, and abstinence from meat at night.

This plan was no more inconvenient than having to add to their stomachs, afternoon, the weight
of a Chocolatito, whose charge, by the fact of having stuck Dona Candida family like a leech,
it was point less than unbearable. Truth is God was always in aid of Thiers, for Dona Tula,
in summer the same system adopted meals each evening was a delicious chocolate and almost always
sent to a sick person gourd, well guarded by mojicón and biscuits.

"This Dona Tula - Bringas said when the maid was entering his neighbor - is a person very attentive
...».

Rosalie went to the house of Doña Tula, rarely missing the chocolate Pez six and a half .. There
were other highly skilled people in the city, as the sister the mayor, a man chaplain at times,
the second official stewardship, the inspector Usually the doctor
and others.

Miracles do not ever put your feet in the house of his sister, because some time ago which were
not treated.

Speaking of the Marchioness, used to designate Dona Tula with some reluctance, but without
going over here. Mary was almost always, and everyone loved with it, mimándola. La de Bringas
was there public display of her dress and Candida mozambique wore his black grosgrain, only
kept in good condition. Be idle to say that being found Mr. Fish present, no other mortal would
dare to lift the rooster in a conversation policy or on any matter of substance. For my part
I confess that the manner of speaking of that man as guapín and words as well measures, exercised
not know what narcotic action on my nerves. The same thing was to get him to explain why their
result with moderate party, I thought that a fresh henbane is poured into my brain, and the couch
Dona Tula, stroking their arms warm, invited me to take a nap. Courtesy, however, obligábame to fight
the damn dream, which was a similar state the doctors call coma vigil, a view without seeing a
ghost image transition, a hearing without hearing, and tinnitus are mixed. The quaint room that
was half the heat closed and in the shade, the filtered light coming through the transparent
fabric, lighting with the enormous tropical flowers coloring these, the bass tone that faded
tapestry had all the things in this sleepy cavity, the slight hoarseness Dona Candida and yawning,
discreetly covered with the palm of the hand, the beauty of Mary Sudre not seem to belong in this
world, the mozambique pintitas Rosalia with that dizzy the eye, and finally the slow sound of
the rocking and the fans chis chas five or six ladies were so many agents lethargic in my brain.
As the sequins glittered Some fans and flashed the concepts one by one ... Summer is anticipated
that year and would be very cruel ... The generals had come to the Canaries ... Prim was in
Vichy ... The Queen would go to the farm and then Lequeitio ... It began to take something picked
tails, bath and queues were already banned ... González Bravo was sick to your stomach ...
Cabrera had gone to see the smooth Child ...

Recently highlighted the voice of Fish, in a tone closely related to his golden mustache equality
that seemed artificial hair, and growing the narcotic effect ... The so- I could not see without
bitter sorrow the situation that things had come about because and others ... The revolution
with its all or nothing and moderates with his non possumus put the country the edge of the slope
at the edge of the abyss, the precipice. There was the good lord disappointed, and do not
believe there was no remedy for evil.

This was a land of destruction, a country of adventure, a country divided between the conspiracy
and resistance. So could not no progress or advancement, or improvement, nor administration.
He was always saying: "More government, more government" but was preaching in the desert. All
services public were in their infancy. Fish was an ideal organizer stroked his mind, but what
how to do it? His ideal was to ride a perfect administrative system, with eighty or ninety DGs.
That there was any manifestation of national life that escape the wise guidance of the State.
That would run all right. The country did not think the country did not act, the country was
an idiot. It was therefore necessary that the State should think and work for him, because only State
was smart. As this could not be done, Pez was reflected in his spirit always sad and concerned
that sovereign indifference of all things. We felt superior his contemporaries, at least looked
more, something better discerned, and as he could not take to reality, hence their phlegmatic
calm. Mentally comforting stroking his principles, amid the general confusion. To watch in fantasy
the regeneration of Spain, eyes from the corruption of morals, of that contempt of all laws
which was rife ... Oh, happy fish will be assessed with the deposit of principles that had in
your body. She loved the pure moral rectitude inflexible, and his conscience was indemnified
of the outrages he saw everywhere ... Would to God that this ideal should not depart from its
soul ... So he was not vanish at the touch of such rascals, like God ...

I do not know the time that no deviation between that second and a discreet tap like me Dona
Candida resulted in the knee ...

"Are you distracted?" - He said.

- No, no, Slovakia, lady ... I was listening to Don Manuel, who ...

- If D. Manuel has come out to the terrace.

Serafinita Lantigua is telling the death of her husband.

I am horrified ...

- Oh, me too ... horripiladísimo.

XXVIII

Indolent wandered the terrace, as if they were long, Fish, Rosalie and sister of the mayor. This
was the home of the sommelier, and the elegant couple was left alone ... D. Poor Manuel was truly
pitiful. Religious monomania and his wife came to so annoying end could not bear it ... "What
do you think?, I hear both Serafinita incocoraba the story, so old and resobado of their hardships,
I was hoping to run away ... That Canturri voice choir and those sighs of funeral my nerves
... I I am religious and believe that the Church commands, but these people who sleep with
God God rises and I feel in my stomach. Serafinita That is what has brains sucked my poor Carolina,
is the author of my misery and loathing I have my own home ... Oh, my dear, you do not know
what the disease is so sad the horror of home ... Fortunately you do not know ... I would be
gone all day, and apparently there ... Insensibly get used to regard as home ownership the my
friend's house, and not a moment I thought the comparison is between the heat friendly of dry cold
here and there ... I am a man who can not live without love. It gives me as necessary as air.
Without it choking me, I die. Where I find, my store har And there I was ...».

Isabelita and Alfonsin ran past. Iban suffocation, sweaty, so much had struggled on the third floor
gallery with Irene and the girls from the chef. "Child, how are you !...-- said Rosalia, arresting the
girl -. Your face is like a cooked crab ... Now run air ... Get home, do not constipated ... And
this rogue ...? Do you see how it comes?, All broken and made an Adam. Look what your knees ...
If you put an iron suit as well as break ...».

"How funny barbie!

Skin is the devil ... This will be a man "- said kissing fish, and
also kissing the girl.

- Dame rooms - said little cheeky.

- Do you
see what rascal?

... Boy! ... What is it? ... Pay no attention. Has a bad habit ask for rooms to everyone. I do not
know where to have learned such tricks. It's a laugh ... A Later I took them they saw His Majesty
... I have not spent more embarrassment in my life! There was no way to make them speak a word
of a sudden, this rascal is planted, look at Queen with the most shameful thing in the world
and extending their manocita ... "Give me quarters'. His Majesty laughed.

- Well, sir early, making rooms.

- What do you do? If they want to buy crap ... This fool does not ask, but when they are given
the shot. Do not think that is spendthrift.

Quia!

Everything is saved in his piggy bank and already has a capital. This leaves ...

- Sale Dad ...

- Wow, a home that you enfriáis here ... I sweat,
my child ... Here I go away.

Four jumps were on the door step Cáceres,
and there they went to home. Fish gave a sigh