 And so it happened. Three days was the open gap without being seen by the owner farm
and a further four 'Pedric "he fruitlessly for him to take up before it biting beasts to that
gate and ended up with the "poverty" of the fence ... until passing the "moriu" weeks in that state
"bichornosu 'he had resolved to close the gap. Why was this "one", and I could not help it. Not in
all cases less than that the interest that was taken by the alien, but she always gave in his
face and got into big care carelessness of others. I knew him when I had come to Tablanca and
life I had done since then. She loved me attached to the land and the house of my grandparents.
Chisco was a good companion to walk where I walked with him Pito also Salces, but not as "ama침au"
as the other "pa the AUTU of rozasi with finus gentlemen." If Chisco out of Tablanca as was Robacio,
there is nothing to ask. Still yet, faithful, honest and serving workers as it was and where
he served, no parent of that place was in "josticia of law ", close the door of his house.
Then there were those who, if not properly closed, either is the opening of goodwill. Topics men.
The girl was nice, and some goods had inherit in their day, but was not "to each Callejues regolver"
a good man flow was a "per with himself." Well she knew him, so looking at Chisco with good eyes,
but it was a very different looking from his father, and he understood. The mother was on the
road different than her husband, and snuggled closer to those of the daughter ... In addition and
settlement, and what Don Celso fix, if the thing was good for everyone. But what "amejao"
my father I found it! She had known him a little more than "mozucu" because Don John Antonio
I would, if alive, at the foot of ten years. He had left the place without having Hair beard
yet, then again, "mozall칩n arroganti Jechu a" but "come out here and Aya, as he says otru that.
" "We pulled it mundanu Muchu Jacia had big bucks apa침au through the land of God and the woman
who waited to marry him. Had become to be alone "the mayoralgu" he never wanted to destroy
out of Tablanca. "Although it was not mujeriegu of by suyu ", loneliness and other penalties
had been forced to marry well. Married Well, that yes, "Lifetime Bejo Rock!" with the best of Ca칩rnica,
home of the Pine: Dona Candida Sanchez del Pinar.