 I will, therefore, breaks the narrative with explanations and comments interspersed
that he has done. Not otherwise be understood.

The story is relatively modern, for, as my friend, have yet to discover legends and stories in
Proto-Iberian, oldest and most venerable Egyptian poem Pentaur about a feat or Rans Sesostris
II, and that the poems found by our known Mr. Layard diplomat in the library of Ashurbanipal in
Nineveh archaic poems and eight centuries BC, and translated most of the sacred language of the
Akkadians, then so dead like Latin with us now.

And this should not wonder, because according Roisel at The Atlantis, all culture comes from
these, before been in Chaldea, Assyria, in Egypt or at any point of the East.

It is unfortunate that we still have no documents of the Golden Age or Golden Age of Atlantic Parisian
literature of place some eight thousand years, or the emanation of that bética culture, implemented
by the banks of the Guadalquivir turdetanos.

The document found, deciphered, explained and commented by Don Juan
Fresco is relatively time fresh, as it were of yesterday morning.

Iberian and indigenous culture had declined and Spain were full of
even Phoenician and Greek colonies.

Those had already founded Zazinto Sagunto, and for over a century they founded the Tyre to
Malaga, Abdera, Hispalis and Gades. It was for the years 1000, BC vulgar, on more or less.

II

Vescio
was an important city of the Confederation of Turduli. At the time we mean, the vescianos already
had the same quality as the day their descendants have been dictation bermejinos valid: almost all
were blond and some candles. Stood out among all as fair as well as handsome and dashing, elegant
and noble young man Mutileder. Sling shot and killed extraordinary ability to planes passing
stones flying, riding on horseback, drove a car like few war, he knew by heart best verses composed
turdetanos and also very regular, with a club in the powerful was a tremendous right hand man,
with women was sweeter than a arropía and more without gall a dove, ran like a deer, fighting tooth
and nail as bears, and had another crowd of clothes that were recommended. You can almost ensure
that his only fault was being poor.

Mutileder, lost his father and mother, had no urban land and rustic,
lived as love staying with his uncles, and Vescio did not know what
used to make a living.

Was a man, as they say, without a job or benefit.

And was bordering on twenty-four, and tired of this life, and longing
to see the world, called blessing to his uncles, who were accompanied
by some the money, and also taking weapons and horse, Vescio left
to seek adventure and how to improve the condition.

As Mutileder presence was so beautiful, and it was also nice and happy, everywhere was very pleasing.
The bells sugetos of fancy and he was invited to dances and parties and the funniest ladies and haughty
eyes put her love, but he was good, prudish and simpleton, and took
out anything useful from this.

The money they gave him his uncles was consumed, and no new money came to replace him.

Thus, stopping in different populations, for example, Igábron, passing then Síngilis today Genil,
entering the land of the turdetanos, and also stopping Ventipo, came to a place of Bastulos
Aratispi was then called, and I suspect he be the Alora of our time, as famous for their games
plains. There was Mutileder a cousin who was a sun of beauty, with
eighteen years of age, and fairer than he, if fits. This premium is
called Echeloría. His father, widowed and very wealthy, the idolized