 

Has been a cause of its decline the continuous raids or huts (as we call here) of Mamalucos of
Brazil, Paraguay and crossing the river by large dams in these miserable, reduced to nothing
to these people. And as many times shall I write the wickedness of these people, not outside
of them attempt to give here a brief news.

The valiant Portuguese nation had founded many colonies in the Mediterranean parts Brazil, one
of them was Piratininnga, or as others say, San Pablo. Its inhabitants, by lack of European
women, mixed their blood with the unholy noble barbarians, better said he spotted him, for
the children, leaving them more like mothers to the fathers, soon degenerated so embarrassed and
runs the neighboring cities, resigned their friendship, and because the vileness of these are
not even slightly empañare candor generosity Lusitanian name in the world, called Mamalucos. Mantuviéronse
much devotion they God and his prince by the admirable zeal of P. Joseph Ancheta and his companions,
who founded College there, until he tired of living adjusted to the dictates of conscience, and losing
fear to the laws, to cast our Fathers and threw off the yoke of both majesties divine and so human,
that obey the King of Portugal when they were good, and God, when the need was extreme.

To these were joined together large numbers of men lost, Italian,
Spanish, Dutch and dregs of all nations, to escape the deserved punishment
for their crimes, or to giving free living to all kinds of vices and
dishonesty, and the ugly corrupted and malignant impressions of modern
heretics, to increase the number and the pride of the inhabitants
and residents of San Pablo.

And indeed, the site of the city, the climate of the earth, all was well adapted to genius depraved
and brutal life. It is founded some thirteen miles from the ocean on a cliff that are everywhere around
cliffs that are inaccessible input, if not by a narrow path, which
may prevent very few men at the foot of the mountain there some villages
to serve the Governor, of strangers and merchants, to whom not allowed
to pass below, the weather is templadísimo to be in twenty-four degrees
between the two torrid and temperate zones, and air so pure and healthy
that makes him one of the more enjoyable and delicious these West
Indian countries.

Land, and for the benefit of nature and art by industry produces everything needed to spend your
life with comfort, abundant wheat, livestock, sugar and other flavorings it can provide to
the surrounding land with plenty, and they lack either rich minerals gold and other metals. Free
because of all the natural law of this city, occurred discourse by the outline, making slaves
of the Indians in large crowds, stealing their property; and seeing that there had been any punishment
on them, but published only a few prohibitions and edicts have been
obeyed, have continued for one hundred and thirty years his infamous
robberies, which were of two million people known to have destroyed
or reduced miserable slavery to have been depopulated some Spanish
cities and over a thousand miles ground to the Marañón, our province
is experiencing the fury of their first throw in the destruction of
fourteen reductions that had been founded with amazing works and sweating
in the nation of the Guarani, who number about five hundred thousand
had reduced to the bosom of our holy faith.

Truth is that many companies do not enjoy one hundred parts, for the most part, consumed of work
and inconvenience of the road to San Pablo, died before arriving, and other employees in the
work of the mines or in the cultivation of fields, with little support and many blows and bad treatment,
not being on the other hand used to working in quickly consumed and annihilated, and royal know
I've seen, that three hundred thousand Indians enthralled in the space of five years, Brazil
came to rescue more than twenty thousand. Nor was it only the damage we have caused these cruel
men, the worst is making us loathsome and abhorrent to all nations, using the same traces and
industries that use and rely our Missionaries to reduce Gentile knowledge of the true God and
to the observance of His holy law. Pretend, then, these Mamalucos who are Jesuits, using the
name of the Father, venerable name and considers much to all people, even the unbelievers
make one subject, other than, and even provincial, and in broken
Spanish suffered by the year 1696 was made a prisoner named John Rodriguez,
who added the title of Payguazú that Guaraní is the same as Father
Grande.

Then, waving crosses and showing pictures of Christ Our Lord and His Blessed Mother, come into
the land, touching people with gifts and witchcraft, persuading leave their native soil and
its poor Ranchos to found a large reduction, together with other people, and when and are
insured to get into prison chiefs and principal ahead and take the mob.

This infernal cunning suspect has made us fully to these nations, and often take risks in life
and spoil our business, as has happened in travel the river Paraguay, in which no infidel is
to trust us.

But our Lord does not leave unpunished, even in this life, evil so great, because most are bad
deaths, and the worst is that rare is that they will repent and ask forgiveness of his sins
and wickedness, because they are drawn from despair and go to hell
and no subject of ours, an eyewitness, who said that in the year aforesaid
broken 1696, none of those who died in the camp or drowned in the
river, called confession and gave sign of repentance.

But despite these Mamalucos, and by fraud, fire hydrants already have done so horrendous havoc
in these countries, unable to resist with their weak and skinny arms sometimes, in many reunions,
is back with his hands on his head, and has been subjected his pride
for the Indians, because they, once arrested for beating to death
or have been ported with such courage and effort, and in ambushes,
and open campaigning, face to face has expired pride enemy prisoners
leaving the prison who wanted to take the Indians.

CHAPTER IV

Da principle P. Joseph de Arce to the new Church of the Chiquitos, overcome many difficulties.

Entered,
then, since the year 1691 passed the Father Provincial of the province, Gregorio Orozco, to visit
the College of Tarija to go there to land and test the Chiriguanos , at least for some little
time the hardships that his subjects had to tolerate after for years and found in one of many
hazards that after they had to live continuously.

Here he received letters from the governor of Santa Cruz de la Sierra and pleas from P. Arce,
since Tarichea had come to send fire more closely to both business service God and the good
of souls, in hope that one day have the fortune of water with sweats this new field and shed on it,
finally, blood, preaching the faith.

Provincial puzzled found himself in the resolution that would, for
the zeal of health souls persuaded him to embrace the same time many
companies and give principle, the it were possible, to new works for
the expansion of faith, on the other hand, saw the largest shortages
of workers who had and that they could hardly keep the old missions,
the undertake more new ones.

Weighing therefore carefully and maturely these reasons, it seemed that the former not only counterbalanced,
but prevailed during the second waiting on God to provide for missionaries, and in fact happened
since that year came to Buenos Aires forty-four subject of the Company that will much matter to
the history of this province, and despatched from Spain P. Attorney of this province, Francisco Altamirano
Diego, in charge of P. Antonio Parra, who was coming top of all.

With this, the P. Ordered Orozco P. Arce was looking for the source of the Paraguay River exploring
in the meantime the will of the Chiquitos and other nations that
are disposed to receive Holy Baptism, and along the shore of that
river hopes for parents Constantino Diaz, a native of Ruins, Sardinia,
Juan María Pompey, of Benevento, in the kingdom Naples, Diego Claret,
Namur, in the Gallo-Belgium; Juan Bautista Neuman, of Vienna, Austria;
Enrique Cordula, Prague, in Bohemia, Felipe Suarez of Almagro in La
Mancha, Pedro Lascamburu, superior to all of Irun, in Guipuzcoa, all
of them, leaving the Guarani missions, begun on the water the way
to the lake for Xarayes be their partners in the conversion of those
peoples.

Alegre the holy man with possession of so much happiness, as being worthy of a designated Mission
without losing time point, we started from Tarija with the brother Antonio Rivas, and arrived
at Santa Cruz de la Sierra, was rigged and to move forward in their
defeat, when the hell that much interested in who conceived his plan,
he stood up against a whirlwind of persecution so fierce, if I had
not found a heart and as apostolic zeal, had enough to contrast fully:
because having happened another governor, Don Augustine Arce, moved
things took a different face and color, and knowing his intentions,
sought from his purpose with as many reasons and authority could,
saying was that a company that would not happily suffer more fatigue
than to get it, that being the Chiquitos, as they say, very barbaric
and brutal, how was able to hold grade the yoke of Christ and his
depraved ways to curb the narrowness of the Evangelical Law, if they
ever want to apply to any of the many idolatries of the confining
to be very satisfied with the dissolution of its procedures?

How could he make love of God and neighbor in hearts lacking, even from what nature gives to the beasts
more cruel and savage? That was a lot of their animosity, if it was not covered with heat rash,
throw in wanting to die, at least you were wrong, to be sold barbarously, that no was relying on
the willingness of those savages had shown to be Christians, for all did he neglect to leave the Spanish,
and catching them unawares, stealing the estates with insults. And when those are not reasons
to abandon the Maars company, notices and knew that the weather was
extremely harmful to the complexion of strangers and almost every
year suffering from infection those people, not to forgive him.

That therefore straighten their designs to another harvest and choose another field that accounts
for fruit crop with more worthy of their labors.

With these and other arguments of this ilk tried many gentlemen (I should say the same hell) off
the burning charity which burned in the bosom of the Father Joseph, but seeing no profit,
tried another machine more formidable. This was the interest, the only transmission of things
done, or that have to do for God.

He had formed long before a company (let's call it that) of European
merchants made Indian fair, and bought so cheap that a woman with
her son, was as good as between us is worth a sheep with her lamb.

They entered in the Indian lands surrounding and within a short time were large dam slave, and when
they were not enough, under the pretext of avenging any injury received, giving suddenly on
the past and sword Rancherías people who could bear arms, or if not burned alive inside their homes,
took captive the mob, and sold in Peru of expensive goods, with which a year riding the gain
many thousands of crowns.

Wearing poorly piety of the Spanish who had just greed destroyed and those people infamous and the
good name of the nation, and felt no less faith that such evils theirs the most abominable hiciesen
discredited or with all nations, but not the clear break with those merchants and disturbing
the province, did not dare the Rulers to claim in the Supreme Court, until the last years, stimulated
our missionaries, the Moxos and Chiquitos, complained seriously of the Royal Court Chuquisaca,
but goods have gone to so iniquitous defend in court a certain person of great authority and
together rich and powerful, that wise Senate, fearing a revolution in the province, had the
most successful board refer the whole case to Prince Santo Bonola Viceroy and Captain General
of these kingdoms of Peru, who with Christian piety dispatched stringent provisions, on pain
of wastage of goods and banishment from the country, to any who dared to buy and sell to the
Indians and the Governor to allow her, condemned privavación of office and fined twelve thousand
dollars for the Royal Treasury.

Thus, with incomparable joy and jubilation of the Spanish, was banished and completely exterminated
throughout the province of Santa Cruz de la Sierra is infamous commodity,
which supported the greed had remained there standing strong, with
great pain of jealousy.

I wanted to refer to everything said here, taking over the infidels that link to circumstances
of time they happened. Now continue our story.

Having thus arrived P. Joseph at Santa Cruz, found that the seat brought these goods and as supported
by the authority of people with a lot assumption, that at least constant
chest his firm, whom he never scared fear, or human respect would
have been impossible resist the force of many contrasts, so it is
inexplicable what he suffered and worked to eradicate unjust treatment
as, for casting to see stakeholders to put our foot in those nations
had to follow some impairment of their interests and even acabárseles
of all, he resisted with every effort, anticipating in advance what
Not long after that happened, that our Catholic kings, by request
of ours, vassals would those peoples, free and independent and would
head in Royal Crown, that they would ruin their grangerie irreparable.

But it was empty all the batteries that blow against his plan, because when this holy man knew
God was he undertook, had no human respect, fear of danger pregnancies and powerful force to
make him take a step back, not abandon it started.

Brought very effective prayers and supplications, and knew about spirit energy so that those
merchants, taking note of the wicked and cruel, they gave up, I should say and more truth, persuaded
that, consumption of the many jobs that needed to suffer, or dead at the hands of the barbarians,
life would end soon, gave free passage to vent their holy zeal.

All that was missing and who guides you on your journey, because without it was impossible to enter
and enter the land of the Chiquitos, and I am convinced that not then find some practical ways,
was cunning and trace the demon, which provided the ruin that was to cause their party to the zealous
missionary. But he was restless and kept no stone unturned to get your condución to those
provinces that at the expense of many jobs found, Finally, two men of endurance, with whom he arranged
to guide him and bear until the early settlements of the Piñocas.

Triumphant, because, this way all the hell that had conspired against him is set off on the ninth of
December, and knowing that the spread was at that time large ripples in these people, every
moment seemed a century to arrive early and remedy, since no bodies,
at least those wretched souls.

For this seemed slightly thrown by the cliffs, climbing very high mountains, ford rivers very dangerous,
very muddy crawl through swamps and deep and have greater risks of life before them all was
an indescribable softness, always being fixed the heart and mind in the extreme neglect of
these poor nations were, not had quiet rest or seeing the loss of so many, and what he came to
the soul, they same, grade, asked to be washed in the salutary waters of holy baptism.

Finally, the last of December, arrived more dead than alive for many jobs, fatigue and pains
he suffered, to the lands so sought-after Piñocas.

Unexplained was the comfort he received the good father to see his
fiery fully satisfied desires, but tempered his elation serious miseries
and sufferings of their beloved Chiquitos; sacábale many tears to
the eyes to see those unfortunate lines and thrown by soils: some
in the open, without shelter some, others with just the repair of
a covered hut only a few leaves, and others struggling with death,
and many killed in their infidelity; traspasábale the heart to hear
some lament inconsolably for dying relatives without having had the
good fortune to be (say) children of God, as you request them with
great had requested.

But in the midst of calamity was of great comfort and joy to those Barbarians in their countries
see a minister of our holy faith.

And tratáronle received him with tender affection, willingly giving of their poverty and giving him
some wild fruits, which were the delight of more money they had in those miseries. Suplicáronle
stay with them and not to abandon them in the midst of grief, promising build churches and
houses and provide what is necessary for their livelihood. Condujéronle from here to a place
not far, saying they chose there off site and then would be all together
to start a taper.

So, seeing and considering the P. Arce the willingness of the people, and if absent of them
left in total despair, he resolved to stay, and being now near the time of the rains that flooded
the campaigns and close the roads to go to find the banks of the Paraguay River to its conmisioneros,
coming from the Guarani Reductions, seemed more according to the orders that led to his provincial
air and get done here first to this new Christianity that was so
good hope that henceforth correspond with the crowd and fervor of
the faithful to the culture and evangelical zeal of the workers.
