 Y effort
not to believe the unpleasant reality, it appeared evident in the new confessions. The narrator
writes:

"We need to believe.

Need to wait ... The more often we do not know, we need that we reveal to ourselves what we
are ... "

This idea no doubt was referring to the man standing near her, her stubborn insistence in the work
of destruction, hope, living even bend it, to make return having beliefs, as the Countess
went on in horror:

"I still hate, blood, fire! No, never, never be that way! ... How can a loving soul and talk?
He says that love is paid with love, hatred with hatred, that be fair but not generous. And those
who truly hate fighting "? Do not suffer They also have to resort to violence ?...»

It seemed, therefore, that the discord between the instinct of rebellion
of the Prince and preaching of peace by the Countess had preceded
the major disappointment, but at the time to recognize the futility
of his own efforts, is not she should have suspected that the man
did not had been sincere in ensuring that his love had come to believe?

And such a suspicion should not hurt, not only in their beliefs, but even in their hopes?

She did not speak of the fate of his love. "He kept it quiet because he urged more appease the rebels
to ensure his own happiness? Or on the contrary, turned his attention a moral disappointment
to distract from a more, fearful of a disappointment that would have been much more disastrous?
If you love this man was lying, did not sanction the close failed awareness that a link had
contracted outside the law? For the Christian who guilt had seemed, if not excused, at least
tempered by the sincerity of love for the honesty of the agreement,
the purity of the commitment "should not imply a condemnation sudden
severe lack of these conditions?

Ferpierre saw that these ideas should be concerned about the deceased at that time, almost read
between the lines.

And just as when listening to a musical phrase provides for the development and cadence of
the melody, its logical predictions were confirmed by the following paragraphs of the reports:

"I
had no value, but must have it.

Again and I was afraid to go down to my for an internal examination, this duty that I have always
been easy, and nice. But then nothing was afraid that might have compared to today.

"Am I deceiving myself? And how others pretend to be sincere? Can I prevent the pride confess that
I could fool me? But God, who reads my heart knows I've thought into the well. And I still believe.

"He
is not known. Reflects so many different boosters. His thinking is so complex their experience
has been so vast that he himself does not know his true nature and that no pulse pound passenger,
there is no other than itself. I expected to get put it back on the path of truth, but the
work is harder and requires more time than I had expected.

However, I still hold out hope, confidence encouraged me before.

"There are times when I doubt.

I doubt most of it, myself. I think that this hope is false, that this confidence is not sincere,
that I'm using both to hide something less worthy, to second less pure desire.

"Is not this the view that everyone would pronounce?

Do you use anything ambiguous media who want to an end right? Should I follow tortuous paths
to put him on the road? Yo, I should give the example of virtue that he does not believe, I gave another
test rather accommodative weakness of that before condemning ...

"I can not even say I was surprised that I had not foreseen what would happen. Many fallacies! Anticipating
the fall, I told myself that he could not love or debasement, thought to confide in him for not
practicing an act of arrogance attributing exclusively ability to regulate our love!

And there would be no such pride. This ability is ours, we women are responsible of good and
evil. Our resistance must lay down the law to the exuberant energy and arrogant men. But another
idea overcame me: that for strong souls no written law in a book
just to understand it.

The unknown that all tells me that for my fall the law of love: faithfulness. Now I can not,
I should not, I do not suspect that there mocked up to that law. And yet, what I used to think
these things, say them in high voice, write, if in doubt overwhelms me and torments me?

"Slowly, but with perfect clarity, I have seen emerge, grow, and bounds.

Doubt becomes anxious at times in desperate certainty.

So I think I still remain a force to exercise extreme force: forgiveness. I feel that no it cost
me, and that's bad, because if it cost me, it would have more merit. But he I can do whatever
they want, provided they do not deny everything and always ...

"Ah, that laugh ...!»

"It was hoped that Zakunine had reached the only condition imposed by the hapless? ... To rebuild
with the help of these confessions the defendant's character, which
saw Ferpierre adverse trial that man, made by Robert candle plant,
was not the result of passion.

Behind their profession of faith humanitarian, his preaching of justice,
equality, love, selfishness to withhold a skeptic, low appetite, wrong
intentions, since he had been able to reduce such torment to a being
who had surrendered at discretion.

If induce the illusion of a more tranquil pursuit of social reform
had failed Had he answered it at least acts of kindness, these demonstrations
of love?

Ferpierre returned with interest to reading the newspaper:

"Today I said the same words that I copy, without changing anything on them:

"" So you think that love is immortal? Do not you realize that one day cease to love me they
do not love me anymore? You judge me unworthy of love: you think you have sacrificed; sacrifice hurts,
and want to get your clearance: it will look for another love, not doubt: I will offer any ...
At first say that my fault and later recognize I am not guilty. Within you, within me, the nerves,
in the flesh, blood of us all, there is a ferment that nothing and nobody can calm: when you're
hungry, you cebarás, once you've eaten, you will feel satiated. Out of this truth there is no other.
Is must say it, repeat it, to honor and recognize your laws, your commandments, your scruples, are
lies and hypocrisy that we expose and confuse. Your big names, Love Duty, the Right, have
a meaning, but not the same as you think. Our duty and our right is reduced to obtain and maintain
the pleasure, which is why the origin to the life, as your pleasure is mine, we love, when it
is not enough for each other, love ends.

Sound you utter another word: Honor. Where would you place him? My honor is to say what I think,
in my actions to agree with my ideas. Everyone is wicked full of worries, but most stupid unjust.
Science, which does not lie, has taken over the true, the only law that is in the secular accumulation
of lies: the law of the struggle for existence.

"Ocultadla, cast fire books that teach, if you still believe in your lies. But once you recognize
how you can stay serious, repeated listening to these chants lied? We must choose between death
and life: the renunciation of life is preferable but you do not wish, and as I have to live,
exterminate the whole human race to procure what you think it's more futile the satisfaction!
You wanted that we formed an inseparable family. But are not you glad now to be free, is not it
good to be in skills to be able to leave me if, having seen the way I am, do you feel inspired
horror? Let the children ignore what your parents if they do not want to curse who have given
life! Why inextricably life hotspot we wanted, when each is independent of us, when nothing
prevents - on the contrary it attends all - that each of the two can love another human being and
one day get to do it? If you leave me when I no longer love you, I appreciate, if you betray me
when still love you, I'll kill you. You do likewise. My right is equal to yours. So come all
men, in spite of codes idiots and hypocrites preaching. The anarchy that we want to establish
already exists in the customs, but there is nothing more than anarchy
in the sense that you the dais, ie, ignorance and the injury of the
laws.

What is needed instead of what is an anarchy that conforms to natural laws, the uniform conscious
vital instinct, beyond that there is nothing.

"

"I have omitted the least thing: these were his own words. You're right. Beyond that, there
is nothing ... "

And Ferpierre, even though it had long been accustomed to the spectacle of pain, felt moved
to think how bitter must have been the death of the believer. For transcribed these words,
each of which was an insult and offend frighten as blasphemy, to recognize that Zakunine was right,
it was necessary the unhappy be ordered without an excuse, which was considered lost without
hope. Should be recognized, finally, that the illusion of a soul and redeem the desire to do
it had been mere pretexts, which in its love, all love, that all
life, we hear no more voice than the tiny drives.

And that was the result: she wanted make your lover come back to have beliefs, she wanted to draw
him to his own faith seen pushed to doubt, to the denial. Instead of healing the sick, he had caught
their evil, instead of purifying the reprobate, was spotted by the touch!

But could, in fact long deny the beliefs of a lifetime? In that sentence it was right to what
extent denier irony intervened? As she spoke of his love, he argued skeptical arguments, cynical
and almost expected that he would be betrayed; this was enough for
the unfortunate itself is flouted, but what he thought of the possibility
of betrayal?

"He recognized that, by a fatal logic, his first error was follow a second and a third, or conversely,
rebelled against this logic?

There was the moral problem, whose solution would have clarified the legal mystery.

And Ferpierre curiosity grew, its attention to the confessions of
the dead be redoubled.

"What a disaster for a mother, having to despise his own son, the
fruit of their live depths, the best part of their being!

"The tragedy of life is the idea of ??happiness.

"The person who follows the grave to be adored" is liable to punishment?

Is it a crime a son, a husband, die with the father or the wife? An act is punishable as beautiful?
If I had died with my father!

"Pray to God to send us the death, hope and salvation, desire it as a reward Is not it almost like
giving it?

Is it so big the gap between ardent vocation the act? If the act is a sin how can it be spoiled
intended pleading? ...

"I will not have to wait long, the work of destruction is already advanced, my pain bites breastfeed
more viciously. But every day, every hour that passes, I do much harm.

"There are coincidences that seem, warnings, advice, complicity, of the destination. Why has been the
weapon into my hands, just as was its lack ?...»

All these paragraphs that discussed the unhappy itself the problem of suicide, demonstrated that
he had no more hope than death. Beyond a statement that was transcribed read in a book:

"When I live under the laws, I have the obligation to comply, but can you still make me when I'm out
of them? "(Montesquieu.)

This trial was due seem uniquely adaptable to your own situation.

However all contrary arguments, must see that suicide is an evil, and that the moral law ordered
life endure patiently until the last day, but this order could be
worth for those who had obeyed all the others, it had infringed and
a much more serious should feel detached from this duty, and besides,
when I thought about killing yourself, wanted to impose punishment.

"Is it time?" He asked in another paragraph. True, when you see that all other remedies are impossible,
when hope is dead at all, I can run this event, but am I I just judge the opportunity of the moment?
It does not seem often that a living body is close to dissolve under
the action of a relentless evil, then nature is in itself the strength
to revive it?

Life, so rich and fertile is not can be solved in an unexpected way a situation seems to end? Should
not hope be the last to die? Did I touch then wait ?...»

Recognizing the desirability of doing so had expected, but what had been achieved with it?

After a few blank pages, the judge found the thought struck him:

"The joy does not have sufficient virtue to forget the pain, as a new pain .-- The night August
12. "

Between the two sheets had some dried flowers, stiff and discolored, by way of signal.

Those flowers and the date set under those words, they think that Ferpierre it was a more noteworthy
event, which the Countess attached particular importance. Continued reading and found a paragraph
in the longer time it stopped.

The deceased did not express his own thought: once copied something from a book:

"Nothing contributes so much to make life unpleasant, a second love. The nature of eternity,
of infinity that brings love and lifts it above all things, has vanished ya: love seems ephemeral
as everything starts again. "(Goethe.)

Ferpierre remembered very well this trial by the German poet: could the deceased have cited without
applying it to itself? And he expressed doubt that candle plant began to take consistency. If the Countess
had copied the statement disconsolately after a candle plant known as was still troubled by
an unconscious sympathy, it was necessary to believe that he did not expect find love in the
second compensation but a ground for punishment! After waiting, waited until after the life, what
got it? Not a help, but the last disaster!

The poet's statement meant that the second love is inevitably doomed, because thrilled by the depth
of the new affection is not possible for the heart that has seen the former's death. The savages
of America immortal believed the first European came to conquer the new world, and therefore
the omnipotent judged until seeing Spanish succumb first recognized the deception and ceased
to venerate ...

But the certainty expressed by Goethe and later affirmed by the Countess d'Arda what could asserted
against the persuasions of the life instinct? How many love again prevents knowledge the new
love to end up as the first?

The certainty of death that you have is it perhaps a reason for suicide? One who sees the sad truth
live badly, but still alive, because the instincts are more persuasive than abstract concessions
... capacity restrain merely the moral sanction.

The condition in which the Countess was the lack of a written obligation that the linking inextricably
to the Prince, the example you gave her unworthy lover, was natural, humanely are sought in
the new love comfort and enjoyment which revocation, common to all
human affairs, could not and should stop.

What happened was that while he was open to men, had been linked to his own conscience, without
the aid of the rite, but with complete sincerity. True, had been outside the laws, but in order
to come back to them who had abandoned and unknown, and whether they had received this an example
of evil, had been due to give the good. Feeding this new love was not, therefore possible,
without compromising the attenuation, in the ambiguity of their status, substraían to the conviction
and allowed at least hope that it might avoid rigor.

"This idea convinced me: that souls do not need strong that law is written in a book just to understand
it. "Could have forgotten their own words, the feeling that they had been given? If that feeling was
sincere and healthy; if the soul of this woman was so high and strong as it appeared in the
statements of witnesses and in the pages of the book, not only was possible had been given
death but that the incident should have been almost expected.

Before
I found candle plant, his heart was oppressed, his life full of bitterness,
all their efforts had failed, but, however, could still be respected.
In the bitter had been disappointed, yes, censorship and reported
foul, claiming that it had joined with Prince Alexis, not to fulfill
a noble purpose, animated by a pure sense, but simply to satisfy his
own lust, and even had said that his own failure was attenuated. A
second fall not only had no excuse, but also skeptical view would
be confirmed or that it had formed her first lover:

"Your sacrifice
hurts, want to obtain compensation and seek it in another love: not
doubt, someone will offer you ... "These words of Zakunine who had
humiliated and offended when there were more than a skeptical forecast,
would have been confirmed by the fact, expressed reality, if she had
yielded to the love of candle plant, then the skeptic, denier, the
blasphemer had been right, faith that the believer is held against
him had been reduced as he wanted to reduce it to a lie, a hypocrisy.

Ferpierre
repeated to himself that suicide under these conditions was not only
possible, but almost necessary. And for other reasons had recognized
its credibility in a nature melancholy and contemplative as this,
in a soul accustomed to regularly look inside itself, to explore without
fear, but rather a kind of complacency problems of life