 Ah! yes, and some padding; few
paragraphs ... my result, loyalty to the government, freedom, love of institutions! "

It was settled, the court reporters have to work on his account.

VIII

Don Luis finally spoke. After many years of silent parliamentary life, the Journal Session printed
his name, not only in the common type used for voting, but also in bold letters that were
obvious, saying, THE LORD attacked: I ask the floor. When he read his name in the extracts
from newspapers, still felt shivers of fear. At the start of his speech the hall was nearly
full, by the novelty of listening to a senator that ceased to be monosyllabic: After many listeners
took to the aisles, but as peroration was short, there remain numerous enough not to make bad role.
In the bank two ministers remained blue. Pepe was heard from the bottom of a platform: the data notes
and quotes from its pages came intact from the lips of Don Luis, who only put a short paragraph
at the beginning of their harvest to ask for leniency, simulating the two hundred thousand like he had
heard before, also adding the odd phrase to praise the importance of what he was saying. When he
forgot some of the many who committed to memory, threw hand copied the pages that brought in his
own handwriting. Towards the conclusion wanted to expand on the original considerations, but he
was pierced in the throat and ended continued by stating that no more attention not to disturb
the House. He had a good have found a real triumph over the material gathered by Pepe, Don
Luis was well and nothing else. At the end of some applause rang in most banks, and everybody
said he had been discreet, that it represented great knowledge of the matter. A He congratulated
the Minister and this will offset the disappointment that gave newspapers opposition saying
only that Mr. Agreda had consumed a shift in pro. In contrast, eat when they went to see many
friends and after her daughter was at the concert Retiro, round and
round like a bullfighter who has gotten afternoon arm Fortunately
in good thrust.

At home I leave Paz said:

- Say, Daddy, have you served the papers that brought you the boy of the Senate?

- Something, something, the guy is not stupid ... have good will and seems ready.

- Yes, eh?

Peace did not know how to suggest to his father the idea that somehow use of services Pepe,
he realized that Don Luis did not need secretary or clerk.

In fact, his malice was late, the gratified vanity was ahead of impatient love. He was already thinking
in tackling other issues before the close of the Courts. In addition, fortune favored lovers,
because the voters of Don Luis, accustomed to his long silence, shot a cloud of congratulatory telegrams,
after the telegraph used mail and, as was necessary to answer such luck, Senator Pepe determined
to employ as scribe.

One morning he was not caught Don Luis at home, and became part of the books, immediate the office:
Peace appeared soon after, hiding her embarrassment, and pretending to be distracted. Until
then only changing a few sentences, but without a formal conversation:
therefore, the first time I spoke at home, the interview would matter,
pleasing given the complicity established between them.

Peace, after greeting him, dared not to deploy the lips: no experience in such ailments, but her
female instinct I said that it was she who should speak first, and building under the left
balcony spend a few moments.

Pepe got up from his seat and came to it, to distance accused greater
respect than impatience, said:

- Miss, my first duty is to beg you
to forgive me.

I confess that vanity has blinded me. I expect no leniency do not deserve. What I have done
is wrong, I know, and yet, I could not restrain myself. Why lie, if you need to understand what happens
in my soul?

She wanted to talk and Pepe made a move to let him continue.

- Before you tell me one word, I want to be entirely frank with you.

My position, my life, my poverty, and who knows if my education, I am separated from you I've
made the imprudence of leaving poke in the eye what I felt to know you .. Then I thought I saw that
You showed no anger, because maybe you seem too cruel contempt, and
it has come this situation, where there is only one culprit: my vanity.

I dint fix my error of openness.

This language gave wings to the living character of Peace.

- Yes, do you have reason, I understand that I am wrong, I have not come today because this room,
but is I'm as loyal as you.

You want to believe in his sincerity, I have the right I demand that
you cross out of flirtatious or you think that I can have fun at humiliating.

-
Think what you say, miss. It is too good to pay you with scorn and
contempt the feeling aroused in me, but you do not inspire in me feels
pity, but the impulses of his own heart, do not forget to keep listening
to you now is getting ... What another man would be a game with me
would be a mockery.

She, restless, smiled, looking like someone suggests that perhaps did not expect to hear much,
and the words stopped him.

- Jesus, my God!

How you ask!

Before so humble, and now so demanding!

- Demanding?

- Yes, you bet I would say get commitment.

He paused, Peace, pretending to be distracted away two or three steps
and looking back to Pepe, continued

- It should be enough for you
see I'm not angry ...

- Then, "you even knowing what is happening
in my heart allows me to follow you coming to this house?

- Do not
return you to tell me about their poverty?

I do not know what it is, but when you say something that may humiliate, it seems that I am
humbled .-- And he wanted to leave.

       

- No, miss, you hear me a moment. If you know understand what your indulgence for me!

Without letting end, went to the office door and very quietly, with a charming pout, repeat
again:

- Demanding, demanding.

What more could you want? "I'm not angry" - he said - "not you again to talk about his poverty. "Pretender
clarity would be folly.

* * * * *

After two months, their dialogue was now very different, that when the trail opens estimate,
Love widens and paves the way soon.

Peace and shortness or felt or expressed Pepe founded suspicion that
what he was offered other than the future of each: phrases were changed
protests of affection, promise of firmness, the whole repertoire monotonous
and vulgar lovers, always romantic and exaggerated, but eternally
delightful.

Mediated circumstance, however, between them, changing their character. She, despite their resiliency,
afraid to mortify the susceptibility of Pepe, was treated with consideration
that no one else had saved, and he was cold, unbelieving, mocking,
always ready to sweeten reality with his good humor, was primarily
reflective and serious peace, as if you scare that loving intimacy
which, in their view, could not resist the time or would crash against
the harshness of life.

Do not be so easy to get as often as they wish, eventually establish for private use, a postal
service. The initiative was Pepe, the postman deserve chapter.

IX

In the press of Miller was a boy, a mixture of apprentice and orderly, who was called pathetic.
He said his name was Pepe Maldonado, but retained no memory of his family. No one knew his origin,
nor himself. Just remember to have lived in Puerta de Moros, gathered at the home of a greengrocer,
aunt, which they considered very young, do not ever talked to their parents.

One morning the old woman, who used to linger in the municipal license fee of the post pulse,
was taken to prevent and, as a result, took such hot flashes, who died at few hours, coming to
be the guy on the street, no more under God, with mischief by instinct and ignorance guide. A
couple from the neighborhood gave him shelter during five weeks,
but this charity was formerly assistant desire to have intended to
favor him; for when the wife have forced up the river a bag of clothes
over their forces, the husband, who was saddler, he turned green or
purple at the shoulders, forcing him to dye cattails in a yard that
looked like tanks.

When they ate, if left over was for Pepe, if there was no remains, thanks to give him bread
to scrape the pot of stew, so the hunger and a fleece given to him to get into the tub of green
that had to be purple try the patience of the boy. He escaped, and that was the most troubled
period of his life. Scrub in taverns, where he had tips for wages, helping to cool to shout hardware
and collect and sell butts, sleeping in doorways: the existence led for about a few months,
dirty, barefoot, shabby, hungry and flaunting and between the tears of the golden chest camiseja
strong as an antique bronze. Only There were two things do not you try to look for a living: not called
charity or stolen.

Happened to spend a morning down the street from Maldonado, donuts factory had a acquaintance of
the deceased greengrocer, who asked him how he lived buñolero, said the boy worse, and inspire
so sorry knew that there was looking after the retail sale, without promise of payment other
than food and somewhere to sleep. The saddler not heard from again him. The guys who previously
had the buñolero of dependents, which again, which less, they all stolen; Pepe Maldonado was flawless
fidelity. Before dawn, his master and apprentice sobaban mass disposed in the basin and then
fried with unusual speed balls, cakes and cucumber: Pepe, meanwhile, managed the watchmen, mixing
some flour to sprinkle sugar, scrubbing vessel, put everything in place and, when opening the
store, placed upright in the door, dispatched young and old donuts, greasy forming the zinc
surface table covering a lot of quarters and eighths of the Moorish, which left him the dirty
contact mildew-stained fingers. Or eaten a donut or retracted a farthing. No one taught mathematics,
however, to the returns of the currency was smarter than a money changer. If Eve were fritters,
dispatches the first, the average serving of liquor, assumed that the throat when the customer was
insensitive, given the cheap price how expensive, and for constant favoring the house was to
find fresh pasta, fried smoking, which had not yet fallen bubbles of boiling oil. The master was
fond with him in such a degree that he began to treat him as a child and until that was determined
by evening school, where, in a few months, learned to read, write and count. Year to be in the bun
shop, the daughter of the master, who was a girl of fourteen saladísima, ill with smallpox and, strange
to the common people, gifted in such cases as valuable as ignorance, neighbors, acquaintances
and friends left the little patient and their parents complete abandonment. The girl was going
to sweep and mop disappeared without asking a peak that had the wages, and the lad who helped knead
and fry cowardly fired: Pepe remained only there day and night, without going to play with neighborhood
kids or otherwise engage in caring the girl. Guided very clear understanding, was set well in
many disorders suffered, to say them to the doctor, then gave the footage to the recipe, with
due intervals, wrapping up soon as a girl on her wrist. When, for entering the disease the
period of desquamation was easier to get, Pepe, who ignored him,
redoubled care and, during his convalescence, the company was constantly
asking the girl, satisfying their whims and tolerating his impertinence,
to that given already high, became prior to his post and continued
to sell cucumbers to the boys and all the donuts stringing morning
in the reeds, which, with the management of pennies, just by letting
your fingers dirty and greasy, then, four hops, was planted to see
the girl.

So Pepe paid debt of gratitude to those people, but their principal is also well behaved.

-
You're already in the house - he said one day - find another clerk
to the office.

And we to see, you want to follow trade? Say it like you were my son.

Pepe said he wanted to be a compositor, because the school had sent him check friend who your
parents put on a press, which the boy always had the pockets full
of pictures of deliveries, romances a blind, hallelujah rolls remains
and pieces of posters of bulls.

After spending two or three months in crummy printers, came to end in Millan's buñolero was known,
and took root there at once, ie ready appreciated and obedient, they took care. The day was
spent learning the box, trained in composing and distribute, then began to monkeys and patches,
and the night was in the streets sell a twenty-five of a newspaper that there was thrown. What
gave him this sale as kept to himself, and a week's wages in full
on Saturday put him in the hands of buñolero; but what I liked most
was to give it to Isabelita, saying: - "Go, give that to your father."

The other apprentices, envious of that fellow who became more case of them began to take grudge
and play tricks. One day I took the lunch box lunch substituting tortilla press powders. Again,
as was in his shirtsleeves, I stamped on the back a freshly printed galley, with the fresh ink
of a sign saying, "This dog is sold." They even stuff you boots with the fat spreads the wheels
of the machine, while he was working with espadrilles for more rest. Then came the flap Madrid,
brave, Arriscado, witty and willing to give of cheeks or punched with the bravest, and throw
the trip at the same nuncio. With a few timely slaps became respectable. One day, another apprentice
got older against him a razor blade. Pepe took it from her hands, putting his strongly held
him aggressor's head between his legs, and as punishment he ripped up the seam cuchilleja back
of his trousers, then giving it the sun or water ever saw, a few stripes: after the razor
blade quietly returned, saying: - "Here, Bocer, that does not Pá serves only break bread.
"- A work hours was a model of diligence, he arrived time to do mischief, was the skin of the demons.
It seemed to have two types : one for the task, one for the antics, and it would seem that,
as corresponding these two people had two different faces. Leaning over the box looking types,
adjusting words in the box, or distributing letters, used to fold his forehead with a serious frown
of worker and Machucha: then did not speak and puts the focus on what he did, his black eyes acquired
a look of comic gravity: in the street, running or playing with hair disheveled, toasted complexion,
cocked the gorrilla, brash and brimming looking malice, brought to the memory of the old boys
picaresque novels. Peers called him first the Tiznao, because it was very dark, like a Bedouin
faded to force washings: finally Pateta nicknamed him, and stayed with this alias. Miller, who
knows the history of pathetic Grace had fallen into the boy, Pepe much sympathized with him
for a single detail. Was correcting one evening statements of a book, when presented with a humble
attitude Pateta.

- What?

- Ask you a favor, because Mr. Miller has not come.

- Come on, say.

-
Well, I have a girlfriend.

That is, my bride, truth is not, but we talk something ... and tomorrow is his birthday. Look
you, I made this sign and wanted to put in letters Doras glitter, this card ma Costao border
that two materials. Well, well ... tell me you how I do and I leave it on the machine, or whatever,
then they leave those.

Pepe examined the card, adorned with flowers and Amorcitos, which
showed the boy, and saw the sign they had made with the types choose
from the house.

"A Gorilla Isabel, in his day."

(This is a very complicated Gothic), and then, under "For José Maldonado.

"(Here the letters were a lot of adornment.)

- And that Isabel, who
is?

- The daughter of my master.

(Pateta continued to call his protective love.)

- Does the smallpox?

- Yes, sir, but has not quedao signal. Tié the face that gives glory.

- Do you know your master? ...

- Know ... I do not know, because I have not said a peep. As you have money, I do not want create
... Do you understand you? But it malice, because I, nor the bulls go, but I fourth generation
estarme provided in the back talking to her.

       - Well, man, well, come on, keep it or leave it here, at the last
minute to tell you Mr. Ramón what to do, and finish it camaraderie.

This small service rendered to Pateta Pepe, I paid for it in spades.

If it rained suddenly I was the boy ran into the street to fetch
the umbrella keypads: whether to go to the tobacconist for snuff,
back in a tell Jesus to bring coffee from one that was near of printing,
no one walked lighter, and if the coffee had been cold, snuggled up
to the machine steam, not lick the toast or smuggle half sugar, as
did others.

* * * * *

Such was the postman who chose Pepe to ensure their correspondence with Peace, hiding, of course,
he worked at the same press where it was an apprentice.

- If I ask you to do me a favor, can I count on you? - Pepe said one day.

- Send what you want - said the future typesetter.

- The thing has to be between you and me I do not want anyone to know,
understand?

Neither Mr. Miller.

- Neither the stones.

Never failed to secrecy. When Pepe spent two or three days without seeing Paz wrote it, and
pathetic, when leaving work, undertook the walk from the hotel where she, prevented by impatiently
waiting for him behind the glass of the balcony of his room. The range of garden was immediately
to the gate a small oven made of brick and tiled, which served to warm the atmosphere in growing
flowers: Pateta was coming there, watching the time when no servant
could see him, and putting his arm through the bars of gate, depositing
the letter tiles in one of those bad affirmed.

The next day collecting the same site of defense, won him so long walks, and especially pleased
that service is such a pack of waterproof Pepe gave him, and sometimes a coffee half roasted,
which made him smacking taste.

X

The affection of the lovers and the plight of Pepe grew up to par. The amount retirement of Don
Jose, the brainchild of his son, the little that earned Leocadia embroidering and what they tried to
save Dona Manuela, everything was invested in medical and pharmacy. So was the winter of 1872
and that sad Christmas Eve dinner, which spoke of the next Tirso coming and that, after going
Millán, and the old man slept, they discussed children and the mother of which should be made without
going to solve anything, because the common devotion did not produce a single penny of copper.

The
next week the situation worsened with the news that came Tirso: letter that it should not
precede it announced only two days. Pepe wrote to his girlfriend of this Fortunately, mixing
with the words of love he felt for suspicion that an unknown brother:

Adoro Paz:

You're right: Although we are almost daily, so few occasions when we speak freely, that force
must be our long and frequent letters. Things I write you would say to you: what does not stir
you read, my words would lead the soul into force of sincerity. But I understand that there
is no remedy, and even fear that these difficulties not now but other major announcement: believe
me, our love must cost a lot tears. Be as romantic as you want, and is opposite to my way of thinking
about in tone bitter about certain things, but I do, that all the concerns I laugh, I've come
to crash against one of the most powerful. The distance between us would be greater if you
were queen and I groom, like the characters in this French drama were reading the other day.
The situation of my family, our poverty, all that hinders me to make my way in life, I separated
from you. Your father has an enviable position: what do you want to give her daughter a man who has
had to abandon the race due to lack of few dollars per year books and tuition?

But a day of life, life. I do not you ever give up, do not say never leave me, and when are
you who say that we should not meet again, keep silent, because you'll be right. It seems to
me, mocking and godless, no worries, I come to crash into the obstacle more laughable, but stronger-against
social conventions. Kid yourself, our love must be a very short novel, ridiculous to count,
sad for us, unique we take it seriously. How long will this last? Who will get tired before? What do you
expect? Do I to love? Who ever will not be anxious time, which will making it increasingly good
and beautiful, perhaps richer, and me most wretched and poor.

Do not imagine that I want break our relationships: to know that I want, get a letter in which
I talk about your Sweetheart, hear you ever remember me when you suffer and you're missing something
in the joys of not having me on the side, are things that touch my soul and leave me proud of myself.
If you only knew how you pay them my heart! If you could read my thoughts, guessing the ideas,
hide from the vagaries of my dreams ... But I want, while my love, you're convinced of my loyalty.
Before you hear what your father, I want to be me I tell you. What I can offer future? No, I will never
leave you, and if you become a judicious day or more interested, do not cast curses of comedy,
but I separate them resigned from you, loving you as I do now and keeping the best of the memory
remember the love that I've ever had. Never throw you in the face lack of energy or weakness
constancy. It's so natural you forget me! Fed have done with starting to love, but then you weigh.

How
many times have I told you all this? Do not be surprised, because
due to my obsession, to my constant pondering. We can not conceive
the foundation of your love. I love you, so good so beautiful you
are. But you, why do I want? I miss everything around you, you live
in an atmosphere of luxury almost unknown to me, as I live between
deprivation that you can not calculate, and may you always be outsiders,
the least of your whims I could not satisfy many weeks of work, the
people that speak to you have to use derogatory language to for those
in situations similar to mine, went into the house of my parents and
you saw these walls, the furniture, I would hesitate whether to offer
money for pity or conceal what they noticed, by pointing to imagine
that such a shortage could offend: and yet you say that best place
in your heart is for my baby, and you taught me my letters with my
name deleted with your kisses