 This troupe of musicians, followed by the people,
stops to pray before the shrines that adorn the four corners of the square.

In 1830, the population of Concepcion was composed of three thousand one hundred twenty-six individuals
and was divided into twenty sections, or bias, whose names are: Gimoboconos, Hompaceboconos,
Write to us, Tirajabanos, Nipocenos, Coriceboconos, Choyinobenos, Itapimuyiros, Taramuinos, Chaquionos,
Muchogeonos, Choromonos, Cabiripoyanos, Abejanos, Arayamanos, Amoriciboconos,
Paresabanos, Paromoconos, Abenbanos, Joboconos.

Road to Carmen Concepcion.

Cuéntanse fifteen leagues from the Carmen Concepcion, which is towards the the south, or if
you like, two days of sailing, climbing canoeing on the White River is very deep, well boxed
and much wider than the Rio de San-Miguel, it has at least one hundred fifty yards from side
to side. Although little difference in appearance looks the same, its current is somewhat more
tortuous, and increases with the charge of streams that flow from the neighboring marshes. Its
banks are well-built manned the Baures a number of canoes, sufficient to carry out this expedition,
headed the indicated place, where they found hundreds of Indians, the rest of the nation Tapacura,
submitted by the Jesuits in Concepcion de Chiquitos, and taking with him willingly or by force hundred
individuals, together with ninety-five families Moxos Concepcion, the which composed a total
of three hundred fourteen Baures, creating the mixed population in this small town del Carmen. This was
first built near the banks of White River, about twelve miles southeast
of the site now occupied, but by unsafe site, was transferred in the
year of 1801 to the point where this exists.

The Tapacura it agreed readily to the customs of the missions, and soon they was so submissive to all
the same rules as Baures.

The population was composed of Carmen at the time of its foundation, of five hundred and fifteen
people; but having intermittent fevers prevented its accretion in 1801 was almost the same
notwithstanding that there were seventeen native who spent seventy years [1]. In 1815 there
were reached number sixty-six six hundred inhabitants in 1822, that of seven hundred and sixty
and eight, and in 1830, nine hundred and thirty-two.

      This figure is very low provided
      to the fertility of Indian women
      to stop almost every year, but three-quarters
                                  of children
                                   usually die on the eighth day of his birth.

This population was composed, in that year of 1830, the following indigenous

Quitemocas or Chapacuras. 340 Muchojeones. 230 Baures. 362 ----- 932

The Quitemocas, Chapacuras, or Tapacura have retained their original language, although they Baures
language use has become widespread in all missions Moxos East: the Muchojeones speak a dialect
slightly different from that of the Baures. All these natives are kind in extremity.

The population of Carmen is the most backward of all the province with respect to industry factory,
their very ordinary tected. Cocoa products also yield the most fruitful you should, because
of the great neglect with which it is grown. In the surrounding forests is reflected large number
of excellent vanilla.

In 1830, state farms were composed of three thousand six hundred animals, cattle, and three thousand
two hundred ninety-two horses. All located on the south plains of Carmen and on the bank of
the river San-Miguel, are also populated entirely earned savages and it is estimated that
the number should exceed ten thousand.

Major means of communication between the province and neighboring provinces Moxos.

Currently, the province announced Moxos, with the river Chiquitos San-Miguel, with Yuracare
and Cochabamba Chapare river, and also by the way practiced by me down Securi river, with Santa
Cruz de la Sierra in the rivers Grande and Piray. I shall give here a indication of these various
vehicles of communication.

Moxos Guarayos Walk to the river of San-Miguel.

Seven or eight days they used to be the country of the Carmen de Moxos
Guarayos, falling in canoe, about sixty leagues to the northwest,
by the river San-Miguel, the edges in Guarayos near present an extremely
varied.

On their own embankment is discover some virgin forests, and whose foliage of varying colors
stand Tufts Mambu bounds of canes or tacuaras, contrasting with the finely cut leaf of lambaibas,
or with the dark green of the palms palm fronds. Often find leaning trees on the water, and
which segments have arrived at angles falling take root, and natural caves formed a delightful appearance.
In the spring almost no tree that does not contain a nest made of neatly sum [1], and very often
present some bags fully covered slopes of the branches.

The course, entirely flat and even, is covered with black mulch, topsoil very fertile, which has not
been used yet, in spite of being efficacious in agriculture. On the second day of sailing is found
on the right bank of a small hill of sandstone of a former geologic age, past the hill, still populated
plain always wooded. Although the river is narrow, the riverbed, which everywhere is well boxed,
is deep enough to lend at all times to the navigation of large boats, ships or steam. Its
first manned banks, starting from Trinidad, of colorful Mambu, populating
go little by little of various trees, which somehow disappear the
fifth day to near the confluence of Huacaria.

This river, known among the inhabitants Moxos under the name of Black River, the color of its waters,
a large lake low located between the Ascension and Trinity Guarayos, and then runs parallel
to the current San-Miguel, removed by some leagues from each other. The Huacaria receive in
transit, that is one of degree and a half, more or less, a myriad of streams that descend from
the east.

The traveler who comes to put your plant on virgin soil almost entirely, try a satisfacion that
will never have the idea that they have not left the inhabited places. Animals jungle, Agen
still the fear that should inspire the presence of man, far to get in unless you see for the first
time, seem rather out to meet him as attracted by curiosity, so in
those places, wherever he goes the traveler, discovers the wandering
herds of wild boar, deer, large animals, to two troops of monkeys
of various species [1], walking happy frolicking in the trees, and
stop for a moment full of admiration, to jump and make grimaces and
then more strange and ludicrous contortions, while in all forests
constantly resounds the din of birds of various sizes and colors.

As the road ahead, the slopes of the San-Miguel are decreasing elevation, and forests on both
banks, as it had in the beginning of one to two miles wide, going closer and closer until only the
edges to trim the river, finishing Finally, on the right bank at a point where it opens a spacious
plain and totally drowned: this place is the Puerto del Carmen, distant seven leagues from the mission,
which in Dry time is on horseback, through the gap between the rivers Blanco and San-Miguel; but
in the rainy season this road crossing is primarily a marsh by canoe, Throw in a league until
a boscage which extends parallel to the river San-Miguel. Departing from this boscage, it enters
another that is bathed three leagues wide, and which goes on horseback, although in some Parages
usually get the water to animal encounters: the ends dipped in the river of San-Francisco,
which is necessary pass in canoe at once through a meadow, then a forest, beyond which there
a farm for raising horses. The rest of the way from this point to the mission Carmen is the
town of palm trees and other plants carondais.

Yuracares Moxos Road to the Chapare river.

From the port of Loreto was first walking a mile, crossing in a canoe leading to the river bathed
Mamore, whose slopes, very high in dry weather, are trimmed spacious
forest.

At the end of the first day is high on a sandbar, or if you want in the forests of the bank.

The next day, the Mamore shown less wide but much more boxed: a few hours gear is reached at
the confluence of the rivers Sara [1], which is simply, as I have had the chance to check it, a continuation
of the rivers Grande and Piray together, which have their headwaters in the departments of Chuquisaca,
Cochabamba and Santa Cruz. When traveling to Santa-Cruz de la Sierra, Sara takes the river, but heading
for Cochabamba to continue forever by the Mamore which is much more plentiful, and still preserves
above the confluence, the width majestic and pristine waves.

The river runs Sara Meanwhile rogizas constantly being murky waters.

In the middle of the third day we reach the confluence of the Rio Chapare, thus leaving The Mamore
is followed by the new trend, which is much narrower, but its banks, in Instead of being trimmed
of those modern boscages growing on terromonteros are populated forests as old as the world.
The riverbed of Chapare, firmer than that of Mamore is too deep and fairly well boxed, its waters
are always kept clear, and take the dark green hue of the trees that adorn so many. On the
banks left side shows then the mouth of a river which the Indians have given the name Santa Rosa:
it is believed that this river, whose gentle stream has a black sheen, lose one lagoon which is located
six miles from that point on a great plain, where they lived, to
the arrival of the Jesuits, Moxos tribes with which it has formed
the Mission San Xavier.

On the fourth day's journey, the jungles of the Chapare banks will increasingly high up but,
being composed entirely of ancient trees, until just now coming to discover the small part of heaven
for the deep furrow along the river in the middle of that perennial sea of ??greenery. From time to
time distracting the attention of the traveler, who travels amazed by this stunning solitude,
the sharp cries of monkeys of various species and the confused clamor of the multitude of birds
of varied plumage, however, transit this place is usually very uncomfortable, rarely stops raining
it in abundance. Cowhide leather, which form the awnings under which the travelers take shelter,
get so corrupted to the continuous action of moisture and air so hot that and constantly locked
up, exhaling a bad odor unbearable, almost the same is true corned beef (the only provision of
mouth that takes in these expeditions) that is altered to be unusable.

In

the space that runs on the fifth day, there are two species of palms [1], unknown in Moxos. In the
afternoon, begin to appear in the vagueness of the horizon the peaks of the Cordillera, which soon
disappear behind the huge forests, after having comforted the poor traveler changing the monotony
of the landscaping.

On the seventh day, the uniform looks great about this place, among whom are still vogando slowly,
embellishes more and more as they come on the road, and vegetation appears much more varied,
meanwhile, scarcely down from time to time some rays sun by the dense clouds that overcast the
air constantly, often download torrents of rain, a circumstance which, combined with the excessive
heat of the area, determined this wonderful activity that develops
all the plants, full of vigor and freshness.

At the same time the woods holds the beautiful foliage of a large number of palms new and different
species, which are distinguished the palm of vinte vineyard and fishing. The river meanwhile appears
more narrow, and its banks are warning of some other plants, as the
rods and the smooth, whitish whose leaves stand out against the dark
background of the dark boscage.

At night the eighth day of sailing, and are noted on the first beach pebbles often rejoice in
this fact the Indians moxeños extremity, not only because she is a harbinger of the proximity
of the land of the Yuracares, but also by the novelty because they view an object entirely unknown
to them, because as already I said, not in the province of Moxos the smallest flint, for which reason
being pebbles a real find, collect, either to make fire, either by mere curiosity, with the
same importance would pick up stones. Whenever a new object hurts our senses, a satisfaction
point experiments, an inexplicable happy: thus natural ecstasy Moxos is contemplating the rocks,
as an inhabitant of the Mountains are encouraged at the sight of the beautiful trees, feels like a
joy unknown Cruceño in the presence of rocks. At the same time widen the beaches, the mountains
seem closer and closer, and the banks are manifested entirely covered, so soon vejucos tinged with
yellow and purple flowers and as soon countless palm trees, vanilla and other aromatic plants
such trees as soon as strangers, whose tops, fully stripped of foliage, contain only the most showy
purplish flowers. All places where it travels in the day, offered to the admiration of the traveler
a great set wonders. Meanwhile, only the next morning is a sight of confluence of the rivers Coni
and San-Mateo, whose reunion is formed Chapare River: the flow of this is fast at this point
and carries stone from some volume. The San-Mateo river runs noisily over a rocky bed and between
magnificent boscages, but to go to Yuracares rides the Coni river is less significant and mostly
shallow. Steamers of all sizes can navigate without hindrance by the Chapare, just the mouth
of two rivers that give origin. When you enter into the navigation of those rivers, and direct
traffic trade of these regions to Europe this point, which is sheltered from the floods, may
serve advantageously for the establishment of a port, where the fruits will be shipped from
from the mountains to the northeast of Cochabamba and Valle Grande.

The rise in the rio Coni is quite laborious, because we must fight
against a current sometimes very fast, and save some rapids often
covered with pebbles in the meantime the spectacle presented by the
banks is the same, impressive at the same time smiling.

Finally, the eleven days of travel is high on the left bank, and throwing foot earth to walk
three miles through the woods more beautiful in the world, following the course a narrow path leading
to the small town of Ascension Isiboro belonging the country of the Yuracares.

Yuracares Road to Moxos, by the river Securi.

When in the year 1832 I decided to open a new way of communication
between the country of Yuracares and Moxos province, began my journey
by following ITINERARY.

First lower Moleto the river, where I embarked in a canoe which I
had had built for this purpose.

The waters of this river were very low, and stumbled at every step in addition to the rapids
it is full, for which reason we use three days to arrive at the confluence of the rivers Icho far only
three leagues. Tucked almost always in the water to drag the canoe and entirely bare during
the day we were tormented by venomous bites the gnats who were displaced by swarms of mosquitoes
at night bitterest yet. My journey companions complained with good reason, and only the example
of my resignation and my constant cooperation could work to give the mind to forward. In this
interval, the river receives Moleto the eastern waters the Ipuchi, and by those of western
rivers and Eñesama Solotosama [1], which run between low hills, most prominent towards the
west. These hills are but the latest slopes of the Cordillera.

At the confluence of two rivers that form the river Securi, water depth and widen is greater,
however, to navigate in large boats, they need to be they of shallow. We find here some Indians
engaged in fishing, which were determined to watch: soon advising us to stop, they showed us
behind some brambles the left bank of a path that we could not discover
from the stream.

Encaminándonos by him, are in the middle of a forest, a quarter of a mile away, a few houses that
had a high floor, building for the place itself seemed very wet. Hoping to get some bananas
and cassava roots, the only provisions that found in uncivilized places, I moved since then into
one of those houses recently abandoned by their inhabitants, who had transferred ten miles to
the west, fleeing a disease that according to them existed in the hamlet. The next day, at little
more than the eleven, seeing that even the commissioners did not return had gone in search
of food, I decided return to the river to embark and continue my journey, but soon my three
Indians to reach after me with some supplies. Immediately we started leaving the country of
vogando the Yuracarés and resolutely towards unknown regions.

In the space of a league we had to save some shoals, and after leaving trim back a tree island,
we found the river and completely open and unencumbered. Then I came to know it would be very easy
navigation of this current, even for steam vessels. This point, which are the most fertile land
that could be found, I found very helpful for the establishment of a port to open on arrival
commercial communications with the province of Moxos.

The river abounds in fish: increasingly casting our hooks, without losing time in pairs took
out huge fish, among which were distinguished mainly belonging to the family of siluroides, and
also the many pacus, fish of the most exquisite of America [1]. Day Next, after having avoided
some piles of logs blocking the road in some spot, the river was widened gradually, and its depth
became greater: gnats disappeared, the palms vines were more rare, until they were replaced by
palms palm fronds. Each bank of sand covered saw skimmers, gulls and Caprimulgus, which nest on
the beaches, simply by depositing their eggs on the sand.

Slowly the days succeeded each by frequent stops to my rowers, the that in spite of the influence
that I had come to take upon them, often jumping to the ground, not wanting to obey, to chase
through the woods, and flocks of turkeys the mountain, and the boar, and a troop of large Marimon,
who understand the damage Agen our meeting seemed to go merrily jumping over the trees, until
a EXPERIENCE late and painful taught to distrust the man.

Meanwhile, the banks were constantly encouraged by all sorts of wild animals, that came out
of the woods to frolic on the beach or on the trees of the hillsides. Very Often a large beast,
suddenly surprised with our arrival, he would abruptly in flight, sometimes a capybara, sliding
with alacrity to the gorge, was hiding in the water further, a deer asleep, waking up early,
ran about among the forest from time to time turning his head to examine it again. Occasionally
also heard at the distance the roar of the tiger

.