 

Now there is hope to establish another, with the name of Our Father San Ignacio, south, in Zamucos,
which are over two hundred thousand souls, and immediately the Ugarana, who have the same people.

Zamucos
such as we saw in Chapter XIX how rose and fled, killing his brother
Alberto Romero and his colleagues Chiquitos.

Not so lost our hopes of reducing Missionaries, before the more opposition was the devil, are more embarrassed
to remove their claws hell these souls.

Then sought to shape, how to reduce them again.

To this effect entered the PP. Philip Smith and Augustine and having traveled ninety Castañares
leagues, arrived at a village Zamucos, and then it was reduced.

The following year came the PP. Agustin Jaime Aguilar and Castañares, and having left to April
29, walked the ninety miles that year and found desert history the
people they were before.

Later spent twenty leagues to another town where he led the defeat. Found it to its residents,
who welcomed peace.

Would be that people called Cucutades, fifty families, governed by three main chiefs, one of
whom was absent.

After much clamor of the infidel them Parent proposed to his departure to that land, which was
to stay between them and help them as to the Chiquitos.

Thank unbelievers visiting, and one after another said the two main
Parents did not want on their land, they slept there that night and
the next day return, because if they want to stay would move elsewhere.

Parents

felt this much unexpected response, but with all that they expected that resolution would move
later, and in truth, they pretended they saying then liked and for them to stay among them, rather
than always were referred to the views of the main missing, and said come and in good spirits.

Esperáronle
from the 27th of May, and this delay, to win the will of the people,
thirty spots were distributed to the Indians, which is what they cherish,
and to the many Indian beads, with which everyone was happy, as unbelievers
and Christians Parent Chiquitos, though among them there were those
who reached the pretense of the barbarians.

They waited until Saturday, the eve of the Holy Trinity, which came
the main missing, and was sucking and sorcerer.

Came screaming in her village and plaza, saying he was god of those lands and people and that
they were the Parents where he was.

The Fathers, seeing that it was necessary then use gravity to bring down the pride of that Minister
of the devil, he replied that they had to go, but he had to come where they were. At last he did
so. He came where were the parents, they received him seated. Say what the other two major had
said before, I did not want Padres on their land, because the Parents
are their children die and other such nonsense, adopted by all the
people, arming and grime all but one of the principal who had now
been before and was half in doubt.

At this time other people came away the killer's brother Albert with twelve or Thirteen of his men,
who with his persuasions confirmed the people in their resolution.

Parents watching their hardness, were obliged to turn around, as they did, and came the village
she had left on June 16, carrying ten souls who wanted to own in itself to go with them to become
Christians Reduction, though the Padres were not without hope that others would follow after,
as in fact happened, and to these and with others.

Because giving them infidels and having no deaths Ugarana a and the other hand, came to San
Juan two biases that were twenty families and came to those people to February 25, 1723.

They were from two villages in Zamucos; the one called Quiripecodes, came to the chief Sofiáde
two brothers, Albert and brother killers of ten families in which
there were fifty souls.

The other, called Cucutades came Omate captain, who was the last year had put the fathers of all
their lands, and brought nine families of their vassals, who were
forty and two souls.

Ninety-two, then, without being called and guests now came running from the Ugarana they made
war and said they would come after others. But having fallen ill plague all, were terrified
and said they wanted parents to their lands, which granted be returned
to them.

For this reason, on June 30 released on P. Superior of the Missions Francisco Hervás with P. Reduction
Castañares to found among them.

They arrived after forty days' journey to the towns of Zamucos, they found totally deserts in search
of them was alone with the Indians P. Chestnut, and so far no know what has stopped.

Fr Hervas Francisco Superior came to the indigenous peoples so prostrate with fatigue strength
and his continued ailments, that having to be there in a most helpless, was obliged to become,
and having arrived fifteen leagues from San Juan, we went to confess P. Juan Bautista Xandra, aplicóle
a remedy, which encouraged Fr Hervás and was able to shoulder Indians
at San Juan, where she was given the other sacraments and applied
some other remedies, but without effect, for being very weak and burning
fevers, and finally died Two days later, to August 24, 1723, taking
61 years of age, 44 and 27 Company profession of votes.

And although his heroic virtues and great works of justice demanded
hiciese relationship is life here, but the lack of news on the distance
we impugn Now in this example and consolation to another day.

And this is what has so far been done to reduce to the Zamucos, which
we hope will happily get the fervent zeal Missionaries.

LAUS DEO.

PROVINCIAL MEMORIAL

P. JOSEPH BARREDA

THE MARQUIS DE Valdelirios

MEMORIAL

THE P. OF
THE PROVINCE

OF

PARAGUAY

SUBMITTED TO THE LORD

MARQUIS DE Valdelirios

THAT
WILL APPEAL

SUSPEND THE RULES OF WAR

AGAINST THE INDIANS OF MISSIONS.

Cordoba

de Tucuman

1753.

Royal Commissioner, the Marquis of Valdelirios:

Joseph Barreda, of
the Society of Jesus, Superior Provincial of Paraguay, it seems to
VS in force for the Royal Commission is understood in the treaties
dividing line between the two Crowns of Spain and Portugal, will serve
as the cries heard in justice that the province wishes to express
its most faithful allegiance to that until now this has obeyed blindly
and quickly return the royal charters and all orders lead to the evacuation
of seven villages in missions that are between the river and the banks
Abiquy Uruguay river that, according to the usual treaty, to be delivered
to the domains of Portugal, and leaving the Indians who now inhabit
other territories belonging to the Crown Spain, transferring to them
their property and livestock and making new towns and churches, plow
land to keep their fruit.

To this end, and he has to VS that before arriving in Buenos Aires
and to this province, had actuated all the steps that allowed me time
to comply with the provisions effective MRP our General, who with
equal commitment prevented us if possible we had those people evacuated
before he reached his hand VS and we might receive the ballot papers
in which the King our Lord sent us the same, and indeed, when received,
whether had begun to conquer the will of the Indians with the powerful
persuasions the Missionaries and I had mentioned in my place while
going in person to enforcement of the Ordinances, and having agreed
to leave their villages, they began to leave them some explorers in
search of relevant sites and lands for transmigration what has to
VS and P. Luis Altamirano by letters from the missions in response
orders received in that city, where he also sent me some land map
provided somewhat less, though all are apart of the seven towns, some
do not were far less than 200 miles of them for the move which map
showed and gave to V. S. as proof of prompt obedience to that from
the first notice and order of MRP General began to act and were acting
in the most appropriate measures for the desired attempt.

But among the serious difficulties that were offered in such an arduous endeavor, I did this VS to
that most intractable and even was in the limited time that was granted for such vast transmigration,
which, in view of the most experienced parents of those countries was physically impossible in
the narrow space of six months, because it moved and still convinced Fr Commissioner Luis Altamirano
to ask VS to grant at least three years term, This also represented the King our Lord, making
a demonstration that in less time was attempting an impossible and thus compel their subjects
rendered not to execute according to the same natural forces that wanted to obey.

But having no fixed time determined by VS, but was prevented only with all brevity and title other
than to pity any culpable omission dissemble, had to pass Fr Commissioner Luis de Altamirano in person
to these missions, and put them started with imponderable commitment, zeal and efficiency to act
was committed, with such heartfelt desire that were run after all warned that no mistake or
omitted to take action instantly the performance of its prudent orders and means that were
so quick to PP. Missionaries to obey its mandates, which forces them even the PP. elderly
and sick worked to encourage the Indians, sometimes with prayers and other threats, making
them of the obligation they had to obey his master and how well they would be exposed to the
fatigue and even lose their property to prove their past loyalty.

But as the slow and spacious natural Indian violence was either accelerated motion, and its
delayed and low intelligence was so strange and intelligible novelty which were proposed by
conceiving very contrary to the peaceful possession of their homes, crops and property have
very close his heart, a few days of what had promised to the PP., began calling deception
and excuse, and with the short time they were given, and with the many jobs prevented them in the
ways in transporting their cattle, goods and families, and more re
hard to build new churches and houses, and declaring resistant, appealed:
some would be less bad to stay under the dominion of the Portuguese,
but others, who were more clearly said they could not believe that
the King our Lord, who for so many cards they had promised to protect
them and defend their lands of their enemies, could fail to respect
and have promised to remove the natural law that had acquired and
owned by more 130 years, because for so rigorous punishment were not
having committed any sin against King, before, yes, they were very
satisfied with the services they had repeatedly tried prove their
obedience, giving their blood and lives to defend their sovereign
domains.

These and other reasons, they have fixed in their memories, sought the PP. dispel many expressions
are all dictated by his desire, and that the Indians might be able; but not having to respond to
the vivid and effective appeals of the Fathers had fully closing their ears to their voices, and
breaking the brake of obedience, which for many years had sugetado, began to break his respect,
saying out loud did not want could not move because this will be their king and lord, but the invention
of the PP. that secretly had agreed with the Portuguese through P.
Commissioner, to whom they as such, and even claimed some had known
him lay in the Rio de Janeiro, but not giving up Parent of its efforts,
before it, agreeing to not only persuade them to private reasons,
but fervent convert to public preaching, called to the churches, and
a crucifix in his hands, and some on their knees and shed many tears,
I intimated that they should expect punishment from the hand of God
and His sovereign king if they did not obey soon its mandate, in this
powerful assault force was cut to the Indians, and asking forgiveness
for his disobedience, vowed again amended, beginning with the PP.
Then, and before to cool the fervor, to have horses, wagons and other
equipment to undertake the road, which in reality led out some of
the PP., ranging as leaders to enforce its slowness and interior desolation,
but a few days, with the jaded road and dragged them to love their
homes, they were returning to their villages, leaving them PP. alone
and mocked in the countryside, but not by that gave up the PP. this
enterprise, before, yes, conservative concealing his contempt and
inconstancy, they returned to find them, upbraiding as promised, but
they, and quite unrepentant and even spiteful, took on average to
get rid of the instances of the PP., threatening with death, really
Father tried to give the parish priest of San Miguel, and now his
companion Father was in the stays, which would certainly have died
if the order of P. Commissioner, that informed of his danger, had
not been removed fugitives, because it showed their depraved mind
a young man who accompanied Fr Cura, returning shortly after the people
to take some horses it shattered them released.

This same contempt tried to do with Fr Commissioner, 600 men for preventing Irlo to search
the village where he lived, and having been advised by five eminent voices danger of his life,
had to retire wisely, understanding that his presence irritated his anger, and that withdrawal
could settle this blind passion.

After that came the P. Commissioner continued the PP. Missionaries who was obeying the instead,
without flagging a point in your quest, but no more fruit than the angry Indians every day, continuing
their threats and venting his anger in the magistrates, as Ministers
of the Fathers, who have used that, persuading his way, encourage
by example, but they also have attempted to kill, and to one of them
only the grief of its dangers and died a few days after he was rushed,
and four others were this badly wounded, and without courage or hope
of resisting the Indians who are faithfully persuaded that the PP
is fiction. and no will of his King to take away the land have owned
for more than 130 years, whose right it has repeatedly confirmed its
sovereign bonds and that this good faith have made a few people who
are not as they say villages, but exceeding their factories to most
of the cities, etc..

These provinces, in their homes and sheltered
tiled roofs of stone corridors to walk by them without getting wet
rainy season and that their churches are so gorgeous, that has the
least cost to their jewelry, they came to 100,000 pesos fuertes, outside
the San Miguel they worked for ten years and 80 daily, and 100 men
whose factory is all stone, when valued at least $ 200,000, we add
the tender memories of their herbal gardeners, who have raised and
spent in his neat work and culture more than thirty years for being
the fruit of the continued drink morning and evening, and whose value
in the 7 villages will be 100,000 pesos, also are turning to their
fields of cotton, fruit that makes them the yarns and their fabrics
for underwear and outerwear they wear big and small, widows and orphans,
whose value in the 7 people is not below the herbal, and ultimately
do this to let people out of their in their rooms more than 100,000
head of livestock of sheep, cows, horses and mules that serving and
maintaining their lives and those of their families and almost all
villages Uruguay and Parana, which was and is here replaced the cattle
of their stays to avoid they ran at all for them not for their smallness
and quality able to multiply, they need for support and service, and
see that having to move these cattle to other land is for them impossible
task and find themselves not for them, and because as though he had
imagined at a distance of over a hundred leagues, his leadership is
to his imagination another hard impossible, and if his eyes closed
the wished difficulty overcome, this is a function that calls, a few
months time, but of years, with very bent fatigue.

These thoughts have opposed tough PP. warning them that the cattle could not out, it would pay the
King our Lord as it was prevented, to which they respond not be maintained or with money or with
promises but with the heads of their cattle, and so, although they were paid in gold doubloons,
will not buy it where necessary for their livelihoods and in the meantime will perish of hunger
in the desert where the parents love get banished, and that ultimately sad cry sometimes with groans
and others with rabid furor ask parents what crime they have committed against their king and
master for punishment worthy of the most treacherous vassals. To this end are very tender memory
card 28 December 1743 in which he looked Mr. Philip V of glorious memory, give pleasure of
their services (as others sent the governor of Buenos Aires D. Bruno Zavala they are made acquainted
by public crier) and keeping in mind the words of the last paragraph, which are:

"And finally, in recognition of what is referred to in the above points
and other ancient and modern papers, seen in my counsel with the reflection
that asks business circumstances so severe, that is justified true
facts did not in any part of India more return to my domain and vassalage
and of these peoples, or the Royal Patronage and jurisdiction Real
church and so rendered as verified by the frequent visits of church
prelates and governors and are blind obedience to his orders, especially
when they are called to defend the land or any other company, 4,000
or 6,000 men getting ready armed to go where they send, and so on.

"

Now therefore, the Indians say the Fathers, if we obeyed our sovereign, he himself declares,
and the rebellion has sugetado Paraguay with 12,000 armed men and stripping twice the Portuguese
colony of Sacramento, and being the third time in encircling it with 6,000 men for four months,
we also won if not pregnant and lately the Spanish king renouncing our lord over a million
hard dollars that were to be spent on these expeditions we stayed to our coast and our sweat
and labor, ask me again, Parents, these are crimes to punish us our King with perpetual exile of our
people and houses and universal deprivation of all our real estate and furniture? This scheme can
only be misleading the Portuguese, and collision of you with them and treason from us your
are arming beginning of our conversion, and not without reason is We fear our ancestors, and
finally, the treason that no excuses with them, because you could not want to run the now with us
or our poor children.