 

When the founder of your dynasty in these countries showed the latest chief Almohads they could not,
in the tocsin of those bloody events, hence the huge transport home treasures, treasures that they
had been eking and ever increasing Sultan sultan and dynasty dynasty, and by the inheritance and
conquests, and the arts and wonders of the occult sciences, which were well versed. In spite
of losing everything this empire that Fortune gave to your family in fraud of their own, the
chief Almohades invisible left all his treasures and wealth in underground houses these huge
castles and palaces, with such art and such cabalistic secrets that Suleiman only, or whoever
owns the ring, there may be at hand and grab both happy treasure.

This is the case that the HIAL wonderful necklace was formerly among
the treasures of Almohades, and while there was, by the prodigious
power and virtue of such a jewel, the rule and the chance of that
dynasty were increasing, not having begun to eclipse his glory to
extinction, which you know, but from the point for an adventure of
love, which case is not now entertain you with her, left the collar
of that family, and came into possession of yours, who has since started
to aggrandize in the current year and the Fortune favors.

For the Alafrit, which is stored in these treasures, which is flattering eternal family Almohades
and sworn enemy of yours, knows the virtues of wonderful necklace. According to the decrees
of the sages and wizards that linked it to the vigilant custody of such wealth by the formulas and
figures of the occult necromantic, expected to be in continuous stalking could offer timely
and worthwhile opportunity to return to possess the priceless jewel
the collar.

The Alafrit wanted this for the fortune to be free and open to the sentinel continuous, also
played with distinction for listening and watch tower three hundred years ago, and thus be able
to fly to the mountains of Kaf, its habitual residence.

This is the case that there is love with a girl of her kind, something few people, it has no more
than three farasangas the ankle to the front, but not ugly. His nose is well delighted and tornátil
and the Giralda in Esbilia, his eyes are somewhat slanted, but each will be greater than the
Bay of Ghadir, their eyebrows are two beautiful forests of oak and
brambles, and all other adherents of this tenor.

The girl wants to marry, the Alafrit another such, and your foresight has brought the soup to
honey, the bite of the mouth.

You should know that this beautiful necklace, hope for your future, and has been home the greatness
of your family, makes it perfect balance and form, inseparable, with your famous Dul-Cahir
cutlass, which was a while the victorious sword of Ali, Allah bless
them If you had led necklace, if HIAL even take the cutlass, and you
thought to separate you from your side, the disaster did not take
place, but you left, or, rather, aside for a moment Dul-Cahir to the
collar, and the occasion was presented to Alafrit by the forelock,
then he was not or foolish, or grab one arm to stop a good way.

It was he who sent the blue butterfly to provoke a slave Encirnún HIAL and to hunt and chase that
deviate of his entourage and entourage, and approach suitable site for the start.

About this I remember, my brother Mohamad, forgetting that you have stumbled as monarch about the
beautiful Encirnún, slave, which can be queen anywhere where cult of beauty. The Alafrit, saw her
as if with one hand gripped the collar, with the other engarfió the beautiful blind, fond
of her comely figure as you could so if you find playing among the flowers with a esclavillos
sizes as pins. Jayan think that this so cute take the lady that she is granted in the mountains
Kaf, that riding on his ear Encirnún left, the gently scrape with
a hoe that side of the head, an operation that flatters very sweetly.

Encirnún resigned himself certainly a big failure, as should any slave who falls for his guilt
in a situation so sad, but either I'm much mistaken, or this girl has to get crazy to noble-Hasam
Nachum, the genius who saved the Alafrit treasures, and will not be surprising that a slave
becomes Queen of the Fairies. This, moreover, would be nice to you, brother, Mohamad, as well 'd
hope to regain your necklace for the good affection of the slave, for I warn my brother, that your
family is missing a wonderful gem, this talisman of such virtue, sooner or later has to lose the
empire. But back to HIAL.

Píntate in your imagination, brother Mohamad, what would be your wife the beautiful and tender suddenly
see before him the giants of the huge misshapen Alafrit its height, almost double that of the bride,
whose description I have done, with his eyes like, each Belet the pen, if you were burning with
brimstone, with the burners on their noses equal two lime steaming and boiling, with its two
legs of Solomonic figure, each consisting of two huge serpents coiled, with his beard woven scrubs
and ancient roots trees, and other charms of this sort. The girl had expired at the point, if
the powerful under the collar had not attended.

The necklace resisted in part the fascination that infernal demon, but the point was taken as
the white neck, HIAL fell, not dead, but it vanished in deep pinnacle, but keeping the faint
inside knowledge.

In short, HIAL, when not sleeping in the same fading that is submerged, hears, understands and knows.
All other powers of his mind on hold, but achieving come back to tame course cheering gifts that
child, and divine existence, is difficult, near impossible, but in the hands is the timbrel,
Mohamad brother, well I know it ring.

If we were to hand a pen pink birds flying in paradise, only to flatter her nose a little snow
on the faint, sneeze three times and woke up happy and saved as an
unpleasant dream, but as this is not possible, will force a choice
between remaining two remedies alone.

If you want, brother, Mohamad, see the girl enter these lounges, dancing and bounded about
like a blue Houri, made with fresh pink cheeks, and two suns for eyes, singing like a nightingale
and chattering like a grown woman, let me take her for three days ...

- That's not - answered the Sultan.

- That no! That no! - Ben-Farding
said something angrily -.

Well, then, the cure shall in all form, that is, it will be long and tedious. It is therefore necessary,
if you want, brother Mohamad, HIAL is conducted every morning half an hour before the sun dawns own
site, next to that fountain and lush pear below it, where it was found fainted after the disaster.
There will be given to smell, in shaded clusters, all Generalife flowers, and still bring it closer
to the lips of pear fruit and streams of the source for such aromas and as gifted as simple
delicacies produced in the beautiful Sultana the magical effect I suppose. Then, in the same
place, forming a purse silk cushions and pillows, and carpeting the
ground with Alcatifa of Persia, so that the HIAL can hear the pretty
little, stories will have paths like that that can best or know the
slaves, slaves or people who excel in such enviable pilgrim talent.

If stories or stories that are told are so wonderful and wonders,
and gives some faint beautiful sign of admiration, or whether the
tragic and pathetic they pull a tear, or being of witticisms and jokes
move the heavenly smile of HIAL, HIAL is saved, and little by little
come to herself giving a little sigh and half opening his eyes dove.

At your informal care, the good will of these heroic wise to me here listen, my servants or porters
chair, and, above all, the great art of pleasing Abu-el-casino Guard captain African touches and
concerns exhume them, seek and find many of those recounted of jadices and stories, or novels
or tragic holiday storytellers, and out of them anyone who knows of the wonders of his story,
thanks for your words or the galas of his invention and salts of its jokes, put into play as delicate
sensitive powers simpa mood of HIAL.

And with that I say goodbye, I live far

brother Mohamad, by now grace the ceremonies and procession with me here led, and the scaffolding,
harnesses, chariot and shots that I porter, who is already sick madness going on slopes of
wisdom.

Ben-Farding saying this, jumped from his huronera, gave three or four a run around the room,
nincompoop and sprat shook the dazzled Wazir, Kadis, and officers of couch, and whiz went the
Alhambra, as Bozzo fired by strong arm of well-tempered crossbow.

Arabic novel [2]

FIRST LETTER

OF A VELID NAZARÉ Abenza

    
    You bathed in the dew of pleasure, and your friend covered in dust
and sweat on the border!

You won by a woman, and your friend triumph of the Spaniards!

When I booted up on your side for mayor of Zahara [3], you promised
me cum to me before Zefar's moon [4], and two months have flown no
see.

They tell me that Lecrín Valley [5] got off to Grenada with intent to go with a band of riders
on the journey without your help come to end. But instead of seeing to the front of your knights,
I hear you at the feet of a woman. Outside her more beautiful than that captivated Abdalazis, you
should you leave your friend, your brother, for glory, finally, by
order so mean!

But who is? What is your name?

How do you see? ... Because I've offended your abandonment Do you want to offend more with your
guilty silence and reserve criminal?

When the danger is past, and the inputs and riots in the land of the Christians keep even better
time, for evil is more painful force to give men some encouragement and rest. So my confidence
bordering on sleep until the awakening of iron and fire in the flowers of spring. So, enjoy
your youth first green paradise in the city, and I find with your brave to Delhex Moon [6], typical
for war.

Enjoy life, dear Velid, investigating the stay of your beauty, throw
it and pursue it in mazes will know pawn, it will find more pleasure
than suing the deer by the cliffs of Jorail [7], but your heart was
always clean, undamaged and the glory and friendship are the only
jewels that must fill glass so precious.

Allah keep you. Alcazar de Zahara, in 9 of legumes [8].

THE SAME TO THE SAME

The Ali of Haquin, your messenger, I handed the letter in which I realize the disease Abunazar
and your father's pleas and sentences that have squandered to appease
the angry angel death.

How well I know in your loving concern, your informal care for whom you being given, the generous
spirit and fire that encourages you!

Although I was forced to spend a year with no hold, however well done what would entendiéndote
employee obligations as sacred.

Do not marvel that the king Ismael takes so on their The bad heart
father was saved twice by him, one in the field and one in the riots
the Alhambra, and both aspired to nothing, content with their lands
and his castle Lerín hereditary.

However, force is to the stars playing in favor of yielding sublime recovery and recreation
for the garden of Alijares [9], royal residence and all delight. What peaceful hours've liked
by those trees, reasoning with your good father, hearing the language of the birds or perhaps
the roses growing in Egypt or Persia the tulip!

Force was so delicious that you care harden the occasion of love, but in your letter, imposing
often than you judge for more substantial, shut up, perhaps with malice, the relationship more interesting
for your friend. You say you love and idolize you, you entered the palace of love through the door
of mystery that will not change your status by Kingdom of Fez ... But in the end, will not respond
to my questions: Who is it, how do you see?, Where is it? The companion of your childhood,
your friend begs you Abenza.

Although the few years that I have but you do not make me leave the old boy yet not lived in
vain. Before your visit to Granada early experience of my youth, I bought in exchange for endless
troubles, and this gives me authority over you that you will be disregarded foolish and not showing
the dangerous path where you walk. Goodbye.

A LETTER VELID Abenza

To you forward in the effort, the beautiful young men, comfort and friend of a friend. Velid Nazar,
greets you, brave Abenza:

Only your letters would wake up happy sleep of pleasure in which I
live, but waking up I am in the arms of other feelings even sweeter,
which is friendship, "sweeter I? "Whether I uttered a profanity?

My heart can serve as a ring and eternal union a nature so heavenly! You want to know the beginning
of this madness ... they hear the story.

An afternoon stroll with my father through the streets of spacious orchard fruit where we dwell,
and that the King gave his old friend to the relief of their illness, and recreation in your
sorrow.

On one side stood the towers of the Alhambra, and closer to the high spire Generalife [10] reflecting
the rays of the sun, weakened in the white peaks of Belet and Muley Hacen [11].

My father left me alone for those orchards, I ran vanished and dreaming
of the time to rush towards you, dear friend.

In these thoughts perhaps I started to sing, as usual, the melancholy of the singers letrillas
Cairo and Cordoba, about to pass fronting the palace of Generalife. Then I saw ajimez highest
open and close uncertainly two or three times without anyone appearing on the chest, until finally
he soltáronse several pigeons fluttering whimsically by the ramparts of the walls and the buds of trees,
little or no imagination that moved me the chance, I took it for innocent fun of a captive or
a slave unhappy unhappy. Followed, then, my back and recogíme flowers in the box that I enjoy
growing a sad and sweet abandon that inspires a serene afternoon sounding living water and the
delicious green of birch and hazel.

I sat down then, and poppy eyes to enjoy pleasure so soft, I felt
between leaves something happened and seethed: curious sight lay around,
and saw, astonished, a mullioned window of doves softly mysterious
haunted me almost to kiss me with his pen, not be embarrassed by my
presence.

And more careful, I began to flatter her with my voice, pretending its coo, when to my utter
amazement I look standing on my shoulders, bringing outstanding neck with a ribbon color of
Lily, a ticket collected and soaked with delicate folds aromas of roses. I untied (flew the dove)
and I see the most beautiful kufic these flattering and mysterious reasons:

"Beautiful sun, the pristine charm and delight of watching your eyes, be quiet and listen my voice:
a kinder houri the paradise of the believers is burned in a fire for you purer than the light from
the east, and silent suffering, and sighs for you: when you approach
it stained with the color of the desert rose, and if you talk, your
heart beats like leaves from trees when approaching the storm, his
voice is soft like frankincense from Ethiopia their eyes are a gazelle,
shy and live in an own point, and feel of its members is thin cashmere
fabrics.

Deserves to be yours, because it deserves the Saudi kingdom, and you must be yours, because
you are virtuous. His love is hidden in the urn of decorum: it out, since, as the pearl of Hormuz
out of the shell nacre, and be happy.

"If you do not love, she will die as the flower of sand, look for it and discover it, and take
these signals for recognition. The beginning and end of their name is the Aleph [12]. His tribe
is king of Yemen [13], when you look and you do not see, her eyes moist and hesitant as the
waters Piélago the wounds of the sun.

"Heaven preserve you, beautiful girl, and enjoy more happiness than Betmendí [14]. Keep secret
as its arcane nature and his deep sea depths. Goodbye, goodbye, do not think is all that seems
frivolous such. Goodbye.

The Queen of the Fairies. "

Oh, dear Abenza!

    Leaves or flowers when they break the corolla, are so numerous or
as vivid hues and diverse as the thoughts that my chest opened the
imaginations love, when I finished drink up the reasons mysterious
enchanted ticket.

A seething fire spinning through my head, and an opium the sweetest
ladies all my being: my those pretty eyes were still drawn characters
with gold and blue, and my mind, launched and in the path of illusions,
the shadows ran quickly after misleading havens Air: Abenza oh, what
been so heavenly!

Arranquéme finally that dream of delight, and curiosity led me out of the room where I was hiding,
to haunt the windows and towers Generalife find myself imagining
other most significant signs of my happiness.

All was in vain: the darkness of the night overcame and the evening twilight, and moon, suspended
in the heavens and golden lamp, threw its rays before the giant shadows of the cubes and paintings
from the wall.

In those orchards nothing is heard but the sound of the waterfalls
or the whistles of blackbirds and nightingales who sought the nest
between the willow and honeysuckle, for the battlements nothing crossing,
and only looked doubtfully shine some light on this or that in the
lofty mullioned dressing rooms of the palace: Abenza oh, what anticipation!

What concerns! The falcon hears his side of the heron flying and be unable to see, hidden by
a cloudscape, have no more suffering.

My imagination was forged thousand delirious visions of the impossible, which is enjoyed in
defeat at will, and uploaded pleasure and adorned with the magical
colors of the desires, painted my last term in this fantastic picture.

But do not think that the embittered missing in this my first sip
from the chalice of love, no, Abenza; pain absinthe treacherously
slips between the lips of youth, and this sentence of yours as long
as an omen sounded in my ears.

Scoffed at the idea of ??finding the nuncio of my fortune, I fell
in other such strange thoughts, that even I was right to explain them,
and even with much effort I can descifrártelos in partly because there
are things that you can not express them as feel them.

I thought then that the dove, auditorium of love, so rare that if
placed in my hands ticket flight could have done another lover, and
I unfortunately fortunate innocent would have intercepted the mail
and surprised a secret so lovingly interesting.

So jealous of this that even unknown to me, jealous of a rival imaginary frenzy against unknown
beauty who could love other than me, gave me all the ravings the fury, as if there were really
for my hurt an unfaithful wife and a loving choice.

Dildo breath the atmosphere of the night, soaked with scented flowers, and fresh the banks of
the Darro, calmed down my forehead and tempered the ardor of my weary
brow.

How presumed why I envy the love of others more fortunate, who could reward the sky with them their
virtues, and the Prophet his courage and constancy?

Abenza Oh!, It showed these reasons, the clearer understanding my
worried mind, but never succeeded in extracting from it the first
seal of anger, or do not know what other feelings indefinable.

Does the human heart is always set as the center of the universe, and to judge that all ideas
of grandeur, beauty, sublime, must go to him alone? Will I, vain and proud (I am ashamed to
say), I believed with the right only in the world the love of that beauty invisible, just as my
imagination painted her with gifts so heavenly? Or, dear Abenza, the power of this blood that
burned in Saudi encourages my heart, will, like in all our tribe, the fatal gift of light from
the faintest idea of ??love rave horrible volcano and jealousy? What would I have you given next
to me in those moments of longing and sorrow, and find comfort in your tips and best experience?

But
it was in vain, the solitude was my only company, do not hide that on the wings of my thoughts
coming, which iris comforter, more flattering hope to dispel those anger.

I could not give perhaps the uncertain number of mullioned windows
open, the wandering of the pigeons and hovered around me that the
bar and the letter.

Embedded in these ramblings, and more lover who never flower box where they had a scene so flattering,
I turned to enjoy its freshness, at that point further enhanced with
gentle streams of light that the moon All your hard packed, poured
from between the festoons of green that was so florida mansion.

Oh dear friend! That was for me the day of illusions, still wandering in my fancy so contrary
thoughts, not knowing how many hours of the night would run, when I another appearance no less
strange than the first.

And CATUR ALICAK

O THERE ARE MANY AS TWO MINISTERS

Shall be removed from his sad sorrow, but never evil for their wickedness.

Arabic

    sentence.
    

    Caleb rode gently in a magnificent Egyptian donkey, heading for the
route, from Esbilia, the right guide to the city of Cordoba, the Caliph
then purple.

In proportion as the walking distance is shortened, the donkey showed himself very light and toddler,
as if the smell of a large population and famous court will announce the next meeting some
individuals of his large family.

The ass, I say, so calm itching and a pasitrote so calm and smooth
that the rider, giving your fancy, I was saying in his mind this way:

"In
schools Cuf few equals, and none stood out on my reputation: I know
for the Suras semicolons [15] of the Koran, the Sunna decisions [16]
and those of Cadiz.
