 

Removed-Principe Puerto Libertador while working to organize a new expedition yielding to the instances
that several distinguished leaders and officers of the army had directed, and indeed already
had with Brion, whose ships, together formed the de Villaret a respectable squad and with
several Italian officers of the disbanded army of Napoleon, with the Spanish general Francisco
Javier Mina had arrived in Haiti at that time. Acts preparations left the port of Jacmel, and on
December 28, after a voyage of seven days, landing at John Greek expedia a clear proclamation of
the causes and reasons separation of command and the urgent need to assemble a Congress in Margarita
for establishment of a government appropriate to the circumstances, in accordance with the will
peoples freedom from oppression, and the last day of the year, entering Barcelona, again made
the head of the army.

Cumplianse these events and at the same time took refuge in the Venezuelan territory patriots who escaped
the bloody knife Morillo, owner and New-Granada. Among them were several chiefs and officers of
merit, both Granada and Venezuela, and just as they reached Guadaslito to give unity and effectiveness
of joint efforts - such His purpose was at least - set up a government, naming as President of the
Republic the ex-governor of Pamplona, ??Lt. Col. Fernando Serrano, and Urdaneta, to Servier Dr.
Francisco Javier Yanes Councillors of State, as chief Colonel Santander Army. This government
was stillborn because the Venezuelan leaders aspired to concentrate power in a single head of
trust between the prairie, so that they would lead to war vested with an absolute character,
and relinquishing control Santander, went to Paez, who board to the rank of brigadier general.
Allego soon became frightening people and on plains to the royalist troops, later defeated by
him in several meetings.

In early 1817, liberated the island of Margarita, recovered the provinces of Barcelona and Cumana,
and owners and the plains of Venezuela Caracas, Paez had occupied the territory lying between the
Arauca and Apure, Piar I kept harassing the enemy in Guyana and thanks to the excesses of Morillo
who had inflamed the minds of the prairie, war face had changed and to entirely domestic,
but still remained to conduct the great work to discipline the army, cutting the flight to
the ambitions of some leaders, born of the same disorder that was previously shrouded the cause
of independence.

Crowned Bolivar was some success in Guyana, when he heard that Morillo, back and in Venezuela,
bringing his people with that of Colonel Don Jose Aldama in Chapman, the 13th of May, was preparing
to spend the Orinoco in front of 6,000 men, and Marino, hoping as always to the supreme command, a
Congress met in Cariaco coating powers to legislate and to the farce which represented the Liberator's
resignation offer with his own to get that coveted distinction.

This Congress, without lawful authority, appointed as officers of the generals legitimate power
Fernando Toro and Simon Bolivar, with Colonel Francisco Javier Maiz and alternates Zea Colonel Vallenilla
and Madariaga, who had just arrived from the Spanish mainland. Marino was struck by the general in
chief of the army, and Brion, accomplice in this crazy business, amounted to no less than Admiral.
Although Piar show its commitment to such a project, most of the heads of division, as well
as the officers and troops, unanimous all and knowing the merits
of his real boss, said the firm resolution to follow their orders,
and reprobate Bolivar solemnly publish and Cariaco Assembly.

Before long, deeply convinced of his error, I Liberlador Brion to his squad with which and the squad
Antonio Diaz came out of the same Pampalar 31 May, and after a few fights in the patriots fought
with his usual gallantry, submitted Guiana. While verifying the operation, Brigadier Don Jose de Canterac,
leading of 3,000 Spaniards, arrived at the Morro de Barcelona and Republican Piar, driven by
ambition, slowly undermined the stability of possessions reached, promoting discord between heads,
encouraging the troops to the rebellion and reviving the long forgotten
idea of ??colors and racial differences.

Such behavior could not be tolerated in a time when the union was as necessary to go from strength
to strength to conquer independence. So arrest order of Bolivar, was taken to Angostura, court-martialed
and sentenced to death. Brion performance the role of president of the court, and the execution
of the sentence pronounced against the defendant took place on October 16, 1817, producing the
most excellent results in army, as well reestablished some discipline, I affirm the supreme authority,
and gave a high idea and strangers, friends and enemies, that the
military government, chaos until then.

After this event, sensitive as the Liberator who had fought a thousand times next of such a valiant
soldier, he heads worthy of their confidence in front of the liberated provinces Council of State
created a right to consult with on matters of war and in the governmental, deliberative vote
in the administrative and economic capital at the same time declaring and temporary residence of
the government of the city of Angostura Venezuela. Finally, I teach a law which commanded national
divide property just rule and proportion between their companions in arms, and, after ordering
Zaraza Monagas and his horse covered with first the plains of Caracas and the second those of
Barcelona, ??the Liberator traces the Orinoco with all his might,
going to join the army commanded by Paez in Apure, which which was
created by January 1818.

The expiring year had been fruitful in good results for the republican arms, no only in Venezuela
but also in Buenos-Aires, and the proclamation of independence Chile did, but the first year that gave
them was to be unfortunate. In a place called Rincon of the Bulls, San Jose near the Tiznados
the night of April 16, a realistic game for the dark, boldly penetrated into the camp of Bolivar,
this having been seen in danger of losing his life, heaven will retain
one more time as necessary to triunfu of the sacred cause.

Hallab in Guyana after reorganizing his troops and separating from the many disasters that had
afflicted since that fatal night, when a commissioner of the province of Granada Casanare was presented
to inform you that Paez, ignoring their authority and the Council government, had been raised
by the army of Apure to the dignity of the first chief and director highest in the country. The
same messenger brought the custom of asking him to appoint a loyal person and capable, responsible
for overall command, regularize the operations in his province. Bolivar gave a manifesto that
not only limited to condemn the uprising, but which stretched to take on the villain come
face to those under a hypocritical appearance were sold as their friends and national independence.
Then ordered that Francisco de Paula Santander, promoted to brigadier general, with Jacinto Lara,
several excellent officers and lieutenant colonels Granada Antonio Obando, Francisco Velez, Joaquin
and Vicente Paris Gonzalez, weapons, ammunition and other pass to Casanare as chief operating
officer of a body advanced that there was to be formed and maintained
to, later, to invade New Granada and restore the freedom that had
deprived Morillo.

In vain fortune, turning their backs on the most consistent and well-deserving of Venezuelans
their time, trying to humiliate and snatch the enthusiastic love for his country he professed,
in vain discharged on, in a formidable storm, defections and cruel blows, amid the storm, as
the steep palm hit by the hurricane is folded to stand up to great strength, so proud of the
unwavering encouragement reworked warrior of the ups and downs whipped him, and always calm, always
confident in the goodness of their cause, neglecting the attacks that promoted his rivals, continued
to handle the organization of a government that strengthening freedom, which he had devoted his
whole life, till the future welfare of his country and on October
10, proposed to the State Council convened the meeting to the effect
of Congress.

Somewhat later, on November 20, fearing that the European powers requested by the Spanish government,
almost convinced of the futility of their efforts, arrived to lend support for the preservation
of its colonies, issued a famous decree which declared clear "that the people of Venezuela
was determined to bury all integers between from its ruins, for more
than Spain, Europe and even the world, arrived to try nuevaments bending
under the yoke that were soon to shake.

"

This however, persecuted him adversity this year until the last day, finally being watched forced
to give Guyana, following the course of the Orinoco in the direction of the plains of Apure,
when approaching the new year in order to consolidate the power of government between Republican
troops stationed there, and to object to in the theater probably
Morillo of its operations going amid all its setbacks, the thought
always fixed days of glory for himself and for his beloved homeland.

CHAPTER VIII

Vindication of Paez .-- The reconciliation .-- The leader of Apure amounts to general .-- Reunion Congress
and abdication of Bolivar who is honored with more glorious names of the father .-- Ideas of the
country over the republic .-- Proposal made by the Provinces .-- Congress represented in the
Legislature .-- Persistence of Bolivar in his resignation. Finally retains his command .-- Reinforcements
Foreigners - New hood .-- Victory .-- Bolivar Paez march to New-Granada
.-- Provisions Trip .-- military expedition and its results .-- Triumph
.-- Bolivar Boyaca Leakage Honda viceroy Liberator .-- Entry Bogota
governmental measures .-- .-- .-- His Angostura Bolivar efforts regarding
the Confederation .-- Birth of a Republic of Colombia.

Many and very important were the services rendered to the cause of independence by leader of
the Apure, and if ambition had been astray, the means employed to carry out had not strayed
from the holy order, they could not be regarded as solvents, since had emanated from the mad love
for the motherland and to some extent gave a good idea of diplomatic genius. Keeping in government
the Liberator, surrounded by illustrious and praiseworthy people had only sought the means
of making him leave empty his position as general-in-chief enter
to replace him in command.

This undermined the prestige or authority, or undermined the discipline nor the slightest amenguaba the
enthusiasm of the advocates of freedom.

Bolivar and Paez were in San Juan de Payara on January 16, 1819, and soon became reconciled
by the desire that both existed to lift the mood of the soldiers, some killed by the disasters of the
previous year, and march in good harmony from enfonces the noble purpose that they to put their
lives on the battlefield. So gathered an army of 2,000 horsemen and equal number of infants, more
or less, even a thousand men commanded by General Anzuategui and the division was headed by
Cedeno, and a seal of this alliance, a high Paez general division,
then delegates the command of all troops, in order to have what is
necessary for the reunion of Congress adjourned for the month of February,
was set Bolivar direction to go with Angostura.

Paez moved victorious over the plains, and the Congress of Guyana met February 15, Bolivar day that
before he deposed his supreme authority.

But this August body, after unanimously confirming the acts and provisions of retiring, he again
hailed Liberator Founding Father and terror of despotism, with the most sincere expression of
gratitude and affection.

Were known since 1815, the American champion held ideas about the Constitution of the republic,
its governance, its administration and name that was to carry. Would call Colombia, as a tribute
of justice, gratitude and honor the great man who gave the ancient world a new world, and as for the
rest, the form of government in England believed to be the most suitable for the new republic,
which would be composed of Venezuela, New Grenada and Quito.

Unlike the model nation for taking the king would be represented by an executive of choice, life at
most, but not hereditary, because if you opt for the Republic; a hereditary legislative Senate
and House, also legislative, free choice, without more restrictions than those of Lower England.

This
same proposal to Congress as soon as he was called to his sessions, extending their former
ideas with the formation of a moral power that called Areopagus. Composed of two different Chambers,
whose functions were: the one, the blurring of the education of children from birth until the
age of 12 years, and in the other, to punish the vices with the shame
and infamy, and should give the award to the public by virtue of honor.

Such innovation was dismissed, and as to the constitution that vote, Congress departed quite
a few of the requirements specified by Bolivar.

A general Congress, divided into two chambers of Representatives and Senate, would exercise legislature,
the latter being merely lifetime. Would have a President of the Republic for four years, and re-elected
only once in charge of exercising executive power. East although personally responsible to
the Congress by usurpation or misuse of the public revenue, betrayal, venality or conspiracy against
the State law, however enjoyed very broad faculties.

You would have a successor Vice-President in cases of dismissal, resignation or death. As for
the rest was great to affinity that existed between it and the Constitutional Code sanctioned in 1811
by Congress Miranda met on 2 March.

Caracas, Barcelona, ??Cumana, Varinas, Guyana and Margarita by Venezuela, and Casanare, Granada
province occupied only by the republican arms, were justly represented On this solemn occasion.
Bolivar Congress repeatedly stated that it will be good most of the supreme executive authority,
but after thousands and thousands of live bodies by of his companions, I accept the presidency,
which was vested with broad powers over both and military policies in the provinces that were
the theater of war. These powers could delegate them if necessary,
and while on campaign, the citizen Francisco Antonio Zea, as Vice-President,
exercise executive power.

Ministry of State is composed of the gentlemen: Colonel Pedro Briceno Mendez as Minister of War
and Marina, Diego Bautista Urbaneja of Interior and Justice, and Dr. Manuel Palacios of Finance.

About
the same time landed on Margarita Angostura and three bodies of troops raised in England, led
by Elsom, Inglés and Uzlar, which has served to complete Bolivar campaign plan, a combination
which was devoted seriously and with his usual activity. In consequence, Urdaneta Margarita with
organization in a division which was to consist of the two bodies of Englishmen who were there
with Inglés and Uzlar, and put in front of them After organizing other people of the country.
This done, the squad was to Brion directed to take Caracas and understood then the rear until
it joins forces with the army of the Apure, which would send the
Liberator in person. Meanwhile Marino, Eastern division, distract
the attention of the enemy in that direction