 Don Tadeo it took a lot of love: that
yes! There would have been treated better if only his son. The only thing I felt bad, was it
of cure him, but I could not help. If only he were a priest or as Torrero Muñoz Venegas and
Martin Velasco ...

- Calle you, by God, Don José.

Cures "liberal? They are the worst!

Pepe, Leocadia and her mother were silent, feeling there was talk of that, because Don Jose such
cases, just getting in a mood of all the devils, but Miller, who from time back had a desire
to know the history of the case, was gradually forcing the old to
the count.

- This gift would be delivered Tadeo people from church
...

- Cabalito: it was a terrific subject, but those who eat the
saints, and spun the business with great finesse.

Tirso took a liking to, that's undeniable.

I think the first thing that occurred to him was to give race, without looking at what, to make
man, then his ideas, his relationships ... When I moved from Granada to Zamora, made the trip with
the boy just so I could see; already had twelve years that I thanked him very much, because
he had seen only two escapes cortísimas we did that and I from Valladolid. We wanted to pick up
the boy then, Zamora, but on the one hand, and understand the considerations of how much we had to
don Thaddeus ... he insisted that he was not take off, said Tirso was so good that he had taken
so much love ... In addition, our situation was not good, that is, never has been, We could
never save anything. Now, if it were not for retirement, I do not know how we would live. In
order to conclude, when we wrote that Don Tadeo Tirso wanted to become a priest, had already
put in the seminar. What do we do? Although I had more energy than a lion ... then: Stand it!
Anyone Arrisca to fight with people from church! ...

Coming here was silent, fearful that it was the language.

- But he had a vocation?

Pepe, who had long since showed signs of impatience, could not hold
back and broke it by saying between mocking and angry:

- Vocation!

Vocation! Who knows what that is? May feel tired of living man and thinking, but a boy of
sixteen years, as was Tirso then, when he entered the seminary, Understand how to devote to God? It
was a real shame, deception, robbery, kidnapping mayorem ad Dei gloriam!

- Yes - said Millán - like when you put the Jesuit family where girl with money and soon cátatela
nun.

- Exactly the same, boy. But it must be fair. In this case there was a noticeable difference
in favor of Mr. Thaddeus, who was a fan exageradísimo, and yet a very good man. He should certainly
take care of my brother for the father to pay for one of the causes which we've already had,
then their ideas, their friends from church, the influence exerted on him his cronies, his horror
at the boy to learn what is learned on the books against the rascals, not wanting to send,
with his godson, a center realistic learning where the province would not send their children, all
contributed sin. There was in him, at first, evil intent: Don Tadeo thought to action meritorious,
almost a charity. Did not notice a child who stole his parents, his purpose was a desire to serve
God.

- Let a man made calamity.

Doña Manuela silent because even disliking the way your child was expressed, understood that he
was right: Leocadia, accustomed to similar scenes, hardly heard, for have all heard that ad nauseam.
Also, what absorbed his attention, for the moment walking was not ready for the cogiese Millan
among his foot under the table, excesillo apologized for the love of the bridegroom and favored
by the classic couch with her long underskirt of green baize playing
fell to the ground.

Don Jose was making signs with his head Pepe assent as he spoke.

- You're right about everything, my son, Don Tadeo wanted to do well and we screwed up. Because,
Indeed, who is from the Church, only her. There are days when I do not think I have such a
son.

Doña Manuela, without being pious, as the creatures take the world did not leave time for it,
professed some respect and unconscious inexplicable things and sacred persons, on However, since
his eldest son became a priest, began to have a shadow of worship
as indeterminate and vague to the priestly class, so, how often attended
such talks, he spent a hard time.

Their lack of enlightenment and religious feeling low, they could
not pay arms to fight, but it still hurt Tirso clergyman, and having
so many people around the world consideration save them, his other
son as they looked with disfavor.

- How old are you now? - Said Millán.

-
Check the account: of the three children we have left, is the largest,
was born in 38, has now thirty-four, then going it (by Pepe), who
is twenty, and that (for Leocadia) who will be nineteen soon.

- If
you have lived the other, would be seven, and all I have grown up
- with some added proud mother - least Tirso.

Now, for the first time, we will live together.

- I wish to live in peace! - Pepe said.

- Hail-Mary Immaculate!

What things has this brother that God has given me!

- I mean, I do not care who you know.

I have fear of coming Tirso, the desire and fear.

Don José silent sadly, that did not like, but since he knew the next
arrival Madrid with his eldest son, had fought for the same soul that
stirred misgivings Pepe, and listening to him, he thought to himself
heard.

- For our part - continued Pepe - no one is to disturb this
harmony.

Here, you've seen since we know, Millán, my parents live for this and for me, us to them. These
furniture that are older than me, have never heard a dispute not the slightest disrespect. Leocadia
and I tried to mime that old people over a new toy boy.

Do you know why? Because we have not separated ever, and we slept one night without kissing, or
had a pain that is not the other, neither silent nor joy, nor has anyone eaten a bun without saving
the other, or a suit made without thinking about how many clothes were each one, in a word, boy,
our ideas, in my conviction, my parents and the latter by goodness, I have linked all the love,
treasuring day by day and hour by hour, unmixed selfishness, without sharing it with anyone
... (A Don José is moistened the eyes of taste.) Y now come Tirso, educated away from us, become
a man ... and we welcome them with open arms. For my part, I can not wait: a few more care
will be playing Dad more of us at home. But ... God knows!

- No buts about it, it seems that you have left something inside the body, it is so brother
yours like this that I have kidded myself to everyone.

- You do not understand what I meant, Mom.

For us all the joys of earth are within these walls, we can, or try to give them to us each
other.

When it comes Tirso you will hear in different ways, and see in it any aspiration, any idea which
transcends the affection that we have.

- Wow, that was it! ideas now, hush, child, hush.

- At the time,
mother, at a time.

Dinner had ended. The immediate street noises were gradually ceasing; perceived more clear the distant
chime of a church, which announced the Midnight Mass, the children oil cans still happening
from time to time by Imperial Street, and other floors of the house rose, with uneven intervals,
songs, carols, laughter, screams and a cat that was meowing all night without eating smelling
bream.

- Remove the table - "Dona Manuela, and began to save for Don José
what little was left the perry and nougat.

- Do you want that you
go to bed between that and me? - Miller asked the patient to give
.-- Van twelve in suspense will take for you to bed.

As before Dona Manuela made and Leocadia, Pepe and Miller were pushing the chair from the dining
room cabinet in which he slept Don José; Leocadia folding the cloth fell and napkins. A moment
later, Jose was dismissed from the inside telling the Millán, he was back out to the dining
room

- If there is news, see tomorrow, eh? and bring me a newspaper, which
is the only distraction I have.

- Rest assured you, not fail.

Goodbye, Dona Manuela, who pass you good night, and today in one year. Goodbye, Leo. Who will
you please go down to open up?

The girl, who was sleeping in the kitchen, accompanied Millán.

When you open the door up Street, were the two brothers sitting in
the dining room next to Dona Manuela.

- Let's wait for Dad to sleep
- said Leocadia - lest we hear.

Spend some time left, Leocadia unbraided thinning hair meanwhile her mother, gathering with
a pair of forks, and then did the same with her long brown curls.

Pepe lit a cigarette and looked at the lamp, as having to use it
until late, then have no missing oil.

- Much writing, brother.

-
Yo, when I want someone I'm not like you, if you just Millán.

Well, look: their intentions can not be clearer. Tonight I have said that they lowered your
soon to open up when they imagined that he was coming, but, well, there you are. I think you're
not very expressive with it.

- Funny! You want me to eat it with their eyes? Not to be a stamp!

- Do not think you want to get you the groom from his eyes.

What I say is that although you lived a hundred years, would not
find a better one.

- Is it Prince?

- Yes, as you princess.

- Well,
son, you rather make love to a lady's car.

In this cabinet appeared to Dona Manuela.

- Children, already half asleep, we will talk soon four words, I'm
exhausted and I also sleep.

- Look, Mom, what is that talking is
little, but there is no other means to decide something.

The pharmacy takes a lot of money, you need to spend less on everything else. I'll make a work
for Don Luis, who fixed pay me well, but what it should not occur have until next month.

- Well, the first thing is to fire the girl, but not more than thirty
real, it's something.

Tomorrow will take it to pawn the quilt candeleritos Philippines and silver.

- What you should do is to remove part of daily spending - said Leo .-- Do not bring meat rather
than dad, and tell you to eat in your room to move less, then we come into the room, and so does
not know.

- I, with three packs a week I have enough.

In addition, Don Luis I get some cigars and to keep chopping. Would you have said something
at the store?

- Yes - said Leocadia - per dozen handkerchiefs pay, according to the drawing, twenty-four Thirty-six
reals, and I have to put whatever it takes.

- In summary - Pepe said crunching numbers with a pencil on the margins of correspondence,
and muttering mumble calculation figures - we pay hard twenty-seven
Dad, ten and eight of my salary is forty-five, and eight or ten be
given to it by the embroidery ... of fifty-three to fifty-four dollars
a month, removing the twenty, at least, that there to give the market
over the time, and the lack of tailor peak, will be about thirty four
dollars ... put a hard day for the cost of the house ... the pharmacy
is the one we lost.

- Well, son, that somewhere out there, and fourth
is wasted ... What would we do?

- Now, lie down, each in his own bed.

Leave me to myself, I think that Don Luis has to draw from trouble.

At least I have to ask a favor ... in short, who knows? Goodbye Mom and you, ugly cute face,
until tomorrow .-- And giving a kiss to each, gently threw the room. Took then the limelight
was in the kitchen, went with her to her room, returned with about a large binder ink, pens, paper,
envelopes and three or four books, and placing the best he could, sat at the table.

Until near dawn was taking notes of several books, writing in the
pages very cortitos paragraphs, as extracts, numbers followed by references
and citations.

That seemed paper prepared for that exploited other. As the clock near the stroke of three, the poor
boy's head was already heavy, uncertain view and a beautiful bust, sloping even to the table,
appeared in a cloud of smoke that had been left in the atmosphere Cigarette consumed the room,
whose ash, moved by the breath, hovered over the leaves of books. Still continued to fill pages
for a while, until the stiff Burning feet and forehead, gathered up the papers and put them
in one volume. Immediately took a plieguecillo for a letter, leaving a pensive moment as she
thought, "The write, if not see you tomorrow. "Then, to find the envelopes, and have between
them a larger and heavier, opened it, taking from him two or three letters and a portrait of women,
Mademoiselle de creased Leocadia car, and staring a moment, murmured: "How beautiful is! "Then,
without any noise distracted him, delivered with soul and life to your ideas, plieguecillo seized
and began to write:

Adoro Paz :...»

II

Pepe and Miller met in 1862, when at fourteen or fifteen years were enrolled in the Institute Novitiate
first Latin.

They were both then of little physical, but smart, handsome, ready without excess of mischief,
and without plenty of malice warned. In his feeble body servants Madrid poor homes, the prevailing
understanding of children educated alongside older people, without watching anything, speak
of all free. Pepe was thin, tall, lanky, with hair blond, curly and swirling, who claim to be
an indication of temper. Looking penetrating his eyes seemed to look at things, want to start
teaching them that springs; he was never tired of questions mouth or ears of responses: rather,
impatience showing bartered to interrogate you to listen quietly. Since childhood, unbelief instinctively
rejoice him less than other children with tales of witches, and being grown man, was always on our lips
how? and why? Like children who break toys to see what they have inside, he, following perhaps
a bit vulgar disposition, intended to be given explanation for everything, so, to deny what you
asked, it was necessary, at least simulate an argument, to convince, which was quiet and obedient.
His precocity was not the one consists in the early development of some faculties, but trial
in certain serenity that dominates over impressions, led him to reject what your understanding
is not enough. We had to explain everything, and he understood signal was a charming docility.
Never got a maid with giants amused that swallow raw meat, feats of thieves or enchanted princesses
wonderful adventures; but if you listened to his parents real events, vivid cases, something
that had true then with your eyes wide open, as they teach puppy treat, was still waiting
that the relationship ended, then to questions and more questions about what could not understand.
With a very mocking smile rejected what was repugnant to their childish ideas and Sometimes the
phrase that occurred to him, if not for the purpose, something had by intonation satire.

Miller was more simpleton, smaller, had less difficulty to deceive, and it was also given more
strength and Arriscado games.

The sap of life, as the former had reconcentrated in the brain, had taken in the second form
of physical energy. One was the race of those who think, another race of those who obey. Watching
them play together Pepe was willful, it seemed Miller bend to their whims, but to little are
observed, it was easy to notice that the passivity of this was but the implicit recognition
instinctive superiority of the former. In addition, Miller was very good nature and, as he pleases
it, revealed that, in matters of force was the advantage of you, in everything else Pepe was the lead.
In making wooden swords, cutting boards, run the hammer, jump to step, climb fences and walls to climb,
no competitor was Millán: to make awards condone pranks and avoid scolding, Pepe had special talent.
He knew to wait to ask time, let the first moments of anger, not to irritate the annoyance with
answers and evoke a favorable opportunity, the memory of the offering.

The beginnings of his friendship was a kind of pact against Latin and against this mode to teach
the language of Latium that was abhorrent to Virgil and Cicero.

Formed a mutual aid society to join the lesson, save work to translate, looking together the
meanings in the dictionary and responding, the roll call one by another, until came to gather
together the collection of postage stamps which by then was all boy Madrid. At first only saw
in the classroom or on the faculty of the Institute, which has Street entrance of the Kings,
then found their way to come home, and we walked together, expecting another in the plaza of Santo
Domingo, where he arrived almost at the same time. Millan lived on the square of the Screen;
Pepe on the streets of Buttons: Costanilla that came by the Angels; it down the street from
the scallops, then followed together to the Novitiate, stopping in as many windows had something
they called attention. Winter mornings bought donuts, summer evenings groundnuts, and all-weather
wimp, roe, or carob candies to farthing, but his delight was in sharing a pack of cigarettes, but
never arrived to fight over who spent quarter or so. During the first year kept the boys look
a little cramped raised among skirts and clean language, made no freedom to walk alone down
the street; but soon were opening ears to the malice and having ready for the shameless tongue: mischievousness
entróseles thought as infused knowledge, learned to swear, pegóseles some of that impudence
that is given step, and increase your vocabulary with phrases Achilles turns foul language and
whose meaning may not understand, imagine repeating such things that talking about fat men would
hint of panties. Not for this malearon, and those obscenities and suits that used to each other, but to
anyone they repeated, was like a mud that if I messed up the mouth, did not arrive to stain
the soul.

One morning she missed her class with a professor, went to other guys to play Mico was, and this loophole
was to them a revelation. From then on, when calculated that they could ask the lesson, went
to class, but most of the day, then passing list, slipped, or gum
pricking and staining the tissue, they pretended take bleed from nose
to let them out, denying the decline and hyperbaton Latin and for
older men who invented slander.

Dates from this period in history of his life long series of raids they did in Madrid, and
avoiding going through streets downtown where they could be hand to mouth at home who gave notice
of meeting. So they came to know every inch of few walks, roads and surrounding hills the Court,
leaving a foot you want for these rounds, as gentlemen marching Legend to see land and then had
to be home when Miller's father, and the Pepe's mother noticed that the boys broke shoes as if
they were to stubbornness. The famous Marco Polo in the old, and Livingstone and Stanley these
days, browsers were next to them of more or less. What greater issue to go from the novice to
the Iron Gate stopping at the Green Bridge to call them all! All! the washers of the river?
Why, and the trip to Amaniel Moratalaz or do the exercise for the troops? What about going
to ecstasy to the positions of San Isidro, on the eve of pilgrimage, or go in winter to see
if had frozen the Canal del Lozoya? What never occurred to them was taking sides in stoning
of the Peñuelas, see executed in Camp Guard or deal with the waffle that, game tape and stole money
from the provincials in the Principe Pio Mountains. In contrast, I enjoyed very much to see in the palace
stop or to stand on Santa Cruz listening to quacks rant from the driver's seat of a cab selling
lion to remove grease spots or saying powders having to kill the lone inset stomach, which is
the intestine where gets the food.