 

Paraguay River and the people Curumias and CAAC.

We continued our sailing eight days, and gave in a river, and then in the town of Curumias, which is many
Indians who are kept for hunting and fishing, and make wine from locust, [15] (Which the Germans
call joannesbrot). These people tried to serve us all, and gave us as needed with pleasure, in
three days we were there. Men and women of great stature: some bring in an agugerillo nose,
in which put a pen gallantry parrot, and the other is painted blue face with roots that are
never removed, and bring cotton cloth from the waist to the knees.
Mepenes distance of 40 leagues.

From there we went to the Agac, who also kept hunting and fishing. Indian men and women are high,
and these are painted and cover as the background. Recibiéronnos of war, wanting impede the journey,
and can not reduce them to reason, we fought with them in water and land and killed many:
of us died 15. Do not take anything because the time to fight wives and children had retired, and
hid the supplies and how much they had. These Agac are stubborn warriors in water, earth. Then
tell what happened: the village is Curumias of 35 leagues.

It is situated near the river Jepido, [16] that the other side has
the Paraguay River, which descends from the mountains of Peru, near
the Xarayes.

CHAPTER XX.

Carios peoples.

From these towns we pass to those of the caries, which are 50 miles of Agac where found much corn
and cotton. Indians eat sweet potato roots, they know to apples, and cassava that tastes chestnuts
that make beer (mandel-bee-re). They also fish meat, pigs, ostriches, sheep, Indian, as big
as mules, goats, chickens, rabbits, and other things of this kind. There is honey in abundance,
they also make wine, cooking it.

It is so long the land inhabited by the caries, which is 300 miles wide and long. The Indians are
small and fat, and more work than others. Bring a agugerillo in lips, and a crystal fawn on him,
called in their language tembetá, two feet long, and the thickness of a goose cannon: go naked
like pigs. Use including selling fathers to daughters, husbands to the women, and sometimes
brothers to sisters; and the value of India is a shirt or knife, or hocecilla, or something similar.
Eat meat even human, if they can acquire. To kill the captives in war, whether men or wives,
young men or old, and as we kill the pigs.

Preserved for some years an Indian recommended age and trace, but
it will accommodate the wishes of all, they kill and eat to treat,
as famous as that of our wedding, but if gives pleasure to all, and
grow old keep it until she dies.

Carios make these journeys longer than the other Indians Rio de la
Plata.

They are fierce in war, and have their towns and fortresses near the river, in Paraga high.

CHAPTER
XXI.

Lambaré the city, and as it was besieged and surrendered.

The city of these Indians, who call these inhabitants Lambaré, is surrounded by two fences
sticks, as thick as a man, placed every twelve steps, kneeling on the ground, leaving without
so much as the height of a man with the sword and arm raised, and to fifteen steps had made
pits and holes in three states of deep, covered with branches and earth, and in the middle each,
a spear set, acute. This device is to get to the Christians, because leaving Juan de Ayolas
60 men in custody of the launches, was against the city, in order, with 300 soldiers prevented it,
and arrived at a bullet shot of the Army of the Indians 4.000 were armed with bows and arrows,
they sent us to say we were to return to the ships, and give us provisions, and the rest we
needed to return to our land as before. We despise this offer, because this province very
well suited for us, the abundance of supplies, especially because in four consecutive years we
had not eaten bread, but meat and fish only, and often very low. They started the caries shooting
at us, and we did not hurt them, but we wanted them to understand be his friends would not quiet
down for not having experienced our swords nor muskets.

Acercámonos and shoot the artillery, to whose noise and havoc, seeing that fell many died
without knowing that, and deformed agugeros wounds in their bodies, terrified with great fear,
fled tumultariarmente, falling over each other in the pits, more than 300, giving great haste
to get to his people.

We besieged the city, and the Indians fought back strongly, until the third day, killing 16 Spanish,
but fearing damage to their wives and children who were with him,
asked forgiveness and lives, and delivered to our will, offering to
do what they mandásemos and accept peace.

Oyola Captain gave seven pig, over 18 years and six deer, begging
us to stay with them.

A two Indian soldiers were to those served, and food and other necessities, and so we were
friends.

He entered the Village of the Assumption day, the year of 1539, and gave the name of the day, and
so is called today.

CHAPTER XXII.

Lambaré do a castle, with the name of the Assumption, and Carias, with relief Christians, are
against the CAAC.

Mandóse after the Carians that would make a great house of stone,
earth and wood, for safety and defense of Christians, should lift
the Indians.

We stayed here for two months.

Carios also offered the help in the war, and that if it was against Agac (which 30 leagues
distant from them, and about 334 of Good Hope Island, populated by Timbúes) 18.000 that would
give Indians.

Whereupon our captain ordered 300 Spanish, and went with them and
tooth decay Paraguay River 30 miles to the village of Agac, who were
sleeping on the site that they had left.

Reconociéronlo the Carias, and suddenly fell upon them, between 3 and 4 in the morning, and slew
all his enemies, old and young, according to the custom they have
when they are victorious.

We took about 500 canoes after we burned all the towns where we, with other damage. After a month
came some Agac, that had not been found in the ruin of stay away from this land, asking forgiveness.
The captain consented, according to the order of King, and admitted of peace, as it should do, although
pidiesen third time, because only if they rebel later, slaves were perpetual.

CHAPTER XXIII.

Are the soldiers in the Assumption; recognize the site and condition of the land, and move up
the river above.

In six months we were in this city, we repaired to the stillness, and as our Oyola captain was informed
of the Payaguá that are populated by about 100 miles of the Assumption,
to the banks of the Paraguay River, as he said cavities, and that
was their main food hunting and fishing, and also had carob flour
that made eating with fish, and wine as sweet as our wine.

Then he commanded five ships loaded Oyola corn, and prevent of all
things necessary, and give to the sailors as they needed for the proper
event the journey, the two months that he meditated.

First I wanted to make war with the Indians Payaguá, and then to
the Caracas.

Attending all the cavities with carefully and submission, and they promised faithfully obey all
orders from the captain spots.

Ordered so referred, and prevented the ship around, the captain chose 300 soldiers, better armed
and compounds, and left 100 in the city of the Assumption. River always sailing above, at
five miles we reached a pueblezuelo, whose Indians trageron meat, poultry, geese, sheep and
ostriches, and came to the last village of Carias, called Itatin, distant 80 miles of the Assumption,
Indians gave their supplies and other things that we helped.

CHAPTER XXIV.

Mount San Fernando and Peyaguás.

From there we got to the mountain called San Fernando, similar to that called Bogemberg [17],
and we Payaguá the Indians, 12 miles from Itatin: recibiéronnos peace, even feigned as learned
later, brought it home, and treated us with fish, meat, locust bean Pan or John, so we were nine
days. Ask the captain if he made them the nation knew Xarayes called, said they had heard, who
lived away in a rich province gold and silver, but no Indian had
ever seen any of it: and by relation of others, He added that they
were as wise as Christians, and abounding in corn, or cassava cazabí,
mandubís, yams and other roots, of sheep or elk meat, like animals
donkeys whose feet are like a cow, the skin thickness; of rabbits,
deer, geese, chickens, and other things that we learned after the
fact.

Asked the captain to guide the Payaguá, to go into that province,
and offered ready; and about 300 Indians ordered his captain to go
with us and brought us food and other things.

Published our captain the journey in four days, sending it proveyesen all what is necessary for
this company: three ships broke, leaving 50 Christians in the two, with orders that were there.
[18] Four months waiting, and if not return at the end, retreated to the Assumption: we were waiting
six months without knowing anything about John Oyola, and lack the supplies, it was necessary
to return to Domingo de Irala, who had been by our captain, to the city of Assumption, as our captain
had ordered.

CHAPTER XXV.

Juan Oyola comes to the land of the Naperús and Samocosis, and is dead to the back with all
Christians.

Juan Party Oyola with 300 Spanish and 300 Indians, came to the Naperús,
friends and allies of Payaguá, which remained hunting and fishing.

It populous nation, and she took some Oyola Indians for guides, because
I had to walk between several nations, as did full of jobs and lack
of all: many resisted him with weapons, and killed half the people.

Samocosis the Indians came, and could not go forward, and leaving
three Spanish patients with these Indians, set out the work, he turned
with all his family.

John descanzo Oyola with his people, weary of the road, three days in Naper, and although
it came good, understood Indians did not bring ammunition and weapons, which covered the Naperús
and Payaguá, to kill, and they got it: for having left Naper, Christians Oyola with to go to the
Payaguá, being almost in the middle of the road on them suddenly gave great multitude of these
two nations, (hidden in the forest meant for this betrayal, where had to pass), and as rabid
dogs killed the captain and his soldiers, healthy and patients without escape.

CHAPTER XXVI.

Seeing death of his captain, the Spanish elected in his place Domingo Martinez de Irala.

We knew the treachery of Payaguá, by an Indian [19] who had been slave Oyola, the which the
enemy fled to know the language, but did not give him full credit,
although it had all that had happened, from the beginning to the end
of the set pitiful.

So we were a year in the city of Assumption, unaware of our people
other than the above, and what the captain had Carios Irala, and be
publicly known that Payaguá and Naperús he had died.

But for sure, we wanted to hear from the mouth of one of the Payaguá.

Two months later, some cavities comprises two Payaguá, and trageron the captain, and asking if they
had helped to kill our men, denied it, saying that even our captain had not returned to his
own province. Gave them to torture, and confessed the truth, and what is mentioned in chapter
history, sending them to burn the captain tied to a suit, surrounded by a large fire. Then
we choose as captain to said Irala, until the King ordered otherwise, for had always been
fair and kind, especially with the soldiers.

CHAPTER XXVII.

Captain prison places in the Assumption, going to the Timbúes and casualties is: let Antonio
de Mendoza in Corpus Christi, and sails to Buenos Aires.

He then Captain provide four brigs, and 150 Spanish Village, sailing down Paraguay and Parana rivers.
The second, leaving the other people in the Assumption, with orders to join the 150 who were in
Thimphu, and to the 160 of the ships of Buenos Aires, came to the Timbúes, or Good Hope, and
Fort Corpus Christi, where our people had been, but we found the land without Indians, because
the Captain Francisco Ruiz, Juan Galan, presbyter, Juan Hernandez, clerk, they were like governors,
after several treatment infidels and evil, had killed the chief of the Timbúes and other Indians, and
the rest is fled, of whom we had received many benefits. So sad knowing evil, we are amazed,
and our captain entrusted to Antonio de Mendoza Fort Corpus Christi, leaving 120 men and supplies,
in order to guard against the Indians, being always alert with good
guards, and if the Indians should come to peace, to treat them with
love, making few attentions were possible, and avoiding all who attempt
to harm them, and them Christians, and looking each other with the
utmost diligence.

Thus returned to ship, carrying get to Francisco Ruiz, Juan Galan
and Hernandez, author of the infamous death of the Indians.

When they were to sail, was a principal Indian Thimphu, great friend of the Christians, was
compelled to follow his men, by his wife, children, relatives and
family, which permission to advise the captain who did not leave there
any Christian, for all the people of war of the province was settled
or to kill them, or out of the land.

The captain replied he would return soon, and people leaving enough to resist the Indians, and
begged it came, the Christians, with his wife, children and families, and they promised, and
leaving Corpus Christi, embarked the captain.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

Timbúes treacherously kill 50 Spanish: forsake the other the strength of Corpus Christi, and
shipped to Buenos Aires.

After eight days, more or less, the chief sent his brother, but treacherous, treacherously, asking
our captain Mendoza six soldiers with rifles and other weapons, to spend to us with all their
wealth and family to live forever. Pondered the fear that had at the Thimphu, and the lack of
security to come without this relief, offered, as a friend request all our convenience, bring
many provisions, and an abundance of other things. Persuaded the captain, not only gave him
6, but 50 well-armed Spanish musketeers, charging that go with restraint, caution and concern,
to get rid of the damage they could cause the Indians who were half
a league from us.

The 50 Spanish arrived in front of their houses, Timbúes were greeted with the peace of Judas:
ofreciéronles fishing and hunting, and to start eating, they were about friends and enemies,
that looked to others that had been hidden at home, with such fury and haste, that it is a boy named
Caldera escaped from their hands, none was saved. And by continuing to rage, we envistieron
10.000, and stood upon the strong fourteen calendar days, with intent to destroy us, but God mercifully
stopped him. Traian long spears, swords they had taken to the Christians killed by spikes, and fought
with them and other weapons, night and day, for take the fort, but could not.

After fourteen days, gave the last envestida, stubborn throwing all his strength, and set fire to
the houses. Out came the captain Antonio de Mendoza with a sword by a door in which the Indians
had set his helmet, well hidden, and just gave it when he crossed Indians with spears, falling
to a standstill.

God wanted them to food over Indians, and could not stay over, lifted
the siege and were thus rested, and more with two launches that sent
our captain of Buenos Aires, with provisions and ammunition, so that
we could hold until we come back, which caused us great joy.

But it was greater sadness that the death of Christians instilled in the newcomers, and not
finding another way to restore, by mutual agreement we decided to
abandon Corpus Christi, and become to Buenos Aires, as egecutamos
with all people.

Scared our arrival the captain, and vehemently was overwhelmed by the ruin of the people, not
knowing he would do, for lacking the other provisions and the need for any business.

CHAPTER XXIX.

A ship arrives in Spain with people to the island of Santa Catalina, where they go to ours in
a boat.

Fifteen days had were in Buenos Aires, there fell a caravel to Spain, and warned us Santa Catalina
to be in a ship with 200 men, who came by Captain Alonso Cabrera. Al make available about our
captain ordered another small ship that was to Brazil, to Santa Catalina, [20] which was about 300
miles from Buenos Aires. Posted by captain Gonzalo de Mendoza, with orders if we find them in Santa Catalina,
loaded with rice, cassava and other supplies that his sight. Asked
the captain Gonzalo de Mendoza 7 soldiers, who could be trusted, and
chose 6 Spanish, and to me and 20 others to join us.

Sailed a month,
and we arrived at Santa Catalina, where he was the ship we were looking,
with Captain Alonso Cabrera and his people, with which we rejoice
much, and spent two months with it. As we loaded our ship with rice,
manioc and corn, and left with both ships and the captain and his
soldiers Cabrera Alonso de Santa Catalina, sailing to Buenos Aires;
and lies just 20 miles from the city, the eve of All Saints, in the
Paraná River, asked sailors to each other, if they were already in
the river Paraná