 "What have you done, unfortunate, so that The
gods punish you? "I've taught the mortals do not think about death," answered Prometheus. "And
how did you get?" "I have made known the blind hope."

And for thousands of years ruled the world the beneficent god and comforting the dark hero
had given humans, paying this generosity with the torment of his heart torn by the eagle, "winged
dog Zeus." She drove the herds of men arms, she had fluttered to the bows of the discoverers,
she moved with her step stay inside where meditate silence scientists and artists, she led the eager
crowds welfare and comprehensive site that is uprooting of one hemisphere to go to be replanted
on the other.

Fernando saw it, saw it coming, with their eyes closed, above the blue sea, as a gold bubble
detached from the sun, like a rag finally stop light on edge of the
bow, like the divine images that decorated the ships of the first
Argonauts.

Their wings were stretched in the ether as majestic sails concave,
his tunic arremolinábase ago in harmonious folds, impelled by the
wind.

Was equal to the Victory of Samothrace, and well as to her head was
missing.

For this just to know Ojeda. She does not think she has no eyes ...

It was the hope, blind hope that with the advancement of his torso pointed south.

III

After lunch, passengers heard Goethe sound like the band forward with sleepy remoteness gives the
vastness of the ocean to all the vibrations.

- Van to vaccinate
the third - said Maltrana, always aware of what happened on the ship.

They were still off the island, skirting its rugged mountains, ancient
stone surge eruptions arrivals to the sea.

Down the slopes, as sheep in the flock, white houses, medium some of them hidden in the folds of
green shades. Above the heights was from the snow cap of Mount Teide as a curious head, hiding
or appearing as the ship going near or far from the coast.

Maltrana could not keep quiet in the winter garden sipping coffee with Fernando. Something extraordinary
happened on board without his presence.

- Do you think we'll see people in third?

... Should be interesting.

They descended the stairs two floors, and leaving the castle esplanade in central viéronse fore,
at the foot of the foremast. Under the big awning that shaded this space aglomerábase the stench
of a sweaty crowd. The ship's doctor and several assistants, all
blouses white, occupied the center next to a table laden with kits.

And the music went migrants in an endless row, all with a bare arm that presented the Lancer of cattle.
The first officer, assisted by police aides, organized the parade, ensuring that everyone, after
rolling up his arm with the other hand submit the role of its passage.

The

act of vaccination was both a recount. Al from Tenerife, the last leg of old world, began the great
journey, one had to enter the ship to America, and police needed to know the number of people
who were on board. The sailors roamed the cockpit, the dark passageways, cellars, to the far
corners in search hidden passenger pushing the fugitives who sought to avoid this operation.

German officials called each time to give orders to an employee of the police station fat man
and white mustache that was expressed in different languages, from
one to another with amazing ease.

Maltrana and he was greeted warmly.

- That's Carmelo - Ojeda said - one of our compatriots. Speaks all languages ??of Europe; in
addition to Arabic, and I think a little Japanese.

And with all his wisdom here you have it earning a few frames, no
other satisfaction than hold a uniform and cap migrants be called
official.

I look every day in his office, which is below provided with the
light on, and we chatted about what happens on the ship.

What a man! Wherever you go, he studied in Manchester, all by himself, going through the port
from ship to ship and telling any seafarer who was bored: "Let's take a paragraph in your language,
mate."

As he spoke Isidro of women and children of his friend, Andalusians
transplanted to Hamburg and cash shortages thereof, which forced him
to look between the rich passengers one that would entertain the leisure
of the voyage studying languages ??shouted Don Carmelo with the accent
of his homeland:

- Too God PAPE er hand!, You look good!

And he repeated the order in Italian, French, Portuguese and Arabic.

Men had marched, and were now women, with a squad of kids, the that presented themselves to
receive the vaccination. Went to the doctor with brawny arms the whiteness and firmness of the flesh
North; fatty arms on the sinking operators fingers, arms round amber, similar to those of women
by Titian but they occupied in the upper part a dark triangle of filthy dirt.

Women fought to uncover the sleeves of the chemise or thick elastic and in this struggle, they opened
the chest, showing scapulars and medals on flacideces of motherhood.

Arab female, brown and bony, were almost naked under his barons scratched, the thick Neapolitan,
hair disheveled and eyes of coal, returned to bodice with tranquil immodesty the exuberance
hoppers emerged to unbutton, the Castilian angular retinto oily hair combed as virgins Pre-Raphaelites,
covered promptly his arm with triple lining and flushed away, shaking heap short bailarinesca
their petticoats transudates. Some kids bawling their mothers clutching, quivering dread to
see the white blouses operators, others with his hat in the neck, showing Ivorian smile teeth of
a wolf, who is vying for first would advance arm as if that were a party.

Maltrana explained to his friend, the order in which migrants were
divided.

The bow was for 'Latino' Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, French, Arabs, Jews of the South and to Egyptians.
No one could guess the latter Latino people, but it had the police
box.

In the stern was crowded other nations: Germans, Russians and Jews, many Jews from diverse backgrounds,
Poles, galitzianos, Ruthenians, Moscow and Balkan cooking aside,
to the concerns and rites of their religion.

The Israelites had meat slaughtered by the Rabbis of Hamburg. The bustling latinidad enjoyed the
privilege on the other castes to drink wine with meals twice a week
and make chocolate at dawn twice, instead of regular coffee.

The Lamentations of Carmelo, who swore to himself with great fanfare,
interrupted Maltrana.

- Cursed be my gun!

Me and I missed that trip hisiésemos er no surprises. But comrade, there is no way to get rid
of these people! ...

Exchanged a few words in German with the first officer then shouted at Spanish waiters they were
serving "Latinos'

- To see these lads Bueno, pa bring them here!

Advanced six young men, bareheaded, ragged clothes and his feet in
broken or frayed espadrilles shoes.

- Moo do you have no ticket and
you have got here without MA or ma bustles, as if this Juesas the
house and toos?

What do you think this is going to quear craving?

... You, what you HERE?

And the six bustles were answering the interrogation of Mr. Carmelo. One was from Tenerife and
the remainder came from Andalusia and Galicia. Had been made secretly in several ships, and put
them on the ground to reach the Canaries.

And a cache search again in the cellar of another boat!

... So get thinking, be that as it may, where they had proposed. The six wanted to go to Buenos Aires,
and as beasts humble, resigned in advance to blows they believed
deserved, lowered their heads happy with his misfortune if they could
reach the end trip.

Don Carmelo spoke quietly with the first officer.

- Okay - said solemnly -.

But as no one comes here without a ticket and the ship can no space
backwards for you, going to swimming golveros Tenerife.

The island is there near.

He pointed to the coast was seen in the distance between the ship's
rail and the edge of the awning.

The officer was stroking the beard impassive as the interpreter translated his orders. The women
opened their eyes in astonishment and terror.

- To place a pan escaleriya pa that more fasiliá - Carmelo ordered.

The waiter obeyed him, placing a small ladder against the side, while the interpreter repeated
the order. "The water boys! And one remojonsito nothing more. "

The older bustles with his head still low, between believers and terrified, wondering that this
order could be true but also doubting that it was all a joke, used
to hardness and penalties on ships that had served as a refuge.

One that was almost a child dared to look over the railing, with eyes of fear appreciating the
enormous distance which lay between the ship and shore.

- I do not
want!

... Do not want to die ... I want to go to Buenos Aires! Mother! ... Mammy! ...

And he dropped to the ground moaning, kicking their legs to repel them from talking. Began sighs
and exclamations from the women's groups. Don Carmelo looked at the first official that was
stroking his beard.

- Bueno, children, will Pá later. At night you may go swimming. Meanwhile, that you vaccinate
and then eat ... A look at some old pants Bueno pa these boys, if
not go teaching the vergüensas the passage ... But it is agreed eh,
boys? at night I marcharéis swimming.

Suddenly relieved, the bustles were carried away by the sailors, who
pushed roughly, accepting the deal with humility and gratitude.

-
Be strong - Carmelo said the two friends by putting a fierce gesture
-.

If not were so, too er ship would fill with people without passage. Four will go to the machines,
provided Farta hasen stokers, and two smaller ones will help the Maid of the covers. Could disembark
in Rio de Janeiro. But er commander is Bueno, and insurance to the
yevaremos Buenos Aires.

The crooks will get away with it.

The music continued to play and resumed the parade of bare arms to the group white blouses.

Ojeda was impressed by the previous scene. He seemed to hear the cries of the lad still kicking
on the cover: "I do not want to die! I want to go to Buenos Aires !...». The tramp ports had the
same enthusiasm that he and almost everyone who lived in the upper
decks.

Dozing between the bales and barrels of a dock, had also seen the winged goddess without head,
he felt the caress of hope. And there they marched all, facing nostalgia of memory or the needs
of the present, scrambled, confused, matched by common illusion ... Buenos Aires! What a powerful magic
of this name, which was run the miserable, and starving mice to hide in the bowels of the ship!
...

Maltrana grew impatient at the monotony of the parade.

- After they
vaccinate the stern, less clean and presentable people that "Latino"
with long hair and sheepskin coats.

Up will be better.

They went to the top of the vessel, the cover of the boats, seeking the shade of an awning and
two free chairs to relax in solitude imbued with light blue. Most of the passage preferred to stay
down, a refugee in the soft twilight of the promenade deck.

Maltrana greeted a lady who was reading lying on a long couch, back on a cushion showing between
the flower and ruffled their snowy faldamenta startup clad legs white silk and high heels shoes.
Fernando, warned by the side of the companion noticed his hair, dark-blond, collected in the
form of helmet, in her eyes and trembling like drops of sea water, which rose briefly in the
book to look at him with quiet firmness, in the white of her neck, a whiteness of crumb of bread
lightly golden by the sun and sea breeze.

- Is the U.S., the lady who come near our table - muttered Isidro -. Speak Low people, just
shaking hands with some old board, shun the treatment of others ... I am the only man who
changes the greeting, but when I speak it pretends not to understand me ... And yet, I guess
it a cheerful and manly: You must be a pleasant companion; there is more to do with how funny smiles.
Dimples as cuckoos What you are near the mouth!, How his velvety eyes! ... But there is no trust
between people still on board; it looks like everybody to visit.

They sat at some distance from the U.S. and it came back down on the eyes book, swaying in his chair
to ignore the presence of the newcomers.

They had before them the blue of the ocean, smooth, dense, without a wrinkle on the bottom, at
the Stern, a triangle of shadow that clouded the horizon, a kind of gray cloud and pyramidal
which was the island ... Absolute quiet ... Sitting in the middle of the cover, there could see
foam that swirled up speed against the flanks of the ship.

From this point his eyes covered only the second term, namely the calm sea, which seemed covered
with a transparent and transparent crust, a crust of thick blue reflecting glass and pasty depth.
But for the black tufts that escaped from the chimney, to be floating in the calm sultry afternoon,
they would have believed that the ship not going ... And the island is always in sight, as the country
legends delighted that appear to move behind the steps of the run.

The silence of siesta extended its overwhelming peace on the deck flooded with light. Under Awnings
are perceived slight snoring, rhythmic breaths, backs turned to the
outside on the long chairs, heads embedded in pillows or resting on
the back, with eyes closed and mouth open to the freshness of the
shade.

The floor creaked in more heated, under the slow pace of a passerby. They went up the echoes
of music, distant numb, as if from the depths of the sea. They came from the other side of the fireplace
cries of children and crash of timber, revealing the various incidents of a sports game. The
afternoon sun caught fire across the West with blinding rain.

- Why call this the "Dark Sea"? - Maltrana said that he could not
remain silent long time.

These words aroused in both the memory of past readings. Ojeda thought of his drama poetic conquerors
whose preparation had been obliged to consider the saga of the sailors who discovered the wilderness.
Isidro remembered the work done when he was a mercenary in the literature, when he was in
pursuit of notes in libraries and file for the making of a book he would sign after a character
eager to join in an academy.

- It is always scary what we ignore - said Ojeda -. A cloud on the horizon or more sunless days
Dark enough to call a sea in which advanced with hesitation, fearing the surprises of the mystery
and keep track of costs. I confess that the geography of Dark Sea before the compass made possible
the long explorations, is a geography I love and rejuvenate, something
like those fairy tales that delight us as a perfume wilted flowers
to evoke the first impressions of childhood.

And the two listed in animated conversation all attempts of men from remote centuries, to break
the mystery of the Dark Sea.

The Carthaginian sailors down south along the coast of Africa, bringing, after a journey of several
years, elephant tusks suspended from the temples, colorful ornaments, skins of hairy men with
tails that had to be large orangutan wraps. And the Senate gave such value to such discoveries,
he kept as a state secret the route of the sailors, seeing distant
lands a safe refuge for his people if ill-fated war necessitated the
expatriation.

In this sea of ??darkness, beyond the Pillars of Hercules, had placed Homer and Hesiod the Elysee,
the abode of the blessed, the Gorgons, the land of eternal spring, and the Hesperides, with
their golden apples, guarded by a dragon of fire. Arab sailors were then which were thrown into
the sea of ??darkness, and geographers populated the mystery of marine wilderness poetic inventions,
discoveries garnishing the same as a tale from the Arabian Nights. The Emir spoke Edrisi Islands Vac-uac,
ultimately the world in the twelfth century by the East: islands so abundant in wealth, which
monkeys and dogs wore gold collars. A tree, which had large forests, was its name to the islands, the
uac-uac, so called because crying or barking with similar sounds
anyone who first put foot on the archipelago.

And this tree was on the tip of its branches, first, abundant flowers, and then instead of fruit,
beautiful girls, beauties virgins who were eligible for export to the harems.

For the West had advanced Almagrurinos siblings, eight neighboring Moorish Lisbon, long before
1147 - the year in which the Muslims were expelled from the city - joined the supplies needed
for a long journey, "not wanting to return without penetrating to the end Dark Sea. " Just discovered
the island of "bitter rams' and the island of" men red ', but were forced to turn to Lisbon lacking
food, since they could not eat bad taste by the rams of the discovered lands. As for the red
men were a tall, reddish skin and "non-thick hair, but long to shoulder";
features that made many wonder if the brothers would come to play
Almagrurinos effectively on an island east of America.

While geography Arab land raised up the Dark Sea, the Christian legend the islands peopled with
no less wonderful. When the Moors invaded the Iberian Peninsula defeating Roderick King, a
crowd of Christians, leading to its front seven bishops, had board, to flee into the ocean until
he found an island where he founded seven cities. Many Portuguese navigators carried away
by the storm, had gone to this island where they were magnificently treated by people who
spoke the same language and had churches. But just trying to get back their land, was opposed
by the inhabitants, eager to be on guard secret the existence of the "Island of Seven Cities.
Some who had managed to return sands taught those beaches, which were almost pure gold. But
at the arming expeditions to go to their discovery, they never guessed right with the road.

Another island, St. Brendan or St. Borombón, employed people at sea
for several centuries; ghost island and everyone saw that no one came
to set foot.

St. Brendan, Abbot Scotland the sixth century, which came to lead three thousand monks, embarked
with his disciple San Maclovio to explore the ocean in search of some islands that had the delights
of paradise and were inhabited by infidels. While browsing, Christmas Day, the saint prays to
God allows you to find land where their land to say Mass with due pomp, and immediately comes
an island to the foam that lifts his hat. Finished the divine, when San Borombón back to the
ship with his acolytes, the land is instantly immersed in waters. It was a monstrous whale by order
of the Lord had given to this service.

After wandering for years by the Ocean landed on an island, and found, lying in a grave, the corpse
of a giant. The two holy monks raised, owe him interesting conversations, and so reasonable and
well educated shown, which eventually becomes to Christianity and baptized. But on the fifteenth
day the giant gets tired of life, wishes death to enjoy the benefits of conversion entering heaven,
and asks politely to die again, reasonable request that access to the saints. And then no
mortal is able to penetrate on the island of San Borombón. Some seamen Canaries are very close
in their navigation, there are those who come to tie their boats
in trees from the shore, among the remains of ships covered by sand,
but always comes an unexpected storm, an earthquake, the sea throws
them away. And centuries passed no one ever set foot on its shores.
The people of Tenerife showed clearly the at certain times of the
year and presented to the authorities claiming hundreds of witnesses
configuration: two big mountains with a green valley in the center.

-
America was discovered by a whole - said Ojeda - where neighbors still
sent Tenerife expeditions to the coast, these waters in search of
the famous San Borombón land. And the island, which could be seen
perfectly from the top of the mountains, in difuminábase horizon and
just getting lost when someone was going to meet on a ship. There
were many expeditions, some paid by the rulers of the island, other
individuals, but all without success, and people increasingly convinced
of the existence of San Borombón, blamed these failures to the inability
of the expedition before renouncing the charm of the marvelous. Most
maps of the time placed this island near the Canaries and eighty years
before the independence of the colonies, when Spanish America was
already thinking to declare adult, Tenerife still left an expedition
led by a gentleman respectable, and as it was a mysterious company,
were two brothers on his ship. Some phantom island believed that this
was the place of earthly paradise where they live in bliss Elijah
and Enoch eternal ... The holy poetry always take advantage of popular
fiction, and why Tasso, to love the knight Rinaldo in the magic garden
of Armida, the placed on an island in the Canaries, no doubt recalling
the tradition of St. Borombón