 Commissioned to
will prompt you to speak one last time and settled or not to give part of what was happening.
No wanted to come, no doubt fearing my wrath. Fell with another attack, and was certainly loves
to look for him, because when I opened my eyes he was beside me. Asked the housekeeper to make
me a cup Linden ... As we were alone, without a word fell upon me, enveloping me face with kisses,
squeezing so hard that I die ... Stunned and horrified, jumped some shouting, but he stifled
putting his hand over her mouth ... I struggled with despair, And God gave me strength to let
go of his arms and jump out of bed ... But there was little set foot on the floor, I met again
with the subject and gagged ... We struggled a while, but this struggle could not last long
... Finally, I passed out ...

A violent emotion ran through the room. There was a rumor long. All eyes, fixed so far in the
complainant went to the defendant. Fr Gil had heard that infamous statement, first with surprise,
then with a sad pity that the bystander, impressed by the words of the young, they could not read
his eyes. That calm attitude, his gaze lingering, fixed on his accuser, continued to give to
cynicism.

It was difficult to happen otherwise. Obdulia had shown, under the lash of anger, diabolical
talent.

His words and gestures, a little exaggerated, vibrated with indignation. His eyes never ever
crossed that of the priest, but he knew well to give the appearance of this fear contempt.

- I wish to express the complainant - the defense attorney asked - how is that, having everything
happened just said, he confessed only after the author of that flight and nothing said to much
time elapsed violence he endured.

- I did not say anything to disgrace. I think any woman would do the same for me. What was up
to reveal these things so dirty?

Only when I saw my honor on the floor, only when reached my ears that was said in Peñascosa,
I ventured to confess to my father. Mandated of that I am here, that otherwise would not have
been.

To all questions put to him, both the president and the lawyers, responded
with admirable composure and resiliency.

Not a moment lacked imagination.

Defending P. Gil proposed to end the confrontation with Ms Josefa.

He went back and fixed it an angry look on Obdulia, which paid him
another hit with contempt.

On request the president told again the scene where Fr Gil threw home his penitent. A few words
it showed signs of agitation and was horribly pale.

- False, false!
- Shouted for joy.

- Is it true that you came into the room of my
master, saying: "Father, here I am you!" and my master, unanswered
word, he rose from his chair, grabbed you by the arm and set of legs
out of the cabinet?

- Lies ... That woman is crazy ... To save his
master invented a calumny.

- I'm not crazy, no, nor slander anyone
... The slander that you are a priest, rogue, you have to give account
to God for their evil ...

- Please report the witness - said the
president also .-- please report the complainant, or I'll be forced
to expel them from the room.

But neither ignored the threat. Obdulia kept shouting:

- False! You lie!

- The lying is you, who want to lose a priest pride ... A saint!

- Silence! - Shouted the president hitting the bell.

- Give you a good holy God - the girl exclaimed .-- sarcastic smile
you do not slander the other for saving him.

- Enough!

Drive out of the room with these women - uttered the president, addressing the ushers.

- The slanderous you! ... You, rascal! Rascal ... Why have you despised accuse him infamous?
Are not you afraid to open up and swallow you? ...

At that moment a hujia grabbed her arm and shoved her brutally toward the door. But Ms Josefa,
until he reached her, kept shouting:

- There is no justice to this poor woman caning, the feather!

... Rascal, you've gone always behind the priests, like a bitch out! ... Keep it in a bath
of cold water that is cool!

...

Another hujia was to expel the other, but at the time of close, Obdulia collapsed, attack of syncope.
His lawyer and the people who were near came to her aid. Was transferred to the office of secretary.
Two doctors were spontaneously Contest to visit.

After the test, and after resting a few minutes, the President gave
the floor the private prosecutor.

His speech was, as expected, eloquent and furious. Her voice was veiled because of bronchitis
chronic: when he wanted to raise was shrill, strident. The word was fluid, although abounded
in public areas of journalism. In Lancia nobody knew about this smoothness.

Fr Pinto Gil as being hypocritical, despicable, vile secret feeding, carefully hiding them for fear of losing
their position. These passions are common the clergy, in which a regime of idleness and a sedentary
life and the exciting spring ...

As insist too much on this, the president called him to order.

He described the crime with a picturesque crudeness purpose to impress the court. A odious plan
laid out beforehand and carried out with firmness and skill relentless. Abuse of trust first,
then indecent assault, and finally, a coward and sacrilegious violation. The evidence was inconclusive.
With force and subtlety at the same time he was collecting all on the head of the priest to
conclude with this paragraph:

- And if all these data were not damning enough to prove premeditation plainly crime, I will
argue next. It is said, and all agree in this, that the father had Gil confession to her daughter
to a convent of Carmelite Astudillo. Well, Sir ... in Astudillo Carmelite convent there. Want
more in court?

The speech was short and decisive. At the end he felt a murmur approvingly, a bad omen for processing.

The
defender he was a lawyer of experience and intelligent, but lacking in all the oratorical skills
of his opponent.

Word was abundant, but it was dull, heavy, more calculated to elucidate
some obscure point in a civil case to drag the spirit of the court
and the public.

Be entertained with great thoroughness to reconstitute the informalities seeking summary, calling
the court's attention on details, some of them insignificant.

Nothing to enter, as it should, in the character of the complainant, to highlight the chronic
disorder of the nervous system, its surprising violence feelings, like love to hatred, susceptibility
unhealthy self-esteem seemed devoid of skin and flesh forever, nothing to seek, in short,
the origin, the true origin of that strange charge.

He spoke about an hour and a half. Upon completion, the same court that the public, were visibly
fatigued. Briefly the private prosecutor corrected some errors of
fact.

Sostúvolos the defense, as their condition was long and neatly. So that the nuisance generated
on his maiden speech multiplied significantly in the second.

Finally, the president rang the bell and, facing the accused, said:

- In light of the evidence they have just performed and the reports
of Mr. Counsel, Processing does something to express to the court?

Fr Gil got up from his bench and cast a look as smooth as roams the room. Seemed he awoke from
a dream. It took a few moments to speak. Silence reigned in the auditorium deep and anxious. Despite
the unfavorable atmosphere that had formed around him, her delicate figure, poetic, which shone
humility, could not fail to impress favorable.

- I am innocent of the crime that I committed. In the hands of God, in whom I have long ceased
all my thoughts and attention, now let my sentence. Their bidding.

These simple words, spoken slowly, causing an electric shock in contest.

For a moment he glimpsed the truth as in the light of lightning.

But the darkness fell back into the room and thickened in the most
perspicuous intelligences.

No missing who mutter that priests, by evil they were, were always on the lips these words.
The president responded with his usual pungency:

- Well, God will judge him later. For now you are going to judge men.

XV

The court sentenced the men to fourteen years, eight months and one day in prison.

Officer of the hearing room that was to read the sentence to jail is believed the duty of lavish
comforts. The case was not hopeless. The Supreme Court could still marry sentence. If this does
not happen, he was still young and would probably presidial especially considering cuts as the
government grants from time to time, etc., etc.

- Thank you, thank you, sir - said the priest, whose countenance expressed a deep calm, an inner
serenity that drew attention .-- You think me very unhappy, right?

- Much ... You inspire me with great compassion - responded with rueful face the notary.

- "So you do not change for me now?

The employee made a grimace of terror.

- Unfortunately ... You understand ... The case is terrible! ...

Fr Gil stood a moment staring at him with a sweetness not without pity and he finally said, putting
a hand on the shoulder

- Well, do you wrong, sir, do you wrong. Could well give you your freedom, your honor, your
position and your family be like me ... and you would still huge profits.

The notary looked at him in amazement. His eyes went after a flash of concern, fearing found in
front of a madman, and hastened to say goodbye and leave.

It was just the priest. The cell in which it was was murky and dirty. An iron cot, a pine coffee
table, comfortable chairs and some rough straw made up all the furniture. For the single barred window
that there illuminates open to considerable height, came within this when a beam of sunlight.
Fr Gil, after remaining motionless for a moment in attitude reflection, was to be placed under
those rays. Her blonde head suddenly illuminated, glowed gold, white
complexion took on a singular transparency.

Her slim body, thin, dressed in black cassock, seemed a column of ebony to underwrite this head.

He
left to drown by the warm wave, slowly drinking his sweet, pulsing under his touch as a captive
bird. He raised his eyes to the window. Through the bars saw the blue the sky, transparent,
infinite, inviting him to fly.

The sky laughed. But she laughed merrily the sky soul, intoxicating joy flooded. In the depths
of his being too bright blue infinity. Since the Gracia had visited lived in perpetual feast.
His eyes suddenly lit, contemplated the universe in its ideal nature. All leaflets lying on the ratio
had fallen to the ground: the great secret of existence is revealed
to him directly with admirable clarity and purity.

Behind this apparent life around us was real life, infinite life, and entered it with hearts
full of joy. In this life everything is infinite love, or what is equal all is bliss. Enter
it is to put your foot in the Empire of Eternity.

Is life spirit. The world can not change or destroy time, because she is the principle same
time and the world. God loved life, lived beyond the time at source same ideal and lasting
imaginative world that surrounds us. Their days are no longer sliding sad and anxious as a portion
of time. And not suffer the gnawing desire, not exhaled plaintive complaints about their sins,
their resolutions due, because he loved and his own works, however good they were, as before,
but only the Eternal. Because works have their origin in the person, and he was stripped of his,
had refused firmly. In the midst of a holy and sweet indifference let God should work within
their spirit. Forever free of doubt and uncertainty, I knew I should not want more than one
thing, and everything else would be given in addition. He was sure that the power divine love
that had sprung up in him should not ever be exhausted, and that this love would guide him
forever. The fear of death and destruction not disturbed. Death, since he had entered in the
life of eternity, was to him incomprehensible.

No need to go down to the grave get this eternal life. Bastabales join heart to God to possess
and enjoy it.

Learned, finally, once and for all, that man can not escape the pain
and death by reason but by faith, that is, by a different and better
knowledge than it can give us.

Since this knowledge enlightened spirit, happiness reached absolute.

Without concern for the future, without feeling for the past, do not feel like anything not
rejecting anything either, his life long he glided like a happy dream, as a sweet intoxication.
He dropped the lead of desires and sorrows that bound him to the ground. Freed from all illusion
and every effort, without fear of annihilation or hope selfish resurrection, by virtue of Faith
and love play in his soul knew the true reign of God.

Only briefly and remained motionless, receiving the sun's warm kiss of the day. Representársele
soon that it was a delight to the senses, and making a gesture of
disdain, was to sit in the darkest corner of the room.

Only by renouncing the pleasures, only looking for the suffering
and lording his senses had reached that state of bliss of sublime
indifference.

- Why do I need that sun rays - it was said - if the
fire that burns within my soul I warms and comforts me best?

How much is this ephemeral light compared to the other not never
be darkened?

Living in the life of the senses is to be a slave of time and necessity.

All that is not in the inner and free inside me I managed to find me strange and indifferent. Oh,
no! No longer a slave tremble.

I have the consciousness of my freedom. No need to die to get it back. This feeling of my freedom
fills me with joy, I am an emancipated soul printed on the label
of my God.

Nothing happens, nothing of what may happen to disturb the peace
of my heart.

The pulse beat of my inner life with the same force until it beeps when I leave this world.
I've eaten meat and I drank the blood of the Redeemer, and according
to his promise, I live in Him and He dwells in me.

I Am a Child of Eternity. I picked up the legacy of my Father, and no one, nobody can me boot!
...

The lock on the door rang loudly. Appeared in the key, a fat man with the face red, eyes full
of meat, the suit dirty and greasy, bulky and around the abdomen a wide leather belt trimmed
with keys. Not to say good morning or make a minimum a courtesy, turned toward the hall, saying:

-
Come, gentlemen, you pass.

Behind him came two gentlemen in frock coat and top hat. The one tall, blond, with a long beard
that reached his mid-chest, open and friendly face, young yet.

The other lower and thin, sickly color, thin beard and glasses. The
first was a distinguished physician of the population.

The second, a lawyer very fond of studies criminal and had already published several papers relating
to them.

Fr rose Gil to see them. They greeted him politely, but without shaking hands.

- Well, there I leave you with the pater - said rudely keychain you
.-- Tell when they want out.

And it was.

The lawyer took a step toward the prisoner, and said with an amiable smile:

- We would like, if you do not mind it, ask some questions ...

-
You're very own - said the priest, fixing his clear eyes that achieved
a disturb him.

The doctor also advanced, and taking the flask was offered a cigar, asking at the same time:

-
What? Do you treat you good here?

- Thank you, do not smoke ... Yes, sir, I am treated well. There is more charity in prison than
ordinarily say.

Entablose an animated conversation. Sought, as the doctor that the lawyer, it increasingly
intimate and family, learning with interest the details of their daily lives. Insensibly passed
after questioning him about his childhood, first impressions of his life, his education, and
stood particularly in adolescence. What was his life in the seminary? What is your diet? Was
fond of solitude?

What had suffered from diseases? Enteráronse also some particularities
concerning their family. The suicide of their mother called on all
the attention, and long entertained time to ask what he knew about
who had given him being. Finally, after one-hour conversation, during
which he looked with stubborn insistence of those who going to buy
an animal, the doctor asked:

- Do we allow you now to take some information
about his skull and other measures? ...

Fr Gil, a little surprised,
agreed immediately. The doctor removed from his back pocket of his
coat a Craniometric and ribbon.

Skull took it as round, then the
bone box that protects the brain, the facial angle, the length of
the face, measured facial projection and the wall, the zygomatic arches
and mandible ...

At this point, the doctor and the lawyer exchanged
a meaningful glance.

- "We beg your open arms?

Fr Gil was on the
cross, while a sweet and melancholy eyes folded his lips. Measured
the long arms. After the hand. At this point, became a doctor and
lawyer change another look of intelligence.

Finally, after they had
heard what they wanted, took leave of him very politely, often giving
thanks for his kindness and trying to encourage good reasons.

The
next day appeared in The Future of Lancia, signed by the criminal
lawyer, a article with the title of a visit to P. Gil. Did in the
exact relationship of the interview, describing in detail the person
of the priest prisoner, and ended with a series of deep scientific
considerations on the characters anatomical, pathological and physiological
that the offender had.

"Among the anthropometric data - said in one
paragraph - common to all criminal we have seen only a slight predominance
of the parietal projection compared to the front and enough development
of the zygomatic arches and mandible. In contrast, P. Gil gives her
figure absolutely all the features that positive criminal school assigned
as peculiar to the rapist and libertine, is as follows: the outer
ear way outbound and insert a loop, bright eyes, the delicate appearance
(except of the jaw), straight hair, skin morbid hands very long and
somewhat effeminate in the set. "

FI