 Only Ms
Trinidad, large dotted lady and friend to impose its will around the world, opposed strongly and
withdrew from the meeting bland. Pasáronse ladies without their help, and setting a monthly amount,
would be paid to cleavage, sent the boy Lancia seminar, capital of the province where we are.

Gil was a model seminarian, applied, sweet, respectful, caring religious practices and showing
great enthusiasm in them. The ladies who had no reason to congratulate the resolution. When
I came to Peñascosa holiday, brought to each Rector's letter expressing his satisfaction with
the conduct and progress of the fatherless. In the two or three months I stayed there, they provided
some services, reviewing the lessons to their children, assisting them in their prayers or
serving as a clerk, etc. Lived home of Ms Eloisa. Every summer they would turn a little, the child
became a man. At last he three consecutive years to come, to take the last orders. Decision time
to become a priest. When he appeared at last a day in costume Peñascosa priest, his presence
caused deep emotion in the heart of their protection. All mothers were considered him, and
therefore entitled to mourn for joy and fell into his arms tenderly. Certainly, these reliefs were
once loving some bickering between them. Because less loving and tolerant with the child had shown
were most extreme now with the man. This out of their boxes to Ms. Eloisa, Ms Ms Theodora and
Martial, always treated him with gentleness and even mime.

Preparations began for the first mass. It was a contest of beauties
among them.

The rich, as Ms Eloisa and Mrs Theodora, was commissioned to buy the cup and ornaments more
expensive: those who did not have such good fortune, as Ms Rita Ms Filomena and others, supplied
the money with the skill of their hands embroidering the alb, stole and altar cloth, which
caused admiration. Fixed the church and took part in the adornment not only these women, but
many of the people, their friends. It was an event Peñascosa brand, both for the quality of
the people who had paid for the race young priest, for the terrible circumstances that had led
to such protection. The officiating was named godmother to Ms. Eloisa, an indication of that.
None was better right to do so, but all are believed to both, and this secret resentments rise again
palabrillas and some unpleasant.

The pay he returned to the village and sang, his voice weak and trembling

-
Dominus vobiscum.

All the voices of the podium, tears and falls, accompanied by the roar answered body:

- Et cum spiritu tuooooo.

- What is white! - Said a young artisan's
companion at his side.

- Looks like a picture.

Sang D. Narciso high-pitched voice, lowering and raising the tone and listened with pleasure,
epistle.

- Child, how repicotea the chaplain! - Repeated the craft.

-
You see, there is the daughter of the hunchback.

Want to show off.

He was very kind accredited in the town that D. Narcissus and the girl felt a mutual Osuna
inclination, but only the spirits heterodox and thugs dared to say high voice. D. Narcissus
was indeed given much to live among the weaker sex to enter the fort. So would Sarrió came about
three years, more or less, was the idol of the ladies Cliff by his elegant appearance, which
was contrast to the shabbiness of the most priests of the town, for his cheerful conversation,
for his little jokes and, above all, his love to be always among them.