 There seemed
Indian lady but transported from the aristocratic salons of the court.

- Fernanda How elegant! - Said the Count quietly, bowing involvement.

Beauty hardly deigned to smile, extending a little lower lip with
a slight sneer.

- How are you, Luis? - Said extending his hand with
marked indifference.

- Not as good as you ... but in the end, I have
visited.

- Nothing more than passing?

... Sorry. I will most perfectly, no you're wrong - said in the same dismissive tone, without looking
at his face.

- How not to be everywhere that show the star Sirius?

- Exemption,
boy, do not understand astronomy.

- Sirius is the brightest star
in the sky.

That's what everybody knows.

- Well, I did not know ... You see, as I am a paddle!

- Not true, but is fine modesty, coupled with the beauty and talent.

-
No, if I know full well that I have no talent.

Do not beat yourself up to tell me.

- Daughter, you express just the opposite ...

The dismissive tone
of Fernanda was entering a bit of bitterness.

In the count's, paused, ceremonious, cautioned slight hint of irony.

-
Come on, then you have understood backwards.

- Some of it has been
forever.

- Wow, what a gallant! - Said the little pale.

- Whenever
you thought you could tell something unpleasant - was quick to rectify
the Earl, warned by the change in appearance of the idea crossed his
mind.

- Thank you.

I believe your words as they deserve.

- You would do wrong not sincere esteem ... Also, I need not tell
you how much you're worth.

That's what everybody knows.

- Thank you.

Are you tired of playing?

- It hurts a little grinding.

- Take it off.

- Are all?

- Those
who hurt you, son.

Ave Maria!

- With what indifference you say!

You do not mind anything, of course?

- I always feel the ills of others.

- The neighbor! What horror!

Was not aware of having already reached the category of neighbor.

- What is it, boy, the honors come when least expected.

In spite of the flippant and even aggressive tone, Fernanda did not move the site, taking always
arm in arm to the friend, who did not open his lips.

By looking a little, might note that the heiress was very nervous. With his foot was tapping on
the floor, clutched in his hand with the tissue contractions alive and his lips trembled so
almost imperceptible. Some Arabs beautiful eyes marked a paler circle than usual. He's interested
in boxing.

The Count de Onis had been of her boyfriends that lasted longer. Appearing Fernanda in society, and even
before, when she was a zagalita the maid was going to school was her figure, elegance and
above all the threat of the six million that were to fall, walking time, in her lap, an explosion
of enthusiasm. There were no more or less handsome young or wealthy on his own initiative or
by the insinuations of his family is not resolved to pasearle the street to meet her at the exit
of the school, to send little notes and compliments tell on the ride. De Sarria, snow and
other towns in the province also attended, under the pretext of the fairs, some greedy. The girl,
boasts with such compliance, drunk with incense, he did not rest point taking and releasing
boyfriends. It was rare that the gallant lasted more than a couple of months in his grace.
In reality none were in a position to deserve it. In Lancia and the rest of the province who
have had their finances provided dowry. If any existed, was not qualified by age to marry so
young bud. Would be some Indian tropical damaged by the heat, or rustic and solitary mayorazgo
those living in their ancestral homes. Without his father warned, the she understood that none
suited him admirably, but he enjoyed flirting with everyone, worship of youth becoming laciense.
Among the latter was, however, a young man to which no city girl had dared to raise his eyes
up with desires then marriage. It was the Count de Onis. Because of its high ranking, most
respected in the provinces where be taxed to the nobility a cult
that reveals the villain and the servant under the coat of bourgeois
with its large income from the apartment of his life and even the
mystery and silence its ancient palace, seemed to dwell in the upper
atmosphere, sheltered from the arrows of all indigenous beauties.

So precisely because he was born in the bosom of Fernanda a desire, first vaguely, then live and
yearning, of surrender. This is very human, and totally feminine needs no explanation. At the
bottom of his soul, the daughter of Rosa Estrada-felt inferior to the Count de Onis. However,
such was the adulation he had heard in some time, as shining the bright scattered about his life
dad money, which might well aspire to make her husband. If you did not think so well, at least figuratively
speaking thought the count, behind, with some disdain and familiarity affected ahead. In Lancia,
as in all small capitals, boys and girls used first-name basis. The known since childhood and have
perhaps played on the tour together authorized it. The Count de Onis had never crossed the floor
with Fernanda, although stumble every moment on the street. However, when they met for the first
time in the party of the de Mere, he gave a beautiful round and deleted your title. Luis here, Luis
beyond: seemed about to eat his name. To him the confidence was a little surprised, not dislike.
No one was hurt tutear heard by a pretty lady. Despite the concentrated nature shy of the count
and his little womanizing, Fernanda he soon contrived to make her boyfriend or at least to make such
a move by the public eye. Who found this dating perfectly justified. In Lancia had another
husband or another woman to Fernanda Count. The distance between them was retrospective, was in the
ancestors. The population believed that, for the sake of beauty, money and education of the
young bright, Count de Onis was in the case of forgetting the two
hundred and farmhands who had preceded them.

About a year lasting relationships. The couple were seen in the gathering of the ladies de Mere.
D. Juan Estrada, Rosa, in the words of his close friends, was very pleased. Several times had
suggested to the county to enter into the house, but he had not understood or had pretended not
to understand him. Fernanda is clearly suggested by one day. He escaped as could compromise. Was
it shyness? Was it pride? The same Fernanda did not realize it. But this book helped rekindle
their affection and longing. Suddenly, when least expected, when the public began to wonder
why the wedding was delayed, those cortáronse relationships. Were cut without scandal, of a
diplomatic and secretive, therefore he did More than a month that did not exist when the population
was not yet aware and friends they were kidding. The fact there was strong feeling, was mentioned
in all gatherings to infinity. Never could figure out what had been, or even which of the two
corresponded the initiative of this break. If you asked the count, said flatly that Fernanda
had left, but went too hard in this statement that did not begin to doubt their sincerity. The
heir-Rosa Estrada, without showing anything in particular, confirmed the words of her boyfriend
with surly tone he used talking about it, as well as to guide word. Because they followed the case,
if not as often, quite: both came to the gathering where they met. In addition, Fernanda, shortly
after, he began attending to the Sunday soirees at the home of Quiñones. But never again resumed
their broken relationships. Attendees suspended breath and put his whole soul into the eyes
if, as Now, former boyfriends encountered and chatted for a while. "Back on track? Will, finally
wedding? The disappointment came immediately to see the indifference with which it departs.

When I went to answer the last words of the proud heir, the Count's eyes, shedding a distracted
gaze around the room, they met others who had stuck into shining
and jealous.

She reached her friend and said with a forced smile:

- How badly are you trying, Fernanda! As always, of course ... I,
however, you know ... the same devoted idolater.

Until now.

- I feel that this devotion does not cause me cold or hot - she replied without taking a step away.

The
count gave him shrugging his shoulders in resignation and saying:

- More I'm sorry!

Sorting dancing partners, who had begun the quadrille, came back to where he was the mistress of
the house. Beside it was at that moment the famous Manuel Antonio, a of the most noteworthy
at the time that we historian. He was known thus the nickname the fag Sierra as its name.

This
is enough to know somewhat what to expect regarding their moral properties and physical. Manuel
Antonio was not young. Frisaría in fifty years, disguised with effort heroic by any battery known
then Lancia cosmetics, which were not many do very refined. A rudimentary wig, some false teeth
fitted incorrectly, a little black on the eyebrows and lipstick, much patchouli and a fancy dress
appropriate to highlight the waste of her beauty. It had been wonderful, a rare perfection of face
and figure. Tall, slim, slim, good features, tiny, blonde hair, fine, falling into graceful
curls, rosy cheeks and high-pitched voice. From this set gorgeous was only a shadow where he could
guess. The back was arched upright; the beautiful curls were gone like a happy dream, some unseemly
wrinkles that furrowed forehead, and the row of pearls, which he held his mouth, had become yellow
bone race, rickety, that time and the dentist was inducted awkwardly replaced. Finally, the
small silky mustache had thickened considerably, it was white bristly, unruly, not enough
dye and cosmetics to keep presentable.

What a pain to the beautiful hermaphrodite Lancia and also for friends who had known him in
the glory of his grace!

The spirit remained as young as ten and eight years. It was the same to be passionate and tender,
sweet at times, angry and terrible other, marching to the breath of his whims, languid living in
idleness. Both enjoyed the delights of the bath, which he repeated three or more times until the
water is crystal clear as to leave the source, loved flowers, birds, he had more pleasure
than talking to the mirror glass ornaments that would suit better. The costumes, by irresistible
attraction, being male, approached as possible to the female form. In short talmita spent
the winter with a gold brooch and a hat Tyrolean twisty wings, which suited him extremely well. In
the summer he liked to dress white flannel suits well tight, who denounced the graceful curves
of their forms. Ties were almost always made of gauze, low-cut shoes, the shirt collar with
seafood. Below fist saw him a bracelet. Although there were more than a simple gold ring, this detail
was what attracted the attention of their fellow citizens.

As spoken Manuel Antonio left the damn bracelet to light, as if there was nothing in his interesting
figure worthy to excite curiosity.

But if the years had not been changed in the bottom one being kind and created for love habíanle
fact, however, more cautious, more reserved. And showed no preference with the ingenuity of
the past, or give vent to the sudden outbursts of his heart flammable but after testing the
loyalty of the object of their affection. He had suffered many disappointments in life! Above
all, getting old, not only experienced the coldness of old friends, those who had given clear
evidence of affection, but, is even sadder, he found, without thinking, white serving and invectives
at chufletas the lads of the new generation. It was the laughingstock of these insolent youth. As
had not witnessed their triumphs and met her radiant beauty, were far from professing respect
that, despite everything, he kept to the old generation. They did not spare tease average of
vex him savagely. As he stood in the street Altavilla or entered the cafe of Maranhao, and was
surrounded by a party of jokers. Christ, phrases could be heard there! And as villains who were often
passing game of words to hands. This was what I could in no way suffer Manuel Antonio. They speak
what they want. Had enough belt, plus a lively and subtle wit admirably collected ridicule and knew
he hit his face with his opponents. Most of the time they were going to "take hair "shorn went
very well. The years, the practice had been trained so In boxing incisive phrases that really
was awesome. Had the intention of a Miura. But so those shameless passed from words to works
by touching the face or pinching, and was broken, completely lost his temper and not say anything intentional
even reasonable. Superfluous to add that, knowing the skinny, all the jokes ended in this way.

Moreover, out of that evil intent to injure as people living in the which could compete and still
believe that was ahead of Maria Josefa, was a useful and helpful. Malignancy, after all, was
the result of which he showed him. Their skills many and various. Working point of giving glory
crochet. The quilts that he did not Lancia had rival. An altar and arranged the pictures better
dressed than any sacristan. Upholstered furniture, exquisite flowers made of wax, papering rooms,
embroidered with hair, painted plates. And when one of his many friends needed for Hair Design
attend any dance, Manuel Antonio gallantly lent fix their hair and did so with the same skill
and taste the best hairdresser in Madrid. Why, and when any of his friends got sick? Then it
was to see the interest, perseverance and the utmost diligence of our old Narciso. It was immediately
to the bedside, taking account of medicines, arreglábale bed poníale blisters or aid the same as more
skilled practitioner. Then, if the disease unfortunately had a bad temper, I knew as anyone suggest
the idea of ??confession so that the patient, instead of panicking, accept it as natural and
ordinary thing. And as he looked confident, began to make arrangements to receive His Divine
Majesty: the lady to get more seasoned people principal in their classrooms would bring him
no advantage. The small altar crowded with starched cloth of glittering gizmos, the staircase
decorated with potted plants, floor carpet of leaves Rose, servants and relatives waiting at
the gate with lighted torches and gloved. No he forgot one detail. At this critical moment the
queen of Sierra thrived, adopted the continent of a general leading his troops. All obeyed
him and seconded by abiding by per head. For if the patient was dying, I must not say that his
dictatorship was still more powerful. Beginning with shrouding the body and ending with out of
court the death certificate, nothing remained in the funeral ceremonies that he did not bully.

And
since most of the time was sick to care for, or pictures that dress, or friends to comb or
flowers that counterfeit, Manuel Antonio spent his life very busy. In this and go from house
to house taking and releasing news is slipping day and age.

Lived two sisters older than him, which he guarded and pampered like a child. For these Ladies
good time did not exist. Nor were the wrinkles, no wig, no false teeth of his brother. Manuel
Antonio was always a chick, a dude. Their costumes, bathrooms, the hours used in the hit they were
smiling with benevolence. While they complained bitterly about the damage that the years were caused
by him and his health, thought that his brother had stopped the course of hours, had found an elixir
to keep forever young.

Manuel Antonio was methodical in his visits. There were a few houses which he attended daily and always
at the same time. A house of D. Juan Estrada, Rosa was at three, when coffee; the Countess de
Onís took chocolate every evening, at night was a regular Tertullian
Madame de Quiñones.

There were other families who also visited frequently. A Josefa María Hevia House and Matthew used to
go in the morning, without stopping a lot, giving around to find out what was said or inspect
their work. One night was also home of the Misses de Mere.

- Here is the count! - Exclaimed with his peculiar intonation effeminate .-- Oh, what condecito
such a joker!

- Why? "- Said this approach.

- Just ask Amalia.

The smile that noble folded lips suddenly vanished.

- How? ... What has to do ?...-- said with ill-concealed embarrassment.

Amalia

also was troubled. Her pale cheeks were stained.

- We have been whispering about you.

What have you cut suit, boy!

- Here Manuel Antonio - Amalia uttered - said you were the dog in
the manger.

- No, you were who you said.

Another peculiarity of this was the tutear everyone, young and old, ladies and gentlemen.

- Yo! - Exclaimed the lady.

- Why I am a dog in the manger?

... Let us know.

- For Amalia said that neither wanted to eat the flesh and allow the
point D. Santos.

- Vamos!

Will you shut up, you liar? - Said the lady, half angry, half laughing,
giving a pinch.

- What we talk about D. Santos? - Asked a gentleman
very short and very broad, chubby face and purple, approaching the
group.

The Count and Amalia did not know what to say.

- It said that D. Santos had planned to take a day to its possession of the Castañeda and give
us a banquet - Manuel Antonio said confidently.

- No, it was not that - "said the stocky man with a forced smile.

- Yes this. Amalia argued that you could not lead us to spend a day at the Castro.

- But, man, you've committed to get you red today! - Said it.

- Because I'm a good friend. As I see pale these days ... Well you can believe it, Santos, I I have
a much better idea of ??your splendor that most of the people ... D. You do not know either
Santos, I often say to those who argue that it hurts you spend the money. If D. Santos not
spend, no treats its friends, not by greed but by laziness, because not presented occasion. The
man is shy of him and can not propose Facilities or tour, but someone else to point the idea,
and see how gladly accepts ...

- Thanks, thanks, Manuel Antonio - whisper D. Santos with the laughter of the rabbit.

He knew the great fear and distress that was upon him. Like many of the Indians, in spite to be
immensely rich, was known as greedy, and not unjustified. He had arrived a few years ago in
Cuba, where the first loading boxes of sugar and then selling enriched. Made a Bedouin came without
any news of what was happening in the world, not knowing greet, nor uttered a dozen words correctly,
or even walk like other men. The thirty years he spent behind a desk had numb legs. Going staggering
like a drunkard. The color in his cheeks was so characteristic, that Lancia, where few people escaped
without a nickname, he was appointed shortly after arriving the Garnet. In the midst of his
misery he liked to give to the face with the wealth he possessed. Suntuosísima built a house,
brought marble from Carrara, Barcelona decorators, furniture Paris,
etc. And yet, notwithstanding the large sums spent therein, to pay
the clove account was determined to be discounted weight paper and
strings coming wrapped the ends in Paris!

Had been carefully keeping in a corner such offal for that purpose. So ended the house, occupied
the main floor and rent the other two. Y began his martyrdom, a slow and terrible martyrdom. The
servants and children of the second and third were their executioners. If he felt the second mop
floors, put in a bad mood: sand wore the floorboards. If I saw stucco lined the staircase by the hand
of a barbarian boy, he kindled the anger and mutter ominous words and death threats. If heard
a door shut with violence, the blow reverberated painfully in his heart unraveled hinges, latches
all spoiled. Finally, with such a start lived, that he fell into a passion of mind and began
to decline noticeably. As a friend miserable like him, but vivant, advised him to leave the
house and move to another. So he did, turning the inn that had housed the palace built while.

But
missing from D. Santos required complement of all the profiteers loading boxes sugar in America
lacked marry a woman of class, young or old, ugly or pretty. None of his colleagues agreed
to never marry a craftswoman. Garnet could not be less than that. On the contrary, having more
money than anyone, it is natural for them to take advantage in powerful cravings. It was put round
eyes and bitter in the most beautiful girl, swanky richer and the city: Fernanda Estrada-Rosa no
less. The event caused admiration and laughter in the neighborhood.
Very high Lancia idea that they had the power of money, no one imagined
it was powerful to make such an undertaking. Casar to the jewel the
province with the red bear! The girl gave her astonishment and indignation.
Then he took a joke. Then again outraged. Then turned to laugh. Finally
became accustomed to Maroon to the festivities and even found some
self-satisfaction in receiving your attentions and give all kinds
of contempt. But he did not let up. With the tenacity of the bumblebee
that resolves to get a glass a hundred times and crashes against the
barrier, pumpkins, disdain and even ridicule did not go back more
than momentarily. The next day again as if nothing to break his head
against the contempt of the proud heir