 Some honest men who were there wanted to raise and throw the constable
out of church, to avoid scandal. But my master stopped them hand and ordered all under penalty
of excommunication not in your way, rather than let him say everything he wanted. And thus,
he too was silent, while the sheriff said everything I said.

As silent, my master asked if I wanted to say more, say it.

The sheriff said:

"Fed is more to say about you and your dirty, but enough for now."

Mr. Commissioner knelt in the pulpit, and his hands and looked up to heaven said thus:

"Lord God, to Whom nothing is hidden and everything manifest, for whom nothing is impossible,
everything is possible, you know the truth and how I have been accused unjustly. In As for myself,
I forgive you because you, Lord, forgive me. Do not look at anyone who does not know what
he says or does, but the injury done to Thee, I pray, I pray for justice and not disregard it Because
someone here, that thinking of taking this holy bull, giving credit the false words of the
man, they will not take. And it is so harmful to others, I beg you, Lord, do not disregard it,
but a miracle here, and it thus: if it is true what it says and bring
evil and falsehood, this pulpit to sink me and meta hundred feet into
the ground, where he and I ever be seen again.

And if it's true what I say, he, won over by the devil to remove and deprive those who are present
as great good, speaks evil, is also known punished and all his malice. "

He had hardly finished his prayer devout sir, when the black sheriff of the state falls and
gives such a blow on the ground that resounded throughout the church,
and began to howl and throw foaming at the mouth and twist it and
make grimaces with the gesture, kicking and hand, rolling around on
the floor and another part.

The shouts and cries of the people was so great that could not hear
each other.

Some were really terrified.

Some said

"The worth God help him."

Others:

"It serves him right, it stirred up such false testimony."

Finally, some who were there, and in my opinion not really afraid,
they came and locked him arms, with which he'd been thrashing those
who were near him.

Others rushed by the legs and had a hard time because there was no mule in the world so hard
Pulling kick. And so I had a great time, because more than fifteen men were upon him, and hit them
all, and if neglected, in their noses.

By the way, my master was in the pulpit on his knees, hands and eyes
in the sky, carried in the divine essence, that the plant and noise
and voices in the church had no part in apartalle of divine contemplation.

Those

good men went to him and woke him up crying and begged him aid the poor man was dying, and
not to look at things past nor to his bad, because as them had to
pay, but if anything could take that man out of danger passion and
suffering, for God's sake do so, because it was obvious the guilt
of the guilty and his truth and goodness, as to your request and vengeance,
the Lord did not prolong the punishment.

Mr. Commissioner, as if waking from a sweet dream, looked and looked at the offender and all
those who were her surrounding, and very slowly he said:

"Good men, you do habíades to pray for a man in whom God has so signally noted, but as he commands
us not to return evil for evil and forgive injuries, with confidence we beg you to do what he commands
us, and His Majesty forgive it offended you by putting obstacles in their holy faith. Let's all
suplicalle. "

And so it came down the pulpit and instructed to devoutly beseeching our Lord had for good
to forgive the sinner, and get back on their health and sanity, and releasing the devil, if His
Majesty had allowed for his great sin he entered. They all got down knees, and before the
altar with the clergy began to softly chant a litany. And coming him with the cross and holy
water, having sung about him, my master, put their hands to heaven
and eyes that seemed almost nothing but a little white, begins a sentence
no less long than devout, with which he mourn all the people as often
Hazer in the sermons of Passion, a preacher and devoted audience,
pleading with our Lord, it was not the death of the sinner, but his
life and repentance, that he aimed persuaded by the devil and death
and sin, he wanted to forgive and give life and health to repent and
confess their sins.

And this fact, he ordered the bull and putting it on the head, and then the sinner of a constable
gradually began to get better and turn itself. And when he was back in his, and fell at the foot of
the Commissioner and demandóle forgiveness, and admitted that the mouth that and command of
the devil, an injury done to him anger and revenge, the other, more primary because the devil
would really be hurt the good that could be made to take the bull. Mr. My master forgave him, and
friendships were made between them, and take the bull was so haste,
almost a living soul in the place was not without it: husbands and
wives, sons and daughters boys and girls.

Divulgóse the news of what happened in the neighboring towns, and when we got to them, did not
give a sermon or go to church, came to the inn to take like pears
to make themselves freely.

So in ten or twelve more of those alderredor Wherever we went, my master threw a good thousand
indulgences without preaching a sermon.

When he did the test, I confess my sin that I was also shocked and thought dello ANSI was,
like many others, but after seeing the laughter and fun that my master and the officer had
and doing business, it had all been met by the industrious and inventive my master. {Acaeciónos
elsewhere, which I will not name in his honor, the following, and my master was two or three sermons
preached and God do the bull took. Seen by the Case my master what had happened and that, although
he said were wary of a year, and were not taking advantage as rebels take it and that his work was
lost, he rang the bells to say goodbye. And made his sermon and fired from the pulpit, and
we wanted down, called the clerk and me, who was charged with a wallet, and Hizon reach the first
step, and took the sheriff the hands that had and had not in the
bags, put them near his feet, and it became a place in the pulpit
with a happy face and throw from there, tens and twenties in twenty
of his bulls to all parties, saying:

"My brethren, take, take of
the graces God sends you to your homes, and do not hurts, it is so
pious work the redemption of Christian captives which are land Moors.

Because they do not renege on our holy faith and go to the pains of hell, even Help them with
your charity and five paternosters and five Hail Marys, to come out of captivity. And yet
also take advantage for the parents and brothers and relatives you have in Purgatory, as you will
see in this holy bull. "

As the people saw them throw ANSI as something that was for nothing
and be coming from the hand of God, they took more take, even for
children from the cradle and all its defunct, having from children
to the lowliest servant, counting on their fingers.

Vimon in such haste, as I aínas I'd just break a poor old coat he had, so that VM certify that
in little more than an hour was no bull in the panniers, and it was necessary go to the inn for
more.

Finished taking all my master said from the pulpit to his clerk and the council that rise and,
to be known who were the ones to enjoy the holy indulgences and pardons
of the holy bull, and that he give a good account of who had sent
him, were written.

And then they all very willingly said they had taken, having ordered the children and servants
and the deceased. Made his inventory, he asked the mayors to charity, because he had to do elsewhere,
ordered the clerk to give him authority to inventory and memory of those who were there, which he said
the clerk, were more than two thousand. Done this, he was dismissed with much peace and love,
and so they patros us of this place, and even before that we left, he was asked by the curate
and the aldermen if Bull profit the infants who were in the womb, to which he replied that
according to letters he had studied not, they might have to ask doctors older than him, and
that this was what I felt about this business.

ANSI E we departed, leaving all very happy with the good business. My master said to the bailiff and
clerk:

"What do you think, as these villains, that just say" old Christians
are "without charities, think to be saved without compromising any
of their holdings?

Well, for the life of graduate Pascasio Gómez, which expense they'll more than ten captives. "

And
thus we went to another place at that end of Toledo, to the Channel, said, where others encounter's
overwhelming to take bulls.

Made my master and the others who were going our proceedings, two parties that were there had not
been thrown thirty bulls. Seen by my master the great destruction and the great expense he had, (and)
the crafty ardideza my master had to make spent with his bulls, was that this day DIJA high mass,
and after finishing the sermon and returned to the altar, took a cross that brought a little
more than an inch, and a brazier of fire above the altar they had, which had brought to warm
his hands because it was great cold, put him behind the missal without anyone looking into
this and there without saying anything he put the cross above the fire. And, because the Mass
was over and tossed the blessing, he took it with a handkerchief, tightly wrapped the cross in
his right hand and the other the bull, and so they got to the season step of the altar, where he
was kissing the cross, and beckoned them to come to worship the cross.

And thus came the first mayor and the elders of the place, coming one to one as used. The first
that came, it was a old mayor, although he gave kiss rather delicate cross is burned their
faces and quickly took off. Seeing this my master said to him:

"Step, I am, Mr. Mayor! Miracle!"

And thus another seven or eight, and they all said:

"Step, gentlemen!

Miracle!"

When he saw that the rostriquemados enough to witness the miracle, did not want to give more to
kiss. Climbed up to the altar and said wonderful things there, saying that the low charity that
was in them had God allowed this miracle and that cross was to be taken to the holy church of his
diocese, that the little charity that the people had, the cross burning. I was so fast that there
was in taking the bull, not enough two notaries neither the clerics nor sacristanes writing. I
think certainly that took more than three thousand bulls, as I have said to VM then to leave,
he went with great reverence, as a reason, to take the Holy Cross, saying he had to do engastonar
in gold, as was fitting. He was begged much of the council and clergy of the place to leave
that holy cross there in memory of the miracle occurred there. He in no way wanted to do and finally
begged by many, was left; with another cross that gave old woman
who had old money, which can weigh two or three pounds, they said.

And thus we departed happy with the good exchange and have negotiated well. In all he saw no
one above except me, because I climbed the altar to see if anything had been blisters, for putting
it into recovery, as usual I was his custom. And there saw me, he began his finger in his mouth
signaling me to shut up. I long did it because I met, but, after I saw the miracle could not pour
it out in me, but fear of my astute master did not let me communicate with anyone, and never
left me, because I swore not discovered the miracle.

And thus I did until now}.

And while a young boy, much cayóme in grace, and I said to myself:

"WITH THESE many must these mockers on innocent people!"

Finally, I was with my fifth master about four months, which also
passed {sufficient hardships, but I was well fed at the expense of
priests and other clergy would do to preach.}

Sixth Treaty How Lazaro
Went to a chaplain, and what happened to him

Then I began, I settled
with a painting master Molella tambourines for the colors, and also
I had a thousand evils.

Already at this time a good little boy, coming a day in the great church, a chaplain I got by
him, and set me on to a donkey and four pitchers and a whip, and I began to water by the cibdad.
This was the first step I got to come to achieve good life because
my mouth was measured.

Given each day to my master thirty coppers earned, and Saturday was up to me, and everything
else during the week, thirty coppers.

FUEM so well in the job that after four years I used it, to bring
in profit safe place, saved for me very honestly wear old clothes,
which bought a doublet of fustian old and frayed coat with braid on
the sleeves and gate, and a cape that had been velvety, and an old
sword first de Cuellar.

Soon as he saw me dressed as a gentleman, I told my master to take
his donkey, he did not want more follow that profession.

Seventh Treaty How Lazaro Went to a sheriff, and what befell him

Dismissed the chaplain, I settled for a man of justice with a sheriff, but very short lived with
it, because it seems dangerous calling, mostly, that night we ran to me and my love with stones
and sticks a withdrawn, and my master, who waited, treated badly, but I do not hit. This renounced
the deal.

And thinking about how to live my seat would have rest and win something for old age God lit up
and get on track and profitable way, and with the help of some friends and gentlemen, all my toil
and hardships up to that time were paid to achieve what I sought, it was a real job, seeing
that no one who prospers except those who have; in which I live today and I live to serve God
and your grace.

And it is that I have charge of pitching the wine sold in this city, and in auctions and lost, accompanying
those who suffer persecution for justice and loudly declare their crimes: preacher, speaking
in plain {, in which office a day hanging a pickpocket in Toledo
and had a good rope of straw, I met and I realized that the sentence
my blind love Escalona had said, and regretted the poor payment I
gave him so much who taught me that, after God, he gave me to reach
the state industry that now this.}

Hame happened so well, I've used
so easily, that almost all things regarding trade go through my hand
while across the city that out wine to sell or something, if Lázaro
de Tormes does not understand it, it is of no benefit.

At this time, seeing my ability and good living, taking picture of me Mr. archpriest Sant Salvador,
my lord, servant and friend of your worship, because it proclaimed
its wines wanted me to marry her maid, and seen for myself that this
person could not come but right and advantage, I resolved to do