 One of the hills is in the eastern margin the
river, and four or five are in the western side.

Another notable Paraguay narrowness is below the three hills that are to the the west, called
the Three Brothers, at the foot of another high hill, called Bread Sugar, about twelve leagues
below the Three Brothers, and is the highest of all who found from the Assumption to Tacuarí. Is
on the eastern margin, and from there continued a ridge towards the east. There in the west, in
front of Pan de Azucar, another small hill and some distance to the part of the north-west,
is another not very big. The narrow aforesaid, and the Sugar Loaf,
are at 21 degrees 17 minutes.

It is then, down the Paraguay, the river mouth Tepotí at 21 degrees 45 minutes. Then in front
of an island, or something above, is the mouth of the river currents, so called by the mainstream
that it brings. This river has its origin next to the fountain of Guatimí that Paraná enters
the big jump. The river flows into the Paraguay Currents in 22 degrees and 2 minutes. Two or three
miles away is the south-west the hill Galvan, it is only in the western side. This lower part
of this a bunch of great mountains. At the south side of the river are too many hills and
narrow with strong currents, with peñasquería the sides of the river, and called this step Itapucú-wolf.
Is at 22 degrees and 10 minutes.

Below is a tip that is another narrow ridge, and ends this rock tip cut off, and lies about eight
miles from the Itapucú-wolf.

Sign in below, on the eastern margin, the Rio Guarambaré in 23 degrees 8 minutes, and in front
of the mouth is an island. For the 23 degrees and 21 minutes are scattered stones middle of
the river, so in this stage should navigate with caution. Ipan river-wolf flows into the Paraguay,
at latitude 23 degrees 28 minutes. His mouth is facing a island. Download this river of yerba
mate that are north of Curuguatí, and has its origin near the Guatimí. In the 23 degrees 51 minutes
between the Paraguay, on the western margin, the Cookers river, and
a short distance below the same band enters the Verde River.

Al front of these two rivers there are four islands. Lower in the Banda Oriental enters mini
Ipan in 21 degrees and 2 minutes.
Ipan below the mini, in 24 degrees and 4 minutes, we found that looked
straight needle to the north, and can not be attributed to other causes
to the proximity of some iron ore stone or magnet, of which there
is enough in the jurisdiction of Paraguay