 

Pepa plan had changed: he thought it would be much better to take the diplomatic channel. A boy as Emilio,
who had been unruly until then, it was easy to lure him with affection. He, in the darkness of
the car had been red.

- The Mary Huerta is worthless.

- So you like. All men are the same thing about changing the ears and tail. Look, Emilito - said
taking his hand, - I had to reñirte much talk very seriously say bitter things ... but I can not,
I have a heart so stupid that for all offenses is apologize. Today you have made a mark evil
thing, enough to Irene to separate from you, but to me it seems to
me that is not as great as it sounds, because you are a dazed boy.

I'm sure you yourself do not you explain the seriousness of it ....

Pepa continued his sermon sweet tone and persuasive. Emilio, he expected a dash of insult, was
pleasantly surprised. Escuchólo with submission, and then, with trembling voice, began to
apologize. Truth that had flirted a bit with Mary Huerta, but swore he was not interested in
her. It was a matter of pride. When he was married to Irene, Mary had told this house Osorio
Irene did not understand how a husband accepted a guy so ugly and pointless. Then swore he
would swallow those words was already achieved.

Otherwise what love and what pumpkins! I had never been in love with Mary Huerta and thought
to be.

- I could not believe you were in love, because you've always had good taste .... Because in short, that
woman is nothing but a bundle of rags .... If you saw the broomstick
as it may well take his place .... But you see, Irene believe it and
you have an obligation to avoid these troubles.

If I were in your case I would give them, puppet - added seizing fondly of the ear -. I have
you would know it tided my skirts.

- I believe - said the young
man directing a long look that had nothing to subsidiary -.

You Irene has more resources.

- Why?

"- She asked another look little maternal.

- Because you are a woman more complicated, it needs more study.

By the same token, I would time for boredom.

- What do you know that, mamarrachillo? You talk about me as if I only knew by heart.

- What else would I!

- Go, Emilio, you're not clown! Look, you're disrespecting me.

The conversation continued in this light-hearted and loving as the
carriage rolled through the streets bleak.

In that dark corner, rocked by the motion of the springs and dazed by the noise of the wheels
to jump on the floor, the whisper became increasingly intimate, more
insinuating, busy all the time by chuckles and sweet little words.

In both had taken a soft tenderness; Pepa for having found his son
so docile, it to see his mother so loving and compromising, thinking
to find a fury.

Animated with its success, caressed by the sweet confidence suddenly
established between them, did not stop compliments.

Pepa got angry or upset pretended, gave pinching fierce called him
a hypocrite, flirtatious, shameless.

He concluded by saying:

- All that you say yours is a farce. If it were true I would be glad, because that would some
influence on you to make a good husband.

Out of the car, face on, more beautiful than ever, said:

- Upload a moment: I have to give the watch to Irene, that you forgot yesterday.

Emilio's arm rose and went with her in his cabinet.

Meanwhile, Irene came home in an agitated state in easy to understand sensitive girl and loved
her husband. Emilio's conduct that night had upset, had put too nervous. And for a grand finale,
the violent scene which provided between her mother and her husband, which would perhaps his final
break with it, filled it terror.

So, I just jumped to the ground before the door, a sudden rush of
a live irresistible desire, remounted hastily, saying the driver:

-
A Mom's.

He opened the outer door serene: the floor the servant who
had been watching and Master output waiting to go to cost.

- Where's
Mom?

- In the front room with Miss Emily.

Irene went to the room hastily. Not there. He went to the boudoir. Nor, or heard the slightest
noise. He entered the cabinet. Nothing. Then, overcome with terror, doubt, anxiety, threw
himself into the room concealed by curtains of brocade which thought he heard a rumor. At that
moment the curtain rose and her husband appeared agitated and upset, staring with terrified eyes.
Irene gave a scream and collapsed on the pavement.

XII

# Matinée religion. #

A few days later, at eleven o'clock on a Friday of Lent, the finest wild Madrid came from a
peaceful sleep and deep with the firm intention to marry the daughter Calderon. He opened his eyes, walked
by the horse ornaments hanging on the walls of his room, stretched gracefully, she drank a glass
of lemon that was on the table night and prepared to rise. Not claim that the said order to come
to his spirit during sleep, but it is undeniable that it must have operated in a mysterious work
that benefited significantly.

Because at the time of going to bed, thinking only vaguely Castro this fruitful union. He opened
his eyes, his determination to achieve by hand Esperancita every
means in their power was now irrevocable.

Thus welcome wholeheartedly the lucky girl and carefully follow the
noble savage in the task of perfecting the Nature cunning work that
had been carried out to create you.

The servant had already prepared the bath. After taking a look in the mirror to observe the
face the day, this is yours, took a ball of iron and made them some moves. Took a foil and threw back
a few times. Then applied a few dozen punches straight on the pad of a dynamometer. Fact which he
thought came the moment of getting in the water. Inside it was even when he appeared in the
room, unannounced, Manolo Dávalos.

- Pepe, I have to tell you about something very serious - he said
the lunatic Marquis, with unit mystery eyes more lost than ever.

-
Wait a little, let me leave the bathroom.

- Go early, it is urgent.

The marquis rose from his chair he was sitting and began to walk around
the bizarre stay with some trepidation, to which his friends were
accustomed.

I could not keep still five minutes. If any hiciese after half a day of movement he would
fall surrendered before nightfall.

Castro followed his movements with mocking eyes and dismissive.

But these eyes became serious and anxious to see his friend approached to the bedside table and began
to play with a gun that there was precious.

- See what is loaded, Manolo.

- I see, now - he replied, smiling, and turning suddenly:

- What
they say in Madrid, if I kill you now have a shot?

Pepe Castro felt some tingling in the back, which was not produced
only by water, and laughed in a strange way.

- So, today, I could
do with impunity - remained very cheerful the Marquis -.

Because as everyone says I'm crazy ....

- Ha, ha!

The philandering laugh again as the rabbit. It was not cowardly, in contrast, had a reputation
for fastidious and swordsman, but, like most courageous public needed. The prospect of a dark death
at the hands of a madman, did not damn funny. Examples of Seneca, Marat, and other remarkable
men who died violently in the bathroom failed to give any amenity perhaps because they had no
news.

The marquis advanced with cocked revolver, saying:

- What they say in Madrid? Huh? What say?

Castro was besieged cold penetrated as if stuck in ice and not in warm water. But even serenity
had to yell:

- Leave the gun, Manolo! If you do not leave do not return to see in your life to Amparo.

- Why? - Said that lowering the gun with bereavement painted eyes.

-
Because I do not want, for the advise that you do not let in more
at home ....

- Well, man, trouble not thyself .... It was a joke
- said rushing to put the revolver in place.

Castro went to the bathroom immediately.

The first thing he did when he was involved in the cap that dried Turkish, was to take the
gun and keep it low key.

Quiet now, but irritated by the shock that his idiot friend had given him, began to speak gruffly
and negligible, while the mirror lavished on her beautiful figure, with all due respect, all the
care that was owed.

- Let's see, man, out with the secret .... It
will be a stupid thing of which you get used to .... Kid yourself,
Manolo, you're not to go out.

You get a priest - said while rubbing her arms with a fragrant ointment
that he had taken from the battery jars and jars of all sizes before
him.

The Marquis put his hand in his pocket, and pulling out her wallet
and a little note of a woman, said with no little solemnity

- Amparo
just wrote me this letter.

I want you knowing about it.

Pepe did not even turn his eyes to look at the document that his friend
exhibited.

Absorbed in the task of stroking his mustache with a beard brush, said in a tone distracted:

-
And what does the Amparo?

The Marquis looked surprised at the lack of importance given to this beautiful letter.

- Do you want to read it?

- If it is not very long ....

Manolo unfolded with the same care and respect that if an autograph from Santa Teresa Jesus
and read with trembling voice:

"My beloved Manolo: send me the favor of the giver that I need two thousand pesetas urgently. Now
if you do not, do not forget to bring him home this afternoon. Thine heart always:

"UNDER."

- Blow! What voracity of that girl! Do not have enough to Salabert
pocket?

I guess that they are not've sent.

- No.

- You did well.

- It's that did not.

Just to see if you can facilitármelas is what I have come.

Castro turned to him and watched him a few moments between angry and surprised. Returning then view
mirror, he said quietly contemptuous:

- Dear Manolo, are a large melon. I'm sure if now inherits your aunt, handed over the legacy
of the Amparito for the engullese as it has done with your parents.

Manolo was furious to hear this. Vigorously defended his former mistress. There she was, not
who had ruined him, but the rogues of the stewards. Was a girl under excellent conditions for
a housewife, a portent of domestic arrangement: while generous, capable
of accommodating any life for the love, etc., etc.

The manic Marquis
spoke with warmth and eloquence by the eulogy of his beloved.

- Do
you know where all evil? - Said dully, after a long pause -.

In my family deprived me, for no reason, to marry her. What a stupid obstinacy! Insisted that I
was madly in love with that woman. What was to be in love!

... What I wanted was a mother to my children, you know?

Nothing more than that. They would have been happy and me too.

Pepe Castro became speechless.

For the pale cheeks of a few tears rolled Marquis of emotion. He made a gesture of sympathy
and continued grooming mustache. After few moments of silence, said:

- Exemption, boy. I have not those two thousand pesetas, but although you can be sure I had
that would keep me from going to give them to you if used as you say.

The marquis was silent and began to stroll through the spacious bedroom.

- Who do you advise me that the asking? - Said stopping suddenly.

- A Salabert - Castro replied grinning in the mirror.

Manolito hear terribly curled, his eyes flashed ominously, he went frantically waving their fists,
to Pepe, who turned to him and stepped back preparing to reject.

- That you've said is bullshit! It is an outrage that deserves a lunge or a shot! It is cowardly
because you are at home ....

And he began to gnash their teeth and rolling eyes that gave him fear, but did not attack his friend.
Making a supreme effort to hold back, vented his anger against throwing hat the ground, so that it
destroyed. Castro was stunned, made a statue. A thousand times he had joked with him saying things
much stronger, real insolence without ever would have thought angry. And now, a very simple joke,
sat in anger of that strange way. He tried to calm him with some words of apology but Manolito
not listening. Although it withdrew from the first idea to throw on him, began to walk like
a caged animal, muttering threats, waving his arms and gesturing strongly. Relent soon, however.

-
Never thought you, Pepe - concluded by saying in an agitated voice -. I never thought that the greatest
friend I have had to insult me, I had to stick the dagger to the hilt ....

- But, man! ...

- Do not talk, Pepe .... I've killed with one word .... Leave me alone .... God forgive you as I forgive
you .... I am like a rabbit hunter who wounds and runs to his dying
den .... .... I do not delve Let me die in peace.

This simile of rabbit made such an impression after being handed down,
which dropped sobbing in a chair.

At the same time he was seized with a strong fit of coughing, which
dropped mouth by a prodigious amount of rails, but the locomotive
had crossed the throat, try as he did, in any way he could throw.

Castro made him drink a cup of lime juice with orange blossoms.

When the foolish marquis was done, that ending was dressing himself.

Which came to the right street and severely dressed in ceremonial
dress day.

Lunched in Lhardy, gave a tour of The Wilds, and three in the afternoon, more or less, drove
to his aunt the marquise de Alcudia, located in San Mateo Street. This scathing lady was very
jealous of religion as we know. The same of their ancestry, not to say more. Castro was her
second cousin, and though his life had upset skull rather, he had
always treated with great affection seeking to attract the right track.

To the Marchioness, bells printed noble character as the sacrament
of order.

For more vile a man did, it was always a gentleman, as a priest always a priest. In this pious
lady thought Castro who followed him in his business.

His instinct (which was much more admirable than his intelligence) said that if the Marquise
to marry him take charge of the girl probably get Calderon. It was great prestige in her aristocratic
society: higher still among those who were added to it because of money, and Calderon.

Alcudia Palace was a bleak factory built at the beginning of last century. A floor under large
barred windows, one upstairs, and nothing more, but the house was in a perimeter huge and had a large
garden behind pretty sloppy. The site was flat and not very dignified: the rough-hewn stone staircase
and worn out. The late Marquis was thinking in a reform when it took the death. His widow left
the project, not so much Greed, for the horror that inspired all
sorts of reforms even if they were lime and singing.

Inside, the mansion was sumptuous, antique furniture and delicious. Tapestries valuable dressed
the walls, paintings of the best painters adorned some ancient parts, such as shipping and oratory.
This was a marvel of luxury.

Occupied a corner the floor, but its roof was the principal: therefore as high as the a church.
Had large stained-glass windows and the Gothic cathedrals: I was carpet as a ballroom, there
was a small platform with its organ, the altar was pretty, French style, and in the middle stood
a magnificent Ecce Homo de Morales.

It was, in short, a stay nice and elegant, heated by a large underground
oven.

In the family room the girls were alone with the work of his hands. The Marquise he was told
the office was busy writing letters. He went there after a moment to joke with premiums.

- Can you, Aunt?

- Adelante .... Ah! Is it you, Pepe? - Marquise said looking up and looking over the glasses
had been to write.

- If I'm interrupting. I wanted to celebrate with you a conference - said the gallant smile.

-
Sit for a moment. I am finishing a letter.

He provided a chair, and while Aunt Eugenia did crack the pen with your hand dry and nervous, began
to coordinate the exordium of the speech that he thought direct.

It gave the few minutes a great stroke strident should correspond
to its heading, and tearing strongly glasses, said:

- I'm yours,
Pepe.

This lowered his eyes to the ground on demand, no doubt, inspiration,
stroked his mustache, coughed slightly and then said with solemn emphasis:

-
Aunt, I do not know if God has touched me in the heart or is that
I'm tired of life I've been, but it is certain that a little while
now remember much of the advice has given me many times that I'm wanting
to formalize, to break these habits undignified that the lack of a
father and, above all, a mother and you have made me buy.

Friso and in the thirty and I think when I remember the name. I meet him, and also with my
quality of Christian .... Because in the midst of my excesses I have
not forgotten that never belong to a Catholic family in Spain and
now our class is responsible to ensure religion, by example as you
do .... The best means to promote this change I feel in my heart is
getting married ....

The gallant young man could not choose better
words to catechize Aunt Eugenia.

Tan impression he made, which came up from the couch to lay a hand on his shoulder exclaiming:

-
I'm so glad, Johnny! You do not know the pleasure you have given me! And you say you do not know if God
has touched you in my heart!

How could he be this sudden change in your being if God does not moviese? God has been, my
son, God has been, and a little too good blood you have in your veins .... You have chosen
a wife already?

The young man smiled making an affirmative sign.

- Who is it?

-
I thought Esperanza Calderon.

What do you think?

- Perfectly. She is very polite, very nice: I also want a daughter.

You see, has always been a close friend of my Peace .... Happy you had a choice ....

Castro smiled slyly and said:

- Look, man, I would rather marry a
woman from our class .... But you well know that I completely ruined
.... The young noblemen, unfortunately, are often not take on fortune.

Those that do, I do not want me I can not offer more that what they
have already, that is, a name.

So I've noticed a lacking him and have money.

- It is well thought. Although it is compromising a bit, we must save our names shame .... But Hope
is a good girl. He was raised among us. It will be a accomplished lady who will honor you.

The gallant young man did not leave that mischievous smile of irony. He was silent a moment and
said within:

- Do you know, aunt, what name we give each other at marriage in this way?

- How?

- Take manure.

The Marchesa smiled at the edge of the lips, but then getting serious,
he replied:

- No, here you can not say that, Pepe.

I repeat that this girl deserves a brilliant match.

Which is winning in this case are you .... "Are you dating now? Until
now I have no news ....

- I have not said anything yet .... I know
I'm not unsympathetic. We look with favor, but relationships, nothing.
Before you request them I wanted to consult with you, the more marked
I have today within the family in Madrid.

- Very well done. You have
acted with dignity. When it comes to marriage, that After a sacrament
of the Church, you have to keep restraint and formality. In the old
days better than these, not performed a wedding without hearing from
us soon The view of the elderly. I deeply appreciate the trust you
me, and certainly can have my approval.

- And with your help I can
count? Look I am afraid that some difficulties arise by his father
.... Metallic is a man .... Frankly, I would not suffer a snub ....

The
Marquise became thoughtful for a moment.

- Leave it to me. I will
do my best to fix it .... But you must promise me not take a step
without consulting me. Business diplomat is to be worn with caution
and skill.

- Promised aunt.

- Above all, with great care girl ....
Do not be alarmed me.

- I'll send you me.

A few moments after leaving
both the office and walked into the room, where he had some outsiders.
During Lent, the Marquise de Alcudia entertained his friends in the
evenings on Friday, dedicating them to prayer and religious practices.
Were there Ujo and Marquise and her daughter, always with mid-calf
skirts, General Patiño, Lola Madariaga and her husband with his mistress
Clementina Salabert Pascuala company and several other people, including
Father Ortega. As he actually belonged honors afternoon and was the
director of the party, all formed a group around him in the middle
of the room. But all spoke louder than him. The word was always illustrated
Piarist soft, muffled, as if never leave the room of a patient. When
he spoke, however, established the silence in the group, listened
with pleasure and veneration. The Marquise approaching, humbly kissed
her hand and asked with interest in the cold that made days suffered.

-
But are you a cold, father? "- Once asked many ladies.

- A little
nothing - replied the priest smiling sweetly.

- A little, no, enough.
Yesterday did not stop you from coughing in San Jose - said the marchioness.