 We analyze the spirit age
  of each village, attends to his interior life, you learn much in
  a word.

  
  There is no book more precious than the journey, that is, to put
  well, a geography practice: but it is also true, resuming truncated
  my thought, there can be a general ideas form on other countries
  without leaving their own, and those are precisely what I have confirmed
with my travels.

  
  

  Always my predilection In reviewing the nations remember to Germany.

I
  hasten to protest against the deduction that could be assuming
  that in politics I prefer the larger system German governments,
  not in any way, and even this protest was useless, as are written
  and published my opinions on the government of Austria.

  
  
  No, not that, I mean the German intelligence, German thinker of the
German writers, of Germany studious and serious, the German-educated
and deep.

  
  
  It is without doubt the most advanced nation Germany in Europe
  lyrics, the more people who meditate and read, the people who have
more literary consciousness, but righteousness thinker, if I use the
phrase.

  
  
  To enter Germany and begins to feel the noise leaky press books,
  the flight of the illustrated newspapers circulating, faces begin
  to be serious that the study and only the study folding, not the
political turmoil in other countries, not in existence as stunned
more.

  
  
  In Germany, unlike France, is read and studied more than is written.

  But by chance something can be compared in these two peoples?

The
  literary Spain is very popular in Switzerland and Germany, and
  England also, in Germany especially, where ceaselessly studies
  and results, comments and admires the literary treasure our country.

  

  
  But let's get into Munich, that but never arrive.
  
  A circumstance indispensable for foreigners who visit the capital
  of Bavaria and want to take full advantage is ... of knowing buried
in his stomach at least a dozen glasses of beer per day means, if
you can drink more better.

  
  
  No joke that just joined, it is true, drink beer all day and everywhere,
  with it you engage the illustrated literary polemics that make
  up life at Munich; as it appears it facilitates the use of
  the word discútense arts, literature, history, every day,
  forever, "but How? admirable, admirable, with deep knowledge, spirit
quite clear, with sound and high critical.

  
  

  In Germany it happens everyday to review the literatures of Europe,
  but magazine thorough, reasoned, profound.
  
  To enjoy the immense charm, which to me is, to discuss on letters,
  you need to know to drink beer is not beer of London, is not giving
  pale ale in the taverns of capital of Albion and the British hold
dear, no, is a nice beer that I liked very, very much, for using I
witnessed it lively and interesting discussions.

  
  

  The first visit abroad in Munich is the famous gallery of paintings
  that enriches the city [29].
  
  There is certainly plenty to see and admire in the Museum of Munich.
  It consists of nine rooms, there are superb collections of painters
  Flemish and German; delicious paintings of the Italian school and
marvelous pictures of the Spanish; there Murillos, Zurbaranes and
Velasquez, the sculpture gallery is rich in monuments Ancient Greece
and works of Canova.

  
  
  The formation of the Munich museum has chaired the order and good
  taste, the enlightened monarch who has been at the forefront
  of nation until recently, that monarch artist who has made many
  trip to Rome just to study, that both protected the artists, has
spent many sleepless nights at the magnificent gallery I speak.

  
  
  All paintings are admired there, all the pictures that elements,
  are each in their place, occupying the place belongs in the
  history of art there followed step by step since its origin and
  subsequent development to the peak of its glory in time the Raphaels
  and Murillo. In the placement of Tables hand is understood and knew
  about the Germans: no so in other museums I've visited in other countries:
what disorder which means ignorance!

  
  
  The painting is smart to spend delightful hours in the Munich museum,
  there is studied and admired, there are many works teachers,
  there are miracles of art, there are many superb paintings,
  and as I am a painter and I just museums to admire, concluded by
recommending to all who go to Munich not go without knowing.

  
  
  One of the best streets in Munich, I went through many Sometimes,
  because I was happy to study even the way the face of shops and houses,
is the Ludwig-Strasse, long, wide and beautiful.

  
  
  The shops and stores, with that special character that I meeting
  in all that is German, with that accuracy and peculiar formality,
  deserve to be careful. Entering shops, but not buy, just for
  the pleasure that I I have in all foreign nations to see and hear,
  to see to details, to hear the manner of expression, is learned and
study.

  
  
  Apart from this street, there are other very good and elegant
  [30], but is undoubtedly the best of that. Munich is a magnificent
  theater Opera near the Royal Palace, where also are represented
  comedies: one and one in German, as in Switzerland, where I heard
almost all the operas of German repertoire.

  Cuéntanse other theaters.
  
  The traveler is in Munich excellent hotels, cafes and rides: needless
to add that there are many rich libraries where you read and study
hard.

  
  
  The Central Library, one of the largest in Europe, is rich especially
  in manuscripts: some of the eighth and ninth centuries. The collection
  is precious and numerous coins: coins Greek and Roman of the
  highest antiquity.

  A wonderful book which has the aforementioned library is enriched
  with engravings Durer's original.
  

  The University Library consists of 200,000 volumes: there
  are other groups as well as schools, colleges, professorships,
  literary establishments.

  
  
  Singing society is composed of nine hundred Munich members: there
are great concerts at the Odeon: cuéntanse many casinos.

  
  
  The major churches in the capital of Bavaria are the San Miguel, the
cathedral, with its tall towers, the elegant church St. Louis, and
the very pretty church of San Pedro.

  
  
  The population of Munich, according to the latest census, is
  composed of 110.000 inhabitants.

  They have, as elsewhere, established freedom of religion,
  but the majority is Catholic in Munich.
  
  The Temple of Glory, which rises above the height gallardo Sendling
  is Doric, contains two hundred busts national celebrities. Front
  of the building one can admire colossal and magnificent statue of
bronze.

  
  
  The Isar River flows near Munich, and cheers and fertilize your
  countryside.

  Worth a look around, and in particular famous recreational site
  called Schleissheim: half a league far of the city, and it remains
a precious collection boxes, whose illustrious firms are Van Dyck,
Rubens, Privileged Tintoretto and other artists.

  
  

  Munich's main squares are those of Maximilian Joseph Odeon, Bakers
  and two others whose names I forget. Cuéntanse some statues dedicated
  to the Virgin, which I drew considerable attention, because only
in Italy had seen.

  
  
  In Munich there are many reading rooms, and both houses instruction
  charity as well understood.
  
  The prisons in their internal organization system and leave nothing
be desired.

  
  
  The family, the main foundation of society rests on Bavaria on
  the broad basis of morality, and of the home come good citizens.

The
  people can read and write, and this holy bread of the soul, instruction
  is called, you haggle and scarce in many nations European governments,
  is given and is used abundantly people in Munich and throughout Germany,
especially in Saxony, that Switzerland make up the two nations in
the world where instruction is more widespread.

  
  
  One of the magnificent buildings of Munich is the royal palace so
beautiful inside and out.

  One of the rooms that Salon has called the Beautiful: there are
  portraits beloved of all who had the monarch, including saw
  to our troubled and famous compatriot, Lola Montes, in painting
  means. The palace is beautifully dressed and decor, art and good
  taste will fill [31].
  

  The University of Munich, to which young people attending all
  nations, supplies to the capital of Bavaria a nice novelty overseas.

The
  quota of students that there are different from those from other
  countries, in costumes, customs, in all, encourages city, provides
issues to journalists and writers, gives a respectable figure to the
statistical year in beer consumption and snuff, frightens them more
than four husbands, bat challenges discussed, move, budge, tingling
[32].

  

  
  The tour of the Gardens next to the four beautiful streets that
  intersect, forming so picturesque frame, is the point appointment
and reunion of the society of Munich.

  Tivoli Gardens Hofgarten and are also delicious.
  
  # VIENNA. #
  
  The capital of Austria, situated on a plain surrounded by many
  and varied hills, appears at once to the view traveler as
  a city of importance.

  
  The description in my notes encounter is brief and concise: having
just spent fifteen days in Vienna, I was arrest can be studied with
as the capital has worth to be seen, however, as my only occupation
in Vienna outside of sightseeing and visit the most notable, I think
Vienna chapter, though short, will not contain some data and news.

  
  
  Of Leipsic and Prague, cities that I visited only in passing,
  nothing I can say, so we go in Vienna.
  
  The Danube, this striking and majestic river that has witnessed many
battles and events as witnessed important, through and around Vienna
with its waves ever turbulent.

  The appearance of the river, divided into many channels and different
  courses and in Vienna offers not respond to the idea greatness
  that it is formed has not yet visited.
  
  The streets of Vienna, with the exception of modern, are generally
  narrow.

  The general appearance of the city is not a capital of Germany:
  the face of some palaces resembles rather, Italy. There are
  however the odd building Gothic style reminiscent of medieval and
ancient colorful provided to the city.

  
  
  The most imposing and majestic church in Vienna is the San Esteban:
  its high bell tower dominates all buildings and rears its head high
  above all.
  
  Religious thought, symbolized in San Esteban, crown all noises, dome
serves and protects all ideas and sponsoring all the emotions.

  As the church is the temple democratic as possible, where
  all inequalities are leveled, or to be less so, according to
  the thought of Jesus Christ, I find that deserves censure the
  idea of ??giving to churches Christian highest height of
  all the buildings.
  

  The tower of St. Stephen is a summary of the somewhat history of
  Austria and his art has only started in 1100 graceful and
  slender could rise in 1307, using its construction over two centuries
  and depicting it thousand vicissitudes and memories. Inside
  the church responds to the from the outside announces, is majestic
  and severe.
  
  The church of the Augustinian worth being seen by more than
  a concept: apart from the beauty of the building, the famous Canova
is there one of the best sites that has marble inspired writing chisel.

  The tomb of the Archduchess Cristina, vanity magnificent mausoleum
  was built, gave origin, and therefore deserves and forgive, to
  Canova, the sculptor unrivaled deploy their talents in the work.
  The who loves the arts, however little understanding of sculpture,
  not leave without visiting Vienna.

  
  
  Another notable is the temple of San Pedro, built in 800 by Carlo
  Magno.

  His venerable antiquity and artistic beauty attract the eye of the
  beholder and content of imagination, which look like a past so
  distant and yet so strong and robust.
  
  In Vienna, however, dominated almost exclusively the religion Catholic,
  also has the good fortune to tolerate the other: There are temples
  for all religions, and placed one in front of others,
  there is indifference or hypocrisy.

  
  
  The Emperor's Palace is surely one of the best Europe is modest
  and nothing else: in the garden on the one hand he Decorating is
  a statue dedicated to Francis I. The square arms, near the palace,
  da front garden of the People whose title I have not understood
  yet, in the capital of an empire ruled with absolute form, I suppose
  that is what the French call a plaisanterie, although not
  better taste.
  
  The main streets are the Herngasse, of Lords, the Gate of Heaven and
four or five.

  I called much attention to observe that quite often traveler in
  the streets and squares columns dedicated to the Virgin,
  the Trinity and other religious symbols. I find the most expressive
  forms in religion actions are truly Christian, fleeing the
  light and sight, hiding in the sanctuary consciousness. But
  anyway, like I have a unique tolerate complacency in any respect
the views of others, say nothing against it, I issue my opinion only.

  
  
  The greatest places I had occasion to see in Vienna are the Flour
  and Joseph: Both are spacious and monumental. The traveler
  who likes to know what the old cities that do have different views,
  there are some buildings that are worth seeing.

  Sources abound in squares, which is very good.
  
  The charitable institutions are admirably understood
  and organized in Vienna: the poor, those disinherited of fortune,
  that the world scarcely deigns to look, very sweet and gentle
  religion of the Crucified picks affectionate and warm with love in
their temples hospitals: those of Vienna leave little to be desired,
are admirable.

  
  
  Literary establishments in Vienna, as in Germany, attract your attention.
  This part of Europe, the elegant Madame de Stael called the
  homeland of thought, and that is indeed the east of where we comes
  in light of scientific advances, a loving devoted care to collect
  books and literary monuments.
  
  Vienna's main library contains 300.000 volumes but selected
  works of intelligence treasures and knowledge. There, the
  most precious monuments that science has risen, are met: there,
  in the presence of so many great flow of ideas, the man understands
  his dignity, grandeur and high purpose for which it was created.
  There Queen intelligence, sovereign of the world, there can breathe
the air glory, where great pyramids rise such that signal way of the
world, there are gathered heroes thinking, intelligence athletes,
there is the true aristocracy of humanity, which account for coats
300.000 volumes: there is the pride of societies, future wealth and
glory of the past, the honor of present age.

  
  
  In the library of Vienna, philosophers, scientists and writers
  all climates and languages, brethren, by the relationship
  of soul, living together in peace: there is the best tree possible
  human genealogical lineage, these are the establishments that
  I visit with pleasure and predilection: never, in any country,
  I tried to see the armories, arsenals instruments of death that
  nothing good can say, the Libraries honor a nation, I think
  so, and doing a point to my involuntary thoughts, say some of the
Library of Vienna.

  
  
  Phoenix Works of Spanish mills, monster Lope de Vega fertility,
  which in Spain do not possess complete, it in the library of Vienna,
occupying part of a main rooms and carefully tended.

  
  
  The manuscript collection is rich and important: there are many
  Latino writers, Spanish, French and Italian: Taso manuscripts
  that the library owns are Vienna precious and of great value: the
number of manuscripts enriches the library rises to 16.000.

  
  
  There is also the capital of Austria five or six libraries,
  excellent employees at its head and numerous precious book
  collections.

  The academies, cultural centers, and other literary establishment,
  respond to the needs intellectuals of the country.
  
  The Museum of paintings is also remarkable: the Italian room contains
paintings by Andrea del Sarto, Titian, Veronese, Vinci and others,
that the Emperor of Austria has been very easy to acquire thanks to
his domination in Milan and Venice.

  
  
  The Spanish school is worthily represented in the museum Vienna by
Velasquez, Murillo, Zurbaran and Gano, each which has bold canvases
there amazing inspiration.

  
  

  Van Dyck, Rubens, Rembrandt and other artists of great merit
  enrich the collection of tables that has gathered there.

There
  are six theaters that has Vienna in the city and the suburbs:
  the main near the square Flour, and where people sing Italian
  opera, not worth much, both because of the poor as its artistic
  significance defective construction noise. In the months April,
  May and June, Italian opera season was heard in the theater Vienna
good singers.

  
  
  Life in the capital of Austria has something of the life
  of a province, it would seem that everything is there regulated,
  and at the hour fixed beforehand and marked all distractions
  must end. The shows begin very soon, at ten o'clock night all
  theaters and cafes are closed, and each citizen retires to his
  house, the same, exactly the same in a provincial town, which is
certainly not very nice.

  
  
  The best ride is the call the Vienna Prater, site very pleasant,
  planted with trees and embellished with vicinity of the Danube.
  The Prater is a reunion point very entertaining and popular, there
are also various public gardens pretty good.

  
  
  The theater in Vienna, as in all of Germany, is fed Translation:
  after Lessing, Schiller and Goethe, made extraordinary efforts
  to emancipate his country from paying tribute to foreign scenes,
  no one has up from his prostration: dramatic literature, properly
  that does not exist in Germany. Apart from Austrian censorship
  short flight to the imagination, lack a center in Germany where
  there is so indispensably needs a theater there: authors, audience
  and actors. In Germany, thanks to its infinite divisions into
  small kingdoms and duchies, all is dispersed, as the national spirit,
that scarcely exists