 It was the shotgun's gaznápiro: a escopetón
older and patched the jokes, he had made one of hers. Pito not tired to tell anyone or taking
the slightest precaution when a part is put throw, ie, as he peered, both in the air than for
Matos, who through the mountains is over, because for a weapon the size of yours and the stuck
shrapnel that had not far and fences: it threw in the face, and above of my shoulder or between
the legs of Chisco, as requested by the situation of things and people, without getting tired
of saying 'there goes that', "puuunnn!" It was like the end of world: the mountains tremble,
and the piece was not only dead, but in tatters, because He did not lose once, or a single grain
piece of shrapnel escopetón.

And the piece was a hare, a fox, a bobcat, a "Aeschylus" (squirrel), a pheasant or a vermin of
regular size, it is very noticeable that in this and other similar strains are animals he encounters
one going for a walk, even for sites nearest to the people clothing as elsewhere in the world,
is not it, with the domestic cat, loving dog or poultry.

Chisco behaved very differently than his comrade: everything was unchanged in most at least that
its placidity of the continent. If I put a piece shot with a hand me stopped smoothly, with
the other pointed to me, and with an expressive gesture or half word I implied that was down
to me. If I wandered the coup, as was almost always, he'd he amended, if not anticipated the
shotgun from where less could Chorcos wait, and I noticed in the first case, some malicious pleasure
in the look me directed, while kicking the victim on the floor or down from the sky tumbling
as if to say: "Nah, you how not val Vey a pitu that shotgun, to be as nice as it is?" But Chisco
are greatly mistaken, because the weapon was excellent, and very decent ammunition it. What
failed was the hunter, that being so clever as I was in the shooting White did not know where they
walked when they had to throw on the run or the flight. The case is that this stupidity came
to spite me, and contributed much to it, rather than looks Chisco syrupy, the brutal laughter
that solemnized Chorcos each amendment was their grungy espingardón the failures of my gun.
And so I arrived in mortification, having put my five senses in this business, I got soon, if
not the skill of my companions, to behave in a way, other than "amendable" by none I missed shots.
This cessation of smiles and laughter of a another, and I felt I downloaded the mind of a great
weight, because that weaknesses are strung together of life, and has never been told the truth
as the pompous Don Hermogenes: "There is little or much at all. "

Twice accompanied us on these expeditions, exploration and mixed game, the priest Don Sabas,
but no weapon that pinto club that served as a cane.

Was it something like gunpowder decline in spending in those bursts of pure pleasure, and
called them "creatures of God" those who were in the magnitude scale, from wild boar and deer
down. But how knew the full scale complete and true, and those mountains and other such, and
how respect he heard the two men, as hunters, both are growing at my side, and how happy I listened
and I watched him this way ... and many others, for those without eyes or the rough ears of
Chisco witted and his comrade!

Because it's true that this word hombrazo so dull and so poor in resources
in the party My uncle, a bit more pleasant and loose officiating in
the church where he spoke from the altar more fairly to the case and
the extent of understanding of his rustic parishioners, in the heights
of the mountain did not seem to himself.

It was under him, to be much, the interest to know in a few colorful phrases and the news I asked,
not to satisfy I supplied the Chisco and his partner, about the great beasts in their hideouts
in those mountains and how to catch them, trouble sets in which they had seen him and As this was
related to near and far, their descriptions of journeys made by this or that port during an unbridled
"cellerisca" their risk of death among these snowdrifts, sometimes at fault and clinging to
life itself, and most of them for love that of others: the rest was, for me, the way they "fall"
on the mountain, like a statue master in its own right pedestal; that their way of enjoying
the nature that surrounded, swelling it by smell, by sight and even every pore his body, so after
this surfeit, was reading me aloud as he passed his eyes through the pages of this immense
book so close and in Greek to me, the ease that was within the rough simplicity of their language,
the right word, the picturesque touch, note exact box needed to be well observed and well meaning,
the role played in this work of true artist, his painting club, stressing in air and the end
of the arm extended, the force of words, the folding of the humble cassock, gently moved by
the continuous air blowing from the heights, the head erect, eyes sparkling, his hat down
over his neck, correctness and elegance, in short, all lines of this living sculpture ... Oh!
diéranle the poor priest in plain land in the open valley, in the city, a miter, the papal tiara
in the capital the Christian world, and would give them death: breathing at will, to live at
ease, to know God, to feel in all its immensity, to worship and Don Sabas serve as served and
worshiped him, he needed the continued spectacle of those grand altar of that wilderness, rugged
and lonely, with their peaks vanished so often in the clouds that blended with the sky.

None of this, how beautiful it was and so was the view, read or estimate the two monsoon how
deep respect for Don Sabas had only become a priest of the parish and man of unquestionable
competence as soon as they reached them.

My temper, in the scale of the sensible, not even reached the level of the innumerable as for "feel
natural" need to see reproduced on canvas and embellished by fantasy the painter and resources of the
palette, and yet, I read something I had never read in nature every
time I looked in the light of the impressions of Don Sabas perched
on the tops of the mountains.

And it was much appreciated and even admired for me this miracle cure Tablanca poor; miracle that
had never been to me no pictures, no books or speeches.

On the last occasion for those coming home the two, I surrendered, and hastily, and it so fresh
and so lively as if it had not left the place, told me he had seen everything me until then it was
like to see nothing and had to do something that I had promised.

- What you want when you want - I answered trembling, for its commitment to acquiring with
the man for whom gambling excursions were a thing to me out of joint.

- Well, my account is the case - he replied - and there is no more to say.

VIII

My visits to the village thorough examination alone and I made my
own, leaving appear in it as the careless, to surprise the best in
their intimacy.

Knowing "Sight" to your neighborhood at Mass the previous Sunday,
I had noticed very strongly monotonous uniformity "cut", so to speak,
and even clothing.

All the boys used the 'lastic' red and green all the old, and all
women had the "blanket" or similar color shawl and similarly crossed
over his chest and kidneys; everywhere and all kinds abounded blond
and the curved line, not without grace, with a tendency the square
to the shoulders, everyone walked, talked and moved with the same
calm, and in all faces, old and young, you could see the same expression
of goodness in some tinge of fright, as if the continuing vision of
the great masses in whose shadow they live those people, the had frightened
and suspense.

I did not have one iota to rectify these impressions, received at a glance that the whole neighborhood,
when I tried studied in further detail on the contrary, resultóme that the monotony of their
way and clothing to be well confirmed by, had to add another monotony less salient by the way:
that of their rooms. All Tablanca houses, with very rare exceptions, I found the same plane built
by: the ground floor, for livestock stables sheep and goats, on the floor, family room and the
kitchen ceiling without the roof, and above the loft, bounded by a vertical board on the edge corresponding
to kitchen, forming with the three remaining walls what might be called "smoke box." Outdoor
accessory to a block and a cattle barn, and stuck to her or the house, an orchard very small.

Just as in the kitchen of my uncle spoke all over the place for young and old, old and young. As a
characteristic of that language, such as jacks and Hs oes as esu end gratia "jermosu" and "jormigueru"
with beautiful mound. But as so melodic and rhythmic cadence is giving the sentence, which
are not the rough a word is unpleasant to the ear: on the contrary, and have expressions and idioms
of taste so signally classic, that this and the rhythmic chant that accompany them, listening a
conversation between those mountaineers, came to my mind the "music" of our old romances.

It is also very noteworthy that none of these peculiarities in the way of being and expression, undergoes
alteration visible by changing places or customs. It's very common there to migrate during the
summer the men servants to the provinces as distant as those of Aragon to hold the office of sawing
wood, or those of Castile, or work implements chestnuts, to exchange for wheat or cash. I spoke
with these men, newcomers the valley after many months away from
him, and did not find the slightest difference that distinguished
in dress or speech, or how to conduct themselves at all, its other
neighbors; nor have I found after looking for her to try, very noticeable
signs that interest them outside their homes, rather than the issue
that brings them, as if they only had eyes heart to see and feel the
native homeland.

The race is as healthy and beautiful I have ever known in Spain, and I think they are a prominent
part it continued fitness of the mountain, the abundance of milk and the integrity of customs
public and domestic. I learned with astonishment that there was no place in a tavern, and that
Property of the City, who sold the recipe and came to almost every consumer I drink at home,
from where it was, by force of habit, which was very poorly regarded the man who showed instincts'
bartenders, "and much worse that was carried away from them, albeit
rarely.

Not so stunned me the news that there was scarce a lot of money, to be a common lineage shortage
everywhere, but I thought it was of note that of which, however, were common fruits of the
earth, as among primitive peoples; and so it is important that services are paid with a half
dozen or panicles a miller chestnut. What is not in that valley are potatoes, but instead, abundant
harvest of promise in the valley of my paternal grandmother and upstream Nansa, where there is no
maize, which is the main crop Tablanca, so these two valleys, separated by four hours away at a good
walk, are in frequent treatment to change those important fruits of the earth.

Almost all men are Abarquero Tablanca, some of which, while being farmers, industries that make
a trade.

They camp in the summer, in the bush in teams of eight to ten, cut wood, prepared in the rough sandals
pairs, and so them down to the village, where, after it cured, they concluded just a little. In this
task I found some of them occupied, and seeing me enthralled narrow adze handle overalls and
long shear, or removed by curette curly chips from deep and intricate the Almadreña, or "painting",
the tune and, at knifepoint on artificial patina dried colostrum fire. Others are more carpenters,
and also collects and prepared in the bush timber stands and "canes" (poles) of horses, or farm
implements which are then refined and topped down.

Another peculiarity of those people buried among the highest mountains of the Andes: called "the
Mountain" to the flat land in the valleys of the coast, and "mountain" to its inhabitants.

One of the first people I got "the talk" on that occasion, was a man that was very original.
I found him picking edges of the floor and closing the gap with them a 'morio' which had collapsed
there. He worked with great deliberation, and was pushing a lot, without removing the pipe from
his mouth, every effort he made, because it was old.

He greeted me very smiling at me beside him, and I even called my name, "Don Marcelo."

Enough my quality of "sir" and a stranger to earn those honors a person of Tablanca, where are
all the same courtesy, but I was also nephew of Don Celso, son "of the late Don Juan Antonio"
blood Bejos Ruiz, of the noble substance of Tablanca, the "house" "...», going up there, the Pharaohs
of there, something indisputable, prestigious and respected per se and as of divine right,
but not the authoritarian manner despotic feudal traditions, but to the patriarchal and llanota
of biblical times.

No wonder, then, should not miss me, view things from this side, the
warm welcome I excused the man morio.

Was "amañandu aqueyu" because he was in face view "in Abertal." Finances were not his, 'As I could
understand, "nor the land nor any fence, but had seen a day removed the first song of the middle,
then two of the "apareaos" with him, and then "other of arrimaus to eyus "and finally, he had said,"
to the first celleriscas to come, or the first response to jocique up a little lick pa verdinis
Estus is the moriu esborrega around here.

"