 The Director of cigars, D. Francisco de Paula Sanz, sugeto adorned with the best circumstances
and qualities, was in town by chance, and as a result of the commission I was under his charge
for the establishment of this branch moved from its spirit bizarre and tired of the contemplations
that were used with the rebels wanted to attack them with their dependent and some neighbors who loved
him, and leaving the city with this attempt, day 16 February, 1781 arrived at the foot of
the hills of the Punilla, they were housed Indians, who fell immediately to try to present
the fight, believing that the small number who opposed them, assured of his party maturity. Bore
so much violence and many that little piece, which consisted of 40 men alone, not enough value
for the resistance, and yielding to the increased number and force, was necessary to think
the withdrawal, which had all perished by the disorder are that the egecutaron, unless it have come
to hold the company of grenadiers militants, unable to prevent lost life in the fray D. Francisco
Revilla, and two riot police who accompanied him in his unfortunate Luckily, it came after Flores
although the largest number of people served little diligence, for entering the night.

The gentle and natural genius please the Director Sanz, accompanied
by his generosity, made him esteemed of all, less than Flores, who
had had some trouble for the different thinking.

Sanz, everything was fire to punish the insolence of the rebels, and Flores, phlegm all circumspection
and contemplate, whose conduct, mormurada usually caused lampoons denigrating his honor, called
a coward, daring to say, he was affectionately part of the rebellion, and reached both the boldness
of the public who expressed their feelings and rude satirical verses with meanings, sent home
the same night of the attack of 16, a portion of chicken, not knowing who had been the author
of this untimely gift. The next day the neighbors were submitted in writing, stating they were
ready and willing to go after the enemy. Cried all anticipated his last wreck, cried openly, that
failure led them to attack, would come out without the Commander, and as required of so effective
as repeated suggestions that increased with the unfortunate event of the Director, determined for
20 of the February attack the Indians Punilla. Would be at 12 that day, when our troops launched,
and arriving at the field was presented to Commanding a pretty sight, which he announced the
victory, and it was recognized that a growing number of wives, mixed and confused among the troops,
he wished to go forward in function: this rare phenomenon, as flattered the taste, drew tears
from that chief, who egercitó all ability to deter dangerous falls short of effort, with which
only had already achieved immortal glory, and though they eased the burning, could never achieve
withdraw, and remained in the battlefield, or to inspire their presence encouragement to the soldiers,
or to serve any hardship relief.

Two in the afternoon when touched to attack the enemy, who was stationed in the heights of three
rough and craggy mountains, which lead to dangerous to climb: but this difficulty pawned the
value of our people, who were so eager to come to blows, and pursued
with heroic courage, the Indians soon suffered the assault, winning
gracefully the tops of those steep hills, taking with the edges of
the sword to all that did not withdraw his escape leaving the battlefield
400 bodies, with little or no loss on our part, and its free result
of the blockade the city in such a short space of time, he could say
with Major General Julius Caesar - Veni, vidi, vinci.

Solemnized this festive cheers of victory live the King, and illuminating the city for three
nights surrendered to the All-Mighty due thanks, demonstrating the joy with all those attesting
signs with love, sincerity of affection. This destruction of the enemy brought several favorable
consequences, and would have been greater if he had advance action: scared because Chayanta province,
deposed any concerns, and to check their repentance, delivered to the chief perpetrators were
Damaso and Nicolas Catari, Santos Hachu, Simon Castillo and several others who all died in three
styles: that this mockery of Divine Providence hopes of offenders, providing fall into the hands
of justice, when creating but exempt from its rigor.

This fact shows how convenient it was to win the moment, and work with activity against insurgents,
taking the consternation in which they were by the happy event the Punilla, rather than lay down
their espunto: for suspicion and distrust of the Commander, and more political than military,
made him see a slow detrimental to the cause public. And faltered in a sea of ??doubt, spent the time
doing prejudices, with which conceal their management, which could have changed with repeated
tests of loyalty and bravery he had given the residents of La Plata, who just have complained
about the concept earned him, because he felt they were unable to sustain offensive operations
in the field open without the help of veterans who were expected:
it should not be tempted this circumstance, because something has
to venture into extremes cases in which no-show another resource.

These arrests led to not a few evils, particularly in the provinces chicha and Lipes, who
rose up after that event, because they met the superiority they had, and they manifested such
behavior, and were not very formidable Commander and weapons that were in the city of La Plata,
where winning even after they were satisfied to return to closed in terms of its premises, without
thinking about the remedy of the disasters Agen: to contribute also to have followed the same
system, the imperial town of Potosí, who believed so filled with duty to shield their precious mines.

When
I was to be held at the home of Commander, D. Ignacio Flores, with a banquet, great success
of the action of Punilla, received the sad news of the horrifying fact occurred in the town
of Oruro, which is dismayed by the spirits of all the guests, and filled with bitterness,
despite becoming the pleasure that had prevented. And as one of the most notable occurrences
of this general uprising, it can be unpleasant relates to extension, and all the circumstances
requiring an event of this nature.

The origin, therefore, and the causes of this tragedy funestísima were been reported in that villa
fatalities occurred in the provinces of Chayanta and Ink, with an edict issued José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru,
in which expressive of all its cruel and ambitious intentions: what, arrived at news of the mayor,
D. Ramon de Urrutia, along with causing extragear in the provinces
of Lampa and Carabaya, determined to prevent him for any event.

Companies formed the cholos and neighbors, to discipline in the handling of weapons, allocating
different sites for teaching, which he visited twice weekly, and learned like the doctrine of their
masters: some certainly did not approve such a measure, or because were addicted to the main
rebel Tupac Amaru, whose coming were eager, or more likely, because they were his confidants.
They were attending only those that act to emulate they taught, they were Europeans, and to
form various criticisms about its operations, the while fixed insolently
opposed to the crown placards, denouncing the government the mayor
and other judges.

Among them one day dawned December 25, 1780, in announcing the murder, that after egecutaron with
Europeans, and conduct Zaheri D. Fernando Gurruchaga, ordinary Mayor, who had that year with denigrating
insults his person, and justice. It also prevented individuals from the Cabildo, refrain European
Mayors choice, because if this was happening, would not last eight days, it would rise and would
be a victim of his anger, being thieves, and that to avoid such a disastrous event, had to name just
Mayors Don Juan de Dios and Don Jacinto Rodriguez.

The Corregidor, careful with these public threats and insolent pretensions: he acted vigilante
pesquiza in the investigation and the authors, but more accurate measures and judicial as practiced
extrajudicial, could never know the truth to punish offenders, In order to keep everyone quiet
and good harmony, from always tended income to his district.

Come election day, by the year 1781, proposed to appoint the members sugetos meritorious and
honest, of good character and who love justice, so that they could charges play correctly, with
the maturity and trial prescribed by law, and required the critical circumstances in which the
kingdom was. To this end they proposed to D. José Miguel Llano and Valdez, Patricia, D. Joaquin Rubis
de Celis, and D. Manuel de Mugrusa, Europeans, with a view of the rod to come out of the house of
Rodriguez, who pretended it hereditary, and that neither they nor any of its partial and domestic,
were chosen because they made Sugetos 18 years that these were possessed
of those jobs, never allowing others were appointed by the unbridled
ambition of government that ruled them, and also for avoid injustice
and violence estorsiones, titled egecutaban judges in all class of
people, valid from unlimited despotism which had acquired, which protected
all sorts of vices, which vitiated their dependents and servants.

Rodriguez this transcended by the idea, prevented some changes and differences to the election day,
however prevailed in favor of justice, and left elected those proposed by the Mayor, who loathed
cruelly Rodriguez, the dissimilarity customs and birth and not being
able to hide the poison that locked their hearts, to see they had
taken the command, as so many years had usurped, took their mask to
be seen to clearly senses against him.

D. Jacinto was to die for with vomiting that caused the anger of the snub, and D. John left the
village for his wit haste, leaving at home warned that none of their customers come out to the
runs bulls, who regularly held to mark the new Mayors to the public, or that he These lend them
anything they desired used for soft drinks. In this day began to discover the league that
he had formed with them the priest of the parish church. It happened then that was the custom
from time immemorial, which finished the election, and confirmed by the mayor in the chapter house,
spent all of the major church council to hear the Mass of Thanksgiving, lobbyists went to the pia
demonstration, but being as to the church doors, went to meet the sacristan to say that there
was no mass, because none had given alms.

Things were in this critical state, when the news of the death of Tomas Catari; and believing
the mayor of Paria, D. Manuel Winery, which removed this seditious
disturber of the public tranquility, it would be easy sugetar the
province, collecting taxes and real distribution, determined to go
into it with weapons and people.

Asked for this to help you with Urrutia soldiers, who denied, preventing consequences could
not be good: but evil Bodega recommended, gathered 50 men, paid at his expense, and set off to
the people of Challapata but where he and his companions, paid with his life Thin determination.

With this, the Indians were persuaded Challapata, Condo, poop and other towns immediate, the
mayor of Oruro to the Paria had assisted with weapons and people to punish, from that day
threatened the town and the mayor, protesting desolate, and kill them all its inhabitants. Agregóse
to this, a Franciscan monk named Fray Bernardino Gallegos at that time was as chaplain on the
plantations of D. Juan de Dios Rodriguez, overlapping his malicious plan, said he had heard
that the Indians were ready to Challapata Oruro to invade, and that the main reason that impelled
them was to know that daily egercicio therefore considered appropriate to be suspended, for
without more care than this, sosegarian are the spirits of those rebels because of his resentment only
nacia that provision. The mayor, and was not given assent to the notices that religious, or
because they penetrate the interior, did not alter his measures, that were born smoothly continuous
and care, because, resentful of this, did not stop in front dire news spread that moments threatened
by the insult offered by the surrounding Indians.

In this conflict be doubted that the means should be chosen: there were no weapons or ammunition;
hacíanse public councils and secrets, nothing is resolved for lack of money in the box of their
own, or to put it more property, no such case, because many years ago had taken possession
of their fund D. Jacinto Rodriguez. Nor could go to the royal treasury, because he resisted
the officers, optional claiming not to be drawn amount, without order expresses the superiority;
and last resort, it was thought that the neighbors contribute with a donation, nor took effect,
the extreme poverty in which they were.

In these troubles manifested the zeal of D. Treasurer Salvador Parrilla, giving 2,000 pesos
in cash for their own interests, to that the militia were quartered, and ammunition were prevented in
the meantime was given party to the hearing, to deliberate what they had fit. With this amount
was begun preparations, they stood at 300 salary men were named captains and other officers, to
the service: D. Manuel Serrano, formed a company of the most infamous mob of people, and appointed
his lieutenant Don Nicolas de Herrera, brooding genius, that was after one of the most outstanding
in this tragic scene.

And the troops quartered, many dissensions arose due to the low subordination of soldiers,
no official law on the supply of the Prest said, and other reasons, that originated, but by the
disposition of the spirits, that the grounds grievances.

Day 9, at ten o'clock at night, some soldiers left the barracks of the company Serrano crying
out for relief to others, and asked the cause, said aloud Sebastian Payer: - "Friends, countrymen
and peers, be certain that you try the most treacherous betrayal against us by the escutcheons:
comunicárseme this news just for my daughter in any Sometimes we can best provide clear evidence
of our love of country, but in this: do not deem in all our lives, sacrifiquémoslas happy to defend
freedom, converting all humility and performance, we have had with the Spanish Europeans, anger
and wrath, and end up once with this damn race. "They immediately spread throughout the town this
reasoning, and motion in militia companies that were not neglecting D. Nicolas Herrera stoke
the fire, telling everywhere with more vivid colors, his malicious intent might suggest, the
conspiracy of the Europeans.

Paying Sebastian servant had been many years in the mines of both Rodriguez, and in that Today
went to them in the evenings with D. Jacinto, where this was coming down drunk, badly that
commonly suffered. Among other productions of drunkenness, came up with the nonsense that the
mayor wanted him hanged, together with his brothers, Don Manuel Herrera
and others neighbors.

The heat of chicha, which had altered the payer, it did facilitate the murder that after egecutaron,
treating it with D. Nicolas de Herrera, often processed sugeto a thief and robber public.
In that no one was satisfied that many Europeans were wealthy, but he and some of his wicked companions
were deposited many bars and bags of silver coin in the face of D.
José Endeiza, whom he considered more of 50.000 pesos effective.

As this individual was so kind, went to his table many friends, too wealthy, and agreed that both
were provided with travel to Potosi, came together with all his wealth to live in the house where
he was staying. The flow dam so large was the main origin of this unfortunate event. D. Nicolas
Herrera, who wanted more than all egecutar came for plunder, published in all Paying over the reasoning,
and continuing its proceedings, entered the house of D. Casimiro Delgado, who at the time was playing
with D. Manuel Amezaga, Challacollo cure, and Fray Antonio Lazo, the Order of San Agustin. They
were all thrown to the novelty, and resolved to go to warn the militia that threatened misfortune:
determination, indeed, improper sugetos those, and has many overtones of seditious, because without
thinking of consequences went to the barracks, called Captain D. Bartolomè Menacho and to others,
and gave notice of what they knew, making prevention of to beware. With this and the voice of
treason on the part of Europeans that Herrera had spread throughout
the town, came flooding troops to the barracks, mothers, wives and
sisters of those who were quartered, about wearing weapons to defend
himself and others with the most tender voices, asked with tears dejasen
the recess.

To this he added the soldiers, incited by Payer, were persuaded it was true the conspiracy: some
claimed that the mayor had prevented a mine to blow them suddenly, others shouted that they
had no doubt, because he had Arrimadas stairs suddenly rob the yard of his home. All was confusion,
disorder and confusion without any basis, for the wickedness of these and other tantalizing spices
invented seditious to shake things down. In this line spent the night in continuous shock, and
said the day after 10, abandoned the barracks: one addressed to his houses, and others gathered
by Payer, presented to D. Jacinto Rodriguez, protesting that as his Lieutenant Colonel debian communicate
what is premeditated against them, they were ready to obey blindly, thus giving a misleading
diagnostic test of the subordination he had, who, upon hearing the complaints, he told them
not to return to the barracks, and remaining with some confidence, secretly warned them rioted
that night, and they said the manner in which it had to practice.

Had left days before the town of Fray Bernardino Challapata Gallegos, the Order of St. Francisco,
under the pretext of liberating some soldiers who took D. Manuel de la Bodega, the who were
hiding in priest's house, but his real purpose was to convene the the Indians for that day. D.
In the same distributed Jacinto to its black, and some of its raised by the rooms and people
immediately, for with the help of these, bending forces and make his attempt, mounted his horse,
went to the Cerro de las Minas, where together with all Indians, mulattos and mestizos, who worked
in them and gave them orders that precisely go down by the Cerro de Conchopata to the town after nightfall.