 After Three
months turned to see, and was astonished to be very happy. Then lifted a beautiful statue of the
time with this label:

THE COMFORTER.

        

End of the two consoles.

* * * * *

HISTORY

OF VIAG

Of castigating,

WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.

In the city of Candia I came to the world the year 1600. My father was the governor, and I remember
a poet less than average, if only mildly unkempt style, called Azarria, made some bad verses in praise
of mine, where I described as a descendant quale Minos in a straight line, but then removed
the government having my father wrote further in I was the grandson of Pasiphae and her lover.
Mal sugeto this was indeed the Azarria, and most annoying villain in the entire island had.

Fifteen years had Quando my father sent me to study in Rome, and hoping I get to learn all the
truths, because until then I had been taught the opposite of truth, as is use in this world, from
China to the Alps.

Profondo Monsinor, who was recommended sugeto was rare, and one of the most terrible wise
in the world had. Quisome training in the categories of Aristotle, and almost puts me in their
Gitonas: good me free. Vi processions, exorcisms, and quite a few
robberies.

They said, though against all indeed, that the Siniora Olympia, very prudent lady, was selling
some things that are not usually sold. My age it all seemed very funny. It occurred to a maiden
lady, and very mild condition, Siniora called Fatel, fall in love with me: the reverend father
obsequiabanla Punalini and Aconiti the reverend father, a religious congregation no longer
exists, and put according to both of giving me her favors, but I was in danger of being poisoned
and excommunicated. Rome Dexe very pleased with the architecture of San Pedro.

Trip to France, where the seasoning Luis Reyna to the right, and the first thing I asked was for
my lunch if I wanted a piece of Marshal d'Ancre, who had roast people, and they sold it very cheap
to those who wanted to buy their meat to give away.

Was this a continuous state of civil war drama, sometimes for a place in the council, and other
two pages of theological disputes. More than sixty years to which they were these beautiful weather
stricken by this volcano which sometimes dimmed, and other was burning with violence, and that was
the liberties of the Gallican church.

Alas! dixe, this town is of natural quiet:? who has brought so of its kind? Chufletas says and
does degueello San Bartolome. iVenturoso time that you do not make more to say Donayre!

Go to England, where the same strife occasioned the same horrors. Some saints Catholics, for
the sake of the church, had given the king to fly with gunpowder, family real, and the entire
parliament, and rid England of both heretic. Taught me the site where had made to burn more
than five hundred of his subjects the blessed queen Maria, daughter Henrique eighth, and I assure
Hiberno cleric was much merit action towards God first because the burned were all English, and
secondly because I never took holy water, and believed in the cave of San Patricio, astounded
that they had not yet canonized to the Queen Mary, though he hoped that it would take to put
on the altars, so I had a little place Cardinal Nepos.

We went to Holland, where he hoped to find more peace, and a more phlegmatic people. Quando arrives
The Hague, were cutting the head off a venerable old man, and was the first bald head Barnevelt
minister. Moved with compassion, wonder what his crime was, and if he had been traitor the
state. Much worse than that, I answered a preacher of black cloak that is man believes it can attain
salvation by good works as well as by faith and well see if be credited such opinions, the republic
could not survive, so it is necessary stringent laws to curb such horrific scandals. Then sighing
a politician díxome deep: IHA, sir! This good weather will not last forever, this town is being
so jealous by mere chance: his true character is inclined to abominable
dogma of tolerance, and day will embrace, something that thrills me.

I however, until they reached the fatal time of forbearance and moderation, all haste dexe a
country where no happy tempered their severity, and I embarked for Spain.

Was the court in Seville, had reached the galleons, and the most beautiful season of the year
all breathed abundance and joy. After a street in orange and lemon trees, I saw an arena huge
covered terraces surrounded by beautiful texidos. Baxo a magnificent canopy were the king, queen,
infants and the princesses. In front of the August family still had a throne higher. Dixe, return
to one of my co-journey: As this seat is not reserved for God, for
those who can not be.

Heard a Spanish major these reckless words and I left side. I figured we were going to see
a tournament or a bullfight, when I went up the Grand Inquisitor to the throne, and from the blessed
the king and the people.

Then came an army of friars in rows of two by two, white, black, brown, shoes, barefoot, bearded,
beardless, with pointed hood, and no chapel was then the executioner; and behind, in the midst
of sheriffs and dukes, about forty people covered with sacks where had painted flames and devils.
Were these, or Jews who had insisted on not deny Moses, or Christians who had married with their Wives,
or had not been devoted Nuestra Senora de Atocha, or had not wanted to give money to the Capuchin
Fathers. Cantaronse a most devout prayers, and then were burned alive over a slow fire, all prisoners,
with qual it built the family remained very real.

That night, when I was going to get into bed, came two relatives of the Inquisition accompanied
by a round well-armed; dieronme a loving hug, and took me, without speaking word, a very cool
dungeon where he had a mat to lie down, and a superb crucifix. Here I was six weeks past the quale
sent me to ask please sir Inquisitor saw me with him. Estrechome in his arms with paternal
affection, and told me that I felt very sincerely that was so ill housed, but they were busy
all the quartos of that holy house, and hoped to give me more room again. Ask me later with no
less love, if he knew it was there.

Replied the holy man, no doubt for my sins. That is, my son:? But that sin? Speak without rezelo.
For more than kill me, could not manage, until the charity of the pious inquisitor gave me some
light. I remembered the end of my reckless words, and I was not convicted of more than Exercises,
discipline, and thirty thousand pieces of fine. They carried on to thank the Grand Inquisitor, sugeto
very friendly, I wonder what I had thought that her party.

Deliciosisima Rospondile was, and I went for my haste saliesemos companions to the country,
since it is so enjoyable. These had taken place to informed of all the great deeds delivered
again by the Spaniards for the sake of religion, and read the memories of the famous bishop
of Chiapas, where it has beheaded, burned or drowned idolatrous ten million Americans to convert
them to our holy faith. Well I think it weighs something the bishop, but rebaxe although half
of the victims, is still proved a prodigious zeal.

Atormentabame burning constantly traveling, and was determined to end my pilgrimage to Europe
for Turkey. Encamineme to this, with a firm purpose of not saying my mind again about the parties
he had seen. These Turks, dixe my companions, they're pagans have not received the holy baptism,
and certainly should be more cruel than the holy inquisitors callemonos then, while living among
Moros.

This would encourage, but was astonished to see many more temples in Turkey Christians on the island
where he was born, and even grown congregations friars, who dexaban in peace to pray to the Virgin
Mary, and Muhammad curse, some in Greek, some in Latin, and other in Armenian. iQue honest
people are the Turks! I exclaimed. The Greek and Latin Christians irreconcilable enemies in Constantinople,
and these slaves are chasing each other like dogs that bite in the street, and that separate suits their
masters. Then the grand vizier protected the Greeks: the Greek Patriarch, who had accused me
of dinner with the Latin patriarch, and was convicted of the divan a hundred sticks on the
soles of the feet, to rescue price five hundred sequins.

Hanged the next day the Grand Vizier, and the third his successor, which was not hung up there
a month, I condemn the same fine for having dinner with the patriarch Greek so that I saw in
the sad precision frequeentar not the Greek church or America. For comfort rented a beautiful
Circassian, who was the most affectionate person alone with a man, and the most devout at the
mosque. One night, the soft taste of love exclaimed giving me a hug: Allah, Ilah, Allah, are
the sacramental words of the Turks; I thought you were the love,
And I said with much love: Allah, Ilah, Allah.

Ha, he said the delay, Merciful God be praised, and you are Turkish. I replied that he thanked
the Lord that had given me strength to be, and I thought it was very happy. Morning came to get
circumcised the magnet, and I have difficulty putting, I proposed the cadi of the neighborhood,
a man of good composition, I would send impaled. Free at last my foreskin and my back for a
thousand sequins, and I escape running Persia, resolved not to hear Mass in Turkey Greek or Latin,
and if ever Allah, Ilah, Allah in the moments from the likes of love.

So get to Ispahan, I asked if it was the party of black sheep or ram white. Replied that the same
one that gave me another, which makes it tender. It must be noted that Persia was still divided
into two factions, the ram's black and white. I believe that by mocking both parties, and
I found myself in a terrible commitment to gate of the city, of whom I left paying a lot of sequins,
not having to do with sheep.

Do not stop to China, which comes with an interpreter, he said that I was the country where
could live happy and free: the Tatars had invaded it they placed all blood and fire, while the reverend
Jesuit Fathers on the one hand, and the reverend fathers Dominicans second, they said winning souls
for heaven, without anybody noticing. Have never been more zealous converters, are chasing
each other with the most fervent ardor, wrote Rome whole volumes of libel, and tried by a faithless
infidels and soul.

There was an awful row between them about how to do the courtesy, the Jesuits The Chinese wanted
to greet their parents to the fashion of China, and Dominicans it was the fashion of Rome. Sucediome
the Jesuits thought I was a Dominican, and they told him that His Majesty was Tartara spy of the Pope.
Commission gave the supreme council a first mandarin to arrest me, the qual command a sheriff,
who had at his command four brackets, which seized me, and I bound with all ceremony. Conduxeronme,
after hundred and forty prostrations, before His Majesty, I wonder if I was a spy of the Pope
and if it was true that the prince had to come in person to dethrone him. I replied that Pope
was a clergyman of more than seventy years, that his statements were far more than four thousand
miles those of his Sacred Majesty Tartaro-China, that his army was two thousand soldiers standing
guard with a para-waters not anyone dethroned, and I could sleep without His Majesty fear.
This was the least fatal adventure of my life, as did more than send me to Macao, where I embarked
for Europe.

It was necessary to caulk the ship off the coast of Golconda, and I take advantage of the opportunity
to see the court of the Aurengzeb, of whom there were then a thousand wonders. It was this monarch
in Delhi, and enjoy the taste imponderable façade to façade behold the day of the pompous ceremony
that received the heavenly gift that he sent the sheriff of Mecca, and was the broom which had swept
the holy house, the Kaaba, the Belho-Allah: broom is a symbol that alimpia all the filth of the soul.
It appears that did not need Aurengzeb, who was the male more Hindustan religious whole, since it
had beheaded one of his brothers, and given poison his father, and had destroyed a scaffold twenty Omra
rajas and many others, but That did not mean anything, and nobody talked about anything but
his devotion to whom is the of no other comparable, as it was not that of the sacred majesty
of the Most Serene Emperor Morocco, Mulcy Ishmael, qual a quantas
heads cut every Friday, after to prayer.

No article I word that I had chastened the voyages, and knew it was not competent judge to
adjudicate between these two August sovereign. I confess, however, that a French boy, who
locked, lacking the respect due to the emperors of India and Marruceos, saying with great imprudence
in Europe had very principles governing sovereign rightly his states, and also frequeentaban
churches, without taking life so their parents and siblings or cut the head of his vassals.
Our language interpreter realized expressions india impias of this boy. I trained with him on
other occasions I had happened, send saddle camels, and went with the French. Later I learned that
night had come and fetch him great Aurengzeb officials, and not having found more than the interpreter,
was this executed in the main square, without flattery confessed
all that was very fair palace his death.

Quedabame to see the Africa to enjoy all the delights of our hemisphere, and saw effect. Black
corsairs seized my vessel. My boss complaining bitterly, and ask
them for violating the laws of nations.

He was answered by Captain black: Your nose is long, and our flat,
your hair is smooth, and our wool curl, your skin is ashen-gray color
and our Ebony, therefore under the sacrosanct laws of nature, we must
always be enemies.

       At fairs You give us of Guinea, as if we were pack animals, to force
us to work in not that such tough tasks as ridiculous, to vergajazos
haceis we pierce the mountains to get a kind of yellow powder that
nothing is good, and that's no good, or very, a chive Egypt.

Quando So you find us, and we can only, I force them to labreis our
land, and if not you cut the noses and ears.

       

There was replicated as discrete reasoning.

I went to the tilth of a black woman by keep my ears and my nose,
and after a year I rescued.

Having seen all quanto good, beautiful and admirable in the earth, I determined to see no more
than my household gods: I married in my country, I was a cuckold, and saw it was the most pleasant condition
of human life.

End of the voyages of castigating.

* * * * *

MICROMEGAS,

Philosophical history.

* * * * *

CHAPTER ONE.

Journey of a denizen of the world of the star Sirius to the planet Saturn.

There was one of the planets revolving around the star called Sirius, a boy much talent, whom
I had the honor of meeting in the last journey he made to our paltry nest. Micromegas was his
name, a name that falls perfectly to all large, and had eight leagues high, I mean twenty-four thousand
five steps geometric calipers.

Some algebraist, caste people are very useful to the public, to take this step in my story pen,
and calculated that taking the Lord Don Micromegas, Sirius country dweller, from soles to occiput
twenty-four thousand feet, making one hundred and twenty thousand feet King, and we citizens
of the land going through the community of five feet, and taking our globe nine thousand miles
in circumference, it is absolutely essential that the planet where our national hero has fully twenty-one
million six hundred thousand times circumference of our earth. Well, nothing is more common
and more natural, and states certain princelings of Germany or Italy, which may beating in half
an hour, compared with Turkey, Russia, or Spanish America, is an image, still very distant from Indeed,
the differences that nature has established among men.

It is the height of His Excellency that we said, where all our painters colegiran and sculptors,
whose body might be about fifty thousand feet in circumference king because is very well proportioned.
His understanding of the most insightful is that you can see he knows a multitude of things,
and some have invented: only bordered with the two hundred and fifty years, while a student
at the Jesuit college of your planet, as there style is common, I guess by the force of his intelligence
over fifty propositions of Euclid, which are eighteen but did Blaise Pascal, the qual having guessed,
according to her sister, thirty and two playing, became, walking the years, fed medium geometry,
and malisimo metaphysical. Age of four hundred and fifty years, but not to get out of childhood, dissects
a very small insects that did not reach a hundred feet in diameter, and the microscopes were hiding
regular, and wrote a book about them very funny, but that he brought not a few surprises.
The mufti of his country, not less ticklish than ignorant, found in his book proposals suspicious,
ill-sounding, rash, heretical, or smelling of heresy, and he chased the death, then tried to
see if the substantial form of fleas from Sirius was of the same nature that of the snails. Micromegas
Defendiose salty, declared the women in their favor, because after
two hundred and twenty years which had lasted the lawsuit, did Mufti
condemn the book for qualifiers that he had not read nor could read,
and was banished court time the author for eight years.

Not much afflicted him out of a court full of intrigue and gossip. He composed a few tenths very
funny against the mufti, that this does not give a damn, and devoted himself to travel planet to planet,
only to perfect his reason and his heart, as they say. Those who are used to walking in car cufflinks,
or chaise was amazed at the carriages up there, because we, in our ball of mud, do not understand
other styles than ours. Fully knew the laws of gravitation and the forces attractive and repulsive
our walker, and he used them so well that now mounted in a sunbeam, now riding a kite, balloon balloon
went he and his servants, as well as a paxarillo flits from branch to branch. Soon there run
the Milky Way; and I regret to confess that never could descry, among the stars that is planted,
that beautiful sky empyrean, who with his spyglass discovered the illustrious Derham, curate
[Footnote: English Wise, author of Theology astronomical, and other works, who strives to prove
the existence of God by the contemplation of the wonders of nature.].

I do not say why that has not been very well Mr Derham, God forbid
size of committing mistake, but after Micromegas was in the country,
and was a good observer: I do not want to contradict anyone.

After many journeys came a day Micromegas the globe of Saturn, and although he was used to
see new things, yet we stop confusing the smallness of this planet and its inhabitants, and could
not release the smile of superiority that can not contain more sane sometimes. Truth is that
Saturn is nine hundred times larger than the earth, and the inhabitants the country are dwarfs
of about two thousand yards, with a short difference in height. Riose to top of them with their
servants, as does an Italian musician Lulli's music, when it comes to France, but Sirius was
the man of reason, and quickly recognized that one could very well be that thought to have
nothing of ridiculous, since there from six thousand feet height. Acostumbrose to Saturninus,
after having been shocked, and became a close friend of the secretary of the Academy of Saturn,
a man of great talent, which in truth nothing was invented, but very nicely gave account of
the inventions of others, and to regularly couplets girls and big load. I'll post here, to the
satisfaction of my readers, a conversation very surprised that the secretary had one day Mr.
Micromegas.

CHAPTER II.

Sirius Talk to the inhabitants of Saturn.

HE went to bed, went up to his face to the secretary, and said Micromegas: We confess that is very
diverse nature. Truth is, he said the Saturnino; is nature as a garden, whose flowers ....
Ha, he said the other, DEXA gardening. As it is, followed the Secretary, as a reunion of blonde
and brunette, whose adornments ..... What do I care about your brunette? interrupted the other.
Or as a gallery of squares, whose images ...... No, Sir, no, replied the traveler, nature is
as nature. ? A what the hell you walk looking for those comparisons? For to rejoice, 'said
the secretary. If I do not want to recreate me, what I want you to teach, "said the traveler. Tell
me what senses are first quantos men of your globe. Nothing more than seventy-two, he said the
academic and everyday We complain about such a shortage, that our
imagination is dexa back our needs, and we believe that with our seventy-two
senses, our annulled, and our five moons do not have enough, and it
is true that despite our great curiosity and passion that of our seventy-two
senses are daughters, we have plenty of time to get bored. Well what
I think, he said Micromegas, because on our globe we have about a
thousand ways, and we still are not that vague desires, not that concern,
which constantly tells us that we are girl thing, and that other beings
much more perfect. I made a few voyages, and have seen other very
inferior to us mortals, and others who are far superior, but I have
seen no with no more desires than real needs, and more needs satisfaction.
Perhaps a day will END a country where nothing is needed, but I have
not been told of this country. Then threw themselves to form conjectures
on Saturnino and Sirius, but after many no less ingenious reasoning
uncertain, was forced to re-establish facts. ? Quanto long live? he
said the Syrian. Ha, very little, "replied the man from Saturn. The
same is true in our country, 'said the Syrian, we are always complaining
about the shortness of life. Must is that it is universal pension
of nature. Alas! our lives, 'said the Saturnino is five hundred revolutions
of the sun movie (coming to be fifteen thousand years, or near, counting
as us.) You see that it is almost die so that one is born: it is our
existence one point, a moment our lives, our globe an atom, and each
instruction is just beginning something, when death snatches before
experience