 

In one of these journeys he made friends with a priest of the Society of Jesus, was going to
India to take part in the evangelical work of his brothers. The painting that him of his institute,
and the advantages it offered to those who expressed zeal and talents, made so vivid impression
on the mind of young Quiroga, decided at once to take the habit of San Ignacio. His superiors
encouraged him to not abandon their studies, in which was well advanced, and they do not need
incentives, offered him a chair mathematics, which expressly established school in Buenos Aires.

The
services of the new teacher, helpful to his students, were in a more
transcendental for the Government, which for lack of a physician,
he was sometimes unable to important questions for public service.

Such was the course they should followed in the measurement of land in the aegis of the city, and that
have not been well identified in the concessions of the first settlers, cast doubt on its boundaries,
removing titles to their main requirement.

The governor D. Domingo Ortiz de Rosas, who in 1744 was invested with supreme command of these provinces,
entrusted this task to P. Quiroga, who was consulted since preference
in all scientific enterprises.

When the court of Spain sent to explore the accessible parts of the
Patagonian coast, and More to the point to establish populations,
pilots Varela and Ramirez, who came to board the frigate San Antonio,
they were associated Fr Quiroga, whose diary served to P. Lozano to
draft that we published the first volume of our collection.

On his return from this mission, Fr. the Company was commissioned to map the territory Mission:
- vast and difficult work, not just by the nature of the terrain,
but because of lack materials and resources.

Despite these obstacles, accepted P. Quiroga this assignment, and then have determined with accuracy
neat geographical position of the thirty towns Missions, and the cities of the Assumption, Corrientes,
Santa Fe, Colonia, Montevideo and Buenos Aires, drew his map with the data supplied him edit and
relationships unpublished for the missionaries, when it was possible to buy it personally.

This work, which has no more merit in the day as your priority, was published in Rome in 1753,
by Fernando Franceschelli intaglio, which, according to the custom
of time, added some news on the banks of the Paraguay, and grade standings
latitude and longitude, according to the author's observations.

One of the most inaccurate parts of this map is the course of the river Paraguay, and was precisely
that the P. Quiroga had the opportunity to rectify shortly after,
when in 1752 he accompanied the Spanish commissioner, D. Manuel Antonio
de Flores, in charge of putting the framework divisive Jaurú's mouth,
in compliance with Article 6 of the treaty, set in Madrid in 13 January
1750.

This recognition that only fruit of laborious negotiations, was the last service the government
for this religious scholar, and is also the most honored his memory. In this diary availed
D. Luis de la Cruz Cano Olmedilla for the formation of his large
map of America Southern, which was published in Madrid in 1775, and
reproduced by Faden in London in 1799, was adopted by Arrowsmith in
1811.

This document would have met the fate of almost all the work of the last Jesuit in these regions,
had it not been for the care of P. Sunday Muriel (or Ciriaco Morelli and struck him in his work
called), which was inserted in the appendix to his Latin version
History of Paraguay P. Charlevoix, where we have extracted.

Circumscribed to the duties of their state, P. Quiroga resigned himself to a secluded life in
the College of Belen, where he was intimidated by the decree of suppression
of his order in 1767.

Expelled from his adopted country, without being allowed to return to their own, sought an asylum
in Italy, where he ended his days, no more comfort than that provided by the religion to a
guilt-free conscience.

Buenos Aires, June 1836.

PEDRO DE ANGELIS.

* * *

DESCRIPTION OF PARAGUAY RIVER.

§. I.

Origin of the Paraguay River, and rivers that enter it, to its junction with the Parana.

The Paraguay River has its origin in a great chain of mountains, which stretches from east to west for
hundreds of miles, passing north of Cuiaba. In this range down to many streams and creeks south,
which together form a mighty fine river, which begins to be waterway
fifty or sixty leagues above the Xaurú.

And all the Paraguay river, from that mountains to the city of the Seven Streams, where concurs
with the Paraná, it is also navigable, even with large ships, but these are not the best to
overcome the current for which more apparent are the gigs of oars, launches and all kinds of
light xebecs.

From the river Xaurú above does not know that rivers of Paraguay come into consideration, but
is to believe that you enter some of the eastern part, because when it comes to Xaurú and plentiful.
The mouth of Xaurú is 16 degrees 25 minutes south latitude, and 320 degrees and 10 minutes
in length, counted from the island towards the eastern Fierro. Comes said river of the west and
is navigable by canoe for some leagues. Below are the Xaurú Paraguay divides into two branches
flowing. The more runs with narrow channel, but very deep, through Xarayes: and for this sail
our boats without pregnancy whatsoever.

The other arm is for some miles along the western side of the Xarayes. And this, before returning
to join the first, perhaps Guabis enter the river, which runs from the peoples of the Chiquitos
towards the east, unless it be that the Guabis into a bend Caracará the lagoon, which communicates
with the Paraguay river almost at the bottom of the Xarayes.

Below Xarayes enters the eastern part in the Paraguay river of Porrudos, at the height of 17
degrees and 52 minutes. This river is very plentiful, and it enters in Cuiaba, as will be elsewhere.
Another arm of this same river falls below, and give the Portuguese the name of the Chiana Canal,
and he come up with their canoes to sailing Cuyabá Paulistas.

Tacuarí river, which also brings its current eastern part comes in Paraguay by three-neck, all waterways.
The northernmost, where lowering Paulist is 19 degrees. In the same part of the East with
great power comes Mboteteí river at 19 degrees and 20 minutes. In the southern margin of Mboteteí
was formerly a Spanish population, it was called Xerez, which is
forsaken by the persecutions they were suffering from the Paulist.

It was this population to thirty leagues from the Paraguay River, at the foot of the great ridge
that extends north-south between the rivers Paraná and Paraguay. In the great floods Mboteteí down
by many tacuaras, or very thick reeds, torn from their margins, which
are many on the banks of the river Paraguay.

And it is very repairable, which in any the margin of this river, from the Mboteteí above,
is not a tacuara.

From Mboteteí, down the Paraguay River, is the strait that now call St. Xavier, including some hills,
19 degrees and 48 minutes. One of the hills is in the eastern margin the river, and four or five
are in the western side.

Another notable Paraguay narrowness is below the three hills that are to the the west, called
the Three Brothers, at the foot of another high hill, called Bread Sugar, about twelve leagues
below the Three Brothers, and is the highest of all who found from the Assumption to Tacuarí.
Is on the eastern margin, and from there continued a ridge towards the east. There in the
west, in front of Pan de Azucar, another small hill and some distance to the part of the north-west,
is another not very big. The narrow aforesaid, and the Sugar Loaf, are at 21 degrees 17 minutes.

It is then, down the Paraguay, the river mouth Tepotí at 21 degrees 45 minutes. Then in front
of an island, or something above, is the mouth of the river currents, so called by the mainstream
that it brings. This river has its origin next to the fountain of
Guatimí that Paraná enters the big jump.

The river flows into the Paraguay Currents in 22 degrees and 2 minutes. Two or three miles away
is the south-west the hill Galvan, it is only in the western side. This lower part of this a
bunch of great mountains. At the south side of the river are too many hills and narrow with
strong currents, with peñasquería the sides of the river, and called this step Itapucú-wolf.
Is at 22 degrees and 10 minutes. Below is a tip that is another narrow ridge, and ends this
rock tip cut off, and lies about eight miles from the Itapucú-wolf.

Sign in below, on the eastern margin, the Rio Guarambaré in 23 degrees 8 minutes, and in front
of the mouth is an island.

For the 23 degrees and 21 minutes are scattered stones middle of the river, so in this stage
should navigate with caution. Ipan river-wolf flows into the Paraguay, at latitude 23 degrees
28 minutes. His mouth is facing a island. Download this river of yerba mate that are north
of Curuguatí, and has its origin near the Guatimí. In the 23 degrees 51 minutes between the Paraguay,
on the western margin, the Cookers river, and a short distance below the same band enters the Verde
River. Al front of these two rivers there are four islands. Lower in the Banda Oriental enters
mini Ipan in 21 degrees and 2 minutes.

Ipan below the mini, in 24 degrees and 4 minutes, we found that looked straight needle to the
north, and can not be attributed to other causes to the proximity of some iron ore stone or
magnet, of which there is enough in the jurisdiction of Paraguay. In the 24 degrees and 7 minutes
between the Banda Oriental Xexuí the river, which comes from the
Curuguatí yerbales, and perhaps sailing ships loaded with grass, although
much work, missteps you have.

In the 24 degrees and 23 minutes between, on the east, the Cuarepotí: in 24 degrees and 29
minutes, the Ibobi. But 50 minutes down on the same level, enters the same side of the Tobatí
in an arm of Paraguay, whose entrance into the tip of the island is further south (and the
first tip when it comes up in the arm), two stones who come to the
flower water, which should be departing ships, or to take course at
the river wider, leaving the eastern part of the island.

In the Tobatí fit, before his fall in Paraguay, the river Capiatá.

In the 24 degrees 56 minutes will go to Paraguay, in the west, the river Mboicaé. In 24 and
58, little above the fort of Arecutacuá, enter through the east the Peribebuí, and more down,
in 25 gr. and a minute, go on the same side the river Salado. Deep down, almost at the same height,
enter the western margin Piraí river.

The city of Assumption is 25 gr.

17 min. 15 seconds of latitude, 320 gr. 12 min. of length, according to some markers. Others found
25, 16, latitude 320, 10 in length. Deep down is via three mouths, the West Bank, the famous
river Pilcomayo, which brings its waters cerranias Potosi, and runs through the Chaco. In the
25 gr. 32 min. Paraguay makes a narrow entrance, taking only a rifle shot from a river to another,
and is At this place the fort called La Angostura. The Tebicuari enter Paraguay by the east,
in 26 gr. 35 min. Down by the river boats of Our Lady of Santa Fe and Rosa.

The Rio Grande, or Bermejo enters the Paraguay by the West in 26 gr. 54 min., And her mouth is
far the city of Corrientes eleven leagues from the air, the river is 17, or 18. Comes Bermejo
of the mountains that are between Salta and Tarija: through much of the Chaco: the color of its
waters is something vermilion. In coming together with Paraguay, infects waters it, so that
the water is unhealthy until concurs in Corrientes Parana. They join the rivers Paraná and Paraguay
at the forefront of this city, which is located on the eastern margin, at 27 degrees and 27
minutes latitude, 319 and 55 minutes in length. Seven Flames of Corrientes city, because the
land where the city is, for seven stone points, leaving the river,
where the current is stronger Paraná.

From here loses the name Paraguay, because the Paraná, but mighty
as yours keeps up near Buenos Aires, where, along with Uruguay, flows
into the sea with the name of Rio de la Plata, so named because brought
from here some articles of silver and gold the first conquerors of
Paraguay, which had brought jewelry Indians in Paraguay first entry
made to the people of Peru with Alejo Garcia and his colleagues, according
to is written in Argentina Rui Diaz de Guzman.

* * *

§. II.

Nations of Indians living on the banks of Paraguay.

First in the same river, and its islands, inhabited by two factions of Indians Payaguá, who
walk all over him in their canoes, and kept fishing, and what to steal Spanish and Portuguese. A
bias has a room in the northernmost part of the river, and its principal chief called Quatí. The
other is usually more frequently in the southern part, in the proximity of the Assumption. The
principal chief of this is called Ipar.

On the banks of the river, starting from its junction with the Paraná,
live to the west, Abipones, of which number is reduced to people.

Others, with their friends Tuffs and Bermejo River Mocobís make incursions across the borders
of Santa Fe, Cordoba, Santiago del Estero, Salta and Jujuí, and sometimes from Paraná, make their
shots in the jurisdiction of Corrientes, and often from the river Paraguay and ambushes in the
mountains, make significant damage to the northernmost village of
the Guarani missions, and stays the jurisdiction of Paraguay.

The Indians arrive in the western part of Paraguay to the Pilcomayo.

From the Pilcomayo begins the land of the languages, which are all that part of the Chaco, the
Pilcomayo to the land of the Mbayas, and also pass Paraguay, to make their shots into the rooms
of the Assumption. These Indians are no headquarters, nor do they support missionaries.

From the river Xexuí the one and another band, live the Mbayas, divided into several installments.
Its main tolderías are the first and second band of Paraguay, the lands most immediate the
south of Pan de Azucar. These Indians are all the earth, from the Tacuarí Xexuí by the Eastern
and Western, until near the Chiquitos. From the Sugar Loaf towards the north western side living in
the manure. These are Indians who work their land to plant corn, and also make their crops to
the Mbayas, paying these your work. Above the Tacuarí there, in the river of Porrudos, similar
to other Indians way of life to the Payaguá, but of more value, and
excellent archers.

Judge is not many nations, they do not fall in their canoes to the
river Paraguay.

The Portuguese, sailing by Xarayes from Cuiaba to Mattogroso, said
that some trees there, in waterlogged Xaraya is allowed to see some
Indians, though few.

Do not know what nation they are.

Can be some relics of the Xarayes. Up here I do not know that Indians inhabit some on the banks
of the river Paraguay.

* * *

§. III.

Mountains and trees.

The Creator of all things gave us adjoining lands a nice Paraguay River object to the eye, with
admirable variety of mountains, hills, plains and forests. From Flows to the river Xexuí there by
a forest and another band with a great variety of plants. But the above is greater Xexuí charm the
eyes, because sometimes you discover a bouquet of the mountain all covered with trees, other
times it is a campaign full of grass very green, others are huge
palm trees, a particular species of palms, because Logs are soaring
and rights, hardwood and round crown, with similar branches to the
palm of making brooms in Andalucia.

Nor can find anything more apropos swiftly to form the roofs of the houses, because in removing
the glass, and cutting the trunk by the foot, there's no more to do to apply to the work. These
palm trees are common from the fields Xexuí to Xerez. And as the logs are very clean, walk the
Indians horseback through the palm, without any pregnancy. The clusters of dates of these palms
are smaller than regular palm, and dates are also smaller in proportion. I do not know if they are edible.

Generally
speaking, all the hills and mountains are in many mountain slopes
with tall trees and very thick trunk. And there is no doubt that they
would be, with so variety, precious woods. We found by chance the
tree where they get the rubber guta, or gamboge, which is a paste
of very fine yellow. The tall tree, not too thick, sheet similar to
that of the laurel. He uncovered the tree giving some cuts for entertainment
in the bark of one of this species