 Laudate Dominum omnes gentes ... Magnificentia opus ejus, manet in
aeternum.

Upon arrival we discovered the shrine and prayed aloud Don Sabas, and will answer us aloud us what we
share. The prayer was brief and the Latin half of it. Then Chisco approached the trellis, and two of
its bars put the lantern, which no longer needed, and left on the floor leaning against the
boundary wall too, to get you at the back, but not without crossing himself before placing the hand
and then removing it, or without considering the image with a reverence
that was something suspicious, as if asked, while safe for the garment
leaving deposited there, sorry for what might be of irreverent in
its audacity.

After the Vader, not take us, as I hoped, the path that leads directly to the port, but another
one like that right, and mountains and hills will, gorges and ravines are-here along the river basin,
there out of sight, and always getting on or off cliff to crag, from town to town, I saw how far the
main valley that lay Promise the site of my grandmother, and arrived,
after two hours of walking, a wide gorge between two mountains that
seemed, by his greatness, did not fit into the world.

As the most accessible to me 'then', as the opinion of Don Sabas, started skirted the left, and
that rises up, gave the order in which already scarce entrellano vegetation and insupportable
I was doing the morning breeze and freshness. There alighted Don Sabas, and ordered me to do
I do the same.

Hícelo and willingly, because I felt numb on the hard seat of my horse, besides the fact that
I conceived it safer to walk riding on that ledge, the rapid decline
of the mountain.

- What is missing, you have to upload it on foot
- the priest told me - because it is not riding trail, but men and,
at most, of goats.

With that encouragement and up!

And without waiting for my answer, began to climb with hands and feet from rocks and stumps.
How Chisco who envied me to the explanadita stayed below with the
horses!

Don Sabas had the practice of those routes, and also the passion of the heights, but I, lacked
both, what I ventured on the rise of so frightful precipices?

At last we reached the top, I by miracle of God himself, crawling crawling to those of Don Sabas,
but dead tired and sweaty.

- Rest a moment - the priest told me there - but with eyes closed, and watch open until I send!

Necessity
rather than out of obedience, I turned to exactly the mandate of
Don Sabas.

I a long time lying on the floor, face up and with both hands over his eyes, because only so
was the rest that I was absolutely indispensable then. Pounding felt in the heart that impact
on the temples, and the live sound of this pounding worked my lungs.

When the one and the others returned to their normal pace and quiet, I called and got Don Sabas
at your service. I was very close to me, perched on a rock in the usual attitude and starting
to get drunk with the eyes, and certainly not without reason.

- Arrímate a bit here - I said from his pedestal limestone with patches of moss and little else
taller than me -. Arrímate, provides ... And Marvel, Marcelo!

We had gone to the west of the mountain, which is the side where there are older than her, and the
picture that I gave the priest was seen by the other sides, ie it was something new for me and
recently appeared before my eyes. Particularly towards the east and the North, seemed to have
no limits in my view, some seasoned to estimate the magnitude shows from that, and it was so
amazing originality and strange, that did not succeed to realize full or nature or his "argument".
South is dominated by the beautiful valley of Campóo, and on another occasion seen and admired
by me in the same direction and further, brown tones of the Spanish
land, near the Port of yore with its stark monoliths and wrenching
loneliness. West and amaze all with their masses, and the Picos Peña
Sagra Europe separated by the Deva, whose profound and wonderful throat
was easily distinguished in many of its whimsical escapades among
inaccessible rocks and a fantastic and other shore, and beyond the
Deva, in the valleys low, as was said Don Sabas, with the brevity
and the way that signals the teacher with a cane in a sign the syllables
to their students, much of the province of Asturias