 What most would call us
attention was his unique touch of beautiful bows for half-covered with black hood lace, ribbons
and braids with white ribbons pinned with massive plates of gold and silver imitation fins and scales,
jewelry that is not dissimilar to that seen after the headdress the countrywomen of Holland,
especially on the side of Rotterdam. Did I tell you these details lack of interest? It is quite
possible, and the scene HOWEVER we recorded deep in the memory. There was so much candor, both
natural and poetry in this church open and filled colorful ornaments, - the cemetery, yard,
defended more by pity for the humble common than covered with garlands around, - the house-villa,
all transparent (with more windows than walls) and wrapped in a blanket of flowers and vegetables
- and this group of women single, original type, waiting for a bell to enter the church to pray!
The scene alone was a revelation full of beliefs, customs, habits, race and the virtues of the countryside
that modest population.

       * * * * *

It was five o'clock when we left the next day Lungern in a lightweight stroller, valleys bordering
on Lungern, Sachseln and Sarnen. The excursion to across the Sachseln town is really lovely.
The site (which scarcely has about 1.500 residents) is literally hidden at the foot of a magnificent
mountain, a vast and gorgeous forest fruit trees, full of perfumes and carpeted with hay and
colorful flowers. The groups of apple, pear and plum trees alternate with cherry, walnut and
other trees confusion in the funniest. Thus, the district is literally a Verjel, and its inhabitants
live among flowers, fruits and scented vaults. I doubt that judges have office there. The crime
must be unknown in the village of humble gardeners, born between flowers.

Lake Sarnen, making abstraction of the surrounding marshes, is a soft and serene. Its shores are confused
about the valley, the road passes and brushing their murmuring sleepy waves. On the opposite side are
well-cultivated plains, and two or three villages similar to that of Sachseln. The length of the
lake does not exceed 6.366 meters, to 1.916 wide and 70 deep; and
the navigation is done in little boats of simple construction.

Sarnen, which has just over 3,400 residents, is climbing partly on the side of a mountain, resting
softly on both banks of the Aa and surrounded by beautiful trees. The style of this small town
is so original and funny, and noting its simplicity of form no one would think that it is in
the capital of a sovereign Sitado. But this simplicity is understood with sympathy, knowing
that the double city of Unterwalden is not nothing but a humble and happy confederation of districts
that are all democratic republics. Unterwalden, by their smallness, not worth a relationship
stopped, as a political body; but some of its characteristic institutions
deserves to be cited as a model and to be respected by the philosophy
and good sense of its citizens.

The population of Nidwalden, race, or rather early Germanic speaking exclusively German (very flawed)
and has scarcely 24.960 individuals, distributed in 13 parishes, which correspond to 7 and
6 to Nidwalden Obwalden. Since the year of 1150 established the division State in two separate government
entities, with one capital in Sarnen and the other in Stanz. Unterwalden was one of the three
confederates who formed the League of William Tell to be a Swiss citizen, and his brave soldiers
took part in all the battles for independence. The Canton as a whole contains only natural
forests, Verjel meadows and, being almost completely void of cereal cultivation and manufacturing.
Thus, their yields are reduced to cutting of timber, crops of fruit (pears, apples, cherries, plums,
peaches, apricots and walnuts), the extraction of citron (kirchenwasser) exquisite walnut oil
and honey, and the manufacture of cheese, all of which yield relatively
large values, as well as the offspring of cattle.

Each of the parishes as a democratic, independent self-government and governed by assemblies
of all citizens, and elected officials for services permanent. Each half-canton has its own
citizens, and only have the common suffrage a hundred primitive patrician families were entitled
before the division of State. The institutions of the two half-cantons or political twins are
so similar that enough to indicate one of them to the whole idea. Each year all meet in Assembly
active citizens of the Confederation of parishes [24] in order to discuss and vote laws and budgets,
approve the accounts of the administration, appoint, if appropriate, the representatives to be
included in the legislative bodies of the Confederation Swiss, and choose the high magistrates
of the common administration of small confederation. The House has no initiative in legislation
and is reduced to approve or reject which offers the Executive. This is composed of 12 or 14 judges
called Proposed (Vorgesetzten), chaired by the Landammann (Man who rules the country), kind of President
elected annually by the Assembly or Landsgemeinde. The Proposed are immovable.

[24] More than a quarter of the inhabitants are citizens.

Obwalden has about 13.400 inhabitants and Nidwalden the rest. Citizenship is acquired at the
age of 20 years.

The most beautiful feature of these two confederations microscopic living so happily its pure democracy
is the institution on the death penalty. This can not be pronounced or ordered, by great coincidence
occurs when a capital crime, but by a grand jury composed permanent judges and all citizens
over 30 years (except the clergy) who are not relatives of the parties and may be sworn. After
the principle of sanctity of life, worth more than all, nothing is as beautiful as this recognition
the principle of social family, whereby it is allowed to take the life one of its members
without the whole community of their vote and consents. It is strange that a statelet microscopic
lost between the buttresses and lakes of the Alps, you are giving
lessons to be called civilized world about the fraternal solidarity
of men and rights of human life!

Do not forget to note that the Executive is assisted in each half-canton by a grand Council of Representatives,
and the superior court of each group is also a federal set of judges or legal representatives
of the parishes.

Thus, the federal idea is shown in all entities, from the confederation of individuals to
the districts as shown later in the association of sovereign cantons.

In Alpnach port at the foot of Mount Pilatus, we embarked on board a steam cross the lake of Four
Cantons in the direction of Lucerne.

To our right we saw Stanz, asleep in his graceful valley, and Lake unfolding before our eyes haunted
her waves reverberant, its magnificent mountains and a panorama of the most poetic and varied
forms evoked in all its sites a thousand memories of the heroic times of Switzerland.

Almost in the center of Swiss territory in the region where it ends in a way the mountainous
area and starts the undulating or very rough, there is a relatively hoya considerable, taking on the river
Reuss hydrographic center offers to the eye of the traveler the more varied and perhaps the
most beautiful panorama of this natural wonderland.

This basin, with irregular shapes and less enclosed on all sides to the north, is determined
by numerous buttresses the Alps shed on the plains in many different directions, and a whole
produces the juxtaposition of numerous valleys, very narrow and deep, spinning all over the central
valley of the Reuss river, rising in the heights of the Furka, a
short distance from the source of the Rhone, runs absolutely opposite
direction and goes from south to north, to carry its waters into the
Rhine, misdiagnosed as Aar and the Limmat.

The sinus or widening of the Reuss in the bottom of a huge basin perpendicular rocks, is what
is the lake of Four Cantons (Fri-Waldstatt-See), the most irregular and, without dispute,
the most curious is how Switzerland.

At around that lake basin and within the basin indicated are, in whole or in hand, the four
corners that give your name to the lake: the O. that of Nidwalden; to S. the of Uri, the E.
that of Schwyz, and N. that of Luzern or Lucerne, - surrounded by Berne, Glarus, Zug, Aargau,
etc.

Thus, the four corners are the most picturesque cluster of steep hills and steep (Some snow), narrow
and smiling valleys, hills and streams, forests, meadows and Verjel, which are stacked or alternated
around the lake to multiple and capricious as the thousand varied forms a vast semi-wilderness park
and around semi-artificial an enormous pool of granite murmuring
waves and blue transparent.

If the topography and the community of interests, patriotic efforts, language, religion, race and
traditions, have created a close fellowship among the four or five cantons rather above, the conformation
of its admirable Lake states, with no less evidence that the topography, that those people were
born destined to the social community.

In fact, if you look at the strange configuration of the entire lake, the opposite direction
its bays and five major rivers or streams drain into the basin common
granite, is recognized in a very distant time, but the current did
not exist a series of five or six lakes, linked together by rivers
and stretching that determined confounded all the Lucerne Basin.

Thus, having its main channel flow and in the Reuss, the total lake (which must have formed
by natural levees breaking and the widening more or less slow tributary channels) is: to the
east, the waters of Muottas, central stream the canton of Schwyz, the west, on the Isenthal,
the lower or middle Aa city of Nidwalden, and higher Aa, which, as I said, collects the waters
of the canton of Obwalden half.

The lake as a whole has the irregular shape of some sort of a Latin cross with the shaft broken
down, but lying in the opposite direction. The broken foot is a small basin Altorf for the valley,
particularly called Lake of Uri, and fed only by the waters of the Reuss and Isenthal. The central
body of the cross is determined the other basin of a very different direction, almost enclosed by
two narrow, which is named Buochs ??particular lake, and get at its upper end Muottas waters,
and towards the N.-O. Aa the bottom. Below opens another watershed, one of the beams a magnificent
four-star gulfs, is both the principle of the body or trunk the large cross. There the waters
are divided into four receptacles quite similar: on the right foot tour of the magnificent mountain
of Rigi or Righi, bearing at its apex to Küssnach; on the left, which
is another arm of the cross, is directed towards the foot of the colossal
mass of Pilate, and is divided into two smaller bays, one of which
is Lake Alpnach, in short, that determines the head of the cross takes
its direction towards Lucerne with the unique name of Lake Lucerne,
is making its way through the midst of beautiful, rolling hills, dividing
the city into two parts, and restore the river Reuss.

This imperfect and pale description will give some idea of ??the singular caprice or the multiplicity
forms the lake of Four Cantons, the most interesting of all of Switzerland for appearance and composition
geological basins that are chained, and the most poetic Also, because of the performances offered
and the relatively evokes memories to the history of the Confederation Considered in full,
the lake has an elevation from 438 to 450 meters above sea level, and measured at its maximum
length 38.530 meters, 15.100 wide and 360 deep. The various directions of the valleys or the works
that are incline toward the lake basin determines the most diverse and even opposing wind currents,
which together with the steep, rocky composition throughout the bed,
produces the most violent storms, which are repeated frequently and
sometimes suddenly.

Lucerne is, no doubt, by their situation and the gorgeous countryside surrounding it, one of the
funniest cities in Switzerland, or at least of that delay on lake margins. Thus, a whole or general
appearance, whether you look at it from the lake, whether it contemplates from some eminence,
is wonderfully poetic and cheerful. HOWEVER, within, apart some curious details, Lucerne does not
correspond to their appearance or to the idea that their reputation makes him conceive in advance
of the traveler. The facade does not match at all with interior é of the city. When we arrived
on board the steamer which took us from eleven o'clock Alpenach in the morning, under a sky
full of splendor glistened in the beam almost perpendicular the sun the lake and the river,
docks and bridges, great and beautiful modern buildings dominate a wide boardwalk square, the towers
of the cathedral and other churches, and numerous towers and bastions of feudal crenellated walls that
surround the city. This set was really seductive, and its beauty is completed with the magnificence
of the scenery round about, overcrowding of beautiful rolling hills
covered with orchards and gardens dotted with villas and picturesque
country houses in dispersion.

But to penetrate into the city, just behind the first row of buildings overlooking the lake,
everything changed in appearance. Wherever there are filth in the streets, Dresses sad, neglected
and without character, winding streets, ugly and unpleasant, and looking houses with much sympathy.
Fortunately, if the dirt and waste increases sorrow of those streets, industrial and commercial
movement gives them some animation of another kind. The curious traveler stops to look at public
sources of traditional forms and features (perhaps the most original of all those seen in Switzerland),
and bridges cast Reuss on to join the two parts of the city, nearly all of wood, covered and
decorated with the most curious altarpieces. Each country is manifested in its monuments in
Switzerland, the country the pure and abundant waters, has lavished
on all those sources commemorative cities national traditions, the
forms are so characteristic.

Lucerne is not remarkable for any fine art, industrial or literary, or their monuments or public
buildings. Their unique wooden bridges, so characteristic of Switzerland, as public sources
of stone topped by figures of warriors or animals, curious that are not in fact deserve the name
of monuments. The most beautiful building in the city, located on the S.-O., to the left of
the river, is the former Jesuit College (now Lycée cantonal become), and that superiority is further
evidence of that everywhere the Society of Jesus has made the best batch. Of the four bridges
of Lucerne the most notable are: the Hof, measuring 360 meters long and crosses the apex of the lake,
offers a wonderful view over the mountains, and is lined inside with 238 bad pictures painted
in oils representing biblical passages, and the Kapell, which dominates the point the lake becomes
a river, is 324 meters and contains 154 pictures of very old date represent events in the history
of Switzerland and the life and times of the two patron saints of the city, for the curious
who are these old bridges is to be welcomed the resolution of demolish the city to establish
piers and docks along the banks of river, and replace them with more
solid and elegant buildings.

Of all the sights of Lucerne, which draws more attention from passers travelers The monument is dedicated,
out of town, to the memory of Swiss soldiers who died the service of Louis XVI on the famous
day of August 10, 1792, fighting against the people Paris. The monument consists of a huge lion
allegorical (9 meters long and 6 height) carved in the bottom of a sort of cave dug into a large
boulder. A waterfall that jumps over the lion, falling into a pond, a nearby chapel, a smart
house within which sales are a thousand curiosities, and flags of green surrounding the monument,
complete the picture funny. There we found a keeper in uniform of the Swiss of Louis XVI, securing
with much aplomb to three English ladies he had fought like a lion in the usual day of August
10, escaped by a miracle. Although the illustrious fighter having stated no more than sixty
years, and was very knowledgeable in point of French geography, that did not prevent a serious
citizen "perfidious Albion" were eagerly collecting the reminiscences of the Swiss and carefully
writing them a portfolio of travel, as news of the first order.

If the naive credulity of the island made us smile, I confess I did not understand the pride that
the citizens of Lucerne maintain this strange monument, which to my eyes was but a pattern
of infamy, or at least a sad reminiscence. Instead of devoting monuments to the memory of the degradation
of the noble and free people of Switzerland, citizens the Confederation should make every effort
to condemn to oblivion the flamboyant mercenary which for centuries has made Switzerland a hotbed
of soldiers of the most odious tyranny and the most corrupt and corrupting governments. If in
the last ten years has Swiss mercenaries seen looting Peruza, as soldiers of the Pope and defending
atrocities the cause of the Bourbons of Naples, it must be remembered also, in honor of radicalism
Swiss, the assemblies and the government of the Confederation have taken action at this time
strong to end the mercenaries. Thanks to the incomparable Garibaldi and to Gialdini and other
general Italian, Swiss soldiers have disappeared from southern Italy; and between the major results
of the Italian revolution will not be one of the less significant the replacement of the heroic
and selfless volunteer (an instrument of emancipation and symbol the brotherhood of the people)
instead of a mercenary from another era, an instrument of oppression
and a symbol of human degradation.

       

* * * * *

Lucerne, mainly Catholic city, has about 11.500 inhabitants, which in 1857 only 317 were Protestants.
Thanks to steam navigation of the lake, in relation to the road leading to Italy by the Saint-Gothard,
and the recent railroad that has been rapid communication with Bern and railways in western and
northern Switzerland, Lucerne begins to have considerable commercial importance, though perhaps
partly lose it when Italy and Switzerland have direct and prompt communication. Lucerne industry
is reduced to some tissues cotton, flax and hemp and articles of hosiery, and factories are
very subordinate. Produce also straw hats and other items of little importance. For the rest, Lucerne
is faithful general thought (the result of the emulation system that generates the federal independence)
that inspires so careful to the Swiss interest in training establishments and charities. The
isolation of nature had been to the Swiss villages, before the invention modern industry in the field
of communications, had made them understand that they should Take full force themselves. Therefore,
it has been so deep and general feeling in Switzerland fraternity, which is manifested in the numerous
hospitals, hospices and other facilities similar. As to the education, emulation, on the one hand,
sustained for autonomy social policy and the cantons, and second, the progress of democratic
ideas and institutions after 1798, and 1848 in particular, have favored
the multiplication of institutions intended to propagate the knowledge
of all kinds in the masses.

I will note here, subject to subsequent observations, some curious contrasts that attentive
traveler easily seen in the cities of Switzerland. In no country are so appropriate comparisons
as in Switzerland, where a small but highly varied territory coexist Confederate several very
different races, with different religions, practices, arts, and institutions very different.
Without wishing in any way infer general rules in favor or against any religion, I can say that without any
notable exception, I have observed in all cities Switzerland a clear contrast with respect to
the mercenary, the messiness, the situation of the establishments and customs, and public instruction
of the masses. The Protestant cantons supplied to an insignificant number of despots, as mercenaries,
the vast Most or almost all of these ever left the Catholic cantons. Does the Protestantism is
favorable to liberty and maintains and promotes a sense of dignity personal? I think so, judging from
the facts I have observed in many European states, corresponding
to different races and religions.

As for the taste or instinct for cleanliness and decency, I have seen in Switzerland (and later I will
note the same for other countries) the contrast between twelve of the capital of counties that
I visited. In the series of cities we visited from Geneva to Schaffhausen, through Lausanne,
Neuchâtel, Fribourg, Bern, Lucerne, Altorf, Zug and district in Zurich, and from Saint-Gall to Basel,
we have seen, however, the alternation where are these cities, because of their religious beliefs,
this difference: in Geneva, Lausanne, Neuchâtel, Bern, district in Zurich, St. Gallen, Basel
and Schaffhausen, Protestant cities, decency, cleanliness and care in all public affairs, in Fribourg,
Lucerne and Zug Altorf, slovenliness, carelessness on the masses and streets, lack or shortage of
taste. The same contrast offered by the Swiss cities regarding a popular instruction, to the
situation of the public and to the demonstrations activity and progress as summarized in the customs,
industry and institutions whatever the races subject to observation. In the central region
of Switzerland, dominating perfectly homogeneous territory in its appearance, its products,
etc., and favored by an equal autonomy, I have seen a string of cities
from Lake Geneva to the Rhine linked in this order: Geneva, Lausanne,
Neuchâtel, Fribourg, Bern, Lucerne, Zug, Zurich