 

  Instead, America has the same attachment to Europe money, has
  the softness of his vices, with greater intensity, and floor beside
  his splendid, its strong and thriving vegetation, distínguese
  by moral weakness, sterility Smart, yes, it surpasses surpassing
  Europe as in corruption and moral decadence, is two hundred years
  ago the Europe in the noble path of knowledge: that is the America
  the virgin, fresh and shining America.
  

  When you have received the literary education of Europe, when is
  crossed by railway lines, when it's happy day of the abolition
  of this great social crime called Slavery, then, not now,
  America will be a great country.
  

  Today is worked by the thirst of gold, no communications, and is
  in its infancy of knowledge, because as it is in the new public
  life of nations, needs to study and create a history and literature.

One
  of the visits that the traveler should not be dispensed in Rio Janeiro,
is the establishment of crazy that is located just opposite the promenade
and to Bota-fogo sea.

  
  
  A majestic new building, we can very well call palace, elegant shapes
of simple but graceful appearance of solidity and extension, stands
by the sea cute site in the Bota-fogo, and serves to hospital insane.

  
  
  The first observation that I thought, was to note that Emperor
  of Brazil lack of a palace, as the two you have with
  that name are nothing but houses, is a great the thought of the mad
house in a superb home.

  
  
  I do not know if the Brazilians have noted the contrast, as
  to Me, I approved it with all my heart, congratulating to see better
accommodated to the insane Emperor, hopefully the same thing happen
in all countries of the world! the sick, the unfortunate, the insane,
certainly need more than the monarchs, comfort, cleanliness, healthy
air, large rooms and In short, I understand that the misfortune is
more worthy of a palace, that all human greatness.

  
  
  The establishment of Rio de Janeiro is mad at the height of a house
  of the same kind of Europe: large, spacious, well located, with
  excellent internal police: something very rare in Brazil: with good
  hygienic system, with teachers working with very well attended.

Hospitals
  are well within the regular Brazil: In the capital there is a pretty
  good, and is located in a building with more status and importance
that Emperor's Palace: only some monumental building there throughout
Brazil, is called Hospice of Pedro II.

  
  
  The public instruction now begins to insinuate itself, being
  as are unhappy slaves who make up the majority of population of
  the empire, are condemned to live like robots.

  
  
  Governments must care not to black out their dumbing down, fearing
  that the instruction to learn and brothers who are free from their
  oppressors.

  
  Missing books, libraries, museums, intellectual life in word.
  

  The most elegant abode of the Emperor is located in Petropolis
  kind of real place, seven leagues from Rio de Janeiro [35].
  

  The road is in a picturesque and varied, steam sea, land steam,
  and carriage.

  Departing from Rio de Janeiro the traveler embarks on one of the
  steamers that make voyage across the bay consisting of lasting five
quarters Time: When land is taken Mana railroad that leads to the
foot of the mountain on which stands Petrópolis.

  
  
  The railway, poorly constructed, with carriages and detestable
  bad move, has the sole advantage of being very short, because in
  half an hour runs through the extension: completed the second trip,
  he weighs the mountains in wagons drawn by four horses, the
  time spent is an hour, which ending the expedition.

  
  
  In Petrópolis nothing to do absolutely nothing: site Recreation in
  the wind fresh and pure that there breathes its height is larger
  because the temperature is cool, that it.
  

  From the top of the mountain range reaches the sea, mountains and
  delightful countryside. In Petrópolis, whose population barely
  200 inhabitants, has a beautiful palace, the emperor and there
  it goes usually the months of December, January and February, which
are those of more heat.

  For travelers, there are two regular hotels, the East and the English:
  there are some rides and horses rent.
  
  The main ports of the empire are Bahia, Pernambuco, Santa Catalina,
  Parahiba, Paranaguá, Pará.
  
  Pernambuco, unkempt city in the extreme, with streets miserable and
humble homes and without any cleaning, not worth the discomfort of
being seen, and I say discomfort, because it is and no small landing
at the port.

  The waves are constantly angry, and apart from the risk involved
  is long and difficult journey, because the vessels to anchor well
away from the city.

  
  
  The traveler who is not a merchant, will give a very good test like
  not visiting that city in Pernambuco, where it was of
  their trade in cotton and coffee, will not find more than a
  absolute lack of cleanliness.
  

  Almost always prevail in Pernambuco malignancies.
  
  Bahia, Brazil's former capital, there's nothing more remarkable
  than the convenient bay, the city is built on the side of a mountain
and presented to the traveler as an amphitheater.

  

  
  The streets are all unpaved, dirty and in very poor condition: there
  is a modest garden called public promenade, some regular buildings,
a theater, three or four hotels, two walks, and painstaking desire
to show that foreign Cleaning is not the strongest of the Brazilians,
because the same thing Pernambuco and Bahia to Rio de Janeiro are
distinguished by the specialty.

  
  
  In Bahia there is a university, to which very few attend students,
  teachers have Brazilians and just this because strictly speaking,
  in Brazil there are no more city Rio de Janeiro: the other villages
  of the empire are more or less neighborhood, according to
  the importance of their trade.

  
  
  The Brazilian army, composed mostly of blacks and mulattos, is uniform
  with all the jests possible forming an amusing glance the formation
  of battalions, which played without keeping all colors rainbow.

  
  
  The Navy is now beginning to be formed, and the government,
  comprising that for the prosperity of Brazil is absolutely
  necessary a regular navy, promotes and protects as it can.

  
  
  As a constitutionally governed country, Brazil has the duty National,
which is better than the army uniform.

  
  

  One of the positive developments in Brazil is the popular
  institution of the jury in civil matters to criminal include:
  as a country ruled with representative forms, is parliament, composed
  of two chambers that periodically meet with the ministers for
  directing the affairs of the empire.

  
  The periodical press has unlimited freedom, which do not make
  very good use of some newspapers which I had occasion
  to reading, using only voices that are inappropriate in Dictionary
  taverns. Four political newspapers River of some importance: the
  oldest of all is the Journal of Commerce.

  
  
  Major trading houses belong to Brazil foreigners, and also the
  most luxurious and As has European appearance: the activity of
  Brazilian is limited and short, which is understood in ratio to its
climate and to the customs they have inherited from the Portuguese.

  

  
  Women are not very graceful in general.
  
  The weather is not as hot as it is generally believed in Europe:
  only three months of the year the heat is felt with some
  force, but always bearable: the nine months remaining, the temperature
is bearable, being good on particularly in the months of May, June,
July and August are spring and truly magnificent.

  
  
  Rain is frequent in the hottest months, with temperature which is
quite the atmosphere, and the Pampero wind, that very often blows,
refreshes and purifies the air.

  

  
  Thirty-three years, Brazil became independent.
  
  In Brazil there are still monks, which is a calamity, as they have
  in their possession a huge wealth, which disentailed
  would make the country prosper.

  The government should order their immediate sale, and with it would
gain much Brazil, as well as the suppression of the monks, whose institution
has passed.

  
  

  # BUENOS-AIRES AND MONTEVIDEO. #
  

  Rio de Janeiro to Buenos-Aires and Montevideo are used five days
  vapor.
  
  Life is quite different in Brazil: the climate, customs, language,
everything is different.

  
  
  The company is easy and pleasant: in Buenos-Aires, where
  the climate is delicious, they have some good buildings, cafes, hotels,
chic shops, many casinos, where he meets a good society, excellent
walks, two theaters, beautiful women.

  
  

  The political agitation which unfortunately is almost always live
  really sorry: the day they are organized in a way permanent and stable,
giving the country the peace you need.

  
  
  Buenos-Aires is one of the first capital of America South.

Their
  trade is starting to develop in large scale: elements of wealth that
may have to be much.

  
  
  Montevideo is also a lively and animated, his face, similar
  in all to the Buenos-Aires, though less scale also in the minds dispierta
the same painful reflections.

  
  
  The political convulsions that agitated many long years, almost
  ceaselessly objected to its development and prosperity: with sites
  and blockades, have fallen to the ground some of its buildings
  ....
  
  The population has decreased rather than increased ... and leaving
these reflections, sad for everyone, and even more for a Spanish,
we finished our chapter on America, making sincere votes for the prosperity
of the Spanish race that populates their regions, noble race, racial
dignity, which can not perish ever, for more than his misfortunes
have been led to believe the Anglo-Saxon North absorb that one day,
no, no, that day is impossible, that day will never come.

  

  
  GENERAL IMPRESSIONS # #
  
  The trip, which we call open book of instruction, where much can
  be learned: the trip, which widens horizons of intelligence,
  recreating the mood and always offering new and different theaters
  of observation: travel, completing the best education, which provides
  immense joy to behold the beauty of nature, dazed and stand rapt
  in front of the wonders that keeps within it: the trip, providing
  new knowledge that study allows comparative analysis of civilizations
  people among themselves, the trip, which makes the study of customs,
  dispierta love to study languages, the journey, in short,
  is for us the most perfect of educations, the best of pleasures,
  our most determined inclination.

  
  
  The idea alone of a ride through France, Switzerland, Italy, or any
other country in Europe, produces a great satisfaction.

  
  

  Glimpse, even before starting the journey, a series of new emotions
  to which most welcome.
  
  The costumes, language, traditions and customs, nature, and multiple,
present us with interesting, with novelty, charm: we never remember
the discomfort that precision should be supported traveling.

  
  
  Today, with rail lines that cross the Europe, with excellent hotels
that are usually found, no suffer penalties.

  
  
  Apart from our passion for travel, the intimate We are convinced
  that the instruction that report, we have another very useful
  advantage, which is to conformed instinctively and without any study,
applications, customs, language and climate of the country where we
are.

  
  
  While never be Spanish, as we are in our country, where we travel,
  easily accommodate many offer variations together peoples and their
way of life in society, to speak, to feel.

  
  
  When the traveling rule, remains abroad everywhere, we have
  the advantage of assimilating and agree with the new countries we
visited, and this performed, without study, spontaneously.

  

  
  From here on how well we are everywhere.
  
  And indeed, every time you cross a border, hearing speak a new
  language, watching another expression in the faces, stopping on
  the differences in costumes, a pleasant and helpful study begins
for us, with pleasure pretend to know the specific skills and physiognomic
to each of these large families are called nations.

  
  
  For many, the coming to a town in a strange country, which first
  visit is an unpleasant impression, because vain to cross streets
  and squares crowded with people crossing in all directions: as
  a traveler to any known, as No one expects, like all the faces
  are new, it seems then the foreign title saddened and grief,
  making an impression on the mind state painful complete isolation
in which it is.

  
  
  This is what happens to many, and indeed it is understood and explains,
  and is no less true that this situation discourages to some, affected
  by the silence of friendship that makes around it, suffer the first
few days on arrival in New populations.

  
  

  Very different is the impression we received when entering in a
  strange city.
  
  Without pretend, even remotely, to make a ridiculous protest
  of eccentricity, we, to be true, we record that contrary to what
happens to many, we a singular pleasure to experience what we have
noted above.

  
  
  The new faces, the assurance that no one expected, the new way
  of speaking that satisfy our questions, all differences of detail
  than ever seen in a people who've visited for the first time, serve
  Used to study unless we provide matter for comment, we distract and
entertain comfortably.

  
  
  As soon as we entered a completely unknown city, and a quarter
  of an hour after settling down in a hotel We went outside, and without
guides, without commissionnaires alone completely, moving in the direction
that pleases us most.

  
  
  In view of a monument, a striking church, a building value,
  we stop to visit, we entered the temples, going to the competition
sites, look for everywhere.

  
  
  This is our system, this our particular pleasure: if as I confess,
is not everyone's taste, to me gives me nice views, that's the truth.

  
  
  Those traveling with a guide in hand received only rejection ideas,
judge with prevention, talk like the book, and lack the exquisite
pleasure of receiving direct emotions.

  
  
  Before entering a city, the Traveller's Guide browse endlessly, and
  tell them the number of notable buildings that must be visited,
  the special architecture of each, the hotel to that target, the
  sights worth seeing; in other words, regulating the visits
  of traveler, to say the method to observe assessments and communicate
  it preconceptions, and take away the beautiful power of judging
  their own eyes, to feel for his affections, according thinking
  their opinion, write notes to dictate their own taste particular
  criterion, he canceled the trip, I disenchanted advance, stolen the
illusion of novelty.

  
  
  Easily understand that many travelers, perhaps the greatest
  party, judge and see for themselves without adopting the views
  of Guide editor: I know that not all conform to what read,
  but in spite of all his good will to judge for themselves,
  for be independent in their comments, it's always some
  Indeed reading the descriptions, painting the customs and the general
view of the manners and customs the country.

  
  
  Travel with my system, I feel more emotions than you direct receipt
of persons treated, monuments I contemplate, I observe the customs.

  
  
  I judge everything without the intermediary of the Guide, Whichever
  see, according to what I feel. In this way enjoy the most, why
  known is that when you know in advance and descriptions a city,
  the charm of mystery and complete ignorance that is, allowing the
imagination to create landscape paintings varied, disappears completely
and can not take place.

  
  
  Even in large cities follow the same order: chance and
  happen to be my guide, I am the streets better I think, looking for
pleasant surprises and asking only to the chance the occasion of the
monuments.

  
  
  I remember well that on my first trip to London, I had the satisfaction
  to find myself suddenly and unsuspectingly even, over against the
magnificent and impressive building Parliament.

  
  
  The magic thrill that I experienced contemplating, insurance
  I had not appreciated its great value, if it had gone the
  hotel accompanied by a cicerone, who along the way I have described
the building, the severity of their weighted Gothic architecture and
given me an idea of ??his greatness.

  
  

  Here's why the news always fled and descriptions early, I receive
  for myself.
  

  Targeted briefly my general impressions of travel, and picked up
  on my statements and notes, although disordered editing, finished
  this book, unpretentious writing.
  
  The naive and old-fashioned way of claiming the author
  in the first page of his work, the reader's indulgence, has fallen
into disuse unfortunate or fortunately.

  Even at the risk of appearing disaffected with the current fashion,
  I recommend my humble belatedly book to the kindness of those
  who will browse, whether it be with distraction.
  
  This brief summary statement of my trips to Europe and Latin,
  translates two feelings, involves a twofold desire: I raise my feeble
voice in this loud modern Rome, which Paris called to make known my
dear homeland, and I meet me debt contracted at the beginning of my
trip to pick up my printing and advertising.

  
  
  I fear that my voice goes out into the noise and I suspect that this
book not carefully written, but I have my good intentions.

  

  

  Paris, April 1858.

  
  
  # END.
  #
  
  # INDEX.
  #
  
  To my dear
  friend
  Mr. DG Petan
  and MAZARIEGOS
  In a foreword
  is sometimes
  necessary
  Spain France Paris Switzerland
  Bern England Italy Turin Germany Vienna Portugal America Brazil Buenos-Aires
and Montevideo General impression

[Footnote 1: which employ 60.000
workers.]

[Footnote 2: According to statistics published by the Moniteur
in July 1857, have failed to sign their marriage contracts, not read
or write, a third of men and half women.]

[Footnote 3: Today is the
Bayonne to Bordeaux by way of iron.]

[Footnote 4: It is huge, through
the heart of Paris, ending in the Place de la Bastille.]

[Footnote
5: Worth a special visit to the colossal and imposing of Hales, the
most vast and elegant in Europe.]

[Footnote 6: The column is fused
with the guns that took in the battle of Austerlitz.]

[Footnote 7:
I do not share that opinion.

  The Rachel lived when I first visited the theater.]

[Footnote 8:
At the gates of all households are read names of tenants who live
there: next to each name is the handle of the bell which corresponds
the room.]

[Footnote 9: Today is on track to close iron Bern.]

[Footnote
10: The best hotel in Basel is that of the three Kings with a gallery
on the famous Rhine]

[Footnote 11: All almshouses and instruction
in Switzerland are the best in Europe.]

[Footnote 12: Beside the
lake of Thun is celebrated reputation federal holiday.]

[Footnote
13: Surrounded by elegant homes and palaces, aspect Paris, we cross
several bridges.]

[Footnote 14: In the capital of this canton is
a magnificent manuscript file.]

[Footnote 15: The aristocratic traditions
of some cantons, municipalities argued, have left to exist.]

[Footnote
16: In its many clubs.]

[Footnote 17: Where the people heard the
celebrated Go to church.]

[Footnote 18: Even in the way of calling
to the doors distinguish between rich and poor, that is the English
liberty!]

[Footnote 19: I visited the famous tunnel that lies at
the foot of London Bridge, unnecessary work and pure luxury.]

[Footnote
20: Near Fluelen, Altorf, birthplace of William Tell, with a fountain
in his honor.]

[Footnote 21: It has two other cities in Ticino, Lugano
which are and Locarno, Bellinzona is the capital.]

[Footnote 22:
The Rialto Bridge was built by Antonio de Porte.]

[Footnote 23: Ludovico
Manini was at the head of the republic Venetian when it was killed
by Napoleon in 1799.]

[Footnote 24: In Piazza San Carlo, a monument
dedicated to Emanuele Filiberto, very good, Marrochetti sculptor.]

[Footnote
25: also advised travelers to visit in the Turin Beaumont gallery,
superb armor collection of the Counts House of Savoy.]

[Footnote
26: Solo deserves to be the chapel of the Shroud in the Cathedral
of San Juan, has a black marble vault, quite remarkable.]

[Footnote
27: When I crossed the Savoy, was Eugene Sue established in a village
near Chambery.]

[Footnote 28: Near Chambery, I visited the sites
described and dwelt Rousseau, including Charmettes house, where they
spent his love for Mme Warens, many memories of Savoy.]

[Footnote
29: The one that exists in Dresden, Saxony's capital, is much better
and richer.]

[Footnote 30: For example the new Maxine, adorned with
a magnificent statue of the general Devoy.]

[Footnote 31: In a place
whose name I forget stands a bronze obelisk in memory of the wars
with Napoleon.]

[Footnote 32: In the same university in Munich, studied
the famous philosopher Schelling.]

[Footnote 33: This steam, water
launched in 1836, has been the first to be built in Europe of 2500
tons and first of its size made the voyage to America.]

[Footnote
34: Wood can be said that English is an island, many are the English
who live there.]

[Footnote 35: There is a German colony in Petropolis.]

 