 And this appreciation, as well as advanced time, he
did send his mass quickly.

After the ceremony, Mr. Caramel was the first to flee, raising his
hands to the face sweltering.

- Cursed be my gun!

Serca two hours in the oven ... Er commander, because I am Spanish, always gives me these assignments.
With what I have wrote in the police station! ...

And hurried, passing the abbot, who returned to find his ornaments
place them by placing them one by one, counted up and clean, in travel
cases.

The band played their morning concert. All the chairs were filled ride. The ladies, dressed in
white enjoyed the welfare of a minor after the anguish freshness suffered in the classroom.
Circulating form the agenda of the parties with whom solemnized Over the line: four days of
banquets, concerts and athletic games. Many laughed of the jokes with which the butler had
splashed the program thanks innocent of overwhelming heaviness that
seemed stored in the warehouse of the ship with artificial flowers,
flags and shields of cardboard, to emerge on a fixed date for all
trips.

Ojeda, leaving the deck, was arrested by the smile of Mrs. Power and abandoned his companion,
leaning beside her on the railing.

"Devil woman! - Thought Maltrana -. Looks like Fernando smells. One would think have eyes to see
him in the neck. Is facing the sea and just approached us, turns
his head smiling in advance, confident that it is he who is coming.

"

A chorus of vociferous, big laughs and applause rang out on the terrace of the den, and Maltrana
anxious to know what was going on the ship ran into this site.

Nelida was surrounded by fans and other people who had been attracted by the new aspect that
had some of them. Baron Belgian rival German and others they had mustaches, stood now with freshly
shaved upper lip, and this new caused the ironic cheers of friends.

Nelida smiled, looking down modestly. Had expressed the previous day that never would love a man with
whiskers, she was by the male to the American style, with face clean of hair as well as Hellenic
wrestlers. And that was enough to those men, eroded by competition ran deaf to communicate with
the barber, appearing before the fickle disfigured young man who
embraced them all into a common love, without distinction to none.

-
This girl is going to go crazy - Maltrana said Ojeda, who had run
well to learn the reason for the crash -.

Now it seems that her taste is that men shave. I am free of it: I have followed the fashion
now. But you, Fernando, get rid that this girl will take the eye. I threatened her beautiful
whiskers.

- To me !...-- Fernando said, shrugging his shoulders contemptuously
and looking Nélida that by chance while fixed his eyes on him -.

No danger, Maltrana ... I turn with the U.S..

When the two friends met at the table at lunch time, noticed the absence Dr. Rubau.

- The poor man is very sad - Munster said -. I reported last night that would shut all day in his
cabin. Today is the sixth anniversary of the death of his wife, and all Over the years, wherever he
is, does the same. Isolated, think of it, not eating, crying with all freedom.

Maltrana ironically admired the conduct of the doctor. Who would suspect this despair romantic
in that old doctor, with his seventy years, his whiskers and teeth
stained mounted Gold?

... And life may be crying Lord have often fought the two and he would carry on his conscience
more than an affair ...

- The illusion, Ojeda!

The whimsical illusion, which magnifies things when we lose and we
makes love with new love, erasing the memories ungrateful.

After lunch, Maltrana disappeared with a mysterious air. Had spoken to his friend some expedition to the
most interesting part of the vessel, a visit that very few gained do. But he had friends, enjoyed
great influence, and accompanying Carmelo, the the police station, was to make his whim.

He declined to say more, and went downstairs, leaving Ojeda lying on a deck chair.

Sticky heat dampened the fronts and backs. The position changed dormitantes to separate the
clothing attached epidermis with sweat.

A faint puff, something and a mild stroke white stood out in the blue horizon to the bow of the liner.
It was a sailboat, yet distant, sailing the same course of Goethe. Soon we reach this, the wind
was low, from time to time a burst, then the quiet equatorial dense stunned, they seemed to
gravitate over the ocean, barely touched by slight tremors.

Marcab suddenly on the sea light a large black circle. Arose from the horizon a shadow bar was
rolling rapidly toward the ship, like a piece of cloth unwound, while obscuring the sky and water. In
this area of ??the shadow bristling sea looked small points, like
the surface of a brush.

Progress only lasted a few minutes. Passed the ship, with a speed equal to that of mutations stage,
the hot sun to a pale shadow of storm. The rain wrapped with a tragic accompaniment of raucous
thunder and lightning, thunder and hear only the solitude of the
ocean.

The rain was not in abundance, but in large masses, as if the bottom fell out a lake above him and
all of a sudden fall in volume. Came in the form of knives for the interstices of the canvas, filling
the deck at the side of the wind, glided in undulating streams at the foot of the rails; aglomerábase
in the gutters, that bubbling, choking on so much fluid. Awnings and quejábanse plates and beaten.

And
after five minutes, when the people, frightened, collected books and cushions covers to deliver
them from the flood, took refuge with them in the classroom, suddenly
emerged from sun, the ship, dripping, shining as if it were gold,
and the stain was running shadow in the luminous sea, becoming smaller,
more narrow, until lost in the infinite, as if you were rolling an
invisible hand.

Soon he had devoured the equatorial heat to the innermost wet spot. When even slipped a few drops
in the channels late, the tables covered, burning sun-cracked again
under the steps.

Fifteen minutes after the stormy rain there were no traces of him. You will be remembered as something
absurd and unreal, in the sweltering heat in the afternoon, under a sky of blue oil on a sea
boiling with sun glare retina and gave the impression of a warm lake waters infinite.

Formabase in avante cover a group of children and servants who pointed
to the skyline.

Passengers went, pointing their twins in the same direction. Ojeda gave up his seat to join
the group and they were close dormitantes also joined, running with childlike curiosity that inspired
the minor event in the monotonous existence of a board ...

The sailboat was a short distance from the Transatlantic, moving to his bow as a mountain white
square canvas slightly pink in the sun. A maneuver of Goethe put aside, and then appeared
visible from stem to stern, with his helmet painted iron green, sharp and fast, and the sails of
its five masts, huge, huge: a forest of leaves Canvas with nerves of steel, which contained
the smallest breeze, vibrating and rearing under his breath.

Some passengers get off the bridge telegraph transmitting the news. Was a Bremen sailing and did not
go to America. Approached the coast of Brazil to take the wind, After winning the Cape of Good Hope.
I went to China to carry rice.

The Goethe greeted with a roar the flag of the vessel. Two dozen of little men, dwarfed by the distance,
agolpábanse on the deck, bare-chested, waving aloft their white caps equal to those of the cooks.
Guess her screams are absorbed by the silence of the Ocean, of which not the slightest echo came
up steam. Two huge dogs, shaggy, fierce, positions of legs on the side as well as individuals,
also greeted contorsionantes barking in the distance that made silent gestures.

Was lagging behind the sailing vessel. He remained a moment parallel to the bow, then, for follow,
was the crowd that runs through the covers. Finally, migrants were only piled in the stern, standing
Goethe flag on the white pyramid of his sails.

Seemed motionless, although two knives rebullían foam over its bow. "Goodbye! Bon voyage! "Shouted
the crowd in several languages ??clustered on the edges ... And the boat was getting smaller,
as if walking backwards waving wrinkles violent pitching foamy sent
to meet the propellers turning invisible.

At the end seemed to be still, sinking into the distant horizon terms
of one, in the limitless plain, where he would doze off with the burning
candles unconsciousness calm day, which would advance night as a ghost,
surrounded by phosphorescent foam, swinging the huge moon yellowish
between the forest of his rig.

Ojeda surprised not to see his friend on the cover. Something had to worry to much interest leave
unnoticed that this meeting amounted to a major event in the monotonous
life board.

To rid the group, making each other their armchairs and into the coffee, Fernando Conchita found
that walking with graceful swaying, pulling the elbows, mounted on high and noisy high heels. South
American ladies, to see it happen, was called the "Spanish Donostia."

His sharp black eyes and stared into Fernando.

- Go with God, bad person! You do not want anything with countrywomen, seem little thing. Particularly
for women who speak in foreign and even God understands ... No, son, if I do not want anything
with you! Better ride alone ... Yanka there is in watching the sea with half eye and the other
half looking for you. Come, that awaits.

And Conchita walked away with noisy heels, while Fernando, drawn by eye Mrs. Power clear and
gentle, ironic smile between, went to her, leaning on the rail to
engage the second day courtship.

Unable to do anything else in this prison float, which was useless to flee, because when you
turn on the opposite side of the cover we found the fugitive with the same people.

Talks with the U.S. began to tire Ojeda. These flirts with no result
monotone seemed to him, sweet and endless, like the psalms of Gospel
Chapel.

Always the same: glimpses sentimental melancholy words alternated with cold jokes and mordants
that came along with them. If he expressed a wish to leave, a leer amounted to a promise and some
words of double meaning kept him still. When, suddenly excited, tried to advance, she smiled
with innocence malicious: "I do not understand ... I do not understand. " And if at last confessed
his understanding, was pursing brow and flushed with cold protesting: "Shocking."

Sometimes withdrawing half offended by the verbal audacity Fernando, and he breathed satisfied
and disappointed at the same time. "Go with God and never come back! - Was said to Rabies -. The
truth is I do not know why I waste my time with this woman. "

But several hours passed without a resumption of relations of good friendship. Maud met him pretending
to be distracted, awaiting the step, leaning on the railing, gazing the sea in the attitude
of an actress who is spied on by the camera, and was quite a smile,
eye movement, a slight cough, so that Fernando came back to join her.

"I is bullfighting - protested it mentally -. He's having fun with me ... Oh, if we were on
earth could stop to see you! What a kick to keep you going, my daughter! "

But they were in the ocean, enclosed in a space of a few hundred meters. A string Unbreakable held
them both, and when you moved away, the other was forced back. Had to resign themselves to an
arduous courtship and contradictory, a tug of war that seemed very much in the woman and made
her open the eyes of a smiling cruelty spasm sadistic, whenever he
senses excited with mysterious allusions or looks promising contracted
mad with desire.

His only concern coming out of these punishments was that Isidro not know the truth. How to
make fun of him to know the behavior of Maud! ... And impulses of his manly pride, vanity boasted
that the male, which compromises the lie to preserve their prestige,
accepted the congratulations and the envy of Maltrana, which imagined
winner.

From time to time, remorse and fear seized him. Oh, if the second on the from afar what was happening
on the ship! If Teri could see how it looks the eye of a lock! ...

The shame made him stand still in his chair, reading a book, oblivious
to everything around him.

Other times, hoping to isolate itself further, moved his seat at the last cover and hid behind
a boat, enjoying the pleasure of winning will, of their strong resolution to decide to be faithful.
But the narrowness of plotting against closure virtue. Impossible to remain isolated. The necessities
of life, the call touches the dining room, gathered them all.

In addition, the woman seemed endowed with a diabolical sense to guess their presence. We discovered
in their hiding places, and sections were, passed proud and appealing to him at once, like a queen
convinced of her majesty, with fluid around his person dislocated and beat down the best-built
holy purposes.

Fernando recognized, apart from this, that the most formidable enemy was within. Was asleep in
the desert beast, which reared to sniff the perfume of Maud, purity forced by lack of opportunity,
that twisted fiercely to the tantalizing curve, length hand contact or del amor sheathed in silk white
black or gray silk exhibited the skirts gathered tempting to climb
a ladder to volunteer oversight.

Ojeda beat again we left with any of these incidents. Upon reaching the ground would another man,
would regain their loyalty, but here they were in the Atlantic, and who would know what ever
happen! ... Had to be delivered to its destination, to follow the suggestions irresistible "the
great unclean." And the dominant Maud saw him again tantalizing subject to its charm. Stirring around
her submissive and pleading with alternatives to anger and despair
escapes lasted only a short time.

He had thought for a moment freed from such bondage to meet Mina. This young woman sad and sick
is not a danger. Could be near her without altering the balance peace of mind. Mine, with its
sentimental sweetness seemed to embellish the humdrum existence board. It was a relief to
finish the journey with no regrets.

But Maud, as if divining his thoughts and feared a crowd had attacked
from the first time in German.

Ojeda complimented with a cruel irony for their excellent achievement. What luck! The ugliest
woman, poorly dressed the ship ... A sort of governess married to a drunk tune, which they
all said, to the peat of comedians who would with him.

In its relentless mockery did not spare the child: a fat hairy hemp,
the dirtiest all the small fry of the ship.

She hoped to see Fernando as worn on arms made love to the mother. Something to bet that at night
I slept on his knees with accompanying songs and was worried about
changing the undergarments.

With the irritating injustice that can only pique femininity, also poked fun Mina singing. He
had covered his ears one evening cautiously approached the windows of the room, when she was
at the piano and he stood looking at her the same as a tenor ... They said that this unhappy,
as a maidservant, was a beautiful woman and a great artist! ... And all the successes of Ojeda
in the ship were to be inspired such passion! ... Must congratulate you on your good luck. And more
irony, Maud spoke French nasal accent: "Month compliments, mon cher; tous compliments months."

Poor Mina ... Sometimes, talking with Mrs. Fernando Power, had seen pass about them being Karl's
hand. He pretended not to know, twisted eyes, but guess bitterness in his expression of disappointment.
And when Ojeda left alone, she seemed to hide, fleeing to resume
talks.

If walks in the front were covered to face, after briefly Mina pretexts immediate occupancy
or obey the Karl slightest hitch to move forward.

In the eyes of Maud tellers did not escape some beautification of the old artist, a greater care
in the adornment of his person.

- Look, sir, your beloved makes great expense. Today is white from head to toe, a suit pique, ironed
and starched, a true armor. It is elegant as a governess of their land ... Her face is less
green, leaving a trail of smell cheap: have bought powders and perfumes in the salon of the
ship ... And all for you, great conqueror ... There is even new shoes. I do not see the worn heels
before.

And Fernando, in the selfishness of his desire, welcomed these jokes with a cowardly satisfaction.
Were Jealousy springs, which would serve to shew the end Maud less elusive.

That afternoon, the mood she seemed less ironic. The voice, some evening, sounded slowly melancholy,
and his eyes were wet: she shone with a watery corneas excessive
as if they would shed tears.

Occasionally trembled with violent shocks, the same as if an invisible hand tickling my neck.
Caught on the railing, cast bust back, and then approached her to touch his chest. This gymnastics
accompanied by his nervous chatter and conceal a desire to extend the arms and stretch. Interesábase
much over time, which until then had not worried.

Asked missing many days anxious to get to Rio de Janeiro, as though he had been sleeping arise
and wake in his memory the image of someone who was waiting.

- Missing more than six days! - Exclaimed in dismay when they heard
the explanations of Ojeda -.

Today is Sunday, and will not arrive until Saturday. How long! ... Almost a week to see my John
...

And with a jolt felt Fernando in his words a loving great earnestness, a desire vehement bride
returning to her husband's side after the first absence.

In major U.S. cities, business had taken his thinking practice and calculating woman, then in
Paris, was stunned by the gay life of mates.

But now, on the ship and live a life of inertia, with no worries without friends, with long confinement
in the cabin to avoid the treatment of people, the resurgent husband's
image on it with an irresistible novelty, accompanied by tremors long
forgotten.

Plus ... Equatorial heat! Asphyxia that gripped her at certain times of night, pressing his chest,
rattling their ears, developing their eyes closed tape unspeakable visions, interrupted sleep
at last! ... Ah, John! Poor big, how I wanted to see it! ...

Fernando winced to hear her say that staring at the ocean and sleepwalker monotone voice. Nice
role yours! ... And bowing ironically, announced that was going to retire so that alone should think
in the next interview with her husband.

- No, stay - ordered it -.

Time I have to remember it ... Let's talk ... Tell me those words
nice that you know that and they look like comedy exaggerations, lies,
things hidalgo Talking to die if they do not love him.

After that, Ojeda believed to have another woman at his side, as
if he had broken the shell ice after which he had held until then,
ironically, hostile, and the fragments the defense had just broken
something warm and vibrant arise going to him with humility female
yearning to be expired.

He passed them around Germany with his child's
hand. Not looked at them, but the look of Maud was it: a look aggressive,
deadly cholera, which seemed nailed on her back. Fernando recalled
how he saw the other, so were the eyes of Teri when on his travels
inspired him jealousy a companion hotel.

Mrs. Power's eyes, when
they stopped to see Mina, they returned to Fernando with avidity possession.
She smiled hearing the words of his companion, his anguished prayer,
as if you should ask a must for continued existence.

- Maybe tomorrow
... perhaps never - she said smiling his cruel coquetry, which Ojeda
This time it seemed forced, guessing the cold beyond words beginning
with emotion.

Then, as if afraid to lose the serenity and saying
too, was quick to part with Fernando. No one could speak with him
always asking the same thing. Retired to the cabin. Was too bold in
his words, and had to cut the conversation.

- At night talk, if you
wiser ... There is your friend already has company ... Do not you
look so sad. Have confidence in luck ... Who knows ...

And he walked
away laughing, teasing and tantalizing at the same time, while carrying
on approaching Maltrana the linen suit an impermeable layer. He stopped
at a housing space bathed in sun, and stood there, trembling and pale,
with visible pleasure of enjoying the equatorial heat.

- From this
did not happen - he said -. If you want something, approach.

Ojeda
obeyed him, missing the bizarre aspect to that layer provided on the
suit light, trembling with cold and hot sun looking for the ship when
all they felt anxious by stifling temperatures.

- Where did you ...

-
Polo - Maltrana said