 

Whoever named captains INGA MANGO:

SAIR TOPA [Xairi Tupac], that now is in the mountains.

At Illustrious and Most Excellent Lord Don Antonio de Mendoza, Vissorey and Captain General of His Majesty
in the kingdoms and provinces of Peru.

Illustrious and Excellent Sir: Finished to translate and compile a book chripstiana Doctrine is said,
which contains the doctrine chripstiana and two vocabularies, one of words, and other news and whole
sentences and symposia and confisionario, my mind was so tired so tired and my body in six
years of my youth spent in it, I proposed, and had determined between me, not to write or translate
another book of such matters in Indian language, which deals of the facts and natural habits
of these Indians of Peru, for the great work that treats I saw that I was offered and the variety
that was in the report these things, and see how dello conquerors speak differently, and far from what
the Indians used, and I believe it to be, for then, not much is used in Sabella, as in holding
the soil and purchase, and also because, new in the treatment of Indians would not know inquirillo
and preguntallo, lacking the intelligence of the language, and the Indians, fearing they would
not know to whole relationship. Thing might seem easy to write such books, and very hard to please
the reader, for their eyes, conténtanse to be clearly legible the letter, but the delicate
and Grace experienced trial YOUR LORDSHIP funny style and eloquence required soft which now,
for this service and I TO YOU did, in my absence, and history of such matters does not, because
to be true and faithful traducidor, I have Save the manner and order of speaking of the natives.
And coming to the end, I say, in this present escriptura YOUR EXCELLENCY some times used to
leella eyes, which, although not very loud, it was very laborious, the one, because he was
not translated and collected one being reported, but many, and the oldest and credit I found among these
natives, and the other, thinking that was to be offered to Your Excellency. Hame also been
very painful for the little time I had to take care about it, for for the other book of the
Doctrine was necessary to all, and above all have work añadióse to put an end to this book
soon, now that Your Excellency commanded. Names the Incas called CAPACCUNA the Indians, which
in their view means that most do not is or can be, and whose deeds and lives here I write,
the table which will be found at the end of this prologue, if anyone wishes me to reproof on the
subject of this book is something or superfluous to say that I left something out of forgetfulness,
it is no reason, the common Indian speak on a whim or for dreams, for so I usually do, or because
he's such reprendedores they seemed, when informed that the common Indians wanted to say what
they agora claim to have these things, not understanding retamente. Language even in times past,
they knew not inquire and ask what they pretended to know and be informed. Well be trifles and
vanities see what these Indians used and I write here, but, relate them I being sent, I have
to translate as it happened, and so receive me this book please of Your Excellency.

HIS EXCELLENCY: Life and Status of Your Excellency, Our Lord prosper very happiness.

In ancient times, claiming to be the land, and province of Peru dark, and it does not had light
or day. He had at this time some people in it, which some people had Lord who commanded it and
whom it was subjective. The name of this people and the Lord that ordered not agree. And in
these times that this land was all night, say they went a gap that is in this land of Peru
in the province of Collasuyo say, a Lord callers with Tici Viracocha, which they say have brought
with them a number of people, which number does not agree. And since this had gone Desta lagoon,
and went from there to a Site forests near this lake, Quest where today is a village called
Tiaguanaco in this province and that the Collao, and as there was him and his family, then
suddenly there say who made the sun and day, and that the sun sent who walked the course walk,
and then say who made the stars and moon.