 Since then, neither
a moment's hesitation, more and more convinced every day that this world was worthless, and
that out of this world had to wait otherwise. Death of his father and confessed with remorse not sorry.
Treat anxiety and breathed the air of freedom. There was a time when Life seemed less horrible,
the world had for him a sweet smile. It was when the well filled pocket, he went to Madrid.
First science offered comfort and entertainment. Caught up with avidity the latest ideas in philosophy, history,
science natural alternated, discussed with the most eminent men of Spain. And he had the satisfaction
to observe that there in his solitude of rocks, meditating on the ancient books had reached
the same results as the modern philosophers. Then came love, a dream sweet and heady, pungent
and divine music that was suspended some time on misery of the land, which reconciled him
to life and woke up in their hearts the hope infinite the illusion of immortal bliss. The
fall of that world of light, happy, smiling, was Cruel indeed, one of the blackest pages in recorded
history of mankind, where there are so black! ...

- By the way - leaving said his ecstasy painful skeletal hand from
the front - I've had enough time to seriously those things that you
believe.

I had a hard time pain, many sleepless nights, many tears separate from them. Let me return
you so many tears I laugh a little now.

- So - said the priest shaking badly repressed - that, forgetting
entirely beliefs you sucked, the holy religion of their parents, declaring
you an enemy of God ...

- Yes, sir, the enemy of God and men ...
That is, unfortunately I can not God so, does not exist.

If there is, judging by his work, God would be a good evil. Can not be of God, I am of the men not
to harm but to flee them as they flee from the ferocious beasts.

Since I was born I have been experiencing many pain. However, I never tried to get back at them
because I know they are evil because it has created Nature or Fate, they hurt as do the beasts,
for selfishness that rages within every living being. The world is organized to devour beings
to each other. What happens between fish passes among men, only that we do not open your mouth
and swallow us hit the victim, which, after all, is an advantage for her, but we're eating
small bites, ripping the flesh until it a skeleton ... Can not you see me for me? - Added with
a smile on his face fierce pointing .-- The I have eaten fish that get it. I have left nothing
but bones.

Fr Gil, more and more terrified, dared to ask:

- And you think that there is on earth no man righteous, no virtuous
woman?

- Yes there are, but they are exceptional products of nature,
rather, are aberrations a body set up to evil.

Good men suffer the consequences of any aberration; can not survive.
