 

Valentina, yet very disturbed, began to tie it.

- I threw a lot, and, to untie, jabbed me with the pin that holds
the tape up ... The poor Gonzalo not managed very well to atármelo,
right? - Said laughing.

- Oh, no! - Said the young man with a forced
smile, in awe of that coolness.

The apology, however well devised, not strained. Val was quite sure what he had seen.

- Do you think it will have swallowed the stick? - Gonzalo asked anxiously
when he had out.

- Perhaps not, but there is careful with her.

It is the quietest of all.

Valentina was to give employers the lady and said goodbye until the
next day.

Al cross the corridor clearly heard the sound of a kiss.

He looked to the dark room there was, and thought he saw the black
and white checkered dress Nieves.

- Boost!

It is hot! - Muttered that frown saladísimo that both characterized.

He went downstairs and out into the street, where and Cosme expected
to accompany her to her home.

VIII

THAT THE MEETING HELD ON SARRIA Procera THEATER ROOM WITH STATE ASSISTANCE

On June 9, 1860, must be marked with letters of gold in the annals of the town of Sarrió.

To this day, relieved by Alvaro Peña and his son Paul, had asked Rosendo Belinchón through BLM
attentive to their neighbors who attended the afternoon to the local theater. It would be a matter
of "vital (for anything in the world is to escape the vital Rosendo)
interest to the village and its council Sarrió.

" Only four or five of the most required the merchant, knew the noble and patriotic thinking that
motivated the call. So which pulled out of curiosity, as well as courtesy, went to three o'clock
all those invited, and many more who had no sailing at the funeral. Theatre filled chock. The
principal people seized the seats and boxes. The common people rose
in the pot. On stage he had placed a writing table old and dirty.
A both of sides of it half a dozen chairs, no more new or cleaner,
which served for the decoration of "probremente furnished room."

The
theater was boiling and people. The stage was still wilderness. They
were almost in darkness. Just for a powdered glass skylight open there
in the back of the stage, stripped the backdrop, very low penetrating
clarity. By dint of time, eyes accustomed to darkness, could be distinguished
from each other