 

Babuca met since it was Scythian and sent by a genius, but if time stopped in Persepolis, Teona
would make him forget Ituriel. Affection took the city whose neighbors were friendly, courteous
and beneficial, but gossips, frivolous and vain. He feared it was doomed and Persepolis, and even
feared the bill that would give. So to give it did the following: statutory command to the best
of people, who founded a small statue, made of all metals, and land and most precious stones and
more vile, and it took Ituriel. ? You will make pieces, said to him, this beautiful statue, it is not
all gold and diamonds? Ituriel comprehended the emblem, and was determined not to seek to amend or even
to Persepolis, and dexar that walked the world as it goes, "If all is not well, at least everything
is tolerable. Persisted as Persepolis, and Babuca was far from complaining, as did Jonas is angry
because it was not destroyed Nineveh. True, who has spent three days in the belly of a whale,
do not spend such a good mood as he has been in the works, in comedy, and has fine dining with people
deal. End Babuca vision.

* * * * * Memnon, or sanity HUMAN.

       

He placed on the head one day Memnon the wrongheaded idea of ​​being
completely sane, that few men there who has not crossed my mind like
crazy.

Memnon went thus: To be very sane and very happy consequeencia, simply
drag dexarse ​​no passions: something very easy, as everyone knows.

First, I will never love any woman, and in dire finished watching
a beauty inside me: One day is the face wrinkling, plump and round
the chest has to turn soft and straight, the head is well populated
to stay bald, and I just look at now as I see then, that pretty head
that does not make me lose mine.

Secondly, I will always be sober, but I tempted by the candy, exquisite wines, and the incentive
of society. I is listed the result of gluttony, the charged head, stomach upset, loss of reason,
health and time, and so only eat what they need, I will enjoy sound health, and will always clear
and bright ideas. This thing is so easy, it is not worthwhile to get away with it. Then continued
Memnon, one must not neglect their flow: my desires are moderate, I have my money I produce good yields
and good bonds held by the treasurer general of Nineveh, and I need to live without depending
on anyone, which is the more fortunate, because I never see you in
the cruel precision of going to kiss the hands of courtiers, no one
will envy, and no one I'll be envied, if not more easy.

I have friends, he said finally, and he remains, because never makes bad third; not ever be angry
with me, nor I with them: this is offered not in difficulty. Formed so its planecico of moderation
and hike for its fourth, is Memnon hint to the window and saw two ladies
who went through streets of bananas, which had immediate home.

It was old one, and not afflicted apparently nothing, the other girl
was cute and had traces of being very sorry, sighed, and wept, and
that it gave him more grace.

Hastened away much of our wisdom, not the beauty of the lady (he was sure not to surrender to this
weakness), but if by the despair in which the track. Baxo, and approached the young Ninevites,
with the intention of giving wise consolation.