 All things considered, damn jembras need to make it here, where so many existing
ones looks like a school. But music and came up over my head! And dance land and dance, grip
and the gentry. You see that gun tonight, Mr. Fermin.

And Dupont went to the city in his carriage, who stirs up the road with the noise of their bells.
He returned late at night, a summer night, warm, without the slightest
hiciese breeze shook the atmosphere.

The earth gave off a burning mist, the sky blue dye diluted in white, the stars seemed clouded by
the fog caliginosa. In the silence of the night sounded the creaking of the strains to expand its
crust cracked by heat.

The cicada screaming furious grooves, scorched earth, the frog was snoring in the distance,
as if we disclose lack of freshness of the pond.

Dupont's companions, in shirt sleeves, lined up under the arches of the innumerable bottles
brought from Jerez.

The women, dressed lightly with only a calico skirt, showing her bare arms below the handkerchief
across his chest, took charge of the baskets of provisions, admiring them with praise for the
pompous gentleman. The foreman praised the quality of meats and olives, which served to excite
the thirst.

- Menu Jumer prepares us sir! - Said laughing like a patriarch.

The great dinner in the middle of the esplanade, which most attracted
the admiration of the people was wine.

Ate standing men and women, and having a hand-full glass, advanced
to a table occupied by the gentleman, the master and his daughter,
who gave birth to two lamps.

The red flames, smoky tongue that rose in the stillness of the night
without the slightest tremor, transparency illuminated golden wine.

But what was it? ... And again all to savor after admiring its beautiful color, and opened his
eyes wide with amazement grotesque rummaging through the words as if they could not express all
the reverence that they instilled the portentous liquid.

- Eztoo and the tears of Jezu own - said one devoutly flicking tongue.

- No - replied others - is the mezmízima Mare milk and gave ...

And
the gentleman laughed, enjoying his surprise.

It was wine from the "Dupont Brothers' wine venerable and expensive that only drank mislores
back in London. Each drop was worth a quarter. Don Pablo liked him as a treasure, and was likely
to be indignant to learn of the devastation who had made his stunned relatives.

But Louis did not regret his generosity.

Glad you crazy miserable with the flock rich wine. He was a Roman patrician pleasure, intoxicated
customers and slaves with a drink of emperors.

- Drink, my children - said to take the advantage .-- paternal tone, which you never see in
another. Many gentlemen of the Horse I envy.

Do you know what they are worth all those bottles? A capital: it is more expensive than champagne,
each bottle costs do not remember how hard.

And the miserable people threw on wine, and drank and drank greedily,
as if they entered the mouth was the fortune.

In the Master table, the bottles were served after a long stay in tanks filled with ice. The
wine passed through the mouth leaving her numb with paralysis grata freshness.

- We're going to get drunk - the foreman said sententiously .-- This is without feeling strained.
Is soda in the mouth and fire in the gut.

But I kept filling the glass in between bites, savoring the cold nectar
and envying the rich who could afford the pleasure of God daily.

Maria de la Luz drank so much like his father. Just emptied his glass, rushed the gentleman to
fill.

- Do not throw more, Luis - pleaded .-- Look I'm going to get drunk. This drink is a traitor.

-
Silly, if you're like water! If you ajumeres though, this happens soon! ...

When dinner ended, the guitars sounded and people formed a circle,
sitting on the floor to the chairs occupied by the musicians and the
young gentleman with his people.

Everyone was drunk but they were drinking. BASC! Erizábase skin of sweat, the breasts are dilated,
as if they did not find air. Wine and more wine! For heat there was no remedy more successful:
Andalusia was the real soda.

Clapping about, and bumping other empty bottles, as if they were toothpicks,
jalearon Seville's famous Maria de la Luz and Master.

She danced in the middle of the circle in front Luis, with flushed cheeks and a luster in the
eyes.

Had never seen her dance so furiously and with such grace.

Her bare arms of pearl-pale, elevábanse around the head, as mother of pearl handles voluptuous roundness.
Calico skirt between the fru-fru, which marked the highlight of their lovely legs, left see
below its border small feet, footwear carefully, like a lady.

-
Ay! Not pueo more! - Said suddenly drowned out by the dance.

And he fell breathless on a chair, feeling that with the excitement of dance, beginning shooting
all around it, the square, people and even the great tower of Marchamalo.

-
That's er heat - the father said gravely.

- A bit of soda and you
will - added Luis.

We had a full cup of this liquid gold, crowned with bubbles, which marred the crystal with its
freshness.

And Ladybug drank eagerly, with a raging thirst, wanting to renew the feeling of freshness in
your mouth as if he had been fire burning in the stomach. From time to when he protested.

- Because I am going to get drunk, Luis. That I think I am.

- And what - exclaimed the Master .-- I am also drunk, and your father,
and all are.

That is what the party. Another drink. Olé, my girl, brave! Follow the fun!

Dancing in the middle of the circle some girls, with clumsy peasant, facing the tenants no less rustic.

-
It is not worth ná - cried the gentleman .-- Out, out! Let's see, Master Eagle - continued,
addressing the toilet manor .-- A dance in style. A polka, a waltz, whatever. Let to dance as
thin people caught.

The girls, perplexed by the wine, he caught one another and fell into the arms of young tenants.
Everyone started to turn, to the sound of the guitar. The foreman and acolytes of Don Luis, accompanied
by empty bottles crashing rhythm or beat the ground with their staffs, laughing like children in this
musical ability.

Maria de la Luz she was driven with the gentleman, who grabbed her hand, holding the same time by
the waist. The girl refused to dance. Turning, when his head was swing and everything revolved around
her eyes!

... But at last she left, giving a your partner.

Luis was sweating, exhausted by the inertia of the girl. Weight What
a girl!

Pressing this limp body, his chest felt the contact of elastic bumps. Mariquita left dropped his
head on his shoulder, as if unwilling to do, overcome by dizziness. Only once Luis stood to
watch, eyes shining in a distant spark of rebellion and protest.

-
Let go, Rafa: This is not right.

Dupont laughed.

- So Raphael ... Oh how funny and how is the girl! If I'm Luis! ...

The girl folded her head again, as if he did not understand the words
of the master.

He felt increasingly overwhelmed by the wine and movement. With eyes closed and thinking spinning,
as an idler, believed to be suspended in a vacuum, in a murky pit, no other support than those
arms man. If let go, fall and fall without ever touching background: and instinctively grabbed
her bra.

Luis was no less embarrassed than their partners. Breathing stifled by the weight of the girl.
Trembled with cool, soft touch of her arms, with the scent of healthy
beauty, which seemed jet arise voluptuous neckline of her chest.

The breath of his lips goose skin neck, spreading a shiver through his body ... When overwhelmed
by fatigue, Mariquita returned to his seat, the girl was wobbling, pale, with eyes closed.
Sigh, we had a hand to his forehead, as if you ache.

Meanwhile, the couples danced on the floor with a mad uproar, colliding with each other, intentionally
pushing with encounters that almost overthrew the audience, making remove the chairs.

Two young men started insulting him, pulling each arm of the same
girl.

Wine his eyes gleamed with fire murder, and eventually go to the
home of wineries in search of the shears, short and heavy machetes
killed at once.

The gentleman blocked their way.

What was it to kill himself by dancing with a girl, when many were
waiting for a partner?

Shut up and play. And he forced them to join hands to drinking together in the same cup.

The music stopped. All looked anxiously toward the side of the esplanade where there were the fray.

-
Follow the fun - Dupont ordered as a tyrant kind .-- Here nothing
has happened.

Music rang again, resumed dancing couples, and the gentleman turned to run. The Mariquita chair was empty.
He looked around and saw the girl in the whole square.

Mr. Fermin was engrossed watching the hands of Pacorro the Eagle,
with admiration guitarist.

Nobody had seen in his retreat to Maria de la Luz.

Dupont entered the house of the wineries, walking softly, pushing the door with a soft Cat without
knowing why.

Recorded rooms foreman anyone.

Thought he had found the bedroom door closed Mariquita, but it gave the first impulse. The bed
was empty and the whole room in order, as if nobody had entered. Just alone in the kitchen.
Groping crossed the vast room that served as a dormitory for workers. Not a soul! Then stuck
his head in the department of wineries.

Diffuse sky light, streaming through the windows, projected spots on the floor in dim light. Dupont,
in this silence, he thought he heard the sound of breathing, the faint stir of someone lying
on the ground.

Advanced.

His feet stumbled on a burlap and a body on them. Kneeling to see better, guessed by touch, rather
than the eyes, Maria de la Luz, who had refuge there. No doubt the repugnant hide in your room,
in such a shameful state.

At the touch of the hands of Luis, seemed to awaken the flesh steeped in the lethargy of intoxication.
Adorable body stirred, his eyes sparkled for a moment, struggling
to stay open, and muttered something burning mouth with the ear of
the master.

He thought he heard:

- Rafael ... Rafa ...

But he said no more.

Bare arms crossed over the neck of Luis.

Maria de la Luz fell and fell into the black hole of unconsciousness, and in falling he clutched
desperately to this support, it concentrated all his will, leaving the rest of callous neglect
your body.

VIII

In early January, the workers' strike had spread across the field Jerez. The farmhands of the estates
made common cause with the tenants. Owners fields like in the winter months were not important
agricultural work circumvented without impatience the conflict.

- I surrender - saying .-- The winter is hard and very hungry.

In the vineyards, the care of the strains were made by foremen and laborers closest the owner,
braving the anger of the strikers, who are accused of treason, threatening with collective revenge.

Rich people, despite their arrogance, revealed some fear.

As was customary in her had been speaking to the Madrid newspaper strike of Jerez, with dark blackening
color, swelling, like a national calamity.

Rulers was censured by his abandonment, but with such outbursts of urgency, not seemed as though
every rich man was besieged in his home, defending himself against a crowd shot ravenous and ferocious.
The government, as usual, had sent armed forces to cut cries of these
beggars of authority and came to Jerez new civil guard forces, two
infantry companies and a squad line joining the tank riders sire.

Decent people, as called Louis Dupont, smiling with bliss to see on the streets many red pants.
In his ears sounded like the best of music entrainment of sabers
on the sidewalk, and into their casinos are seeing widening the soul
around tables uniforms of the officers.

Those who weeks earlier stunned the government with their lamentations,
as if they were to die beheaded by those mobs who remained in the
countryside, with folded arms, not daring to Sign in Jerez, arrogant
and boastful now showed themselves to the cruelty.

Laughed the gloomy expression of the strikers, their eyes, which had the hunger and unhealthy
squint despair.

In addition, the authorities believed time to be imposed by fear, and the civil guard pinned
to those contained in the forefront of workers' associations.

Entered daily people in jail.

- Pass and forty who are in the shadows - saying the best informed in the gatherings.

- When there are one or two hundred, this will be like a mill pond.

At midnight, the Lords, leaving the casino, women were huddled in
shabby shawls or skirt at the top, they tended hand.

- Lord, we do
not eat .... Lord, that we kill the swarm ... I have three churumbeles,
and my Mary, with that of the juelga, does not bring bread home.

The gentlemen laughed, quickening the pace. To be given them put Salvatierra and other preachers. And
looked almost loving sympathy to the soldiers who passed through
the street.

- Cursed you be you, gentlemen!

"- The miserable females roared in despair Want .-- God that one
day we send the probes ...

Montenegro Fermín sadly watched the course
of this silent struggle that would end bound with a bit noisy, but
from a distance, avoiding dealing with the rebels, since no Jerez
was his teacher Salvatierra.

Also silent on the desktop, when in his presence demonstrating Don
Pablo's Friends cruel desires of repression that terrorizes workers.

Since he had returned from Manchester, his father saw him once he
does not recommend the prudence.

Should keep quiet, at last, they ate the bread of Dupont, and was not a noble join with the
desperate, but they complained with much reason.

In addition, for Mr. Fermin all human aspirations are summed up in
Don Fernando Salvatierra, and it was absent.

Madrid kept him under constant vigilance not to return to Andalusia. And the foreman Marchamalo,
missing his Don Fernando, considered the strike devoid of interest, and the strikers as an army
without a leader and without a flag, a horde necessarily decimated
and had to be sacrificed for the rich.

Fermín obeyed his father, staying in a prudent reserve.

Left unanswered peer teasing desktop, knowing his friendship with Salvatierra, to flatter the
master taunted the rebels.

Avoid presenting in the Plaza Nueva, where they met in groups of
strikers in the city, still, silent, with looks of hatred following
the gentlemen who intentionally went there with his head held high
and an expression of challenge in the eye.

Montenegro stopped thinking about the strike, attracted to other matters of interest.

One day, when you leave your desk for lunch at the guest house where
he was found the overseer of Matanzuela.

Rafael seemed to wait sitting in the corner of the square, headed occupied wineries Dupont. Fermin
had not seen in a long time. I was somewhat disfigured, with gaunt
features and sunken eyes in a dark fence.

Her dress was dirty field dust carried it carelessly, as if it forgot that arrogance that made
him be considered the most elegant and nice for the riders rustic.

-
But you're sick, Rafael?

What's wrong? - Montenegro said.

- Penalties - laconically said the overseer.

- Last Sunday did not see you in Marchamalo, and the other either. Are you sulking with my sister?
...

- I have to talk to you, but many long, long mu! - Rafael said.

There in the square could not be, in the guest house either, because what the overseer wanted
say was to be kept secret.

- Okay - Fermin said jokingly, to guess that this was punishment for
love .-- But as I have to eat, sad creature! we will go home and there
disgorge Mountaineer all those penilla drown you, while I do it for
life.

Mountaineer at the grocery store, going against the fourth largest in the hotel, heard guitar
strumming, clapping and screaming women.

- The Master Dupont - the waiter told them - that is with some friends and a wonderful jembra
has been brought from Seville.

Now the fun begins ... Fabric is cut at least until tomorrow!

The two friends searched the room farthest to the din of the party
is not interrupted conversation.

Montenegro ordered his food, and
the servant put the table in that tiny room, smelling of wine, and
therefore diminished, like a cabin. Shortly after he returned with
a large pan full of reeds. It was a gift of Don Luis.

- The Master
- said the waiter - was aware that they are here, and I sent it. In
addition, can you take what you like, everything is paid.

Fermín
announced entrusted to Don Luis would happen to him so he finishes
his meal, and closing the cabin door was left alone with Rafael.

-
Come on, man - said, pointing to the dishes: - please thereof.

-
I do not like - said Rafael.

- Do not you eat? Oops ... air will
pass as all lovers ... But it does drink drink?

Rafael made a gesture
as superfluous missing the question. And without looking up the table,
began to rush furiously rods before him.

- Fermin - he suddenly looked
at his friend with red eyes .-- I'm crazy ... crazy lost.

- I can
see - Montenegro replied coolly, while eating.

- Fermin paece a demon
blows my ear the most terrible things. If your father was my godfather,
and if you, you were not a few days ago that would kill your sister,
Mary LU. I swear by it by my best mate, the only inheritance from
my father.

He opened with a crash of a razor handle springs old,
fiercely kissing smooth sheet, colored drawings by rust-red.

- Man,
it will be something less - Montenegro said staring at his friend.

He
had dropped his fork, and a cloud passed over his face red. But this
hostile gesture lasted only an instant.

- Bah! - He said - yes you
are crazy, and more so is the case then you.

Rafael began to mourn.
Finally, his eyes could give way to tears that rushed to them, and
sliding down her cheeks fell in wine.

- Is true, Fermin, I'm crazy.
Loose bravado y. .. na: I am a weakling. See how I be, a lad beat
me. What I have to kill a ladybug? I wish I had black guts to that.
Then I'd kill you, and toos at rest.

The distant strumming of the
guitar and vocals that cut its rate, cheering the heels of a dancer,
seemed to accompany the fall of the tall boy's tears.

- But, let's
see - Fermin said impatiently .-- What is that? Speech, and ceases
to mourn, you look like a blessed in the Holy Burial Procession. What's
wrong with Ladybug? ...

- Who does not love me! - Cried the desperate
accent overseer .-- That you do not listen to me! That Quie have broken
and not me! ...

Montenegro smiled. And that was it? Contention of
boyfriends; whim of girl who gets angry to encourage the monotony
of a long engagement! Happen and bad wind. He knew what hearsay. He
expressed his skepticism with young hands, the English, as he said,
enemy of the perfect love affair that lasted years and were one of
the traditions of the land. He had known he was not dating anyone
at Jerez. He was content to take what they could, good, from time
to time to satisfy their desires.

- That it always appreciates the
body - continued .-- But so fine relations with sighs, penalties and
celillos, never! I need time for other things.

Y Fermín, mocking
tone, trying to console his friend. That would slump. Caprichos of
women who get angry sulking and pretending to want them more! The
day least expected, would see Maria de la Luz go to him, saying that
it was all a joke to test their love, and she loved him more than
before.

But the strapping young man shook his head negatively.

-
No, not like me. This is over and I'm going to die.

Montenegro was
telling how his love had ended. She called one night to talk on the
fence, and with a voice and gesture, whose memory still shuddered
at the poor lad, he announced it was all over between them. Christ
and what news to receive, out of the blue!

Rafael clung to the bars
to avoid falling. Then there was everything from pleas, threats, tears;
but she remained inflexible, with a smile that was afraid and refused
to continue affairs. Ah, women! ...

- Yes, my son - said Fermin .--
A drag. Although this is my sister, I do exception. So I took them
what they need and shun the deal ... But what excuse did you Mariquita?
...

- That he does not like me, who has suddenly apagao that I had