 I come to tell you that forgive
me, because I love you. I want you to know: I'm sorry and I Having A fired die for you and I
can not live without you.

What could I do but brag Don Paco, tender, melt and forgive all to hear so sweet and passionate
phrases so pretty and rosy lips?

I did not know yet what to say or do, and as usually happens on such occasions, said quite
a few silly.

- I can hardly believe it - he said - do not fix it and in my old
age, do not think I can be Your grandfather and I want as you say.

Do you mean, perhaps, make fun of me and upset me trial? Do you offer flatter with the hope of a happiness
that I would not dare conceive in dreams, to kill and then vanishes?

- No, darling, I do not want to fade away your hope, but do it. I want to give you happiness if
you judge me to be happy on yours. If you do not despise me, if you'll excuse me, if I do not
think worthless, get married, but Dona Ines rave that I am not a nun, but you don Andrés withdraw
its favor, even if we make it impossible to stay in this town and
although we to go out there, perhaps to live miserably.

            Do not hesitate, if it
          were possible that Don
          Andres fell in love
          with me to the point of wanting to marry me, I despise him for love
of you, even if you were you a thousand times poorer than you are,
I sing the verse that says:

Better a tried fuss and some peppers
asaos not have your honor esaborío to Lao.

Don Paco, on hearing this, and could barely contain himself and hide
his emotion.

A delicious shiver stirred his veins, as if they run light and fire instead of blood. Nearly lie
to Juanita and kiss his feet, but still reported and said:

- I believe, believe in your sincerity of the moment. My modesty, however, leads me to fear maybe
you hallucinate, perhaps you fool yourself that you might regret
the way you take now.

You are so beautiful that you can covet as you fancy.

And Don Andrés no unsubscription is your honor like the song, is an intelligent, esteemed
and respected by All: better and much younger than me.

- It will be all you want, but to me you are the smartest, the youngest and most handsome.

Still, shielded by his humility, he tried to hide Don Paco was already
satisfied, had deposed their anger and their fears were dispelled.

Less seriously, smiling and between truly and ridicule, he said;

- I trust you, I know you speak from the heart. No, do not fool me think, but certainly you fool
yourself. And for more proof to the vehemence and firmness of love Juanita, then added:

- It's unlikely that you, if you don Andrés, as seems apparent, is very much in love with you,
you I despise and want and love me now, when before, you did not
have to don Andrés, was me whom he despised.

Why, do not know that I am a poor devil, "dependent" and He is powerful,
rich, respected and feared here, esteemed and favored by the government
and a Gentleman large cross with excellence and everything?

- What
I care about excellence?

To you and not the government should give him the Grand Cross, because all the good that is
done in this place is you who does.

He paused and continued with
a sweet smile, as if he suddenly has an idea he likes:

- This remedy
injustice I want, but you need before and I swear I proclaim for your
queen