 Start
the discomfort, but a slight discomfort. What so good that poison that kills quietly! Suddenly it seems
that blurs your vision. Open your eyes and see everything black. Nor hears and birds are singing
far away, as if in the Puerta del Sol .. And then panic the rush so fast that stands up and says:
"I'll call? Ask for help? It's horrible ... And die! ... Alas, and sin !...». Hiding his face in
his hands makes determination not to call. What, what is it a comedy? Then feels fade ...
ideas you are going, you will be thinking all, you will be the heartbeat of the blood, whole
life, pain and knowledge, feel and fear, fainting, falls asleep dies ... "Virgen del Carmen - think
the last thought that escapes - take me ...!».

XXXV

No one knows why fixed point came through in the spirit of that
good knight the suspicions, and after something that confirmed suspicions,
news, data and references.

It is believed Torres was the call he took the story from the desktop Costanilla Mompous, and
that will transport Mompous Catalan accent then the Knight's own ears, justifying with adequate
reasons to the case ... It was moved from friendship to put on guard. Perhaps was slander, but
as the kind he ran, it was appropriate to notify the most interested in this for the honor of his name
etc ... The impression that these revelations were made in the confident lover can make you know
how these pages, or because you really have treaty. That man looks so quiet easily passed a
gloomy dejection a childish rage. Rosalia was afraid when he saw him enter that evening three hours
after Amparo having gone to his house, past the scene of fainting. It was Monday afternoon.

Briefly
Augustine told his cousin what he had said, and putting a color incredible, clenching his teeth
and hands, said: "If you lie, the dog I invented it has to pay. "

"Come, come, calm down, for God's sake ...-- said Rosalie -. If you get like ... if you obfuscate,
may see things blacker than they are. In these severe cases everyone should behave as she
is, and you are a decent and thoughtful gentleman.

"

- By your way of speaking - without relent Augustine said - I come
to understand that you also you know ... and this is the time when
neither you nor Bringas You told me a word, at least to put me on
notice.

- About Us - replied the lady with haughty dignity - not
we always talk about what we are not interested, or give advice to
whom we do not ask.

What we wanted to take risks desconceptuar to a person in our family, we gave you when such
a death blow and when we had no security of fact, nor could we give evidence? ... Understand,
son, this is serious ... And say one thing: when you set it to be
your wife "We inquired of us on this delicate point, as seemed natural?

Not so. Beyond you fix it alone, and when we realize it and had it very well cooked and eaten.

In
saying this and what followed, anyone, who carefully observed Rosalia, could have caught in it, along
with the desire to convince his cousin, no less alive to demonstrate their beauty, enhanced on
this occasion for the care of clothing and dressings and ornaments of great opportunity. How
he taught his white teeth, outlining how your neck, how stood to give his slender body swathed
momentary well, were details that you and I reader friend would have noticed, but not Caballero,
the situation of his mind.

"And do not think - said Rosalie with a sad countenance -, we have come to the soul not consulted
us a matter that could compromise your honor ... You have not had in mind what you want, what we
care about you. "

- I see it - Augustine said with sudden start, and regardless of the
tenderness of premium -.

The first thing is to hear what she says.

- I think you're wasting your time if you go home, - said Rosalie
going diligently to contain natural one - boot.

Not find it. I know you will not find ...

Knight looked at her as parallel.

"I have reason to know, and I say no more - he added with studied
coolness of Bringas -.
