 Calixto, gentle boy, rich
and noble, enters looking for a hawk, on the grounds of the proud and beautiful girl Melibea; love
with her, the need for love, and offended the lady in her modesty and pride, rough and crudely dismissed
him. Melibea and Callisto are both the same high status and the birth, for the gifts of fortune.
Among the families of both are not known to have enmity, as there was, say, between the families
of Romeo and Juliet. Neither difference class or religion, or the divided country. Why, then, did not
seek a person Calixto honored to intercede for him and the diversion of Melibea expires, and why
not then asked their parents and married her in peace and God's grace? Search for third Calixto
his love to a witch empecatada darning of wills and teacher of women of bad life, has something
monstrous that neither in the fifteenth century or any century, includes not being Calixto vicious
and evil and feeling very tender and poetic love.

Everything is understood, however, considering the Celestina tragicomedy as the first creation of a
new literary era in which fit certain inspired daring: an ideal scene, free conditions and requirements
and devoid of any nuisance and it does not appear to vague and confusing the characters, but
rather, to be more distinct and specific see, as figures are in high top and are highlighted
and drawn in the serene blue of cloudless sky. The arrows of love on the hearts hurt and rob
of the two lovers, do not break means weakens the initial momentum of his career, and there
is attraction of the earth or the sky that stops or on request. Fernando de Rojas disregards anything
but love, to express that love with all his strength and shine in all its glory. And is not
the love of souls, nor the love of the senses, captive of material beauty, but so tight and
intimate combination of the two lovers, no analysis to separate its elements, appearing as complicated
love with the irreducible simplicity the purest gold and pure.

Or what we now call social conventions, as existing in the fifteenth
century as in the day, nor required by the customs and laws, moral
or religion taken into account here.

Very licentious had to be that age where all dreams of chivalry of the Middle Ages, disquisitions
of the Court of passionate love and tenderness of the heroes of Table Redonda, of Lancelot and
Guinevere, Tristan and Isolde, mingled with the yearning for life and joys and the worship of beauty
yearning plastic that paganism had risen woken up and moved. This no doubt seething souls such
as musts in Cuba during tumultuous fermentation.

In short, Calixto and Melibea adore and is not hyperbole or rhetorical figure, but worship effective.
Out of his love do not see anything or nothing left.

Not recognize sin and there is room for repentance or amendment. Fate, in the midst of pleasure
and the glory of them; leads to tragic death, but in this very tragic death there are some grim
and gloomy, but there are some success. There is a high end of what Mr. Menéndez y Pelayo in another
recent letter of his, on Torres Propaladia Nahas, called the triumphant joy Spanish Renaissance.

Dead
Calixto, Melibea thrown from the top of a tower and is killed, but the bliss achieved and enjoyed
by both partners in their mutual and ardent embraces, is a light of glory which surrounds and provided
to the tragic, perhaps against the author's reflexive intention,
character of apotheosis.

So it is futile in my opinion, the purpose was Fernando de Rojas or supposed he had, to indoctrinate the
young lovers to not servants ISAF immoral and perverse flattering and mediators as Celestina.

The
humorous candor with which the writers of the old church often seek reason or excuse to justify
their compositions on gallant, cops and readers today wakes up in his mind the doubt whether
indeed they deceive in assuming that purpose or if you would claim as a joke. Notable example of
this gives the beneficiary Fernando Suarez, natural Seville and translator
of the Symposium of the ladies of Peter Aretino, book reprinted a
few days ha in Madrid by Mr. B. Rodríguez Serra.

Holds in all seriousness the beneficiary and translator than it does to moralize the world, which
so perverted walked in at that time as remote age in which God sent the flood to punish him.
But divine justice as understood by the beneficiary, does not like to repeat, but change and
invent new punishment when there are new sins. And so, instead of a flood, had sent in his time a
contagious disease which did great damage, and on which he wrote an elegant Fracastoro Latin
poem dedicated to Cardinal Bembo. Since this is, I can not find, nor do I think no one can accurately
explain that there are very helpful reminders for youths and antidote against the poison of sensuality
in a very shameless sets the ladies Colloquium concerned. Would you talk of fun, or really talk
about the benefit in holding that his book morigeraría young people better than the Milky
joyful spirit or the Ascent of Mount Zion, books they throw away without reading the title as
they found out?

Fernando de Rojas had, or imagines he had, in order to indoctrinate youth and departing vice.
If proved otherwise might well say that Fernando de Rojas benefited says, "that if young people
here take occasion of sin, guilt that is not of this work, but our poor condition, which, as very corrupt
stomach, medicine that is given to health makes it bad moods. "

Leaving aside our morals, so do not go wrong stop on this issue rather than be victorious,
and regardless of lawlessness also unlikely that serves basis for the love of Melibea and Calixto,
we may say that in all the details of tragicomedy is so stunning realism and expressed so well
observed and character painting and affections, not Spanish critics who could blind patriotic vanity,
but the most eminent critics of other countries, such as Gervinus
in his History of Poetry German, estimate the influence of La Celestina
in the novel and the drama of the modern age and understand that until
the appearance of Shakespeare was not deep in the earth observer or
more skilled painter of the human soul that the bachelor Fernando
de Rojas.

His characters all Celestina, Sempronius and Parmeno, Elicia, and the admirable Areusa Centurio
boastful pimp, are master hand painted and do and say what they owe. If all too quote the
classics, long on each step of the Philosophers and pedantic sentences with innocent refinement,
is so characteristic defect that time that more than grace and elegance defect seems the book and
provides indelible temporary color.

Fernando de Rojas does not very appropriate delicacies, inspired by or reflective. Passion Calixto
Melibea and can not be more vehement. The delight of possession arises in both could not be uploaded.
And with all that, the happiness of both, which the reader penetrates wrapped in clean, discreet
veil, without the author discovers the profane. The erotic detail keeps the author and used for
the scenes, events and meetings the secondary and commoners lovers; of Parmeno and Areusa, for
example.

Neat would be to highlight here the main beauties of La Celestina.

My article extend far beyond the dimensions in this paper is granted. Even finishing here, you
may be accused of having gone too. Oh my apology for the popularity that the most glorious century
Spain had so beautifully reprinted tragicomedy now: which became popular in the more aesthetic
value licentiousness of the case. Enough novels in dialogue, imitating that of Fernando de
Rojas, wrote later: some very remarkable elegance and grace of language, wit and jokes, and
leaving far behind La Celestina in its carefree vegetables.

La Comedia Serafina, also reprinted a few years was by Mr. Marquis of Valle and D. Fuensanta
José Sancho Rayon, testifies it. And yet, and Serafina Comedy, Comedy Selvagia and as many in the
same genre were composed, they have no low literary gem, which I have tried high price to recall
today on the occasion to display it again D. Eugenio Krapf as as correct and luxurious.

LIBRARY OF PHILOSOPHY AND SOCIOLOGY

Under the title as above expressed, Mr. DB Rodríguez Serra has begun publishing a collection of
books on philosophy, and that that ugly word, and hybrid call now sociology. Are published
only three volumes, but I, although poorly understood issues philosophical, like them a lot, I
did not slow my welcome to the aforementioned library, wishing you the best possible success
with our audience in Spain.

In the history of science first, and the history of every culture
have been written not a few books on foreign soil and in recent times.

The French, British and German, rightly or wrongly, have been dealt the most brilliant papers,
and attributed almost all philosophically fertile, our poor nation has proved sterile or nearly
sterile during the last four centuries, perhaps because of the Inquisition, our fierce intolerance
or our inability to things so sublime.

Filled with gloom humble us, we agreed for now the decision without protest or appeal. The view
that does not give us the card for philosophers has prevailed between the generality of our
legal people.

Fortunately, the reaction has occurred, and so hard in some spirits, you can do suspect to a fair and
critical cold is greater than the ground that hold water.

The most skilled and passionate supporters of the Spanish philosophy
has been, in my view, Don Gumersindo Laverde Ruiz, D. Nicomedes Martín
Mateos, D. Francisco de Paula Canalejas, Father Ceferino González
and recently D. Marcelino Menéndez y Pelayo.

However, despite the lessons that the latter is taking place in the Ateneo, and despite As has already
been written in his works on the aesthetic ideas and the heterodox, yet I understand that the
issue is not well elucidated.

Our most notable philosophers from the Renaissance to the day, written in Latin, rather little
is written, for all which neither have been faithful and light extracts of what they wrote,
or have been issued on this fair and well considered judgments, or the profane, in whose number
I count, we have come to learn with clarity and accuracy of its systems and doctrines. We know
that we have had, and we boast of having among our philosophers Luis Vives, Valles, Francisco
Victoria, the eminent doctor Suarez, Melchor Cano, Domingo de Soto, Foxo Morcillo, Gomez Pereira
and many others, but most people just started, knows little more than their names. However,
just know them and just know that good or bad such illustrious men have used in the study of philosophy
to reasonably presume that is not lost between we the fans in this study, and therefore, the books
of the Library Mr. Serra will be sold and read, and very sincerely we wish.

Another popular opinion, which goes very valid today contradicts the possibility that our desire
performed. Not a few people believe that philosophy gets smaller and consume conquered and
dismembered by the positive and exact sciences, which have been slowly
encroaching on their domain, annexation, and divided up as blessed
or unblessed bread.

But this is a unfounded vanity empirical scholars and the crowd that admires and follows. The
is reasonable to believe otherwise: that the more experimental knowledge extends, the more it
grows and magnified in the mind the concept of philosophy and the extent unexplored his empire.

Let
us imagine that philosophy, August and sovereign Empress of science, dwells in splendid Alcazar,
whose halls and courtrooms are gorgeous and its elegant domes and steep towers it seems that
reach the sky and bathe in pure light, radiant than the sun that Regular us light. Well, poop,
so we figured it Vastis underground or basements where they walk the wise experimental and
scrutinize everything.

There are stables, pens and tinados, not just junk storage, rooms able to servitude, stoves, sinks,
warehouses, storerooms and other offices by style. For some cracks and skylights may be perceived
and discerned something of the magnitude and beauty of the castle, but the wise are no experimental
way to penetrate it, if well as more walk, notice and find out that part down, fastest growing concept
the superb range and extent of the unexplored beautiful and unattainable that on them up. So
I understand what is philosophy about the science of observation and experiment proceeds.

Perhaps no one ever gets real and effective up to the top of the castle, but by virtue of faith,
imagination or some way of loving enthusiasm, perhaps we rise in spirit with the wings that
give us religion, metaphysics and poetry, and see or we forge the illusion that we see some
of those wonders. Anyway, the media very subtle that we use to achieve this, and ingenuity,
tenacity and convoluted resources to go and that is worth our minds in such a difficult undertaking,
has such charm attractive and so powerful that we fall in love delight
and triumph but instead of obtaining only disappointments.

In this regard, and for the reasons stated, philosophy books go out of fashion, and everywhere,
even in Spain, pleasant and interested now and forever. We wish therefore success to the library
of Mr. Rodriguez Serra. Van and published in her writings of Schopenhauer and Baltasar Gracian,
and are announced as in press, several of Nietzsche, Ibn Geribol, Emerson, Leopardi, Vives, Stiner
and others, so opposite in their ideas that the least we can acknowledge the editor is biased,
but rather appears endowed with a syncretism that inspires sympathy.
