 In his view, Tirso flew to the kitchen for the brazier of silver
with charcoal grilled. Before the auction master cigar bite without requirement which does
not burn well, and the slave, with humble expression mixed with fear, I approached to light the
fire to his hand. With the first puff of blue smoke and acrid took the cigarette, stood up and,
followed by Butler, is entered on the desktop, so quiet as when he left an hour before, to sit at
the lunch table.

The disappearance of the father found itself a sudden and complete change in mood and family
behavior without excluding the mother. The hearts of the children was relieved by Apparently,
the weight that had oppressed, even though all of them, like concert were glad they face and broke
the tongue. Leonardo took particular enthusiasm the point of attracting to himself his mother
with his left arm to give each other kiss on the cheek and say:

-
What is it?

(Indicating his father). Are you angry?

- Contigo, "said his mother briefly.

- Me? Well, send him work.

Soon, however, was again seriously because, having noticed her sister
Antonia, not showing much growth as others, recalled the incident
in the window of the street.

- Mama, he added more seriously, I figure
you'll spend the pot and you're not.

- Why do you say that, son?

Rosa said in the softest voice imaginable.

- Did I say it, Antonia? asked his sister with malicious air.

Antonia, instead of answering, he got serious and started to leave
the table with Leonardo which added to the race:

- Worse for you,
Antonia, if you get up and leave me with the word in the mouth.

Do not say anything Mom, but it is because I have already made my
decision.

No more visits by military in my house.

- You sound like you're the master, Antonia said with disdain.

-
I am the master, it is true, but I can break a leg to one of these
days, and both counts.

- We are exposed to you break it to you.

-
We shall see.

- Suppose that instead of Spanish soldier was a cadet
who visited us, you also oppose?

- Cadet!

Cadet! Leonardo repeated with marked contempt. No one speaks of cadets,
which which military officers is nothing between two dishes.

Fashion and cadets passed, the last were buried on the beaches of Tampa, where, by that, he
took Barradas. The that they have survived the disastrous campaign, surely you have lost the taste
for weapons. Thank God we are freed from their folly.

- So that your grudge is against the Spanish, as if your father was
in Havana.

- That hate of yours to the Spanish, Rosa said, has yet
to cost us dearly, Leonardo.

- Is that my blind hatred is not mom,
not against the Spanish general, but against the military.

They think the masters of the country treat us with contempt for
us peasants, and because wear epaulettes and saber figure they deserve
and can handle anything.

To get into any hand, do not wait for the guests, once inside take
the first girls and more beautiful.

This is unbearable. Even if one looks, the girls are the ones with the fault. They seem dazzled
by the brightness of the epaulets.

- For me, Carmen noted, the rule have an exception.

- And for me, said Adela, the same thing happens.

The military, which are decent, transcend barracks.

- Do not talk like that girl said her mother, who is very deserving
military, and not going away, my uncle Lazaro Sandoval, who was colonel
of the Fixed Regiment of Havana, was at the site Pensacola and died
full of honors and scars.

- But do not talk about those military
mom jumped up and said Leonardo.

There is talk of military who came from Spain to reconquer Mexico, and that having failed to
come back here there we pay for the bad humor of the ignominious defeat. These soldiers are
which I now refer.

Is not the worst that transcend headquarters, says Adela, but are, as men, husbands malditísimos.
Until we reach brigadier, live in barracks or castles, which are home pavilions by servants,
workers rude and wanton for fun racing beatings and stick to beat them to the soldiers, for
music, target drum. Almost never set anywhere, because when you least expect it, they Featured
come out, and to Trinidad, this time to Port au Prince, then to Santiago Cuba, then to Bayamo ...
And if you are married, women and children and the household gods, of course, must follow from barracks
to barracks, from castle to castle, from detachment detachment when, for reasons of economy
she stay with her parents and he leaves with his soldiers. As its purpose is to find women to
marry rich, little care for the character and background from which to take his wife out,
sooner or later, they will scratch face and they have dragged by the hair.

Antonia could not suffer any more: he rose from the table and walked into the room, quiet and very
upset.

- Have railed your sister for no reason, Rosa said.

She does not think of any military, as much as any celebrity.

- Do not think about them, but admits courting the window, and here's
what irritates me.

- Antonia is not of those, fortunately, my son.

-
No? - Oh, Mama!

It seems you are losing sight of the understanding and face ... I
do not want talk, all I say and repeat is that one of these days I'll
break a leg to one of those soldiers.

Then he got up and as if nothing had happened, or that annoy him, went to post occupied by his
sister Adela, clasped with both arms around her waist and gave many
kisses.

- Remove, remove, she said.

Why, you were not mad at me? Hurt me with the beard.

- Where are good, so dolled up?

Leonardo asked him dodging the question indicated by sister.

- Let's Shop Pitaux Madama, who now lives in Havana street number 153.

Ago little has come from Paris and they say, has brought a thousand curiosities. On the way we
thought a tour of the Loma del Angel.

To go to the Hill is too late. Spend eleven. And now that I remember, have you seen Vds. the
number IV or Recreation Fashion Week? [25] Since Saturday was divided and is very interesting.

- You will have there? asked Carmen.

It is strange that we have sent our copy being subscribed.

- Where
are you signed?

- In the library of the Coba, Wall Street, which
is the closest point.

- For further claimed.

The copy I read was at the counter of the pharmacy of San Feliu because
mine has failed me too.

They're not accurate, they say, the delivery.

- Have you found out who is speaking Matilda of Fashion? Adela asked his brother. Because Carmen
believes that is all we know.

- To me it seems to me, "said Leonardo, who is an imaginary being. Perhaps Madame Pitaux know
something.

- For me it has me, "said Carmen, who Matilde Fashion is none other
than Micaelita Junco.

It happens that she is the most elegant of Havana that his brother, a real dandy, called Juanito,
who has a grandmother named Mrs. Stephanie Menocal - similar name the Moncada - that give fashion.

-
I believe you're right, "said Adela. I can not deny that the dress and hairstyle had yesterday
in the Tour Micaelita Junco figurine identical to Saturday's Fashion before last. Certainly not the
style I liked the Giraffe. The braid is too wide and loops too high, then behind the head
looks awkward. Short sleeves, puffed, with sobremangas of lace, I do seem nice and I feel
good at the one with the arm turning, as Micaelita. His brother Johnny, who greeted us at the
fountain of Neptune, Remember?, Was also the same as the fashion plate fashion. We sat pants
Mahon no creases, white waistcoat and jacket of green cloth without portfolios. This is fashion
English, they say. Did you notice the hat?

The cup stumbling in the branches of trees of Alameda to be a chiquirritín Juanito Junco.

- The tie is what I peta, Leonardo said. Is so high that no game left neck. Do not ever use. I
do not like these dog collars. Nor do I Petan the coats to dernier, [26] seem to zacatecas.
The narrow skirts down to the knees and it seems to me the fashion that we have tried to imitate
the tail of the swallows.

Envelope that has been committed Frederick dress in the English and we are better found with
French fashions.

Uribe has more grace, if not more skillful scissors.

- Do not jump to Uribe, who is a mulatto tailor Wall Street and does not know jack of fashions
of Paris or London, said Carmen with marked contempt.

- Do not think like the main people of Havana, Leonardo replied promptly. The Montalvo, the
Romeros, the Guanajay Herrera Valdés, Count of the Meeting, Filomeno, the Marquis Morales Peñalver,
Fernandina ... do not dress to another tailor. I prefer to Frederick. The further receives periodic
Paris fashion by all packets [27] Havre.

As entertaining conversation between the brothers, the coachman stopped performing with the fourth
enshrined in the right wrist and hat round in the left to announce that the chitin was ready
at the door. Instantly the two younger sisters went in search of greater and its features
together blankets and surrounded the mother ask your service. This lady made them the custom
of some shopping at lingerie shops, or clothing, and then drove them through the vestibule to
the street.

No wonder the reader stranger to see three ladies of the class can
be called average take to the streets of Havana without owner, father,
mother or brother that accompany them.

But so other than on foot or to pay visits of etiquette, it could two, three more young people,
driving all over town, to shop, pick with the Spanish waiters stores and on the nights of retreat
in the Plaza de Armas or the Alameda de Paula, to receive the steps
of the carriage the homage of his friends and the adoration of his
fans.

Yes, even for a visit in the vicinity of his home and on foot, custom demanded that the Cuban when had
no relative respect, should accompany even the same slave.

Upon entering the chitin Carmen, gave her hand to raise a young stranger who happened to go through
there, then Antonia Adela and ultimately, receiving from them in
return for their gallantry, a grateful smile.

     
      Thus, younger and beautiful of the sisters occupied the middle seat,
the less comfortable indeed but undoubtedly the most conspicuous and
proper to display the natural graces habanera wonder.

        Since then, the coachman mounted his horse out of sticks, which by
its smooth step, good picture and carefully braided tail, was both
rest and pride rider, and went to escape the carriage in around the
Plaza Vieja.

CHAPTER XII

Known for its toys the child and guess what must be his works.

Parables of Solomon

They were finally alone Gamboa Rosa Sandoval and his son Leonardo.

It had not taken his father's talent for business. Neither provision announced none for a literary
career that he spent, but I used to write verses and articulejos for the Journal and other newspapers.
His mother, however, wanted to be a lawyer, Doctor of the University of Havana, flattered by the
hope that it could in this way, come to judge of the Audiencia of Puerto Príncipe, and even
Lieutenant Governor, as they called then the real appointing qualified judges. She rightly
believed that by money and relationships of her husband in court, it could be achieved for their firstborn
any grace, honor or title, among the many who, thanks to those stimuli
is used Crown grant.

Merchant, in respect of the father, there was hope that the waiter came to more than mayor,
a chaplain or member of the Commercial Court or Royal Consulate jobs crummy, no honors or emoluments.
Moreover, Don Candido in fact did emphasized that his son should
study and follow this or these other literary career.

"Lawyer? Ni thinking. It aficionaría to lawsuits, and would end with a flow and that of their
clients. Neither Don Candido knew more letters than those of Cato, [28] which had not prevented
accumulation a respectable fortune.

Now, in addition, she gave birth to the desire of the owner, and did not seem right that his
son, at least trucks books or rod trader or doctor's cap, the crown of the count, although there
was a Santovenia, precisely in those days, had the last barter mentioned. Despite his ignorance,
he acknowledged that would not streak as Leonardo man of letters, or as a business, and said
to himself, or was the matter with his wife

- We can not forge illusions. He (his son) will not ever much of himself, though one cares and
spend money in their studies. There is no head but to love and spread
the tuna.

It is known crossbow. But he need not of great knowledge to role in the world?

- Ca! No, sir. Fortunately, that is, God gives you money, son, that you know little worth; reads
Castilian proverb. And money should not be lacking when I die. Then if I get the title Conde de
Casa Gamboa, I intend in Madrid, meets on monis with the nobility, two gadgets these with the
more gross may appear on the front, enjoying privileges and lying to snore soundly, certain
and sure that does not trample on debts before you will draw all hat, cherry-picked and will
bring the water before you dance, like the boys large, men women
beautiful crest.

Ah! What time is lost! If I had ten years has called, we sang a different story.

Indeed, Leonardo discovered less ambition than talent. Granted, the hope of being something for
their knowledge, their education or for their industry, never warmed his heart. Confident that
before the death of their parents would be very rich, not any effort made to know, and he hurried
to study the lessons of law, and laughed out loud when in jest, it was said among the family
that he might become a judge or count, or that its father had built in Spain, to the owner,
a family tree that had not to be not a drop of Jewish blood or brown. Moreover, so humble
was to seasoning their inclinations, their strong and unruly passions.

Benefit was, at that time at least, the supreme law of his soul. Because
her mother because I loved him too, anyone would believe that, far
from disempowered govern their impulses, appeared pleasure in them
loose. What could experience a boy needs his years and occupations?
Books, clothing, horses, carriages, servants, money, everything was
left over, nor the work order almost never had, because from the cradle
had grown accustomed to seeing satisfied their wishes and even whims,
just indicated. With all this, no day passed without being made Mother
some expensive gift, also taking the habit of putting every afternoon
The vest pocket half an ounce of gold, sometimes an ounce. Naturally,
as entered that money and left, unaware of its value, and how bad
it was never passed through the mind the prodigal son, which should
save for tomorrow what is not needed for expenses today. How our gold
poured beardless student