 Is sensitive to this
accident by the lack I could do to defend the people, but nevertheless sent a rifle company
with Captain D. Santiago Road, only to sustain withdrawal of the cavalry, who found happily
covering this operation with fire the rifle, whose result had the opposing 30 dead and many
wounded, and ours only they were slightly D. José Antonio Castilla, Pomata chieftain and a soldier
your company.

Mantuviéronse rebels without moving what little remained of that day and all next night, the
din pore was unbearable. For our part, the guards were doubled and sentinels were appointed
cavalry pickets and some spearmen on foot, to be maintained continuously monitoring around the village,
so to avoid any fire, so that with the greatest caution and silence them in advance what was
possible to observe the movements the enemy, turning after few orders were necessary to avoid being caught.
At which time the attack broke Hill Quicksilver, and recognizing it was very difficult defend
him, was ordered to leave, and immediately took the enemy, which seems not expect rather than
possession of it to begin the attack of the people, because at ten o'clock the next day began
with an air moving down from the eminence, making boastful ostentation of his flock, to spread
around the slopes of the mountains which were presented in sight. Adelantáronse some to set fire to
the huts that were somewhat distant of the population, sheltered and supported some rifles
that fired the garrison, and were offensive to the main square, but was prevented by placing
one of the towers of the matrix six rifle fire that they might do about them, and stressing to
the position of Orcopata a squad of them with a company of cavalry, not only managed to scare
them away, pregnant but also cut off the royal road Chucuito, as intended.

In view of these events, the Indians went ahead with all its thickness,
to the slopes and foot of the mountain Queroni, so that left no open
another front to the town that to discover the lake from the top of
the hill immediately to Quicksilver.

They burned some ranch, not far from the church of San Juan, seized the outskirts of Guansapata,
the Indians refused Mañazo faithful who defended, and finally put one of their banners on
a rock very immediate to the population, whose highest point had a cross. In this critical situation,
was sent to the deputy militia riflemen Puno, D. Martin Sea and D. Evaristo Franco, who with
their pickets attacked the enemy suddenly in the place where they had placed the flag, which egecutaron
at great risk, but helped of living fire that made them, managed to reject in a short time
of that post, and than ours kept against the new reinforcements and supplies that they opposed
the Rather, it was necessary to highlight the captain D. Santiago Road, another squad of riflemen,
order that the reinforced, with which not only contained the Indians, but that aside to a considerable
distance, leaving owners in a situation so important. Logrose the same object part of the Cerro
de San José, where the rebels were also rejected by the ensign D. Juan Caceres, who rushed
to Pomata cavalry company, another Chucuito of patrolmen, and sheltered from the fire of the
riflemen, stationed in the tower church. The companies of cavalry of Puno, and the Tiquillaca, commanded
by D. Andres Calisaya, This second village chief, with others of the Chucuito, opposed to those
who tried attack by the Cerro de Queroni, but never locked combat, because undertaken fled
to the slopes of the mountain, and down when our retired. As was decided that Captain D. Juan
Asencio Monastery, with the assistant D. Francisco del Castillo, and some other officials from
other provinces, incorporated with the rifle company, advanced supported by the cavalry, as egecutaron
happily, pushing back the enemy to mountains, was the result of which free people everywhere. Function
lasted until six in the evening: it repeatedly attacked the enemy with all his might, that
as it is passed from 18.000 the combatants, and ours only came to 1.400. The fixed number of
the dead were, we could not investigate because they looked after they are removed promptly, but
in response to live and continued to fire they suffered, were to be believed many, and the highest
number of wounded. Of us was hurt Chucuito Governor a rifle bullet that pierced his left thigh,
and dislocated the same Orellana foot of a fall from his horse, which briefly noticed discomfort,
and continued the action. Other officers and soldiers were also wounded, and some of them dangerously,
but ended happily the result of his injuries.

At night, doubled the care and safety precautions to prevent a surprise; but the rebels abandoned
the site, leaving only a piece to conceal his withdrawal: to provide coverage to better their true
intention, which maintained its cautious view used to make some proposals to the clergymen
who placed themselves to parley its immediacy, again asking the person be handed the magistrate
Orellana, and publish the They sent camp, commanded by the traitor see José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, entertaining
part of the morning with these and other stratagems, something more
subtle and warned, regularly than a nation renowned thought humble
and uneducated, to disappeared all in search of the first who gave
up the effort.

Then Reconocióse was certain the entire withdrawal, and no doubt would go in much disorder,
it was decided remain upon the villa companies that were considered necessary for safekeeping,
and the rest of the troops out in scope, under the command of Colonel Chucuito militias, D. Nicolas
de Mendiolaza, were pulverized to the rear with the prevention of too strive not with enemies. He managed
to achieve a league and a half away, on a mountain not very high, to the left the real way
of Cuzco. The minute they were immediate, the first alighted, and unite them without waiting
for the others, began the fire on some Indians, who separated the bulk of his army occupied
and defended a short stone eminence, where they were rejected instantly, and went to meet
with others, in the top of the hill, which was where they had their charges. There was renewed fighting
with incredible bravery of obstinacy and both sides, because without the rifle, he believed
more suitable for entertaining to the contrary, wreaking havoc on them, which was also defended
with courage and perseverance. However could have achieved a glorious action, if companies of cavalry
had copied to the forefront the few who fought with courage and bravery, but in spite of zealous
activity that sought to carry the fight their Commander Mendiolaza could not reduce the persuasion
or the example I gave, putting himself at the head of them, making he fire the enemies amid
a flurry of stones which they threw their slings from close range, and seeing that nothing could,
abandoned the attempt which had proposed stay in that place until the next day to continue the
attack, and play sent the call to retire to Puno, as they performed. But the same disobedience
of troops caused the disorder, and perish in the function and removed six of us: rather than
bought enemies to much price advantage because they had more casualties, having suffered more
than two hours, a high heat to them by the musketry.

Although it managed to repulse the rebels in Puno, who founded the trust in futility that were
directed against the Indians of that village where people traveled, caused dire misfortunes.
In the village of Coata wiped himself every day to Spanish and mestizos who may have to blows, and
the same happened in the Capachica. On the other part, the people of Yunguyo Desaguader Cepita
Chucuito province, declared by the party of rebellion and joined the province Pacajes, preventing
pass an extraordinary, Orellana dispatched by the Commander of the Peace, asking him appoint
a sugeto able to maintain and defend that position should be considered already in care to that
as a result of the fall of the horse was unable to continue as important Object: and considering
that he had been fruitless diligence, did not think of another thing that prevented damage to
lower than expected, and resist invasions that repetition of the
insurgents.

Also Chucuito Governor, then he knew the alteration of the first towns in the province, asking
the media to calm down, and having tried on board, war which seemed more appropriate, submit proposed
to contain armed men those movements, to which no Orellana agreed by the consideration that,
being arising the same cause as others, it was essential that the whole province were moved,
and Thus detachment getting locked in the center of it: as indeed it happened to that, the Governor
particular order, are sent to the chief's Pomata, D. José Toribio Castilla, who was killed
with 25 men who accompanied him on his own people, who took occasion to declare to the neighbors
discovered by the rebel side.

With the news of this second unfortunate event, the same magistrate determined to send all militias
in the province, who marched under the guidance of Captain D. Santiago Road and on arriving
at Juli recognized the bloody havoc of all the inhabitants of that town, which passed by the Spanish,
whose assets had been plundered, without getting rid of the sacred temples of anger and profanity,
taking the rebels for asylum after the mountaintops immediate. Upon entering our people in the population,
they found the plazas and streets flooded of blood and bodies thrown everywhere and found no
one who would give them reason of that fateful show: until the noise of some fusilazos who shot
at Indians who descended to the foot of some hills to bother them, they go to the priests
and a few others who managed to escape, tucked into the most secret places, and assured the captain
Road that there were no other hidden, gathered his people and went back to the campaign all
those who had had the happiness of freedom from the careful application
of the Indians and went back to the vicinity of YLAB, where he had
participated as occurred, and accordingly was determined in a council
of war to continue its withdrawal, but did not obey, until he forced
many Indians Acora people who suddenly declared by the usurpudor whose
novelty Orellana said to them that went for a body troops under his
command, only to sustain the withdrawal, because the just care of
their capital did not allow anything else, not least stay away from
it for long.

Shortly after his arrival, he received the news that the Indian rebels were on Puno: The Governor
communicated Chucuito, Moya, and called him, warning exploited the moments to help him. He
raised his field and was launched at twelve o'clock at night, leaving willing to follow him as
the only way in those critical circumstances, which effectively egecutaron immediate morning
to Chucuito Acora escorting the neighborhood, and those July and had escaped YLAB, whose populations
are immediately seized by the rebels, and delivered to the flames in jail, the gallows and
some private houses, looting in Furniture churches which tried to protect the sacred shadow of
his respect. For Azangaro part of our weapons were happier, as a small detachment, released by
Orellana under the command of D. Calisaya Andres, chief of the village of Tiquillaca, did not
Capachica only relief but also to cover those Pusi, Saman, and Caminaca Taraco that infested by
the rebels, chastened by death of some, and removing the livestock they had. So also D. Melchor
Frias and Castellanos, at the head of the faithful Indian peoples of Mañazo, Vilque, Cavana,
and Cavanilles, who had come forward to provide their people King's service, he traveled the road
of Arequipa, and he defeated a party of thieves, commanded by an Indian named Juan Mamani, who
had intercepted, slaying him and to many of his people, after a stubborn resistance, of whose
results were Free Spanish 20 wives who were prisoners, and the Indians
seized a faithful considerable deprivation, from how much they had
stolen from the people and roads.

Esponse is withdrawn as Chucuito militias to its capital, Captain D. Santiago Road, inquired of
the Board of War, established in Puno, if withdrawal should continue until incorporated into that
town with the other troops, stay in defense of the city, if attacked by enemies, since the
drain and Cepita, continued the conquest across the province, and in this case begged succor
you with live ammunition. Responded the Board, which is franquearian, not only ammunition but
also that it would strengthen with people who are considered necessary, then to report the
number of enemies who threatened, but at the same time he wrote privately to the Governor Moya
commander, to attempt to withdraw all the troops, provisions made to discover any animosity
between these two magistrates, who regularly undergoes Unfortunately, when many have part in
military operations, as everyone wants to own a glory that is envied even those who are unable to acquire
it, and that many misfortunes have followed hard after repair, as happened on this occasion,
for while it was decided, determined Chucuito attack the garrison of a party of Indians coming
to him. Standing in the road, and engaged in combat in the summit and slopes of a mountain of very
harsh and difficult climb, at a distance of half a league from the city, where the value was
not enough that the enemy attacked known to gain advantage, and came up to meet him the next
morning, already found the situation improved, but still fought a long time without fruit.

In the afternoon the enemy recognized the little damage they received from a mason, with which sought
to offend, and determined to seize him, as indeed he got, attacking precipitation suddenly and
those who defended him, who put in a shameful and hasty flight, which followed a total disorder
in others. Indians do not miscarry this favorable opportunity presented to them, and upload it again
with all the fugitives, followed them to lock them in the city, in the scope of which killed many
of the ours. The Indians did not dare to penetrate even into the population, and retired In
the foothills of the mountains that dominate it, after having set fire to a few ranches around,
satisfied with the benefits they had achieved, but the confusion extremity where were those
militants, led to a total lack of obedience, and without repair the danger to which esponian,
scattered and disordered fled to Puno, arriving many the same night, referring to that event
with mournful wailing and greatly exaggerated the number enemies that made up to the immense.
Novelty Difundióse instantly throughout the villa, and dismayed by this sort of tensions, which
Orellana came to suspect trying to leave their troops, so that was obliged to take great precautions
to avoid it, and to the Next morning, though the missing part of Lampa not just fears of new attack
Chucuito marched to three companies of cavalry, in order to investigate the situation of Indians,
and which enters the same city if the road was disengaged, but with orders not to engage in
any function, but only supports withdrawal Officers and soldiers who had remained, and also to pick
up the wretched Spanish of that neighborhood, and seek to free them
from the fury of the Indian rebels.

They let the enemies this task to the same city, but was cautious because immediately occupied
a gorge inevitably more difficult to withdrawal, which warned by the commander, while he was
gathering all who had been in Incas, it was necessary to throttle back, yet he was obliged to
open Step by force, whose stock lost some soldiers, unable to avoid the havoc The rebels did
in those who sought to save the shelter of this relief, in which also lost his life occasion
the priest of the Church of Santa Cruz de Juli, he could avoid the first risk of loss in the
commotion of his people. The first to arrive to Puno referred the conflict in which they supposed
to Chucuito, with news of which sent Orellana gets ready musketry all determined to go in
person to help her, and by the act of undertaking the , they arrived other circumstances that
varied widely, ensuring it had delivered the Most of the people, and came back a little with the
three companies incorporated of cavalry, and also was useless to go for those who had not been
able to pass the gorge where the rebels were posted, because inevitably had already perished.
Reasons they did suspend the output, and very soon gave him the most just cause for feeling
He recognized the deception and lack of many sugetos estimation, particularly of D. Nicolas
de Mendiolaza and others, which forced him again to send balza be carried to the lake to the
immediate banks to Chucuito, to liberate some who had hidden in the straw, reed call, that
abounds.

Then they left the city cited the three companies of cavalry, entered
the Indian rebels without resistance, and executed the most atrocious
cruelties.

Killed more than 400 Spanish and mestizos of either sex, without reserve the creatures chest. Within
the priest's house, the cathedral seeking asylum, went to many unhappy sword. With sacrilegious
audacity desecrated temples, without the veneration and respect due serve a shield to those
who had hidden in them, because removing them at the doors of the church, they took away the lives
on the threshold of the house of the Lord. Determined to pass the same Orellana the third
day his troops to prevent some, if he could, so many horrors, but again penetrated with sorrow
to view the pitiful sight he found the streets and squares, and disastrous idea that the entire
population had reduced to ashes, and only had occasion to recognize the skill with which the
zeal of D. Claveras Peter had moved days before more than 240 Puno quintals of quicksilver and important
roles for SM, which were in the royal treasury, which also got involved in the fire all the
people. There was in it other than Spanish the two priests and a few clergy, who also awaited
the death that day, intifada the inhuman leader of the rebels, if not declared the camp site
where they supposed hidden SM flows, the danger averted by the arrival of Orellana, whom expressed with
tears of her heart, and then thought about returning to Puno, traffic which carried the enemy
to the Gorges, with intent to cut up, as it had been earlier: but they were frustrated the plan to
have bet some Rifle pickets who held them with the loss of three or four of the most daring.

At
the same time or with little difference, the Indians of that part of Azangaro, doubling their efforts,
back on the people of Capachica, whose faithful Indians had some mestizos rejection of the principles,
but finally gave in to the crowd, which empowered the population,
used the same cruelties on the other, from the sword and to all the
Spanish people white, which may have to blows.
