 Allánense the British to admit that possible
the emergence of a playwright who is worth more than Shakespeare, and we allanémonos to confess
that it is possible the emergence of a superior novelist Cervantes. In what we do not As Allan
and I did not flatten, is that this novel has already appeared, and less to be Tolstoy, or
Zola Bourget. But while someone came to convince anyone of these novelists now worth more than
Cervantes, I still did not convince me that the superiority was to exercise or use of a most exquisite
art and deep, but that Zola, for instance, God had given more intelligence, more estrus, most
inventive and depth of ideas and feelings that Miguel de Cervantes, where it had limited to
write little things for mere pastime, not penetrate beyond the cortex and epidermis, while Zola as
a diver plunges into the most obscure spiritual recesses of the human being taking away the light
of day mysterious secrets, never revealed before.

Yet, given this, and no small grant, I have an objection. Are not we will involve the notions
of art and science? Is it valued most, because it has more content Scientific works of art that
another work of art? Germinal cheap demos contains more a lot more science than the ingenious
gentleman, but even then can infer that Germinal be best novel. You might as well, in view of
modern developments, inference, not a basic treaty, but the most compendious book of agriculture
is worth a thousand times the Georgics. The Georgics may not teach but nonsense and errors,
while studying Primer can understand any subject become more than average farmer. But Art not intended
for that purpose. It proposes the creation of breathtaking beauty that delights, snatches and
elevates the soul, which is achieved with the Georgics, where the read is capable of understanding;
but do not get with the card, which is available to the most stupid, that no one not understand, and reporting
useful knowledge. But what to achieve this end is not always better to write cards that poems
or novels? All that the wisest teach novel day you can encrypt anything in a couple of the more
modest flat primer. And so, leaving aside of wisdom that the novel circle, will peel and lirondo
the artwork, which then Fashion passes is another day and public taste is almost certain that gender
bored human and will fall into oblivion or contempt.

How am I to deny me that mankind has come a long way?

Their culture is like a capital is increasing every day, either by new profits as revenues that
are not spent and accumulate. What I deny is that art, like art, progressing to two of the
culture.

I do not like to defend paradoxes. If you liked it, I would defend to the contrary, with no
little complacency, because the most divine and admirable art is in general and particularly in a word,
is the inspired, spontaneous, as in some unconscious way, say what is on top of all individual
consciousness in the collective mind in impersonal reason, the superior ingenuity of peoples
and races and even the divinity, which reveals or believe that is revealed. And although I do
not deny the possibility and continuity of present and future revelations, I find more suited
to the primitive ages of present age such cases, which can well be
described as supernatural and divine.

It does not prevent the above that the technical side, the manufacturing industry is in the literary
day later and more contained than in past centuries. Hence, for each of novels that were written
one or two hundred years ago, today are written hundreds or even thousands. To which contributes
greatly that today more people have read them and buy them. But the same states as outdated
and ephemeral nature of current production. How do I remove merit
that I managed to create an audience, gain their attention and sympathy
and entertain and amused for ten, twenty or thirty years, with the
stories you write