 

The news had been feeling at all. There were few who knew where his wife Montesinos, although
everyone knew the incidents of marital drama that he had withdrawn the Peñascosa entailed estate.
But what was just curious strangers, the good Dona Eloisa offered, of course, with the appearance
of deep and profound emotion. Intended course to find out what happened at his brother, later sought
to be her husband, wanted send a servant. A whole opposed D. Martin, seeing things more coldly,
comprised any step of these at the moment was inopportune. The conversation was extremely animated,
to the point that ombre suspended the game and took part in it. Comments that were made infinite. Thousand
scenarios were forged on the case. Some felt that the wife sorry, came to apologize to her husband, others
who made the trip just to claim of food, others that his intent was to formalize sue for divorce,
others had called her husband, unable to banish from his heart the love that the professed (Most
of the female element was inclined to this assumption), other than P. Gil, motu own, had written
to Ms Joaquin and had prepared the scene, so that D. Álvaro forgive her, others who had persuaded
him to that calling Peñascosa. Missing or not who assumed that D. Alvaro and his wife had long
corresponded, and it was she who refused to come to visit him until the present time.

- Anyway, what is beyond doubt is that the P. Gil has a very major intervention in the case
because he owns the glory of Reconciliation - said gravely D. Narciso.

-
If so - said Director.

- The will - said the chaplain .-- The will,
and here D. Maybe Martin will soon taste see a nephew who will distract
you with their antics and their thanks.

D. Martin, who his hero's soul did not detract from having a great
desire to inherit the brother, whose health was feeble, wrinkled his
nose and muttered rudely:

- I do not care.

- I do not think I can
not believe it, D. Martin.

You can not fail to cheer the noble Montesinos home is not extinct, that anyone honorably carry
this name ... Then has to look good that big house with a few guys
who rejoice with laughter and shouts.

The work of Father Gil is the most meritorious that has taken place, and why has made very good.

Obdulia
stabbed an angry look, but tempered suddenly said with a smile innocent

- You have nothing to envy, Don Narciso. Who does not remember the town's many marriages through
it are now well-matched? Without going any further, everyone knows that D. Feliciano wanted
very little to Ms. Nieves ... and as you see today are like two chicks.

This D. Feliciano was the husband who was said in secret, had broken
a leg P. Narciso throwing down the stairs.

Bystanders looked uneasily. There was an awkward silence. Counselor dropped the laughter, and exclaimed,
putting a letter on the table, as referring to the game:

- Come on, you return the other!

Everyone understood that the father was going Narciso, and this increased
concern.

The cleric blushed and whispered:

- Thank you.

We all have an obligation ...

- You go beyond the obligation, father ... Often what you do is pure
devotion - said Osuna's daughter with charming simplicity.

- Yoho
- she cried Director, staring at cards.

- What is it, D. Romualdo?
- Asked laughing D. Norberto .-- Have you played the three of clubs?

-
Yes, sir, but I take comfort that there are clubs for everyone.

-
Well, I have none - replied the priest candid.

- Another will receive!

-
We do all we can, but there is no doubt that some are stronger than
others.

Fr Gil is a saint, an apostle of the early days of the Church. None of us has the presumption of competing
with him in zeal or wisdom - expressed D. Joaquin, coming in aid
of his friend, with a chuckle poison that would jump a stone.

- In
wisdom you may have reason, D. Joaquin - Obdulia strongly replied,
- but zeal, I think you are wrong.

You're too modest ... There is flatter, but in the case of jealousy,
I think you're as jealous as the first, right, Dona Serafina?

A grunt escaped all strange point at the time of the throat of Director,
to which was immediately followed by a violent fit of coughing that
left him breathless by some seconds.

D. Joaquin also felt some itching in the throat, forcing him to cough
back head.

Ms Serafina did not answer the question, because I was distracted talking to Ms Eloisa.

The conversation veered, as if tacitly all agreed that this was dangerous. Soon after he ceased
to be general, and returned to form the usual cliques.

D. Martin was cranky and disputed every move. Ms Eloisa spoke quietly of the case. None by
great it was, managed to disrupt the nervous system of the good lady. Your contact Ms Serafina
was conducting frequent glances and smiles to his chaplain, but it
had suddenly serious, frowning.

A cloud of sadness also passed through the beautiful passionate soul of a respectable widow,
and his eyes began to be shy, restless, filled with silent reproach.

Rang the doorbell. Nobody noticed it more than the mistress of the
house and Obdulia, which pale face was covered.

She stared at the door with dread, as if she were to enter a ghost: his nerves were placed in tension
under a mysterious magnetic influence. One minute after the curtain came alzose the slender figure
of P. Gil.

All eyes turned to him with an expression of curiosity. The news of the arrival of Joaquin's
was startled: they longed to know what had happened. But before no one spoke and the priest
gave way whatsoever for the room, Obdulia rose from the chair rose abruptly to him and dropped
to his knees at her feet.

At the same time took her hand and began to print to it live and loud kisses, while running
down their cheeks the tears and sobs broke chest. Fr Gil wanted to tear those demonstrations,
but could not. The repentant maid was holding his hands clenched. Disturbed until unspeakable, could
not say more than ...

- Obdulia, you calm down ... Calm down you! Calm yourself, my God! Get you! ... Get you, for
God's sake ...

His face white, pearly blush was covered live. A breath of delicate emotion and mystical ran through
the gathering. Some girls also blushed. The clergy looked each other. Counselor, after casting a sly look
of complete indifference to group, became again the view of the cards and muttered:

- The Redeemer and Mary Magdalene!

But Obdulia released at the end the priest's hand and fell to the ground, gripped by a violent
attack nerve. Then all the ladies rushed to her and care lavished usual. For similar and identical
scenes were frequent attacks on that gathering of virgins and widows mystical nerve. Surfaced
knobs, vials of antispasmodic.

A strong odor of ether was then spread around the room.

VIII

"The distinction between so-called organic and inorganic nature is
completely arbitrary.

The life force, as commonly conceived, is a chimera.

The matter resides life there is nothing special. Does not exist in any fundamental organic bodies
that is not already in inorganic nature: the only special thing is the movement of this matter.
Life is not just a particular way more complicated mechanics: a portion of the total matter
happens from time to time in its usual course other combinations chemical and organic, then
it has remained in them a certain period back to the movement general. "

Fr Gil read with deep emotion these and similar propositions in a book he had removed from the library
of D. Álvaro.

Then he did an act of faith with the historical books thereof, concerning the origins of Christianity,
was a long time without even taking in the hands of any other library. Of the estate continued
to visit occasionally, but fled from any metaphysical conversation. D. health Álvaro visibly
worsened since sudden arrival and departure of his wife. His sadness, he inspired his miserable
state each compassion day. The horror felt for him before he disappeared. Above religious and
philosophical differences, the opposition of intelligence and character peeked briskly the love
of humanity beating in the heart of the young priest deeply Christian. D. Alvaro was a brother
who suffered. Given this consideration, all others fail in the souls which has blown the sublime spirit
of the Nazarene. But D. Nor was the evil Álvaro Demon, which was represented in the early days
who knew him. At times it seemed. A demon talked and laughed through his mouth at times, cursing
God and man. In others, however, showed himself sweet, affectionate, compassionate, and spoke
with such innocence seemed to be listening to a child. Although defend against it, Father Gil
could not help to feel more and more fans for this unfortunate.

One morning I was chatting both in the cabinet used as an office tower and library. D. Alvaro
had been up all night coughing. I was tired, bruised.

After a while closed his eyes and was transposed into the chair. Fr Gil and thought good to
wake to say goodbye, not dared to go without it. In this uncertainty, he began to browse some
books who were scattered on the table. Encountered his eyes with one of geography, idly and
read a few paragraphs. After reading succeeded interest. The author described picturesquely some
unknown regions and phenomena of the sea was very curious. The P. instruction Gil in the natural
sciences was very limited. In the seminar Lancia they occupied a low priority: only if students
were required notions minor in physics, chemistry and natural history. Furthermore, had always
professed certain contempt for the president instilled his teacher, the contempt they feel toward
the ascetic everything that is related to the subject. So I caught these new descriptions. The
book was famous in the scientific world, had heard of him, but never fall into their hands
until then. Titulábase Cosmos, its author, Alexander Humboldt. When D. Álvaro opened eyes at last
and saw him engaged in reading, he asked, smiling:

- Are you interested in this book to you, father?

- Very.

- Well, you take it ... Take you the first volume, this is the second.

And getting up and taking it out of a cabinet, he introduced him to
the priest.

This hesitation to take it.

- Is condemned by the Church?

- I do not think - the gentleman replied
smiling .-- It is a purely expository book unintentionally some controversy.

In

this trust took home the first volume and began eagerly to read it. Began with an eloquent description
of the outer world, the panorama of celestial grandeur. The author vigorous boom unfolded the
huge mechanism of rotating bodies in the space. Passed before his eyes shocked worlds after
worlds, system after system in succession endless starry universes, fast-flying huge balloons on another
whirlwind themselves, thrown at full speed in empty deserts. What speed, eternal God! A cannon
ball is a tortoise in comparison. These balloons, thousands and millions times larger than
our earth, walking hundreds of thousands of miles per day. Under the colossal forces compelling
action, mystery, are caught by the space lightning speed. And they are all worlds where life
throbs with eternal and wonderful fertility: the same combination of movements are the renewal
of his youth and beauty are so many suns that spread and transmitted as ours to other lands accompanying
his light and life. They also stand the beautiful mountains crowned Snow, also the wind sighs
in the woods and landscapes are portrayed in lakes silent; also displayed on the surface of
the immensity of the ocean, agitated, sometimes turbulent, sometimes calm, lit by the glow of
the twilight; also suffers, also has also struggle, also loves ... And all these houses space
sail across the ocean to the sky without fear of stumbling blocks, shocks or the storms, sustained
and guided by an invisible force that ever wrong. More Beyond the thousands of stars, we perceive
at first glance, there are a hundred million perceive with the telescope, beyond these one hundred
million there are millions of millions more, that travel with speeds terrifying immensity.
That which appears as a little white powder as slight imperceptible vapor, is a nebula, millions
of suns as large and larger than ours is formed, escorted by a legion of planets and satellites
that breathe and drink his breath. And this nebula is only a province of the ether. Beyond it is another,
and others to infinity.

Inconceivable to those movements that draw on the thousands and endless deserts thousands of
suns, with that huge waterfall, the rain starts rolling ceaselessly the depths of space to these
orbits incommensurable, with those distances and speeds where the
imagination is lost, described with the firmness of a scholar and
a poet's fire by Baron Humboldt, the young priest he was seized with
vertigo.

Sujetose the temples with his hands and spent a long time with eyes closed. When opened, saw
the cheeks wet. Some tears had slipped through her eyelashes.

A deep melancholy invaded his soul. Why? Do all these wonders are not preached the greatness
of the Creator? No doubt, but despite this, the grief choked him, as man who is suddenly lost
in the middle of the ocean. Was used to measure insignificance in the moral order, their wickedness
and perversion compared with the infinite goodness of God.

But I had never seen so obviously it tiny and microscopic nature. The land we live on a poor
seemed ridiculous balloon sailing through space without being notice or direction from anyone.
Wars, catastrophes and historical transformations that she made things so despicable and laughable
as the struggles of beings inhabit a drop of water. And what was worse, Jesus Christ, whose
figure, even in its moments of doubt, he always appeared high and majestic, was now presented to
his imagination as a speck of dust, the story of redemption, as insignificant as the falling
of a leaf.

He wanted to penetrate further into the study of nature. After Cosmos read another portion of
books on astronomy, physics, geology. Gradually became accustomed to seeing in the phenomena
natural result of the activity of the forces inherent to matter.

The world could been formed without the intervention of an Intelligence, by the mere action
of natural laws. The old idea of ??a clever architect, an inspiring personal instincts weakened
in its spirit. And at least I imagined he began to doubt the existence a separate personal God
of the Universe. The act of creation found it inconceivable absurd. Everywhere he saw the action of
a constant force that operates according to laws fatal not a God who can act on a whim, whose
will is able to counteract these laws.

The idea was terrifying. Fr Gil made desperate efforts to throw your brain but to no avail. Fell
back into that state of doubt anxious to be allowed the Biblical
exegesis books, much more frightening and miserable because he was
released in full materialism, far from the idea of ??God and immortality.

He fought bravely trying represented at all hours of the sublime truths of religion, the idea
of ??a God father of souls, architect and director of the Universe, who offend our sins, who
soften our prayers and our tears, clinging with all his soul to these strong doctrines was a
whole day together with fervent longing to them, but when most neglected was a wicked thought,
fatal, fell into his brain and turned everything upside down. The idea of ??separate personal
God of the universe seemed absurd, because God would not be so infinite, since it was limited
by the world, the belief that our prayers can alter the course of natural laws, a tale of old
to trick children, religion, together, a series of myths, more or less ingenious and beautiful,
created by fantasy alive but men still children. When this was happening, P. Gil tore his
hair and biting his hands, stuck his face on the pillow, to see if I could stop thinking. Self was
horrified.

After the unfortunate event that deprived D. Miguel license to confess and say Mass, He was in charge
of the parish. And although it was restored shortly after the pastor, Bishop would not be shepherd
over sheep Peñascosa. Not deprived of the parish (this could not), but gave him a coadjutor for
the post.

This office was mandated interim Fr Gil, pending the final appointment. The full weight and
responsibility of the cure Peñascosa souls of wine to fall, then, upon our priests in the time
when most needed it that would heal her own, torn by doubt. The work of safeguarding the interests
of religion, to keep alive in that town the torch of faith, which was for him before a source of pure
enjoyment, it was grievous, odious became a torment. How what right up to the chair of the Holy
Spirit to expound the divine word, or heard in the confessional the sins of the believer,
or stood at the altar of the Sacred Host, he who doubted whether the words of the Gospel were spoken
by Jesus or not, whether auricular confession was divine law or an institution created in the
interest of hierocracy, if the sacrament of Eucharist contained a sublime truth or was reminiscent
of the symbols and mysteries religions of the East?

Many afternoons, overwhelmed by his thoughts, he went out and walked along the banks step lonely sea.
The breeze freshened the temples, the view of the ocean calmed fever of his brain. He sat on
a rock battered by the waves, and stayed for hours with eyes fixed on the horizon ecstatic.
The stunning beauty of the spectacle could not captivate.

Neither the clamor of the waves, and its changing mantle of silver and opal and sapphire, or the
celajes beautiful burnt by the rays of the dying sun never completely calmed her front. The same
painful wrinkle always crossed the same fatal interrogation read constantly in it. Does this
eternal agitation of the water is more than just a blind force pushing atoms against each other?
Is the beautiful light that reverberates on the horizon is more than a vibration of matter? That
bird that cleaves the air and plunges into the water catch and devour a hapless fish, what
mystery stored inside your body? How do I treat I am nothing more than an individual expression of the force
that animates all beings Universe?

But when these thoughts, always horrible, I squeezed as the strings of a colt made it irresistible
when he was rushing to time exercise any function of their sacred ministry. If we celebrate the
Holy Sacrifice of the Mass or give absolution crossed a penitent spirit of these dark thoughts,
I felt the same impression if you gripped the brain with a hot iron,
he assaulted a heartbreak that left him paralyzed.

I thought dying. I longed to get rid of that ordeal.

One day he was told to bring Viaticum to a village near the town. As needed some time walking
across the fields, was no bell and summon the faithful. Left alone with the clerk, the body bag
slung over her neck and the Sacred. The road stretches clung to the edge of the sea. As always fascinated
by the immensity of ocean, distracted his attention from the ineffable
mystery that wore on his chest, stopped stammer prayers and gave his
thoughts to the same meditations that night and day was upon him long
time.

The sun's rays scattered on the glass of water compelled him to action considered supreme,
omnipotent in this star on Earth life. It is he who has created the observer, who renewed. The
flower owes its perfume, its fierce agility and bloodthirsty instinct, our sweetest soul impressions
or terrible. The Sun is the father of all, love and hate. Then considered that life is more
than a immense dynamism within which transform the formidable forces of physics and chemistry.
All beings on earth, humans, animals, plants, are closely linked. Life of these is a single,
universal life and this is not nothing but a constant change materials. A universal movement
drags the atoms, as the worlds. Thousand ripples intersect in the atmosphere, a thousand forces
combine, heat and light, the affinity and magnetism join the mysteries of the vegetable and
mineral. All beings are made of the same molecules, which pass successively and regardless
of each other, so nothing property belongs to them. Our body is renewed so that after a certain
time and we have not an ounce of body material that we had before. This renewal movement operating
in each of the animals in each of the plants. The millions who inhabit the surface of the globe
live in mutual exchange of organisms. The oxygen molecule now breathed breath was yesterday
one of the trees lining the road. The molecule carbon burning in one of these piles of dried leaves
used to fertilize the soil, may have burned yesterday in the lungs of a hero. Perhaps one of
those oyster shells lying attached to these rocks to hide the match that was most precious fibers the
brain of Jesus Christ ...

He felt within himself something that tears and falls. I had completely forgotten that led him the divine
body of the Redeemer. It seemed a thing so strange, so out of touch eternal saw and touched,
she imagined must be dreaming. And without knowing what his dark hole be coming, we undertook
a fierce desire, wicked, laugh. What comedy was it? A little flour mixed and toast yesterday's
housekeeper D. Miguel was transformed if by magic in the person of Jesus Christ, a being who disappeared
from among the living does nineteen centuries. "These sovereign laws, sublime nature, be raped
because few insects in this microscopic world council meeting in the decree? Separated eyes
from the sea and set in the sexton, who ran before whistling to his
dog, which escaped after some chickens.

What reverence of the man, leading his side to God of heaven, the Creator of all things! And
the laughter rose from the chest when with more energy, reaching to the throat, he played on his
lips, was about to explode.