 Nuncita is so scared she has no time to think in the assault.

-
Lord Lieutenant!

Captain Lord! - Carmelita trembling cries, waving arms, lower jaw toothless, beating against
the superior, toothless, too, with a shudder .-- particular Captain, Please God! For the Virgen del Amor
Hermoso! ... Stop! Stop! ... Stop!

- Sooo! - Paco exclaims.

But the captain is Swedish and is pressing. Nuncita petticoats are already in the most where they can
reach high peak. The girls are back again, some are laughing to hide among the trees. Only when
they had accomplished their work of shamelessness was achieved deferred
and that officers would enable Nuncita to land.

His sister, instead of being angry with the guilty, the embarks with her rage-filled, vibrating
beams from his eyes.

- Get out, naughty! Scandalous! Is that the education that you learned from your parents? Is
it So what I advised the confessor?

Nuncita, terrified, he begins to pout and drop the key of tears. Youth male, like female, try
to calm the enraged Carmelita.

Captain and the ensign throw all the blame upon himself. It is in vain. The anger does not turn
off until it While downloading offensive words and heavy. The poor girl, sitting on the floor, sobbing,
with his face buried in his hands, excited the compassion of all those present, who never
cease intercede for her.

The question is which one has to get into the swing later.

Nothing pleases natural. How should they be left swinging by men so bold and shameless? Military
is in vain countrymen and explain his conduct in the previous event and make an oath not to reoffend
and be frugal and prudent, and always orders the ladies.

They do not trust.

Especially Rubio Lieutenant inspires considering a panic, and not without reason, as the soul
from any lustful intrigue.

But the more hopeless they were, behold, Consuelo, dazed and determined little girl that had recently
been perched on a tree, talk to your ear to a partner and then forward and says, in horror of
his companions:

- I upload. You help me.

A scream of excitement greeted these simple words. For a few moments there was no more Consuelo
to live! Consuelo alive! the crowd frenzied.

No one is unwilling to help and who does not fill them with flowers
and entertainment.

The lieutenant athletic, with a gesture of chivalry, put one knee and asks her to freeze her
foot on his thigh. The intrepid young is not to pray and run it, sitting in a jump in the
table. The same military the promise countrymen happy and change each other looks of intelligence,
determined to break his word and pay the trust of the girl with the blackest treason. But when
they were about to kick off their evil work by pushing the device
does sign Consuelo his partner.

It moves forward with a handful of pins and in a moment he turns on the petticoats underneath, so
there is no way that you see or even toe throw a flying swing. Female sex crazy applauds enthusiastically.

-
Well, Consuelo! Good!

The masculine, angry and sulky, dare not, however, to protest loudly, but murmurs that lack of
confidence, while interested, proud of its occurrence, looks on with a mocking smile. The misery
was complete. The Alfileritos obtained a success so flattering that there was no girl who ascend
to the device that fails to take sewing clothes previously with them.

While such memorable scenes were made in the forest, Jaime Moro, disdaining the pleasures countryside,
had been catechize Fray Diego and D. Juan Estrada-Rosa to take a tresillito. Was bored in
church, was bored in the forest in the city and the countryside. Recovered only serenity of mind
and was reborn in him calm and happy when I took the cards hand. As luck would be of hardship.
There were no cards in the house. But why is not afraid. Down to the kitchen, separate calls
to a servant, who seemed lighter and muscular, and giving tip instructs it to go full speed into
the city and bring a pair of Barajitas.

While therefore, not to escape it, make mighty efforts to entertain their peers, speaking of what
else may be interested, especially to Don Juan, who expressed trends strongly marked to desert, tempted
by the idea absurd for a walk in the fifth and make a visit to the mill and other guests. Moro
was sweating with fear of not being able to grief resist until the return of the servant. Fortunately
it arrived on time. As he had in his possession the coveted decks and was another man. Sure
of victory by dragging them to one room removed from the mansion, it is appropriate to bring a table,
candles, beer, cigarettes, and we there! ... Having been to lose two fingers, Jaime Moro enjoyed
that happiness with a noisy joy it caused envy.

A good crowd of people ridiculous without imagination enough to understand, or taste the sweetness
the triplet, was gone, retired to the head, to travel and visit possession after new mill that
the earl had ridden a short time ago. They formed the party, among others, the boyfriend, the
captain himself Núñez, with those of their less favorable female, Garnet, D. Enrique Valero,
Saleta, Manin and a few others. The count was not could drag because he was not found. It
said he was giving orders to the servants and monitoring some works far away, but was not
found either in them. One foreman was doing there steward or medium provided to serve as a guide.

The
farm was situated on the gentle slope of the hill where it is established Lancia. Behind the
house is the forest, depriving him of sight in the city. So to be so close it seems to be a hundred
miles of it, in the kind of loneliness field. At the same time protect against the winds of
North and West, leaving only open to the mild and beneficent streams coming from the south
and east. Fail up there the sounds of the population. Only the cathedral bells ring true sweet
hour muffled by distance. The main road is behind the forest. Another little girl, who starts
it, puts it in communication with the fifth.

No is in this, as we know, no English park or French, or garden, or waterfalls, caves or artificial.
It is a half of recreational land, half of work.

First forest, then the house with his run, then a vast and neglected garden, then meadows immense
that extend along the foot of the hill and come to the river and still saved and swell on the
opposite shore.

For these grassland is grazing cattle, you hear their bells and the
barking of dogs.

It is easy to forge the illusion of being within solitary nature. Peace is deep and only interrupts
the song of a bird or the lowing of a cow.

Hikers walked the blocks, which were well cared for, as the count had love of farming. However,
Saleta said the Netherlands had seen much better.

- Go figure, gentlemen
- said with his characteristic Galician accent - there to cows were
tied with a rope tail, you know? and have it suspended so that when
given the desire to provide what can be done without getting dirty.

This news, rigorously accurate, it burst out laughing to the present.

- But this D. Ramon when they tire of inventing nonsense! - They said to each other under his
breath, all because of that damned liar reputation it had acquired.

- Pue atrazaiyo eztán well in Holland, a friend Zaleta - Valero said that would not let him go a .--
In Manchester, when a cow he wants from ezo, ze Zientara him in a toilet and ze the sewage treatment
clean with toilet paper.

Saleta took no offense. I was so accustomed to the disbelief of his audience, although now
bursting with impatient really not not believe him.

When they had walked the blocks took the way of the cross-country meadows, and fell trimmed
down to the river, for both of the banks, alder, poplar and willow, which were here and there a
bush thick below which ran dark and gloomy. Lora is a river of the less abundant and at the same
time the most original of Spain. Before arriving the sea, "which is death," as the poet said, is arranged
to give plenty of laps as a wily old intended to mock the common law created beings. Impossible to
imagine an extravagant runway. Exits any very determined and booming population, looks set to
swallow the leagues and fearless go to the ocean. But on the fourth of a league repents turns
and slow and slouched back near the point of departure, which suggests a some, not without foundation,
walking uphill. Out again, not by choice, but pressed by circumstances, this time out of sight,
the whole world believes to be really never to return. Not so, however. The big fox, when he understands
that he no longer seen from the village, very underhanded toss and again tries to get him,
but he ashamed, and before coming away a bit, it goes to a village near the same council. Never
pursued a career frank and open. Like all characters discounted, repugnant light, uses every
situation to slip under a rock or a bush and hide the gaze of men
and remain stuck there, rotting in degrading idleness.

No one is wary of him. With its appearance of old and rheumatic invalid, unable to take a step,
has misled many shepherds. Invites you to swim into thinking they do not have half a yard background,
and then chokes miserably among its green waters. There will be within breaking beauty of
celestial nymphs swimming with their fragile alabaster arms crystals, not to leave at night to
play on her lymph the graceful mermaids, blond-haired.

Lora river is silent, enemy of all poetic idealism. Nothing fantastic beings. The fed only
true love is a swarm of frogs, so big that causes vertigo thinking how many of them live under
its protection. They are in charge of cheer with her melodious voice the places he travels.

They were also prevented with deafening noise that they Saleta could argue, as later claimed
that they were away, that being on the banks of Yumurí one afternoon, he had the kill with one
stone a crocodile. True that under the gaze of his insistent Valero colleague was quick to correct
stating that the crocodile was still a puppy and had no more than a run of teeth.

Continued good stretch the margin Shady Lora and crossed by a rustic bridge the place where the
earl had bled through a ditch, to move to his mill. But at that point, friends of the groom,
genuine representatives of the element more vigorous and masculine battalion, they suddenly
wake up the feeling of muscular strength and power of his legs. A lieutenant jumps the ditch. A captain,
not be less than the subordinate does too, but wet feet. Excited-esteem, takes off his coat and
goes again with happiness. The others imitate. Instantly making that the appearance of the
Olympic Games and still more of the great American batuda. But Núñez is an outstanding jumping.
That was long known throughout the army and more particularly in the infantry weapon. Jumped three
or four times with ease, but, wanting, as Of course, overcome their gallant comrades and give
proof of his skill, says in a tone dismissive "that is worth nothing" and that he is able
to jump the ditch, turning the back. These words were received with respect by his colleagues,
but also silence that the captain struck him doubtfully. And without further ado resolve confused.
Does not shed only one item of uniform, this is for newbies, takes
flight, and arriving the water's edge turns and jumps, but with such
bad luck that your feet get tangled rushes in and falls back as long
as it was in the middle of the stream.

Is hidden from sight of his friends for a while, and finally out snorting and splashing like
a real triton saying that there is nothing and it will jump again
to display.

But his father- does not consent. I ran my hands through the body to make sure it's draft (how
had to be!) and dam of insane excitement, he who had only recently
been exterminated in full to all the militia, began to shout:

- It
is necessary to move!

... Right now! ... A pneumonia! ... Moving! ... Friction! ... A rheumatic fever!

And other exclamations more or less consistent, which gave testimony to the keen interest health
officer inspired.

Nunez, though a warrior, yields to his request and returns to the
house to face fierce grimly, determined to be removed entirely to
socks and go to bed while Lancia is sent by itself to a mute.

All your friends around you, and so come to the house. Emilita, which is the balcony, seeing them
in that guise, she asked with surprise:

- What is that?

- Nothing - her dad yells, - that Nunez has fallen into the ditch.

Naturally Emilita hearing this heartbreaking cries out and falls fainting into the arms of several
ladies. Nunez, a hero, despising their own health, run to her rescue. In a few moments fills
the room with glasses of water and also come to light two or three bottles of antispasmodic.
When he begins to regain consciousness and reach the turning point of tears, her sister Micaela
can not be contained, violently scolds his dad.

- This has been a real barbarity!

Have you figured that her daughter has a heart bronze?

... Well little finesse is needed to hurt this way to a poor creature ...

The poor creature that defense pays a loving look in his eyes wet, squeezing while hand. The
retiree is in the last stage of depression and just dare to murmur "that live Núñez seeing his
side so there was no reason for fright." The Micaela ladies judge that has been disrespectful to his
father, but at the same time can not least agree that what has been a bullet, and manifest the
unhappy wife an ardent sympathy.

VIII

Fernanda wine.

Fernanda had not witnessed any of this. It was first thing in the
forest, making bashful nymph like her classmates, but soon tired of
the paper, turned away from them and began to think for the most solitary
places. His head, as always upright, bent under the weight of boredom
or worry, its flexible size, undulating, moving without a compass
spinning to and fro like a drunken man's body, dragged his eyes on
the ground, those beautiful African eyes were the most precious ornament
of the noble city of Lancia, and his face pale crossing a very deep
wrinkles, a sign of fixed and painful thought. Had much tortured for
two months! The impression that loves the Count had left in his soul,
choked at first by the pride, hope to return to them, had dilated
suddenly to discover the secret of their diversion, had burst into
her, had filled and burned all the love and jealousy. They were all
the more harsh as he clearly saw Luis had been cheating long time,
he had pretended he loved and to love when another