 Marti birth his father held the position Police
Celador, or whatever it is, had title to kill or imprison those who believe not faithful to
the motherland. But Don Mariano was an honest man but low intelligence and rude and overbearing
ways. When Marti was a year old, what taken to Spain where his parents were visiting relatives.
About ten months were Valencia, after which they returned to Havana, continuing performance Mariano
its former destination. Parents, therefore, Martí, Spanish, he was educated in the love of Spain and
absolute submission to his government. And the most ardent desire was to see them one day to
his "Pepe" - so called - the same task used in the old police. But while the man is not the world
made, but mold is made and the heat of events, Marti, a rebel from the child to stop and detention,
it was like those vigorous oaks raising his glass robust despite the vines that wrap and worms
chew on. Marti was a true genius, and geniuses like volcanoes bring her womb made: weave themselves
love and purifies the building. King was born as born a slave, but who was born not realize
it until it commands and is obeyed, or until no send him and obey. Martí, said she brought the birth
of the infinite understanding of the future. It performed a miracle: a pigeon's egg was born
an eagle rose garden in the rough lily perfume ....

In a neighborhood school, which he had forgotten he could not because his teacher owed more than
their ears were separated from the side that usually, he learned
early letters.

This came out at age nine for college "San Anacleto ', which was then addressed in this capital
the cult educator Rafael Sixto Casado. It was in this school where began to stand, the first in class
and winning all the awards, which began to show that air was not what he had in his head but
thought and action. That his children, studious, Fermín Valdés Domínguez had and still has
Dr. Eduardo F. Plá, his fellow students in the classroom happy happy, amazing features and intelligence
character. And it was from that school where his father, believing it took quite some illustrated
to employ a clerk in the guardhouse. And perhaps if it had been buried there and spoiled the
great man, if Arazoza Francisco, a good friend of Don Mariano, behind of this, would not have
given money to enroll in the Secondary School, and they have been encouraged to continue their
studies. They took them to leave, however, months later harassed by the author of his days not consider
it necessary to perform employment, or to bid for Celador, know more of what he already knew.
However, the longing for enlightenment led him later, when he was only fourteen summers, the
campus education, "St. Paul", grammar school he founded and managed at that time worship and courageous
poet Rafael María de Mendive. It won the affection and esteem Director and shook his friendship
with Fermín Valdés Domínguez, who opened his house off, lent him books and loaded him with
sincere affection. Of the sweetest times of her life were these, and the comfort of them,
the joy of them, came to take him out, shook the deepest fibers of the heart, the cry for independence
launched in Yara, in the heroic dawn October 10, 1868, by the illustrious man, by the warlord
distinguished by Carlos Manuel de Lawns. Days later reduced to imprisonment in the Castle of the Prince,
Rafael Maria Mendive, later deported to Santander, and they say Martí, eager to see their beloved
teacher, went to the Government, and without further recommendation that the person, got a pass
so that it can visit, and there it was daily, the Cuban dungeon prisoner, to bring comfort
its gratitude and tenderness. The clarion call of Yara, first, shaking his young soul of a
patriot, the prison of his old friend, the events of Villanueva, and other outrages and abuses
committed by the Government of Spain in Cuba, which were probably set in his mind the divine idea
of ??freedom and the need to conquer. It was then as his awakening glorious. It was then perhaps
he vowed secretly to her and held her wedding with the nation: Then I received the consecration
of the pain that enhances the soul and points unknown peaks thought ....

When Mendive went to Spain to serve his sentence, Martí, who was there was for that reason and
in darkness and without guide and under, empleose, in order to help his father always grumpy and dissatisfied
with him on the desk of Don Cristobal Madan, an old friend Bard exile. In turn, Marti continued
his studies at the Institute of Secondary Education. They say that in the middle of class hours to school,
met a group of students to talk politics, and was always Martí, the
most talked about and with more enthusiasm, the problems of the country,
and was glad to hear from their children's lips, judgments and beautiful
phrases, such as adult already manage the times and to create them:
like a man made to cry, to unleash and deploy winning battles ....
At the same time as Sunday Sweet, Captain General of the Island, decreed
the freedom of the press, began to publish Martí Domínguez Valdés
in the company of a newspaper called The Devil cripple, while directed
La Patria Libre, the latter being the newspaper that first published
his poem "Abdala," a spirited and brilliant singing of patriotic spirit
lifted.

For him it was a day of almost heavenly joy, one of those days when the sun looks like he frolics
in the souls, that he saw his poems published. But this contentment lasted little, because when
he arrived showing its production home, parents who disagreed with these games fantasy and
manly outbursts of Cubans, he was punished severely. Others have had the kisses from parents as
the first applause for their demonstration of manliness, of knowledge and Talent: Martí, Martí
did not take home more than rough voice, dry brawl cruel threat unjust rebuke of the hand
as the only reward for their early hopes of glory and honor ....

Then came the fateful moment that had to suffer the first punishment, which was to begin to lower
the cost of living, for loving his country, being a man, and refuse the seraglio. The year was
1869. It was on 4 October. Accused by some volunteers, Eusebio Domínguez Valdés, Fermin's brother,
Manuel Atanasio Sellén and Fortier, the enormous crime of having mocked passing them back from
a great stop by the house of the family of Valdés Domínguez, came, late at night, to arrest
them. On that occasion made a record at home already mentioned, anxious, surely, those outlaws,
to find something that sanctioned the killing. In the raid conducted, they found, among other
things, a letter whose envelope was yet closed, and they had written and signed and Fermín Valdés
Domínguez Martí, to send a classmate of them who had committed the bad act of signing up as
an officer regiment, being native to go to fight their brothers who were scrambling at the
time and bled to win for them and for all, home free and fair. The note, written by Marti,
was couched in these terms: "Mr. Carlos de Castro and Castro (so
called a traitor) Companion: Have you ever dreamed you with the glory
of apostates?

You know how you were punished in ancient apostasy? We hope that a disciple of Rafael Maria
Mendive, will not leave this letter unanswered. " It was determined Martí prison and Fermín
Valdés Domínguez, both courts-martial. Before the Court were called the two. Valdés Domínguez, first
stated that he was the author of the letter and the two firms. But when Marti was asked, panting
as if he carried in chest a mountain, went to the judges, and said "strong and vibrant voice
to him if was the one true author of the letter cited. And to corroborate his eloquently assertion,
made scathing attacks against Spanish rule, its politics and its tyrannical men null and infamous.
This was the first speech of Martí and the first public demonstration of his talent and uncompromising
character. There are men who come into the world such as hurricanes and avalanches, purifying and rumbling
from birth. So Marti. Sixteen years had then, "the bozo in bloom and the bird in the soul" and
Spain wanted to kill him. The prosecutor asked for him the last sentence and Fermín Valdés
Domínguez ten years in prison. But the failure was: six years in prison for Marti and one to his
comrade in misfortune and ideals. And Marti went to prison. There suffered what he said on
pages that are still dripping blood, in brochure "The political imprisonment in Cuba" and exclaiming:
"Dante was not in prison. If she felt her brain collapsed on the dark vaults of the torment of
life, had given up painting his hell. I had copied and I would have painted better. If there
is a providential God, and we have seen, one hand would have covered the face and the other
would have rolled into the abyss that denial of God. " It was then deported Isle of Pines and
later sent to Spain as a deportee. For her embarked January 15, 1871. Just before leaving he
wrote to his benefactor Mr. Mendive: "From in two hours embarkation exiled to Spain. I have
suffered much, but I have the conviction I learned that suffering. And if I had the strength
to both, and if I feel strong enough be truly a man alone I owe you and you and only you is how
much I have good and loving. Micaela tell you that if I had many foolish, kindness that the
apology makes me love her more. And Peter and Paul and Alfredo, and all my affection. Lots
of hugs to Mary and you all the soul of his son and disciple. " So he wrote to his old friend,
shortly before leaving for exile, shortly before leaving his homeland and your home and the
boy's great that books had to be later the liberator of his people and he ripped his latest
prey to the hungry American Spanish monarchy.

Marti came to Spain, sorry, poor, despite eaten the heart. Because the shackle it had been formed
a tumor from which it will operate twice and both without success. First lived in Madrid from
poor product classes that gave children of Don Leandro Alvarez Torrijo and the widow of General
Ravenet. Lived, as is expected, miserably. Living and met him when he was deported to Spain events
27 November 1871, Fermín Valdés Domínguez, friend, or rather, his brother. And Domínguez Valdés
had in the bag, enough gold, settled together in large rooms well placed. And Marti began
a new life. Improved health, he encouraged the eyes sad, and again undertook their studies.
At that time studying and yet relentlessly he lacked time to write brochures, to make speeches
from the podium the lodge "Harmony" to make verses, and talk to their countrymen of disease
of the homeland and its necessary and possible cures. A night to discuss the assassination
Student of Medicine, met the Cuban residents there, Martí spoke and recalled one who was at
that memorable meeting, which was flashing his speech, on, sweeping, and also recalls what happened
that night something supernatural. Hanging from the wall above the podium, there was a map
of Cuba, and when Marti, full of the most tender lyricism made a tearful call to her home,
surrounded by chains, when the audience, suspended of his word, trembling with emotion, the map fell
like a crown on his head. It was like if your whole entire earth,
to respond to their calls lie!

And when the proclamation of the Republic in Spain - as fleeting as a breath swallow - Marti
put in the hands of Estanislao Figueras a long letter advocating for the independence of Cuba.
And when the feds in formal session held at the Academy of jurisprudence, declined to declare
the Cuban Madrid who were content with the Spanish Federal Republic, Martí, who was present,
objected to this, and a debate that kept him up seven hours, poured on the ground these purposes.
Marti also opposed the establishment in Madrid of a Cuban casino. That and other traits, went
to his young age and in full court of Spain, as the verb and the tormented soul of his people and
miserable ....

Because Fermín Valdés Domínguez ill and doctors advised him to change of air, and he went to
Zaragoza Martí where just arrived, won the affection and estimate of the sons of that noble
piece of Spain. The insurgents were called in Aragon but the so called, without anger and hatred.
Zaragoza Martí was everything, he in meetings, newspaper writer, poet ever. In an event organized
to collect funds to alleviate the misery of widows and orphans of those brave men who succumbed
defend the honor of a king wanted to kill them criminal, Martí gave a beautiful prayer, and
Mr. Leopoldo Burón recited a few verses, also own, alluding to the act. In Zaragoza Marti received
the degree of Doctor of Laws to certificate of proficiency, and Doctor of Philosophy and Letters,
despite the strong opposition of the faculty of that University Carlist. Thus, to sheer effort,
including weakness and impulses, between bites and smiles, without biting the merit outside, walking
always on the side of the poor, and no beggar walk in between racks and stairs, became man,
big man!, the kind of home child unhappy, the suffering inmate from the quarries of Medina, the
young sickly and banished from the Iberian peninsula, our José Martí ....

And with his law degree and doctorate in philosophy and literature, left the Spanish nation
in 1873 and went to visit Paris, London and other major cities in Europe, following after trip
to Mexico, where he waited, eager to embrace his parents and sisters. In Mexico, wide and generous
land that Cubans have always found joy and warmth of their own home,
was received with marked demonstrations of appreciation.

A little of being Martí between Mexicans, was highly known and admired as a journalist, teacher, playwright,
speaker and poet. During the four years he remained in that Republic, was Director of The Journal
Universal, which is sometimes written from the bottom to the newsletters, a lecturer in Liceo Hidalgo
and other companies; playwright in major theaters. Workers Chihuahua was named Member of Congress
of Workers and the government will care lavished at every moment. Martí, without great love for his
country, had been in Mexico, as in any another country, host of conscience. But the heraldic
star that led to death between smoke and heat of shrapnel, he was like a lament as the cry of a
mother hence the mountain man who could be crowned with flowers, live long, wandering and
a vagabond, without his tent, staring at the beautiful island, where there was no justice no bribery,
no honor without punishment, no bread without blemish.

In Mexico, women's trembling with passion and soul and always full of yearning dying horse fighting
for his country, he wrote, that his own composition, entitled "Patria and female"; composition
While expressing the greatness of his soul, lulled by sighs of love and agitated by cries desperate
duty.

Heart full of tenderness and populated the mind of tragic visions, undoubtedly the brave wrote
poetry that I remember these lines:

sigh of love, as if it would fit, sad country, any thoughts that native land was not in tears.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

"And with what heart, simple woman my pain you expect you want? You can turn your kiss my cheek
but far from here, my soul waits for me. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . .

"Lying on my lip if yours, lie love my eyes if you look; of womanly love my strength I run: in disembodied
inspired agitation.

"I love the tree that shades most uncertain of the warrior's tomb brother that that nest of pearls
that beautifies blonde weaker than your love light. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . .

"Its a robust string lyre heart and lost his atoms: one love to my heart aspires, save for a single
heartbeat. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

"This gentle body full of life, and each houses a dead tree over there:
to this woman invites all to enjoy, all alone in this desert. . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

     
     
     "Do not talk about love my beating heart:
when my heart is a beat that I announced that in a battle a hero
of the homeland has perished.

        " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
     . . . . . . . . . . . . .
     
     From the land of Father Hidalgo, the priest
hero, passed in early 1877, to Guatemala, stopping earlier in Havana,
to get some letters of introduction to different personalities Government
of that republic.

     There, just shaken off the dust of the
     road, he was appointed Professor Political
     Law and Director of the Guatemalan
     magazine.

        He wrote, at the request of the
     Government, a historical drama in four
     acts and in verse, and there, an angelic
     soul girl he felt the most pure of passion.
He was a distinguished lady, the daughter of a General distinguished
from that country, who loved him madly.

        And they say that Marti was suffering
     as a crime, have to be indifferent
     to the love spring. But when he went
     to Guatemala, Mexico was already
committed to Carmen Zayas Bazán, who was then his wife and respected
widow today: why did not love so tender creature Martí and talented.

        Marti again went to Mexico to marry,
     and married again to Guatemala. And
     they say the poor love then died
     of grief, the sweet feel too bad
about ingratitude of life.

        Marti, years later, thinking no doubt
     of the love story that shook its existence,
     wrote these divine verses of tenderness
     and melancholy:

"I love the shade of a wing tell this story in bloom the girl from Guatemala, which died of love.

"They were of lily bouquets, and the train of reseda and jasmine: the buried in a box of silk ...

"She gave the forgetful scent pad; he returned, married again: she died of love.

"Were loaded on a stretcher Bishops and Ambassadors was behind the people in batches all loaded
with flowers

"... She, seeing him again, went to see the viewpoint: he returned with his wife; she died of
love.

"As hot bronze to kiss goodbye was his brow, forehead I've loved in my life!

             "... It came in the afternoon on
          the river The doctor took her
          dead; say he died of
          cold: I know I died of love.

             
          
          "There in the icy vault, put
          it in two banks: I kissed his hand sharp I kissed her white shoes.

             
          
          "Quiet, the dark, I called
          the undertaker: I've never seen him at death of love!

             ".
          
          Martí inspired other passions, other
          women, but perhaps none so pure and beautiful as that inspired the
girl of Guatemala, the lily hand and forehead pure, light and music
made flesh .... And when the order of the Minister of War he took
the leadership Normal School of that country, his friend and countryman
Jose Maria Izaguirre, quit jobs and honors and came to Cuba, and signed
peace Zanjón in 1878.

             Havana welcomed him warmly. First
          went to work as a lawyer,
          but not swear his title
          at law gift Nicolas and Miguel Azcarate Viondi, turning then to know
of his countrymen as a speaker, in remarkable speeches and lectures
at the Lyceum of Guanabacoa, and a toast made in a banquet in honor
of the great journalist Adolfo Marquez Sterling.

             Four were Marti spoke many
          times at the Lyceum
          of Guanabacoa. The first
          of realism in art; the second on his friend, the poet Alfred Torroella,
which drew tears, the third on the dramas of José Echegaray, and the
fourth, on the renowned violinist Diaz Albertini.

             The latter was attended by General
          Blanco, Captain General of
          the island then, and notable
          personalities Cubans and Spaniards.

             And he says Miguel Martí spoke
          Viondi so, homeland and freedom
          that General White left
          the party Mr. Azcarate said: "I do not remember what I've heard and
never conceived not said before me, representing the Government Spanish:
I think that is crazy ...».

             Martí He added, "but a
          dangerous madman." Despite
          excessive work and his dedication
          to literature, Martí did not leave a conspiring day since arriving
in Havana.

His home was a center of conspiracy and a temple of art there met so soon, men at arms and action,
to talk of war, as men gathered of knowing and thinking to speak of "sighs and laughter, colors
and notes." Later, the same White general, believing - as was true - complicated in that outbreak of
revolution 1879, asked him to join the public protest the Government of Spain, to which he indignantly
replied: "Martí is not the race of salable." And he was again deported Spain, where he fled soon after,
going to Paris and thence to New York, where they continued conspiring, conspiracy which culminated
in him landing in Cuba of Calixto Garcia General glorious pierced the forehead. And when he saw the
failure of that attempt and felt the painful reality, he went to Caracas, the city of Bolivar,
where he brought together around his many admirers and friends. In Caracas, he taught public
speaking to a youth valuable. Several times a week for two hours, his eloquent voice rang in
the middle of students listened in awe. And one of those recorded that "in a session oratory,
served as his subject the people of Israel, and expressive language and sublime Enarr the wonders
of the exceptional people 'that was not possible to say beautiful things poetry, but "when he was considered
at the summit of Mount Nebo and introduced Israelites and Moses viewed the promised land, his eloquence
was new, surprising, and shortly before this sublime spirit seemed transformed by the modesty
of the quasi-divine ideas. "