 

The anxious tone of amazement with which he made that question seemed
sincere.

- Come, come!

Do you still make me lose more time? Does it hurt to see you lost? Do not you know that woman you
loved? Do not you realize that the responsibility such ruin moral burden on you alone? "Pretend
you wonder after he lied? You lied when he acknowledged to be the lover of his fellow, but this
lie, so least, was almost severed by the hope of saving her, but why do you hide feelings he
professed to another miserable lately? ...

The prince trembled Natzichet had told the truth.

- And were you going to talk about the sudden resurrection of His love to those who loved him an
accomplice of rebellion, jealousy and bigotry at the same time they woke up in it, and encourages
against those unhappy! ... Now you are shocked, shakes you, after you have made two victims? ...
And why you have hidden all this? Would not you did, then, for generosity towards the defendant,
but by an entirely different feeling: fear that if I had known momentum is how you wake up in
the late passion, could and should have suspected more informed you?

Then the Prince, raising his head resolutely staring at the eyes of the judge, replied a hollow
voice:

- Do not tell you why I have not said.

You know the truth, why do not you let me free? What more do you want?

VIII

CHARTER

When newspapers published the news that closed the investigation, it was of chords confessions of
Zakunine Natzichet and the Countess d'Arda had been killed the nihilist,
and that the defendant Deferio charge to the jury trial, curiosity
the public which had grown enormously in recent days, finally quieted.

The denying suicide, triumphed to see confirmation of the arguments that had opposed the incredible
hypothesis: but on the other side was not very big disappointment, because although the secrecy
of judicial investigations, it was known that Alejandra Natzichet, killing the Countess, had
only to obey the desire, almost to the intimation of his desperate victim.

This does not mitigate the murder trial that was the object. Only partly believed the reason argued
for it, that the unfortunate had died only to return Italian fellow
and restore freedom to the game, it seemed credible to those who had
high idea of ??sectarian zeal, but most acknowledged that it had joined
the jealousy of loving women to determine the crime.

And if the inspired ferocity of the rebel terror, spared no jealousy of the woman, even the most
lenient for the crimes of love denied the nihilistic passion of every good quality, the deemed
cold, hard, savage.

And while the nihilistic thus appeared in a sad light, Zakunine detractors, not retract at
all, they recognized the innocence of it. They could not fully repent of their trials, they
saw that he was the source of all evil, and said they could only relevársele responsibility
of the crime. The more lenient he credited his attempts to save the murderer, but the most severe,
however, still accused him that: the risk of being condemned with
her trying to save her, he is not confirmed it, the more evident that
both were liable to the same penalty? The feeling was unanimous reason,
finally, Roberto candle plant, which from all appearances had insisted
believe in the offense, and getting finally avenge his beloved