 I say to both that may occur to some economists As with certain
philologists who study a language, say, Chinese or Arabic, so by principles, such recondidez
grammar and so deeply, then no one understands, nor do they understand each other, or fail to understand
the true Chinese and Arabs by birth, declaim against them, claiming that they are ignorant of the
literary dialect or speech Mandarin, and do not know their own language, but in a vernacular,
routine and all unintelligible to scholars, but the truth is that rather than lament, perhaps
therefore not serve to dragomans.

Perhaps this explains the way, when I went traveling in a wild country, I was right to explain
what it was that a friend of mine, great engineer, who insisted on guiding us with their science
does not hit ever, and we almost did not sink and buried in muddy puddles or we lost in dark
woods, where we had eaten the wolves. I was always with the heart in her mouth, but not for
a moment doubted the science. What I argued was that this land was so rough yet, not understood
the science and revealed against it. Then returned to trust the leadership of our trip to the practical
guide and lay it before we had served and we, the term that we proposed.

Could happen, finally, consisting of political economy, if I remember correctly, several parties,
such as: the creation of wealth, its circulation, its distribution and consumption, we thoroughly
studied over here last party, and have rather neglected the study of First, regarding it as
impossible to learn anything, and saying humble and Christian with the poet:

    It's raising a job That
    only God knows With its
    infinite power.

I live so sure of this truth, I never wanted engulfed in the mare-magnum of Political Economy,
having for so complicated this whole machinery of society, which even remotely have fallen
into the temptation to find out what are the springs that move and what the basis on which it is
based. I've always been afraid to come to events the economist as a child that moved from curiosity,
toy breaks to see what has inside. My purpose in writing this obrilla is not, therefore, devise
economically about money: give lessons on the most readily available. Who knows, since So I
find out if, despite my unblemished philanthropy, I had to keep silence, at least for a few
years, profiting from it for my private use and the occasional another very beloved friend?
My purpose is only to talk about the influence that money exerts souls: that is, I do not
treat here of Political Economy, but of moral philosophy, exposing some philosophical thoughts about
money, sometimes born of my own meditation, prayer of the deep mind of the ancient and modern
scholars I have consulted