 They could be Malaga, as assumed that ignorant. Confusing
to Seville with Malaga is a crass error as a philanderer Andalusian that women should know as
a hunter mistaking a quail with a dove. It was also clear that she was married, among other reasons
because, if both single, would not go alone. The marriage was the brunette. In this no doubt. Known
in older, and in other evidence that together all reached the most complete certainty. Who was
married the brunette? Both were outsiders, new to Madrid, since no one knew. It was not probably
had come to Madrid to have fun, because then the husband, farmer, rancher, merchant or something,
some people in Andalusia and Seville itself, should have accompanied and he also amuse and curiosearía.
The husband should be a busy man. What occupation could have a husband in Madrid, but of a government
employment? The Count therefore decided that the husband was an employee. Calculated, finally, by
air had something mysterious the unknown, of some concern to note that he had believed in them,
that night they were in the Gardens had been without previous permission of the husband, improvising
that trip at a time when he was missing from home, save loyalty to tell the prudent course for to approve
and legitimize the fact. If all this assumption was accurate, the husband sometimes worked at
night, home away from home. At night he works in many offices; but none are as common as the
long evenings in the Interior or Finance. The husband was, therefore, employed in one of these
two ministries.

Discovered the enigma to this point, needed to know the name of the
husband and where he lived; but this was very easy.

Before the appropriate investigations, as the name of a person and number and street of a house
can not be guessed by mere speech, even if you have an understanding excruciating, Count, fond of exercising
his thought also below.

Fashionable society is easier, more open in Madrid than in any other
European capital, even for women