 But as missing and the right, and begin to discover your evil
intention, far from producing the good effects that are promised in this submissive offer only
served to act as tyrants more. Rogábales humbly, and tried to dissuade alleged complaints with
the Europeans, he said to them that everything was false and fabricated by malice of those who
persuaded them otherwise, but more angry with these means of gently, began to manage their slings,
rehearsing the way she had to use them.

These are the causes from which it originated so cruel rebellion against the majesty and Europeans;
but I'll add another to my view is the main foundation of this bloody event. They made 10 years, who
undergoes a total backlog of work of mine, so that now there was no one to carry formal work,
or could pay to the owner as necessary to their preservation and rotating, being the only thing
that supported the neighborhood, which brought the total decline miners to their constitution
so unfortunate that those who were counted in the main, and other times possessed flow bounds,
as were Rodriguez, Herrera, Galleguillos and others were in a state of destitution, discovered
in many thousands, and the King, as with other individuals, without being able to pay, or
continue the work of their work, lack media. The Europeans, who were the only enablers, no longer
wanted to supply them with much some, and desperate to find no remedy for distress, and chancel
debts, plotted This rebellion, which will be uncertain times to come, by all deaths, robberies,
sacrilege, desecration and other cruelties egecutaron.

Forced the militants, the many prayers and persuasions that were used by several sugetos, entered
the barracks, after the prayer of that day, Feb. 10, not stay in it as other nights, but only to
deceive their masters with this apparent obedience, and with a view to give them the loans
that they had assigned. While were paid, were heard in the streets and squares, many voices and
screams of boys and others mob, who firing stones with slingshots, they put the people in quite some
consternation. A question this time played with the bell of the matrix, as had been prevented
for that all came together for the post said. Practicáronlo well, but could not find out who
have touched, or that order, forcing the mayor to bet a company should command in every corner
of the square, if it had some unexpected assault. When they were taking these and other provisions
to guard, he heard the sound of various horns, which one extremity to another or correspond
to confirm the entry of Indians as was decided that some saliesen to reconnoiter, who returned
with the news that there was no one in that neighborhood, and cracked the case, found that those
who blew the trumpets, were two black D. Jacinto Rodriguez, D. Nicolas de Herrera, and Isidore
Quevedo, that together with this news for Europeans, they were easier to get your desperate attempt.
Insured these that there was nothing to fear from the Indians, somewhat reassured, and went
to dinner together at home Endeiza. But the first dish put on the table, entered D. Joseph Cayetano
de Casas, shedding much blood, a dangerous thrust, which had given the natives, because they
stood as to fall around the corner matrix, which was keeping with his company, and while referring
their misfortune and some claimed was the conspiracy of the natives against them, they heard
that flashed from thousands of square stones and balconies towards the house, and determined
to defend themselves to the last extremity, took the firearms they had, to fire on rioters and
resist the insult: but detúvolos the same owner, D. José de Endeiza, sugeto of exemplary life,
knowing who it was inevitable death of all, they reasoned that, full of Christian zeal which animated
him. "Come, friends and colleagues, there is no remedy, we all die, it is verified to be the sedition
against us: we have more crime than being European, and having collected our flow, to secure
them, sight of the natives. Comply at all the will of God, we do not lack the confidence of
his mercy and forgiveness we hope it of our sins: and therefore we shall give account to the court
as fair, do not do any death or relocate this crime to the presence of God, and so you seek to
shoot their guns air, and without thinking smite any: maybe just get the sound intimidating, and
make their escape. "Thus, with tears in his eyes, pulled the line prevented, which proves not
to have hurt any of the natives with more than 200 shots fired, and even then it wanted to
assert the opposite, was an invention of the authors of the mutiny.

The tumultuantes angry, furious and full of anger, flashed a hondazos against balconies, and
others tried to burn down the house.

The women were employed in hauling stones the more solid and stronger than found in the mines,
taking care not to men is missing provision. 4.000 already passed the mutineers, increased risk
of Europeans, locked Endeiza's house, and waited for a few moments were a victim of the mob. To
avoid this, left the Church of the Blessed Sacrament of Mercy, whose diligence did not help
anything than to increase the crime of those barbarians with the greatest sacrilege: for detached
of all humanity, also missed the veneration and respect due to the God of heaven and earth, because
they ignored the real presence, and continued the assault on the house. The magistrate, rather
than hear any shooting, went to the house of D. Manuel de Herrera, and he strongly urged go
out with him through the streets to appease the tumult, to see if we got their respect what
had not been achieved after having used many means, to which he answered no was time, and played happily
with the priest of Sorasora, D. Isidoro Velasco and others, to whom little interest was consternation
in the village. Seeing the mayor disillusioned, and made sure that sought to take his life,
was obliged to undertake escape to save her, and from the same household as Herrera took the
field without carrying prevention one for the road, and taking of Cochabamba, managed to take refuge
in the town, capital of that province.

Rioters continued their investigation, and not to faint from the company, shouted some in the streets:
- "Come, Creole and Creole, carrying stones to slay escutcheons for
they were our enemies, "and irritate and inspire the minds, they said
sometimes "And took his head to Don Jacinto Rodriguez:" others "have
killed 30 civilians ours."

But among them who excelled more than all was D. Juan Montesinos, who said to great Voices:
- "Go both men and women to my house and take out wood and straw to set fire, and finish escutcheons
with these traitors, "as practiced immediately, fire balconies and main store, which, forced to
leave through the roof these unfortunate European were passed to the neighboring houses. Then
they warned, they took all the avenues and Finding no other recourse but to flee by the front
door, were resolved to egecutarlo, but seized with a furious crowd of natives, they would kill
and would out, until they were torn apart and unknowable. While some were engaged in these cruelties,
and burn the house, some in conjunction with the women, looted shops and high houses, where up
to 700,000 pesos treasured the Europeans themselves, and others, would have persuaded the
insurance, placed in his power, in the species of gold, silver sealed, rods, cones, effects
of Castilla and the earth: having already looted before the store of a creole, called Pantaleon
Martinez, on the pretext that it was complicit in the course attempt by Europeans, for which
reason was to lose all their assets, and die with them.

At five in the morning of day 11 could be seen as the pitiful sight of many dead lying in the
streets, naked and so shattered, that needed to be examined with great prolixity to know. Not content
with this revenge, were sent to the site carrying outrageous roll, and then passed them to the
threshold of the prison where they were held two days most of them
being fed to the dogs.

It is understood in this misfortune, D. José Endeiza, D. Juan Blanco, D. Miguel Salinas, D.
Juan Pedro Ximenez, D. Juan Vicente Larra, D. Sunday Pavia, D. Ramon Llano, D. Cayetano José
Casas, D. Antonio Sanchez, D. Francisco Palazuelos others were unknown, and five black. Followed the
murderers taking on clear day egecutaban the thefts, saying publicly what they had won a great
war, and that I played right, and going to prison after they opened the doors, drove out all prisoners,
and then left saying in a loud voice, Long live our chief justice, D. Jacinto Rodriguez, walking
together with great mirth and joy, touching boxes and trumpets him out of his house, made him
turn to the main square, and repeating the cheers, I turned to her, and having gone to the
priest vicar the balconies of the chapter house, to ask what it was seeking to appease, all
answered with one voice: - We by Chief Justice Don Jacinto Rodriguez, and others that the mayor
and then go escutcheons the place, banished to view our.

At noon of the day began to get some pieces of Indians, playing their loud horns, and armed with
slingshots and sticks. With horror of nature could be seen that after filing the obedience
to D. Jacinto, to ensure their customary demonstrations of performance, they were coming to defend
his life, which gratified expressions generously Salian running together with the natives to see
the dead, so fierce unloaded again their anger against the mangled
corpses, giving clubs, trying all bloody their hands and bathe in
that innocent blood.

From there they went to the houses of D. Manuel Herrera, the captain Menacho, and his brother
D. Antonio Quiros, whom he distinguished with equal honors. The rest of the afternoon he was
employed to examine the houses where some had presumed flow for plunder, and to recognize the
most secret places where they suspected had been hiding some European, those who had liberated
the night before. Continued to enter in Indian troops, who were convened in the vicinity. They
came with white flags, and left the natives to receive them, giving them lots of hugs, and urged them
to ensure the entry to the mother church in search of fugitives Europeans, and when they could
not if any to the hands, at least, is hiciesen deliver the weapons they had hidden in it. Got this
because the cure, so as not to violate the sacred, were given several pistols and swords; but
not happy with them, demanding that others with insolence, and not taking the cure so to please,
determined to get to the top of the roll to preach, and be discipline in public, which act far to
soften, they provoked laughter, and insolent again, he fired some hondazos, with their effective
insinuation made him good to get off quickly. In that time he had taken in procession Prior of
San Agustin, together with the communities of San Francisco and La Merced, the devotional statue
of the Holy Christ of Burgos, carried in procession through the streets, squares and outskirts
of the village, but the old one with him: and without any appreciation or respect as sacred image,
the Creoles occupied, together with the Indians, in plundering the house of Corregidor. And when he
begged the Father Prior would be directed down the street from the Inn of Jerusalem, to see if
it contained the Indians who were knocking down the door of the store of D. Francisco Resa, I egecutó,
but nothing could get, whether caused by the Indians began to declare his apostasy to the Catholic
religion, which until then had professed judged: it said aloud, that this image is not supposed
more than any piece of maguey or pasta, and as these and other deceptions were suffering by
painters.

He was beginning to feel the consternation that caused the Indians, who had entered the town in the
space of 6 hours, the number went from 4,000, convened by D. Jacinto Rodriguez and partial, one
of them said to enter the time of Paria, which came in peace, for the day before had left 25 sugetos
to stop and hinder his coming, because they were not longer needed, when he had achieved the desired
success. But the news had looting and flow that still existed, was no incentive to obey the
order of retire, and multiplied so that it is incredible the excessive
number as he walked the streets, divided into troops, playing their
horns, and firing stones with slings, so that all people of distinction
Christianity and was sheltered in churches, imploring the mercy of
the Almighty, and expecting instant death.

During the night occupied in looting homes and shops of Europe. D. Francisco Rodriguez, the mayor,
the priest pastor and other priests, tried on 12 in the morning to contain the robberies,
which were egecutando shop and house of D. Manuel Bustamante, but nothing could get, because
burst in these voices: "Death to the Mayor, because he knew his countrymen insult" to this
Indians continued shouting, district, commune, word they used when they wanted to kill or
stealing, as if to say all at one. Not verified this havoc, because the mayor managed to get
in safety through the same turmoil.

The opening day 13 sent Cabildo D. Jacinto Rodriguez, and when they boasted was to take some Providence,
just went to that received from Chief Justice, who had employment possessed with only the authority
of the rebels. Before going into the chapter house, he approached the gates of the main church,
and made some demonstrations of wanting to hold the Indians, who tried to enter and desecrate
the temple, looking to the Europeans, so the priest had resisted until then: but persuaded by
Rodriguez and D. Manuel de Herrera, agreed as to fall twelve of the most major. The pretext
was to remove only the mayor, which they believed was in the Bobeda. The priest assured them
that there was such, however simple or maliciously added that four Europeans had already confessed.
Indians who desired nothing, burned anger, and full of fury entered
the church by force, opened Bobeda, and Indian more daring than men,
penetrated the most hidden.

They found none, but as was both the desire for revenge against the mayor, got out the coffin, which
had deposited the body of D. Francisco Mollinedo, postmaster, who had a few days before deceased;
mandáronlo unpinning, believing the mayor was inside, but not finding, took the knife and
unloaded on the corpse, its fury, giving many stabs. Went afterwards to recognize the second time
the church, and found Don Miguel State, which killed in the same cemetery also found Don Miguel
Bustamante, and bringing the web Town Council, presented him with Don Live Jacinto Rodriguez,
was asked if he had to kill, and having decided as they entered the jail, to load the prison,
ignored of the order, and said loudly: "You have called us to kill escutcheons, and now you want to only
enter the prison, they should not be so "and using common voice commune, killing one unhappy. Continued
desecrating the temple, peering with light the most hidden places him, cercáronle, and brought
out D. Vincent D. Fierro and Francisco Resa of a neighboring house, whom they also killed.

Primed and Indian temples desecrate and kill the Europeans, entered the church and convent San
Agustin, found in the street with D. Agustin Arregui, Creole, and wanting to kill because they found
Europe to escape, he said: "I am not escutcheon, but Creole: entered the convent, where five escutcheons
with their weapons. "But for sure, they took him with them, and after having sought the most secret
places, gave cruel death, because not having found them, were persuaded wanted to get away with
this deception. There were those who be notified shortly after the hiding place to search, and
re-entering with bent fury, Don found Ventura Ayarra, D. Pedro Martinez, D. Francisco Antonio
Cacho and a Frenchman, who had taken an hour before the habit of religion: those who perished
also to the hands of those barbarians.

14 day dawned surrounded by a multitude of Indians Convent of Mercy, and to ensure Dam climbed
to the roof, and going with the biggest insult in the church, recognized
all, and finding under the mantle of Our Lady of Dolores, Don José
Bullain, pulled him out to shove, and killed him.

They returned in droves to the church, and found that those who had been taken out to D. Jose Ibarguen,
woman dress, costume it took to be confused with sex, and while praying with others, accused
him a native. Acometiéronle furious known for shoes and torn from the arms of his own consort,
whom the pain forced to leave in pursuit of her husband, and whom he consoled the murderers, to say
"Do not cry, we do not our fault, because they will egecutamos by order of D. Jacinto Rodriguez.
"He ran in search of a pardon, but when he returned, found her husband naked, torn. At that
moment found below a walk to a black slave D. Azero Diego, and he gave the same death. Followed
these and other cruelties, which were increased with the coming than 6,000 Indians from Sorasora,
who united to the others, looking with equal fury and care to the Europeans: they found in
a loft to D. Pedro Lagran, who had freed her life the first night
of mayhem, and led him into the place where he finished in the same
manner than the others.

This was seen hit by ambition and greed of four or six sugetos, the greatness of the All-Mighty,
desecrated their temples, neglected their sacred images usurped the immunity of churches and the homes
of Rodriguez, as these were the best asylum to escape death, as did so many Europeans, either
by the partnerships an old friendship, and to provide coverage or their heinous crimes, with
some pious deeds: but the Lord's house, altars and shrines were polluted, neglected and abused
by this vile villain.

At night, the Indians forsake the Convent of Mercy, he fought in D. José Knight, D. José Lorzano,
and D. Manuel Puch, for the diligence of a religious, but believing the commander that the seditious
incendiary church because of this forced them to leave to a house they had designed, dressed in ordinary
attire. The unfortunate D. José Knight with the confusion was separated from the others, and
was compelled to remain among the tumultuous, until midnight, which led him to being discovered
D. Jacinto Rodriguez Having said he did not know him, ended at the hands of traitors, with the
most cruel death can devise iniquity. They were also victims of their fury 14 blacks of Europe,
no more crime to be their slaves. Looting followed consecutively 20 houses, and according to
prudent regulation, ascendjeron theft up to two million pesos, having died Europeans not only contained
the villa, but also those of all the surroundings, which heads wore the Indians, to introduce
the new Chief Justice, who made them bury clandestinely.

Confidence wavered and D. Jacinto Rodriguez, and began to fear that had them called, joined the
Indians, and prevent them be maintained after only one day in the village, offered boxes would
give them real weight to each, which fact the next egecutó day 15,
with no more authority than they please: and agreed with royal officials
opened doors of the treasure of King, and extrageron four pouches,
and sending them back together, it I fulfilled that promise, and made
them understand by the priest, who had no need remaining within the
population, and each received weight, to withdraw their stays.

"My children, he told me, as your priest and vicar, and on behalf of the whole neighborhood,
I give due thanks for the faithfulness with which you came to defend, escutcheons killing these
rogues, we wanted to take life to betray all Creoles a thousand times thank you, and I pray
you retire to your homes, and as it I have seen, are dead, and if you had incurred any excommunication
or censure Make every act of contrition, to receive absolution. "