 Whoever said that religious country
until the stones have a heart to throb D. Carlos, to cast pumpkins hands to pick up guns. The
bells there, when they play at Mass say "no more Masons' and date on which the war the men of
the earth will be able to conquer Europe while women conquer the rest of Spain .... Well, very
good .... How you To see that gentleman? I warn you that is hidden.

- No matter: I only talk about family matters. Last summer was the Farm but I could not see,
because he always refused to receive me. Now I will be easier, because You will write two words.

-
I will be happy, but I warn you that Mr. D. Carlos is sick liver.

It is already has done so much work! He is a tireless champion of good teachings. Last night
he complained of dreadful pains, and, strange to a man so religious, ji, ji, relied more the
demons that the Blessed Virgin. If you want to be sure that you want to interview, we'll tell Father
Gracian, a Jesuit, excellent subject that comes here some evenings, and then we usually go to drink
chocolate Maroto's house, where the Father is Carasa .... Well, thanks a friend of Mr. D.
Carlos, and has long been proposed that reconcile him with his wife .... Oh! is a falcon for
the good Father Gracian reconciliations.

- I know. It is a worthy priest who has the best intentions, and if it fails bring happiness to all
mankind because God does not want .... In conclusion, you entiéndanse and Father Gracian for
me to see Mr. Navarro and talk about an issue that is not political and only he and I are both interested.
Does he live ...?

- Do not know if I should tell you right now, before the same Mr. D. Carlos, beautiful person,
hee, hee ... before the same Mr. D. Carlos Navarro to leave for you
to display.

And I'll fix it. Come back tomorrow for this home.

After Salvador was, D. Felicísimo wrote a letter in which over after
draw three crosses, put it: A Lady Doña Maria de la Paz Porreno, street
of Bethlehem.

-III-

The poor lady almost lived in the same narrowness
in 1822, because the removal policies friendly social and stopped
at the door of the house, which was without doubt one of the best
museums of fossils that then existed in Spain.

The periods of time prevailing absolutism were to thrive in the house and plenty of cupboards Porreñanas
the same as those prevailing in the vile villain of the clubs. So in point facilities and supplies
the dying Marquis would have ended a disaster like the empires have been formidable if not come
to his aid an industry that, while is somewhat prosaic, there is something noble for being associated
with hospitality. The two illustrious As unfortunate ladies chamber to house a respectable
gentleman so rich in seasons, sometimes very long, that the subject spent in Madrid. The treatment
was excellent, good pay, and harmony between the host and the ladies so perfect that the three
looked like brothers. Familiarity enhanced by respect and a dignified simplicity reigned in the silent
house seemed inhabited by shadows.

Well, that is, to what historians know that with modest financial benefits honestísimo acquired
by that environment had renewed the ladies of the unfurnished, although All antiques are preserved,
supported by patches and polished by the time and toilet.

Wonderful thing! the hourglass 2 had returned to walking, but from malice or watchmaker by a
mechanical mystery impossible to penetrate, walked back, and well after midnight was eleven,
then ten and so on. Table of Saints of the Order Dominica had been restored by the same Doña Paz,
old man assisted by a skilled carpenter, clerk and binder, and filler here, goop there, with
half a dozen black brushstrokes in the shadows and a good coat of varnish car across the surface,
had been as the day he was born. For the same style had been saved from complete ruin the polls
saints and the cornucopias, which no longer have their windows but irregular spots quicksilver
seemed a collection of maps. What is new, it was very humble, was in straw chairs, gingham
curtains, hems of mat colors, but glad the house and his ancient matalotaje. In such a way that
ghastly image of yore laughed in his grave.

By the time we find that again, Doña María de la Paz was coming swiftly apoplectic old age, going
to her with gouty feet, shaky head, shoulders crass and neck. Her hair, however, blacks were
kept the same as the lunar and was pursuing her white hair like liberals, and gave no quarter
to none, being as ruthless with them when they came in droves and
could not pull them up for fear of becoming in the pure hull, outfitting
dressed in black so that no one knew.

So when this operation was not done with skill (because the forces had diminished the view)
appeared the temples and forehead marred with some dark clouds over them Snow glistened mimicking
a wonderful winter landscape.

Doña María Salomé was so mummified that seemed to have been sent in those days Egypt had just been
unpacked for display to the curiosity of lovers ethnography. Set at a low saddle, which had
become part of his person, took care to fix frills to decorate, and saw his side in various
wicker baskets, moth-eaten feathers, ribbons gloomy shades, silk cloth, faded and wrinkled autumn
leaves, all infused with a certain smell of perfume mixed tomb of
camphor.

Gossips say that clothes make up the pieces and sewed them in the same skin, also said that
eating camphor to be preserved, and was lined in suede. Malicious nonsense is this that serious
historians should not ignore.

One morning .... Forgot to say that the house had a large back room that opened onto a patio
or very spacious corral, from which the sun almost all day. In the piece tended Doña Peace of laundry
at home. From wall to wall was all strings, and when they were full of clothes, it was like
a wet rag forest. Well, one morning he walked Dona Maria Peace for those malls toilet when he
came Doña María Salomé, and giving a letter they had just brought home, said:

- A letter to Mr. D. Carlos. Comes with about you, but it is for him. Look at the three crosses.
The lyrics seem to Mr. D. Very happy.

- It's when you'll wake up - said Dona Paz -. The poor guy has had a very bad night.

- By the way - said Mrs. Salome with very serious face, which revealed an apprehension careful -
we certainly did not know if it should receive letters this way.

This can give rise to conflicting interpretations of our honor and
reputation.

Neighbors hear all ... see that we get letters ... are coming here at night many men .... I do not
know I do not know ...

- Shut up, woman - Doña Paz said, poking his head through the branches - white. What can suspicious
of us?

- You can drop a flawless woman on our reputation - Salome said a
very bad mood -.

You know you is not enough to be honest, but seem to be, and two ladies alone, like us, have to
be careful to not go in the languages ??of malware.

- Always a fool! - Murmured Dona Maria de la Paz disappearing into
the thickest of the forest of clothing.

- I am determined to speak
clearly to Mr. D. Carlos - added the other -.

Nobody likes him more than I, but the men come and go at all hours of day and night is not in
accordance with what has always been our home. What? I can not get used: I am. I say and I
repeat, I will talk to Mr. D. Carlos.

- No more missing but Mr. D. dizzy Carlos with such impertinence - Doña Paz said reappearing canvas in
a mall.

- I say and I repeat .... In addition, colleagues, assistants or whatever Mr. D. Carlos, considerations
did not keep us we deserve. What else? ... Yesterday I did not finish comb when that barbaric
Zugarramurdi entered my room without permission .... And what! to
tell me if I had seen one of his spurs, he could not find.

- Nonsense
.... Lower your voice .... I think that has attracted Mr. Navarro.

Appeared at the door a huge beard that a man was stuck.

Among that enormous brown fleece came out dry and bland voice said: - Chocolate.

- Then, Mr. Zagarramurdi. Take this letter that you have brought to
Mr. D. Carlos.

How are you today?

- Mal - the beard said turning around and disappearing he had come.

- What ways! - Salome murmured, turning to his room -. There are no gentlemen.

Navarro lived in the same room occupied some years earlier by a woman who died in odor of sanctity. Little
or no change had the piece, which seemed more than cabinet chapel, or rather an abbreviated
transcript of the court of heaven, because everything in it was Santico painted and bulk,
relics, pictures of shrines and monasteries, embroidered hearts,
palm hearts, and an altar complete with tin candlesticks, chandeliers
hanging from the ceiling, their missals and three bandages chasubles
cardboard paper, in an attitude of celebrating Mass sung.

Completed decoration is a huge sword hanging from the same nail hold it an embroidered baby Jesus
on canvas, two shotguns move in with a corner, two gloves and two fencing masks with two pairs
of foils, three suitcases and a man widely used.

This man was seated or rather submerged in an armchair, his legs hidden under thick blanket
down to his waist, his head bent over his chest and so still seemed asleep or dead. A brazier
well past cisco showed his pile of ash glazed fire near the package that should contain individual's
foot, which if ever there was showed signs of giving them cold. His face was dark shooting
green because of pallor and whites of the eyes was not white but
yellow.

The coarse black hair was quite gray, and generally saw the powerful head resting in a black
hand, toast, whose twisted veins and tendons and muscles remembered the hand that D. Quixote
Maritornes taught when they hung the skylight of the sale.

In a small table near the guerrilla was taking medication cards that read, snuff, a book, a rosary
and a gun. Drinking and smoking: alternating with readings, was his occupation boring precursor
hour of the night insomnia. Not like that friends give her conversation. His best friend was
the wisest of all, silence.

But Oricain Zugarramurdi and had a resource to distract him, but not for long. Pulled the foil,
and then the eyes of the guerrilla is encouraged, following closely
the movements Duelists of the sham and even threw a sharp word or
a teacher's comment between the steel grating.

But suddenly said 'enough' and the two athletes let loose foil and took off the mask, bringing
to light the face sweaty.

At that time seemed Zagarramurdi prehistoric man stuffed in his ferocious beards, and Oricain,
the formidable bear Navarre lost much in beauty, because the wire mask concealing ugliness.

That
day (we refer to date of the letter D. Felicísimo) D. Carlos soon
tired than ever.

- Stop thrusts - he said -.

Zugarramurdi, stop by the house of Don Thomas and tell Zumalacárregui I hope that tomorrow. Oricain,
get me my rosary and vote. When the father Gracian enter and if I sleep, I wake up .... Today
we do not like.

After the siesta came the Father Gracian. He was a tall strapping young man of thirty and eight
or forty years old, dark, thick lips, nose aberenjenada, roughly the and tanned skin, and
made expressly by God to withstand the scorching weather tropical and polar ice.

His beard was so black and thick that even shave the same day leaving a dark spot entire lower
face. Herculean forces that should be arrogant grenadier of the Church, and if the point of
view was admirably body set up to mission, was no less in the spiritual, as a man of many wisdoms
most learned in the sacred letters and quite strong in the profane, eloquent in the pulpit and persuasive
in conversation, in the chair eagle and lynx in the confessional. Also knew of medicine and had
passed through miraculous cures. Grandon was so that his cloak seemed to have a piece of cloth, and
when concluded muffled never take no cloth in the wind. His hat tile did not measure less than
a yard, and as always had a little pushed back and his body hunched
forward, looked like he was carrying a heavy beam.

Their oversized feet, buried in cloth shoes, stepped to the weight and grip of the robust plant
espadrille causeway that hits like a sledgehammer tiles docks and warehouses.

After greeting with affability the partisan ill chosen, sat down beside him and putting his hand over
his cassock some openings behind which had pockets so deep as the sea, began to make several paper
cones similar in size and shape those who are in stores to hold two
quarts of sugar, coffee or aniseed.

As pulled them out of was turning on the bedside table and looked at the rotulillo that his
handwriting was written on each.

- What is that? - Asked Navarro chopped curiosity, suspecting that his friend had grocery stores.

-
This is the land of the route from San Ignacio in Manresa, a relic that people ask a lot devotees.
Today I received a small shipment, and distributed among friends who have time have asked
me .... If you have forgotten the cone of Doña Maria de la Paz .... Ah! not here is. I will
do you the favor of giving it.

These others are for the Honourable Countess of Rumble to the nuns of Góngora, for Mr. D.
Peter King, who has had to death PerfectIt your beautiful girl, and
several other families ....

Then put away the cones in their pockets
unfathomable as the sea, and after giving violent slap on the knee
of the guerrilla, said:

- I see that you are better .... That face
is another .... Soon you will be fine.

The guerrillas gave a sigh and smiled.

Both demonstrations showed disbelief prognosis and gratitude for the consolation.

- Soon, very soon, when the time comes to settle on the battlefields of the question established
between the Almighty and the Masons, the Most High will be without
their most valiant Maccabeus.

- That's what I pray with all the fervor
of my soul - Navarro said casting bitterness mouth and eyes - and
that God will grant me.

- I have for me - said the cleric with great
faith - that God is not an arm amputated as powerful .... Your illness
is worth nothing, I repeat worthless.

No injury, repeat no injury. It is a depression caused by an accumulation bilious, whose origin
we to search the hard life of you and the domestic troubles that have embittered his soul. The soul,
the soul, sir, is the diseased, and the soul has to apply medicine. What is this? It is a sweet
comforting trust is achieved by mixing with indulgence peace and piety.

Navarro said in his face without saying a word, the disgust that caused him issue already raised
many times, but without fruit, by the venerable Father Gracian.

-
No, you do not pucker between the eyebrows - he said this, showing
decided -.

I will not give, but when you pull me their friendship and throw me in your home.

- That no ....

- Well if that does not, you resign yourself to feel the big fly in
her ear.

What say the blowfly? Tell you will not have health while having no peace in your spirit, and
will not have peace in your spirit while he has no family. And when you have family? When reconciled
with his wife, after her repentance and forgiveness of you. Repentance, forgiveness! On these
two poles you move the vast world of souls. All moral knowledge is condensed into these two ideas
that establish the relationship between man and God ....

Navarro wanted to talk.

- No, I do not accept reply on this.

What I say and just - said the Jesuit, strong in authority -. When I have raised you encouraging
them to solve this problem, and is understood there can be no dishonor to you. The real shame is to
shut their ears to warnings of the Church that tells husbands: "Love one another, unite." The judgments
of the world are wicked and vain. Should they ignore a religious man and wise? No. What is
the worst counselor man? Pride. And the best? Piety. What does that tell you your pride? said,
'no give in and poisoned by rancor dies before uttering a word lenient. " What says piety? says,
"forgive to be forgiven ».... I know there are reasons apparent strength, but I have studied
the subject with affection and I've seen what you presented as obstacle is not .... God wants
no doubt that this work is carried out, because since I undertook, I see very clearly the way
of it. And what I see? I see that lady boredom of solitude and a lively desire to establish order in
their lives interrupted, I see that far to keep you grudge respects and loves him. I have
come to overcome some resistance that his soul had, and with little to you to help me ....

- Father, father - said D. Carlos breathing hard, because I was struggling
with the unbearable weight of the sermon - that can not be.

There are breaks that can not be welded never, never, in heaven. I suppose you retreat to a desert,
do penance, sanctify me, dying, except me and entered the kingdom of God as blessed, even more,
as a saint. Suppose you also that she regrets her misconduct, receiving God's afflictions and
fair calamities which rots in life, which is removed to make life in the cloister, which then
falls into the hands infidels, the martyr, the burn, the swelter, who dies, who is saved, that
is holy, that is pure as an angel .... Well, suppose you think we are in the sky ....

- And embraced weep tears of forgiveness - said the father was very moved and clasping her
hands.

- No! - Shouted Navarro, and syllable that sounded like a shot.

The Jesuit was perplexed, looking at his friend with horror. He dared not insist on its commitment
to the unchanging harshness of the rock in human form, which was externally all the unevenness
of the rock and all the bitterness inside the sea, but also him,
the Jesuit, was the absence of apparent hardness, endurance and persistent
strength wave