 - And back to the same subject, said Don Candido annoying. Moya, fine and says what you repeated,
but nothing that convinces me, and I explained the cause, the real and true cause Carabalis
my flight. The worst thing is that I suspect you know something and do not want to say before Mr.
Priest and the Captain.

- Well, for them and for toas that Jesus Christ died, Moya said eagerly kissing the five crosses
that had formed with the ten fingers intertwined, I do not know naitica
more.

And if you leave something embuchao, plunged me here damned, and
pardon my moo Nah, you speak.

- Do not curse for so little, said
the priest.

- Register your memory you, Moya, Don Candido said, smiling
to see their plight.

- The fact is, he replied after a brief detention,
I do not know what could occur to be the cause and that could occur
to cause Juya pa that a black man.

Mr. Don Candido said that some black bracelets and not juyen, and
willing said that misuse is the cause of the Maroon.

Well. It also says that Don Candido carabalí are many proud. I say that dogs are mu toos dogs
and more blacks together. Pedro Briche is the head of his ships in the wit. Language always
speaks to them, and the Mayoral is Quemao with him. I know, but not I had never hand over, or
dende who came from Africa I think that you took Naiden blood leather. Well, sir, spends the week
before, Pedro Briche not presented in JILA, or sleep at night in the barracks. What did you
do Don Liborio? The next day go and catch it sotaventao, and gives a few lashes on top of the
shirt, put in the stocks for two days, took command of contramayoral and blew the field to plate.
Is dogged more. I told him to give him a good upside down, but feared that lifted toa Negrao.
Y we have seen the results from the study, went to the mountain with six companions because he was
not punished enough.

- Do not you say? Don Candido said smugly. And he added, before you take off Moya word: - And
what does all that Goyo, the watchman of the road from the beach?
Do you know if you have probed?

- What do you mean?

Moya answered promptly. The pa primerito that was it. Do not see the Lord Don Candido to the
door that your spark plug Mesmer found fresh tracks of blacks who came of the mountain side
there?

Toos but he swore by the saints in heaven who has not seen, heard or NAA in too felt this
time. Don Liborio was heated and wanted to snuggle up against him a few lashes pa to sing, but I
took it off the head, because I thought it was going to get brave lady Dona Rosa as he knew
that papa had castigao the Cayman.

This retail Don Candido walks without healing of those who kept him
company, perhaps to avoid being interrupted in his meditations.

Then, turning suddenly to Moya, in short, imperious tone asked about the Mayoral.

- When I was coming from the pasture, said Moya, he was with people
cutting cane in front of the new tomb.

It should not take longer because, as we must not cut the grass of Guinea pa ate the horses because
there cojollo, people released earlier. Look, here come the carts with the latest rods to
test the machine pa ... Yonder see the herdsman in mule, and further entoavía, on the other
guardarraya, now I see Don Liborio. The cane I cover their dogs and I will not say whether
pueo alone or with people. He comes to riding.

CHAPTER V

     9