 The cells are quite light and fresh air through windows are high
iron and very solid. Each detainee has, in addition to the materials and work tools, his bed, a chair
and some essential furniture that let you eat, sleep, etc.., in absolute isolation. Each cell
door has practiced a small and simple apparatus can monitor the prisoner without his noticing
it. The director and three employees Junior sufficient to timely and rigorous administration
of the establishment. Detainees engaged in the manufacture of shoes, mats and other simple objects
of popular consumption, and the products are intended to cover the costs of establishing and forming
a fund economies of each prisoner, according to the value of their work. The preaching and
religious education given to prisoners is austere, intelligent and affable.

If the confinement in the dungeon, the temporary deprivation of food, the walk in the courtyards,
etc. coercision are means of repression or additional inmate also has powerful incentives to meditate
on their crimes, repent and moralize. In case of good behavior, giving evidence of repentance,
you get more participation in the fruits of their labor, work permit accompanied by one or two more,
but always in silence, and a reduction of penalty that can half of their legal duration. Noticing
that the relapses are rare among men adults, and somewhat common among women and pubescent or prepubescent
when they get no occupation safe to leave the prison. For the rest, in establishing the rule of order,
silence, neatness and economy. The director and one of the guards I expressed the conviction depth
of the effectiveness of the system in every way, although recognized, as others the need for
the cellular system has its complement in a social institution that allows provide instruction
and work for some time the prisoner released, in order that, having being smooth the transition from
confinement and forced labor, freedom to work free, but insecure, avert the dangers of recidivism.
There will come a day, no doubt, that the civilized societies recognize that the correction of
the guilty fruitful and the supreme duty of justice require the close correlation of three institutions:
the place of punishment, school, and the shop or something similar, and that social power does
not have full authority to punish condition but to instruct and moralize the culprit, and
open once repented, Via all rehabilitation infinite: the work and personal independence.

The Prison House has forms and under different conditions, however
the system community.

The building has the outward form of half wagon wheel spokes and three horizontal. In the center
is the facade, which gives onto a three-story lobby to the corresponding the interior. The inner
and lower lobby is semicircular, and parallel to the large semicircle described by two equally
high embankments parallel to each other than separated by an alley, contain all the strength. The center to
the circumference as radios extend two buildings equal and oblong and other intermediate building
crowned by a dome, separated by four walls that enclose patios. All these and the walls are covered
contour the exterior looks and dominated by the dome and some windows to carry out surveillance.
The office of the director and his assistant is inside the peristyle, and in the center the
start of the radios are the gaps that allow inmates to observe and report Through orders the walls
without being seen. Of the three floors of these radios the lower contains the workshops, and
two bedroom upper cells of the prisoners, while in the central part are premises for the service
employees. Under the study, the level of the courts, are the parlor for visits to prisoners,
office and other pieces of furniture.

The entire building, it seems complicated, but actually very simple, cost only 30.000 weight
and only requires an annual expenditure of 5.000, at most, a deficit
the product leaves over expenditure, the work of prisoners.

Can hold 56 inmates, judging by the number of cells, but never has been filled and usually has
only about 46. This number he had when I visited the prison, 12 were repeat offenders, only
7 belonged to canton of Geneva (where there is freedom, instruction and industrial activity)
and most Savoyards was composed of prisoners, belonging to a population too poor, ignorant,
without industry, commerce and communications, sandwiched between the Alps and customs lines.
The large number of prisoners represented the crimes of theft and robbery crimes in the generality
of cases, do not indicate perversion, but misery and lack of education and work. The number of Protestant
and Roman Catholic Canton balances in prison, although in the whole vast majority of Catholics
there.

Each inmate sleeps in his cell in complete isolation. The cells are small but sufficient very clean
and airy, lit by natural light and provided with the modest furniture
necessary.

Prisoners work and take food in common silent absolute and divided into sections according to
their criminality. Eat three meals per day, abundant, easy and healthy, and after each shift to go
out for half an hour outdoors one of the patios. Only one case of evasion has happened so far,
and that negligence a watchman. Inmate never lost any reason not attack the guards. The total confinement
without work or light, and temporary food deprivation or bed to sleep on, are the means of
coercion or repression. The work consists of making prisoners shoes and mats or a pillar grains.
Each of the joint workshops is monitored internally by a guard to win, besides the food and
accommodation, three francs a day. The director, an assistant or secretary, and these guards are
the only active employees of the establishment, and serve him very well. Chaplains attend
Sunday church services to make and moral, without prejudice to its competition accidental.

When an inmate is worthy of consideration, is allowed to receive from time to short time visit some debt.
This takes place in a booth at a gate through fine wire, which allows conversation and exchange
of glances, under the supervision of guard present, but that prevents
all contact and communication cards, money, weapons.

Books that take place on record carefully all the facts of the domestic economy and statistical
observations on the morality of prisoners. According to these documents, if the conduct of a defendant
is blameless get a less rigorous treatment and a decrease sentencing, which reaches halfway.
These discounts are common. On the product side work, the system is analogous to the House of
Detention, but part is intended to help, if they are poor, to the children, parents, or spouse
of the inmate. The prison serves only for those convicted for crimes or serious offenses, to
more than one year of confinement cell. The maximum of the duration is 20 years, applied only
in cases of repeated crimes very serious.

The thing that caught my attention in the prison was the chapel, place of extreme simplicity,
unadorned and provided no seats in the amphitheater. There the prisoners are divided into sections
according to their criminality. At the bottom, next to the modest chair of the chaplain is
a small altar reduced to one Christ, the image of the Virgin and
the vessels and objects necessary for the Roman worship.

This altar is provided with a thick, dark curtains. When the prisoners Roman Catholics are in the
chapel, the altar is bare and does the priest concerned. When his turn assist the Protestants,
the altar is covered and is not in sight but Bible on the table. Thus, the same pulpit and serve
the local priest and pastor. Jamas in my life had found a social spectacle as sublime as that
of the humble chapel equally dedicated to the service of two religious communions bloodied land their
struggles ungodly. What profound teaching of spiritualism in religion, of noble simplicity in worship,
brotherhood and tolerance, universality in the religious idea, - without stopping lie in the
differences in symbols and forms, - of true Christianity, finally! Education hidden in the
depths of a prison, - symbol of awareness equal to duty and justice - to instill the culprit
the notion of brotherhood in God and man, the equal right of all, whose violation is precisely
what is called a fault, offense ú crime!

By leaving to Geneva, had not only an impression of deep respect for this small state of philosophers,
artists and free and industrious, but also a kind of consolation and confidence in the future
of humanity. What's great examples and inspirations soaring European civilization owes to this
tiny village, used to manufacture watches and exercising free inquiry, his genius seems to have
severe regularity timer independent expansion and organizations free!

There were born to glory letters and sciences of every kind, patient and bold naturalistic Saussure
and Candolle, as Burlamaqui jurists, historians such as Sismondi and Mallet, economists and
John B. Say and Sismondi himself, men of state as Necker, writers such as Madame Necker, Töpffer
and Cherbuliez; distinguished artists, thinkers, philosophers and the immortal Rousseau!

A huge open carriage, divided into three compartments and containing about 23 people, apart
from the luggage, was to guide us along the Arve Valley to Chamonix, at the foot of colossal
group of mountains in the center of which holds the impressive dome of Mont Blanc. The English,
as in all places, vehicles and excursion lines, were in the majority, mainly represented by
a half-dozen strong young ladies, blonde, pink and whimsically dressed.

Sovereign always annoyed with the thick fog, even life and isolation its opulent geographic island,
English is eminently cosmopolitan, for hygienic reasons by genius and tradition, and out of
curiosity, frequently childish. Even in the last corner of the world and the highest peaks is
found, - imperious, demanding and intractable, when no need of others, laconic, cold, full of walking
sticks, umbrellas and a thousand appliances, impassive when the others are moved, shaved and
perfumed in order even at the bottom of the cliffs and refrigerators,
and wearing his singular dress in one color and one court, which by
dint from uniform touch of extravagance.

Fine, gentlemanly, hospitable and fulfilled in their Island (at home), English is hard in
a foreign country, sometimes half-savage, because the pride of race and nationality gives them
the knowledge that bears his home everywhere them, ie individual right, your name and your bag.
Hence the total lack elasticity and tolerance to accommodate in a foreign country to use of
other peoples and to the needs of the circumstances. It is certainly curious that phenomenon in
processing morality that takes place in English, travelers so attached to the idea of ??the homeland,
and at the same time so devoted to his travels away from the soil.

The French, on the contrary, a man of spirit rather than of conviction, of indefinite expansion
habits rather than socialist par excellence, leaving the country across the border in France,
find an adoptive, temporary and ad hoc wherever it presents a means of socializing, a circle of
ideas. Thus, with admirable ease assimilates all conditions of life, and agree with the best mood
all possible situations, both in the Fields Elysees of Paris in the bottom of a South American
jungle, or in a desert of Africa. Is why, when traveling in Europe between the English and
French, is always at the first silent, elusive, retreating into his
personality rigorous, while others enter course in the wide lane and
multiple conversation unencumbered, easily reaching to the gaiety.

These observations, which have nothing personal to be new or original HOWEVER, and have confirmed all my
trips, I came at once to mind as follow diligence in Geneva, the road to Chamonix. The conversation
was so animated between us and two or three Frenchmen and a few francs in the same race as
notable silence contemplation of the English. Llamónos attention particularly a Protestant
minister or pastor the canton of Vaud, traveling very modestly with his daughter - a smart
and funny lady sixteen years, - with the intention of making fruitful hikes. He was a man of manners
fine, full of modesty and distinction in behavior, simple, tolerant and philosopher, strongly soaked
in the feeling of brotherhood and Christian love, friend of good
conversation and discussion, attentive observer enthusiastically by
all the natural beauty of instruction general and particularly addicted
to solid geology, physics, botany and history natural.

His daughter, as educated as nice, so innocent and intelligent, with him always in their wanderings.
On foot, armed with sticks and a modest outfit travel had traveled together the most interesting
regions in central Switzerland, scaled the heights Jura, Bernese Oberland, refrigerators, etc., collecting
curious plants and making thoughtful observations. They had the intention to go in the refrigerator
side of Mont Blanc and visit all the natural sights of Chamonix. Rarely have I traveled with a companion
as instructive vaudense as this worthy pastor, I found one of the most beautiful types of modern priesthood.

Twelve
hours of care and drive mortals must endure to make the journey of 90 miles to Chamonix, in thick
clouds of dust and under the rays of a sun that seemed tropical. Otherwise no one can admire the
beauty of the many varied landscapes offer the track. She is of little interest to Bonneville, which
was capital of the former province of Faucigny, with 1.500 inhabitants. It is there, near the
mountains of mole and going through a beautiful Arve Bridge to trace the left bank to Cluses,
the traveler begins to contemplate about the beauties of the Alps. The river runs along the
bottom of a deep basin formed buttressed by high mountains or rough seams on a rocky bed, leading
riots in a thick wave solution of granitic sand and limestone that gives its ink Cinderella.