 The wrath of the two has reached its height.
We have engaged in a duel to the death.

- What do you mean? - "Dona Luz.

- I mean - said her friend - that to see if I get mad or if he makes me wise, we have decided
to get married. Truth is that he gives up for now, and says that they are home with me, should
not be in their right mind, and already, without getting married, you I won the game and the bet, but,
therefore, adds that wants to marry for revenge and retaliate. I answer that I feel not to lose
my son, but you want to get even, and I assure you will leave with hands on his head if he keeps
playing, and he threatened that his loss will be greater when you are married, but the brash,
daring, not afraid to charge me, and closes eyes and lashes, and got married. Today, with more
courage than Cid will ask to my father is white hand, which will
take the reins and forced him out of step Canon mule and jump and
be more clever than your beautiful black horse.

Doña Luz, who could not hide his feelings, which showed on his face
as White pebbles through the clear water of a lake and gentle, rather
let see Although joy, knowing the new, already provided for her, the
marriage of his friend.

- How is that? - Continued the latter -.

Do you grieve me to marry? Do you feel the way informal? Do not you see it, simpleton? Do not fall
into that barbarous egoistón, Pepe Güeto, presumed and not without reason, to be a real boy, and all
the fury that has been and is still against me, lies that I had longed to love him so sad and so
serious, and I would since to sigh and mourn, not thinking only of him and not fun? Can not
you see it in love and rage that I do not think so in love or as capable of falling in love,
because I do not pout and do not get bored with tears and sublime? And do not calculate, finally,
I I love him too? If not, marry me? Once married, once the natural shrinkage that I save, I
will show my affection, and I'll see that it is a treasure in my soul, but hidden jokes and
joy, and when you see the treasure, and you enjoy, and know that it's yours, and better than
anything he could dream, must know that my heart is not cork but syrup and jelly, and has to
put such as jelly and syrup, and has to dance and laugh with pleasure, stating and confessing that
combine well the joys with true love, and laughter with ventura more serious and more serious in
the background.

Doña Luz, smiling and sighing at the same time, said then:

- It was not your kind concern for the cause of my sadness was my selfishness that after will achieve
victory. I feel that going to be happy and this I am glad, but I have jealousy for your friendship.
Why not confess? The only person I have gradually come to trust my heart and giving all my love,
you are. You, I admit, were paying me with interest, but now you have husband, and soon, perhaps,
have children, and all thy soul will be for them.

This poor orphan alone in the world, will be abandoned and without
a soul who understands and loves her.

Doña Manolita, tenderly embracing Dona Luz, said with these words:

- Although I did not have a thousand reasons to rejoice at my wedding, I glad, because I was excited
to declare your friendship now more explicit and as you've never done. I'm happy and proud that
both deem to friend me. Fear not you that neither Pepe Güeto, nor Güetillos that may shed some
light on what is to come, you steal that much of the soul I love you. Why, do you imagine the
chamber, corner, or place of my soul where the love of wife and mother, is filled or being filled
now, and formerly empty? Do you think that you love me did not exist before Pepe Güeto love? Go
if there was. What is is that then the boyfriend or husband, to whom I devoted, was dreamed,
made to order from mouth filled with perfection. The children, and I pretended I still pretend
they are a cherubim. As much as Pepe Güeto worth, not worth losing care or a hundred miles away,
I dreamed her husband. And as for the children, will be most noticeable difference, because
which have, if I have, as I hope and desire, not to be as clean and heavenly the imagined, but weeping,
naughty, dirty and stubborn, and I have to build up a thousand kennels
and should have between them a thousand cachetinas, all of which make
me not love them both.

Infer as I said, married and with children, you have to want more
than single, if you still love me you.

Even if you get married, will you let loving me?

- I'll never stop loving you - said Dona Luz -. I do not ever marry.

This last statement aroused much curiosity and interest of Mrs. Manolita,
and as privacy and confidence had reached its peak, there were many
secrets and revelations by Dona Luz, in a conference that its importance
merits a separate chapter.

-VI-

Dona Luz confidences

The doctor's
daughter led the confidences, telling Dona Luz:

- Why did not you
ever get married?

I do not deny, I know it is difficult but not impossible.

It's hard because these villages no boyfriend for you, and thou shalt not go for Groom to the big cities.
Not in your condition or your character go to find work, under the protection of an aunt,
you've neglected, or single and independent, now that you older.

- Useless is that I will answer - "Dona Luz -: you yourself answer
the question.

Our friendship, however, should be complete today. I want to give it the stamp of truth, not
taking secrets to you and opening my heart. I shall not fear, nor do I have to empty, or recesses
me on your concept, you have to show me the way I am. I will confess that anyone have confessed.
That corner, that piece of soul, where you say you had love for husband and children, even
before them, I have me also in my soul, but a pride that no is based on reasons, a reluctance
born of the manner in which I was educated, is opposed to me to marry ....

- With another Güeto Pepe, for example - Dona Manolita interrupted.

-
Pepe Güeto is honest, good, intelligent, richer than I - said Dona
Luz -.

I would a fool if he disdained, founded on something I disdain: but
this is not reasonable, feel, and it is certain that nobody in Güeto
Pepe conditions, and being in his view, I want Women own and I will
love you to him for a husband.

Understood that I speak within ordinary life, without any novel. This could be this, that, not
a man like Pepe Ghetto, but the last farmhand put an eye on me with reasonable hope for, and
I and would cede theirs, not the daughter of a ruined marquis, but being a millionaire and
princess. Unfortunately by that or mine, or no of those beings with superior brands and qualities
his class, which would, in short, that men by nature are more equal what is believed, and
that those items and qualities are created by artifice, or, if such beings are not reserved
for me, or I lack imagination to pretend someone, but not exist, all those beauties they would fall
in love. Thus, the energy of love is in me to be asleep, but not dead. God forbid me to kill
me in any power of which God himself has given me. Sleep love in my breast. My reason serene
and cold tap ensure that not wake him but he should. But, my daughter, no one comes to wake, and
I fear that his dream is eternal.

- Come on, I'm sorry I said nonsense - said Dona Manolita -. What would ugly or bad you were you
and show you where it is to be none with titles awake enough to go to sleep that precious love?
Almost seems to me not just right, but you are obliged to do so. It is not fair that so much
beauty (care if you're nice!), it is not lawful for such distinction
and elegance are buried here.

It is cruel to eat so cute love sleeping, age, and perhaps, perhaps, have the misfortune that
is moth-eaten wings. Sure there are a thousand suitors out there, these worlds, rendered fall
at your feet, if they see you. Sure to be one among them whom you should love. But guess how
are you here? Why did you play with them hide and seek?

- First, because, in order to find poetry, I have to start destroying the poetry. Love not to be
sought, must appear, must stem from a providential. Wanted fortune are seeking adventure, looking
for business, and you said it was seeking placement, but love not searched. Besides, where
will I go not further away from my site, more isolated than Villafría? Where shall I not be regarded
as an adventurer?

I'm almost out of all kinds social. My relatives humiliate me if I go with them. If I were alone,
say all and D. Acisclo, I was a cow without a cowbell. Marquise could be and not what I am neither
be, because it's ridiculous the title without the appropriate income. Here, where everyone
knows me, I Miss Dona Luz, the marquise, still retaining his ancestral home, and has won the esteem
and respect, because everyone knows his life for twelve years. For those worlds I would be
a somewhat mysterious Dona Luz, who each imagine a thousand horrors. Begin for stating a truth,
to invent and put on it and a half million lies. The truth would be that I am the daughter of
a marquis skull and broken, and one such Antonia Gutierrez, single and seamstress, with whom my
father had a love affair. Believe me I'm nowhere better than here although I never fell in love
and got married. Why not fall in love? Why love has to be always asleep? I am inclined to believe
that only one love, each for its purpose, but love is one, and if you change the object does
not change the love. If so, as I desire, my love wake up and employ all the beauty of heaven,
God has raised, in flowers, poetry, and who knows if even in science, because in my tight brain
Women's fit its great truths, his dark and fearful mystery problems.

- Nothing I answer you - "Dona Manolita -. I see much of what you say you're right; but you
trust me and make me see the deepest part of the soul, take me out of curiosity: explain to
me, if you can, certain things that I find very rare in your life. For improvident, by careless be
thy father, for a few friends and relations had in the world, is not had no one to leave you confident
but D. Acisclo? "You yourself, having lived in Madrid until the age
of fourteen, not one friend left there?

Is not there anyone left who care about you?

- Neglect and the foresight of my father could not be higher. Harto has proved his ruin; but also,
just that I, tying the broken memories of my childhood, I count my way to live in Madrid, to
understand that the best, perhaps the only thing that could make my father was entrusted to me
D. Acisclo. Until I was five years, I lived in the house of a lady seemed fairly well off, and
whose name was Dona Francisca.

I pondered afterwards if that lady was my real mother, but if you treat me well and even with care
and gifts, known or should have known, judging by the confused I remember that I was weird. I
was at home please. I was not married. Often went to visit a handsome gentleman, friend of my
father. My father would see me, sometimes alone, sometimes with the gentleman. Mrs. died and
then my father took me with him to his house, and I no longer trusted anyone. A few months
of being with my father, where I watched an old maid, the nurse came from England my dad ordered
for me and that was with me until a few days before my father and I we came to Villafría.

Doña
Manolita, it was the best girl in the world and he loved and admired Dona Luz, pleased with the
confidence that made him, and very curious to know everything, listened without flinching,
sitting in front of her friend.

It continued:

- My nanny was the duty personified, but as a duty, no heat, no enthusiasm and no affection.
I'm almost to assert that I never kissed, never gave me a caress. Instead, I taught As she knew, and
my father considered a precocious prodigy, like a wise little girl.

The life of my father, but then I did not understand, I understand now that was disipadísima, and
the complete opposite as exemplary. Playing, courting, was away from
home until three or four o'clock.

I was like a refuge, as a means of purification, as their comfort saint in times of gloom and sadness.
I called his room, and now alone with me tenderness told me, kissed me and cried at times. Since
I was so young, and could not figure out me or try to learn from him the cause of their grief.

Several
times I did also go to his room in time that he was not alone, but with a beautiful and elegant
woman, though dressed carelessly, and this woman I held in beautiful and funny, and made me
a thousand caresses.

- That woman would be your mother - Donna Manolita interrupted.

- That would have thought me too - went Dona Luz - if that woman had
always been the same, but were varied.

All are modest people, were there with some mystery, and the nurse never saw them. A biggie
when I myself, when I was nine years, never again my father to teach me any of those women who,
by the impression I left, it I figured that had to be ladies and not vulgar. My father was a gallant
knight much liked the ladies. I inferred then nothing of this, but later I inferred unlikelihood
that I really was a daughter of Antonia Gutierrez, a seamstress. Could not my father have
sought to legitimize the false mother, without compromising a lady? Even in my father's life,
despite my young age, ever thought this, but I never dared, or indirectly, to ask anything from
my father on the subject. He dodged the conversation, if by chance fell upon my supposed or
real mother Antonia Gutiérrez. After death, and after I met twenty years, I searched hard
to give me something light among his papers. He tore all the cards of some interest, because
it was neglected and afraid to leave them anywhere and laws. What I have found, therefore, was negligible:
or a picture or a word written. Only on his very body was found this medallion gold, not encrypt
or sign.

Luz took from her bosom the medallion of the speaker.

- Since then took the medallion in my breast, as my father's memory.
