 "My heart is yours forever leave before beating
that love you alone, "answered Mutileder.

These sessions are the hours passed, and continued two lovers were together less when Echeloría retired
to sleep next to his old nurse and stay very sheltered or when going to the beach for bathing, for then,
in order to avoid what people say and gossip, Mutileder not bathe her, perhaps not used even
swimwear, so complicated and conceal the ways in which they are now
in Biarritz and elsewhere.

III

Phoenician city of Malaga was a lot of trade. Almost racing Cadiz. The port was full Tyrian
ship, Pelasgian, Greek and Etruscan.

In its stores were sold thousand beauties brought from distant countries: wool fabrics, dyed
purple in Tyre, gold jewelry, made in Memphis in Sais and other Egyptian
cities, gemstones and Hindustan cotton fabrics; Persian carpets, silk
and even the most ignored country of Seras.

Echeloría went to Manchester several times with her father and her boyfriend, to visit those stores
and buy clothes to the wedding day sighed.

Hallab then in Malaga one of the boldest and marine scientists had
then the world: the famous Adherbal.

Navigation had made a most happy, and his ship was like, anchored in the harbor, loaded tin, amber,
iron, skins of ermine and beaver, and other valuables that he had gone for the coast of France,
England and other regions of Northern Europe where only the Phoenicians ventured to arrive at
that time.

Adherbal Tyre was planning to return soon, but first had to take in
Malaga copper, wine, quicksilver and gold dust from the sands of our
rivers, instead leaving behind some of its cargo.

Walking one day along the quay to Echeloría Adherbal saw, and seeing
her and swore by Melcart Ashtoreth as it were by Hercules and Venus,
who had never seen more beautiful creature and salt.

Desire was to suddenly reached the girl and slipped the turkey, that is, to say no ceremony,
her daring thoughts but Mutileder was beside her, looking suspicious everywhere, with the beard
on the shoulder, distrustful and hostile attitude, and brandishing
a huge and fierce club.

Prudence restrained the impulses of the Phoenician navy. It was enough to see a glancing blow
to Mutileder bear was able to wear yourself out to any of a club,
if he were to break down a bit with the beautiful and candid Echeloría.

Adherbal,

as said, was wise, but he was also stubborn, enterprising and cunning. Echeloría it was not a fleeting
impression and light, but deep and durable.

So he found out who he was and where he lived, and got it with discretion and modesty.

Two or three times was then surreptitiously Churriana horse, and returned to see the child, being
captive to its unique charm.

Finally, through the clever people of the country, it was reported Echeloría life, he knew I was going
to marry Mutileder, and no detail was that you fail to take full news.

These elements formed Adherbal a diabolical plan, which went right, as unfortunately go wrong almost
every diabolical plans.

One early morning the ship weighed anchor and set sail from the port of Malaga, after saying
goodbye kick him. Out port and the ship, he was very near the coast
to the west, tacking to win best wind. So a few hours elapsed until
he reached one in which the gentle Echeloría down to bathe in the
sea. Adherbal then jumped in a very light boat with eight rowers vibrant
and two other men of the crew, great swimmers and divers, and the
most agile and devoted to him. With the boat approached cautiously,
hiding in the recesses of the coast and away from the rocks and hillocks,
until came close to where Echeloría bathing, believing the most secure
and complete neglect. The swimmers then thrown into the water, dove,
which suddenly emerged Echeloría was bathing, seized her despite her
cries, which soon ended in fainting caused by Swat, and in that provision,
beautiful and interesting as a nymph, is the led to the boat where
the Adherbal in his arms, and then drove on board his ship