 

When Maria Antonia was freed from the presence of D. Jacinto, remained motionless and standing
for few moments, then burst into insane laughter and nervous laughter, and decomposed, and Finally,
onto the floor, writhing, shedding a flood of tears and babbling between teeth for me, a sinner.

Thereafter
did not return to sin Maria Antonia, in thought or in action.

Persisted in your prayers, redoubled his vigils, fasting and mortification and made a few months
later, and happy early transition to a better life.

THE SAN VICENTE FERRER SIZE

(Palinodia)

In the chapel of the beautiful villa which has the Marquis de Montefico near Valencia, is a
devout and tiny image of San Vicente Ferrer, carved in wood, well painted later. Should this
work of the illustrious sculptor D. Manuel Alvarez, whom his contemporaries Greek called for
their ability to mimic the large models Phidias Art let's antiquity. Elegant decoration of
the Prado is still the source of the Apollo and Four Seasons, sculptor's work above, but showed
more talent and inspiration in San Vicente de I'm talking about and that everybody knows. The
Saint is represented very young yet. His head is beautiful and has a noble expression of triumphant
joy, as if she had to achieve a great victory. In the face of this portrait, high all over
with just over twenty cm, it seems that Alvarez has sought to play the proud joy of Apollo
Belvedere, after having killed with his arrows to the monstrous serpent, although Christian
humility and quiet pride restrains the joy of the Holy consideration he has not defeated by
his own merit but by grace and favor of heaven. Also shows in the face of a shameful blush Santo,
where it feels that the victory who has won has been in spiritual combat against the third enemy
of the soul, as regards Rivadeneira Father, speaking of that insolent female who wanted to try
and perform to Santo and gave occasion for calling him that did not burn in the fire and for
he was compared to the three youths in the furnace of Babylon, of
whom Daniel speaks prophet.

The effigy, in short, about owning remarkable artistic worth, is worthy of consideration causes
not common. In the chest, under which the site must be the heart leads puñalito driven a strong
steel and razor-sharp tip. All of it, the less the grip of gold has penetrated the wood, powered
by sacrilegious hands. And mind the pious people, yet earlier this century, was made in that
likeness a singular miracle. All year on September 8, the day of the Nativity of the Virgin
Our Lady, a droplet red like blood, flowing from his wound.

No wonder that the miracle is not do today, because they deserve to see those who lack faith.

Since this is, the beautiful statue attracts much attention, especially when it comes to knowing
that among the documents in the file of the Marquis is a letter of Don Melchor de la Mota,
uncle of the present Marquis and fourth son of the grandfather of
the latter, D. Jacinto, which tells the story of the picture and explains
the success of the wound that has been in chest