 In
ancient times, when the Roman Empire flourished, call one Caesar, was to point by his successor,
as it is between the Western Emperors, the King of Romans, France The Delphin, and our Prince
Spain. But declined and the power of the Romans, after of divided the Empire, the Greek emperors
gave only the title of Caesar, without some right of succession, but was always estimated this
motion, since it was only a shadow of what it was. Gave himself up after the first, until the
dignity of Sebastocrator was preferred, Alejos Commener when he gave his second place in the Empire
to Isacio. It also lost after their seniority and authority, when it Alejos, for being childless
male, married his daughter eldest daughter Irene, with Alejos Palaeologus, Despot giving title,
which is the same as calling to a master, and was certainly Emperor if not before his father died,
so that the Caesar's dignity in the empire is the third, being the first of despot, and the
second of Sebastocrator. Curopalates says that these three dignitaries have no particular occupation
to go to, and call him Mr. Caesar, a word taken out of pride, and due only to God in ancient times
even the Emperors themselves, for we read of Augustus, Tiberius and some others who never
consented to being called gentlemen. Tratavanle of Majesty Caesar, the bonnet was wearing gold
and scarlet, and his shot almost as the Emperor's scarlet coat, socks and shoes, light blue,
and the chair as the emperor himself, but no eagles, was next to the emperor in public entrances
and sides, and lived in his palace. This whole incident has been referred to is under what is removed
Montaner in its history, and Berenguer in their relations not stopped writing. But George Pachymeres
in chap. II of the book 12 refers to any variety that event, and to me it seemed not to be confused
with the above, since it could not reconcile, so that one can read it clearly to view what
seemeth him more real.

Already determined the Emperor to receive Berenguer de Entenza, sent
him to call many times that was said was at Gallipoli, and to assure
him stamps sent its patent pending Gold, in which he promised with
an oath, that he would try to wanting to be good will and friendly
spirit, and that when they wanted to go did not prevent.

Berenguer received the mails, with the faith and word of the Emperor, went to Constantinople with
two ships, but reached no wanted to get out of them, and sent notice to the Emperor of your arrival.
Then the Emperor ordered him call, and sent cars and horses to enter with great authority and honor,
but Berenguer neither wanted to leave the ships, and obey, asking the Emperor to send him hostages
Despot to his son John. This seemed wrong so the Emperor, as to all, not trusting of his word
and oath, and so many days left him in ships. Finally came the Christmas Day sent him to call, saying
he was in good spirits as he had secured with his faith and word. It was a long time doubtful, until
disillusioned, and went to the Emperor of who was wonderfully received, but always retreated
to the ships, to where the Emperor has always had given him. Natividad day the Emperor took
the oath of fidelity, and this gave him the dignity of Grand Duke of the Senate, and gave the
golden rod, reinvention of the Emperor, and he dressed the way and use a Senator, that left their
ships, and went to lodge to Cosmidio where his Catalanes, some of them were also honored with titles
and large grants, and since that time had great authority Berenguer with private and Andronico's
advice. In the oath of allegiance made Berenguer conceal his deception, showing truth and
sincerity, then having to swear to be a friend Emperor's friends and enemies of their enemies,
except to Fadrique of enemies because he said that he had sworn before friendship. It looked like
it contained intelligent itself some big secret, most of what seemed outwardly, others took
it well, saying that as he was faithful to Frederic, so would the Emperor, which won opinion
and glory, following Case Platon, how much importance is looking good and just to win opinion, and
to deceive.

CHAPTER XXI.

The Genoese persuade the Emperor's war against the Catalans, and Michael Palaeologus ago the same,
and people get excited at Gallipoli war.

The Genoese of Pera, who just before and magnified fortified with
moats and walls were the first that our weapons were suspected, and
put doubt in our faithfulness, Andronico said the Emperor, who was
nine of the West, who was preparing a large and powerful army to tackle
the provinces of the Empire to the spring, and that this had the of
course for obvious guesses, and that the Catalans who were formerly
in his service and those who then came Berenguer de Entenza, were
united in their damage, and not defense, because they corresponded
secretly with the Sicilian, and that the bastard brother Fadrique
Don King of Sicily was understood that came with twelve ships to join
them, and then waited for the pleading, and implement their attempts.

These were the lies with which the Genoese wanted to destroy the Catalans, and they introduced,
and become very confident, and zealous for the common good of the
Empire.

Advised to Andronico, according to Pachymeres says, who undertook at once to the Catalans with outdoor
war, that they had fifty ships on order, and that others who arm themselves for the Emperor,
or they give money to them, even if in the long run, would put them in the sea, and that this
only encouraged them to see the Greeks mistreated, the land that already had by country battered
and destroyed those who came to defend. No emperor then gave credit to the Genoese, believing
their sham chimeras were evil and envy, born since the Catalans put his foot in Greece. Faith
and oath of the Catalans it also claimed, but answered them that he appreciated their care, and
what hurt the works of the Greeks. He ordered them to be quiet, and he consulted what should
be done, and that consultation would be executed.

At the same time the honor and mercy that he did to Andronico Berenguer, Miguel irritated mood Palaeologus
to our ruin, and persuaded the Greeks began at once to deal with it, trying to for this all the
more effective means might, divine laws and human trampling. Were Greeks so envious and proud,
that incredible rage and fury, but with some secret went plotting treason and treachery, with
tongue and hands requested to Michael and bad affection against us, to urge the great reputation
of arms of the Catalans, and sat the supreme office of the empire, big decline of His Majesty,
and dishonor him. Believed Greeks always our Catalans were like the Alans and Turkish Greeks,
who were not raised their thoughts to more than living with a sad and miserable pay, but when
they saw provehidos them the offices of Cesar, Grand Duke, Steward and admiral, and had imbalances
to aspire to those who were warned their damage, and began to feel that the forces and honor
of the Empire are brought to the hands of foreigners.

While among the Greeks ran this talk and feelings, the soldiers of the garrisons as it seemed that
the wages are delayed, abused the Greeks in the towns where they were housed, ill-forced war and military
rigor hardly the most illustrious captains has been able to tackle. Michael Palaeologus alert to
every opportunity to slander our entire nation, he used this, to persuade his father, saying that
if not addressed then the insolence of the Catalans would be the total ruin of the Empire, and his
house, because not satisfied with pay and salaries as excessive, and very rich with the spoils
of Asia, pressed the friendly peoples to satisfy their greed, not for defeating the Turks, the
Empire was free easement, if one waited more intolerable, and cruel of the Catalans, whose hand
was making common freedom, that in vain he had recovered his grandfather Michael Palaeologus, done
Latinos to the Empire, if the second time they had to surrender voluntarily, that this was very
close to happening if not tackled his insolence, that they were still forces the Greeks if their
traces saliesen vain for any way to oppress Catalans: the obligation under which he had placed to
deliver their provinces from the Turks, and their arrogance and ingratitude it had cleared,
and his name deserved victory grievances, not services, because instead of establishing their
arms in a peace secure the Empire they made war upon the peoples new friends with intolerable
taxes, and bad treatment.

Tight Andronico persuasion of the child, and their private, continuously complaints cried the misery
and feelings of the Greeks as his disgrace, was then shot Catalans the effect of their talks,
responding to Roger, and to ask for money Berenguer for war, they do not want to pay until
they had passed into Asia, and should give top to war; language ever used Andronico, which until
then was longer in them mercy, and give them money, who asked them to ask. Andronico's response
was to the ears of Gallipoli, and was so great that caused uproar and riot throughout the country,
that forced captains to take up arms to attack the places of the Empire, and take some forces
and prisons. Andronico dilated while giving them satisfaction, showed great sense of his two
Captains Roger and Berenguer, for it seemed that the danger blood and wanted to enlarge, and
not to upset the Emperor who expected their larger accretions, not pressed as expected, that
they were given to them pay so well deserved. These doubts came to both, they resolved to send
ambassadors the Emperor, asking that they should pay, and would continue
its service with great fidelity, punishing the excesses of those who
dared to insult and abuse the friendly peoples.

This so polite embassy says Pachymeres that was the fear that the army had Miguel Palaeologus,
who had gathered to suppress their boldness and daring. Received from the Emperor the embassy,
??then it seemed impossible to meet by the big pay they asked, but do not get to break, and he declared
war, sent them to Berenguer de Entenza, so that through him still with them some of the money they
asked. Contentarónse then with the money they were given, and he went to Gallipoli where he had already
reached Roger and his wife, mother and brother, who wanted to accompany him, and also, as
I suspect, Roger having near him to his mother Irene and sister of the Emperor, as hostages, case
against him wanted to proceed as a rebel, when the tumult and riot spend more forward.

CHAPTER XXII.

Pay yourself the people of war by order of Andronico with money short, where new born riots.

Andronico
forced, of necessity, with Greek cunning and fraud, sent to fight the currency money that was
given to the ambassadors to do pagamento, very prejudiced, and lacking in most third of its
former value, and wanted the soldiers received as if it were very full. Masters of deception less
noticed, easily they were persuaded, and sought after almost mutinous soldiers demanded their
pay, took the money, and brought him to Gallipoli where samples were taken and distributed with
complaints and feelings, but at last with only the name that were paid, although they knew the
fault was quieted. I did differently Genoese soon after, which concluded with the Emperor by a
certain amount of money given envy his army against the Catalans, paying them with the same
currency is returned to the send, and rid the army. When the Aragonese and Catalan happy with the
money of guests willing to pay pay Greeks, and give them full satisfaction, get reused currency
to the price they gave, and as food and sustenance needed suffers no delay forced the Greeks
to be the would give, and would receive the money. This is were altering the Greeks, and the
Catalans to get the food to weapons, with which all peoples that
district were deserted.

Andronico with endless complaints of the disorders and excesses of
soldiers, bent to follow the advice of his son, and effective remedy
and violent to much damage.

Pudiéranse tackle, although the diversity of heads that were in our army have full authority
over them, and they were united, for always, that Prince uses a trace
as unworthy of his duty, as he was giving money to the Catalans as
needed by its former price, and not send to universal edict that they
received all subjects of his empire at the same price, is to give
opportunity to break some of the people coming and the military.

Tiénese certainly this means one traced by the two Emperors Andronico and Michael, to mistreat
the Catalans to the Greeks, and they take up arms offended for revenge, that they felt that
the Catalans would be lost, and they free of his duty. Trace out fine, because our lack of money
is coming through villages and towns, and made contributions, and finding strength, with the
usual mistreated military leave hands and speaking to whom they were opposed. Author Nicephore
Greek as the offended party, has long excess of that militia, and many more Jorge Pachymeres,
which give rise to his passion, death with greater malignancy, but denies Montaner Catalans
were relentless and cruel to the Greeks, before helping them says and give help, because with
the fury of the Turks, the faithful in the Provinces of Asia, fleeing of this cruel bondage,
was collected on Constantinople, and perished in the dunghill of hunger and misery, but the
Greeks were moviese to pity the misfortune of those who had for colleagues and friends, and that
the Catalans with great liberality and generosity was helping many suffering in this common work.
The credit should be given to those historians who read this relation can easily be judge, preceding
the first word of his charities. Pacimerio Nicephore and Greeks, and in many parts of careless
writing the truth, offended by common and individual grievances of our own, away from the sometimes
Spanish Montaner, eyewitness of these events, and the simplicity of his style, and the time he
wrote, seems that ensure the truth of the events concerned.

The emperor feared that Roger discovered Andronico not take up arms against him, and follow the
will of the Catalans, resentful of deception that occurred in the currencies of pay, wanted the
general Maruli Prince Romeos who belonged to Roger in the East was on his part to bring him to
Constantinople, and to assure him of his will, he had always been to make him mercy, and grew up
together and ordered him to tell his sister Irene that come with it, for it seemed to have authority
to hierno to persuade the that mattered. Came to the embassy Maruli to Gallipoli, and Roger
replied that clearly Gallipoli was not going to leave without being more suspicious his men
to assist in Constantinople. Irene also be excused by the lack of health, which gave no place to get
underway. With This Maruli returned to Constantinople, and disabused the emperor, that if the army
did not pay had not entirely trying to concerts. However this disappointment insisted strongly
second time through his sister, to persuade him to pass to the east with some relief that he
would send, because Philadelphia was more trouble than the year before, and that the need for
suffering not even to forgive the dead. Roger would rather obey the Emperor, but the soldiers were
more irritated than ever, and if Roger likes to be given then show the Emperor authority, and
life-threatening.

At this time Berenguer de Entenza, seeing that everything was full of suspicions and fears,
and The Greeks regarded him as a Catalan, and the Catalans came to distrust of their faith, because
it was the Emperor in place as supreme, and that this could not be but still on their part, adopting
as evil Emperor did with them and finally being things of the Catalans, and Andronico, in terms
that could not be neutral, or be mediator between the difference without much risk of losing them
all, it was decided to go Berenguer his first duty, and preferring
his particular enhancement of the public honor and esteem of the nation,
which was near miss. Asked permission to go to Andronico for Gallipoli
and although the Emperor with prayers and gifts you tried to stop,
he continued to engage in two galleys had Blanquerna port through
the door of the Emperor, and says Pachymeres, packed with sad countenance,
and showed the fight of thinking that lead.

In the galley again he sent the emperor thirty vessels of gold and silver which he had given,
and The same author adds, that the insignia of the dignity of Grand Duke threw into the sea,
showing which has since renounced the friendship of the Empire. This action which is condemned in
Greek however vile and despicable, was the most worthy of praise that this great gentleman was
in the East because neither the honor nor the charges he failed to set aside the just, such large
those who want to enter to harm the public good, and reputation of the country, as many happens,
they forget what they owe to his blood and his nature, abuse of leave narrow interests, the more
times they sometimes have no shame, but only in reward of his villainy.

When they were to split Berenguer, the Emperor sent him to call many times, without being able
to Berenguer believe that I would let him. Emperor Ofreciéronle certain men to undertake Malvasia
Berenguer two galleys, and avenge the low estimate that by their friendship, and together charge
them a galley, which had to match Berenguer service, but the Emperor did not allowed to run,
because he thought reduced. Berenguer That night he set sail and came to Gallipoli, where he
found all things full of a thousand suspicions and misgivings.

CHAPTER XXIII.

Da Emperor Andronicus in fief to the Captains Catalans and Aragonese, the provinces of Asia. 

The
Emperor wished to divide the Catalans each other, then further punish his poderles safe. Roger
returned to persuade him before through family Canavurio Minister His mother Irene, who after going
back and forth many times from Gallipoli to Constantinople, arranged the biggest deal for the
Catalans, who might want to increase your greatness and if, as they were offered to comply, but the
insolence of the soldiers, the envy of the Greeks, bartered child's body and fans love to Andronico
had our stuff in mortal hatred, and so was determined between the Emperor and his son give
honorable apparent satisfacion to the Catalans, and secretly plot his downfall and ruin, although
this does not say the historians, leave easily understand what they later became. Andronico through
this Canavurio, Forced fear of weapons of the Catalans, and relief that fame had published
who came from Sicily, and that as long pay was the imperial treasury and camera destroyed and that
the income of the Empire were not sufficient for the ordinary expenses and forced, and Prince as
he played to prevent the remedy and required them as captains and friends debian to help implement
what everyone cared anyway. Finally he agreed to between the Emperor and Roger, after long
and heavy consultations, the following. Since then Andronico give the provinces of Asia in fief
to the rich men, and gentlemen Catalanes and Aragon, with the obligation that whenever they were
called and required by him or by his successors, come to serve at his expense, and that the Emperor
was not obliged to give after the conclusion of this deal pay people
to war, they just had to help each year with thirty thousand crowns,
and one hundred and twenty thousand bushels of wheat, giving them
money the pay runs until the day of the concert.

With this deal were our things, apparently in supreme greatness, because the Catalans were lords
of all the Provinces Asia, and by giving them the Emperor paid for their services, and because they
won arms, and escaped the bondage of the Turks: titles that any of them was enough to give them
the right to dominion of them all. This was one of the most marked of this expedition, and that
more can illustrate the Catalan and Aragonese nation, because when Romans conquered Mithridates,
won the Asia, achieved one of its greatest glories, and that the
value of many famous captains and armies conquered in many years,
acquired ours in less than two, and if by deception and betrayal will
not stop its fortunes, were absolute lords and princes of Asia, and
perhaps if stored, stopped the Turks in principle, and do not give
rise to dilate or enlarge the limits of the immense Empire that now
possess.

These concerts are sworn before the statue of the Virgin, the ancient custom of the empire.