 In the early days, the intimacy of their relationships excused, if not legitimized those loans
later on, ended the love and ill-treatment started, was not found in a position to meet their commitments.
And meanwhile, their needs have become more urgent. The Kronstadt latest conspiracy had cost
him so much that after he had not known what to do: some letters found in Zurich, his answers
to others, showing which had led to various parts insisting urgently to help you.

This reading Ferpierre inspired a serious question: Would they have killed and nihilistic Zakunine
the Countess to grab your money? ...

The suspicion was not damning without examination. In the house of the dead had been found many
values, but the Countess was so rich, that it might have been in possession of the last day a
higher amount. If the theft was the motive for the crime, the two Russians could, exprofeso,
failing stole all the money, but in this case was difficult to explain how loud as they had
killed his victim and the sharp pain Zakunine had established, or could say how and where
they had hidden the stolen sums, in the few moments spent between shooting and the arrival of
the servants. Should we consider any of them as an accomplice? Or rather, the Russians hoped to
subtract the money after having been led to believe in suicide no
charge providing the candle plant?

Ferpierre agreed to ask Milan, counter casa d'Arda, if the values ??found in the village Cyclamens
were exactly those who should be there, and at the same time questioning the servants of the town
to find out if any of them could, in the confusion of the first now, having seen the murderers
take the sums to be lacking. But even if the judge believe that anything was possible in the world,
would not admit that evil Zakunine out to the point killed for stealing. The assumption could,
of course had to be done was another: Zakunine returned to the side of the Countess, not because
they felt love for her, but by the need the help they could give spontaneously. Extremely rich, accustomed
to not spend on themselves same or a quarter of their income, could get bail immediately to
her former lover. So the Prince went to see her from time to time and was more kind to her.
Love, the passion that does not suffer delays or departures, which
amused the other hand, did live in Zurich, where he lived the Natzichet.

Was

it credible that this man, whom the legend attached so beloved as Don Juan, had remained in
the company of the student, the community of doctrines and purposes intimate relationships arise?
And lacking evidence to support this suspicion. The same The fellow from Russia, England also
turned against the Prince, reproaching that had left. "The presence here is necessary," he wrote
London, "four months ago to expect: what prevents you from coming? Good time for missing you at your
word! ... Or some new adventure is retained for further ?...»

- He had the letter which he wrote a notice of the affair with the young fugitive?

Among the letters of the Natzichet the judge did not find any that you serve. All concerned to studies
of the nihilistic, had written on many social issues discussed, drafts of articles for the American
magazine The Rebel, and Spanish fact sheets and Dutch which the author was a correspondent.
For more than their dislike for the young did not give the magistrate was forced to admit that
it had a culture outside ordinary: writing correctly in Spanish, English and German newspapers
sent bibliographies in which he reported all kinds of scientific and philosophical. The information
gathered from the Zurich police were, moreover, pro-nihilist. Three years earlier he had left Russia
alone, without resources, having been deported his father and brother to Siberia for revolutionary
acts. In Zurich had begun to study medicine, living by his work, translations of scientific works
made on behalf of German and French publishers. I was in relations with all political refugees,
but had not taken active part in the conspiracy: on the contrary, both orally and in writing
disapproved of continuous and useless sacrifice of lives. He bowed to the moral propaganda, the
preparation of conscience, but ardent and virile nature, had not hesitated down to the action
if it had been necessary.

And while its relations with the Prince nothing is said of precise, the suspicion of being his
mistress was confirmed. In love with her, her constant companion in Zurich, would not Zakunine impatient
agitators abandoned both by the action of love unnerving as for persuasion that directly bear
on it the girl? Would not it would have been proposed to disappointed that the young man, show
the folly of unnecessary carnage?

These assumptions seem plausible to Ferpierre. And the accusation of candle plant continued
to appear unfounded. If the youth loved the nihilistic, his relations with the Countess was not
so an obstacle that would encourage him to kill it. Could this rebel, to whom the law enforcement
was worthless, feeling bound by an entirely moral scruples? And there was, in fact, sometimes
left his mistress from running in search of new pleasures? What prevented him from making same,
with greater freedom than the first time? True, he had returned to the side of the Countess and was
treated with the greatest consideration, but if this should prove that he was sorry their evil
dealings before, the same regret, the presence of these unscrupulous in his mind contradicting
the hypothesis of murder could hardly wish for death of a being,
who regretted having caused pain.

If the Prince had been married to the deceased, and, tired of it, I wanted to get marriage to
the nihilistic nihilistic and wanted to marry him, he could rebuild rationally drama in another
way, feigning repentance, the husband returned to the side his wife, persuaded his conversion,
persuading others to dispel any suspicion and then, alone or with the complicity of his mistress,
the killed to be free. But Zakunine was not inextricably linked to the Countess, or could not
believe he wanted to marry her young fellow, had to leave all these assumptions. The repentance
of that man was sincere, or rather credible because he had a cause:
the need for money.

Beyond that, no reason, however subtle it was, could explain it.

In his long and varied experience, Ferpierre had studied carefully the passions human, and knew
that faithless lovers often feel overwhelmed at the time of Treason, by a movement of compassion
for the person who betray. Aware of evil they do lessen their guilt by agreeing to that person
a pity that seem to show His goodness of heart, but in fact it is a selfish pleasure, and, therefore,
offends more the betrayed. The Prince, who had forgotten and even despised by running her friend
after pleasure, might have been inclined to pay for this presumptuous compassion to better enjoy their
own happiness, no doubt had gone to watch the spectacle of misery
that he had caused, to comfort the victim hypocritically.

If this was the correct explanation of the feelings of Zakunine what was the effect her action
had occurred in the mind of the Countess? "Loving and loved another man, could have been jealous
of the nihilistic, and the powerlessness of the jealous death have occurred? That could not believe.
By contrast, the certainty that the Prince belonged to another, should having served in a free way to
believe, despite the seriousness of the commitment had contracted with his conscience: it was unlikely
to have said that more would excuse if picked up his word. But against this arrangement were all
his scruples, and the hypothesis Suicide seemed quite natural if the unfortunate had ignored the
compassion of Prince was false. To believe sincere, knowing that the Prince had a new love,
must have seen increase the difficulty to correspond to the expectations of candle plant. But actually
know Prince's new love? Or better, can you really loved Prince to the nihilist? Ferpierre understood
that above all should make sure this view, certainly plausible, but
not yet tested.

While the judge was heading to jail Eveche, where the defendants were arrested, was thinking
about how to start the interrogation of the young.

The cavalier attitude taken by it the day of the disaster, had inspired the desire and need
to be measured almost with that high spirit, to break him and confuse him.

While the guards were searching for the accused to conduct it before the magistrate, the director
of the prison referred to it that the attitude of the young woman had been during days of confinement,
a person who is not only quiet, but that defies suspicion. He had complained of the cell and
food, had asked to be allowed to read and write, and had actually
written a study on Swiss emigration, full of figures and statistical
data.

When did it come into the office of director, sat at a Ferpierre sign, and holding the questioning
look of it, folded his arms.

- It seems that finally has awakened to the memory you! - Began the
judge .-- And if facts and figures you provided you in this letter
are accurate, I see that your memory is also excellent!

Therefore, I would expect not to fail with respect to what for now
we are more useful to know.

How long have you known the Prince Alexius Petrovich?

- Many years.

-
"From Russia?

- Yes.

- How do you know Him?

- He was a friend of
my brothers.

- Which of course were his fellow?

... After you left your country Where did you find?

- Here, in Lausanne.

-
Were you alone?

- No.

- With the Countess?

- With her.

- Did you
go to look for?

How do you see?

- He knew my arrival, and was himself for me.

- For what purpose?

To have news from Russia?

Why drag you to their plots?

... You answer!

After a moment of silence, she replied:

- To help.

- How?

- I was alone, without resources, in unfamiliar country.

He came to offer their support.

- Did he give you money?

- I was offered, but I refused.

- So, how you helped?

- I recommended to several people familiar over and got me lessons
in Russian, gave me the occasion to write in newspapers and magazines.

-
How long were they together?

- One day.

- Have you been, or is he?

-
Yo.

- Do you went to Zurich?

... Do you write?

... And when they returned to see?

- One year later, in Lugano.

- Were you alone?

- Yes.

- Do you
know why?

Did you understand that I no longer loved the Countess?

- I did
not bother about such things.

- Why did you go to Lugano?

What was he doing there?

The young woman replied.

- Will not you say?

- I can not.

- Helps you match?

Again was speechless.

- How long were you in Lugano?

- Three days.

-
What next?

- I returned to Zurich.

- When he left?

- In April.

-
To do what?

As the young continue silent, Ferpierre continued slowly

- Have not
you now want to answer?

... I understand that reservation.

You can not or should not reveal the secrets of their association.

And his silence would you mean Prince Zurich came expressly to work in advertising, to conspire,
for political reasons final. But I warn you before you believe it is necessary to clarify some points
obscure. During the time when, according to you, the Prince was in Zurich for political reasons wrote
to him from Russia, England, everywhere, letters that called him, accused him to neglect the cause,
he was accused of laxity and almost infamy. We have a portion of those letters are very clear about
it. How do you explain these contradictions?

The girl shook her head without uttering a syllable.

- You persist in refusing to answer? ... And how do you explain that when Zakunine out Zurich
and come here to Ouchy, you had not previously searched, run to him, again Sometimes in a house
that was not his, and he found it right there on the day of the disaster? "Nor did you answer now?
Well then, I'll tell you something else: among these letters in which almost is accused of treason,
is a friend to a conspiracy to not fall again a weakness that seems to be common: that of being
seduced by women, to devote up too much of his time, gallantry ... That friend who writes as
if I already knew that in reality a new adventure with another woman distracts compliance his
duty to his fellow ... Why do you avoid my eyes now? If I ask who is this woman, what would
you answer me?

Russia responded firmly, fixing his eyes on the judge.

- It's me.

- Ah!

Do you confess? - Ferpierre said .-- The other day my suspicions
offended you!

... Well!

Now tell me when was this change in relations between you?

- When
he came to Zurich.

- Did you specifically?

- No.

- Why then?

-
For political reasons.

- Explain how you made this change in relationships.

In two years there had been you more than twice.

Is said to you in either a word of love?

- None.

- Do you?

- I loved from the first day I came to my rescue.

As much as the girl tried to control himself, his voice betrayed a
secret embarrassment.

- So you were the first to speak?

- No.

-
Was it him who said, well, suddenly, after not having thought of you
during two years?

- He stayed several months in Zurich and we see
every day.

- You did not know that, after leaving the Countess, came
precisely from Zurich for her?

- No.

- How is it possible?

A moment ago you told me also to ask if he knew the Zakunine relations
with Italy, which you did not deal with those things.

If you loved you really how you felt no burning desire to see him free?

- I knew I was free.

- Do you mean that his commitment to the Countess
was not valid for him?

- I mean you no longer loved her.

- But do
not you know that she did love him?

- Lately, I loved him not.

-
Then why did you come back to your side?

- They had common interests.

-
Do you call the common interests of those loans that he is the debtor
... But if she not love her and could not be jealous of you!

- No.

-
So why death would have occurred?

- Do not know.

Because of his scruples, probably.

- "Because I wanted another and could not be yours?

- Do not know. Maybe. Suicide, although it seems well thought-out,
is always a momentary impulse or unplanned.

Just a matter of pain.

She had many.

- Explain you very well!

... Did the Countess Prince loved another?

- Not really.

- Have
you ever talked to you about that?

- Never.

- Now let's examine
the Prince.

The young man left, and the judge ordered the release introduced Zakunine.

His

attitude in the prison was completely different from that observed
for alleged accomplice.

Nothing had asked for himself, no food, special, no books, no paper,
nothing had complained, had hardly spoken a word that the guards had
passed time lying in bed motionless, as if asleep.

In its general appearance, in their dark circles deep, was visible
the work that was done inside, but what did it mortified?

"The injustice of the accusation or the remorse of crime? When Ferpierre Asked if he persisted
in his statements, had nothing to add to justified replied in a choked voice:

- No.

- The other day you recognize your faults, confessed that he had responded
to the affection he professed the Countess.
