 It seemed a courtier of Louis XV or a big house coachman.

Don Roque, that was his name, turned in his seat and gave a voice.

-
Marcones!

An octogenarian sheriff approached the back of the box with the big blue visor cap tray in hand.
Mayor conferred with him a few times.

Marcones rose to the pan down shortly after with a young sailor suit, clutching his arm. Both
came the presidential box.

Don Roque began to curse him trying to mute the sound and getting
it halfway.

They heard of Occasionally !»... :--«¡ Dunce "You have no shred of
education"

... "Acorn animal" ... "Would you figures that are in the tavern?

"The sailor held his eyes sprayed on the ground.

A voice shouted from the courtyard:

- A ride to jail.

But from the other pot instantly replied:

- It also carried the Esguila Pepe.

- Silence! Silence!

The mayor, having harshly reprimanded and threatened Barnacle, let him come again Once your site,
with great satisfaction the pot, which was received with cheers and applause.

The orchestra, silent for a moment, returned to his hellish prelude.

Before it was over, started out by setting traps to a dozen devils
with paths and huge wigs in tow, the tail label, and torches in their
hands.

Just as we found on the floorboards and closed conveniently traps, were started, of course,
a fantastic dance, it is well known of old that can not be together
four demons without giving the ball furiously. Viewers followed his
living with extreme curiosity and rhythmic movements. A boy cried.
The public forced his mother to do sacase.

But lo, with much coming
and going, passing and rub the ministers of Beelzebub in that no very
large enclosure, a torch was to set fire to the wig of one of them.
The poor devil without realizing it, danced more and more infernal
rapture. The audience laughed loudly waiting for the next outcome
of that incident. In fact, when he felt hot head more than necessary
evil spirit, was quick to pull the wig and mask, have revealed the
face of Levita, where he painted the terror.

- Levita! - Shouted
the audience exhilarated.

The rogue had this nickname, deprived of
their attributes hell, confused and embarrassed withdrew from the
scene