 The path is dark because it is in the bowels of the earth, but I precedes a very practical
guide, holding in his hand a torch that glows with radiant light.

§ IV.

The perfection of the profession depends on the perfection with known objects in them.

The perfect knowledge of things in the scientific order, is the truly wise; practical in order for
the settlement of the conduct in the affairs of life, as the wise; in managing the affairs of state,
form the great politicians, and in all professions, is each one more or less advantaged, to greater
or lesser proportion of object knowledge to treat or manage. But this knowledge must be practical,
it must also embrace the details of execution, which are small truths, so to speak, of which there
can be discounted if you want to achieve the object. These are many small truths in all professions;
It suffices to convince, to hear those who are concerned even in most simple trades. What is
it the best farmer? The most familiar qualities of the terrain, climate, seeds and plants that
you know what the best methods and instruments of husbandry, and best guesses on the opportunity
to use them in a word, who knows the media More to the point to make the land produce low cost,
very, soon and good. The Farmers will be better because you know more truths relating to the
practice of his profession. What is the best carpenter? The best known of the nature and qualities
of wood, particular mode of working, and the art of arranging them in the most suitable to use
they are intended. That is, the best carpenter is one who knows more truths about art. What
will be the best trader? The best known genera of traffic, points where it is more advantageous
to bring them, means more to the point to lead without deterioration, with alacrity and cheapness,
markets convenient to expend more quickly and gain: ie one that holds more truths about the objects
of trade, who knows further the reality of things in which they are
responsible.

§ V.

Everyone's interest to think well.

Then flings himself to see that the art of thinking it does not matter only to philosophers
but also simplest to the nations. The understanding is a precious gift bestowed upon us by
the Creator, is the light that is given us to guide our actions, and clear is that one of the
first must take care to be well groomed man is in this light.

If she misses we were plunged into darkness, we grope, and for this
reason we must not let it be off.

We should not have the understanding of inaction, in danger of being
put obtuse stupid, and on the other hand, when we intend to exercise
and Aviva, its light should is good for us not to dazzle, well-run
so we are not lost.

§ VI.

How to teach them to think well.

The art of thinking well do not learn both rules and models. For those who insist in teaching
force requirements and analytical observations, they could compare with who employ a similar
method to teach children to speak or walk. Why not condemn all the rules, but they hold to be
taken with more parsimony, less pretentious philosophical, and especially
in a simple, practical, next to the rule by example.

A child mispronounced certain words, to correct what they see their
parents or teachers?

The pronounce them well and then make the child say them: "Hear well
as I I mean, to see you now, do not put your lips look this way, do
not do much effort with the tongue "and other things along those lines.

Here is the precept by example, the rule and how to practice [1].

CHAPTER II.

CARE.

There are ways that lead to knowledge of the truth, and obstacles that prevent us from to him, teach
employees first, and to remove the latter is the subject of the art of thinking well.

§ I.

Definition of care. Their need.

Attention is the application of the mind to an object. The first way to think is to meet well.
The ax will not cut unless it is applied to the tree, sickle mowing if it is not applied to
the stem. Sometimes objects are offered without that meets the spirit, and happen to see without
looking, and hear without listening, but the knowledge acquired in this way is always litgh
superficial, often inaccurate, or completely wrong. Without the attention we are distracted, our
spirit is, so to speak, elsewhere, and therefore do not see what
is shown.

It is of utmost importance to acquire a habit of attending to what
is studied or done, because, although there has been, what we often
lack is the ability to understand what we see, read or hear, but the
application of encouragement to those concerned.

An event we are told, but we hear the narrative with loose attention, alternating thousand comments
and questions, hands or looking at objects that distract us, of what is circumstances that are
beyond us interesting, that we overlook essentials, and trying to
tell others, or meditated upon ourselves to form opinion, presents
the fact distorted, incomplete, and so fall into errors that result
from lack capacity, but not paying due attention to the narrator.

§ II.

Advantages and disadvantages of their care need.

A friendly spirit multiplied their forces in an incredible way, so
use the time treasuring always flow of ideas more clearly perceived
and accuracy, and finally remembers more easily, owing to the continuous
attention that these are placed naturally in the head in an orderly
manner.

Those who do not attend but loose, walk their understanding of different places to one time, here
they receive an impression, there is quite another, build a hundred things unrelated that far
from helping each other for clarification and retention, confused, muddled and erased each other. No
reading, no conversation, no show, however insignificant they may seem, can instruct us not
into something. Attention to the precious notice and collect, with the distraction we may drop your
pearls and gold thing trivial.

§ III.

How should the attention. Dazed and withdrawn.

Some believe that such fatigue much attention, but they are wrong. When I talk about attention I
do not mean that fixity of spirit that is nailed, so to speak, on objects, but a soft and restful
application that allows everything to take over, leaving however
with the agility to move effortlessly from one occupation to another.

This attention is not incompatible with either the same fun and recreation, it is clear that
the spread mood is not not think, but do not address things work, and to surrender to more
flat and Thin.

The sage who interrupted his studies out to deep solace time with
the amenity of the countryside, no fatigue, distracted earlier when
in the state of the harvest, to the labors of the farmers, the murmur
of streams, or the singing of birds.

So far I consider attention as severe and continuous abstraction, that quite the opposite story
in the number of distracted, not only to the giddy but also to the self-absorbed. Those are
spilled on the outside, they wander through the dark regions within; each other lack the appropriate
attention, which is what is used in what concerned.

The friendly man has the advantage of being more urban and cutting, because the self-esteem else
is hurt, if they notice we are not attending to what they say. Is remarkable the civility or lack
thereof surname is also attention or inattention.

§ IV.

Interruptions.

You are only a few cases, even serious research, so deep that require
attention that can not be interrupted without serious damage.

Some people complain bitterly if a visit to untimely, or an unexpected noise, cut them, as they
say, the thread of discourse such heads resemble the daguerreotype, in which the slightest movement
of the object, or the interposition of another strange enough to ruin the portrait or landscape.
In some is perhaps a natural defect in others a conceited affectation for taking the thinker, and
on many non-habit of concentrating. Since it is necessary to get used to having strong and flexible
attention to a time, and ensure the formation of our concepts not resemble the pictures to
the daguerreotype, but of common, if the painter is interrupted, suspended its work, and they
resumed is not squandered his work, if a body makes unwelcome shadow, stirring, let it all cured
[2].

CHAPTER III.

Career choice.

§ I.

Vague meaning of the word talent.

Everyone must engage in the profession for which you feel more fitness.

I judge a lot importance of this rule, and coat the deep conviction
that his forgetfulness might be that no have much more advanced science
and the arts.

The word talent expressed for some absolute capacity, mistakenly
believing that he is endowed with happy dispositions for one thing
it is equally for all.

Nothing more false, a man can be outstanding, extraordinary, monstrous capacity for one class,
and be very medium and even denied with respect to others. Napoleon and Descartes are two geniuses,
and yet are nothing like. The genius of the war had not understood the genius of philosophy,
and if they had talked a while, it is likely that both would have been dissatisfied, Napoleon would
not have exempted between the dismissive air that surname ideologues.

I could write a work of comparison talent, expressing the profound differences that mediate
even among the most extraordinary. But the experience of every day we manifest this truth
so palpable.

Men that run we hear and act on a matter with admirable success, while in another they are
very vulgar, and even clumsy and inattentive. Few will reach a capacity equal to all, and perhaps
we could say that no, because the observation shows that there are provisions that become pregnant,
and damaged another.

Generalist who has the talent is not easy holding the meticulous accuracy, the poet who lives
in beautiful and sublime inspirations, not out of work shall conform to the rhythmic regular
geometric studies.

§ II.

Instinct tells us the race that best fits us.

The Creator, which distributes the power to men in different degrees, they reported a wonderful instinct
that shows your destination: the inclinations towards durable and constant an occupation, is
pretty sure sign that we are born with an aptitude for it, as well as the diversion and disgust
can not be overcome easily, it is a sign that the Author of nature has given us not happy
dispositions for what we dislike. Foods suit us well suited to the palate and nose, not tainted
by bad habits or altered sick, and the taste and smell warn us ungrateful what are the food
and drink which by its corruption and other qualities, could dañarmos. God has not taken care
less the soul from the body.

Parents, teachers, principals of education and teaching should fix a lot of attention at this
point, to forestall the loss of a talented, well employee, may give the most precious fruits,
and avoid eating right is not a chore for which there has been born.

The same question has to deal also in this test, the twelve year old boy has at reflection common
enough to notice what is inclined to, what it costs less work, what
are the studies being conducted more easily, what are the tasks that
experiences more ingenuity and skill.

§ III.

Experiment to discern the unique talents of each child.

It would be desirable to offer the viewer of children very different
objects, leading to visit places where the particular disposition
of each one could be excited the presence of what best suits you.

Then, leaving them abandoned to his instincts, would form an intelligent observer of course ratings.
Keep the machine a clock in sight of a reunion of children from ten to twelve years, and it is
certain that if including any mechanical genius is very advantaged, will be released since then
by the curiosity to examine, for the discretion of the questions,
and ease in understanding construction is contemplated.

Needles a bit poetic, and if there are among them some Garcilaso, Lope de Vega, Ercilla, Calderon
or Melendez, will see their eyes sparkle, you will know your heart
beats, his mind is agitated, his fantasy becomes inflamed under an
impression that he does not understand.

Beware trocar papers: two special children is very possible you to
form two common men.

The swallow and the eagle is distinguished by its strength and lijereza
wings, and yet ever the eagle could fly to the manner of a swallow,
and this copy the queen of birds.

The attempt diu quid ferre recusent, Valeant humeri quid, that Horacio
instilled writers, can also be applied to those who try to choose
a profession either [3].

CHAPTER IV.

ISSUES OF POSSIBILITY.

§ I.

A classification of the acts of our understanding, and the issues before it can offer.

For clarity, we divide the actions of our understanding in two classes: speculative and practical.
Speculative name is limited to those who know, and studies which lead us to act.

When we try just to know something, we can offer the following questions: 1 ª. if possible or
not, 2 ª. if it exists or not, 3 ª. what is its nature, what its
properties and relationships.

The rules being taken to address these three questions correctly, include Regarding all the speculation.

If
we are to act, it is clear that we always try to get some order, of which arise following issues:
1 ª. what is the end, 2 ª. what is the best way to reach you.

I urge the reader to fix the attention on the divisions that precede
and seek retain in memory, as well as facilitating the understanding
of what I have to say will serve you very much to proceed with the
method in all his thoughts.

§ II.

Ideas of possibility and impossibility. Their rankings.

Possibility. The idea expressed by this word is correlative to impossible,
because that one necessarily involves the denial of the other.

The words possibility and impossibility, expressed ideas very different, according to refer
to the things themselves, or to the power of a cause that may occur. However, these ideas have
very intimate relationships, as we shall see. When considering the possibility or impossible,
only with respect to a being, irrespective of any cause, are called intrinsic; and when caring for a cause,
are called extrinsic. Despite the apparent simplicity and clarity of this division, I see that
it is impossible to form full concept of what it means, to have descended to the different classifications
will set out in the following paragraphs.

At first glance one may wonder who first explain the impossibility
of possibility; But a little reflection, we note that this method
is very logical.

The word impossible, though it sounds negative, but several times
expressed an idea to our understanding is presented as positive: that
is, the reluctance of the objects, a kind of exclusion, of opposition,
struggle, so to speak, so that in dying for this reluctance, and the
ability to conceive.

Born here the expressions of "this is very possible, for nothing opposes it, "" possible, as
there is no contradiction. "Since, in knowing what is impossible, we know what is the possibility,
and vice-versa.

Some distinguish three kinds of impossibility: metaphysical, physical and moral. I will adopt
this division, but adding one member, who will be the impossibility of common sense. Instead
will be the reason that I founded. They also warn that it may be better to call failure absolute
to the metaphysical to the physical natural, and ordinary morality.

§ III.

What is the absolute or metaphysical impossibility.

The absolute or metaphysical impossibility, is that based on the very
essence of things or in other words, it is absolutely impossible that
which, if any, would bring the absurd that something serious and not
serious at the same moment.

A circle is an impossible triangle absolute because outside circle and not a circle, triangle and no
triangle. Five equal to seven, it is impossible all because the five would be five, not five,
and seven would be seven, not seven. A vice is an absolute virtuoso impossible, because the service
outside and not vice at the same moment.

§ IV.

The absolute inability and divine omnipotence.

What is absolutely impossible does not exist in any conceivable assumption, therefore even when
we say that God is almighty, we understand that you can make absurd. That world exists and there
at the same moment, that God is and is not, that blasphemy is a laudable act, and other delusions
by this wording, it is clear that not fall under the action of omnipotence; and, as St. Thomas
observes wisely, rather it should be said that these things can not be done, not that God can
not do them. It follows that the intrinsic impossibility absolute extrinsic brings too absolute impossibility:
namely, that no cause may occur which in itself is absolutely impossible.

§ V.

Absolutely impossible, and dogmas.
To say that one thing is absolutely impossible we must have very
clear ideas end that is repugnant, otherwise there is risk of surname
it really absurd it is not. I make this warning to point out the injustice
of condemning some mysteries of our faith, declaring absolutely impossible.
The dogma of the Trinity and the Incarnation are certainly incomprehensible
to the weak man, but not absurd. How can a Triune God, one nature
and three persons other than each other, identical with nature? I
do not know, but I have no right to infer that this is contradictory.
Do I understand by chance what is this nature, what are these people
that I speak? No: Then when I want to judge whether what they say
is impossible or not, failure of unknown objects. What we know of
the mysteries of divinity? The Lord has spoken a few words mysterious
to exercise our obedience, and humble our pride, but did not want
lifting the thick veil that separates this mortal life in the ocean
of truth and light.

§ VI.

Idea of ??natural or physical impossibility.
Natural or physical inability, is that a fact is beyond the laws
of nature. It is naturally impossible that a stone dropped in the
air does not fall to the ground, the water left to itself does not
get to the level that a body immersed in a fluid, less serious not
sink, that the stars stand in their careers, because the laws of nature
prescribed otherwise. God has established these laws, adjourn, and
the man. What is naturally impossible, it is for the creature, not
God.

§ VII.

Way to judge the natural impossibility.

When we say
that an event is naturally impossible? On being assured that There
is a law that is opposed to the realization of this fact, and that
such opposition is not destroyed or neutralized by another law of
nature. It is a law of nature that man's body as heavier than air,
falls to the ground in support lacking, but there is another law that
a set of bodies joined together, it is specifically less severe than
that in which sinks, is sustained and to be lifted, even if one of
them is more serious than fluid, then joined the human body to a hot
air balloon art provided with convenient can be traced in the air,
and this phenomenon will be done up to the laws of nature. The smallness
of certain insects does not allow his image is painted on our retina
of a appreciably, but laws that are subject to make light through
a glass can change the direction of its rays as appropriate, to come
out of a very small object were scattered on reaching the retina,
and form an image there large and so is not naturally impossible that
with the help of a microscope, the imperceptible to the naked eye
we are present with large dimensions