 

Invia Inca Yupanqui had captains with people for other parties to secure evidence to many people
to his service with the more soft it could, and he sent messengers on the Soras it should not
take arms against him, promising to take a lot of them do not insult or damage, but did not
want peace with slavery, but not lose the war for freedom. And so together with each other,
had the battle, which, according to those who had della memory that was hard fought and killed
many on both sides, but leaving the field by the Cuzco. Those who escaped being killed and prisoners,
were howling and wailing to his people, where to put some charge on their farms, and taking their
women, deserted and were, as published, to a strong Penol, quest Vilcas river near where he
had in above many caves and water for nature, and in this Peñoles collected many men their
wives, and he prepared him for fear of the Inca, providing themselves the most supplies that
could. And Soras only be collected to this Penol, that the region of river Guamanga and Vilcas
and other parties joined them were terrified to hear that I wanted to be one Lord Inca of the
people.

Losing the battle, the victors enjoyed the spoils, and the Inca ordered not to harm to the captives,
before the release sent to all of them, and ordered a captain to go to the people of Condesuyo
Pumatampu the part of [157], and as you walk in and he knew have gone Soras people to Penol
and said, bore with great anger and determined to go to the fence, and so he sent his captains
with the men of war go against them.

Very great things have dried apricots Deste Inca Tupac Inca Yupanqui and his son, Huayna Capac,
his grandson, because these were of those who were more courageous. Such as may be reading their
occurrences, believe that I removed before I knew it, not adding anything, and to affirm it certainly
must be what it is because I no longer claim more than [158] write out relation of these Indians,
and I think this and more for the trails and signs His footsteps stopped these kings, and
by his great power, which demonstrates to be nothing I write this for what happened, that memory
will last in Peru while men had of the natives.

E back to the purpose, like the Inca both wanted to have at hand the quest in the Penol, was with his
people to reach the river Vilcas. Those in the region, as they learned his stay there, many
came to see him, making great services, and signed with his friendship, and his office began
to make rooms and large buildings in which they now call Vilcas, being masters of Cuzco to
give the trace and to show how they were to put the stones and slabs in the building. Coming, then,
to Penol, tried with all good reason to appeal to their friendship to them that it was indeed strong,
sending his messengers; but they laughed at his words and throwing many shots of stone. The
Inca, seeing its purpose, determined not to let go without punishment made them. And he knew how
the captains sent Condesuyo to the province, had given some of those battles to the land and
had up and put in your lordship's most of the province and because of Collao would not think
that had to be safe, be brave knowing Hastu Guaraca, the lord of Andahuaylas, ordered him and
his brother Tupac UASC [159] was to depart for the attempt to put Collao in his lordship to
the natives. They replied that they would do as commanded, and then
left for land, for from it go to Cuzco to join the army who had to
carry.

Los del Penol, still in its intention to defend himself, and had surrounded the Inca, and passed
between them and other great things, because it was over the fence, and at last, missing the maintenance,
is hobieron giving those in El Penol, obliged to serve as others, to Cuzco, and give tribute
and warriors. And with this easement were in favor Inca, who say they do not anger them, before
they send them to provide maintenance and other things, and sent
it to their land, others say that he killed them all without any escape.

The first thing I think, but as one and the other did not say I know more about these Indians.

Finish
this, they say that in many parts came to offer the service of the Inca, and received grace to
all who came, and he left it to return to Cuzco, and found on the road made many quarters, and
that most parties had down the slopes the natives, and had reached
villages on the plain as ordered and ordered.

Arrived at Cuzco, he was received his style with great pomp, and made great feasts. The commanded by
captains who had gone to war again with the Collao, had gone to Chucuito, and had some battles
in parts of the province, and out victors sujetábanlo all the dominion of the Inca, and was
Condesuyo do the same. And it was very powerful and everywhere flocked lords and masters to serve
him with the rich men of the people, and paid tribute with large order, and to other personal services,
but all with great concert and justice. When they came to speak, were lightly loaded; mirávanle little
face, when he spoke, who heard him trembling in fear or something else, rarely went out in public, and
in war was always the front, would not allow anyone, without his command, had jewelry or settlement
and wandered about in litters, in short, this was the one who paved
the way for the government as excellent The Incas had.

After what has been eScript, dried apricots have that is so powerful as the king Inca, sent
to call people, because I wanted to start another war more important than the past, and to fulfill
its mandate, attended by many leading to large numbers of people armed with weapons they use,
they are deep, axes, clubs, Aillas, darts and spears few. As assembled, he ordered them treats
and parties, and to brighten every day left with a new suit or dress, as it had the nation that
wanted to honor that day, and last, It became another, according as it had those who were called
to treat and drunkenness. With this holgábanse much as here you can encarescer. When they made these
great dances, surrounded the square of Cuzco, a chain of gold that had been ordered to be taxed
as much the regions, as large as in the back I have said, and other
major packages and greatness antiquities.

And as the days hobiesen loose paresció them to Inca Yupanqui, told them how I wanted they were
to the Huancas, and to the Yauyos [161], their neighbors, and strive for bringing [162] in his friendship
and service without war, and when not, that giving it, it should give knack of overcoming and
force them to. They all replied they would do what he commanded with great determination. Were
designated captains of each nation, and all was for general Lloque Yupanqui, and with it for
advice, Tupac Yupanqui [163], and advising them of what they had to do, left Cuzco and walked
to the province of Andahuaylas, where they were well received by
the Chanca and left with them a copy of Captain Ancoallo with people
of that land, to serve war on the Inca.

In Andaguaylas went to Vilcas, to where the chambers and temples of Inca Yupanqui sun had commanded
to do, and spoke with love to those who understood in those works. Vilcas were for the people
[of] Guamanga Azángaro PARC, Picoy, Acos [164] and others, which
and had given obedience to the Inca and provided with supplies and
what more they had in their peoples, and to the road that was sent
them, great and very wide.

The Xauxa Valley, known for the coming of the enemy, attempted to show fear and favor their
relatives and friends, and his temple of Guarivilca made great sacrifices to there demon replied.
Venídoles relief, as they were many, they say who had more than forty thousand men to where
now I do not know if there are twelve mill, masters the Inca came to be above the valley, and
wanted no war to win thanks the Huancas and they wanted to go to Cuzco to recognize the king
as Lord, and so is public they sent messengers. But no advantage at all, came to his hands and
gave a great battle they say they killed many of either side, but that left Cuzco by victors,
and that is of great prudence Lloque Yupanqui, did not consent to harm the valley, preventing
theft, sending the captives release, so much so that the Huancas, known benefit to having them
clemency used up, came to speak and promised to live from then on by the ordinance of the kings of
Cuzco, and thus taxed hobiese in the valley, and from their villages by the slopes, planted,
otherwise distribute, until King Huayna Capac bias signal to each
what he had to take, and sent messengers.

The natives had savido Bonbon, according to this count, the rout of Xauxa, and how had Huancas been
[165] up, and suspecting that the victors wanted to move on, agreed to be summoned, because tomasen
not neglected, and putting their wives and children to the ranch they could in a lake that
is near it [166], waiting for it to happen. Masters the Inca, as things settled hobieron Valley Xauxa came
out and walked up Bonbon, and as they entered the lagoon, they are not doing any further damage that
could eat them the maintenance; and as it were, went ahead and draw nigh to him of Tarama, to
where they found the natives gun positions, and hobieron battle in which they were imprisoned
and killed many of the Taramentinos, Cuzco and the winners were from, and as I dejasen in the
king's will, [that] you serve and pay tribute as did many other provinces, and that would be
well treated and favored, did everything I was commanded, and relationship
to Cuzco envióse all had been done in this town of Tarama.

The Indians Chance, as the Indians who left their province Andaguaylas with Captain Ancoallo
hobiesen great deeds done in these wars, jealous of them and set with rancor against the captain who
had Ancoallo more ago, when the Cuzco was fenced determined to kill them, and thus, was summoned,
and as were many together with his captain understand the intentions they had, and put into
a weapon, fought [the] Cuzco and even killed some, could the other, with the help and effort
Ancoallo of (well) out of there, which complained to their gods from the evil of the apricots,
and ingratitude, stating that, by not more or follow, it would go with his family in voluntary
exile; and throwing women before, walked and walked through the provinces of Chachapoyas and
Huanuco, and through the Andes mountain, walked through those mountains until they came, according
to also say, to a large lagoon, which I think must be what they tell Dorado, whither made their
villages and multiplied many people.

And the Indians have great things that land and the captain Ancoallo.

The captains of the Inca, after what has been eScript, turned the valley Xauxa where already
had great close friend, and many women present to bring to Cuzco, and do the same did Tarama
those. The new all went to Cuzco, and as it was known by the Inca, rejoiced by good fortune
of their masters, though he signs [of] him what they had done heavy with Ancoallo. But it was,
it is believed, industry, because some say that by his command did their masters. And Tupac
and other Chancas UASC hobiesen gone to make war to the province of Collao and hobiesen been
no victory of some people, suspicious of the Inca that new known what had happened to Ancoallo
would turn against him and would do treason, sent messengers to them
then they should come to him, and commanded, on pain of death, none
warned of the past.

The Chancas, as were the order of the Inca, then came to Cuzco, and as they arrived, the Inca
with great dissimulation spoke lovingly, concealing the evil that was used to Ancoallo captain, and
gave his words heavy dello Habell samples. The Chancas, as understood, did not fail to feel
the shame, but, seeing how few of them were to be met, passed through it, asking leave to Inca
Yupanqui to return to his province, and being so granted, were split,
giving privilege to be principal lord could sit in the Duho [167]
engastonado in gold, and other pre-eminence.

And understood the Inca temple Curicancha acrescentar with great riches, as is already eScript. And
like everywhere Cuzco had many provinces, gave some to this temple and sent to the posts, and they
speak a language all their own Sudit, which were made the highways, and mitimaes, and other things
invented the king, who said he understood Many of the stars and has had the sun's movement,
and so took him by nickname Inca Yupanqui, which is the account name and a lot of understanding.
And as is so powerful Notwithstanding that in Cuzco had large buildings and royal palaces, he
ordered three enclosures of wall Excellency and coordinates the work of memory, and such Paresce
today, so that anyone will not praise the building and learn to be great ingenuity of the teachers
who invented it. Each Near this is more than three hundred steps to a Pucamarca call, and
the other Hatun Court, and the third Cassana [168], and is of excellent and fantastic stone as
per level, not disproportion is a thing, and so well settled and so stuck stones, which can
not even see the joint in them. "

They are so strong and so whole the most outstanding buildings, if not apart, as have many others,
will live many ages.

WITH THESE fences or walls within rooms and others had used Quellos, where they were number of
virgins and many women and concubines of the kings, and spun and wove of your so fine clothes,
and had many pieces of gold and silver and vessels these metals. Many I saw stones WITH THESE
WITH THESE some fences, and it frightens me how, being so large, were as first place .-- When
they made the big dances and parties in Cuzco, was made much of its chicha for those women
and bebíanla .-- And as so many parties to come to Cuzco, sent to
providers to not come out without his permission no gold or silver
than entered, and stood by the mesmos governors over the kingdom,
and ruled them all with great justice and order