 But he was repelled how
sensitive this office, and would not leave her quiet and that it was dark live so happy. If
finally accepted Bringas, would go only to his island, and the bereaved wife Madrid would be
free to release all those clothes I wanted. But being the most likely that the great economist did
not accept, Rosalia brains warmed output flowing commitment, and finally found a formula that,
long before the opportunity to use it, stirring and rehearsed in his mind.

XVI

You see, my son - he said to himself a month before the fact
were true - which has happened ... Not to be meant for you not upset,
because after our friend is, and at home This work has been done.

Emilia demanded payment in advance ... Pure stubbornness. Suddenly, shot! ... Nephew passed
the bill. Neither one nor the other could not answer the poor Miracles ... You have no idea
of ??the monkey business ... I'll tell you. Anyway, I had to stay with dresses for less than
a third of its value and so I've managed myself to not spend ... Is given, is a real bargain ...
Emilia has committed it, and says paid when I want ... You see ...

The comedy was well prepared for when the case came to represent. Meanwhile, are working tirelessly
in the Camon, with the assistance of Milagros, who every day had
a novelty, happy ideas, inspiration latest prolific genius, verbi
gratia:

"I can not be very splendid this summer.

You see how I dress. Home of the Children Rotondo gave me twenty-five yards Bareges very arregladito
... I have said San Salomó that Bareges will be a lot this summer. Frankly, I Mozambique suck
ya ... Yes ... fix the dress with a truly pastoral simplicity. See
you ... three leaflets and thin silk trim.

The narrow flounce, trimmed with lace and inset, embroidery, pad forming to hockey ... Purple
belt closed front a escarapelita ... Did you know that hat I think is loud? ... I have another
in the project. You see. I keep a cap last year and those tapes velvet ... I lack no more
than a plume and a marabout of novelty that will put the right side and ...».

In early May, Rosalia had to escape, not without regret, to this delightful work. The doctor had
ordered Isabelita was taken out for a walk every morning. The weather was beautiful and guests
to enjoy the quiet amenity of the Retiro. Began the lady walks with Isabelita morning and the
little, and since the second day were added Mr. Fish, rebels who suffered from loss of appetite.
Moreno Rubio had prescribed that morning, which put under his belt
a large glass of water from the Egyptian source or Health and that
strolled after for two hours before lunchtime.

How happy would the four to the reserve, whose entry will be crossed, because Rosalie of the house!
And how much the kids enjoyed seeing the house of the Poor, Smuggler's and Persian, throwing crumbs
to the ducks Fisherman's house, going to the race spirals of artificial mountain, which is
really the height of artifice! All those royal whims, as well as menagerie, declare the reign
of Ferdinand VII, that if policy was brutal, arts was pure nonsense.

Rosalie and D. Manuel, favorably influenced by the show of the vegetation, the fresh itching
air and sun of May, budded, and at times almost like kids were so kids, that is, talking recklessly,
and his gait was not always as measured corresponding to serious people, since he rushed, and it
contained more of the account while the children played hide and seek among the thick bushes.
The glass of water, working marvelously on the mucosa and the entire
digestive tract of good official, produced wonderful effects.

Activated its vital functions, regained his joy and pompous verbosity: instincts Gallant did
not stay back on that resurrection morning. It seems incredible that a glass water, producing
such effects. How many times have on hand without being aware of it, the cure of inveterate evils!
... The easy word Pez, jumping from one concept to another, came to the chapter of flattery,
in that case were very reasonable, and there was the weight the freshness and grace of the lady. How well
you feel everything that was going down, and what majesty he bears! Few people had as she the art
of dressing and the secret of making smart terms of use ... These puffs of incense drowned
Rosalie, I mean, the deposit vanity (some bladder that fools are on the chest) is extremely
inflated and only allowed to breathe. She also tickled inside the desire to some confidence,
but respect for her husband put a brake. Finally, rather extreme Fish the eulogies of her indiscretion
that overcame prudence. We saw several Sometimes they returned, she charged her with a bouquet
of lilacs, the veil a little thrown back, which if composure to sacrifice freedom of country
life, the face somewhat ignition agitation of the ride and the vehemence of the speech, he charged
with another class supplementary Pollastre made with ten years removed by magic off your body,
children, fluttering prays in front, sometimes behind, getting dirty ground and beaten with sticks,
shaking the trees tender and jumping ditches mother outputs. Rosalie spoke, but who but the same
Pez, could pick his words, imbued with a sweet melancholy and despair?

The poor girl could not wear anything because her husband ... Above all, do not tire of repeating
he was an angel, a being of perfection ... But this did not remove it very cheap and that I had
a bad subject to bring, tarnished and forgotten. And it was certainly not because they lacked
media, as Bringas had their savings, meeting room to room. And why? To damn the thing, for the simple
pleasure of collecting coins and count one and looked again Cajoncillo of sometimes ... No doubt
this man ... it was very good, yes, but no husband and father excellent ... could not put his
wife in the range that corresponded to both of their position.

Because she had to mingle with people over viso, with titles and the Queen herself; and Bringas,
not seeing things rather than through the eyes of misery, was determined to reduce the dress
merino and four rags outdated and ugly. Oh, what she suffered, which penalized him for clean
up was incredible. Only God and she knew it! ... Because her husband had been account and reason
for everything, even the parsley was spent in the kitchen resulted in figures in your notebook
... The poor wife, attentive to the dignity of their social position, was a pure Newton, mathematics
had to scramble in order to procure a caletre excess expenditure of the house and stretch the petty
amounts Bringas gave dressing. The wretched fingers are peeling sewing and arranging his clothes,
and detail of it in the account and why it was so extreme that it looked and wanted to one day be
able to filter three reals, another two and a half, and sometimes could do nothing. The continuity
of such disorders was a life of martyrdom, not that he wanted to have luxury, no: but judge that
his decency and contact people with high inescapable duties imposed on him, believing that
she and the children they should not make bad role in the houses where they were, did not
like the friends of mirasen sideways and whispered among themselves, noting it as a skirt or
a piece inlaid cheesy and outdated ... However, her husband dearly wanted, because outside of that
of the misery was a complete man, a being of choice, good and loving, honest and just or as
any man I ever had or tried fiddling with whores, and since a drive to a letter, and finally,
to temper so peaceful, that he would not be rapping at his budget, it made him what he wanted
... Considering this, the unfortunate patient had with the other, ie apurillos dressing, and could
be handled as not to detract from its high class ... Where was that both Mr. and Mrs. Fish had
respectively Rosalia their reasons for marital disagreement, he furious because of the sanctities
of his wife, sordideces her by her husband, which proves that no one is complete in this wretched
world, and it is rare to find two characters in full and mutual accommodation inside the cage
of marriage, as the devil or God or society puzzle and change partners for all rage, and everyone,
each in his cage, do merit for eternal glory.

XVII

When the conversation turned to these philosophies, going out the door of the pavilion. They were already
torn up the famous malls Buckeyes, removed the fence and posts land for sale, an operation called
trait. This word was very unfortunate for Monarchy tree who earned no more ancient than the
brown, because I also will uprooted and made firewood of it.

Going from Retiro to the streets, visitors regained their composure. Iban before the children
holding hands.

The elderly, in view of the regular population, ceased in those confidence
that seemed tasty fruit farm amenity.

It was like going from a country free to one where everything is correct and regulations. At home,
when he worked in the Camon alone or with Emilia, Bringas used to chew the expansions in the
morning, adding conceptillos they did not dare to cross the borders of thought. Without neglecting
rags, dreamy lady went out into the world, exercising the right to review and correction social
things, granted in the realm of mind to all those who think outside
their place or mismatched.

"That fish really is a man. Next to him if it could look any woman of understanding, good presence,
aristocratic bearing. But like everything is bartered touched that mule rezone Carolina ... Head
over heels! What woman of merit and not dwarfed beside this void Bringas little-thing, which sees
only trifles, and is unable to make a brilliant career and put on an illustrious position?
... Ya, what can you expect from a man who when offered a government, instead of jumping for
joy is set to give sigh and say, 'more the stick I like my tools ?...» Oh, Fish, that really
is man!

I know I do women would fall if things in the world were on the right and each person on your site.
For such a man, a woman of principles, glib, very fine lady of manners, and honor her husband knew
themselves by honoring their own, who knew him showing off showcasing herself, a lady who grew
every day making it grow, because the secret of the bright careers of some men is in the talent
of its women. Paquito said yesterday that Napoleon would have been nothing without Josephine.
If instead of this blessed fish live beside a lady in their classrooms meet the elite of politics,
and fish would minister ... Really ... If I had my hand a similar subject ...! But you go to
minister to Bringas, a man who gets angry when water should be given to anyone azucarillo comes
home, a man who wants me to view the habit and take the children with sandals. Ah, grungy, declined,
you will never be anything ... Oh Fish!, If you had married the woman who you belong, how
you had to consent to go out to the street made to put an eyesore ridiculous? ... Learn how you, bobo,
who with fifty thousand pieces of living paycheck to appearance twelve thousand dollars in income
and pay twenty-four thousand real home. And not that I have debts, is known agencies and takes
advantage of his position. This no one will ever know a little-thing a stepping-ant is preaching
me three hours because I put or not put seven chickpeas in the stew, this does not mean he does
not see beyond their salary mean, and is shaking they give you a cross for not buying the
badges, who does not want to be governor of a province, who opposes the waterboy me up two more
water tanks, because, he said, with the palm wet enough already, who says I do not need more
than eighteen rods cloth for a dress, and recommended me to adorn the hats of the children with
damask ribbon of the graduates that the army used to hang the spliff, who argues that goat hair is more
beautiful than the gro, and heaviness in the hood called just because they are cheap; who will
not let me fix the Ottoman gown with ribbons and dared to propose to use yellow tape decks
Augustine ...». cousin cigars

Some evenings, when Fish and Rosalie could not get out to the terrace because of bad weather,
three salons in Gasparini. They had to hear the compliments D. Manuel was of great work of
his friend. Standing beside him, with his left hand in your pocket, chewing mustache, looks
critically dropped on the glass so wonderful town of hairs and human head hair in some parts, other
clear, all as clean-shaven, gummy, sticky, shiny, similar to the drippings scented toiletries.

"It
is a wonder ... What hands!, What patience! This work should go to a museum. "

And yes, chewing and getting more stronger hand in your pocket

"What a mess ... It's like that head out of cork. Only you, you big silly make such grotesque,
and only my wife likes ... You are the one to the other. "

He retired from work that day D. Francisco more tired than ever. Saw double objects and his head
was so dizzy as if on board a ship.

But he was confident that such unease would be temporary, and welcomed
the advancement and beautiful effect of the work.

The angel was completely modeled and with those incredible hair points.

Willow protected with the tomb weeping branches, and it was unfortunate that there were no green
hair, as if such there was the illusion would be complete.

At the end nothing was missing and he was a model of perspective melancholy, so much so that
only those who had heart of rock could see it without feeling winning pout. There were still
flowers from the floor and the entire first term, where Bringas was running late to a broken
and fallen columns and ruined temple with which the idea of ??desolation was represented the
most perfect way.

In early June we saw some of this work completed, but there were still several small things,
Sunflowers little ones, big thoughts, not to mention a few butterflies sentimental black wings,
perched here and there, sipping the sweet Macassar in the calyxes of the flowers piliform. On
the same day the events occurred, which the artist was completely
worth strange, but for this reason it should not be forgotten here.

And was that when approaching the day appointed for their money back to Torres, Rosalie was so
crestfallen, which could be believe, seeing that he had stolen anything or inferred a huge
offense. Calculations and more calculations made, disrupting the brain, without actually solving
the problem feared and negábanse numbers to please, giving the figure I needed ... What an idea!
Would come " Mr. Fish? Oh, if I called this door would surely be heard, but did not dare. In addition,
D. Manuel is going at the time to Archena baths (because without a pair of annual fairings man
was lost), and would not return until 20. The 12 is presented Torres with his eyes of eggs
imbued with a sweet hard stunned.