 

Castilla accounts, to see how arrogant they lived by their rank, when praying the Hail Mary used
this phrase: Holy Mary, Mother of God, family and our lady, pray for us.

The arms of Castile were: Shield cut short, the first quarter in gules and Castle clear gold
of azure, the second in silver, with lion rampant gules and vert band with two dredger also
Vert.

Daring would determine which of the four is the hero of tradition, and this uncertainty the reader can
apply to either the owl, which fixed the other district will not
come to complain libel.

The admiral was such a man in a chimney flue, well paid for their scrolls and more stiff as
his starched ruff.

In the backyard a great source ostentábase stone, which the neighborhood came to stock up
on water, taking at face value the saying that water and fire to refuse anyone.

But one morning he raised his honor with a humor all hell, and gave orders to his Famula to moliesen
to stick to any creature of the scoundrel who would dare to cross
thresholds in search of the cooling element.

One of the first that suffered the penalty was a poor old woman, which caused a scandal in
the village.

The next day her son, who was a young clergyman who served the parish of St. Jerome a few leagues
from Cuzco, came to town and won the outrage inflicted on his elderly mother. He went immediately
to the house of Admiral, and the man called son scrolls goat and
green candle, and threw verbs and gerunds, frogs and snakes for that
aristocratic mouth ending a sovereign beating him to the priest.

The attack caused the excitement was immense. The authorities did not dare to declare openly against
the tycoon, and gave it time, that eventually everything quiet. But people of the village
church and excommunicated the proud admiral said.

The cleric insulted, just hours after receipt of the grievance, he went to the Cathedral and knelt
to pray before the image of Christ, given to the city by Charles V. Finished his prayer, he
left at the foot of the Supreme Court a petition stating their grievances
and demands justice of God, convinced that there was to be achieved
in men.

Diz who returned to temple the next day and picked up the complaint provided by a decree of
As marginal asks: will there be justice. And so it was three months, until one day before the
house woke up an eye on her fork and the body of excommunication, no one reached to discover the perpetrators,
even suspicions fall on the priest, who knew, with numerous witnesses, try the alibi.

In the process followed two women said the neighborhood had seen a group big-headed men and chiquirriticos,
vulgar elves, preparing the gallows, and that when it was raised,
called for three times at the door of the house, which opened the
third salvo.

Soon after Admiral, prom dress, came in the midst of the elves, who unceremoniously he was
suspended as a cluster.

Such statements justice stood in the dark and unable to proceed against
the goblins, thought it was wise to adjudicate.

If people believe as an article of faith that the goblins were excommunicated
end of the admiral, is not a journalist who has to get into tight
spots to convince him otherwise, for a lot of people skeptical of
that time murmured so low that everything that happened was work of
the Jesuits, for accretion of the importance and respect due to the
priestly state.

III

The mayor and the mayors of Cuzco realized all the viceroy, who after
hearing read the detailed report he told his secretary:

- Placem
the Moorish theme for a romance!

How about this, my good Estúñiga?

- That Your Excellency should take a monkey to those watermelons washers who have failed to find
track of the instigators of the crime.

- And then you lose the poetry of happened - the Esquilache said smiling.

-
True, sir, but will have done justice.

The viceroy was pensive a few seconds and then, rising from his seat,
put hand on the shoulder of his secretary:

- My friend, what is done
is well done, and the world would run better if, in given cases, were
not shyster shysters and other crows Themis, but elves, administering
justice.

And so, good night and God and Mary to take us in His holy guard
and deliver us goblins and remorse.

THE DUST OF THE COUNTESS

CHRONICLE OF THE AGE OF FOURTEEN VICEROY OF PERU

(By Dr. Ignacio La-Puente.)

I

In a June afternoon in 1631 all the bells of the churches of Lima
mourned funeral prayers, and the monks of the four religious orders
at that time were, gathered in full choir chanted psalms and prayers.

The inhabitants of the city three times crowned crossed for sites
that, sixty years later, the Viceroy Conde de la Monclova should build
portals Clerks and keypads, stopping in front of the side door of
the palace.

In it everything is back entrances and exits of characters, more or less characterized.

No one would say it had to anchor in Callao, a galleon with immense new Spain, such was the agitation
palace and popular! or, as in our democratic days, was doing one of those strokes of theater that
can give early end to the justice of rope and stake.

Events, such as water should be drunk at the source, and hence, with leave of the captain arquebusiers
faction is in the above door, penetrate, reader, if you please me company, in a palace recamarín.

They
were in him the most excellent Don Luis Jerónimo Fernández de Cabrera
Bobadilla and Mendoza, Count of Chinchón, Viceroy of these kingdoms
of Peru SM Philip IV, and his close friend the Marquis de Corpa.

Both were silent and looking eagerly towards the door exhaust, which
gave way to open up a new character.

This was an old man.

He wore black wool trousers half leg, corduroy shoes with buckles stone, velvet jacket and
waistcoat, hanging from the latter a thick silver chain with beautiful stamps. If we add that spent
suede gloves, the reader will know the perfect type of a Aesculapian at that time.

Dr. Juan de Vega, a native of Catalonia, newly arrived in Peru, as
a doctor the Viceroy's house was one of the luminaries of the science
that teaches to kill through a recipe.

- Well, don Juan? - Questioned
the viceroy, more with the look of the word.

- Lord, no hope.

Only a miracle can save Dona Francisca.

And Don John retired air pricked.

This short dialogue just for the less informed reader knows what it
is.

The viceroy had arrived in Lima in January 1639, and two months later, his beautiful and young
wife Dona Francisca Henriquez de Ribera, which had landed in Paita not be exposed to the hazards
of a possible naval combat with pirates.

Some time later he felt the viceroy attacked the periodic fever to
be identified by the name of tertian, and was known by the Incas as
endemic in the valley of Rimac.

It is known that when, in 1378, Pachacutec sent an army of thirty
thousand Cuzco to conquer Pachacamac, lost the flower of their troops
to the ravages of tertian.

In the first centuries of European domination, the Spanish who dwelt
in Lima also paid tribute this terrible disease, which healed without
specific known many, and not a few snatched evil.

The Countess of Chinchón was evicted. Science, speaking through his oracle Don Juan de Vega,
had failed.

- So young and so beautiful! - Told his friend, the grieving husband
-. Poor Frank!

Who I would have told you not turn back on I see your heavens of Castile and Granada cármenes?
God mine! A miracle, Lord, a miracle ...

- It will save the countess, his excellency - said a voice at the
door of the room.

The viceroy became surprised.

He was a priest, a son of Ignatius of Loyola, who had pronounced as comforting words.

The Count of Chinchón bowed to the Jesuits. It continued:

- I see the viceroy, your excellency has faith, and God will do the rest.

The viceroy led the priest to the bedside of the dying.

II

Suspend our narrative to draw very lightly box era government Don
Luis Jerónimo Fernández de Cabrera, son of Madrid, commander of Criptana
between Knights of Santiago, governor of the castle of Segovia, treasurer
of Aragon, fourth Earl Chinchón, who held the command since the January
14, 1629 to 18 in the same month of 1639.

Pacific threatened by the Portuguese and the Dutch pirate fleet of foot stick Much of the activity
of the Earl of Chinchón was devoted to putting the Callao and the square in an attitude of defense.
Chile also sent a thousand men against the Araucanian, and three
expeditions against some tribes of Puno, Tucuman and Paraguay.

To sustain the fickle luxury of Philip IV and his courtiers, was the America that contribute with
damage to its prosperity. There was excessive taxes and imposts, which trade in Lima was forced
to endure.

Data then the decline of Potosí and Huancavelica mineral, while the
discovery of Blossom and Caylloma veins.

It was under the rule of the viceroy when, in 1635, occurred the famous
banker's bankruptcy Juan de la Cueva, in which Bank - says Lorente
- had the utmost confidence and as individuals the Government.

That failure was marked, until recently, with the masquerade called
Juan de la Cova, coscoroba.

The Count of Chinchón met was so fanatical as a Christian man.

We tested many of its provisions.

No shipping could get passengers on board, if not previously exhibited a certificate of proof
of having confessed and received communion the day before. The soldiers were also obliged,
under severe penalties, to fill each year this provision, and was banned in the days Lenten
men and women came together in the same temple.

As we have written in our annals of the Inquisition of Lima, was this
the time when more victims sacrificed the court implacable faith.

Portuguese and have enough wealth to be to be buried in the dungeons of the Inquisition. Into
one of the three autos he attended the Earl of Chinchón eleven Portuguese Jews were burned,
wealthy merchants Lima.

We read in the librejo the Duke of Frias in the first prison visit he attended the count was
made regarding a case brought a gentleman from Quito, accused of
tried to revolt against the monarch.

In the present Viceroy concluded that all was slander, and ordered the prisoner release, authorizing
him to return to Quito and giving it six months later to rebel territory,
it being understood that if it could not, would pay informers the
costs of prosecution and damages suffered by the knight.

Handy way to punish whistleblowers envious scoundrels!

Some shrimp must have had its excellence with Lima when issued twice
against the covered side, which, forced to say, made them curl-and
ringlets.

Legislate against women has been and will always be lost sermon.

Back to the viceroy, who left dying in bed.

III

A month later he gave a big party at the palace to celebrate the restoration
of Dona Francisca.

Febrifuge virtue of the scale was discovered.

Fevers attacked an Indian named Pedro de Leyva Loja drank to calm
the heat of thirst, water is a haven, on whose banks grew cinchona
trees.

Saved so did the experience of giving water to other patients in
the same bad pitchers of water, depositing the roots of scale.

With the discovery came to Lima and informed a Jesuit, who, by the successful healing of the viceroy,
lent more humanity service that the monk who invented gunpowder.

The Jesuits kept secret for some years, and they came all that was attacked of tertian. Therefore,
for a long time, the powders of the cinchona bark met powders with the name of the Jesuits.

Dr.
Scrivener says a British doctor, Mr. Talbot, cured with quinine Prince
Conde, the dolphin, Colbert and other characters, selling secrets
to the French government for a considerable sum and a pension.

Linnaeus,
ascribing this as a tribute to the Countess of Chinchón viceroy, brought
to the machine the name that gives science today: Cinchona.

Mendiburu
said that, at first, found the use of quinine strong opposition in
Europe and in Salamanca was held that fall into mortal sin the doctor
who prescribed, for their virtues were due to two Peruvian pact with
the devil.

As for the people of Lima, until recently knew the powder
from the bark of this wonderful tree with the name of the Countess
powders [1].

THE JUSTICE OVER LAYCACOTA

Chronicles of the time of
the nineteenth VICEROY OF PERU

(By Dr. Jose Mariano Jimenez.)

I

In
a quiet afternoon in March, AD 1665, he found himself sitting at the
door of his hut a family of Indians. He composed it in an old woman
who claimed descent from the great Ollantay general, two daughters,
Carmen and Teresa, and a young man named Thomas.

The hut was situated
at the foot of the hill Laycacota. She fifteen or twenty more were
what is called a village of hundred people.

While the girls were
entertained in spinning, the mother told the child, for the thousandth
time family tradition. This is not a secret, well I can make it known
to my readers that are relatively large and curious details in the
important book that Title Annals of Cuzco, published my learned friend
and colleague Don Pio Benigno Congress Mesa.

Here is the tradition
of Ollantay:

Under the rule of Inca Pachacutec, the ninth ruler of
Cuzco, was Ollantay curaca Ollantaytambo Generalissimo of the armies.
Unrequited lover of one of the busts or princesses, requested Pachacutec,
and as a reward for important services, which granted him the hand
of the young. Rejected his claim for the proud monarch, whose blood,
according to the laws of the empire could not mix with the family
does not descend directly from Mango Capac, the chief love of Cusco
disappeared one night, stealing his beloved Cusicoyllor