 Do I understand or not understand the metaphysics of love?

Count suppressed his disgust: it was given the hint when I could, and if he said any word was
by gravity, without following the joke.

- There are plenty of love - remained the poet - all sons of the nymphs: Amores terrestrial they
are what we usually know, but there are also one and only love, son Venus Urania, which, as
reported by the fabulist Aesop, and then many others have repeated poets and fabulous, live
almost forever in heaven. The immortal gods can not live without him. The presence of this Love
is the bliss of the gods. However, this Love is so good and pious, that hurt the misery and
baseness of men, calls occasionally licensed to Jupiter to descend to earth and bring us true consolation
and reflecting the light of glory. With difficulty Jupiter granted this license, to him and other
immortals find it extremely distressing lack of love, but when granting the license, that is one
century at most, and soon, Love descends between us, and leaving younger siblings whenever her shadowing,
wounding vulgar souls, uses his arrows little gold cross lofty and divine souls. Of these souls,
and wounded, then rises a stream of pure ideas, feelings and concepts near superhuman perfection,
they are like bright beacons placed at intervals in history, in the dark and rough road that follows the
wandering humanity. Great news, gentlemen, great news! Correspondence not yet been published, But be
you for sure. This has recently come Celestial love between us. As much as it hides out of modesty,
we have come to see him. It is full of grace and truth.

His glory dazzles us, but we are not blind.

Neither this parody of the most beautiful fable of Aesop Count put any comment.

The poet went more excited:

- Love the sky is hurt, as I said, some souls di cartello cousin, but after all while living here,
on earth, it always goes wandering and homeless. Choose the soul nobler, purer and more beautiful,
and makes his home there.

This soul is usually a woman, often married. Imagine, what honor, what distinction for the husband!
In the present case, the coming of Love in our godless and vicious Iron Age, the mansion Love,
its headquarters, as it were, is the soul of a married woman. Will gap and proud her husband?

Count
here and could not contain and conceal his anger.

Repressed, however, the language, because in full gathering seemed ridiculous and disgusting
insults unleashed on against scurrilous Arthur. His eyes only denoted his anger. The poet looked
as if to devour the fire in his eyes.

Rosita, by lightness of character, thoughtlessness, had been carried away from the talk poet and
had laughed at the jokes. Arthur had been very funny, making a droll emphasis their expressions
and accompanying them with appropriate gesticulation. But Rosita came to, he warned how angry was the
Count and, although late, the poet silenced.

When the men left the gathering together and were in the street and not hit Count to restrain
his anger. Lost all respect, began to roll all the wisdom, foresaw no result some, and turning
to Arthur, he said, if quietly, not so much that any of the other
commentators could not hear:

- Know it to your government.

Nor fables of Aesop, or with quotes from Plato, or in any way, however indirect it may be,
consent to forward that, in my presence, even when not I hereby put
on solfa my friendship with Beatriz. If I know you speak another Instead
of it, which allude to it, you make fun of her husband, she will feel
much, but I'll break their necks. 

Count these words pronounced with
such seriousness and energy, which Arthur could not slip taking them
to laugh. It was therefore necessary to answer seriously