 Against
the pessimism and determinism of naturalism own, show us a world Valera in which self-determination
and optimism of triumph. All her heroines have something grave - in the eyes of the society of
his time - to be forgiven. And what shows Valera is, so to speak, what can a woman if you have resolution
and good workmanship. Poverty extreme baseness of birth close the horizon Juanita, daughter of Juana
la Larga, and we prohibit, for example, silk dress, but it is an untamed creature y. .. the
reader going to see her perform for himself in the pages that follow, and should not overtake
the surprises that lie ahead. But James certainly professed religion of art, and this and other
conduct become almost invisible behind the adventures of the characters and the prose is admirable
its sobrehaz and attractiveness.

Is a common opinion - to which, on this occasion, I agree - that Juanita is the best between the
novels he wrote Valera. The multiplicity of characters embossed on the plot, without diminishing
the role of the heroine; the successive transformations of the situation, without interruption restart
and expand the story, the reasonable proportion of good and evil between those who make paper
- inevitable - good and bad, the perfection reached by some of the plates, and tested by the author
in previous productions, are some among the what reasons, and I refer it in the few lines of
this preface.

PAULINE Garagorri

I

A friend of mine, deputy novel, whose name was
not put here because it is the case, was entusiasmadísimo with his
district and particularly the place where he had his greatest strength,
place we designate by the name of Villalegre.

This rich, but small population Andalusia, was flourishing then, because its fertile vineyards,
which had not yet phylloxera destroyed, producing exquisite wines to be sold to Jerez to be
agreed in Jerez.

Villalegre was not the head of the judicial district, or officially the most important population
constituency of our friend, but there were few votes were so subordinate
a big vote, all voted unanimously and, as they say, poured the stew
for the person whom the Great Elector appointed.

And understand that this was unanimously to Villalegre, in all elections, the most extraordinary
dominance.

Grateful to our friend the chief of Villalegre, named Don Andrés Rubio, I gave by clouds and we
cited it as proof and example of that fortune is not blind and that
favor with one who is worth it, but with certain limitations, that
is not out of the circle he lives and shows its worth the lucky person.

Without

doubt, don Andrés Rubio, had he lived in Rome in the early centuries of the Christian era, had
been a Marco Aurelio or Trajan, but as Villalegre and lived in our age, quieted and contented
with being the chief, or rather the end or the emperor Villalegre where he was joint number and
where he bowed to the rule and obeying all happy.

Rep. novel, however, more exalted district to another subject, because without it there showed
benevolent omnipotence of Andres Rubio.