 

No doubt I got the answer, and asked a more strict. Diómela in these terms:

- It would be wrong in eya puestus the pensaris of unu ... Esu and
that!

... But mine will Jacia quite another par.

The Pitu, I put the casu, it is pleitu difirente.

- So Pete ... And she, as repolluda and so guapote, do you share?

-
Esu is what I do not know ... nor can he know what tampocu.

- It
is very possible ... but before you put a blemish on the good maid.

-
A flawless!

... And what was eya?

- No clear painted it, but gave it to understand.

After pondering for a good thing the girl, adding "and that that
..." as he says, "is not gold that glitters."

- What I would say,
if casu, by his father ... or his mother.

- And what are his father
or his mother to cross?

- What do I know?

Stories.

- So stories ... Who is the father?

- Nah, you Echeli a galgu.

-
Anda, dark!

And the mother?

- Now you panicle!

And does he have at home!

- Who, man?

- Nah, you.

- Me?

- Nah,
you mesmu ... What for the ojus démontrer any face, if not see what's
pa delanti of eyus?

- Just say a thousand devils take you: who is
the mother of Tona?

- Pos Facia.

- Facia! - Exclaimed in amazement
-.

But Facia married?

- At vistu - I answered the mozallón with too
much phlegm.

- Who? - He inquired.

- That's the story - he pointed
at the ground he answered back with the forefinger of his right hand,
without looking or slow the pace.

- Well, Tell it to me then - I
said then, sitting astride the peak of a overhanging rock beside the
trail, not so much more comfortable hearing what I recount Chisco,
as resting from the fatigue that was giving me that our continued
up the slope the bitter mountain.

We had won the first third of its height, and were already within the terms of the large green that
is visible from the house "of my major", ie the "Prao-Council which,
since there seemed endless, immense, in the oblique direction the
path we had.

Chisco, when he noticed that I had sat down, stopped, turned toward
me, smiled his way to see me so well accommodated, and finally, back
slowly.

- Tell me why - I said as he stopped next to me - but with
all his hair and signals.

To instill good spirits gave him a drink of my Fraser, who was the
best candy for him, and a cigar of the largest in my bag.

He drank and savored the comforting spirits, licking taste, and began
after a tinderbox, as I gazed at the valley bird's eye view of Tablanca,
with its houses climbing up behind the harvest of my uncle, and perched
alone overhead, as if he had stopped there to encourage them to voice
and some jokes Don Celso, and, finally, leaning back against the ground
and stirrups with sandals on the roughness of the road, told me the
following, which I translate, slightly more than in substance, vulgar
language, with real feeling, because I can not, for lack of memory
and always, play to the letter that picturesque language, which exceeded
local flavor by far in interest, the matter reported.

Facia was, in effect, a helpless orphan when my uncle picked her up at home. Educóse and grew
in it, it became a big girl, because he who inherit, as well as to be honest and discreet and good-looking,
and honestly, and discreetly, and even very gratefully passed, and rightly so, in the village
when it was presented as the rain clouds, a lover, a Tablanca baratijero that shocked not only
by the wonders never seen there, the shop that stood in a fair valley, but by the charm of its
peak by "Majura" in your face and the direction of their size. Like flies came to his gleaming
tenducho the poor fool of the fair, and fell like flies in honey and flattery of their weights,
deceiver leaving the bait down to the last penny of savings for very
different purposes.

For women, especially, was the charlatan an irresistible hook, and
for good girls, in particular, a "one" that reckless.

So good was the indino in that endeavor, which had just moved the tenducho fair to the people
and opened in a makeshift shed next to the church. To believe by his word, he was a drug dealer by necessity,
but luxury. He liked to run the world and see everything and to do as they please, as it was
rich for her house and had plenty of money, ran that way, buying jewelry 'to all cost 'in the
big cities of the earth, to hand them over to the poor men and good girls of the hamlet for
a piece of bread.