 

Confused, lost, and surrendered to the weight of his sorrow he was returning home half dead,
and going to enter, he found it full of sheriffs and clerks who carried the furniture behalf
of its creditors. Paros almost meaningless vnder a banana, and meets the lovely lady that
morning, which was still walking around with her beloved uncle, and could not be have to laugh
at the sight of Memnon with his patch. Night fell, and lay down on a heap Memnon straw, near the
walls of his house Entrol fever, is lethargic with the strength of her and appeared in a dream
a heavenly spirit, And he shone like the sun, and had six beautiful wings but no feet, no
head or tail, and not like any thing. Who are you? Memnon said to him. Your good genius, he replied.
For me again, "said Memnon, my eye, my health, my wealth, my sanity, and once told him that
he had lost everything so that day. Adventures are these, "replied the spirit, that never happen
in the world where we live. ? In what world you live? told him the suffering. My country, 'said
the genius, is far Five hundred million miles from the Sun, and is one star next to Sirius, you
are looking at from here. Ilinden country! Memnon, he said. ? With rogues you have not betraying
the men well, not close friends that they cheat their money and take out an eye, or debtors
who fail, or satraps that you laugh at you Quando justice denied? No, I said to the inhabitants of
the star, none of that: we do not deceive the women, because there are none, do not over- gluttony,
because we do not eat, or there are debtors who fail, because we have no silver or gold; We
can not tear your eyes, because it seems our body to yours, and the satraps commit injustices,
because we are all equal.

Memnon then said to him: Lord illustrious, "without girls without eating, when you pass the
time? In care, he said the genius, the other balloons that are at our expense, and I am here
to console. Alas! Memnon replied,? because you came last night, and You might have hindered me to such
nonsense? Because I was in Asan, your older brother, told him the inhabitant of heavens, the
qual is more unfortunate than you, having your gracious majesty the king of the Indies where you
can admire the honor of being employed, mandadole out both eyes by a slight fault, and holding him
in a dungeon, tied hand and foot. Pardi, Memnon exclaimed that we are thrives on having a good
genius in our family, two brothers if one is blind, and one eyed, one lying on straw, and
another in jail. Your luck is moved, replied the animal star: truth is that you will be one-eyed
life, but as it is not, you will live pretty happy, provided they never make the misguided purpose
of being completely sane. ? With that this is something that is not possible to achieve? Memnon
replied pulling a sob. As it is not possible, "replied the other, be fully intelligent, fully-strong,
fully powerful, or completely happy. We ourselves are very distant to be so, a balloon is to the truth
where all this is, but everything goes by degrees in a hundred billion seeded worlds in space.
In the second there is less pleasure and less wisdom in the first, in the third less than in
the second, and so continues till the last, where all the world is completely crazy. I am
afraid, he said Memnon, that our globe is just the house of lunatics in the universe, you're
saying. Not so much as that, he said the spirit, but he is nearby, and that everything must
take its appointed place. In this case, he said Memnon, very some poets are misguided, and some
philosophers, who say everything is fine. Have reason, 'said the philosopher of this world, if
they see the placement of the entire universe. iha! replied Memnon poor, I do not believe as it may
one eye.

End of Memnon.

       

* * * * *

THE two consoles.

Said one day the great philosopher cytophylic a distraught lady, and
had every reason to be: the Lady, the Queen of England, daughter of
the great Henry quarto, was no less unfortunate than you: the cast
of his kingdom, he was on the verge of dying in the ocean in a shipwreck,
and King witnessed the death of her husband on a scaffold.

Much sorry, 'said the lady, and returned to mourn their own misfortunes.

Remember, he said Cilofilo, Mary Stuart, who was honestly in love with a handsome musician I
had excellent voice of choristers. Her husband killed the musician, and then his good friend
and relative, the Queen Elizabeth, who was called maiden, sent him
to cut his head in a hanging scaffold Mourning, after having been
eighteen years in prison. iCruel success! replied the lady; and give
back to your affliction.

Mentar well have heard, followed the dildo, the lovely Joanna of
Naples, which was seized and hanged. I have a confused idea that,
'said the afflicted