 True that in times of Doña Silvia were both
at mass, by routine, but nothing more. Well after a widower, the few ideas of the Catechism Worse
than kept in his mind as useless papers or notes, shuffles with anyone farrago of Humanity, by
making an unholy mess.

In fact, none of these theologies long time occupied Magin's cheap, always attentive to the
reality of their business down. But the day came, rather, a night such ideas had to take possession
of his mind with some toughness, so right now I shall refer. My man came home one afternoon when
he fell from the month of February, evacuated thousand steps with varying success, running the
steps that would give the next day when his daughter, who opened the door, he said these words:
"Do not worry, Dad, it's nothing ... Valentin has been bad in school.

"

The uneasiness of the monster put to D. Francisco in great shock.

Which is announced could be negligible, and others. However, in the voice of Rufina had a tremor,
a veil, a strange ring that left cold and fail to Torquemada.

"I think it is not anything more - seems continued .-- Miss which gave a faint. The teacher
who was brought ... in her arms. "

Worst still stuck in the hall, unable to say anything or to take a step.

"I went to bed at once, and sent a message to Quevedo to come to escape."

D.

Francisco, out of his stupor as if he had been a whip, ran the fourth The boy, whom he saw in
the bed with her coat both seemed stifled. Had flushed face, sleepy eyes. His stillness was painful
slumber of quiet sleep. The father applied his hand to the brow of innocent monster, who blazed.

-
But that thing of Quevedillo .... So burst .... I do not know what you think .... Look better called
another doctor who knows more.

His daughter tried to calm him, but he refused to consolation. That son was not a son anyone,
and could not sick without altering the order of the universe. Not tested afflicted Food father,
did nothing but walk around the house, waiting for the damn doctor,
and without stop going to his room at the child, hence the dining
room, where he appeared before his eyes, squeezing the heart, waxed
Valentin chalked mathematical problems.

Persisted even painted by the morning, scribbling Torquemada did not understand, but almost I did
mourn as a sad music: the root sign, points above and below, and elsewhere in a network of lines,
forming star antics many peaks in ends.

At last, praise God, came the happy Quevedo, and D. Francisco threw the corresponding chillería,
for it treated him like son. Seen and examined the child, the doctor did not quite good face.
A Torquemada he could choke on a hair, when the little doctor, leaning against the wall and
putting his hands on his shoulders, said: "I do not like this, but have to wait till tomorrow
to see if it springs a rash.

The fever is quite high. Already I told you to be very careful with this phenomenon of the boy. Both
study, both namely brain development crazy! Things to do with Valentine is to put cowbell around
his neck, let go in the field in the middle of a herd, not to bring to Madrid that is well grown.
"

Torquemada hated the field and could not comprehend that he had nothing good. But he purpose
if the child was cured of a pasture to bring him to drink milk to grass and breathe air pure. The
pure air, Bailon said well what were very good thing. Ah! the bloody miasma were to blame
for what was happening. D. felt so angry Francisco, if you take a miasma at that time as part of
the shaft. Sibyl was the night to spend time with his friend, and see where we repeated the rattle of
Humanity, resembling the cleric Torquemada most enigmatic and lateral
than ever, longer arms, her face harder and fearful.

By staying only, the usurer did not lie down.

Since Quevedo Rufina and stayed to watch, he also would watch. Adjacent to the bedroom was the father
of the children, and it's bed Valentine who spent the night very restless, choked, throwing light
on their skin, sparkling eyes and stunned, speech unsafe unthreading ideas, like beads on a rosary
whose thread is broken.

IV

The next day was all shock and bitterness. Quevedo said the disease was inflammation of the
meninges, and that the boy was in danger of death. This is not the father said, but Bailon
for you to be prepared. Torquemada and he was locked up, and the conference was that little stick,
as D. Francisco, upset by pain, he called his friend a liar and fraud.

Restlessness, nervous restlessness, the ravings of stinging unlucky not can describe. Had to go
to several measures of its difficult job, and every moment returned home, panting, tongue hanging
out half span, the fungus was pushed back. Entered, gave out, come out again. He brought the
drugs, the pharmacy and told the whole history ... "A dizzy spell while in class, then fever,
horrible ... What are they doctors? "On the advice of the Quevedo, sent for one of the most
prominent, which described the case of acute meningitis.

The night of the second day Torquemada, dog-tired, was stuffed into one of the chairs of the room,
and there was an average liorita, turning a mischievous idea, hard ayi and with many corners,
that he had gotten into the brain. "I have failed to humanity, and this very so-and charged
me the credits back now .... No: for if God, or who Anyhow, I take my son, I am going to become
more evil, more dog ...! You'll see then which is fine cinnamon. For not missing anything .... Do
not play with me .... But no, what nonsense say! I removed it because I .... That they say
I have not done anybody any good, is a lie. Let me try it ... it is not enough to say. How about
whom so many have bailed? ... And that it "? For if humanity to have been with tales of me,
that if trouble, that if not bind ... I will try .... Hey, now I'm charging: if I have not
done any good, now I will, now, because for some it is said that it is never to late. Let's see:
what if I put now to pray, what would they say up there? Bailon seems to me that is wrong and
humanity should not be God, but the Virgin .... Of course, female, lady .... No, no, no ...
do not we look at the materialism of the word. Humanity is God, the Virgin and all saints together
.... Tente, man, Stand, you crazy .... Only clean sack having no good works, everything is like
saying, trash ... Oh God, what a shame, what shame ...! If I put good to my son, I do not know
what things do, but what things so magnificent and so ...! But who is the scoundrel who says
I have not targeted any good works?

Is that I want to lose, I want to take my son, who was born to teach all let the wise and very
small. And they envy me because I'm his father, because of these bones and this blood came aquela
and glory of the world .... Envy, but envy is what this slut Humanity! I mean, mankind, because
God is ... men, fellows, we who We are all very crooks, so what happens to us happens to us ....
We are well deserved ... well is we deserved. "

Then remembered the next day was Sunday and there was widespread receipts for collect the rents
of his house. After this operation to devote half an hour, rested several times, stretching
out in the living room couch. In the morning, between nine and ten, was to dominguera collections.
With your bad eating and sleeping and the most bitter grief that tore the soul, was the man
himself to an olive color. His gait was unsteady, and looks uncertain wandering, lost, sweeping
the ground as soon as shooting at heights. When the cobbler, who in his shop had dirty portal,
enter the home and saw noticed his face distorted and one walk drunk, shrieked as he dropped the
riveting hammer the tacks. The presence of Torquemada in the courtyard, which all Sunday was
occurring objectionable appearance that day was real panic, and while Some women ran to take
refuge in their respective chambers, and others, who must have bad payers, and who saw the face
that brought the beast, they went to the street. The collection for the quarter began with low,
and paid without question the mason and the two cigarette cases,
forward they are destroyed before the hated stamp of Don Francisco.

Something unusual and abnormal noticed it, then took the money, mechanically and without consideration
to trifle rusty, as other times, as if he had thought a hundred leagues of the event was important
doing, not you heard those rumblings of dog biter, and inspected the rooms looking for the broken
tile or piece of plaster fallen, to take the time to the tenant.

By the fourth of Rumaldo, laundress, widow, with her sick mother in a cot and three minor children
who were in the yard teaching the meat through the holes in clothing, Torquemada ordinance
dropped the grunt, and poor women, distraught and trembling voice, which if I had to confess
to the crime a black judge, dropped the phrase rules: 'D. Francisco,
is not currently possible.

Another day I will carry. "I can not give an idea of ??the wonder of that woman and the two
neighbors who were present, when they saw the spat does not mean
that mouth no curse or heresy, when they heard him say with tearful
voice dull and the world: "No, daughter, if you do not say anything
... if you do not rush ... if not I have gone through reñirte head
... What we have to do, if you can not ...!»

- D. Francisco, is that
...-- murmured the other, thinking the beast was expressed with sarcasm
and that after the sarcasm would bite.

- No, my child, if I joke
... How have things to say?

To you is that no one the PASA that I am a man, as they say, tyrant ... Where do you find that
there is in pity me, or ... or charity? Instead of thanking me what I do for you, I calumniáis
... No, no: let us understand. You, Rumaldo, be quiet: I know you have needs that Times are bad
... When times are bad, girls, what we do but to help one to another?

Continued, and the principal gave a bad tenant paying, but much heart
to face the beast, and so I saw him coming, judging by the turn coming
more surly than ever, went to meet his harshness with these arrogant
expressions:

"Nah, you Listen, I do not come with stopping them.

You know that there is not. That is without work. Want you go on a road? Do not see the house
without furniture such as a hospital prestao? Where do you want procure it? ... Damn your
soul ...

- Who says to you, so very large, foul-mouthed and Boconó, I come to suffocate? A Tarascan see
if any of them claiming that I have no humanity.

Dare to tell me ....»

Eriarboló the stick, the symbol of his authority and his temper, and in the huddle that had formed
only see open mouths and eyes with astonishment.

"For to thee and to all say that I do not give a damn that I Repay today. Go! How I have to
say that to understand? ... With that being your husband out of work I was going to put the
noose around his neck? ... I know I'll pay when you can, right? Because what intention to pay,
you have it. Well then, what both sulk? ... Foolish, evil heads! (Efforts to produce a smile),
you believing me to me harder than rocks, and I dejándooslo believe, because it suited me, because
it suited me, of course, because God commands do not let our humanity ... fascist! Well, who are
all a very big combs .... Abur, you, do not suffocate. And do not think I do this to throw me
blessings. But recorded you do not choke, and so you see how good
I am ....»

He stopped and thought for a moment, putting his hand into his pocket and looking down.

"Nothing, nothing .... Stay with God. "

And to another. Claimed in the following three doors without any difficulty. 'D. Francis I you
put new stone on the Ornilla, here you can not cook ....»

In other circumstances, this claim would have been the beginning of a chillería tremendous
wit: "Put the Traspontina on the burner, scoundrel, and gun fire up Look at the guy manguitillas
.»--«, so poison him back rooms. "But that day everything was peace and harmony and gave Torquemada
As he demanded.

"Ay, D. Francisco! - Told another at 11, - has the syringes fifty real. So that they can gather,
we have not eaten more than two quarters of gallinejas and two liver with dry bread .... But not
to see the character of that face and not hear him, I'd stay with Paris tips.

- Look, that's an insult, an injustice, because if I put down other times not been for the
materialism of money, but because I like to see accomplished people ... to do not say .... There
should be dignity in everyone.

A faith that you have a good idea to me! ... Was I to consent that your children, these sheep
of God, they had hungry? ... Let, let the money .... Or rather, not to take it to snub: twenty-five
partámoslo and stay real .... And thou shalt give me another day .... Bribonazas, when you ought
to admit that I am to you as a father, I tachais of inhuman and whatnot!

No, I assure you that I respect them all humanity, which I believe,
I believe that, now and always will all the good that can and a little
more .... Hala!

"

Astonishment, confusion. Behind him came the gossipy group, gossiping like this: "In that convicted
him desavío has spent .... D. Francisco is not good for the coffee. See what face gallows has
brought. D. Francisco with humanity! Behold why this going out every night that star in the
sky with a tail. Is that the world is going to end. "

At number 16:

"But the daughter of my soul, so hussy, did you have to your bad girl and I had not said anything?
Why, what am I in the world? Frankly, that's an insult that you do not forgive, do not forgive.
You are an indecent and proof that you do not have a shred of sense,
you bet he'll never guess I'm going to do?

How much will not you guess? ... Then I will give you to put a pot .... Ea! Take it and say now
that I have no humanity. But you are so ungrateful, Sucks I shall put as dominoes, and may
even send me away a curse. Abur. "

In the quarter Casiana Sena, a neighbor ventured to say, "D. Francisco, us do not you give us ....
You will pass something. What the hell is in that head or in his heart of stone and mortar? "

He
left the troubled home into a chair, and removing the fungus is passed his hand over the yellow
bald forehead and greasy, saying only between sighs: "It is not tight, daggers, is not masonry!
"

Observing that his eyes were moist, and, looking down, and supported with both hands on the pole,
it carried all the weight on the body, rocking, urged him to she vented, but he should not
believe them worthy of being confident of their huge, heartbreaking penalty. Taking the money,
said a hollow voice: "If you did, Casiana, the same would be.

I repeat that I do not drown the poor ... as I too am poor .... Who say (getting with anxiety
and anger) that I am inhuman, lying more than the Gazette.

I'm human, I feel sorry the unfortunate, I help as I can, because
it sends us humanity, and good know all that and miss it to the Site,
you will pay sooner or later, and if you are good you shall have your
reward.

I swear by this image of the Virgin of Sorrows with Son died in the arms (pointing to a picture),
I swear that if I have similar charitable and well, not this mean that it is not, daggers! and if necessary
testing, testing be given. Come on, who did not believe ... as all get out with two hundred
thousand pairs of demons than me to be good enough for me .... Do not need anyone to give me
hype. Lousy for anything I want your gratitude .... I pass by the nose your blessings. "

That said stampede left. All looked at him down the stairs, and the patio below, and the portal
outside, making such gestures appeared to be the devil himself crossing.

V

He ran to his house, and against his habit (he was a man who commonly preferred despernarse
to spend a penny), took a car to get more soon. Gave heart to tell her that I would find good news,
the sick relief, Rufina smiling face when you open the door and mad impatience, it seemed
that the coach did not move, the horse was limping and that driver not quite shake the poor
animal sticks .... "Gee up, man. Jaco Damn! Wood it - shouted .-- It seems I have a great
hurry. "

Finally arrived, and panting up the stairs of his home, his hopes for the reasoned way: "Do
not go now saying it is for my sins, because all there ..." What a disappointment to see the
face of Rufina so sad, and to hear that the same thing, Dad, that rang in his ears like funeral
bell! He went up on tiptoe to the patient and examined. As the poor child he were at the time
dozing, Don Francisco could be observed with relative calm, because when delirious and wanted to throw
the bed, stirring around the frightened eyes, the father value was so painful to witness the
show and ran from the room trembling and terrified. He was a man who lacked the courage to
face penalties of this magnitude, no doubt because of moral deficiency, he was frightened,
shocked, and as responsible for so much misery and such pain. Esmeradísima insurance assistance
Rufina, no failure was the grieving father's bedside Valentine: the contrary, it was nuisance,
since if you attend, of fixed, in her confusion, mistaken medicines, giving drink to accelerate
its death. What I did was watch without break, often approaches the door of the bedroom and see
what was happening, the child's voice heard raving or complaining, but if the cries were very
plaintive and raving very strong, which was Torquemada was an instinctive desire to take to run and
hide their pain in the last corner of the world. That evening he was accompanied Bailon awhile,
the butcher down the tailor of principal and top photographer, striving all in comfort with
the phrases of regulation, but not to sustain hitting Torquemada Talk about a sad topic thanked
them with inattentive dryness. Everything is Bellows was returning sigh, walking stride, drinking
mouthfuls of water and give some punch ea wall. Tremendo that case! Many hopes vanished! ...
That flower in the world mowed and wilted! This was to go crazy. More natural would be the
universal derangement, the death of the prodigious child who had come to earth to illuminate
the beacon of his talent ... Nice things to God, Humanity, or whoever may be the very and
what he invented the world and put us in it! Because if you were to take to Valentine, why What
brought him here, giving it to him, good Torquemada, the privilege of breeding size prodigy? Nice
business to Providence, Humanity, or the Joint drawn, as I said Bailon! Taking one child,
a light of science, and let all the fools here! Did this common sense? "There was no reason
to rebel against the top, putting as clothing Easter and send them to ride? ... If Valentin was
dying, what the world was in darkness, ignorance. And for the father, who beat! Because let
us imagine all that would be D. Francisco when son, man, began to appear, to confound all the
wise men, to turn turtle science all! ... Torquemada would be in such a case the second person
of Humanity: and only for the glory of having given birth to the great mathematician, would be
a thing of standing on a throne. What a Valentine's engineer would if I lived! As he would do
about railways that would go from here to Beijing in five minutes, and balloons to sail through the
air, and ships debajito walk through water, and other things never seen or even dreamed. And
the planet was going to miss these bargains for a stupid statement of those who give and take life!
... Nothing, nothing, pure jealousy, envy. Up on the invisible recesses of the high heavens,
annoy someone had proposed to Torquemada. But ... but .... What if it was not envy, but punishment?
If I was willing to annihilate the mean and cruel, tyrannical landlord, the lender without a
womb?

Ah! when this idea came in turn, felt impulses Torquemada to run to the nearest wall and crashing
it. Reacted and soon became about himself. No, could not be punished because he was not bad,
and if it was, and would be amended. Was enviable dislike and ill will that had, as sovereign
as the author of eminence. Wanted truncated seize their future and the joy and immense fortune
of his later years .... Because his son, if he lived, was to earn lots of money, but a lot, and
hence the celestial intrigue. But it (I honestly thought) to give up profits, pecuniary son so let
him glory, glory! for business, he was satisfied with his own own .... The final height of his
exalted mind was to give to all the materialism of science of the child, provided they let him
glory.

When he was alone with him, Bailon said he had needed philosophy, and as Torquemada not understand
well the meaning and application of that word, the sibyl explane
your idea this way: "It resign, considering our smallness before these
major developments of the matter ... then, or vital substance.

We are atoms, Don Francisco, nothing more than Fools atoms. Respect the rules of the great All,
to which we belong, and to come penalties. That's what philosophy, or if you will, the religion to
breast to adversity. For if it were not so, we could not live. "Everything he accepted less
resigned Torquemada. No his soul was the source of such comfort could
go, and do not even understand. As the other, after having eaten well,
insist on those ideas, to D. Francis I want to give it spent a couple
of blows, destroying at one point the strongest profile to draw Michelangelo.
But looked upon him with terrifying eyes, and the other scared and
put a in their theologies. 

In early evening, Quevedo and the other
doctor spoke to Torquemada in terms disheartening. Had little or no
hope, but did not dare to say at all that they had lost and left open
the door to the repair of nature and at the mercy of God. It was horrible
night. Poor Valentine invisible fire burned