 

Ferragut saw the blue circle of the lenses how this tube rose and rose, thickening. He was
not a stick, was a tower, and below this tower rising from the sea was a base steel foam dripping waterfalls,
a ridge gray whale, which gradually took the form of a sailing vessel long and sharp.

A flag floated soon on the submarine. Ulysses knew.

- We are attacking cannon! - Shouted Toni -.

It is useless to sail in zigzags. What distance matters is winning, go straight.

The second, skilled helmsman obeyed the captain. Shook the whole town to a speed pulse extraordinary.
The bow cut the water with a growing rumor. The submersible enemy, increase its volume with the
rise, it seemed, however, back in the skyline. Two tufts of foam began to pile up on both sides
of its bow.

He ran with all the momentum surface of his departure, but the Mare
Nostrum also sailed with the momentum forced their machines to great
pressure, and the distance between both vessels was dilated.

- Tiran!
- Ferragut said the twins in her eyes.

A column of water rose near the bow.

This was all that Caragol could see clearly, and burst into applause with a childlike joy. Then shook
up his straw hat. "Viva Holy Christ of Grao !...»

Other shells were falling around the Mare Nostrum, with its huge fountains splashing foam. Suddenly
shook from stem to stern, shook his irons with a vibration burst.

-
It's nothing! - Shouted the captain throwing half out of the bridge
to better see the town of his ship -.

A cannon on the stern. Strong, Toni! ...

The second one, clinging to the wheel, turned his head from time to
time to determine the distance separating them from the submarine.

Every time I saw a water column up to pulse of a projectile, he repeated
the same advice:

- Lie, Ulises!

... They shoot at the bridge!

It was a reminder of his distant youth smuggler, when he slept on deck driving his boat the rudder
and sail under the watchful shot the guard.

Feared for the life of his captain, while he was still standing, he offered up shots of enemies.

Ferragut
went from one side to another, cursing his lack of means to respond
to aggression. "It will happen again! ... No more giving amused hunting!
