 Pepe felt
an inexplicable anxiety: every two minutes to go was resolution, but his feet did not move
... From time to time the removal of the chairs produced a choppy noise dry, after which the only
sound was low and muffled noise, similar to that produced by snakes crawling among the litter
dry. Everyone prayed ... The smoke from the candles and the smell acre human and people crowded
into confined space, vitiated the atmosphere. Front, and right of the altar, there was another
laptop that supported a white-robed Virgin mantle blue, appearing out of a cave made, and rock
from birth, with cork and cardboard. This was the brightest spot of the temple. Half a dozen candles,
tall and thin, wick very thin, because its duration is greater, lit the holy image, which was
baby-faced and chalky, except in the cheeks, which had strong rosettes carmine.

The hands in which the artist had taken pains were too small, and over falling body folds of her
tunic, cut in straight folds, but hard, poorly imitated the pagan sculptures. Pepe looked alternately
at peace and the Virgin. What a difference! The true divinity was. In her eyes shone life missing
in image. How beautiful was the work of God! How laughable the carved by the man!

Paz heard Mass with devotion, turning the leaves of the prayer book quietly, sometimes left on her
lap, but without displays of religious anointing, and his face not be sad to exaggerated remorse,
nor did the slow blinking eyes that is what the rattle to breathing.

The blast happened in a church, the priest turned to the sacristy, pausing genuflections before
the altars, and when Peter wanted to leave he found the door blocked by a group of people that
he had advanced, forcing him to stop. They both also went out. The old woman saw him, was struggling
because the crushed, without worrying about anything else, but Peace was surprised at the time
of lifting the portiere greasy door. He, as set foot on the street, he left something along
the lines of the sidewalk, they went away, and she looked right and left, until, at the sight encounter
with Pepe, he greeted disturbed at the moment of getting into the car. Then Pepe thought he noticed
that the window stood back, and then, like last time, saw Paz put head to re-tell bye-bye.

The boy went home like crazy.

By going to pull the bell rope, he had stop a moment and make so that their parents did not
know in the face something extraordinary was happening. Leocadia told his entrance:

- Boy, what a whim! Have you put the best clothes you have to leave so early?

VII

In the corridors of the Senate is whispered for the hundredth time
that Don Luis Maria de Agreda tertiary in the discussion of a bill.

The poor guy he wished with all his soul, but did not dare.

All the value is wasted at home, some times walking around the office like a caged animal, and
others supported her elbows on the back of a chair, his imagination became tribune. Then he was
well came to his lips round periods, irrefutable arguments, phrases energetic questions that have no
answers, all sorts of starts oratorios, to that, after all those ideas and not knowing the
words to link they must shut up! Such was the provision of his mind when one evening he entered the
library of the Senate, fleeing from a newscast that wanted to know if it was true that he intended
to speak.

Pepe, at his entrance, he went straight to him, affecting display helpful, but in fact decided
to look purposeful way to frequent his house. The pretext because he had expected, and it was not
bad.

- But man - affectionately told Don Luis - are you famous!

While you met me, me You managed the library and Abur!

You do not have to look back, and he who is at fault me.
- Do not talk about that, Mr. de Agreda, and I'll have the pleasure
of going to greet and receive orders.

Then he began to implement
a plan a few days ago it had happened, saying:

- "So are you going
to consume a turn because of the draft Development? You Want to I
find history