 The lunch had cost us five francs and thirteen salaries,
real eleven soon to everyone, even a bottle of wine.

When we gave the card will go to the comptroller, whose office is to give them blank, and receive
stamped incarnate barely penetrated through the people coming, and is written here in the glory of
Duval, master of the establishment, the food was the least repugnant to our liking, being the
least repugnant to Spanish cuisine. This finding encouraged us with the assurance that in Paris
we are not going to starve for lack of table, and solved solemnize going to a cafe singer, from
six until eight at night, and theater the Grand Opera, at eight-thirty
to twelve.

We had news of three cafes singers: the music of France, towards the Boulevard Good News, the
Moka, in the Rue de la Luna, and Concert, Rue Montmartre.

The most important is the music of France, except for three that are open in Champs Elysees,
in the summer, and where we could not go, having planned to attend the Opera. We chose the music
of France.

Thus providing the plan of the day, we went to tour the Royal Palace,
where we into the gardens that decorate the sides of the Tuileries,
on the Seine, in order to avoid the heat.

There we sat, I did not know that I sat in chairs imperial because I later learned that all
those seats belonged to the palace and were free. Strange in Paris, where the man pays to
the light that God gives the worm bucket!

Almost touching my wife's chair, sat an old soldier, a great size
with very white hair and one of the most venerable beard I have ever
seen.

We heard talk, and led us in the act the word, with that air of affectionate playfulness with
which we treat to an individual of our family. He spoke in Castilian, in a violent way, but that
left to understand.

The old man spoke to us is a veteran of the First Empire, made in
Spain, all eight year war with the rank of captain.

He is eighty-three years. His wife and daughter are in the Department of Lion, his daughter is
the director post in a match head, and comes to Paris to seek employment
to another child who has, to his Hippolytus, before die, time to create
close.

All this tells us less than five minutes, and speaks with the same expansion and the same elation
that if we were, my wife's head post, and I was his Hippolytus.

Stephen Lesperut, so called, touches the inner lucidity, in which
man takes habit of loving the thought of death, as if it were your
last mystery destination orders decipher where the man offers to our
imagination in a similar way to the idea of ??silence, spirit, history,
immortality, almost, that man is the song of the time, placed between
the world and God, as a statue is placed between the genius of a craftsman
and the eye of the beholder.

Lesperut good, loving and honest Lesperut, open your eyes with effort, seeks to force his pupil,
smile expansively, and sees us and hears us with a joy that keeps us happy.

Which effusion recite the letters he had received a Isabel, who retained loving memories! With
what cordiality he spoke also of Miss Gertrude, a lawyer loves Salamanca! The man seemed to
live in that moment with a double life.

In Lesperut found a compatriot, a true friend, a father.

He loves us and loves memories of their youth, their prowess, their glories. He loves as he
loves the Spanish memory of its first emperor.

When speaking of these events, talks and cries.

Was approaching lunchtime, and had the sense to leave their company,
but not promise lunch together the next day in St James restaurant,
Rue de Rivoli.

Not ten minutes had elapsed, when we were in the house where we had to eat the franc and a half each
place setting. Cheapness so stunned us.

Climb, and the lady we improvised a table setting aside, in a room
that was to the left, adjacent to the designated smoking room.

The two lounges served as a dining room, were filled with parishioners.

This circumstance further confirmed the idea of ??the cheapness.

This lady certainly served us half a bottle of wine to each, for bread
pasta and soup.

Then we asked what we wanted meat.

We ask mutton chops, to have the stomach.

Chops came immediately, did not seem bad, and My wife gave a look
of intent towards me as if to say: my friend, this is another thing
that Paris is not that Paris.

We ate pork chops, and we were ready for the other two meat dishes.
But sinners us!

We had served a soup: and the other two that offered the warning?

The lady came to know what vegetables we wanted.

What about the other two meat dishes?

Will they stay where they were the two soups? Double Wine Jewish dish without sauce, and asked what
desserts were to our liking.

But what about the vegetables that were missing?

My wife could not contain himself any longer.

- What is this? he said. Where are the three soups, three plates of
meat and three vegetables?

I shrugged my shoulders and waited.

The lady came with two almost green plums, and two feathers. The feathers are equivalent to the sticks
we used in Spain but have a double job.

Provide a dish of feathers, means lego what it meant when we looked at the bag open alms.

Those feathers were a sentence.

Resolutely and decisively, the food was over. There was more.

To our way of seeing things, we had swiped two soups, two meat dishes, two vegetables and two
desserts, I mean two-thirds of food: over two hundred percent!

My wife wanted at any cost to request any explanation to the fact,
making question Spanish power, but I looked at the matter otherwise.

The explanations they give me, I said to myself, I would not be worth a plate waste time, will
spend saliva, indigestion me how little I ate, and I have been merit
to me have as Kafir or by Moor, especially when walking around here
Mr. Dumas.

Nothing: no recourse but to pay, keep in mind this house and down
the stairs.

I called the lady I gave a ten francs, brought me back, I left some salaries (My wife made a
terrible gesture) and left the room.

Going down the first stairs, I could not say surprised at my companion:

- So you come?

I was so troubled and so proud, so Spanish pride, which had left his
hat on a high perch.

A spacious seven climbed the stairs of the French café music, among colorful vases flowers
and large mirrors that we portray to one side.

The crowd began then, and we had chance to settle in front of the
small theater that is at the bottom, near the orchestra, which included
a very elegant and black glossy.

Likely that black will win more than other musicians, as is more dramatic
effect.

A young man who has come alone, she comes across to the orchestra
and two words with the director.

After walking eagerly eyes the audience, as if he enjoyed to receive all looks.

She is a lady of the theater, an actress, an artist.

The company consists of three ladies and three suitors.

The ladies are: soprano, light character and comic character.

Galanes: tenor, baritone, bufo.

The orchestra prelude and competition is encouraged.

A garçon of black and white tie tuxedo comes to our table. My wife asked for tea, and I Wooden glass
of biscuits.

The orchestra breaks, opens the back door of the theater, and it appears the girl who saw it coming
one, by the tenor, which brings hand in hand with greater refinement.

The beginning was very unfortunate for us.

Is not that the girl who came here alone to the presence of all the world? For if there came alone,
He would go alone to the end of the earth, why this coquetry that
accompanies the tenor to an audience that is convinced he has no need
of company?

The public know that this lady is not lost on the way, why contradict
that belief that of the public, when he has to reason?

No, sir, it is said, when that young man came into the cafe, there was no lady of the theater.
Now is taxed culture and this tribute to the woman, the actress and the public.

I do not think so. I think art gives beauty, not moral.

I think the moral was born with the opinion of women, and it is unfair to sacrifice the woman
to the artist, when the woman is the great nature artist.

If the woman could go alone in the coffee, the songstress can go alone to the theater, because
both are social facts which also fall under the jurisdiction of the views.

More clearly, I see that refinement a charming, ridiculous, and I think the ridiculous and coquetry
is not a homage to the public, nor to the actress or the woman.

The retired tenor exaggerated bowing, and she was leaning on the scene the public network as the background
to track down something.

She was not mistaken, the audience applauded.

Then he sang a voice in the national air quite, quite happy and intelligence, but pouting destroying
us the effect of singing.

The prima donna terminate your paper, bows respectfully to the audience, the audience applauds
again will re-open the back door, and it appears the wording, which
took as brought.

After half an orchestral interlude, overlooking the tenor. That wording is a very tall man slim, motionless,
with a big mustache as motionless as his legs.

She sang with full and powerful voice, but there was the sound rather
than voice.

Follow the lady under the light character, qualification that comes from mold, attended continuous
movement of their feet.

She is a woman of twenty-eight to thirty years, with low, rather thick, which is called chubby
and can not sit still for a moment, as the sparrow jumping constantly When you look for bait at
his peak.

This woman provides the exact idea of ??what is called in an air Andalucía snub.

She sang a tune, with its accompaniment of momos and jumps, greeted the audience, ie coffee, with
great effusion and some wit ... nothing more.

Behold now the gallant of light character.

This would not have said to see him leave, because I thought it had reversed the order of the
function.

I thought this man was the comic character, the buff, the clown. What gestures! What screams!
What contortions!

But the back door is opens, as a bullet leaves the barrel. What is that thing sticking out?
What is that lump that runs out, shouting, with his hat pulled down over his ears, and a fraction whose
narrow ends are banging on the heels of that package?

Is the comedian.

The actor sings, barks, howl, run, jump, jumps, stretches, shrinks,
squats, four feet .... In short, the man who judge things leave carried
away by first impressions, should not come to the cabarets, but after
having studied all the relations of this society very original.

If you see them before judge wrong.

All I can say is that I have witnessed these scenes stomach pain. Tan true, so philosophical
and so expressive is the Spanish word stomach! Yes, hear it France this educated and powerful
France! I stomach.

- No, sir, I say the French.

There are many facts that are not so much a matter of logic, as usual, or country. Non- lost in the
appreciation of the social manifestations of this town, it is essential know how these people
live.

After a day of care and work, the French man eats and comes to coffee, as one who attends to
a break. Hableis not now anything serious, nothing serious, nothing moral. Do not talk of anything
that might worry and alter the digestion. For that is ten or twelve hours a day.

This is said, but I find all this a reason to convince me. Since then I think, and one deep
in my opinion, an opinion that I found the great axiom of life: I think, he said, I see no
issues or usual country against the eternal questions of logic: of course I think the logic
is the universal nation, the only practice needed.

If on earth there were a people who had the power to disrupt their practices substantial ideas
and customs of the good, of truth, of justice, that country would a prank, an infamy, an apostasy.
No, Mr. French, the French is in the globe, is within humanity, is
within the providential purpose, like a pulsation in my temples has
its cause in my brain, as an idea of ??my soul is in my opinion.

No, no countries to counter the great moral decalogue a reason unanimous written on the laws of the
universe. If any of you believe that your country has that privilege disruptive, understand that this
privilege was a heresy.

You guys are going to coffee in order to rejoice.

It is only fair, especially after many hours of application and virtue. But how do you recreais?
Hearing "meow? "Seeing that a man becomes a cat, so that your digestion is not troubled? For
what digestion is yours, which is good considering only one like yours is broken? Do you think
by chance that it is degrading for a man to wolf trades since the man howls? Do not you hear
the howling? Is that you recreate? Does that help your digestion, gentlemen French?

- So we enjoy them!

- Ah! If you have no more reason than that, I'll shut up.

A man ponia a hot iron rods, caught them with the necessary caution,
approaching an unexpectedly to his servants, and burned their legs,
arms or the neck.

The servants jumped, shouted, gestured, and the man was too distracted with those gestures,
with those jumps, with those cries.

- So break me I could answer them man.

I do not dispute the right to have fun, but the right to have fun from what should be to decency,
morality, man, because there was not, nor is, nor will there ever
be right to act against man, against morality, against decency, in
the same way that there was not, nor is there, can be no light in
space to shed the darkness in our ward.

To rejoice, yes, to rejoice at the expense of a fellow that makes your cat, dog, rooster, the hen, the
wolf, to the crocodile, if would fit: no, a thousand times no. That's not recreation, because
is not art, because it is not humanity, because there is no decency.

-
If you lived here some time, he answers: If you lose the foreign taste
here you presented as nasty habits of this society, would eventually
go to these shows and as we recreate.

Nor am I convinced by this evidence. On one occasion suffered sleepless nights, to be ten point
and seven days without sleep for a moment. The doctor advised me to opium, I refused, and I remember
The doctor told me: if you get used to using this drug, it would use after as you can now use
the dates, for example.

I can get used to the singing cafés, as I can get used to opium, poison,
to the solution.

How?

Relaxing my physical abilities and moral destroying my organization's natural law, dogma of
my being.

If there is reason to say that I get used to a degradation, and that he would enjoy in it, there
is also reason for the robber says to me, come with us, discarding
scruples Fear not.

After you get used to, wandering life you will enjoy the dangers of a feat, our cave will seem
as beautiful as a palace, I believe a hero, as us what we believe.

If reasoning goes this way, there is no standard in the world.

Still considered only as recreation, as a means of digestion, my stomach up bad humor, and is a witness
who deposes inexorably against such a spectacle.

But I am not French, would make any sacrifice to make this exchange
of people do not digest happily, these people could not identify joys
to witness a man Crouch, gets on all fours and bark like a dog.

Contradiction,
inconceivable! I understand that this degradation is not repugnant,
when the person degraded was an Englishman, a kaffir, an Indian, but
how can I not get used when a child of that nationality as jealous
of its reputation?

Clown say these coffees singers, which the executioner.
To persuade the inconvenience social practices that exist such, I
just know that a man makes a profession infamous and burlesque, satire.

On
behalf of the human conscience and the genius of our country, I beg
to Spain to import moment comes the custom of the café cantante, nothing
more natural than to recreate and hearing CIVILICE sing in a cafe,
who can not go to the theater: it has a great moral influence, because
raising the sense of the working class, and gives decorum, because
the estimate given itself, and separates it from vicious habits, which
before was only the satisfaction of certain pleasures, pleasures that
are the inevitable rewards of many hours of fatigue: bring in worth
a break right moment and moralizing, but by no means the clown, in
any way satire.

If the one behind the other is coming, keep them
both there. For my part, to waive the legacy of a false and wretched
civilization, a civilization that deserves the name, as it deserves
the rating of the bandit hero.

Come the song, comes the beautiful
art and morality come from a culture powerful instruction; the culture
of feeling, that does not come infamy. Is that there is painful, but
more painful would stay there and come here.

Would feel a keen regret,
if you ever saw in my country played this degrading practice.

What!
"You judge your country is perhaps more moderated than France?

No,
do not think so. I think the Spanish are more likely today to crime
than the French, I think that in Spain many more crimes are committed,
I think the advantage in favor of this town is very noticeable, but
I think, however, that in Spain there are more moral sense, more germ
awareness, more virility and more strength in our actions. I think
that would be under servile clown artifice and grotesque, a humor
that would not make best friends with the respect we owe our own dignity.
This is the word, to my way of thinking. I think the Spanish are more
loving of our dignity.

Our land is cultivated worse, yes, I agree
with France in this respect, but poorly cultivated and all, I think
if you dig is more juice.

What explains this phenomenon?

This is
not the place of explanation. 

We pay a franc for tea, another ex
in the small glass of Madeira wine, and another biscuits, double what
those items were worth. I would have gladly, to not been for the man
barked. This bitter memory I heart life.

At eight o'clock we were
on the street Lepelletier, at the Theatre de la Grande Opera.

The
place where tickets are sold is full, have not yet opened the office,
not no choice but to go to accounting, however, that each seat will
cost a franc or two above the ordinary rate.

This is prepared with
intention. General's office opened a half hour before start show,
and this time hard enough to sell tickets localities cheap. This applies
to almost all areas of preference must be sought in accounting, paying
a surcharge of four, eight and ten real per seat, which mounts to
a very respectable sum in the course of a season.

A young Savoyard
led us to accounting, and we provide two main box seats, that were
matched only by eleven pesetas each.

We enter the theater, whose
porch is not without some aspect of regal austerity. A spacious and
well lit staircase leads to first floor. The lounge, but provisional
and somewhat narrow, offering breathtaking views. Length is the full
width the theater, appearing long triple for the game of mirrors in
the extremities is lit profusely decorated with simplicity and taste.

The
sudden presence of this large room very well impressed.

The aisles
are wide, there is so much light as if it were in the middle of the
day, and all contours Outside of the scene are a bright interior.
The impression is void in this regard, and decays much. The view inside
the Theatre de la Grande Opera, is far from complete the illusion
that the alien be outdone when climbing the stairs, through corridors,
and to extend a friendly almost to look over the bright lounge.

The
high elevation of the theater tells a solemn, but grim, pathetic.
It seems Theatre of tragedy more singing and dancing.

The courtyards
of our theaters, so noisy, so varied, so beautiful, do not take this
remarkable building a place like it. Instead of chairs, stools are
narrow and thick. The ladies have no input there, so that is not enough
to see but a group uniform, quiet, sad. It seems that that is occupied
by one man, a man that overcrowding in the same way everywhere.

The
stages are short and deep, which makes the competition can not be
displayed fully, communicating to all the grace of the variety and
greatness of the crowd. The only thing produce a truly dramatic effect,
is the amphitheater, encircled with graceful gold bars, with luxurious
seats available to the gaze of the spectators