 Consciousness is not just a torch. The same crimes can be executed in darkness than
light. If I thought like you there is a God conscious creator of all beings, we send a "kissing
hand" praising him for having been a child so kind and lovely as my wife and thanking her for
having reserved for me particular application. Unfortunately I can not represent that God
received in his bathrobe and slippers my greeting cards. I rather think she and I are victims of logic.
Life seeks immediate pain ... You do the result. My wife was born with nails to tear. I was born
with a soft heart on purpose to be torn. It would be a contradiction she does not scratch and
I was not scratched.

- And yet you've loved this woman with all her heart!

- Ah, yes - the gentleman said, closing his eyes and passing his hand across his forehead naked
.-- The I loved you ... For a moment I was comparable to the immortals of Olympus. Happiness sang within
my soul the most beautiful song ever accompanied her divine games. The sun rose and lie just
to sear my illusions. The sea was mumbling there only for gold mirror images that crossed my mind
... No man was hunted by the species with more caution, more exquisite attention ... All the ties
that Nature tends for his mysterious plan can be avoided, until the same will to live can overcome,
I have overcome, because they desire to desire death. But this desire to perpetuate manifested in
all species, the sovereign power that pushes an individual into another of different sex,
believe me, Father, that is second to none ... What arm so shapely! What alabaster shoulders!
What so fascinating way off the gloves and shake your finger pinkie, which was very pretty!

- I know love, but I know that there are two kinds: one which is intended only sensual enjoyment
that we equate to gross, and a pure love of two souls that are completed, Two hearts coming together
to enjoy and suffer at the same time, to form one to death. This is the love that ennobles us,
the only one worthy of human beings and worthy of the name.

- Indeed, all poets believe that corny and all girls opiladas ... But you are a formal person
and can not think such nonsense. All love, tender and sublime , has its roots in the natural
instincts of the sexes: it is that individual flair. Have you ever seen a heart joining eighteen eighty
years with another to form one?