 Answer, Don Ramon, and say yes or no.

- Look, Juanita - answered the questioned - I say no, I do not want
to be complicit Your crazy and because a paper signed by you, you
are a minor, not worth a Pitoche.

- The note, although I have only
twenty years, would be worth as much as if I was thirty.

Never I missed my written word. To fulfill the commitment that I would sell if I contrajese had
no money.

A Don Ramon is somewhat dazzled eyes, though Dona Encarnacion was present, and uttered these words:

-
If you sell yourself, but at the site are almost all poor, I do not
doubt that you would the eight thousand pieces, but I do not want
you to sell yourself.

- Neither do I - said the girl -.

I told him to say. It was a weight. Goods of my mother are my own and she loves me with all
your soul and make the greatest sacrifices for me.

No doubt you, then, that within six months, eight thousand reais pay me now, no need for me
to sell to pay it.

Doña Encarnación then interrupted him saying:

- Juanita, we have so highly of you, we're sure of the sincerity and the firmness with which
promise to pay, but if within six months did not produce the money, or because your mother
love you very much, does not give them, or because you do not pay your debtors and do not succeed
in selling the house, your honesty and your strength will be worth anything monetarily, although
moral worth much. Your own morality to the issue of money, rather than a guarantee, is a clear
indication of the danger we face, if you pay him, not them again never see.

- Yes, my daughter - brought Don Ramon - and if in this instance, your mortgage instead immorality
mortgaging your morality, I would be safer to collect the money. It would be a pledge pretoria rich
products that would be administered by evil.

Juanita said that the grocer Murcia was teasing, using an expression now used in comical style,
and, as little suffering, began to lose patience and said, lowering
his voice, but straining every one of his words like a lancet:

-
It is, of pranks let you insolent pig uncle.

Think of my proposal and see it you have an account. If you go to court, you may have the pleasure
of seeing in prison to Antonuelo; fixed but will never see eight thousand. However, if the given now
received and agree to pay me to sign, in six months or sooner and this is as clear as sun shines,
it will recover its eight thousand reais plus interest for me to put them, because I do not
want to forward to me by my beautiful face.

- Although pig uncle calling me names, allow me to at least your pretty face you forgive the
insult. I also move your pretty face, not the petty thoughts that you done for me, to lend
the eight thousand pieces if you promise to your mother has to settle with the contract. Anyway,
as you understand, because you have more than enough talent, but If you are inexperienced,
I run great risk in making the loan, that the damages is not loose, and therefore can not loose
interest. However, I aspire to that instead of calling me pig, call me generous and splendid.
Marvel.

Doña Encarnacion, who had hitherto repressed anger, suffering the insult the frail from her husband
for fear of going to brawl with Juanita and even be beaten and battered, could not contain himself
and seeing and hearing her husband as mellifluous and so biased to
be generous, and interrupted him, exclaiming:

- Do not melt, man,
do not get a jelly, do not force me to be me who you call Uncle pig.

Attend to what you do, and since you are exposed both to provide the money, which is with some
fruit.

- I do not melt, I treat what I do - said Don Ramon - but instead of responding to injuries with
other injuries I want to be magnanimous and respond with favors and benefits. Juanita, I am
in receipt of eight thousand reales so I stole you sign a me promissory note, which expire in
six months, the said sum, plus a few per percent.

- Thanks, Don Ramon - said Juanita -. You enter the two documents. I'll take, signed by you, I will
ensure that Antonuelo free, and sign and leave in power from you stating that you'm indebted.

-
Okay. No more to say - "Don Ramon.

And going to his desk he wrote the two documents in a jiffy. In the note Juanita undertook
to pay, within six months, the amount of ten thousand.

- You see my moderation - Murcia shopkeeper said the girl presenting the document for sign it
-. I limit myself to charge you only twenty-five percent, despite the danger I run to stay
without my money, because, despite all your good intentions, no have a penny within six months
and have to renew the note, which I would very great harm.

- I think - said Dona Encarnacion -; as we walk now engulfed in business as productive, we won a hundred
percent a year. Believe me, Juanita, by lending us the eight thousand reais expose them to run
out, and also to lose another five percent, or other two thousand reales, we could have won
by giving the eight thousand more lucrative job, but, finally, What do you do? My lord husband
lost the key when you see a palm like yours.

- Whatever - Juanita said - thank you very much please make me. And pocketing in his pocket
the other haberío document after it was read and appreciated well,
merchants goodbye and went home.

XXXVI

I caught up with the flow of events, given the importance I give and the rate I want to narrate,
I neglected the chronology.

Is vague and confusing and should fix it a little.

Nothing easier. Suffice it to say for the day of the flight of Don Paco happened to be Sunday Palm.

As
Don Paco wandered all day and the next, it turns out again to start Villalegre Holy Tuesday.

Such
are the concerns and the rapture of all the inhabitants of Villalegre
during that week, and nobody had noticed the disappearance or return
if there was Don Paco the character was so remarkable, so active and
usually was always around.

What has not been known, even in normal times, were the reasons for his departure and his back.
Jealousy followed buried in the deepest silence for those who caused and suffered, by Don Andrés,
Juanita and Don Paco.

And the crime and the media Antonuelo Don Paco used to remedy some and frustrate others were
interested in silence them, and was achieved that shut up the shopkeeper
and his wife, only people interested tell them.

Only knew Antonuelo beaten had returned, but despite comments did, no one could manage with
few suspected the motive and who was the author of the drub.

The time that was the least Villalegre purpose for which the vulgar
attention fijase in one set, and it was extraordinary, contemporary
real life.

General attention I was enthralled and suspended by a staggering dramatic symbolic representation
would verified for four consecutive days, taking by actors in half or maybe more half of men,
and spectators to the other half of them, all women and children and not a few outsiders.

Easter
processions start on Wednesday and end on Saturday. I, therefore, I have seen in my childhood in
another town where they are very similar to those of Villalegre,
canned I remember them the most poetic, where people imagine that
the censure without or aesthetic faculties are dull.

To some accidents peasant roughness provides a representation of candid talk spell.

Was there an accident or episodes in that representation in the sacred and the profane, the serious
and the humorous and the tragic and the comic out of tune somewhat. Zealous and discreet bishops
certainly have done very well in removing these inconsistencies or
outbursts, but the bottom line representation, which consists of processions
and steps, is still and been sorry abolished; had been a crime against
popular poetry.

In my view, even correct, prim and perfect what you do, but do not deny that provided to the
dapper and improvement is necessary beating with care. Can result if I lawful worth of a literary
analogy, what happens to a letter in verse or prose when the author,
with a desire to spruce up the style, bumble, soba and withered what
he wrote and withered leaves, licked and without spontaneity and grace.

It

also to see that with fruit and penetrate its deep sense of refinement without and ideas of luxury clothing
and accuracy obtained in rich and populous cities. Only then, and thoughtfully, it is perceived
as sublime and beautiful of dogmatic truth under the veil of shining symbol.

Must not draw back is so rough bark whosoever will enjoy the sweet food that plot and the spirit
it contains.

The representation is not limited to providing people with a transcript of the passion and death
of Christ and redemption of the world, but somehow all-encompassing
divine providential plan History, like Bossuet's famous speech.

Humans certainly are not deemed worthy of representing the divine beings, or believe suitable for
this, and afraid to desecrate the intervening action on it immediately. Of Hence, all moments
of high mystery of redemption through images appear carried on a litter, and whose silent and solemn
movements will explain a preacher from a pulpit erected in the square
and the surrounding crowd.

Speak only beings human. The superhuman silent, except for a few angels who sing what they
say.

For example, the crier from the balcony of the town hall read aloud
the sentence that condemns Jesus to ignominious death on a cross,
and between two thieves, Caesar's enemy and many other crimes.

The preacher then exclaims:

- Calla, false preacher, shut up, forked tongue, and hear the voice of the angel who says ....

Then appears in another balcony of the house is better than the child in front of City Hall six or seven
most beautiful, smartest and sweetest voice in the place there, and neatly dressed as an angel,
with white satin embroidered kilt of golden stars, with sparkling and extended wings and a crown
of flowers, sing a simple and sublime contraesencia, which begins:
"This is justice to the Eternal Father sends ....»

He then explains, with energetic concision that does not preclude clarity, the mysteries of
the Incarnation and redemption, when the fullness of time uncreated Word binds to human nature,
glorifying it and making it worthy of heaven, suffering in and through it, so to wash their sins.

Only purely natural events, which may involve secondary characters, are represented by men.

There is one, however, is very crucial and that the men represented.

Is foreshadowing, prophetic reflection of the sacrifice of the Son for the Father is the sacrifice
Isaac by Abraham in the summit of Mount Moriah, and prevents another angel. The mountain is
represented in the middle of the plaza on a stage covered with vegetables. Abraham and Isaac do
not talk, just action. When Abraham has already raised the knife to slay his son, the angel stops
singing a romance. Isaac then receives the crown of martyrdom, which holds in processions following
days. Abraham sacrificed a lamb, according to ancient rites.

The main characters of the Old Testament run in silent and solemn procession, Sacred History
as take body and appear before our eyes in perfect vision. What hurts the child's mind and rustic
good faith that does not exactly fit this vision the archaeological
truth, and that it does not deploy the luxury and pomp, if imagination
puts the common people there by far?

In his view appear, and move on, Elias, Ezekiel, Daniel, Isaiah, Amos and other prophets and
kings, judges and princes, Melchizedek, David, Moses, Solomon, and I do not know how many more.
All still have the face of the cover, and in the powers, halo or nimbus crown their heads, inscribed
with the name of each. Distínguense also by the attributes in their hands: David takes the
harp; Solomon a model of the temple, and Moses, the tablets of the Law

Like the prophets were living rough and penitent, and did not care
much of the skill and elegance in dress, they are called ensabanados
because their tunics and cloaks are made with sheets.

And, on the contrary, monarchs and nobles are adorned with all the luxury they can, through robe
wearing the best clothes of their wives or girlfriends, and quilts richest robes of the beds,
which are called encolchados.

As each procession passes, usually spend three or four hours in the street, corridors running,
which almost always tells a Nazarene singing an arrow.

To prevent and to draw public attention to each corridor, two or three Nazarenes ring the trumpets
with melancholy and prolonged stress. So, for instance, when evangelists are writing what
passes splints and some Jews are crooks behind making many grimaces and contortions and steal
their styles, evangelists, resigned and sad, then open your arms
and put on the cross.

The trumpets resound again to give the corridor ended.

Things are a certain delicacy and fine art inspired delicacy. So carrying the cross in litters,
big and black as polished ebony with gorgeous shots of silver, without Christ in it, which is supposed
resurrected and in heaven, from which hang seven broad green ribbons,
red and white colors of the three theological virtues.

End of each tape you grabbed a child or a group of children, representing all together very
nicely the seven sacraments of Holy Church.

Other children talares robes and winged cherubs on his shoulders carried the ark of the alliance,
as a reminder of the old law, before the Gospel and the law of grace.

In short, for me everything is so good, if not for the fear of being branded irrelevant and inappropriate
to dwell too much on descriptions of this place, continue telling
without getting tired and artistic delight as shown in Villalegre
in those four days.

Suffice it to note here that Friday, at dusk, the holy burial place in the that no longer seem
symbolic figures of the characters in the old law, there is only Nazarenes Cruz brothers, taking
each in his own hills and boasting that is heavy and large, and not
a few Roman soldiers and Jewish, converted and, in proof of which
are in Rosaries two separate hands and are praying devoutly.

There is, finally, many men and boys pious light the candles burial.

But the most solemn and touching procession is the Holy Saturday is
verified from TAS nine o'clock until noon.

It leaves only the image of the Virgin of Solitude, which is like the palladium of the town
and that is kept and venerated in the ancient temple which is there
at the other end of the new parish, at the top of the hill that dominates
the town, the Acropolis, as it were, and the left side of the duke's
castle, where this came with his retinue to fight the Moors riot border
and enter the lands of Granada.

That image is a masterpiece of Christian art at the time of its greatest flowering in Spain.
It is true that one can say that the sculptor did nothing but head and hands; pure thought and
heavenly and the environment by virtue of which action can become
thought.

But those hands and face are that admirable beauty. That face looks divine, combining in it
the expression of deep sorrow and humble in accordance with the will of the Almighty. Virgin's
eyes are beautiful and sweet tears the damping. On the cheeks of
image there are two or three tears like dew on roses.

In the rest of the image is not noticed or drawing a woman's body. Everything is covered a rich
and extensive velvet robe embroidered with gold.

The artist, representing the eternal feminine, the merger with the pain of the two excellences
of women as virgin and mother, it seems that fled from the corporeal and only wanted to provide
a visible to the spirit.

Trimmings and embroidery on the tunic of the Virgin are the handles of the seven swords that cross
the chest.

In the procession of Holy Saturday, all the characters of the Old Testament and the Jews and the
Roman soldiers fade and is eclipsed by the divine image of the Virgin.

Only Accompanying the clergy and the pious crowd with countless candles and lighted candles.

With
devotion and meditation walk the procession to the beaten track,
but just go back and again in his church, all the bells of the town
touch glory ringing loud; a very angry bull rope goes outside, and
the fans and capean deal in prison freedom is given to an inmate,
who plays Barabbas, and in several places by the way, where little
danger of killing anyone, Judas hanged two separate, or large rag
dolls, stuffed tow and crackers, against which the young men shot
dead with shotgun until the burning Judas giving many triquitracazos
and popping.

Thus ends with the joy of the Lord's resurrection the Easter holiday interesting.

XXXVII

Everything was upset that day in the lower house of the cacique. It gave people to different jobs
to prepare a great feast that was to take place the next day, Wednesday Ghost. The procession,
Preamble to the other, and should be on that Wednesday afternoon, was directed and financed
every year by Mr. Don Andrés Rubio, brother of the more Brotherhood important.

Were to go out in the procession three masterpieces of sculpture,
as heavy either them than to carry her through the streets needed
to be an army of penitents.

The first sculpture is the Lord of the Pollinita, Jesus riding on a humble animal and enter triumphantly
into Jerusalem.

The village, composed of large number of penitents, as Roman soldiers
and Jews, was to march front of that picture with palms and large,
leafy branches of olive. 

Then, preceded by all ensabanados, jumeones
encolchados and that could be had to Dinner out, the weight is huge
because the entire image consists of thirteen life-size figures natural,
and the table, something heavy and it will also cover adorned with
flowers, finest fruits from the fall have been preserved to this day
with the highest care, and a large and complicated bunch of candy,
which throws the rest of the smartest and ingenious confectioners.

After
the dinner, and also preceded by many people, had to leave the Garden
of Prayer, where Christ prays on his knees, an angel who wants to
be in the air, but that relies on the branches of an olive tree, offering
Christ the cup of bitterness, and the disciples lie on the ground
asleep.

After the procession, Don Andrés had to take the still life
through the window and give dinner to the apostles, the prophets,
the ancient biblical characters, the plebs Jerusalem, the Nazarenes
and the Roman garrison