 

I heard that the character of Mr. Cane is as cheerful as kind and frank in his book wanted, no doubt,
make a show of skepticism, and hints at a lot - too much? - often As always note the eternal annoyance.
And yet, how bitter contradiction holds that original desire to appear annoyed! Mr. Cane annoyed
when, in his prime the old has gone the highest positions in his country, but finding no smiles
everywhere, but not stepping on flowers, darling of the goddess Fortuna! Could it be perhaps that apparent
luxury real nuisance happiness? ...

       * * * * *

We are witnessing a travel book written by a person who, despite having traveled lot is not
really a traveler. The author does not feel the passion of travel: supports in spite of the discomforts
material moves from one point to another, but damn nuisances the sea voyage, changing trains
the lousy hotels, etc., etc. Talk about your trip with a coldness that freezes: semiescéptico
adopts a certain style, semiburlón, to laugh those who claim to have
that passion so scary.

'Many times - he says - in a room, bright light, or an elegant table and delicate, I heard a man,
cultured, refined, well-placed: I have a passion for travel, and take your face vague expression
of a spirit that floats on the prospect of far horizons, I have come
reminded of the cabin, the mate, the havoc caused, pipe, all the miseries
of life sea, and I wanted to see the poetic charms given to the traveler
who dreams!

".

Ah, the joys of travel by them, without any concern, seeking to please the intellectual curiosity
always sharp, never satisfied There's nothing in the world can compared to the satisfaction of the
need to see and know: the impression is of clarity, a sincerity of such a force that embodies
the description that unintentionally transmitting the reader the
sensation, and seems to really read those pages that are traversed
regions described therein.

That vivacity of emotion, that special pleasure which is experienced, understands only the true
traveler, who feel nostalgia of travel when in his corner who lives with life and intense retrospective
of the years in which travel the world. And a spirit worship, for a lively intelligence and a restless
curiosity, what curse is the gift of passion for travel! The horizon seems to close when you
have to give to meet this friend tyrannical atmosphere of routine existence, quiet, the thousand
charms of bourgeois life, which stifles: daydreams about exotic countries, with lines, local
styles, with customs disappear, with cities that are transformed The pleasure of riding the world watching,
analyzing and comparing! And the damn cosmopolitanism contemporary, with its fury leveling, invades
everywhere with his perennial cannot, its horrible dress, the superficiality of manners colorless
- blurring, thanks to the advancement of roads, the natural charm of the local, the man with
his history and customs, according to the latitude in which it is.

The pleasure of travel is a divine gift: it requires its followers a set of conditions not found
in every mouth-street, and hence the common approach or bourgeois flatness can not understand that may
be on travel and emigration enjoyment one and only seen in the translation from one point to another
disruption of daily life and rutinera, discomfort materials, have
to find things unknown, and that irritates them, makes them uncomfortable,
because the intellect are lazy and got used to his mechanical work
and known.

But the few who can appreciate and understand what it means travel, living a double life, because
they simply close their eyes for a moment, referred to evoke a landscape, and it revives with
an intensity of life, with a force of color, with an accuracy of
the details seems to transport us to the moment you first look at
and delete and the notion of time since then