 Had often heard his master the same words when they
say something funny or to haggle with buyers of beasts.

- Ah thief, false prophet! Think you do not know why you go? Can you imagine that the old Madariaga
has not seen your dirty looks and glances of her daughter dead fly, and when you paseabais you and her
holding hands in the presence of poor China, who is blind the intellect? ... Not a bad blow,
Frenchy.

With it you seize half of the weights of the Galician, and you say you have done to America.

And
as he shouted this, or rather, screamed, had wielded the whip, tapping edge in the stomach of his
manager with an insistence that the same could be affectionate than
hostile.

- So I come to say goodbye - said Desnoyers haughtily -.

I know it's an absurd passion, and I want to go.

- The Lord is going! - Kept screaming the rancher -. Mr. thinks that this can do I want! No,
sir, this does not send anyone but old Madariaga, and I order you to stay ... Oh, Women! Serve only
been pitching to men. And we can not live without them! ...

Gave several silent walks around the room, as if the last words might make him think in things far,
far different from what previously had said. Desnoyers looked uneasily still holding the whip to his
right. If you try to hit as pawns? ... Was face torn between a man who had always treated
with kindness or appeal discrete to a leak, taking advantage of their turns, when the farmer
stood before him.

- Do you really want it ... really? - asked -. Are you sure she loves you? Look closely at what
you say, that love that there is a lot of deception and blindness. I too, when I married, my
china was crazy. Is it true that you want? ... Well, take down, Frenchy the devil, someone has
to carry, and you do not loose out as a cow mother ... Let's see
if I stay full of grandchildren.

Reappeared the major producer of men and beasts to make this wish.

And if it considers necessary to explain his attitude, he added:

- I do all this because I love you, and I love you because you are serious.

Again the Frenchman was absorbed, not knowing what it was so appreciated
the seriousness.

Desnoyers, to marry, he thought of his mother. If poor old could see this extraordinary leap
of his fortune! But Mom had died a year before, believing his son enormously rich because every month
he sent one hundred fifty pesos, slightly more than three hundred francs, drawn the salary he had
in the room.

Joining the Madariaga family served for less interest is attending to his business.

He pulled the city, with the attraction of the charms are not known. He spoke with contempt
of rural women, poorly washed Chinese, now inspired him disgust.

Had left their country rider clothing and exhibited with childish satisfaction that suits you
dressed a tailor in the capital. When Elena wanted to accompany him to Buenos Aires, defended
claiming troublesome business. "No, go with your mother."

The fate of fields and cattle not inspired concerns. His fortune, managed by Desnoyers, was
in good hands.

- This is very serious - say in the dining room before the family
together -.

As serious as I ... Of does not anyone laugh.

And so the French could guess that his father, speaking of serious, alluded to the integrity character.
According to Madariaga spontaneous statement, since the early days he tried to Desnoyers could
guess a genius like his own, perhaps more hard and firm but not yelling and eccentricities. For
this he had been treated with extraordinary kindness, feeling a clash between the two would not fix. Their
only disagreements were due to costs set by Madariaga in earlier
times.

Since the son directed the stays, the work cost less and people showed greater activity. And
this without shouting, no harsh words, with just his presence and short orders.

The old man was the only thing he faced to keep the capricious system followed suit of the gift.
Indignant thorough and mechanical order, always the same, without
some arbitrary quirky, good-natured tyranny.

It is often presented to some of the Desnoyers Mestizo peons to the public posed by the malice
in intimate relationship with the landowner. "Patroncito, says the old pattern to give me five
dollars."

The little chief responded negatively, and soon after had Madariaga, angry gesture, but measuring
his words, considering to which his son was as serious as him.

- Much love you, son, but here no one commands but me ... Ah, Frenchy! Are equal to all those
of your land pilláis penny goes to the media, and sees more sunshine though you crucified
... Did I say five dollars? I'll ten. I sent him, and that's it.

The French paid a shrug, while his father, satisfied with the victory, fled to Buenos Aires. It
was good to note that the room still belonged to Madariaga Galician.

In one of his trips back with a companion, a young German, who, according to him, knew everything and
served to all.

His son worked too. Karl Hartrott would help in accounting. And Desnoyers agreed, feeling a
few days a nascent estimate the new employee.

Belonging to two enemy nations meant nothing. Everywhere there are good people and this Karl
was a subject worthy of appreciation. Was kept at a distance from their peers and was inflexible
and hard to lower.

All his faculties seemed to focus on service and admiration of those who were above him. Just
unfold the lips Madariaga German shook his head in advance to support their words. If I said something
funny, your Laughter was a shocking sound. With Desnoyers showed taciturn and applied work
regardless of hours. Just saw him enter the Administration, jumped from his chair straightening
with military rigidity. Everything was ready to do so. On their own, spying on staff, betraying
their oversights and shortcomings.

This service not enthusiastic about his immediate boss, but thanked
him as an expression of interest by the establishment.

The old rancher praised the acquisition as a success, claiming that
his son's held alike.

- A very helpful waiter, is not it?

... These gringos of the German work well, they know many things
and cost little.

Then, so disciplined! So humilditos! ... I'm telling you, because you Frenchy, but you have
cast evil enemies. Are people hard to peel.

Desnoyers replied with a shrug.

His homeland was far away and also the German. Wonder if it again! ... There were Argentine, and should
think about things immediately, without worrying about the past.

- Also, have so little pride! - Continued Madariaga ironic tone -. Any gringo of these, when
it is dependent on the capital, sweeping the shop, make dinner, take the accounting sold to the
customers, typing, results from four to five languages, and accompanied if necessary, to the
friend of love like a great lady ... all for twenty-five dollars month. Who can fight with people
like that!

You, Frenchy, you're like me ... very seriously, and you would starve before going through certain
things. So I tell you that are fearful.

The farmer, after a short reflection, he added:

- Maybe not as good as they seem. You have to see how they treat those who are below them. They might
think the simple but was not, and when they smile when receiving
a kick, say to himself: "Wait it reaches the mine, and I will refund
three."

Then he seemed to regret his words.

- Anyway, this Karl is a poor boy, an unhappy, just tell me something, open the mouth as if to
swallow flies. He asserts that it is very family, but who knows of
these gringos!

... All starving, coming to America, the cast of children princes.

"So he had familiarly Madariaga from the first moment, no gratitude, as to Desnoyers, but to
make him feel his inferiority. He had also introduced in their house, but only to give piano
lessons to the youngest daughter. "The Romantic" and not placed at dusk at the door watching the
setting sun. Karl, once work in the administration, came to the house of the farmer, sitting next to
Ellen, who typed with a persistence worthy of a better fate.

At the last minute, German, accompanied on the piano, sang fragments of Wagner, which made Madariaga
to doze in an armchair with a strong cigar Paraguay acceded to his lips.

Elena watched with growing interest while the gringo singer. It was the gentleman awaited dream
of the white queen. It was almost a servant, a blond pulling immigrant to red, fleshy, somewhat
heavy and with bovine eyes that reflected an eternal fear of displeasing
to their bosses.

But day by day, was found in him something which changed his first impressions: Karl women's
whiteness beyond the face and hands tanned by the sun rising martial of his whiskers, and the
ease with which he was riding his horse, his air troubadour to sing
with a rather deaf tenor voluptuous romances with words she could
not understand.

One night at the dinner, could not restrain himself, and talked with feverish eagerness which
has made a great discovery:

- Father: Karl is noble. Belongs to a family.

The rancher made a gesture of indifference. Also in those days was concerned. But during the
evening felt the need to unload on someone's inner rage that came
gnawing since his last trip to Buenos Aires, and interrupted the singer.

-
Hey, gringo, what's that in your nobility and other clubs who have
told the little girl?

Karl left the piano to stand up and respond. Under the influence of recent songs, there in his attitude
something to remember when Lohengrin to reveal the secret of his life. His father was a general
von Hartrott, one side of the war leaders of 70. The Emperor had rewarded ennobled. One of his
uncles was an intimate adviser King of Prussia. His older brothers were on the officers of
the regiments privileged. He had drawn sword as a lieutenant.

Madariaga interrupted him, tired of so much greatness.

"Lies ... clubs ... air. "Talk nobility to him gringo! ... Went very young of Europe plunged
into the riots American democracies, and although it seemed somewhat anachronistic nobility
and incomprehensible, is imagined that the only genuine and respectable was that of his country.
For the gringos were granted first place for the invention of machinery for ships, for animal breeding
price, but all the Counts and Marquises of gringuería seemed fake.

-
All farces - he repeated -.

Not in your country is noble, and you have all together five pesos. Tuvierais If not you would
come here to eat or you send enviaríais women who are ... you know what they are as good as
me.

To the astonishment of Desnoyers, the German dash humbly accepted
this, nodding movements Head to the last words of the pattern.

-
If they were true - Madariaga continued relentlessly - all these titles
batons, swords and uniforms, why did you come here?

What the hell have you done in your country to have to go?

Now Karl hung his brow, confused and babbling. "Dad ... Dad, "pleaded Helen. Poor thing! How
to humiliate him because he was poor! ... And he felt a deep gratitude to his brother to see
that he broke his silence to defend the German.

- But I appreciate
to this young man! - Madariaga said apologetically -.

Are those of the earth give me rage.

When, after some days, Desnoyers made a trip to Buenos Aires, explained the anger the old.
For several months he had been the protector of a forgotten German-born soprano in America
by an Italian operetta company.

She recommended to Karl, a fellow bastard that, after rolling through several countries of
America and perform different jobs, lived next door Knight him in class singer. Madariaga had joyously
expended many thousands of dollars. A youthful enthusiasm accompanied him in this new existence
of urban pleasures, until to find a second life that Germany had in his absence and how they laughed
at him parasites in his entourage, flew into a rage, saying goodbye for ever, with accompaniment
bumps and broken furniture.

The latest adventure of your story!

... Desnoyers guessed this willingness to give hear for the first
time admitted his years.

I did not think back to the capital. All lies!

The existence in the countryside, surrounded by family and doing much good to the poor, was the
only truth. And the terrible centaur idyllic expressed with tenderness, with a firm under sixty-five,
and insensitive to the temptation.

After his scene with Karl, and increased the salary of it, appealing
as always to the generosity to repair their violence.

What I could not forget was about his nobility, gave grounds for new jokes. That story had brought
glory to his memory trees Pedigree players stay. The German was a pedigree, and this nickname
appointed him up.

Sitting, on summer nights under a roof of the house, was delighted patriarchal watching his
family around him. The night was quiet hum was populated by cloqueos insects and frogs. In the
distant ranches came the songs of the peons preparing their dinner. It was the time of harvest,
and great bands of immigrants were housed in stay for the extra work.

Madariaga had known dark days of war and violence. He remembered the last years the tyranny of Rosas,
he witnessed the arrival. It listed the various revolutions national and provincial in which he had
taken part, not to be outdone by its neighbors, and to those designated under the title "people."
But all this had disappeared and no repeated.

Were times of peace, work and wealth.

- Look, Frenchy - she said, shooing the jets of smoke from his cigar to mosquitoes that tossing around
him -. I'm Spanish, you French, Karl German, my girls Argentine Russian Cook, his assistant
Greek block the pawn of English, Chinese cuisine, a are in the country, others Italian or Galician,
and among the laborers come in all breeds and laws ... And we all
live in peace!

In Europe probably would have beaten us at this hour, but here all friends.

And he delighted listening to the music of the workers: Italian songs
laments to the accompaniment of accordion, guitar playing support
to Spanish and Creole voices s wild who sang love and death.

- This
is the ark of Noah - the rancher said.

He meant the tower of Babel, Desnoyers thought, but the old man was the same.

- I believe - he continued - because we live in this part of the world there are no kings and
armies are few, and men only think have the best possible thanks to his work. But I also believe
that we live in peace because there are plenty and everyone comes to your part ... The one rations
are closet if they were less than people!

He returned to be in reflective silence, to add a little later:

- Whatever it is, we must recognize that we live more relaxed here than in the other world.
Men are appreciated for their worth and get together without thinking if they come from a land
or another. The waiters are not going to flock to kill other young men who do not know and
whose crime is being born in the village across ... The man is a bad beast everywhere, I admit;
but here come, have land to spare to lie, and is good with the goodness of a dog sick. There
are too many live in plenty, getting in each other, there is little
pittance and become easily enraged.

Long live peace, Frenchy, and the quiet life! Where one feels well and is not at risk of being
killed by things that do not understand, there is the true ground.

And like an echo of the thoughts of rustic character, Karl, sitting in the lounge at the piano,
softly sang a hymn to Beethoven. "Sing the joy of life, sing freedom. Never lie and betray
your neighbor, so even if you offer the highest throne of earth. "

Peace! ... A few days later agreed Desnoyers bitterness of these illusions
of the old.

It was war, a domestic war, which erupted in the idyllic setting of the room. "Patroncito, run, that
the old pattern has peeled knife and wants to kill the German."

And Desnoyers had run away from your desk, when informed by the voices
of a pawn.

Madariaga pursued Karl knife in his hand to strike at all who tried to block his path. Only
he could stop him, snatching the weapon.

- That pedigree scoundrel! - Shouted the old man with a pale face, shaking between arms of
his son -. All starving believe there is more to come to this house to take my daughters and my
weight ... Let me go I say! Let go for it mate!

And with the desire to be free, gave his apologies to Desnoyers. He had accepted him as son
because it was to his taste, modest, honest y. .. seriously. But that pedigree singer, with all
its superb! ... A man he had taken ... would not say where! And the French, so as he learned
of his early relationship with Karl, he pretended not to understand.

As the German had fled, the farmer finally push left her home. Spoke to give a beating to the
'romantic' and one to China, not to learn things. There surprised his daughter holding hands with
the gringo in a nearby grove and changing a kiss.

- Come by my weight! - Howled -.

America wants to do soon to Galician coast, and this song so much humility and so nobly. Liar! ...
Musician!

And the repeated insistence of "musician!" As if it were
the realization of all their scorn.

Desnoyers, firm and sober words,
given an outcome of the conflict. "The romantic 'hugging his mother,
took refuge on the roof of the house. The brother had protected its
withdrawal, but spite of this, the sensible Elena moaned through tears
thinking of the German: "Poor thing! All against it! "Meanwhile, the
wife of Desnoyers retained his father in his office appealing to all
his daughter's influence judiciously. The French went in search of
Karl, bad parts even the terrible surprise, and gave him a horse to
be moved immediately to the nearest railway station.

Left the room,
but did not stay single long. After a few days, "the Romantica left
behind him ... Iseo "of the white hands" went in search of the gentleman
Tristan.

Madariaga's desperation was not violent and deafening, as
he hoped his son. For first time he saw him mourn. Robust and happy
old age suddenly disappeared. In an hour seemed to have lived ten
years. As a child, wrinkled and trembling, clung to Desnoyers, wetting
neck with her tears.

- It has been born! The son of a great flea
... it has been!

This time he did not regret the responsibility for
their china. Wept beside her, and as if to comfort with a public confession,
he said repeatedly:

- For my sins ... Everything has been my very
great sins.

Began for Desnoyers a period of difficulties and conflicts.
The fugitives sought in one of his visits to the capital, imploring
his protection. "The Romantica wept, saying only his brother, "the
most gentlemanly man in the world" could save her. Karl looked like
a faithful dog who trusts his master. These interviews were repeated
in all his travels. Then, upon returning to the room, was the grumpy
old man, silent, staring before him, as though he saw something invisible
to others, and suddenly saying: "It is a punishment: the penalty for
my sins. "The memory of his early relations with Germany, before take
him to the room, he was tormented as a regret. Some evenings was saddled
a horse, set off at full gallop to the nearest town. He did not go
in search of ranch hospital. Needed to spend some time in the church,
speaking alone with the images, which were there just for him, as
it was he who had paid bills acquisition ... "For my fault, through
my most grievous fault."

But in spite of his repentance, Desnoyers
had to work hard to get him a settlement. When I spoke to regularize
the situation of the fugitives, facilitating procedures necessary
for marriage, not let him continue. "Do what you want, but do not
tell me of them. "It took many months. One day, the French came up
with some mystery. "Elena has a son, and called him in July as to
you. "

- And you, you big useless - shouted the farmer - and the
cow loose your wife live quietly without giving me a grandchild ...
Ah, Frenchy! So the Germans end up piggybacking on you