 That was silly. God revealed it to me through these
pains of mine, and my reason I said so, so many things ... Do not hesitate, no for a moment
the sincerity of your consent. I am convinced that you would have happily married with the
old, that you would have liked, it would have been faithful, would you care that much when he
passed, the poor, old to old man, which can not later .... But, my dear, your consent and those
wonderful words you said sprouted in your gratitude, filial affection that I have. Ay! There
are good marriages, no, with these ingredients. We must not force nature, do not force feelings natural,
making love, gratitude, it is necessary, above all, giving each his own age and not endeavor
to rejuvenate the venerable old age, or wither the beautiful youth, joining a thing with another
off-season. No, a thousand times no. You, wanting to be my wife, taming a feeling robust living
and lives in your heart, you made a sublime sacrifice. I thank you, because understand how sincere
was the sacrifice, but I do not want to accept .... They say that I went hero at one time, because
that Botero is cakes and fancy bread in comparison This burst of energy that you just saw,
my daughter, because this has cost me more fighting, because I know how to make a sacrifice.
Do not quit without a good secure job, a well as delicious, all you promised me your youth,
your true love, your merits immense your beauty, daughter ... For now I'm not boyfriend, I
can tell you that every time you go putting prettier .... In short, my dear, I thought better love
and serve you better and better love and serve God, you gave me as a husband and father ....
And I still have nothing better to say. This I've done would be incomplete, incomplete. If
it were so .... But no, I do not things by halves. My heroics, when out of me, are not nonsense.
To make my daughter I want to fill the void in your life, your feelings and make you crown
cattle of happiness I want to fill that glass to the brim of your life that little by little
has been emptied of their old sorrows, I want to marry the man you love, with that of he and
I can assure you that you deserve.

One was left shocked.

So great was the novelty of that idea, he needed some time to have it by flattery. Turned pale
as death, and thus disturbed the face, that having shame that D. Benigno surprised it was experiencing
very profound impression, lowered his head. Lamb put the palms of his hands on her temples, and luring,
gave him a kiss on the forehead, saying:

- Thank God I can give this besillo, to show a material way the love you profess honest, loving
father, I wanted to spoil foolishly. Do not be ashamed what you feel to hear what I say. It is natural
.... With this one kiss quito shame. Bring in your future husband to stop me kiss you .... If
anyone saw us, What would you say? ... But we, we would laugh and answer not go red, "no longer
we are engaged, we're not dating. "

Sola laughed. Then he grew serious. In his condition did not know what events would be more convenient,
and so left his face to express what I wanted.

- I see you've become very serious and as angry - said the Hero -. Do not like my project?

- Is that Sola ...-- stammered, not hiding the big fear, that suddenly
filled his soul -.

Is ... could happen .... And who assures me ...?

- What could happen,
stupid?

- It could be that he does not love me anymore.

- Nice idea!

Do I have a fool? Do you believe me capable of bending to be the wife of a man not knowing if this
man loves you, and what's more, you deserve?

- So you talked to him! ... Have you been told? ... and what he said?

... You guys are have dealt with this before you talk to me? ... Does he know? ... Do you and
him? ...

Sola thus expressed their curiosity, no question without hitting a thousand questions, disjointed
and trampled, got into his lips, trying out all at once.

- Everything is planned with paternal rest said ...-- D. Benigno -. Quiet, quiet. I can not tell
in a few words I have spoken with that good sir, but I can tell you is love you a lot like
idolatry .... When this thought began to haunt me brain went to see my man. I do not know what
excitement, what lack of trim and poise found in it. I swear I did not like, and out, I said
to myself. "You do not deserve, did not deliver I am the angel of my house. " I returned shortly
after and talked about various things. His talk me loved it. He found him, as always, loyal
and discreet. But I felt like it was busy too policy, and said, 'odd, are green for you. I do not
want my daughter living on tenterhooks, wondering if they hang or shoot her husband .... Guarda,
Paul. " In a third visit ... these my visits were skillful explorations and trials to know whether
it was worthy or not treasure that I was going to give away, so I revealed my plans ever ...
because he said that a third interview spoke warmly, and he is so
spontaneous with me, opened his heart so frankly, I shared his ideas
and plans of life with such sincerity that when they I said to my
coat, "Yes, we must give it.

He is, in fact and law.

" After ran between friends malicious rumors about him .... They said they had done Carlist ....

-
He!

- Slander and nonsense. I went to see him talk.

One day I directed my project. He seemed to understand and turned pale, very pale.

- Pale! - Repeated Sola, who had his clear eyes on D. Benigno, not
lost or lighter vocal inflection of her lips.

- Well ... seemed to
be touched, and hugged me, okay? hugged me.

I told him we would become see you soon.

- And that was ...?

- Last week, my daughter, on my last trip to Madrid. Remember how I was going to buy hinges Door
and window fasteners news?

In fact, he bought a lot of iron, but the mobile home my trip was to learn of his own mouth,
this man you boyfriend ... give him this name ... know from his own mouth if it was true that
he had made Carlist.

- What filthy slander! - Sola said earnestly, mistaken for a phrase to inventors of such evil
nonsense.

- He disabused me remove that doubt .... because, indeed, the daughter
of my heart, if My son goes to the blunder of joining the odious flag
and thrown into the field to defend dead religion .... I do not want
to think, barástolis!

... Bonito have done business! Fortunately for him, I was convinced that there has never considered
joining the order sacristanesca, and when I left the house, said: "Yours, sirrah, you've won you,
rascal! God sends me that you deliver it. Now, that St. Peter bless you. "

- And also that day I told you clearly ...?-- Sola asked, pausing mid-question, because he burned
his lips a little the second half or the corner of the whole question.

-
I did not say anything clearly, because I seemed discreet open wide
the doors without sky before you.

But I opened a crack, I gave him to understand my intentions and the blessed man seemed, as they
say, he saw heaven opened, thereby dark eyes shone.

It was wrapped in early October, and when I said goodbye, I said, "one of these days again.
I will come, perhaps, or without, perhaps, will bring you news much pleased him. "

- Today is 1. St October - Sola said, with a quick phrase, as a spark for word from her lips out.

-
No, that's tomorrow - Lamb said laughing -, I have the Calendar on
your finger.

Do not want to now jump on each other.

Time is a man who has to deal with much respect. Look at the calm and the method that walks. Sometimes
it seems that is slow, sometimes it runs like a greyhound, but it
is our hope: his lordship never leaves its path.

Tomorrow, dear child, we will go to Madrid.

- Me too!

- For it is clear. I want you you see, that I speak. Then you will understand you, and my role
be reduced to prepare some things that are necessary for the wedding
....

With a sigh, and shaking his hands after the de Sola, who were
cold, no doubt because all the heat is picked up in his heart exulted,
Lamb said these words:

- I'll lead a prayer.

Did you attend?

- What a question! - Sola said, beginning to mourn before meeting the request.

- Well, I beg you, that after marriage, because my children can not be your children, as planned,
they look like your brothers.

Sola answered with the river of tears, did not allow words.

Neither were necessary words.

- If you see me mourn - said D. Benigno, wiping a tear with a heroic
gesture - do not think I am poor and distressed.

In my chest do not fit or lad nor envy of mourning frustrated desires.
I am calm and happy, happy.

If I cry is attracting your tears are running mine without knowing
why.

I was a bit different from punishment, yes, but I am comforted to know that if my children have
lost their second mother, good sister are born, Is not it?

Was beginning to fall afternoon and felt the cool of the Tagus.

D. Benigno proposed to withdraw home, and leaving the pearl hard,
took the rough and winding road.

- As the nights grow - Sola said,
giving his arm to his father.

- Yes, my daughter - said this - and
the morning takes a little longer, but comes, do not worry.

- I do
not remember how long it takes from here to Madrid.

- Well, not much.

Peralvillo take the car, which is far sooner.

Do not know the novelty in the world?

Well now you have invented in England about treadmills, evil car
that goes like the wind, walk, walk .... I do not know what goes,
but if there one from Toledo to Madrid, we would go in two hours.

-
In two hours!

That's fable.

- Fable? D. told me Salvador, who has seen it.

- He has seen this machine?

- And it has gone.

- He has walked on it?

It will be wonderful thing.

- Imagine ....

D. Benigno stopped, and the complacency that produced in him the wonders
of the emerging century industry was prepared to give her daughter
demonstrative explanations, to which put horizontal stick and ran
his fingers over it.

- Imagine there on the floor two bars of iron
which are in accordance with enormous wheels Car ... as well as houses.

These cars are tied together. A little to push them as wheels meet the iron bars, wham! that runs
like lightning.

- I understand ... mules ....

- If no mules, silly .... And will
explain D. Salvador, which has mounted on such vehicles.

That mischief have put the English among a people who call Liverpool
and another named Manchester.

D. says Salvador that this is flight.

- Fly! Pride !...-- thing Sola said enthusiastically -.

Saying "I want to go to that part now same "and ...

- And out one
with it.

Well, I say, there are no horses.

Anyone string of cars is moved by a devilish device or mechanism,
which is in heat and steam, and blowing blows, he walks.

I do not know how this is. D. explained it to me Salvador, but I have not been understand.

- And the way to go here and there will not elsewhere?

- Yes, says our friend who is spreading, which in England are doing
more of these blessed railroads, and in France, will start putting
well.

- And in Spain?, Do not do them?

Lamb sighed.

- Now going to start a war, if God does not intervene - he said sadly.

- Upon completion ....

- Maybe start over .... But, after all, we also have here these paths, although only to sample.
D. Salvador says he will spread throughout the land, and that even wildest regions that machine
will run to blows.

- And see here, this caminejo?

- Why not?

- And we say: "In Madrid ...».

- Yes, but that miracle will not happen tomorrow, dear child - Lamb said smiling -. For now content
ourselves with three mules to Peralvillo.

They entered the house, where they found D. Primitive Lamb, nephew
of D. Benigno, who came to spend a few days in Cigarrales, and brought
great news of the Court, including death del Rey.

Dined all a little saddened by the melancholy influence of such news, gloomy comments that accompanied
them former militia captain, and the ominous portents he did.

When D. Benigno stated his intention of going to Madrid the coming day, he announced Primitivo
with informal pessimism probably find the troops insurrection in the streets, the lawlessness,
and the entire village, the Court and the monarchy, given all the demons.

At dawn the next day Sola rose, and opening wide the window from his room overlooking the field,
and whose sill climbed the highest branches of the almond balmy air breathed in the morning
and looked at the trails, the ground, the tower of the cathedral
distinguished, in the distance and amid the dark green of the landscape
looked like a cypress stone left to run after their eyes on the floor
below to the horizon, yellowish term stony hills and blue, was with
her spirit beyond the horizon itself, which returned to sadness.

One might have thought that I missed those iron bars that D. Benign spoke the previous evening
and that, if any, men would imitate the wonderful travel of the birds. Nothing was in the
crooked paths that indicate that the fairies had held last night in those pathways tend metal, miracle
of locomotion, incredible own path to be traveled on the wings of
spirit, with the feet of the subject.

Arose shortly after Lamb.

Peralvillo's car could not take, and had to be underpinned chocolate and pastries for the long and
troublesome journey. Gave one point to the meditations addressing the various necessities of the
hour, and when D. Benigno and she found alone, the hero could not help but ask him what was in their
eyes traces of tears, being more favorable circumstances than adverse. Sola said that he could
not sleep all night because the terrible things that had Primitivo and omens was filled with
dread mysterious spirit. It was true that he said, but had also greatly influenced his insomnia
abrupt and painful the radical change in their destiny, their ideas all the conversation that
she and her protector were worthy to the river bank.

Sola Cordero did not want to hide everything I felt and thought.

- I'm so numb since yesterday afternoon - he said - I do not know how I feel. I spent night imagining
or dreaming disaster trips and falls.

I can not convince them that God take me that way now so different from what went before, without
having to go right to a very great misfortune. I was born with ill fortune.

- Tales, my dear, things of the imagination - said D. Benigno, draining
your chocolate -.

We deliver a vacuous musings and have confidence in God.

That good and bad stars is not very Christian to say.

- Is true, but I can not avoid suspecting danger, being afraid of everything, and this misfortunes.
It is a specialty of mine. If I had not counted Primitivo many horrors .... Now with the death
of King, it will ignite a war such that Spain will be a nation of orphans and widows. Yes, that
is .... Flow rivers of blood, rivers such as water, and brothers
kill brothers .... everything has to rule whether the uncle or niece
uncle niece.

What dreadful nonsense! And these things happen in meetings with
people countries and nations are called!

... And this is the vaunted wisdom of men in Europe they laugh at the wild! I, ignorant woman,
I say that these scholars do not have common sense.

- Daughter of
my soul - said D. Benigno - are you talking as the patriarch of philosophy
as Jean Jacques Rousseau.

Yes, the current state of nations and common sense are incompatible.

In their enthusiasm, Lamb tremolo napkin that had just detached buttonhole
of his coat.

That canvas was the banner of common sense, the flag without color and heraldry.

- I could not remove from me all night - Sola said - an idea that
makes me shudder penalty.

Who assures us that the man whom we seek, and will not be compromised in the civil war? Is it not
likely to be firing shots in the streets?

Can not happen that is already dead?

- Shut up, stupid .... A man so wise .... Do not you realize you ...?

-
I do not understand anything, I feel and nothing else.

The heart usually has some guesses as weird .... Sometimes very mischievous, insists on one
thing, and God takes care after giving like .... I hope I'm wrong. And now God commands us not just
the scourge of civil war We also sent another, this terrible disease .... Do not you hear
about this Primitivo? It's a bad weird, for which people die within hours, sometimes in minutes,
is a Amazing invisible stab and kill, and no one is sure to live within half an hour.

- Yes - said D. Benigno, falling in sombre sadness - is the Asiatic cholera.

On hearing this name repulsive and scary, Sola running through his body felt cold complacent. Lamb
felt the same.

- The disease - he said - has appeared in Spain. People are very quiet for the street, and suddenly
wham! fall to the ground and die. But this infection does not come Madrid .... Come on, there's
the car.

They heard the glad bells Peralvillo mules. Sola said goodbye to the children crying, and promised
to return soon. When boarding the car, said:

- Slow?

- We fly - said the Hero -. Peralvillo, lead us to hurry .... Oh! Too bad we do not have Now
for those lanes of Satan here!

And he was right. Great pity that at this critical time there were no rails Satan!

-XVII-

On the morning of 29 and when no one suspected that the King's death was so close, let Pipaón
being single. The cute couple were blessed with the beautiful church wedding San Cayetano,
on the corner of Bear Street and in charge of giving it was Father Carantoña, of the Dominican
order, big buddy of the bridegroom. Attended by people of quality, There was much pomp and worldly church,
were distributed alms, and everything was ready for in the neighborhoods of the South remain
dilated memory of the event by time. The sleaze D. Felicísimo not allowed lunch heading is given,
as seemed natural in the bride's house and struck him in his very bearing Pipaón and magnificence. But
most the day was notable altercation with our courteous D. Very happy.

The newlyweds, believing that if the old man gave no lunch, not deny them his blessing, were beyond
very joyful, but the devil, who never rests, had made some news Butcher
that morning of traicioncillas of Pipaón and blows that had been infamous
the antechamber of Her Majesty the Queen Cristina.

There was the good lord chirping when they arrived spouses, and I wish they had not gone before,
because just as a volcano erupts, burst D. anger Very happy, not in your mouth was bad sounding
word or epithet burner. White stood the blessed agent, such as limestone, and her face causing
terror level because seemed ready to break into pieces, dropping each fraction by his side.
In vain did Pipaón apologize in vain tried to apologize Micaelita
also love that led day I had, and to Doña María del Sagrario timidly
threw a word of peace in the fiery invective.

Were increasing the anger of the stubborn old man replies, and to conclude grandchildren threw into
the street, ordering them never to set foot in that house loyalty, and warned to disinherit the best
way he could. Husbands left heads down, and when they said goodbye to Mrs. Sagrario in the door,
grabbed the old man sentenced with steely claw arm tables, which side was, and with ardent desire
said:

- Tables, four dollars, four dollars for you if you go now and give it a kick that rascal and
throw him rolling down the stairs. Do not hurt my granddaughter, right? My granddaughter does not.

The
athlete did not play the role of cachetero unworthy at that nasty race household is designated,
and all was in that state. After scolded D. Very happy with Mrs. María del Sagrario, with
the maid, with Tables, and called them they could go to the street and leave him alone, but to
live among spies or traitors, he preferred to be alone with the fair and disinterested cat.
The good man vented his anger by blowing, blowing strong and repeated and that furious trumpet echoed
through the house like the horns of Military Appeals. There was indeed fragile illusion that walls
of the house shaking and the walls of Jericho, because during the coming and going of people
at the time of berrinchín, the floor was shaking and so shake so
threatening that the expelled gladly took the door.

In the afternoon,
they were not yet placated the angry spirits of the church staff,
Monsalud Salvador came to see him. D. I was very happy with despondency.

-
I've sent come to you - said taking the foot of a goat and giving
him strong thump on the table - to communicate unpleasant news about
our friend Mr. D. Carlos Navarro. You, hee, hee, he took much interest
when that mischief of confinement in jail for Villa, who did not hesitate
to come to you, now that the famous warrior the Almighty is in a trance
much more dangerous.

Salvador heard these words with evident interest,
and after stating that he had not favored Carlist sympathies to Navarro,
but by considerations of gratitude and friendship absolutely personal
Butcher begged not hide anything that the worthy soldiers of the Almighty
happening. The old man writhed in his seat. Taking and leaving with
the restless hands, this or that paper because his nerves were in
complete anarchy, and said:

- Will come when these scoundrels, and
come, but Christ lives! Now, under that shadow King, dance on our
ribs, but the roles are bartered, hee .... Just imagine that the brave
D. Carlos went to Navarre to confer with Santos and other brave Thief
captains, good people, healthy people, the people of God. Well, there
was a riot of Viana realistic volunteers, by impatience and zeal silly
misunderstanding. The Viceroy 14 Navarre sent against them a column.
The column does not beat anyone ... as always, but caught D. Carlos,
who was in the Franciscan friary, ji, ji, and together with Thief's
nephew and a cappuccino Santos, who caught doing rounds, led him Estella.
Summary was formed, were party to Madrid, and this Government has
sent cowardly and despicable today, today, ji, has commanded to be
put to the sword, Mr. D. Carlos, the nephew Santos capuchinito Thief
and the cartridge