 Spicy and
provocative to volunteer to dance, luring overseas, are elusive and severe almost insolent, when
they do understand that your kindness has been misinterpreted. The gypsy is a faithful married
by religion and tradition of the race, the maiden is chaste by reflection, personal interest
and also race, and education. The Gypsies are never mixed with Spanish but to speculate, his
home is purely gypsy, and has never known a child of that race among women lost to Granada.
Although all speak Spanish, very wrong in general, not served in their exclusive relationships but
their own language, corrupted in each country, it is true, by the influence of European languages
??that dominate necessarily.

Deeply impressed by the spectacle of the population within which everything is exceptional
- type human, dress, language, customs, habits and culture, - climbed to the height which holds
the vast edifice of the Seminar, a little below the chapel of Monte Santo. San Blas is the character
of this historic site, which houses very underground chapels Weird, and the day of the holy mass
pilgrimages are very popular. They say that there were found the bodies of Saint Cecilia and
his eleven martyrs, burned at time of Nero. It seems he was looking for metal mines that came with the
treasure by chance taking care to chance a curious epigram. In fact, St Cecilio and his companions
were a mine, because their charred remains were left, through faith, very good profits ... to chaplains
Monte Santo.

After five days of residence in that city as highly curious historical as needed. We found the
most interesting of Granada (for which I am forced to omit many details) and we walked away with
a feeling of sadness because that country seduce the heart and spirit. It is a treasure of memories
and poetry for all travelers; but for me it was also an object of deep inner emotions. From the heights
of the Alhambra I had spent five days with my country, evoking all the epics of its history
since the time of Columbus, Balboa, and Jimenez de Quesada.

Unfortunately, the care that should lead Malaga, Santa Fe and Loja, crossing the Sierra-Nevada,
started almost at midnight, and the shadows were so thick on those nights of spring rains, the
whole countryside we had to be veiled by the darkness. So crossed the entire length of the
"Vega" does not enjoy its wonderful landscape around, no power even looking at the overall structure
of the historic Santa Fe, a town that only has decayed Today about 4,000 people, sitting in
orchards and farms to the left bank of Jenil, like an old matron
who works quietly with his spinning wheel, the shade of orange a patio.

A

lack of sleep and landscapes within the coach gave us a bizarre distraction. We went with a German
Jew, young, strong, regular tea, smug, glib and a singular greed, who had been staying in
Granada in the same background as us. He complained bitterly famines had happened, the poor quality
of food (and that Our inn was the most famous of Granada) and he was right, because it is against
all humanity Spanish hoteliers that keep the traveler with its abominable chickpea dishes cooked. The
German had been curious all his pockets full of oranges and biscuits and in three hours, until
the dream he gave up, did not suspend its gastronomic exercises.

His hobby was trying to pass for a tourist English original, which had known all the world
(with the exception of some continents), who loved pretty girls, had great achievements of French,
Italian, Circassian, Spanish, etc., and was preparing to take a pleasure trip to Australia,
no doubt to continue his life Polynesia Caesar of the daughters of Eve. But the fact is that
asking details about the counties that had visited was no reason at all, explaining his ignorance
with a thousand subterfuges. Although he spoke English well, his speech in French and Spanish
German accent revealed the southern as his face revealed to the Israelite. We had our reasons for
believing that industrial race belonged to another friend of diligence, that commission Hordel
talking to their pockets, without prejudice to the elbows. Among the many benefits go by rail
and telegraph should be counted as first-order quasi-abolition the commis-voyageur, or commission,
the most obnoxious pest that can give a traveler. The part-telegraph and steam wagon, in fact, make
it almost unnecessary to send these locusts other markets to seek placement for manufacturing
products. In Italy, Spain and other European countries where the railways are still in the beginning,
the commission emissary France, England, Belgium or Germany is firm or with any consistency. So
is that in Barcelona, ??Valencia and the Andalusian cities I had to find that plague all hotels or
inns.

The commission (especially as neither the French) is able to discredit
his country, wherever you want, with their own resources.

Ignorant, conceited, rude, swindler often charlatan to cause headaches, he is seen everywhere
teasing those who have the candor to admit their company. One exception to this rule is a prodigy.
The more than forty in Spain I met a bear. Our German Jew began to succumb, as to their nationality,
then, for fun, we made many charges against Great Britain, and Germany was declared for not
accepting responsibility. I pretended that I had strong opinions and said recalcitrant I was a horror to
admit the Jewish Rothschild in the British Parliament, because the breed damn did not deserve
any consideration. Then he sprang like a spring agitated, angry and terrible, as if his race
had to speak for his mouth and confessed Israelite a candor that we tore them all an explosion
of laughter. I did not have, difficulty in convincing that I did not have any religious or racial
concerns, and to his own as estimated one of the most beautiful, tough and aggressive in the
world and one of those who have contributed more, by the power of work and the feeling of brotherhood,
the progress of civilization. Run and embarrassed the former English tourist, leaned back in
his corner and three oranges chow and six biscuits, by way of compensation, with him more reflective.
The next day, in Malaga, we caught him red-handed in the hotel, featuring a merchant all his
collection of cards with samples of goods, and although it was held in the female conquests,
cosmopolitan confessed that his trips had been made not by an English tourist but a Robust
German Jew, rake HB & C meetings and Manchester.

It was six o'clock when we came to Loja, after the first cut soft throats or modifications of
the Sierra-Nevada.

Except in Switzerland, I have not seen anything more picturesque, small class of lovely landscapes
freshness, which the box surrounding to Loja. It is a fairly large city, because it has more
than 17.000 inhabitants, and lies about 45 km from Granada and 56 from Malaga. Its agricultural
products are the general Andalusia, but is notable for its manufacture of cloth and paper.
It is the country of water par excellence, delicious and very abundant. Not only has over
two hundred public sources and individuals, but have now arrived at centuries in his term,
more than 5,000 watersheds. The population, ugly, uneven, graceless, sad and quite dirty, makes
a strange contrast with the alderredor. Situated on two hills separated by Jenil, with most of its
mass on the left bank, the dominant almost everywhere the buttresses of the Sierra, and offers
a delightful view to a large portion of the Vega of Granada.

The sun was just beginning to produce on their gorgeous snowy peaks
reverberations; a broad belt of fog encircled the neighboring hills
in half, leaving open the eminence with its huge granite boulders,
and low hills, and valleys Jenil deep and winding of fresh, green,
flowers, studded with mills and factories exquisite gardens and rows
and groups of white poplars and other trees upright.

The earth seemed to rejoice, greeting the sun and his admirable Andalusian sky with a concert
voluptuous harmonies and delicate aromas evaporate.

After Loja, the road continues to rise and snails among well-cultivated beautiful hills towards
the heart of the Sierra. The Colombian traveler who travels the roads that cut Spanish Sierras,
can not but smile with disdain, remembering that in Colombia there are lazy doomsayers who believe
the Andes have been condemned to solitary confinement to the inhabitants
of many mountainous regions of the New World.

Seeing what has been achieved, in point of railways and highways in regions of the Alps, the Pyrenees
and the mountains of Spain, I said: "No, the Andes, far from being obstacles are the most wonderful
gift God has given to New World, and the people who can use them will be the happiest of the earth.
Willing and money all regions of the Andes are likely to admit when roads and railways may need
social movement. "

In the midst of this ocean of naked mountains, hills whimsical, high plains and small and huge
chasms, run without any risk of prosecution by an excellent road. It seems at every moment,
to turn a sharp corner, which is the measure to save a cliff jumping from one hill to another, depending
on the terrain is rugged.

This anda surprise surprise. I have not seen anything so romantic, so beautiful and sad as harshly
those low plains of the Sierra-Nevada, which seem to make dried lake beds many centuries. Upon
entering the premises of one of these flats, rooms Vastis Emerald pavement between colossal
walls of iron and tin, it is believed that no output way forward. The vegetation is a poetic
sadness, because the whole floor is covered planting of wheat and other cereals or legumes,
on whose carpet stand out Here and there, huge, dark and majestic oaks of vegetable life these
calls in Spain oaks, whose branches produce cork. Those trees are very numerous there, as
in all alti-plains of the Spanish Sierras, and are fairly traded considerable. Nature, providing
that the man invented the bottle as a second belly to keep the wine, has inhabited the land of cork
trees in the upper plains to the slopes where it grows the generous vine. If all the oaks
that grow in the world occur even for corks! ...

At around these simple paintings of vegetables are raised in complete great circle granite rocks and
ink appearance but unique, all rugged, rough, wrinkled and huge cracks - some ashen and dull
pewter color other with a twinkle sad some black or brown, - presented the most curious play
of light and shade, as the inclination the sun, and as rounded tops, and in extravagant peaks,
truncated cones or needles, or in rows that mimic jagged circular
and great iron crowns.

On top of these bare heads and those moles in surprising ways without any visible stratification,
perpendicularly to excel in the distance, like lamps of silver and diamond earrings sky, soaring
domes and broken backs of the snow in the Sierra. What is of supreme beauty, which the artist invites
contemplation and defies description ....

Sales had happened (and certainly "would not remember" a certain tortilla made with rancid oil,
as used in Spain, which lasted between the palate and fauces more a week), had left the center
of the Sierra, and we began to descend from an immense nursery of mountains and hills prodigiously
complicated and intertwined. The region of the oaks was over, and crossed the skirts and the
inclined planes where is a very extensive cultivation of the vine.

Is like saying we were going neck bottle (cork) to his belly drunk (grapes) understands how great
will be the producing vineyards in the province of Malaga, almost entirely by their wrinkled
terrain bare mountains, just to see that even in the most outstanding and the deep ridges and
slopes more rugged the land is covered with vineyards.

Suddenly, a high back, bend, the horizon is opened before our eyes, without any eminence interrupt
the vast panorama. Amazing beauty that awaited us! In the valley bottom, the coast and the
city of Malaga, later the shimmering desert Mediterranean narrowed by two continents, the distance,
visible only with the help of telescope, the blue mountains of Africa, vague, choppy and confusing,
to the coast Tetuan, and all covered by a beautiful clear blue sky,
lighted by an almost tropical sun: the magnificent African sun!

What is contemplated, admiring with supreme fit and then rapture deep, but does not describe
.... I felt my heart beat on a hill de los Andes, in the presence of a plain-ocean ....

* * * * *

Under the artistic point of view and the intellectual, Málaga is a city of little interest. They
reign only industry and commerce, and historical memories hardly reveal in relation to the
time of the Arabs or Moors, in the general structure of the city, in some traditional arts, but many
curious features of little importance, especially in sea ??and sky.

       Indeed, the sea and sky suggest Málaga every moment in Africa whose
atmosphere, bathing with hot flashes the Spanish coast, is as a link
junction between the two semi-continents wave from the top of Rocky
Mountain above the Mediterranean.

The valley that lies Malaga, framed between the sea and the foothills of the Sierra, is very small.
Spread on the coast in a circle as 20 kilometers, extends towards the west and between strings
of hills, in a very narrow valley that cut through the Gundalhorce, small river that cuts the plain
at a short distance from the city, and Guadalmedina that divides, running laboriously through
a bed of fine sand, and it lends variable to excessive flooding by depression or wide beaches along
its banks.

The plain is a beautiful garden view from the mountains overlooking to Malaga. They not only
grow a thousand trees orchards, vineyards and all the lavish productions of the fertile Andalusia,
but harvest Cotton, snuff and much cochineal, grows and prospers sugar cane, and one might think
which is planted on a piece of African soil.

East side of the coast extends in a narrow strip of curb lines and whimsical in the direction
of Velez-Malaga and Motril. North tightening effect and dominate the complicated buttresses of the
Sierra-Nevada, and west stand thousand luminaries that bristle all the land, towards Cadiz, the
line of the Sierra de Ronda, where the most amazing geological formations as well as considerable
social curiosities.

Ronda has a reputation as a curious little town in the province of Malaga. If this has a population
of 451.406 inhabitants (the seventh in Spain in that order), its active capital is 94.289, including
their Egido. Malaga is one of the great centers of liberalism in Spain, including Madrid,
Barcelona, Seville, Cadiz and all the cities social movement. Wherever trade industry political action
or give rise to a strong social life, popular sentiment bends towards freedom and progress.
Conservatism does not have its strengths in Spain but in cities where there is immobility
and silence.

The Malaga alderredor gardens contain many very beautiful and valuable estates where cottages are
of considerable elegance, and some artistic wealth. In the Guadalhorce valley there are beautiful
sea of ??orange and lemon plantations that make remember the beauties of the Huerta de Valencia.
Consumption is incredible which makes Europe the fruit or acidic
and aromatic essences of those forests of lemon trees.

At around of orchards, gardens and farms and factories in the valley, succeed in arenas curds
cut hills of vineyards. The richness and variety of these vineyards is amazing (Compared to
the difficult terrain), because not only is a huge production white wine, red and orange,
more or less aromatic and pleasant, whose fame is universal, but get plenty of those famous
special grapes for the preparation of delicious raisins. I must say, in deference to the popular
adage, I had trouble drinking good and get good wine grapes in Malaga.

Almost a third of the city consists of new construction, in general splendid very attractive for
its many balconies and shutters or cabinets flown, green or blue, their marble floors, large iron railings,
its cheerful and its rooftop lookouts Oriental style. In the new part the streets are spacious
and clean, abundant large hotels and cafés, one can see the convenience and taste, and is not
true likeness material with the inner cities of Spain.

Alameda's famous street is a splendid promenade where abundance of giant trees, fountains, statues
and granite canapés, including two rows of elegant buildings. Likewise, the buildings that dominate
the coming spring or port, relevance, progress of taste and vitality of the maritime cities.

But the bulk of the city, old building, is an incomprehensible maze of streets at first, dark,
very narrow, usually dirty, getting some to a degree incredibly filthy. There whimsical buildings,
extravagant, Barbados any weighting, semi-Moorish, half-Spanish, whose stirring constantly moles in
tightness and squeezing without pity, a large and active population
of more heterogeneous types.

The elegant and beautiful Malaga (women are very nice there in large numbers) is spent visiting the rich
stores and fashion shops and sights, shaking with a grace inimitable the range of ebony or sandalwood
pearl ornaments and rich with graceful landscapes and seduces by the grace of his walk, but
worth rid. And no less striking for their accents and mischievous air of ... minor Malaga,
- type that mediates between the manola and grisette - dressed brightly colored cloth, bare-headed,
lively and provocative, winking Eye dangerous ability, brown and pink, plump and tempting as one of
those clusters pink ripe grapes that produce the country.

At the same time on the streets teeming swarms of workers coarse and brutal, dresses with abandonment
of seafarers of all nations, toiling commission to hunt for customers of traders worried delivered exclusively
to the fever of speculation, soldiers striped yellow, tolerably idle, road and making a racket
sutler of all the devils, some semi-nice people and bullfighters matamoros style, and urchins
all ages always abounding in the market towns, with its accompanying
large ragged beggars are inevitable in almost all Spanish cities.

Malaga The great movement not only from its strong production of wines and other items of agriculture,
significant values. Malaga is by its position and nature terrain of the province and the neighboring
port bound for Granada, Jaen and part in the regions of Cordoba, and populations that take the
side of Ronda and the Vélez-Málaga. Apart from these reasons to centralize a vast trade, Malaga
has a industrial production or manufacturing of some importance and
well mixed.

There are made silks and many red wines, some sugar, various tissues, hats, casting machines
and objects, soaps, pickles, pottery, etc.., - is working a thousand objects of art, as beautiful
fans, busts delicate plaster and other curiosities of hand - and made a huge fruit preparation
preserved and distillation. Manchester is, without doubt, the second commercial city of Spain,
Barcelona just because he is superior.

Malaga, so rich in industries, trade and strong as wine production [4] is a poor city monuments. The
only one that deserves attention, yet surrounded by sad ending and dwindling streets, now the cathedral.