 But their languages, Tomasa! What they say about things I love most in the world! This
is what hurts me, what kills me.

He sat down again, closer to the gardener to speak quietly,

- You know my past better than anyone I've told you because you inspire great confidence. Besides,
you are ready, and I guess you do not know. Visitation know what is for me and certainly not
ignore what these wretches say about it. Do not play dumb: the You know, all in the cathedral and
even outside these slanders they hear and believe.

You you're the one that you can not believe them, because you know
the truth ... But alas, I can not quite say it, I can not cry: me
prevent these habits.

And grab a handful of his cassock with clenched fingers, as if to
tear it.

It took a long silence. Don Sebastian looked down with hard eyes, contracting his hands as if to catch
the invisible enemy. Occasionally felt pangs of their illness and sighed painfully.

- Why think about such things? - Said the gardener -. It makes you bad, and this is not was necessary
to bother coming down to me. Best had been staying at the palace.

- No, you distracted me, find some comfort communicating my sorrows. Up there, I despair alone,
having to make efforts to swallow the rage. I do not want them to know my family they would be able
to laugh, do not want you to know anything my poor Visitation ... And I do not know disguise!,
I can not fake joy when I'm angry ...! What the hell I suffer! Unable to say I've been a man,
I've been weak, as I am made of flesh, and I carry the fruits of my fault, not wanting to part
with them even slander after me! Each work as she is, and I want to be good in the midst of my sins.
I could have separated from my children have abandoned them, as others to maintain their reputation
of saints, but I am a man, I am proud of it: a man with his faults and virtues, no more nor less
the generality of humans. The feeling of parenthood is so ingrained in me, so deep, you lose
before the miter to leave my children. And remember how I got when Juanito's father died, was
going through my nephew. I thought he died. A beautiful big man and a future so bright! I
had made judge, Chief Justice minister I do not know! And in twenty-four hours I die, as if
heaven would punish me.

True I have left my grandchild, but that Juanito in no way resembles his father, and I confess:
I I bit, I do not see it but a distant reflection of my poor child. In my past, that time that
was the happiest of my life, I can only Visitation. A portrait of the poor dead, I love it!
And that this petty rabble me that the mob with their slander ... There to kill them!

Dominated by the fond memories of the spring which had flourished in its early years bishop in a diocese
there Andalusian Tomasa repeated once more, his relations with certain devout lady felt since
childhood horror to the world. Devotion had gathered, but life does not soon recover its rights,
breaking through in their relationship almost mystical uniting them in carnal embrace. They
had lived faithful to each other in the mystery of church life, loving wisely scrupulous, without
the secret of their relationship transcended the public, until she
died, leaving two children.

Don Sebastian, a man of strong passions, I felt parenthood to the vehemence. Those two things
were the image of the poor dead, the I remember the one romance of a life entirely devoted to
ambition. Calumnies circulating enemies, rooted in the presence of his daughter in the archbishop's
palace, he put like crazy.

- The think my dear! - Said in a tone angry -.

My poor Visitation, so good, so affectionate, so tame for all converted into any one of these
wretches! A lover I've taken my fun for the College of noble maidens ...! As if I, old and
sick, was to think about that crap! Indecent ...!, miserable ...! For less committed many crimes
...!

- Let them say, God is high and sees us all.

- I know, but this is not enough to reassure me. You have children, Tomasa, and you know what
love them. Not only hurts us what you do against them, but what you say ... Which days I've
been suffering! As a child you know that my dream was to become what I am. Looking the throne of the
chorus and thought how good it would be him in the immense joy of being Prince of the Church.
Well, I'm on the throne. I walked half a century away stones, leaving the skin and even the meat
in the bushes of the hill. I know how I black mass exit and get to Bishop! Then ... Archbishop
am already!, And I am a cardinal!, I can not get more! So what? Happiness
always march ahead of us, as bright cloud guided the Israelites.

We see, almost touch, but not get caught.

I now feel more unhappy than at the time struggling to be something and I thought the most
unfortunate men. I have no youth: the height where I am, look at me all the looks, prevents me
defend myself. Oh, Thomas! Pity me, I'm pitiful. Being a parent, and having conceal a crime!
Wanting my daughter with a love that grows more and more as death approaches, and having to suffer
people to take this love so pure for something disgusting ...!

And the dreadful sight of Sebastian, which frightened the whole diocese, hazy with tears.

- Also, I have other pains - continued - but are farsighted man who fears the future. When I die,
all I have is for my daughter. Juanito has about his mother, who was rich, and has a career and
support my friends. Visitation will be powerful. You know that, my adversaries reproach me what
they call my greed. Greedy, no: proactive, welfare lover of mine. I saved a lot, I'm not handing
out the bread at the door of his palace, nor seek celebrity for charity. I have pastures in Extremadura,
many vineyards in La Mancha, houses, and especially the role of the state, a lot of paper. As
good Spanish I want to help the government with my money, especially
as this produces a profit.

I do not know certainly what I have: will be twenty million reais, maybe more. All saved for
me increased with good business.

I can not complain of fate, the Lord has helped me. And all Visitation for my poor! My joy
would see her married to a good man, but she does not want leave me. You like the church, and this
is my fear. Do not be surprised, Tomasa, I, Prince of the Church, I shudder to see how it comes
to devotion, and do all I can to deflect it. I like the religious woman, devoted not only found
it in the church. Women must live, must enjoy and be a mother. I've always looked bad to the
nuns.

- Leave it, sir - said the gardener -. No wonder you like the church. Mode as live, can not have
other hobbies.

- For today, I fear no evil. I am at your side, and I care not who likes dealing with nuns. But
I can die tomorrow, and just imagine how great the poor bite will visit with his millions, alone,
and with this love of religious life which others can exploit ready
...!

I seen a lot, I'm in class and I'm in the secret. There is no shortage religious orders engaged
hunting for inheritance, for the greater glory of God, they say. In addition, those out there
foreign nuns of great coif, who are lynxes for this kind of work.

It terrifies me thinking about my daughter falling. I'm from the old Catholicism, of that religion
net Spanish: Castilian Catholicism, as they say in panllevar, clean Aliens modern. It would be
sad to have spent my life saving, to fatten the Jesuits or those sisters who can not speak
in Castilian.

I want my money not suffer the same fate The sexton of the adagio. Therefore, the troubles of
my fight with the enemy mob joins the pain it causes the weak character
of my daughter.

Perhaps the hunt, and a rascal is fun of me taking over my money.

And excited by his dark thoughts, gave a pure and obscene interjection, I remember of his time
as a soldier. In the presence of the gardener, had no reason to hold back. The old was used to the
outbursts of his character.

- Let's see - he said desperately, after a long silence -. You know me better nobody: I'm as
bad as supposed enemies? Do I deserve that God will punish me for my faults? You are a good soul,
simple and good, and you know more about this with your instinct all doctors in Theology.

- Do you mean, Mr. Sebastian? Jesus ...! You are a man like any other, neither more nor less. Perhaps
better than most, it is simple, all in one piece, without deception
or hypocrisy.

- A man: You have said.

I am a man like everyone else. We reach a certain height we are like saints in the church facades.
Below, are admired for their beauty, viewed closely, a horror by the ugliness of the stone gnawed
by time. As much as we try to sanctify us, putting us at a distance, we are but men weak flesh
beings to those around us. In the church are few and those get rid of human passions. And who
knows if even those few do not feel privileged bitten by the demon of vanity, and the extreme
asceticism of his life, they think seen the glory of the altars ...! The priest who manages to
dominate the meat falls into greed, which is the ecclesiastic service excellence. I've never
treasured by service, I have saved for mine, never for me.

The prelate was silent a long time, but in his irresistible desire to confess to the simple
woman continued

- I'm sure God will not despise me when my time comes.

His infinite mercy is above all the littleness of life. What is my
crime?

Having loved a woman as my father loved my mother, have children, as were apostles and saints.
So what? The ecclesiastical celibacy is an invention of men, a detail of agreed discipline councils,
but the flesh and their demands are many centuries earlier, dating from Paradise. Whoever breaks
this barrier, not vice, but irresistible passion, because it can not overcome the impulse to
create a family and have a companion, that certainly needed to Church law, but disobeys God ....
Approaching death, I have fear. Many nights doubt and tremble like a child .... I have served
God in my way. At other times he had defended with the sword, fighting heretics, now I'm your priest,
and He battled every time I see the wickedness of the times curtail
some of its glory.

The Lord forgive me, receiving me in his bosom.

You who are so good, Tomasa, and you have a soul of an angel under your bark rough, do not you
think so ...?

The gardener smiled, and his words pierced the silence slowly dying
afternoon.

- Calm down, Mr. Sebastian.

I have seen many saints in this house worth less than you. To ensure their salvation had abandoned
the children. To maintain what they call the purity of the soul would have denied the family.
Believe you me, come here not saints; men, all men. No regret having followed the impulse of the
heart. God made us in His image and likeness, and gave us some sense of the family. Moreover,
chastity, celibacy and other trifles, which you invented to distinguish from ordinary people.
Whether you are a man, Don Sebastian, the more it is, will be more
good and better will welcome the Lord in his glory.

IX

Corpus few days after a morning Don Antolin was in search of Gabriel. Silver Stick Luna smiled, talking
with a patronizing air.

He had thought about him all night. It hurt him inactive, walking in the cloister. Lack occupation
was what inspired those ideas as evil.

- Let's see - he said -: "I should be down with me every evening at the Cathedral to teach Treasury
and other treasures?

Many foreigners come to understand only if left when asked. You know its language, know the
French, I do not know how many languages more, according to your brother. The cathedral may prove
to win a lot of these foreign having an interpreter available, you'd do us a favor and do not lose
anything. Always is entertainment to see new faces. As a reward ....

Don Antolin stop there, scratching his head under the bonnet. Would be to scratch something of
funds Obrería, if it was not possible at first, being weak and drained income of the Primacy,
as would be provided later. And waited with anxious eyes the answer Gabriel. He showed himself satisfied.
At the end was a guest of the cathedral, and something should. And since that afternoon down
to the temple choir when to teach foreign riches of the church.

Never missing passengers, displaying color confetti Don Antolin, expected Time to admire the
jewelry. Silver Stick not seen a foreigner who does not imagine I was a lord or a duke, wondering
many times their clumsiness in dress. For him, only the great of the earth could afford the pleasure
of traveling, and opened some eyes shocked and incredulous when Gabriel said that many of these
people were shoemakers in London or Paris shopkeepers were given
in the holiday gift of a trip by former country of the Moors.

The ships moved through five canons to surplices chorus, each with
a key hand.

They were the guardians of the Treasury. Opened every lock in their custody, heavily spun and
left the door open the chapel with its ancient treasures. In large displays, like a museum,
displaying the old opulence of the cathedral silver images massive, huge balloons topped by graceful
figurines, all of precious metal; chests complicated task ivory, gold and virile custody; huge
golden plates and embossed, mythological scenes came back to life the joy of paganism in that
sordid spot dusty Christian church. Gemstones extended their range of colors pectoral turbans
and robes of the Virgin. Diamonds were so huge that cast doubt on its authenticity, pebble-sized
emeralds, amethysts, topaz and pearls, many pearls, hundreds, thousands,
dropping like hail on the garments of the Virgin, The strangers were
astonished before this opulence, dazzled by its sheer size, while
Gabriel, accustomed to visiting Daily, I looked around coldly.

The Treasury had an air of sad disrepair. Riches had aged with the cathedral. The shining
diamonds, gold seemed tarnished and dusty, The blackened silver, pearls were dull and dead.
The smoke from the candles and stale atmosphere of the temple had
skated all sadly.

"The Church - was said Gabriel - ages it touches. The wealth lost the sparkle in her hands,
as jewels that fall into the hands of usurers.

The diamond is blurred within the big greedy, the most beautiful picture turns black on their
altars. "

After the visit to the Treasury came Ochavo display, the octagonal
chapel of marbles dark pantheon of relics where most disgusting human
remains, the skulls horrible laughter, arms, and vertebrae decayed
mummies were displayed in silver vessels and gold.

The piety of other ages, credulous and rude, seemed so absurd when viewed in full century of
disbelief, that the same Don Antolin, so intransigent talking about the glories its cathedral,
the voice and hurried down the ratio to mark the holy mantle piece Leocadia when it "appeared"
to the Archbishop of Toledo, realizing how difficult it was to explain what fabric is wearing the
apparitions.

Gabriel faithfully translated explanation of Silver Stick, stressing many times ironical gravity,
while the canons who were escorting the convoy of foreigners alejábanse vaguely steps to avoid
questions.
A phlegmatic English interpreter interrupted one day:

- What you
do not have any feather wings of St. Michael?

- No, sir, and shame
- Luna replied with equal seriousness -. But you find it another cathedral.
We can not have it all.

In the Chapter House, a mixture of Moorish
and gothic architecture, visitors admired the double Toledo archbishops
row painted on the wall with miters and golden staffs. Gabriel called
Don Cerebruno attention, the medieval prelate, named for its huge
head. But The wardrobe was so great astonishment produced on outsiders.

It
was a great piece with shelves and cupboards of old wood. Above those,
the walls were covered with large dusty and broken tables, copies
of Flemish painting that the council had been relegated to one corner.
On the shelves were lined with old chairs of the house: one Spanish,
austere, straight lines, with frayed rapacejos; other Greek form,
with curved legs and ivory inlays. Layers, and vestments are piled
on the shelves for classification of tones, with the cape out of the
heap for they could admire the wonders of embroidery. A world of living
with figurines color strength in a few inches of fabric. The amazing
art of ancient embroidery gave the appearance of life silk painting.
The hood and strips of a layer enough to play all scenes of Biblical
creation or the Passion of Jesus