 Probably in those days were called alog those lands, and the name, outdated
and obsolete in today's Tagalog, has been only in Pangasinan.

The Indians who inhabited the highlands as today called taga-Bukit (bukit 'land high) and the mountains
taga-bundok (bundok, "the mountain"). In the lagoon itself, the inhabitants its banks were known by
the name of taga-Doong, so people also called of the plain. Doong
means' pier, place, or cuddle shore where boats.

"

While in Manila called taga-bundok to the Highlanders, in Laguna knew they by Tinguianes.

I had read some authors hit the floor ting, noting the difference the language that existed
between the inhabitants of the Ting and valleys. Undoubtedly wanted once say 'mountain', and that
meaning, lost today in Tagalog, there is still Malay. Looking for references to this voice,
I found the following in the Words of Fr Santos: "The Ting are from the mountains of San Pablo
by Nagcarlan to Calaylayan, where he was Header formerly Tayabas, and then run the hills of Cabinti
up Ulinguling, that is top of Mabitac. "A few lines before he said:" The Ting own or woodlands
which leaves no doubt as to the significance attached to this voice.

From left Tinguian tingui formed with its fixed an serving here to name people.

The inhabitants of the province now called Batangas not initially
called Tagalog.

Fr San Agustin, in his History, says (p. 424): "Speak Tagalog language, which calls Comintana,
all that land by province called COMINT.

"

We can not find the etymology of COMINT, but look the other names that we statement with the
prefix taga.

Tagabawa is the name given to the mestizo means Bagobos, Manobo and tagakaolos that by Montano,
are scattered on both sides of the gulf of Davao (Mindanao) near Son River. Bawa means "below
the bottom", referring no doubt to river because those who live upriver from the same region
are called taga-Kaol being the meaning of ka-olo, "part towards the
head, or the origin of the river."

In Mindanao, known also the tagabaloy, a name which may be a variant
of tagabeli and tagabulu, probably originated from the name of Laguna
Bulu-an, but here we would enter in the realm of hypothesis, because
we lack (and I speak personally for me), news topographic and linguists
firm enough to talk about things in Mindanao.

We know that in the language of many of those tribes in the Bagobos, for example, taga prefix
has the same meaning as in Tagalog and wider still, because there is significance of man who
possesses or has this or that object, preceded by the prefix.

On the island of Paragua, Palawan or live on the coast Moors who came from Jolo and Mindanao and within
some indigenous idolaters, considered Aboriginal struggle with the sea and who call themselves
Tagbanuas. Banu, the voice of Polynesian origin (fenua, "land") means
in most of the Visayan languages ??"land, country and population also."

       Clearly Tagbanúas is understood that means "man of the country" or
in other words, "Indians."

On the island of Panay was formerly called and also tagubanua tagolabon
banuanon and a god who, they said, lived in the fields and woods.

We should note that in this name see linguists two procedures: the first is used as the Tagalog,
using the affix taga, and the second form with the suffix non Bikol has the same meaning.

* * * * *

Prefix I.

Almost all compounds with the kennel name I belong to most hill tribes Northern Luzon are: Ibalibon,
Ibilaw, Ifugaw, Igorots (Igolot) Ilongot, Isinay, Iraya, Italon, Itawe. Ilokano é Ibanag that
inhabit the plains, the Ibalon in South Luzon and The Idan in Paragua.

To find their etymologies will resort to the language spoken by the kagayanes, the Ilokano and gaddanes
that are most important to that region.

The prefix I in Ibanag, a language spoken by the indigenous civilizations that inhabited the regions
Call Cagayan and Isabela, has the same meaning as in Tagalog taga. Says P. Splendor Cave in
grammar Ibanag that 'prefixed to the names of provinces, kingdoms and towns, a patrician names:
eg Ilal-loc, Lal-loc man, I Spain, a man of Spain.

"

Ibanag the same name, means "inhabitant of Banaga," which is the name of the river called Grande
de Cagayan. Originally called Ibanag to the inhabitants of the shores of that Aparry river from which
population is nearby the sea, to the region called disseminate, and more properly from Aparri
to Takalawa, a district of Lalo, to Gataran.

Based on this principle, let us see the etymology of the other names mentioned, noting that, as
we know them today in its Spanish form, we begin by deprive them of the foreign elements that appear
in your build, to consider only an indigenous form.

The italones (italon) lived in the ancient forests that extend to the northeast tip of Pampanga,
being now in the mountains of Nueva Vizcaya and Principe. Language Gadda, heel means "mountain"
in what follows that italon means "mountain." Comes in support of this interpretation of Itaú
supply faucets, strictly itaw depriving them of the termination indicating plural is Castilian,
which is the name of some infidels living in the plains adjacent to the above. In Gadda, voice
taw means "sowing."

Iday, said Blumentritt, which is the name of a dialect of Negritos of Cagayan, however, is but
a variant called Iraya with a tribe of savages, apparently mixed the Negritos and Malays, who
live south of the Kalataganes on the western side of the mountain range Palawan. Daya, Raya or Saya
means "East" and "South" in several languages N. region of Luzon, but in this case, refers to
E. because, although we know that they are to S. of kalataganes is not the topographical relationship
to these giving them the name but their situation with respect to the Itetapanes. Here are
some Montagnards living in the O. of Isabela de Luzon, west of the Iday and the name says so, because
in Ibanag, Telapan Tatalapan and means the 'West'. The Katalanganes are the same men who Iraya speak
the language these and its name comes from the river on whose banks they inhabit, name which, in
turn, is derived from Talang, a pine species in those sites grows in abundance.

Commonly called Igorots the savages who inhabit the mountains of Luzon
and even other islands, but in the ancient chronicles Filipino known
only to that name Igolot or rather, in true Indian form, the infidels
living in Benguet and nearby Mount Sto.

Thomas. Now understood to also appoint the bloodthirsty savages North of Luzon, but the German
ethnographer Hans Meyer and then Dr. Schadenberg, say should only be so called infidels who inhabit
Benguet and Lepanto. The fact is that Tinguian same as the voice Igorot in the Philippines
is used as synonymous with "savage mountain." This name means the same as Tinguian 'quiet'
in Tagalog root Golota, who composes, means "mountain range" and though this voice is not the
only dictionary Ibanag that form there, you can not say why that
was not known in that language, as known in ancient tinguished voice
in Tagalog.

It's called a dialect spoken inibaloy by the Igorots and this voice, in Ilocano, simply means "language
of foreigners."

The so-called infidels Isinays are about living in the western part of the Nueva Vizcaya also
known by the name of Ituyes by province formerly called the county Ituy they inhabit. Its etymology
does not seem very clear: sina, in Ilocano means "segregation separation
of persons' voice that I find acceptable as a radical of the name
of tribe when you consider that one of them is called Ilongot longot
formed a word that in Ilocano means "meeting, assembly, aggregation
of people."

These same Ilongots, customs and bloodthirsty savages who inhabit the regions bordering the provinces
of Nueva Vizcaya, Isabela and Principe, are also called ibilaos, (Indigenous form is ibilaw),
whose etymology, try as I have done, is for me complete darkness. The italones that we mentioned
before, are of the same tribe race: at least Dominican missionaries
say the peoples italones New High Ecija, belong to the ibilaos and
these are also known by the name of Ilongot.

Another large tribe of Malay race who lived in the mountains of Nueva Vizcaya and Isabela, is Ifugaw
call that appears to be one of the most ancient of Luzon, whose etymology
is explained the Ibanag where we see that iafugw means "island."

Today, all of that race, forming groups called silipanes, quianganes, Mayoyao and bungianes (names
topographic) have been re-concentrated to form the villages and towns of the command of Qiang.

Is
known to yogades (yogad) or to a montañeces gaddañes currently living on the slopes of the Cordillera
Central, the western boundary of the province of Isabela, from the left bank of the Magat River,
river end of the Mercedes, to the jurisdiction Christian peoples Itawes.

The etymology of both names gives us Ibanag language resembles both Gadda, resulting Gadd and yogad
that have the same meaning and origin, only the first is the name
of second place and the tribe.

Both radical derived from gad ugad whose oldest form, there also in Ibanag and means "sowing
high." This root, followed by the suffix an, means "Instead of sowing high" as we saw payaw meant
"low sowing or irrigation." The inhabitants of Gadda, called today so this place name, met in
the old by personal names, which is formed with the prefix yogad i know the meaning of which and
the radical equal to gad ugad we have examined.

Have failed my research on the etymology of other names such as some suppose ILOKO Influenced
by the analogy, derived from ilog 'dweller river, "without noting that the radical referred to
ends with g, and examined by voice k: i also the word ilog, river,
not as in ILOKO, a prefix, but an integral part radical.

I can not say anything about Ibalon, the old name that was given
to the people of Camarines.

Ilamut, Igorot tribe that resides in the mountains located between
Nueva Vizcaya and Benguet, radical seems formed lamut Gadda, "mixture",
meaning perhaps mestizo is etymology only probable.

       

Iday is variable yraya already examined.

Ilan, Illanes, lanos, wool, malanao are names given to certain people
pirates the coast of Mindanao.

Are different forms of composition of wool or lanun name radical geographical part of that
island.

* * * * *

Ma Prefix

In almost all Philippine languages ??contraction May or ma or me is
a prefix meaning 'Have, possess.

" With him are adjectives. Putian, white radical, it is maputi, "that is white ", ie white tamis
matamís of having or has sweetness," sweet. "

There is thus an infinite number of names that have been applied after the inhabitants of Instead,
as Maguindanaw, Malanaw Mamanuas, &. &.

Maguindanaw is the indigenous name of the island of Mindanao or rather, only part of it. Its inhabitants
are called the same way. Continued Danaw, water and lagoon, and applied this name to this region
around the great lake of Danaw.

For the Moors called Illanes, Ilan Malanaw are also referred to, has the same derivation that Maguindanaw:
lanaw, danaw variant, and the voice Illan, strictly speaking Ilan has the same i affix origin,
used more in the languages ??of the north of the archipelago.

The mamanuas are some infidels who inhabit the Surigao peninsula and
the shores of Lake of Mainit (Mindanao).

Fr Jaime Planas Jesuit calls them "black natives of Mindanao" view identical to that of the
Jesuit PJB Heras confirmed by the French ethnographer Mr. Montano. The etymology comes to corroborate
this view, showing that the name of those black boys Banu is derived
from land, country; mamanua "inhabitants of the country" with a phonetic
transformation of b in m.

A mountain tribe of infidels in the interior
of Mindanao, whose district is not known to me accuracy, or mananapes
mananap called in Spanish form.

Language of Bagobos, mananap means "beast, animal" thus explains the concept of these neighbors have
those in the same island called Manobo, Bagobo voice that means "man."

These Manobo are Malay and inhabit the Agusan River Basin from Moncayo to Butuan: also found in
other sites on the island mainly at Cape San Agustin in east coast of Davao and the island of
Sarangani Tumanao or the East. Also is named to the other idolatrous infidels in Mindanao, and is
easy to understand that this term embraces distant tribes to be so widespread and attending
to what it really means.

The Jesuit Father Pastells talks about mangu called infidels living in or mangulangan the proximity
of Cateel (Mindanao) and the upper river Salug. Its name means "men or inhabitants of the jungle.
"

A faithless people inside the island of Mindoro are called Manguianes. In Tagalog, Bicol and
Visayan, Manguier means "savage, wild, black infidels", so that the
use of this word is common to a great number of Filipinos, but, however,
has only been applied to certain inhabitants of Mindoro.

       Originally, no doubt, the name was given only to the that today carry
on that island, but its use in three Philippine languages ??shows
that ngian radical in all these languages ??have a sense now forgotten.

Still exists in Pampanga this radical and means "old", so that we
can deduce that is name mangia applied to men considered old settlers
and as such pushed into by modern invaders in their own language were
called "old."

As it turned out later that newcomers were or were more civilized than the vanquished pushed into
or to the mountains, consider these as feral or wild and appeal made by former extension of this
new meaning. So it is with the voice Tagbanúas, whose etymology we have clarified, "Natural
country", that being the name of infidel Rangers today means "savages
Paragua "simply because the idea of ??'wild' replaces the old meaning
voice that was lost with many others.

* * * * *

Ka affix and suffix W

It is common to almost all Philippine languages ??form adjectives and nouns with the procedure
prefixed to the root of the prefix ka and postpone an.

Names regularly and compounds are referring to place and these have been applied after its inhabitants.
This is true Cagayan, Kalagan, Kalibugan, Katalangan, Katubagan and many others.

Other ways.

Just as we have seen the names applied indiscriminately Tinguian Igorot and the Infidels that inhabit
the mountains, so we found in northern Luzon as usually the name
Kalinga applied to the mountain people of that region, we read in
the writings of the friars report them with the voice of the Calinguismo.

Some tribes are given to each other and the name of Kalinga The reason is simple: in almost all
those dialects SIGIF "enemy", and as the main occupation of these savages is a constant struggle
of one tribe to another is clear that all called with the same voice:
"enemy", Kalinga.

Non suffix used in Bicol and Visayan as taga also
in Tagalog, and so we called buquidnon to a Malay race infidels who
inhabit the eastern tip of the district of Misamis and the Spanish
call wild is really the translation of that name filipino lead. Farmers
are being called in Visayan banuahanon Banu, "land, country."

The
Mindanao tirurays call themselves etew rootor, "people upstairs" (the
river), etew dawa 'people down, "the plain, the slopes of the rivers,
etew dogot," seafarer " the coast and etew tuduk, the Highlanders.

The
lack of vocabulary of all Filipino dialects I can fruitfully follow
full etymological study of the names of races or tribes, but with
this we see that all have the same or identical training