 Have not found the astrologers in the blue vault star before never seen, and
have not recognized that star Parsondes soul?

- That is true, "replied the king, but I have come to find out, by disclosing some Nanar Babylonians
disgruntled gentlemen, it, furious that claimed Parsondes against him, seven years has sent
emissaries to all parties to secretly take him and taken to his palace,
and there must be Parsondes, or dead, or suffering horrible torments.

-
Ah, sir!

I cried to the point, prostrate at the feet of the King, it is just an evil revenge dreadful.
Allow me to be the instrument of your revenge, and save my dear teacher the captivity in which, if
not dead, is.

The King told me that to this end had called me, and immediately prepare to leave with me the
support due, and his strict orders to answer me with your Nanar life
of the holy man, or his release.

That same day, which was one of the hottest of summer, I went to Susa in a chariot Arab drawn by
four horses. A skilled driver was addressed, and two Ethiopian slaves also accompanied me in
the car, with air on one with an ostrich feather fan, and holding the other on rich ivory varal,
neatly styled, the wide umbrella silk. Four riders, all quivers, bows and arrows, clothing and
covered mesh head with individual bronze helmets, gleaming colors Niel, I followed and gave me greater
authority and decorum. Six scouts, mounted zebra striped and lightning-fast, went before me, to
advertise in the various populations.

Victuals and drink that we brought to supplement the shortcomings of the way, came on the backs
of twenty powerful elephants.

Not to be too wordy, not referring here minutely the events of my trip. Suffice to know that
the tenth day we discovered in the distance the huge walls of Babylon, Nebuchadnezzar work and
Nitocris. They were thirty yards in thickness, surrounding the city, forming a zone twenty-two
leagues of circumnavigation, and rose, at the lowest hundred and twenty yards above the earth as
much as the bells of the cathedrals now. Crowned by a tuft of green walls. They were hanging
garden. On the walls and gardens stood out some buildings such as royal palaces, the temple of Belus
and the famous tower of Nimrod, which consisted eight-story, more than two hundred yards high
first. From the top of this tower, it seemed to touch the sky, presumed to treat the gods
sages, secret intelligences or spirits that move the stars. Although still far apart, and confusedly,
thought and to perceive the colossal figures carved and painted on exterior walls of palaces
and temples, those man-headed bulls and men with head lion, those heroes and those warriors, tight
girdles kidneys, that is Oliba Oala and fell in love. The sun reflected from the East on the
gigantic buildings and huge hundred gates of the city, which were of gilt bronze. The glow
given off dazzled eyes. The Euphrates and Tigris, winding and also
injured by lightning the sun shimmered in waves, resembled two gold
ribbons melt forming a loop.

The beaters had gone ahead to announce my arrival. Suddenly we saw up in the broad, fertile
plain between the orchards, gardens and green woods, where it was open the road, a white cloud
which went bigger. Then we saw a dark stain that moving towards us. Soon after came at a run
one of my scouts told me that Nanar approached to greet me with large party. In this dark spot
had enlarged exceedingly, and began to hear distinctly the sound of musical instruments, the
neighing of horses and the clatter of weapons. We note, finally,
the glow of gold and silver, luxury clothes and the magnificence of
those who came to greet us