 The high lords of the government were on a stage along the path for reaching
the prisoner, having behind him the whole neighborhood of the capital, a so huge crowd was
out of sight. These powerful people received him with great consideration samples that did not
correspond to his humble rank of professor. Made to them the highest praise of the intellectual
giant of a gentleman, different statements all giants who arrived before the country. Suggested
the desirability of saving for a long time to know, thanks to its culture, progress in the world
of monstrous men, and copy what is profitable, if they really had something worthy of imitation, what
seemed problematic.

- It is a pity that this man-mountain is not a woman ....

The representatives
of the Council looked forward to Flimnap after his last words, appreciating
merit as a teacher who had vegetated unjustly forgotten, and which
should henceforth its high protection.

Also praised the likes of the rector, powerful character whose advice were always heard by the lords
of the Executive.

The Father of the Masters - for that was his honorary title - like
many of the poets and until he wrote poems when he was not worried
about his historical findings.

All Republic writers praised his poetry as inimitable works, being such praise the surest way
to achieve good employment in public education.

Seeing him on stage Flimnap the lords of the government, hastened
to break the news that the giant was also a poet, although "his way"
with all the rudeness and stupidity of their sex, but added that,
notwithstanding such defects, characteristic of its origin, it seemed
possess some talent.

- Oh Father of the Masters! - He said -.

Tomorrow I will have the honor to give a translation done in our language of the verses that
I found in the pocket book Gentleman-Mountain. It would be regrettable that the high lords
of the Council decide his death. My taste would translate English some of the immortal works of
our wonderful Father of the Masters, for that poor giant finds out
that our poetry has reached a height never know He, however the material
greatness of his body.

Father smiled modestly Masters, but the smile gave the teacher safety that the giant's life was insured
and it would have the opportunity to read the verses of rector translated into English.

Then Flimnap recommended to all occupants of the government stand
that looking ahead to monster through the lens of decline that had
brought a fellow of the University, Professor Physics, as well could
appreciate him as he was.

Entering the next day at the office of chief of the government monthly,
saw with joy Dr. Momar, the Father of the Masters, was talking to
the chief magistrate.

Flimnap, prior report to the president of all his works, he had offered several sheets Momar paper
with the translation of the verses of Gillespie. The Father of the Masters, standing before
round eye glasses, began reading beside a window.

When he finished his Flimnap report on the work to install the giant approached the university
character keeping the papers in his right hand.

- Something Light - said with a disdainful severity -. Verses are unquestionably man and huge man.
But it would be unfair to deny some inspiration, and I even dare say here among us will learn
much, if it comes to exercising in the national language.

- For this, O Father of the Masters! - Flimnap said - it will be necessary for the poor giant
alive.

- My opinion is that it must live - interrupted the president -.

My wife and my children found it very nice yesterday to see him enter the city. A son of mine, who
is the Air Force and riding a machine that took him, told me it really funny things. All Boys
government Guard also find it very pleasant, and even some say it is beautiful .... Did you have
a good idea, Professor Flimnap, advising him reduction lens sights .... I would argue that we should
let him live, if only for a short time. It will be expensive, but the Republic can afford this
luxury, as well as rare animals kept at their zoo. And you what do you think of this, Momar illustrious
friend?

The Father of the Masters, convinced that the chief minister was infallible
less than his words, saying only slowly:

- I feel the same.

- Then
- continued the President - if you state that opinion to my fellow
Council much respect as all the high wisdom, the life of the giant
remains safe.

Professor Flimnap, anxious to conceal his pleasure at producing these
words, hastened to request came from the two high officials to leave
the room.

Came up it a growing murmur of the crowd. The great courtyard of the palace should be already full
of guests. A military music sounded incessantly.

Flimnap escaped by some unfrequented halls, fearing trip with reporters, it lagged behind him
since the day before asking fresh news. Two daily the capital, scandals always rivals, published every
three hours is an issue with details new on the man-mountain and
customs, poor putting in the words of wisdom lies and nonsense that
made him roar of indignation.

One of the newspapers defended the appropriateness respect the life of the giant, and this had
been enough to counter the publication required immediate death, believing that such a tremendous
greed would eventually plunge guest shortages in the country, being the cause of thousands and thousands
of countrymen starve.

The teacher hated equally to the two newspapers and other publications, who sent the editors behind
him as if they were dogs chasing a frightened deer.

Eager to go unnoticed, went up to the upper floors in hopes of finding a seat in the galleries
overlooking the courtyard, and were occupied this morning by the
wives and daughters of all the characters of the Republic.

His well-educated woman gallantry compelled him to stand, to avoid
depriving seat to the male weaklings and long robe and large cloak
who had come to witness the party.

The glory of the teacher was accompanied by a new vision of existence. Never Life had seemed
so beautiful and attractive. All those bearded Midwives something hairy arms and severe and aristocratic,
with the majesty of the mother could not know the reason he had avoided until then the sweetness
and pleasures of social life. No one could tell in his person the famous professor Flimnap,
so praised by all the newspapers. Then he did report that in the morning the major newspapers
had published his picture, and tried to hide her face whenever a man drew back the veil to
him with vague curiosity.

It was reassuring to note that the ladies were set out in the back of the courtyard, occupied only
by women.

Warriors Guard, always with one hand on the handle the sword and the other stroking his curly
hair, looking upwards, smiling to the girls, excited with their garlands of flowers and veils.
Some of them, already considered of marriageable age for having pointed out the beard, answering
these looks with winks, equivalent to loving phrases to avoid being seen by the grim matrons
sitting beside her. This show is frivolous, that a day earlier would have been scorned by Flimnap,
now moved him with deep feelings of tenderness.

- Oh, love! ... Love! - Whispered the sage.

Life is beautiful, and he acknowledged that sweetness and mystery
keeps unsuspected by the University.

To overcome this feeling unwelcome, it was setting on the characters that filled the courtyard.
A stand still desert, was for the Executive Council, Ministers and other dignitaries. In other
courtrooms, almost full, were parents and spouses of all the ladies filled the galleries. Flimnap
knew many of the pictures appeared in newspapers. MPs were characters,
famous because of his speeches.

Some had belonged Executive Council and wished to return to him, appealing to all sorts of intrigues
to get it.

Driven by curiosity and the comments of several bearded ladies, the teacher finally fixed in
one of the women who occupied the dais of the Senate. Was Gurdilo, the famous chief of opposition
to the current government: a high female, devoid of meat, with skin countersunk as if on a
leash, and a thick, strained tendons that were marked in the neck,
arms and other visible parts of your body.

The sharp eyes were fixed and imperious, and his gesture was sour, as eternally angry person
against everything that is not his work.

The professor, who to live devoted to his rare and profound studies gave little attention to current
issues, had not noticed this character ever, but now looked with great interest. Divined in
him an enemy of the Gentleman-Mountain.

Sufficient if the government Edwin decided to pardon for Gurdilo advised his death, as if it
depended national happiness. In addition, the newspaper calling for the abolition of man-mountain
had already reproduced in one of the issues some disturbing words of the redoubtable leader
of the opposition.

The teacher saw how violently waving his arms when talking to his fellow Senate while he frowned
and twisted his mouth in a gesture of severely shocked. This made him believe that the ceremony was
protesting this, that the poor giant had been brought to the capital,
in short, everything made by the Executive Board and as thinking to
do.

But the teacher's observations were suddenly interrupted by the principle of the ceremony. Military
music, still playing in the yard, was deafened by the beating a large drum band approaching coming
from inside the palace.

The high and mighty lords of the Executive Council could only be presented in ceremonies Officers
surrounded by great pomp.

They entered the courtyard the drums, which were about thirty, and behind them the same number
of trumpeters. Then the army marched an army line, I mean those girls fins hulled Gillespie
had seen the awakening. The soldiers were armed, some others with bows and halberds. After the
guards passed sword carrier, bringing with tip up and supported by his two hands locked on his chest
a huge Claymore as well as shining like silver.

From the time of the Empire was still absurdly ostentatious ceremonial that surround despots.
Several small page spent moving high white feather fans for no insects come to molest the five
supreme magistrates of the republic. After they were marching one by one, but not on foot,
but in five litters carried on shoulders for children of influential
people, for that honor represented the beginning of a great career
administrative.

The girls carry the berths were then sent to Council govern a distant province.

Also passed the bunks of the chairmen of the Senate and House of Representatives, and then the
Rector of the University, which was shaped like an owl and was carried
to arms by four assistant teachers.

Finally, bringing up the rear, but on foot, ministers, senior officials and government Guard
detachment with long spears.

When the five Executive Council and the Father of the Masters with their respective entourages were
installed on the platform of honor, ceased to sound the trumpets, drums and music becoming a
long silence. I was about to begin the parade of the wonderful things that were Luggage Man-Mountain.

A
senior official of the Ministry of Justice, which depended all notaries nation, advanced to a spokesman
in one hand and manifest in another paper that contained the explanations
given by Dr. Flimnap, having translated the labels many objects belonging
to the giant.

These explanations often pulled long Pygmy laughter to the crowd, I felt pity for the ignorance
and rudeness of colossus. At other times, the big contest was in deep silence, as if everyone,
to the vacillations of the inventory, seek a solution to explain the usefulness of the object
mysterious.

What we all realized, thanks to the teacher's explanations in English, was content and the use
of towers bright as silver, which were placed through the patio each on a motor vehicle. These towers
had covered the whole side of their round edges with a paper poster, which was traced mysterious
signs, about the size of a person.

Flimnap science had been able to unravel this mystery, thanks to the
interpretation of signs.

Cans were. But although the translator had not served scientists, the subtle smell of those
pygmies would have discovered the enormous content cylinders, notwithstanding that they were tightly
closed. For olfactory acuity, metal let in almost irresistible smells so intense. All aspired
to force the environment, from the five heads of government to the little page holder fans.

The passage of each tower was greeted with a dazzling general cry: "This is meat !...» Shortly after
they said in chorus: "This is tomato !...» After a few minutes, they said loudly: "Now is
peas!" And all were amazed that a figure to be in person, even if a colossus, could feed those
matters which spread an unbearable stench to them, almost equal to that complaint putrefaction.

Desiring
to remove as soon as this general discomfort, parade organizers did
appear in the yard to a score of naked slaves, carrying between them
some slack and rigid, a carpet square, white, soft blue with a border,
and holding in one corner a hieroglyph embroidery, which, according
to the statement Flimnap teacher, consisted of letters intertwined.

Here science university in light extended digression to explain to his countrymen the existence
of tissue between the man-mountain, the inconsistent use and give you things unpleasant to have
in him.

But, as always happens in the great feasts, the public did not pay attention to the explanations
of the scientist, preferring to examine directly what they had before their eyes.

A fragrance garden that seemed to come from afar began to spread around the yard, making forget
the stench exhaled from thick silver towers. The women and girls of galleries stirred fluid
with pleasure that essentially unknown.

Moms were talking them, looking for similarities and similarities with the perfumes of fashion
among males. Some focused their attention in order to explain in the same day to the perfumers
of capital the rare essence of man-mountain, and that the factory, at whatever cost.

Then came more servants bare arm leading to new objects. Six of them held as an overwhelming
weight, the notebook whose leaves had translated Flimnap. Then another Athletes came, rolling on
the floor, just as if they were drums, several metal disks, large, flat and out of round, found
in the pockets of the giant.

These discs were of different sizes and metals, taking all the limelight on both faces huge
bust of a woman and a bird of prey with outspread wings. According to the explanation Flimnap
the sage, served in the country of the man-mountain as signs of change, and were all included
under the general title of "currency."

Some were silver, and only reaches the knees bent athletic servant on them for rolling. Others were
of copper, and a little more or less the same size. The audience, somewhat bored by these objects
without interest, only showed some curiosity to see four disks each driven by two men. Of such
discs came almost to the waist their guides, and they were solid gold, having for the relief decoration
of a great eagle with wings and a shield with stripes and stars.

He returned to wane the interest while other slaves were marching
in pairs.

Two men had between them, just as if it were a poster announcing, a strip of printed paper much longer
than high. All these posters had a layer of grease and dirt, in the the microscopic view of the pygmies
saw stirrings tiny monsters of the microbial world.

The papers were adorned with portraits of men, completely unknown Mountains Professor Flimnap.
They all sported the word "bank" and a number followed by the word dollar.

The learned professor dared to issue its report, the theory that such papers may represent something
akin to the currency, but could not understand how it works and its
usefulness, and strange also that people would accept that instead
of the metal discs.

Neither the public was set much in such explanations. They wanted all that ended as before the
parade of banners greasy.

Among the delicate creatures that inhabited the upper galleries were
some attempts at fainting.

Midwives took out their vials of salts to revive the nose sore. On the stand of the senators
heard the voice of terrible Gurdilo.

- Only an inferior humanity - shouted - may carry in their pockets like crap. Do not think
they have hard-Mountain Men, if they are in common sense, to acquire such contamination. This
should be just a habit, a bad habit of the giant that has been to
disturb us with his presence.

But an emerging public unrest deleted, imposing silence on the tribune.
Several men of force advanced on his shoulders a sort of square box
and very flat. It looked like silver, and on its upper surface was
recorded as a hieroglyph that adorned one end of the handkerchief.

Professor
Flimnap know what was inside this huge box. He had not believed allowed
to violate their confidentiality. The head of the mechanics of the
air fleet was there with several of his assistants to open the hood,
whose closure had studied all morning.

Slaves placed the box on the
ground vertically, while the engineer and his acolytes began to struggle
in the lock, to no avail. Inadvertently given a hammer an outgoing
edge made the two big silver valves be opened at once, as a giant
shell, launching a cash crunch