 There
was no man more sweet, more harmless in its treatment. Never heard him speak ill of anyone.
Those who always see the black part of the things of this world and the downside of the characters
that are being increasingly unfortunately, argued that if no murmur was because I knew it was
so good because I could not be otherwise. As if there were evil fools! A defect Moro was the son
of his own fans. It was considered unbeatable in all games to was involved. You could not
deny great skill in them, but here is not to be rival far away, and Moro's saved. From this
came the neat, timeless comments every game that season, and had already become proverbial
in Lancia. Gave a Tacaza in the pool. The balls are not rolling as proposed. Put his hand to his
head desperately.

- A little less of a ball, and mine had gone through the forms! ... But I was forced to take a
lot of ball, came down to Ming, because if not lower Dominic, you know? he me villa and it gets
into house ... And to me it does not suit me!

If the bystanders nodded, but lost all the tables did not care. Saved his professional honors, money
was not important. Back to take another Tacaza, and return to discuss it. He kept talking.
For as much going on in the triplet, but, contrary to what usually happen in this game, it refrained
from reprimanding his companions and show anger. Spoke yes, much, but always to clarify or
comment upon any play, repeating infinitely concepts in eloquent and persuasive tone, that made
her smile to the onlookers. "If I had not King missed ... If I had a triunfito more ... I dared
not give me the ball because figured D. Pedro ... Why the three cups no gold was to be ...? In
two cases has always thrown around this cure.

"It was a noisy fellow, but very thin and very unselfish.

- Listen uzté, is not going to play uzté? - Valero said, poking his
head out between the players and by examining the letters.

- Do you
think you can? - Moro asked hesitantly.

- I think that zi.

- There
is little of this and too much of this one - said, quietly pointing
the finger at the cards.

- But Zin, zin embargo ... I think ...

-
Well, well, play - Moro replied with his usual finesse.

That game was lost.

Moro glanced at his teammates and shrugged his shoulders in resignation.

As Valero moved away a bit, he hastened to say in a low

- I did not want to antagonize D. Enrique, but that game was unwinnable.

With

these words vindicated his reputation, he was so happy as if he had
given a ball.

The Count de Onis, who initially had shown roistering, was being gradually thoughtful and Amurrio.
Played without any attention, so that his colleagues called him to
order more than once.

- But, Earl, what is it about you today?

I see very worried - he finally D. Pedro.

- Indeed, ze mu noz has puezto uzté triztón - Valero confirmed.

Seeing so sharply questioned, he was troubled as if he feared that the hull of your brain be transparent
and laws within.

- There is nothing special ... I'm pretty upset wheels - said, appealing
a pure and innocent appeal.

- Poor disease and, mate - said Valero.

And everybody pitied her and reported using the special interest of the ailment.

The count looked vaguely embarrassed and answered questions.

- As against this evil, Count - Saleta said - there is no better medicine
than iron.

See you ... I have suffered greatly from the teeth as a student. I dared not make any; but the
landlady who was in Santiago convinced me that tying a string to the wheel and by holding the
other end to the ceiling, was slowly coming out without pain.

I sat in a chair, you know? and when the wheel was well tied, the hostess pulls the chair and
leaves me hanging. Sure, I had no choice but to jump! ...

Valero began to shake his head in a desperate. The others look and smile. Saleta does not notice,
or pretends not to notice, and continues with the word firm and quiet
and the accent Galician characterized him:

- Then I lost all fear.

In La Coruna took me a dentist five in a row.

As Allariz judge, I had a sharp pain, and as there was no dentist, I got three with promoter
a hair curling his wife. As a result of that I attacked a terrible inflammation in the mouth,
you know? I went to Madrid, and Ludovisi, Queen's dentist, burned my gums with a hot iron and
took me seven good ...

- Van fifteen - Valero murmured.

- And I was well, until four years ago in a village in the province Burgos, being seasonal home
of a friend turned me pain, what pain! There was no or physician, or surgeon, or anything. But
there was incidentally a charlatan who drew the wheels mounted on
horseback.

I was so embarrassed, I had no choice but to appeal to him, I took two with the tail of a spoon.

-
Buddy, do Rozario! - Valero said at the height of the outrage .--
Le quea to uzté still a novena in her mouth?

In the uproar that ensued awoke Manin, barbarously desperezose opened
a loudmouth half a yard, letting out a tremendous howl, which impressed
the audience.

Then again the cyclopean torso sideways and prepared to join the dream.

- What you do not have teeth never hurt, eh, Manin? - Asked the Grandee, who could not be a quarter
of an hour without communicating with her butler.

- Who! - Said the laborer without even opening his eyes.

- It's a rock! - Said the gentleman with real enthusiasm.

But Manin sat up a little in his chair and said, rubbing his eyes with his fists:

- I never had more than a pain in the shoulder. He gave me a car carrying grass and took me
more than a month. No bite. Seemed to have one in there that I was gnawing Gafur the rennet. It
broke my ribs, I sank the sides, pulled me to the walls, was bucking and grinning teeth as a basilisk.
He was as yellow as straw harvest. One day I told the priest: - Manin, you lack the chest .--
I have no breast, Father! I know you well!

Apalpe here for his life, I have the brunt of what you imply think .-- As there is no choice, Manin,
you have to call Melico .-- No, Father, I do not want or poultices
yerbatos .-- Oh yes, Manin, if you call it I call it .-- In Finally,
after much gravitate, though I always pulled back pa, Rafael wine
beyond the Melico mine.

He ordered me to remove my shirt and lay back on the masera.

Then begins to give me some golpecicos in the chest with his fist, as he calls the door. Stuck here,
hit there, and that ascucharás ascucha with his ear pressed against
the flesh.

Na! I said: - Gravita, gravitates probiquín! Find the puzcalabre! More than a half hour calling
knuckles and ascuchando. Until they finally got tired of not hearing it Emporte ...--¡ na Oh
soul mate! - crossing himself told me - you have a chest liquid!

Liquid! in my life ...-- I saw one like I already knew I, D. Rafael ...

Upon arriving here he stopped suddenly, and walking a grim look on
the audience, mumbled without being overheard:

- What will laugh
at these jackasses?

And dropping his head again populated with matted hair on his chair, closed his eyes sovereign
contempt.

The gatherings at the Grandee turned their attention to play, still laughing. But Count pensive
and was soon distracted again. After all, unable to suppress unrest of his nerves, he rose from his
chair.

- Come, D. Enrique, you fill my position. The pain bothers me a lot and need to move.

II

The finding.

When the count fell again standing in the room, just the chickens were ready to dance a quadrille.
One of the girls was already retired before the piano. D. Christopher Matthew who was called
in this way in the village, was a former employee who had served many years in the Philippines,
and was retired and did some thirty thousand. He was carrying military, martial really figure
with white mustache, bulging eyes, thick eyebrows and hairy hands. However, in all Spanish dominions
there was no civil man. He had made his career in the finance office, and had professed lifelong
disagreeing the predominance of the military. Always said that the leeches were not state them employees,
but the army and navy. To demonstrate this alleged data, displaying notes taken budget, is
lost in bureaucratic ramblings. He said that the war budget 'Was released by bleeding which
escaped the forces of the nation, "frasecilla that I had read in
the Bulletin of indirect contributions, and had taken up with extreme
fruition.

The soldiers called vague and unquenchable hatred professed to gallons and epaulets. When the
city of Lancia tried to ask the Government to send a regiment to garrison the city, objected,
as a councilman, a determined and strongly to it. Why bring a swarm of drones? In exchange for the
benefits that could accrue from the regiment's stay, Damages were so many! The market is more expensive:
the chiefs and officers liked to be well and take home more expensive foods (for work that
cost them win!). Then they were all gamblers and rub off their bad example to the youth of
the population, outside the fair periods, abstained from the forbidden games. As they were always idle
(D. Christopher firmly believed that a soldier has absolutely nothing to do), force had to
think of pranks and tricks she practices. In summary, the regiment would cause disruption in
the village and a corrupting element. Desire prevailed, but not be him, but because the minister
of war will not send troops to plug Lancia, perhaps considering gentle condition of its inhabitants.

With
thirty thousand pieces of pension people live freely on a cheap as one, if it was not their
daughters were endowed with a certain poetic fantasy which lead to Madrid prefer hats to those who did
Rita, the hat of the street of San Joaquin and eight-button gloves for four. Such exceptional temperament
was due to frequently crisis in the home of retired, with their train of tears, violent slamming
doors, sudden loss of appetite, etc. In these terrible conflicts, we must admit that D. Christopher
no always kept at the level of energy and courage that denoted his mustache and bushy eyebrows.
Truth is always left alone in the fight. Not by chance was if any of his daughters support him.
For matters outside the rentist address of the house often the opinions were based, some daughters
sided with his dad against sisters. But as looming economic problems, constantly looked to
Retired one side and the other four daughters. D. Christopher, as experienced leader, appealed to These
skirmishes with thousands of tricks to defeat their opponents, or to capitulate in good condition.
One day the girls would wake inspired, and called morocco leather boots were similar to those
seen such and such a city girl, usually Fernanda Estrada-Rosa. D. Christopher immediately retreated
into himself. Fell back and meditated. At night, when dinner, slip into the conversation the
news that he had been in The Innovative (shoe estate). He had been told that the boots of morocco
gave very bad result in Lancia, because moisture. Moreover, D. Nicanor (Medical City), who
happened to there morocco had stated that the weather was dismal as cold and rainy, and by
the feet got caught colds many times later degenerated into galloping consumption, etc. Before,
long before Matthew ended his diatribe against morocco, gutted it four buds with ironic laughter
and ponderous words left confused and sad the poor old man. At other times, the heated imagination
of girls required to come Madrid some very nice coats, which had given news Amalia D. Christopher
some time resisted the attacks, but looking very tight, finally capitulated.

His mind, rich in trace amounts, like Ulysses, he suggested to save a magnificent half money at
least.

He went to Amalia and begged to give him your coat for two or three days, so that one of the dressmakers
of four other people do him the same.

Exigiole by Of course, secrecy, and knew Mrs. Quiñones storage.

But alas! not kept the perfidious coats who arrived very empaquetaditos of the chaise, and to offer
the anxious looks and wizards of its four owners, it was heralded very high, so poor of ornamentation
and of sewing Tinker.

- These wraps are not made in Madrid - resolutely said Michelle, who
was the most nervous four.

- Daughter, no rave, by God!

For where they should be? - Exclaims D. Cristobal affected surprise, feeling a warmth in her
cheeks.

- Do not know, but certainly we can ensure that they have not done
in Madrid.

And the four nymphs begin to spin between your fingers ebony coats, the students, analyze them
with attentive care that is suspended and terror to his father. They address meaningful glances,
smiling contemptuously spoken in his ear. Meanwhile, fierce Overseas retired whiskers bristle,
shudder with slight tremor which communicates to his lips and then to the rest of the body.

Finally,
those elegant creatures carelessly loose garments mocker on living room chairs and are to be
locked in the cabinet of Jovita. About half an hour were secret deliberations. D. Christopher
waited anxious and haggard, walking with agitation by the broker as a defendant who awaits
the verdict of the jury.

Finally open the door, and criminal searches forward to the faces
of the judges. These keep quiet attitude, and her lips an enigmatic
smile faded vague. Two They immediately put the blanket and gloves
and take to the street. After become the home for a while shaking,
with the broken face and sparkling eyes. Pen refuses to tell the cruel
scene which occurred in the sweet home of the retired. Much rabid
cry! Much sarcasm! How hysterical laughter! What manoteo! What gnashing
of chairs! Why so sad exclamations! And in the midst of this horrible
disorder, that heat, capable of infusing struck fear in the heart
most serene, four shelters, because of such carnage, torn, made miserable
rags, crawling with ignominy by the ground in return for his crime.

Apart
from these periodic shocks to the wisdom of nature invigorated nerves
a bit unnerved and the retired, the existence of this peaceful and
smooth gliding