 The girl would receive great surprise, but the same the stunned and put more soft.
Serious things of life are generally decided on a hunch. The non- ventured, nothing gained.
In short, Maroon gave discretion and began preparations for the great solemnity. The first thing discussed
was the time. Was resolved to go to the noon. The suit was the subject of lively discussions.
Paco believed that, to present under a more imposing, should wear a uniform, for example,
the manager civil administration fee. It was difficult to get the nomination by sacrificing
a handful of gold, but this more than a month would delay the implementation of the company.
Was discarded uniform and agreed to don black coat and medal dangling councilman. Finally fixed
the day: it was a Monday.

Long before the traitor had crept into the conversation, talking to D. Juan Estrada-Rosa, Garnet species
that boasted of being desired and requested by him to son. D. Juan, it was also rich and had
his piece of pride, and especially adored his daughter and believed that come when you least
expect a Duke of Madrid to ask for it, was greatly irritated, called him rustic, hound, and
vowed that, before seeing his daughter married to such a kaffir, rather to stay single.

- Well, be careful, D. Juan - Paco said grinning - because when you least expect comes home to ask
the hand of Fernanda.

- Do not make this - too .-- replied the banker knows he would throw down the stairs.

With this background, the terrible comedian Lancia marching on safe ground. Outside three or
four friends who helped him persuade D. Santos, nobody gave part of the intrigue, but on Sunday
afternoon, the eve of the event, as Manuel Antonio him, they were touting for all groups and being
cited for the following day at the cafe Cashew. In the provinces, where there are few means of
entertainment, it is taken very seriously this kind of joke, prepare to fruition, is savored
in advance. Paco was the host with keen enthusiasm for youth laciense. The victim was not a poor
devil, how he used happen, but a rich man. This was paying double attraction. At the bottom of
all hearts there are always a few grains of hatred for having a lot
of money.

He ran down the walk voices, and the next day appeared in the Marañón coffee over fifty youths.

But do not give birth while Garnet was not. The cafe was located in a main floor (At that time
were not used low for this destination) Altavilla Street, almost front of the house of D.
Juan Estrada, Rosa. It was large and sumptuous, although not as much as had recently built the Don
Santos. The coffee, old and wretched appearance. The premises occupied by the parishioners, was
a room where the pool table and two cabinets the sides with some wooden tables to eat, all
dirty, dark, dog-eared. How times still further to establish one of the lowest in that same
street British Grand café with marble tables, huge mirrors and gilded
columns as Madrid's finest!

Peering from behind the curtains that Florida youth, eager for the aesthetic pleasures, Garnet was properly
dressed pass, swinging his massive torso on legs who did not deserve. They saw him enter the
house of Estrada-Rosa and even heard the sound of the latch. Nothing more. Immediately opened wide
balconies and filled coffee. The that there was no room clambered
on chairs behind their peers.

All eyes were fixed in the doorway opposite. They waited nearly a quarter of an hour.

After the appearance of garnet purple once again. It was scary. That face was and a velvet as if
it were hanged. The ears were the color of blood. In appearance broke a round of coughs and sneezes
and screams and howls. The Indian raised his head and carried his astonished gaze broken by that
crowd who smiled, not understanding reason. He soon, however, realize
that was a victim of a practical joke.

Her eyes then darted fierce the competition, and said with a disdain
that there was nothing fake:

- Beggars!

And he went like a wild boar hunted by the pack between whistles and
laughter, returning Occasionally his head to spit the same gravest
offensive.

VI

Demoiselles de Mere.

In fact, Matthew had been able Emilita love of a captain of the battalion of Pontevedra. It had taken
many days of incessant tinkering, looks countless provocative of laughter for no reason, of childish
whims, cuddly gestures and angry passengers. There deployed, in short, all their batteries,
showing at once naive and mischievous, sweet and sullen, quiet and talkative, serious and playful
as a little crazy, light and insubstantial as a child, but adorable. Núñez Finally, Captain
Nunez, could not resist this funny mixture of innocence and malice, and fell back first, and then
soon quit.

He was a long face, mustache and goatee, skinny, serious, bilious, with dull eyes and weary, very
exact the performance of their duties and amateur for long walks. This kind of silent men and disciplined
are the most susceptible to the charms of joy and liveliness. Emilita taciturn calling him and
giving him pinching by "rogue and joking ', he, who had to get the words with twist and had
spent his life easier joke!

With this memorable event, the family walked Mateo quite dislocated. Jovita, Micaela and Relief
fortunate sisters maid's legitimate, they felt jealous and flattered at the same time. Understand
that the preference of an infantry officer was an honor so bizarre that radiated on the entire
family and placed in an advantageous position in front of their friends or acquaintances. But at
the same time felt that, being Emilita the last age, not his have a boyfriend, much less marry
until after her sisters. Were premature in her engagements, not counting more than twenty-four
years old. As for the idea that there could marry a creature so tender and so informal, the
same smile of surprise and disdain lips twitched his three older
sisters.

So, even if they are crushed in praise of the captain in front of her friends, emphasizing their
physical clothes, paying a big heart and heroic, certifying their wealth as if it is given
and talking vaguely of certain influences that would later or earlier in the cuff gimped in general,
the fact is that not forgive and never forgave him for his crime chronologically.

On the other hand, Sir Christopher, the father of the angel naughty and playful, was suddenly
in a position so false that he wanted to go crazy. He fought his father's love tough battle
with I hate the military. Avergonzábale to consent to give his daughter to a military hearing
after if any called him so many times lazy, leeches, and have claimed both by the reduction
the quota. What face would be presented to friends thereafter? Well-spent days terrible. The
hatred for the army and the navy was so deeply rooted in his heart, he could not die suddenly.
However, he was forced to admit that noble conduct of Captain Nunez had strongly diminished.
The desire to marry their daughters enjoyed so much life in the depths of his being as contempt of the
military. How he regretted having ranted so much against it! In his trouble came to deplore Nunez
belonged to the infantry weapon.

Even if ocean, decrease the severity the conflict. Recalled that in his diatribes against the
army to the proviso that it was necessary to retain some ships to protect the colonies. The same
could be said if it belonged the Civil Guard. As for the other ground forces, there was no
apology or had half out of trouble.

In such dire circumstances at home decided to shut. When ever came, he was suspicious and fled.
The loves of her daughter became more formal and increasingly public. He feared the jokes. Fear made him
give up, taking a double proceed false, unworthy full of character and history. That is, while still
affected public contempt for the ground forces, when he spoke to her daughter's boyfriend or
between military did it with kindness, I asked them for his career with interest, as well as
whether to provide services in any State civil office.

No one would suspect to hear so thoroughly learned the ranks, reserves and replacements, etc.,
the man they had sworn eternal hatred. But the jubilation was over time a distinction that had
never dared to propose. As military is not compromised with them, were considered a social
plague ... Now "As men," might well be worthy of esteem, according to their qualities.

The Loves of Emilita were born and raised like many others in the house of Mere. Were these two young
ladies who spent the eighties and did not reach a hundred. Anyway, the entry of the nineteenth
century were already mature. Lancia did not have in any family. None the living remembered his
father, who died when they were still young girl. He was employed in the field of Finance. Presumably,
given its antiquity, it would perceiver of checkpoints breasts or other extinct. Eighteenth
century, to which they belonged, had these interesting First ladies in costume. Could never
enter this fashion. A skirt of very drained black cube with leads below to drain even more size high,
tight sleeve with studs, low-cut slipper and a headdress tabinete unlikely of pure fancy, well
presented throughout. The blanket was not wearing veil, but twill velvet stripe, as the artisans
use only now. They carried a cane for support. Also retained the exquisite courtesy, lightness
of character, passion for society and endless joy, wonderful at his age. What they had not This
century brought with them was freedom of manners and malice that, in the words of historians characterized
the society of the past. Impossible to imagine creatures easier. As if they had gone through life,
all were surprised at all believed least evil. So often were victims of teasing from friends
and commentators, but why leave any of profess deep affection. From time immemorial had habit of
receiving in his home at night Lancia's youth, particularly those boys who was happy to attend
the very great liberty enjoyed there. By agreement tacit all the tuteaban. And it was indeed a pilgrimage
to hear the little boys of ten and eight years speak with such familiarity to little old ladies
who could be their grandmothers.

Carmelite for here, Nuncita there, because the oldest was called Ms Carmen and younger Ms Annunciation.

Three
or four generations have passed through that little room of Collins Street, modest and neat, with
polished wooden floors, wicker chairs, red damask sofa, comfortable knickknacks crowded mahogany,
tortoise shell-framed mirror and various pastel squares representing the story of Romeo and
Juliet. The gathering of the de Mere was the oldest Lancia. Contrary to what usually happens, these
women were unable to find husband mania to marry around the world. The number of marriages that
went agreed that parlor is incalculable. As a boy warned that any girl approached more than
the others, were already preparing our young ladies to join them with wire loop indissoluble,
and not allow anyone to sit in the chair that was next to Fulanita so that when coupled Somebody's
niece came and found her having only sit. And come a disproportionate praise Fulanita Somebody's
niece, and go to the closely relationships Somebody's niece The workmanship that Fulanita
runs with the needle and that is economical and industrious and pious and clean. And later Get
away to the mother house for conferences Fulanita long, intimate, transcendent, and then seek
tripping Somebody's niece's dad and deploy all his diplomatic skills to explore the heart.
And as a reward for these sweats received, after all, a candy cartuchito wedding day.

But all the mothers of marriageable girls adored not be satisfied with bless and sycophants. Saludábanlas
half a league, and out of the church are quick to offer his arm to be supported. Instead,
they had a son of marriageable age used look at them with suspicion and dislike, they were
called under his pussy and busybodies. No need indicate, therefore, that his passion matchmaker cost
them not a few surprises. When a fop felt sprout in his heart the flame of love, the first thing
I did was show it the de Mere.

- Carmelita, I'm in love.

- Who, hearts, who - asked the old woman with keen interest.

- De
Rosario Calvo.

- Aha!

Good taste has had the rogue. Prettiest girl there and better educated. You were born to each other.

And
for a while zagalillo had the pleasure of listening to the eulogy
of his beloved.

- I hope you'll protect me.

- Everything you want,
my soul.

After a few days, Rosario Calvo, who had not set foot in his home
life of de Mere, appeared there and was assiduous Tertullian.

How had they managed those for engage it? It is not easy to find, but many times they had been
completed and companies similar, which surely had a simple and safe prescription.

Encariñábanse with friends as if they were all close relatives.

Contábanse of these features self-denial that extremely honored. During the furious reaction
of 1823, a your meetings, lieutenant of cavalry, fled after some attempt aborted at home. The
ladies received him and hid him some days, and managed to get out escapes disguised in the
garb of a servant. But news that he was taking the police to search the house, thought to terror
in the uniform of lieutenant. Where to save not giving to him? Carmelita, in those critical moments,
had a stroke of genius and bravery. He dressed in uniform under his clothes for women. In fact,
this Lieutenant behaved with them quite ungrateful. Did not take his life ten minutes to write a
letter giving thanks.

It was not the only one who had to suffer because of their evening.

Used to exploit these their kindness as they could; recreábanse at home, enjoyed the company and conversation
of the most beautiful young Lancia, concerting some marriage, then you do it, or because their
business or their age prevented them from attending the gathering, if I saw you, I forget; just the
greeting on the street. The same is true of the breast, as rendered and flattering before marrying
their daughters, and so detached so I got. But such weaknesses are not alter the mood of those blessed
or destroy his optimism. As we were renovating incessantly attendees home, forget the ingratitude
of the ancients to think so only in appreciation taxed them new.