 Convínose to meet every
year and perpetuate such an event. Of course, that we invite to Fag. Fag was a third passenger,
and as will be understood, it was necessary, since we were on land, be a bit cautious. But the
old Fag, as we called him, but was not more than twenty-five years (such as brackets), was for us that
day the subject of much banter. According to seems, conceived the idea of ??walking to Sacramento,
and really went on that form. The party was complete: gave us all a good handshake, and each was
by his side. Alas! No it eight years ago, and yet, some of those hands, then narrowed friendly,
have risen up against each other, and have sneaked into our pockets. We did not eat together
and next year, because the young Baker vowed not to ever sit in occupy the same table as a villain as
despicable as Remigio, and Colas, which asked Valparaiso borrow the young Lupo, who served
as a waiter in a restaurant, did not like meet people of such ilk.

Having purchased a number of actions Cayote's Tunnel in Mugginswille,
54, is I did go up there and examine it.

I stayed at the Fonda of the Empire, and after eating, I looked for a horse, I turned the
village and went to the mines. I was told a of those individuals whom newspaper correspondents
call "our intelligent news "and that small communities can easily take the right to give all
kinds reporting. The force of habit and allowed to work and talk at once, without forgetting never
one thing for another. Brought me a kind of history of the farm, adding:

- See you (and headed to the bank before it), surely there must come
out gold (And here filed a coma with his lance), but the previous
owner (pulled stomach cramps the word of his pica) was a poor man
(and underlined the phrase with pica), an unhappy devoid of all authority,
allowing the kids to go up to her whiskers ... (The rest entrusted
the operation to remove his hat to wipe his brow manly with a large
blue check handkerchief.)

Curiosity led me to ask who was the original
owner.

- It was called Fag.

I hastened to visit him, I seemed older and uglier. He had worked hard, as said, however, the
only thing he was going so well. Take his hobby and to some extent protected him. If I did,
because it started to feel distrust for kids like Abelard and Remigio need not speak.

Everyone remembers how the Cayote's Tunnel collapsed ignominiously
and how we cheated.

Well, well, the first thing I learned was that Abelard, one of the
major shareholders, was reduced in Migginswille to save the hotel
bar, and had the old Fag Rich, at last, and vareaba silver.

Remigio I learned all this when he came to fix their affairs. He also told me that he had coconuts
Fag daughter of the owner of that hotel. So, by hearsay and by letters, I came to know that
Robins, the owner of the hotel tried to arrange the marriage between his daughter Rosita and Fag.
Rosita was a strange child nice and plump, and I would not do more
than what his father commanded.

I found it very convenient Fag to marry and to establish, therefore, as a married man, would acquire
all other authority.