 

Venturita drove around all day about his mother, waiting for a chance to talk without witnesses.
At dusk, when the seamstress went, mother and daughter were alone at last. Cecilia had retired
to her room dominated by the sadness that had veiled to work during the day. Dona Paula was sitting
in an armchair with eyes on the balcony, picking up the last rays of the dying light in melancholic
and reflective attitude, rare in it. He seemed to dislike hanging over his head. Venturita put the
racks in a corner and covered them with a cloth, arranged the chairs and drag Shopping at the
side seam not to hinder.

- Tell them to bring light - said Dona Paula.

- Why? - Said the girl
sitting on a low chair beside her .-- It is done.

His mother returned to squint to the balcony and was in the same melancholy attitude. After a few
moments of silence, Venturita took his hand and led her tenderly to his lips. Dona Paula turned
her head in surprise. Seldom, if ever, his youngest daughter will
had given the respectful kiss.

She smiled sweetly and took his chin between his fingers, he said:

-
Are you happy with the dress?

- Yes, mom.

- It makes a very nice
body.

As you play a bit in the chest, remain in handy.

The girl was silent.

Looking up after a moment he said, struggling to make your voice
a turning point for sure

- Tell me, Mom, what do you think of the
withdrawal of Gonzalo?

- The withdrawal of Gonzalo! - Said Mrs. head
back in amazement .-- What do you want say, child?

- Yes, the withdrawal,
because I know that is not sick.

Yesterday was up all night playing billiards in the cafe of the Navy.

- Bah, bah! Feel like laughing?

- I'm not laughing, Mom, I'm serious.

- And who told you that?

-
I know by Nieves, who told his brother.

- You may have eased the
pain at night and come out to spread a little.

- And then, why not
come today?

- Because it will come again.

- Do not believe it, Mom
... Rest assured that Cecilia Gonzalo does not want.

- Do you know
what you're saying, stupid?

Me a favor and shut up, before I get angry.

- I will be silent,
but the evidence of love is giving not great.

- You should see that!
- Said Mrs. becoming angry .-- If Gonzalo is much, Cecilia more ...
My daughter despises and Gonzalo and the Prince of Asturias, you know
... I learn what you just said, and if it is true, and I'll take my
measurements.

Dona Paula was naturally kind and gentle, kind to the poor and generous,
but had unthinking arrogance and exaggerated susceptibility of Sarrió
artisans.

- No, Mom, is not it.

Who ever said Cecilia Gonzalo despises?

- Yourself.

Why do not you then?

Venturita paused, and answered firmly:

- Because he loves me.

- Come on - smiling lady said .-- I should already understand from
the beginning that it was all a joke.

- No joke, it's the truth ...
And if you want to convince, learn ...

Pulled chest while carrying
a letter prevention, and handed.

Dona Paula stood up strongly, and shouted:

- Pronto! ... A light, soon!

Venturita picked up a box of matches was on sewing, and ignited a.

Mother and daughter were pale. It pulled the letter to light.

As read a few lines, dropped into his chair and staring with painful
expression on her daughter, said

- Ventura, what have you done?

-
Me?

Nothing - said the girl pulling the ground that the match drew to
a close.

- Is that all you like, crazy, prevent the marriage of your
sister, miserably deceive, to a scandal in the village and never be
seen?

- I have not done anything like that.

It was he who proposed to me. Is it a sin be loved?

- This time, yes - Mrs. sternly replied .-- At the first sign you should have warn. You consent
to speak otherwise than as a sister, was to betray your sister and
make you very little favor.

- Well, is - said the girl scornfully.

-
I do not be - Dona Paula replied angrily and rising .-- What have
you proposed, we, di?

... Rather, what you have proposed?

- You guess.

- Marry, right?
- Asked sarcastically.

- How wrong you are!

... Your sister's marriage will be undone ... From now I give it
to waste ... But whatever it is you, or you are free to marry Gonzalo
... or put it even more down home ...!

First, you're a brat that you should be playing with dolls and being whipped ... and although
it is not, nor your father nor I could agree that you married a man
who has miserably deceived your sister and has fooled us all ... At
least people would say is that we are killed by him our son.

That takes away, girl!

- So you want or not want - Venturita said retreating back to the door, - I marry.

Dona Paula wanted to punish the insolence, but she rushed out, grabbed
the door and gaped after, angry tone said:

- Marry Me!

Marry me! Marry me!

The next day, Gonzalo received a letter from her, saying: "Yesterday
I spoke with Mom.

It has very angry. Today I again, and hopefully yield.

Be confident. "

And indeed, that morning mother and daughter returned to have spoken in the last quarter. Was long,
and do not know what it happened. Dona Paula came after an hour with his eyes red to mourn,
touching his heart, which often suffered in the direction to his room and lay down. Ventura went
after her, calm, but pale. Called Generosa, confidant, and gave him a message for Gonzalo.
This, at nine o'clock at night, was walking front of the house Belinchón.

A few minutes later, opened the window Venturita desktop I was on the ground floor and had bars.

-
It is done - said in falsetto after the young man drew nigh.

- How?

Really? - He asked cheerfully.

- Oh, good work has cost me!

I was furious.

- What about your dad?

- Dad does not know anything, but give in too ... Go if you give in! ... The recipe can not be
more effective.

- What recipe?

- The one I used ... The thing had become so ugly that was already
decided that you do not come back closer to home.

I sent them to Tejada as a punishment.

Neither supplications nor reasons were worth anything.

Was mad with rage.

I called infamous traitor. To me, just imagine how I would! ... So I did not choice but to
appeal to the last resort ... even if he is a bit strong - adding
in voice low and upset.

- What resource? - Gonzalo asked curiously.

Venturita was silent a few moments. After ashamed replied:

- I said ... I told you and I could not get married less than now.

- What then?

- Well ... well ... adivínalo - said the girl impatiently.

Indeed, Gonzalo guessed and experienced a feeling of disgust and fear.

Stubbornly silent for some time. Venturita finally asked:

- Have you been happy?

- Yes - said dryly.

- For dispensing, boy
... Tomorrow I will say that everything was a lie ... and we finished.

-
Nothing is coming forward now.

What I think evil is the result, as you understand, but it has left
that from you.

- More than I miss you.

- By the same token I'm sorry!

-
Well, give expressions - harshly replied getting up from the windowsill,
where she sat.

Gonzalo reached out through the bars, and held by the dress.

- Wait.

The fabric rustled.

- You've already broken the dress, see?

- If you do not shoot as soon ...

And getting catch by the arm, forced
her to sit.

- Good lord! - Said the girl laughing .-- It must be
love bears.

- Do you love me? - Gonzalo said laughing too.

- No.

-
Yes.

- No.

- Give me the hand of friendship.

The girl held out her white and delicate hand, and kissed her youth
Herculean passion repeated times.

- See you tomorrow.

I'll give you news of what happens - said rising again.

Gonzalo away.

The four steps occur to him that the news had to be a reference Cecilia
received by way of his disloyal conduct, and his brow furrowed again
with painful expression.

A round with this concern crossed distracted Rúa Nueva, entered the plaza of the Navy walked along
the pier and was extended to the tip of the Pawn.

The night was calm and clear. The stars twinkled in the sky ripples
on the calm waters Bay.

The rigging of ships in it stood out quite clearly the dark blue background. Had not yet sounded
the cry of "apafogones" and they felt in some lights and some movement. The sailors, leaning
on the bulwarks, chatted before retreat to the cabin.

From time to time, facing a large English steamer anchored in the middle screamed one: "All right"
exaggerating the pronunciation: "all right", answered a tender. The cry was repeated in all
the schooners, and quechemarines pataches. It was the joke spent with the British arrived there.
But the big steamer remained silent, nodding phlegmatically with that contempt so deep that
no one better than a child knows Albion affected.

At the tip of Pawn stumbled as he took the little walker that was cool. It was one of the hottest
nights in August. Gonzalo, tormented by heat and by the idea its compromised situation, he walked
with his hat in his hand. Before reaching the end the pier, saw on the second wall a gigantic
figure.

- There is my uncle - he said.

The old sailor spent much of his life on that wall, in intimate conversation with the sea, his former
friend and companion.

For him there was the terrible secrets Ocean, now slept quietly in
his huge bed of sand, now wake up to the sky spitting mad its foam.

Could provide new safe and anticipated their anger, their faintness, their smiles, in their deepest
heart palpitations. The monster opened its liquid heart, as loyal confidant, told how he was
bored in his prison of granite, and what you feel like rushing Sometimes, witnessing the outrages
of men to rush on earth, and sweep once this foul nest. And the good gentleman would reply,
thinking of the crime that had just read:

- You're right, comrade, I, in your case, you may do so.

For all the world would Don Melchor to give their morning walks, evening
and night the tip of the Pawn.

In his wife's life when he was a cold, could be seen pointed to dispense
of these visits, and was what troubled him.

Now, unfortunately, did not have anyone holding him, a cold and everything went.

- For colds, there's nothing like the fresh air of the sea.

When from time to time suffered from the stomach, drank a couple glasses
of brine, and was fixed.

- No bleed so natural, so effective and
harmless as seawater.

I once suffered from a leg. Two ulcers were eating away the flesh
it up leaving the bone exposed.

Doctors, not only gave up for lost leg, but feared for his life. Evicted and had the audacity
to take him to the beach and bathe. For the nine bathrooms, the ulcers were closed. Imagine what
they think after this, the healing power of the sea.

Instead, he had strong dislike to the rivers.

The air of the river made him hoarse. The humidity was rheumatic pains. The fog choked him
and put him asthmatic. It was that air in them "encallejonado" he inspired an untold loathing
and contempt.

Don Melchor slept little. He got up with stars, and as he rose up to the lookout, scanned the
sky and sea, and after drawing in the head a state weather provisional day, down to fix definitively
the end of the Pawn. Provided there than once if the wind was simple vahajillo filed or if
the star was frankly or inclined to the fourth quadrant, if the face was haze or closed, if the
sea was minced or milk, how long would all this, what wind would point at noon, if the sea
??would be thick in the afternoon or abonanzaría, etc., etc. I could not take the chocolate if I
had not made such comments.

And indeed, although this seems a hobby, téngola for less foolish than up of bed to scrutinize
the face of the neighbor, if it is clean or dirty, happy or loom
blurry if you eat or fast, whether sleeping or sailing, whether strike
or work, how long it stays at home and what course to take when you
leave.

Gonzalo moved into second wall with an irresistible desire to relieve the chest, and make his
uncle aware of what was happening. And why the sudden and severe condition it did not fit
very romantic confidences. But the timing was critical and accurate. Don Melchor, with the weight
of the years used to bend a little body forward, seeing the approach
of a man to him, he straightened up.

Because the effort was that nobody had noticed for its decline and
her male deputy impregnable.

- Is that you, Gonzalillo?

- The same,
man.

- Miracle!

You like to see more balls rolling waves ivory.

- No, today I have
not played billiards.

I am sad, worried ... and wanted to talk to you are a serious matter,
to see what he advises.

Don Melchor looked at him with surprise.

- A serious matter?

- Yes
... Let's see, man: you would marry a woman who would not?

- What
a question!

Marriage at my age is a hole in the funds, dear.

- But if young,
marry?

...

- Never.

- Well, Uncle ... I do not want to Cecilia.

- Do not want to Cecilia?
- Stunned the knight said.

It should be noted that Don Melchor was a blind love, almost worship the promised his nephew.
For him, the creature was sacred. Since Gonzalo noticed her and he knew, made the subject
of persistent observation was the same as if recognizing the hull of a ship before the trees. Found
it good, quiet, intelligent and industrious, and felt intense bitter joy only by the news
that the couple would not go to live with him. Recently visited the home of Belinchón, but when
the girl stumbled into the street, never left to stop it, so gallant
showing and expressive as he had never seen anyone.

- Did not want
it? - Repeated .-- And why not want it, dunce?

- Do not know.

I made superhuman efforts to collect love, and I did not succeed.

- And now you remember that? A month before you get married? Come on, Gonzalo, you have to give
carina on the head.

- It is an atrocity ... I understand ... but I can not bring myself to be miserable life.

- Woe!

And flames Unfortunately, great zarramplín, marry a girl so good and so beautiful that no one
in Sarrió you reach the soles of shoes?

Gonzalo could not help but smile.

- Cecilia is a good girl, worthy of marrying a better man than me
... but beautiful Uncle ...

- Beautiful, yes, beautiful, idiot! -
Angrily exclaimed M. de las Cuevas .-- Can you studs to an angel?

The veteran was (though the assertion raised eyebrows) in the age
at which feels better women's poetry, which is the exquisite sensitivity,
resignation, tenderness, sacrifice and not available ephemeral form,
as judged divestment impetuous youth.

- No riñamos for it.

- Yes
reñiremos ... I do not want to speak to me again that way ... Cecilia
Go, go!

- Well, as I confess that Cecilia is a very pretty girl ...
but ...

- But what?

- But I can not love her ... because I want
another.

- What the hell are you saying thousand there, boy! - Don
Melchor uttered by the arm holding his nephew and shaking.

- I can
not help it, man.

I love to her sister's neck Ventura.

- Are you at your trial or
between two stools, rapacious?

- I'm serious ... I love her, and
she loves me.

- You think that this says it all? - Said the old man
increasingly angry .-- Do you think and can miss a sacred commitment?

Do you think that this can be left exposed to a young a mockery of
the population?

Do you think there are parents that authorize such infamy?

- Uncle - Gonzalo said gently - before daring to tell you what just
hear, things have happened that forced me to take this step.

My relationships are Venturita formal.

Her mother knows and has approved, and this time also his father
must have news of them.

- What about the authority?

- I'm sure.

Don Melchor left arm of his nephew who was taken, and put his hand
to his forehead.

Was a long time without speaking.

Said after word slowly and melancholy tone:

- Good is ... Nothing I can do to avoid such a shame ... It is a shame!
- Added powered .-- You are an adult, and although they were not,
in these matters intenvendría not ever.

- Are you angry?

- Nor can
here angry.

Sorry only.

I feel sorry for her because I have to collect it baby ... and even more sorry for you, Gonzalo.
The man who misses his word God can not help ... Were already on
board a boat insurance, transport, white wood While bleeding, with
the funds lined, sturdy trees and rigging clean and simple and leave
it to embark on a lighter and trouser ... Enjoy your meal you make.

But remember account, child, that the journey is long, wide and wild
sea, so is prosperity now, in an instant becomes surf cam, the wind
does not always chilly, and when it gets worse, it gets really heavy.

So not worth aloft workmanship or paintings on the touchline, but wood, lots of wood. Dame seams,
and give you miles.

Bunting is little point in leaving port if the hull can not handle
the rig ... You know ... I liked Cecilia I am very sorry to say the
same about his sister ... This is not speaking against it.

Or know enough, or My responsibility is to do, but I can and I must say my feelings, but never
mind of them ...

- Oh, man! ...

- Nothing, nothing, dear: when a boy falls on his head a suestazo of these is jump must lower the sail
sheets and let bowline-off. You are scorched apparently ... well, I refresh ... But keep in
mind that neither have you safe course, no work as a gentleman.

- Uncle!

- Clearer than I, water, dear. If you have managed to overcome the resistance of parents and if
you've saved the trouble, will not achieve that make white black,
not to make a bad action good ... Pica pica long cables and sail.

I am old now, and I have hope not to watch you run the storms that
have to fall on you ... But if God would give me that punishment,
if ever, for my sins, I saw you run a capella and drinking water by
overboard ... feel, my son, have no more strength to throw you a rope.

The old man's voice had moved as he uttered these last words. Gonzalo felt apretársele heart. Stubbornly
silent for a while.

After Don Melchor said:

- Are you coming to dinner, Gonzalito?

-
Now I have no appetite, man, there go a little later.

- Well, so
far - sadly gave Mr de las Cuevas.

And he walked slowly toward ground, losing a bit in the shadows.

Gonzalo was as I was, face down on the parapet of the wall, watching the sea that beat lightly.
The waves, after crashing into the stone with light, hollow boom,
fell running on the other, and produced sound similar to a curtain
that unfolds.
