 Castilla had even titles honoring the gathering with his presence, among including
the Marquis de Dávalos, so crazy in love as ever. The Amparo, who flattered this frenzied love
known to all Madrid, scorned in public and secretly fed him. Where wavered over the soirees of this
was for the women's side, while not missing not some middle-class ladies who, in exchange for
stepping royal halls and be served by footmen in knee breeches, consented to mingle with the beloved
Salabert. Truth silenced their scruples by saying that Amparo would soon be the Duchesse de
Requena, as ended the mourning of the former wife.

Followed the dispute between the duke and his daughter, more determined every day and on. The
Amparo party declared him among his friends enjoyed dropping against deadly hatred Clementina
professed in words the tavern. They came out to shine at their gathering all the ravings of
the lady, corrected and augmented by the parasites were told stories that would blush a civilian
guard, was attacked to his body garments, saying that the teeth were false, he had a crooked
hip and other slurs on. One night was successful a wonderful little boy to say that Clementina,
according to unimpeachable, spent pants flannel following the flesh.

Some of these sayings came to the attention of the interested and were pale with anger, bitter Extremely
their hectic lives. The lawsuit was and for her personal struggle with Amparo. The most feared
and Osorio also was that the announcement was made marriage his father. If this happened there
was nothing to do with the former boasting crown florist Duke, trying to power to power them.
Although initially rejected by society, and with time everything is forgotten, perhaps that wretched
woman to become a real duchess. Fortunately for them, but Salabert was subject in everything to
their will, they consisted stubbornly opposed to marriage, that Amparo was useless effort to decide,
that there were violent scenes between them. The former florist, at first, had taken by tremendous.
It was said that in a moment had struck the Duke with scissors, which cries often heard the servants
simply out of pretty insulting to the old, filling him with insults. One swore that he had
heard shouting:

- Why do not you marry? Gave you, bastard! ... Do you think you dishonor with that? Do not you
know that why everybody says you're a thief? What do your initials stand for that !...? I will
be a p. .. but a p. .. Is not worth as much as a thief?

True or not these horrors, which consisted of a doubt how it was resistance and the pursuit of
it. Someone made him understand that this was not the best system and that was at risk, for
wanting everything to lose everything. Changed tactics. He devoted himself to his beloved out
of all the money he could and push gently but with persistence, marriage. But although in regard
to the latter their assaults remained unsuccessful, Clementina and Osorio was with the soul
on a string. It was said that the Duke was really sick, who suffered from progressive paralysis.
In view of this is determined, after hearing those of some famous
lawyers, to ask the courts to disqualify him or inability to manage
their property