 The second queen is Christ, and with it the compassion and
also love, but love mixed with mortification, penance, fasting, tears, vigils and even flogging,
all of which Mr. Gener like little or nothing. But fortunately, and that Mr. Gener is pleased,
the third rule is soon to start at least we realize it. Will the reign of the Holy Spirit, that
is pure love, not disciplines and without abstinence, without hair shirts and no scraps, but all
delight, feast and Gaudeamus relentless.

The style of Mr. Gener, full of lyricism, although written in prose on the reader not little
doubt. How Mr. Gener want that much of what he says is true or limited to a symbol, allegory,
image or figure of speech in vain? Anyway, even if symbol and not really something that Mr. Gener
us in his magnificent painting paintings, still can and should we peer into the hidden symbol
in it actually contains. Now, if it is true, as Mr. Gener said, with talk at the same Eternal
Father, this is not true provident and providence is that of man, Nietzsche reason, and do
not have Mr. Gener to advise the man to have fun and not be anxious because the super-man
appears. How to appear, if we who are the ruling did not bring?

Mr. Gener God says in his long speech, that good and evil you are indifferent; he is limited
to producing life, and that if you create flowers, beauty and health, tasty fruits, innocent pigeons
and doves, butterflies and dragonflies and cute and painted birds that sweetly warble and chirp also
creates tigers and hyenas, spiders deformed, poisonous scorpions, earthquakes, hurricanes and pestilence
and prolific variety of microbes, because of the more disgusting and deadly diseases. Such is the God
who speaks with Mr. Gener and declares that it is not for us neither savior nor provident. Our salvation
and our real effective is providence ourselves. To us to, as Mr. Gener says by the mouth of
the Eternal Father he imagines, turn the venom balm, pain pleasure, roses and thorns microbial
pathogens in pleasantness. But if we do all this responsibility is not While we sit passively
and forget our responsibility. Nietzsche, for this hand, is right, and Mr. Gener do not have,
and, finally, if one looks, has no Mr. Gener reason to deny the providence of God, because
God, by virtue of a wise plan, uses of man to overcome obstacles, to destroy evil and make him
well, and we refined and improved where possible.

If there is no plan, do not know where Mr. Gener may assert that there
is progress, improvement, advent of super-men and other future blessings.

And if that is the plan and all that and more can be said, the plan is not human but divine.
What higher providence God can conceive Mr. Gener? How to imagine that the plan is human?
How man is born and dies and who lives such a short time on earth is to have drawn this plan?
Concede that he discerned, he discovers, but it sets.

I decide not to be true or a lie, but our understanding is not absurd
a broadly conceived plan and imagined, and not to represent us in
a number of centuries the development and history of the entire universe,
so that We represent you at least what happened on our planet since
the moment he started revolve around the sun until today.

In my view, is extremely poetic idea and ingenious of atoms, driven by the itch of life that
moves them, come to produce life, and that, once created life, what beautiful is completing and
perfecting each again. But who has the intelligence of atoms, not aware that understand, this
itch tireless and unfailing that creates life and then the improvement? All this is explained
assuming the God who Nietzsche and Gener refuse, as sovereign and supreme intelligence as they
prepare, and have rule over all. Without it, can never conceive the human mind for many centuries
used in the transformation, how can birth most of the least of which is not moving it moves, what
you do not live long lives, the unconscious conscious, and what intelligence do not understand.
This is inexplicable, is contrary to reason that the most ridiculous of all mythologies, the
most rudimentary and primitive of all religions. And, conversely, does not affirm the existence
of well God, everything becomes clear and everything in the transformer seems more beautiful
and more consistent with omnipotence and wisdom of God than any other system cosmogony. It's
more anthropomorphic and, therefore, less divine, understand that God manages the universe as
a watchmaker fixes the machinery of a clock, and gives, for example, the birds wings to fly, eyes to they
see to see, and they understand understanding to understand, to understand God places on the substance,
in the matter, atoms, or as we like to call a unfailing desire and movement in a safe direction,
firm and without possible loss by whose virtue, creates the desire to live life, flying, wings,
and seeing, the eyes.

I repeat that I do not affirm or deny the evolution and the transformer. I do not plead or otherwise
supporter of Darwin. I merely assert that Darwin did not invade the domains of metaphysics
or religion, and differentiating his unfaithful disciple of Haeckel, and even more from Mr.
Gener and Nietzsche. Bishop and Van Wedding, in its reasonable element of religion is expressed
in this way. "Faith and science may agree to accept a transformer
in which While respecting the notion of the creative cause of the
soul and spirit and freedom.

"From here it follows that even the most orthodox Catholic can be Darwinian, based on texts
and Case of San Augustine, Aquinas and other Doctors and Fathers of the Church as shown, or
attempts to demonstrate this, the eminent Italian poet and philosopher Antonio Fogazzaro In a
recent and very interesting book called human ascents.

Does not follow, however, acceptance of the doctrine of the processor, security appear to be
superman when least expected. The most that will be inferred somewhat remote possibility of
that occurrence. For now, the super-man is not come. By contrast, moral and political advancements,
the multitude of inventions that make now more comfortable and more enjoyable life and the immense
wealth of studies, and experimental and observation, and theoretical
and speculative, which are kept in books and printing reports, are
now easier than any one man stands out, but gave a lot of be super-man,
but has less moral worth and intellectual men of yesteryear.

Few sublime can come up today a poet who has studied a lot, are not as staggering, They do
not involve super-manhood as rare as that was, say, back in the primitive ages, the inspired
author of the book of Job or Richie or poet who composed the hymn of the Rig-Veda, the Unknown
God. Trajan and Marcus Aurelius, despite being Gentiles are no monarch worth more than extending
them throughout history. In pure and fervent love of God, few men and creatures appear in
the visible universe, it is difficult to be born and who overcomes
and surpasses San Francisco de Assisi.

And if Kant, Schelling and Hegel seem deep philosophers, comprising and explaining everything, still
seems superior intelligence of Aristotle through what had far fewer media. And what is said here
of individuals, more so is true of organized groups or communities. What city modern, without excluding
Florence and Paris, created a philosophical culture, literary and artistic so original and so
few precedents and exotic elements, such as Athens in time of Pericles? "Not what nation, finally,
by dominating and stronger than either the day you can dream with glory and power that are
equivalent to those of Rome, not being more than a city ruleth the best in the world, gave laws and
language, and founded an empire that lasted more than a few centuries? Y when neither in Athens nor
in Rome showed the core of super-men, we may expect not appear in the day or in England or France
or Germany or Russia, or in the United States. All be content and be content with being essentially
the same, although momentary circumstances (for momentary must be given the secular amplitude history),
these nations prevail today, they overlap and to dominate the others.

Anyway, there we will see how this explains Mr. Gener and what most clearly prophesies In his Gospel
of Life, which will appear entirely in French, and soon, and we know only the Preface and three
or dithyrambs eloquent odes to loneliness, his brother Silence, and Night, fertile mother of
two. Lovingly joined with Mr. Gener Soledad aforementioned, it will or has already had a son
who comes to be without doubt the verb of his Gospel. Silence is being raised, and is not well brought
up, Mr. Gener is the crowd to cast desatontarla, stirring all.

It's so funny and so poetic as Mr. Gener announces and advertises it so eloquently overwhelming,
I feel haunted and almost seduced, inclined to believe in the advent super-man and even to
wish, but I kept between the sub-men and the superfluous; but the last article of the book by Mr.
Gener is my hope fade away, to wither my desire and overthrow the faith in the super-man who
was beginning to be born in my soul.

The last article of the book by Mr. Gener, titled The hyper-positivism,
should be titrated The hyper-negativity, because it denies everything,
casting roll as is known, any basis knowing, all criterion of truth,
any contention that there is something.

Not happy Mr Gener to be all spirit, and wants to Berkeley, or that it is all matter, as desired
Büchner and Moloschot, nor the only substance of Spinoza, nor with the time, space and the vast amount
of things that coexist in space and that occur over time, are only forms of our feeling and
our understanding, not subjective phantasmagoria known to what extent they agree or disagree
with reality that produces them. Mr. Gener goes further and doubted
whether there was such external reality: nearly denied.

Says there representation, but ensures that there is not represented. Your question or its negation
is more radical. Destroys not only represented, but also the theater where representation and
the viewer appears the beholder. Mr. Gener goes beyond Schopenhauer, who sees only the representation
universe and will. Mr. Gener is that the will is more than enough, which is nothing more than appearance.
Everything is thus reduced to representation, the most complete nihilism: a representation without
theater without actors, without spectators, without anything substantial and real to be represented.

If after cramming and studying mathematics, physics, chemistry, botany, zoology, anthropology
and a multitude of subjects that Mr. Gener been studied in a prominent, we come to stop at the
end that Mr. Gener for almost is best not to open a book or learn anything. Everything is unknowable.
We no longer dare to figure out what is known as a small island in an ocean unfathomable and infinite
can only cross imagination or faith. The island itself and to us the inhabitants of the island,
fall under the predicament of the unknowable: we are pure phenomena, the substance and the cause
are "fiction, nonsense words. There is only movement.

Electricity, light, life, strength, feeling and thinking, everything is moving, no engine, no object
moved and no place or time real objectives and, where and in which the object moved to move.

What remains to be done in such a distressing situation? How will comfort us after lost all reality?
Then we will comfort you with poetry, with music and with other fine arts. In a passive way,
we will just be attending public and revel representation. And in an active way, we will be comedians,
poets and composers of music and dramatize our operations and our dramas. This is the final point reached
by Mr. Gener after your studies.

Evil, or at least what I can not understand yet is how the representation
has to like it or how I write something that is rendered when Mr.
Gener begins to take off the noun.

We have no word that is not impersonal, agentless and with no patient. Vibrates see, smell,
walk, eat, etc.., but do not know who eats, who sees, or who vibrates, and what is it vibrated,
neither eaten nor seen. Everything is unknowable, and we may suspect that exists. Not only the
super-man, but many men also exist or have existed and Mr. Gener who speaks to us, Aryan and Turanian,
Poles, Mongols, Romans and Greeks, no go from being a mere representation. Is thus not really
merit and scientific attitude As Mr. Gener told in other articles
of his book on the history of religions Socialism, etc. It comes down
to poetry, as the same Mr. Gener heroically confesses.

And now I say in conclusion that, considering his book as poetry, is worthy of greater appreciation.
It is highly articulate, entertaining at times, sometimes sublime, and always rich doctrine
of daring, original ideas and clear and well organized presentation of ideas Others suggested
she was alert and raised in every spirit, but is poor and infertile like mine, so great rush
of thoughts and so tangled skein of reasoning, which if not for fear of tiring my readers, I
aquietaría me to write this article, but write a dozen, and I would still much to say. But they
say and Stay in the pipeline for not ending this paper.

The irresponsibility of POETS

ON THE 'ODAS' OF D. Eduardo Marquina

Much can be said for and against the Odes of Mr. D. Eduardo Marquina, but not that is a book
negligible. I give not a little to think about, to inspire in my mind certain philosophical
contradictions or antinomies aesthetic and moral, which I am unable to resolve and I will
present here bluntly and frankly.

Horacio weighted with great enthusiasm, in his Epistle to the rammer,
the teacher under the poetry.

For it shows the right ways of living, the oracles dictate their
sentences, rise the walls of cities and gather in peace the human
race, subject to wise and just laws.

But this same Horace, who gives praise poetry so unique, We rarely
cites Democritus statement claiming that one must be crazy to be a
poet, and is expelled from Helicon who is in his right mind.

Ajústeme you such measures, I say now, and forgive the vulgarity of the phrase. How to reconcile
that poets are the light of the world, our guide and our beacon,
which are both crazy?

Everything is understood if we consider such madness as divine frenzy as sacred fury that infuses
estrus, fixing his sharp thorn in the breast of the bard. This, then owned of divinity, goes on
to say things well above the vulgar sense, and opens to reveal mysteries our startled eyes,
the light amplitude ideal horizon, the orderly succession and prescribed for future cases.

I'll settle and I aquietaría with this if all the poets who predict
that teach or admonish were in agreement, but as they are not unfortunately,
I sink into a sea ??of ??confusion.

So there I exclaim to myself, maybe they are crazy, really crazy, and be with his madness harmful
to the republic. That is why Plato banished them wisely of yours, either as a precaution, and
based on the proverb that says: the mad with grief is sane.

Made the foregoing considerations, yet instead of seeing clear I see dark matter and contradictory.

In
the beautiful eulogy that Heine made our eminent compatriot Rabbi Jehuda ben Levi of Toledo,
after weighing the high qualities of a soul, one supposes that same
God to create it, kissed charmed with her beauty, and the echo resounds
divine kiss resonate with the immortal bard's verses Toledo.

No wonder, therefore, Levi ben Jehuda assuming so supernaturally helped and loved you, that
you proclaim Heine king of the realm of thought and king, by the grace of God, inviolable and
irresponsible. Nobody but God must give account. The people, says Heine, can kill us, but you can
not judge ever. Thus Heine puts truly poetic work on the summit of all human approach and proclaims
with great abandon the irresponsibility of the poets. Let us do sense and how far less casually
such irresponsibility can and should be understood.

What is that sometimes we fall in love and a charm which the poet denies or affirms, commands
or prohibits, commends or censorship, but how smart, sincere and energetic affirm or deny and
express the censure or praise?

Quintana and the Duke of Frias, say, Philip II to portray the most opposed features and colors
and tend to infuse the ideas and feelings contrary on religion and politics of the sixteenth century
Spanish and the causes of the rise and the decline of our people, but we delighted and excited we
almost Like the verses of one or the other poet, now we agree with the Duke, now with Quintana,
in judging the winner of San Quentin and Lepanto, now we cut into the way we looks straight between
the two extremes that they play.

Are we to infer from here the complete disregard of the doctrine that poetry is exposed with such
that poetry is true and that the doctrine is exposed to and by the
grace of God?

This would lead to their ultimate limits denial that poets teach, and declared strong advocate
of art for art. Is further strengthened in my mind this way think, when I look at the works
of other poets perhaps more radically asserted and conflicting. Whether these three contemporary
Italian poets, Manzoni, Leopardi and Carducci. Is not it strange phenomenon that we love the
sacred hymn to the Pentecost, filled with deep Catholic faith and the earnest hope that the
religion of Christ is the final religion of our race, informing and causing all your progress
and improvement, which we also love ode to the sources the Clitumno,
whose inspiration is quite contrary, hailing with joy the poet to
because humanity is reclaimed denies that degrade beliefs and adopts
something way of ancient paganism, and that we love, finally, not
Catholic hopes Manzoni, or heathen hopes of Carducci, but sublime
despair and pessimism Leopardi, who denies God, or calls with frightful
blasphemy ugly hidden power that prevails for damage to all creatures?

Tired I've pondered and pondered to explain this phenomenon. I'll see if it manages to explain here
cipher the result of my musings.

Without doubt, I say, the mental basis of poetry is like the mental foundation of mathematics and
dialectics. There in the human soul certain first principles self-evident, incontrovertible
and unprovable, a certain idea in short, whose development is the law of thought and the science
of calculation. And such an idea is not purely sugetiva, mere form or status of our understanding,
but by faith we are irresistible and we can be sure that in the minds of those beings superior
to man is or may be in other worlds, and even in the same mind supreme must lie the same idea
but more fully developed, comprehensive and penetrating and bathing everything in its pure light
infinite and eternal.

The idea that, unfortunately, although it is in us, only limited and
as the germ, and is true we do not see well what is outside us, but
to reason about what out of us assume that there is construction or
on the ideal of pure thought.

Hence, not affirm that this thing or that, that the whole universe, that whatever is or can
be, is as we perceive or imagine it, but I imagined or perceived,
or say to yourself given the course, everything is linked together,
and made up a harmonious set of truths within our ideal world, although
perhaps not fit or respond accurately to the real world that is outside
of us, which we know very little and maybe have the wrong news by
operation of the senses.

Geometer does not respond to whether or not sphere, cube or cylinder that have solid, or be
circle or triangle of this kind or that what you draw on paper; than it answers is the accuracy of
their theorems and certainty of its demonstrations, given the assumption. Neither answer algebra
than they are worth in reality, the problem points to be resolved, but responds only that the
problem is properly solved. When you apply to reality, it is then or has devolved before determining
the value of each letter.

Thus, being real problem solving and always the same, may well in practice, descending the
reality of things, have many different results.

Is it poetry, I wonder, something like: creating beautiful, true and accurate the ideal world
that has been created, although in reality it is false because it was all course or because the
course was at least incomplete?

In my view, understanding and poetry, have an explanation and apology, not a few things that are told
in verse, which, if told in prose, would appear absurd or abominable
could lead to its author in a society rather severe to the prison
or the madhouse.

The blame for all this lies, to me what I can see, that poetry, which aims the manifestation of beauty
in a sensitive way, can only be imitating the real and real than we imagine, an element that can
be error or lie. Hence the advantage music, art primaveal leads to poetry, art school. The music,
in the perfection its purity, creates beautiful, no need to imitate anything. Believe in time, through
sound, not teach or admonish, but not misleading, or wrong either.

Meditation above all, exposed to exhaust, to sin no verbosity, has used to quiet my mind, after
reading the Odes of D. Eduardo Marquina, and to affirm, without scruple of conscience, which
I think are good and true poet's work.

To grant, however, to such an irresponsible poet Heine speaks, we must not take it seriously,
practical reality, the power of his poetry teacher. Those who took it seriously Aeschylus
in Prometheus Bound, assumed that Jupiter took revenge on his blasphemies
directing its eagle from the air consumption falling leave a huge
turtle that had been in the grip, on the glorious bald venerable playwright,
and jumped the brains.

Let us therefore less so seriously Odes D. Eduardo Marquina to leave in peace with the heavenly
powers and prevent any miracle to harm you.

With this limitation it can be said that the Odes have something by way of Prometheus Bound
Aeschylus, and some also, but accept them as prophecies of Ezekiel's visions and Revelation
from Patmos.

Although all agree that the state of society and the world leaves much to be desired and physical
evil and moral evil is no shortage on earth, I have assured that the Things are bad in our age less
than in previous ages. I have no doubt of progress. What happens is that the moral has been
great progress in relations between individuals with others, while there has been little progress
in the collective life, little in the body social, none of peoples relationships with other
people.