 The
other consonants are used only pronouns, verbs, etc. Adjectives belong to both genders. The numbering
system reaches only three. Finally, the pronunciation is very similar to that of the Moximas and Itonama.

The
character of these Indians is as strange as his face and his language,
far from being sociable and full of candor as the Moxos, or cowardly
as the Itonama, is bold by others, entrepreneurial, independent, cold,
concealed, sad, sullen, unsociable, and Yet little squeamish.

Inclined to theft as Itonama, more daring steal so as with the consciousness of being feared by other
nations, to the extreme that to let them get away with sack in their populations. Justice must
meanwhile hacerseles a beautiful garment, its consequence and fidelity, that they have given repeated
tests. But to Despite this, no longer be considered as a wonderful fact, that with such a character
so easily have been subjected to the yoke of the Jesuits.

According to reports I have collected, their customs should be extremely warlike. Had forts
surrounded by ditches, which lived some of the nation, operating from there incursions into the
territory of its neighbors, Itenes, the Cayuvava and Itonama: latter
were mainly the most persecuted, for being the least countered their
strength.

If we give credence to some relationships, the prisoners who fell into the hands of These Indians
were eaten by them in solemn feasts. Mainly dedicated to fishing and to the game, neglected agriculture,
its industry consisted only in the construction canoes and the manufacture of weapons were
much given to drink and they made use of liquor fermented. Vestíanse just as other nations
in the province.

Noticing in particular the fast rigorous customs of eight days which required girls entering the
marriageable age, and rejoicing and celebrating libation then this happy event. The fear that
they inspired an evil genius named Yinijama, was the main base of
their religion.

As to the skin, shapes and height, Canichana not deviate from the Moxos: for With regard to
customs and to the face, they seem rather to the Toba and Mbocobis
of Chaco.

The singularities of language puts them in parallel with and Chiquiteños Moxos. I, finally,
that belong to the branch moxeño Canichana but that is an anomaly the more strange, since they
are surrounded by people who meet a remarkable character uniformity in all its physical connections.

NATION
OF CAPTURE.

By the time of the conquest of the province of Moxos, inhabited the
plains Movimas west of the Mamore, on the banks of Yacuma, as 14 degrees
latitude south, and between 68 and 69 west of Paris.

They were still divided in many villages located on the banks of
rivers, and were neighbors to the south and southwest to the Moxos,
towards the east to the Canichana, and north to the Cayuvava, separating
them from those nations floodplain forests and spacious.

The complexion of the Movimas is identical to that of the Moxos.

Their average height is five feet and two and a half inches, they are usually arrogant presence,
both men and the women, there are girls of sixteen to seventeen over
can compete with men in strength and bravery.

The ordinary height of wives is five feet, thus far superior to the
proportion that should save with men.

The shapes of the Movimas are at least as robust as those of Moxos, and entirely the same as to
the details, with the only difference being that the women involved something from those of
men.

The features of his face, filled with more sweetness, also the similar to those Indians, there
is however a large number of women, who not only have a manly, but no such delicate features that
characterize the male of this nation, usually the Movimas nose is a bit wider than that of
the Moxos.

The language of the Movimas, but different from the others in the
province on the merits, looks like a lot, the hardness of their sounds
and the difficulty of their pronunciation, that of Canichana and Itonama,
with maybe even harder than these.

Is also in the composition of their words many consonants together as tch, ch, chl, jn, jl,
jr, LJ and ts, which produce sounds very harsh, almost all the voices end in a vowel, the very few that
deviate from the rule, ending in the consonants l, n, w, p, s, ch ch French and Spanish. Often
used the Spanish j, or nasal and the f are unknown. For the rest, language does not offer this
apparent anomaly: the adjectives fit to both genders. The numbering system is no more than
four, nor have any relation with the number of fingers.

The nature of the Movimas, that all seems to of Moxos, is animated by an excessive goodness
and more pronounced instinct of sociability.

Judging from their current way of living, customs should be also identical to those of Moxos,
consisting of their occupations in fishing, sailing, hunting and agriculture. Its industry, its
governmental system and likens religion to the nation even mentioned. The evil genius, which determined
their misfortunes, was called Caniba Kilmer. Fearing covered with leprosy, these Indians never
killed a snake, and those widowed were kept well to kill a leopard, persuaded that if they
did, they too succumb.

Finally, the total compliance of physical and moral circumstances
that exists between Movimas and Moxos, tear me to believe that both
nations to the same branch, not differentiating but by an entirely
different language, and perhaps by the more or less body strength.

Cayuvava NATION [1]

This nation lived on the west bank of the Mamore, fifteen leagues above the confluence of this
river with Guaporé or Iten, on those plains interspersed with marshes and small boscages that
characterize those fields. Spread over the Cayuvava Vivian small tribes, whose populations
it spread on the banks of that great river, and small tributaries of the western plains [2], between
12 and 13 degrees latitude south, and towards the 68 west longitude from Paris. They had for
neighbors to the south to the Movimas, Itenes to the east, to the Kings Maropas towards the
west, to the Pacaguaras Beni River towards the north, being separated, particularly the latter
two nations, by dilatadísimos deserts [3].

For the complexion, the high carriage of the men, their robust forms, its members burly, his features
regular and graceful, her countenance sweet, Cayuvava resemble Moxos and if your general aspect
is covered with a little more seriously, the rest meet every physical character of this nation.

Cayuvava
language differs from other dialects of the province at the bottom
of the words, as though it has some analogy with Itonama languages,
and Movima Canichana by the roughness of many sounds, however, is
more euphonious.

The complication of sound consonants together too often: the consonants together and dj dx,
prefixed to members, is a bit hard, however, the second consonant sound always remains soft
pronunciation of French or Spanish. Also be warned, among the sounds peculiar to the tongue,
nasal or weakly, the x, to move, the ch and some completions and an ain, the only noticeable at
the end of a limited number of voices, they all invariably end up in a vowel. The guttural sound
of the Spanish j is very common, and the ch of this language, missing only the l in the alphabet
of the language, otherwise free of anomalies. Adjectives adhere to both genders. The counting
system has no relation to the number of fingers, but has a remarkable feature. The numbers, which usually
only unite to the other after ten in the Cayuvava system starts to collect from the six. All American
languages ??have different names for the units, and have then ten and one, etc.., while Cayuvava
reach up to five only, and go on to say, for six, Carat ribobo (one and five), for the seven,
Mitya ribobo (two and five), and Thus ten, beginning after the tens, and telling all, only up
to one hundred.

The nature of the Cayuvava has a lot of analogy with the Moxos, and it may well be said it is more
noble. In the extreme, courageous, bold "enterprising, industrious, honest and loyal Indian
warriors were those most feared by other nations, their weapons consisted
in the bow and arrows also drove the spear, and marched to battle
organized phalanges captained by special chiefs.

Your religion was founded on the belief of a being protector of all things, called Idaapa, and
an evil genius, author of all evil, called Mainajé. Admitted these Indians the immortality
of the soul, and as Itonama, believed duty to prevent escape death
a dying body, covering her mouth wide and nose.

The men interrupted their Monthly jobs during the indisposition of their wives, and dared not
take anything some while they were widowed.

Despite the language difference, the Cayuvava is too similar to the Moxos in character and other
physical and moral circumstances, that do not belong to the same branch these.

NATION OF ITENE.

This nation seems to have given its name to the river coming down
from this to go and meet with Mamore towards 12 degrees south latitude.

Items which occupied the territory between Itenes and Mamore rivers,
extending his thirty leagues towards the north, from the angle the
reunion of these rivers: the population was composed of small villages
scattered throughout the inland, in the middle of the woods, or on
the banks of streams that drain in the Mamore.

Circumscribed between 12 and 13 degrees south latitude, and longitude 67 and 68 West had for
neighbors to the south to the Canichana, towards the north-west to the Movimas; west to the Cayuvava.

These
were no different from natural and Cayuvava Moxos, his complexion, form and features are completely
identical, would say only that her face is covered with some more seriousness.

The language of the Itenes differs from the other languages ??of the province and to the merits
the pronunciation, but some words of their dialect and the Chapacuras, whose close analogy is
the effect of chance, I do believe there was once some contact between
these two nations, without which it ceases to notice a marked difference
in their own language.

That of Itenes undoubtedly is the most terse, the sweetest and euphonious language of all Americans,
all words end in a vowel, not is one that contains in its composition
hard consonants.

Guttural sounds and nose are unknown, and the compounds of consonants are only of the union
of b with z French, but not unpleasant to the ear hurt. The letters f, g, j, l, x are totally
strangers. No abnormality observed no nouns, adjectives belong to the same time to the masculine
and feminine. Finally, in all languages the childs is the simplest in their pronunciation, and
the more laconic in their ways, often Broadcast one sound enough to describe an object. The numbering
system reaches only five, and has no relation to the number of fingers.

If the natural character of these bears little resemblance to that of Moxos, bears some resemblance
to that of the Canichana. By other independent and haughty, brave to be reckless, indomitable
warriors, not between them lacked candor and kindness.

Intrepid hunters and fishermen tireless, are both good farmers. These Indians never were cannibals.

Its industry was limited to little.

Sabian protect and painting, but his greatest skill lay in the manufacture of weapons, their
arrows had a bone at the tip very sharp, and were adorned with thousands of curious work. Their
canoes were, like today, very long and narrow, their drinks similar
to those of the other Indians of the province had their faces painted,
and on days gala head adorned with feathers artfully arranged.

In fact, his government was reduced to nothing: the chiefs had no authority, and charge was limited
to captain the hosts who were heading into battle.

All your religion was founded on the fear instilled in them an evil genius named Tumeké.

The physical circumstances of the Itenes are entirely identical to those of the Moxos, their
habits make them similar to Canichana, while his language, the more
soft and sonorous throughout the province, contains, in spite of the
difference in pronunciation, similar voices the language of the Chapacuras.

Finally, Itenes clearly belong to the same branch The Moxos.

NATION OF PACAGUARAS.

The Pacaguaras, who lived at the confluence of the Beni and Mamore river, towards 10 degrees
south latitude and between 67 and 68 west longitude, composing large
populations located within the forests that adorn the banks of these
vault of rivers.

Found out, so to speak, the territory of the province, these Indians
belong to those numerous nations scattered on the banks of the Rio
Madeira, and the Amazon and its tributaries.

Bordered by the south with Itenes and Cayuvava, and only relate to the past.

Her complexion is equal to that of the Moxos, his stature seems smaller, but its forms and factions
meet completely the same characters, but by gravity, breathing her face perhaps Cayuvava more closely
resemble.

If your language is different, in principle, the latter, has however some connections with it, as
regards the pronunciation, and not without its hardness some analogy with Itonama languages,
and Movima Canichana.

There is also the pacaguara complication of consonant sounds together, such as tz, ts, dj,
JN, now with the pronunciation entirely guttural Spanish, now with the soft of the French. Frequently
Encuéntranse ch z and of these, as well as his or nose. Almost every word ending in a vowel,
and only excepting the sounds are made, ending in on, ch an and French, with none of them is hard. The
letters f, lyx is unknown. Adjectives serve at once to the two genres. The numbering system extends
only to ten, and probably agrees the number of fingers.

The nature of Pacaguaras resembles that of the Cayuvava; like this, practice hospitality, and
cherish benevolence, honesty and loyalty, linking to these virtues of fearlessness and courage.

With
respect to customs, there is also between them and a big Moxos compliance.

Constantly engaged in navigation, fishing, hunting and agriculture, remained always peaceful, and avoided
any enmity with their neighbors, living with them in perfect harmony.

Its industry is confined to the tissue of genres for clothing, manufacturing weapons, and the construction
of canoes similar to those of the Moxos.

Their chiefs were regarded as mere advisers, his religion taught them to believe in called Huara
be beneficial, and an evil spirit known under the name of Yochina,
but did not profess a religion without.

In short, it is believed that the positively Pacaguaras belong to
the branch of Moxos on account of the similarity of physical and moral
characteristics.

NATION OF CHAPACURAS [1]

The Chapacuras lived scattered on the banks of the Rio Blanco or Baures, not far from a big lake,
and amid the forests that separate the provinces of Chiquitos and Moxos beyond the last hill of
the first province, and a little more or less to 15 degrees south latitude and between 64 and
65 west longitude meridian of Paris. Had for neighbors (including those not connected by the ex
away) to the Chapacuracas and Paiconecas towards the south, and the
hordes of the tribe of the Baures north.

The complexion of the Chapacuras is tanned or greenish-brown, thus identical to that of the Chiquitos.
His stature has also some analogy with these, the median is five
feet and one-half inches, the highest not exceeding five feet and
five inches.

The wives kept in a relatively large size.

Their body shapes are similar to those of the Chiquitos, but the size of men seems more desvahido,
and although members have a strong build, and no visible muscles, Outgoing chest, broad shoulders,
and his whole body in the extreme, robust, not prone to obesity. The women, better educated
and more graceful than Chiquiteñas, have the hips and broad shoulders,
waist, but according to European proportions, and a feet and hands
were remarkable for their smallness.

His features are also somewhat different: both sexes are, a head large, a broad face, but less crowded
than that of the Chiquitos, bunions of the most delivered a short and slightly curved front, a short
nose, flat but rather wide, and windows wide open, mouth medium, slightly thick lips, small eyes
and horizontal ears small, narrow, arched eyebrows, black hair, long, thin and very stiff nothing.
His face is gloomy and less animated than the Chiquitos. In general, men are ugly, and have
very black beard, sparsely populated and limp, like the bozo: between wives rarely is a regular
face, but why not inspire aversion, meanwhile, the general appearance
of the two sexes captive trust, and all the sweetness in them announces.

Their

language is entirely distinct from the languages ??of Chiquitos, as to the form of words and although
very hard, is pleasant to the ear: it has many voices in vocal completed, the number of those that
end in single consonants n, m, p, tyj is reduced. The guttural the Spanish j and nasal or are
often. Many consonants, such as b, f, c and x, appear to be completely unknown, and while
the French ch rare, is frequently used Spanish. In this language is seen as in the Chiquiteños,
a particularity relative to the names of body parts, instead principles with a specific letter,
end with a uniform particle, as seen in urutarachi (Darling) taipatachi (ear), tucuchi (eyes),
objects that designate Chiquitos Quitemocas with the words urutaraché, tatiataché and coated. I have
not noticed any distinction between male and feminine adjectives, nor a special form for plurals.
The system numbering, which only reaches to ten, no doubt based on the number of fingers. The tribe
has many terms Quitemocas entirely different from those of the language chapacura, which perhaps
comes from old relationships with any foreign nation.

The Chapacuras, though left by temperament, have them extremely loving
nature, and predisposes them to servile obedience; hospitable to foreigners,
are perhaps Indians most sociable of the province, even without the
joy of the Chiquiteños.

Their habits are similar to those of the natives, and lived like them,
scattered small tribes in the interior of the surrounding forests
on the banks of the Rio Blanco or Baures, seized and hunting, and
cultivating the land, or to build the thatched huts where their families
lived.

Their weapons, neither more nor less than those of the Chiquitos, were composed of bow, arrows,
and a club or two-edged nails. Also built, hollow trees, these canoes that went through the White
River, to go to hunting and fishing, their occupations Favourite after harvest of maize. These
Indians also liked to gather for drink fermented liquors, this being a perpetual plea dances
and games, less animated by the way that the Chiquiteños. Peaceful in the extreme, rarely alienated
their neighbors.

The men were entirely naked, and the more, covered the top of the any skin legs. The women wore
the tipoy, a kind of sleeveless shirt they fell to the ankles. Both sexes were allowed to grow
hair, constantly bañándoselo oil of palm fronds.

They were still ruled by chiefs, meanwhile, whose authority was limited to giving advice and placed himself
at the head of each tribe in the event of war.

When one of his men died, had the precaution of burying it along with their weapons, This proves
that believed in another life: finally, respected the ruling and forecasts of doctors, and
were slaves to endless superstitions.

NATION OF Marope.

The Maropas occupied the great valley of the Beni river at the foot of the wooded hills and wetlands
the last rolling hills of the Bolivian Andes, their populations were
located on Beni course itself, having as neighbors to the south and
Tacanas towards the west, to the Cayuvava Moxos towards the east,
and some savage tribes, little known, towards the north.

The Maropas have little more or less the complexion of the Mocetenes,
perhaps a bit more bronzed, however without the characteristic color
of Moxos. His height does not exceed that of Tacanas, with, usually,
five feet and one inch