 That will come
your time. You are who repels. But one day be more than you.

The certainty that death would eventually beat Stephen kindled, making step care. He appealed
to supercharging as the only remedy, and always approaching Gabriel,
was with something in their hands.

- Eat this .... Drink what you
bring.

And he struggled with that broken body, with an upset stomach by poverty, with injured lungs
and heart subject to disruption in the operation, with the machine
battered by a human life of suffering and emotions.

The constant watch over the sick man had disrupted the economic life of Stephen. Their mean
poor salary and choirmaster support barely sufficient for that mouth-consuming more than all
the house together. Later this month, Stephen implore the help of Rod silver to finish the last
few days, thus entering into the submissive and miserable gray tied to the usury of the priest.
Other times, the chapel master, living for a moment in reality, we
gave a few pesetas, sacrificing the enjoyment of getting a new score.

Gabriel guess the hardships that the brother was undergoing, and wanted to contribute to the
costs of the house. But what work could be found in isolation within the cathedral? Longed one placed
at the temple earlier this month to collect a few pesetas hands the Silver Stick, not be so
burdensome to her brother.

But all the seats were occupied; only death could open holes, and there were many hungry people
waiting for the occasion, claiming family rights.

His inability to be helpful to the brother and the sacrifice of it
is less expensive was so saddened to Gabriel, disturbing the placid
monotony of their existence.

Asked Esteban what could do to not be idle, and the brother responded with its expression kind:

-
Taking care nothing but take care.

You have no other obligation than to keep your health. I'm here for the rest.

Easter came, and Gabriel found time to earn some wages. Iban raise in the cathedral's famous Monument
in the choir and the door of forgiveness. It was a factory heavy and complicated, sumptuous Baroque
style, which had cost at the beginning of the century a fortune to the second Cardinal de Bourbon.
A forest of timber scaffolding was Monument, the wealth of the cardinal
had made a solid waste and luxury, and to build the sacred coffin
many days were needed and not a few workers.

Gabriel was seen with Don Antolin, asking a place in the work