 The brother had protected its withdrawal, but
spite of this, the sensible Elena moaned through tears thinking of the German: "Poor thing!
All against it! "Meanwhile, the wife of Desnoyers retained his father in his office appealing
to all his daughter's influence judiciously. The French went in search of Karl, bad parts even
the terrible surprise, and gave him a horse to be moved immediately to the nearest railway
station.

Left the room, but did not stay single long. After a few days, "the Romantica left behind him ...
Iseo "of the white hands" went in search of the gentleman Tristan.

Madariaga's desperation was not violent and deafening, as he hoped his son. For first time he saw him
mourn.

Robust and happy old age suddenly disappeared.

In an hour seemed to have lived ten years. As a child, wrinkled and trembling, clung to Desnoyers,
wetting neck with her tears.

- It has been born! The son of a great flea ... it has been!

This time he did not regret the responsibility for their china. Wept beside her, and as if
to comfort with a public confession, he said repeatedly:

- For my sins ... Everything has been my very great sins.

Began for Desnoyers a period of difficulties and conflicts. The fugitives sought in one of his
visits to the capital, imploring his protection. "The Romantica wept, saying only his brother,
"the most gentlemanly man in the world" could save her. Karl looked like a faithful dog who
trusts his master. These interviews were repeated in all his travels. Then, upon returning
to the room, was the grumpy old man, silent, staring before him,
as though he saw something invisible to others, and suddenly saying:
"It is a punishment: the penalty for my sins.

"The memory of his early relations with Germany, before take him to the room, he was tormented
as a regret. Some evenings was saddled a horse, set off at full gallop to the nearest town. He did
not go in search of ranch hospital. Needed to spend some time in the church, speaking alone
with the images, which were there just for him, as it was he who had paid bills acquisition ...
"For my fault, through my most grievous fault."

But in spite of his repentance, Desnoyers had to work hard to get him a settlement. When I spoke
to regularize the situation of the fugitives, facilitating procedures
necessary for marriage, not let him continue.

"Do what you want, but do not tell me of them. "It took many months. One day, the French came
up with some mystery. "Elena has a son, and called him in July as to you. "

- And you, you big useless - shouted the farmer - and the cow loose your wife live quietly without giving
me a grandchild ... Ah, Frenchy! So the Germans end up piggybacking on you. You see, the bandit
has a son and you, after four years of marriage ... nothing. Need a grandson, do you understand?

To
console himself for this lack of children at home, went to the ranch foreman Celedonio where
a small band of mestizos were gathered, fearful and hopeful, about
the pattern old.

China suddenly died. Poor Misia Petrona went quietly, as he had lived, trying to in the last
minute to avoid any disappointment to her husband asking for forgiveness with his eyes by
inconvenience that could cause his death.

Elena came in the room to see the body his mother, and Desnoyers, who had more than a year
holding back the fugitives the father, took the opportunity to overcome this anger.

- Forgive her - said the landowner after a long resistance -. I do it for the poor deceased
and you. To stay at the ranch and that comes with it the gringo scoundrel.

No

treatment. The German would be an employee under the command of Desnoyers, and the couple live
in the administration building, as if they belonged to the family.

Never would lead word to Karl.

But just saw him coming, spoke to treat the "you", giving him orders rudely as same to a stranger.
After always passed along to him as if she knew. Finding at home to accompany Helen's older sister,
also went ahead. In vain, "the romantic" transfigured by maternity, took advantage of every opportunity
to put before him small and repeated his name loudly, "July ... July. "

- A son of gringo singer, skinned and white-haired kid carrot, want that is my grandson ... I
prefer to those of Celedonio.

And for more protests, entered the house of the overseer, distributing handfuls to the small
fry pesos.

After seven years of marriage made the wife of Desnoyers felt he was going to be a mother.
Her sister already had three children.

But what they worth to Madariaga, compared with grandson I was going to go? "It will be a man
- said firmly - because I need it as well. Be called in July, and I want to look my poor deceased.
"Since the death of his wife, who no longer called "China's" felt something like a posthumous
love for that poor woman who had so endured during his life, always shy and silent. "My poor deceased"
came to every time rancher in talks with the obsession of a regret.

His wishes were fulfilled.

Luisa gave birth to a boy, who was named in July, and although did
not show in their facial features, sketched still a strong resemblance
to her grandmother, her hair and black eyes and pale-brown complexion.

Welcome! ... This was one grandchild.

And with the generosity of joy, allowed the German entry into her
home to attend to the feast of the baptism.

When Julio Desnoyers was four, his grandfather as horseback riding
through the room, placing it in the front seat.

Going from ranch to ranch to show the populace copper, as an old
king who has to his heir.

Later, when the grandson able to speak loosely, be entertained for hours talking with him in
the shade of eucalyptus. Beginning to be marked in the old some mental decline. Pussy yet, but
his aggressiveness was taking a childish character.

Even in the largest expansions of love is worth the contradiction, bother looking at his relatives.

-
Come here, false prophet! - Said to his grandson -. You are a gringo.

July protesting as if insulted. His mother had taught him that he was Argentine, and Father we recommend
adding Spanish, to please my grandfather.

- Well, because unless you Frenchy - continued the rancher - he shouts: "Down with Napoleon!"

And
he looked around to see if it was close Desnoyers, cause to believe that a big hassle. But the
son went on, shrugging his shoulders.

- Down with Napoleon! - Said in July.

And had the hand immediately, while grandfather sought their pockets.

Karl's sons, who were already four, and moved around the grandfather as a humble chorus kept
at a distance, watched with envy these gifts. To please, a day just saw him resolutely approached,
shouting in unison, "Down with Napoleon!"

- Gringos bold! - Roared the old -. That is what you have taught them the scoundrel of his father.
If you keep coming back, the run to rebencazos ... Insulting and
to a great man!

This blonde offspring tolerated, but not allow any privacy.

Desnoyers and wife took the defense of their nephews, their fairness. And to quench comments
of its dislike looking to Celedonio, the best of the listeners, then replied to all: "Yes, pattern.
" "So be, boss."

- They are not at fault - the old saying - but I can not love them. Moreover, as like his father,
as white, carrot-haired frayed, and the two largest wearing eyeglasses the same as if they were
write! ... They do not seem people with those glasses: sharks appear.

Madariaga had never seen sharks, but he imagined them, without knowing why, with Glass round
eyes like pieces of broken glass.

At the age of eight years, July was a rider. "A horse Peoncita!" Grandpa
ordered.

Y out at a gallop over the fields, like sparks from among the thousands and thousands of cattle
horned. The "Peoncita" proud of his title, was due at all to master. And thus learned to pull
the loop to the bulls, leaving them trapped and defeated, to jump fences wire to his little horse,
a boat to save a deep hole to slide over the gullies, but not often shoot under his saddle.

-
Ah, gaucho fine! - Grandfather said, proud of these achievements -. Take five pesos to gave him
a handkerchief to one China.

The old man, in his growing mental Confused, did not give an exact account of the relationship between
passions and years. And the child rider, to keep the money, he wondered what china was that
and why should you a gift.

Desnoyers had to start his son the lessons of the grandfather. It was useless to him to do teachers
come in July or trying to send to the school of your stay. Madariaga kidnapped his grandson,
escaping together to take the field. The father ended up installing a child in a high school
in the capital when it was over eleven years. Then, the old set attention in the sister of
Julio, who was only three years, taking it, and the other, ranch to ranch on the front of
his saddle. Everyone called Chichi to the daughter of Chicha but the grandfather gave him
the title "Peoncita" as his brother. And Chichi, which raised strong and rustic, breakfasting
with meat and talking in her sleep of roast easily followed hobbies the old. She was dressed like a
boy, he rode the same as men, and to merit title 'gaucho fine' conferred
by the grandfather, had a knife in the back of the belt.

The two were in the fields from sunrise to sunset. Madariaga still seemed like a flag braid rippling
of the Amazon. This, at nine, and skillfully threw his lasso to the cattle.

What most irritated the rancher was that the family remembered his old age. Councils Desnoyers
to remain calm in the house welcomed them as insults. And advanced years, was more aggressive
and reckless, taking extreme activity, as if she wanted to scare to death. Allowed only help
of his mischievous "Peoncita." When to go riding came the Karl's children, who were already a big boy
to hold the stirrup, with snorts repelled indignation.

- Do you think I can not hold me? ... Even while I have life, and those who wait I die to grab
my weights are disappointed.

The German and his wife, kept apart in the life of the stay, had to suffer in silence these references.
Karl, in need of protection, living under the shadow of the French, taking advantage every
opportunity to overwhelm with his praise. I could never thank him enough for what he did for
him. It was his only defense. I wanted a chance to show his gratitude:
to die for him if necessary.

The wife admired his brother with great extremes of enthusiasm: "The gentleman most accomplished of
the earth. "And Desnoyers silently thanked the membership, recognizing that German was an excellent
companion. As available at all of the family fortune, Karl generously help without the old would
know. It was he who took the initiative so they could perform most of their illusions. The German
dream of a visit to his country. So many years in America! ... Desnoyers, therefore they had
no desire to return to Europe wanted to facilitate this desire to his brothers, and gave Karl
means that it might be the trip with his family. The old man wanted to know who paid for his
expenses. "Let them go - said with joy - and never return. "

The absence was not long.

Spent in three months what they had for a year.

Karl, who had made known to his relatives the great fortune that
meant their marriage, wanted to appear like a millionaire, in full
possession of their wealth.

Elena became transfigured, talking to pride of his relatives, the
baron, Colonel of Hussars, the commander of the Guard, the court counselor,
stating that all peoples were negligible beside the homeland of her
husband.

So it took some air protection praising Desnoyers, a man Well, certainly, but "not born",
"mongrel", and also French. Karl, however, expressed the same commitment as before, remaining
submissive modesty behind his brother. This was the keys to the box and was their only defense
against the terrible old ... He had left his two older children at
school in Germany.

Years later they were dating the same fate other grandchildren of the rancher, which he considered
unfriendly and inconvenient, "with hairs carrot and shark eyes. "

The old man was now alone. He had taken his second "Peoncita." The severe Chicha not could tolerate
her daughter be bred as a boy, riding at all hours and repeating
thick words of his grandfather.

I was at school in the capital, and the nuns educators had to struggle greatly to overcome the
rebellion and wickedness of their brave student.

On returning to Julio and Chichi stay during the holidays, focused his favorite grandfather in the
first, as if the girl had only been a substitute. Desnoyers conduct complained somewhat disordered
child. Was no longer in school.

His life was that of a student rich family that remedies the parsimony of their parents with
all sorts of imprudent lending. But Madariaga came out in defense of his grandson. "Ah, fine gaucho
!...» Seeing the room, admired his kindness handsome. Tempted him to convince the arms of his strength
will did talk about their fights at night, as a valiant champion of young bands licentious,
called street gangs in the argot of the capital. He wanted to go to Buenos Aires to admire
about the gay life. But alas! he had sixteen years and his grandson.

He had already gone from the eighties.

- Come, false prophet! Tell
me how many children you have ... Because you must have many children!

-
Dad! - Protested Chicha, which was always close, fearing the evil
teachings of his grandfather.

- Let's grind! - He shouted, irritated
-. I know what I'm saying.

Paternity inevitably contained in all
its romantic fantasies. He was almost blind, and the agony of his
eyes was accompanied by a growing mental disorder. His senile insanity
took on a lewd character, expressing itself in language which scandalized
or made everyone laugh the stay.

- Ah, a thief, and how cute you
are! - Watching his grandson said with eyes that saw only pale Shadows
-. The spitting image of my poor deceased ... Have fun, your grandpa
is here with his pesos. If you'd only to have what you give away your
father would live like a hermit. The frog is the hard fist: there
partying with him as possible. But I think of you, Peoncita. Spend
and triumphs, that's what your Tatica has collected silver.

When
the grandchildren were leaving the room, amused his solitude by going
from ranch to ranch. A mature mixed on the stove was boiling water
for their mate. The old thought confusedly that it might be his daughter.
Another offered him fifteen years of bitter zucchini liquid spliff
with silver to sip. A granddaughter, perhaps, though he was not sure.
And so I would evening, still and silent, sipping mate after mate,
surrounded by families who watched him with admiration and fear.

Each
time he took his horse for these excursions, his eldest daughter protested.
"At eighty and four years! Was not it better to stay quietly at home?
Any day they would regret a disgrace ... "And unfortunately wine.
The horse became a dark pattern with slow step and without a rider.
The old man was shot in a hill, and when I picked up was dead ...
Thus ended the centaur, as he had always lived, with the whip hanging
from the wrist and bowed legs, the curve of the mounting.

His will
he kept a clerk Spanish in Buenos Aires almost as old as him