 Did he fallen
below the vault and picked the best of their husbands?

XX

After the brief spell that caused him so unusual noises, Rosalie ran to Gasparini, and there, Holy
God, saw a show incomprehensible. Bringas was in the middle of the room broken face, scary-pale,
her hands clenched, his eyes wide open very open ... A mueblecillo, that side of the table was
the pileup of shellac and the alcohol lamp to heat, had fallen pushed by the artist when it is rose
hastily from his chair. The spirit spilled on the carpet burned vagorosa flame. Candida dealt
with swiftly when off, stepping, for which he had to rise skirts up near the knee. Was jumping
and went to the weight of your foot where the flame was alive, but also ran the floor shellac
liquid hot which is very sticky substance, the soles of the venerable lady clung so heavily to
the floor, I could not, without a medium effort, lifted.

Rosalie went straight to her husband, who, feeling around, grabbed her with anxiety seizure,
and turning his eyes everywhere, seemed to find something that eluded
him.

His face expressed terror so intense, that his wife did not remember
seeing anything like it.

"What ?...»-- was all her, her dismay, she could say.

Bringas rubbed his eyes, opened them again, and moving much the eyelids,
like poets when they read his poems, said in a tone that tore:

"I
see!

... I see! ".

Rosalie could not add anything, such was his terror.

Garcia the Great, who had mastered fire, but not completely prevent
the adherence of his boots to the floor, went to pitiful group ...

"That
will not be anything" - he said noting that strange look of D. Francisco.

-
Where is the window, the window ?...-- moaned the most desperately
unhappy.

- There, there, you do not see ?...-- Rosalie shouted, turning
toward the light.

- No, I do not see, do not see you, I see nothing
... Complete darkness, absolute ... All black ...

- Ah, that damn
job ... Well I told you, well you said it all ... But it will happen
...

Rosalia was more dead than alive ... Do not think of anything.

The penalty was choking. Candida, proceeding more calmly, he began to make arrangements.

"Sentémosle on the couch ... Now should call the doctor.

"

We approached the sofa and collapsed on him sick with despair, as
if it would drop in his coffin.

Palpable object, felt to his wife, or a point left him.

"Well we told you - he repeated, drowning in tears and hiding the
dissonance of the voice -.

That damn hair piece ... working all day ... If you could feel eyestrain,
why Why continue?

".

- My children, where are they? - Muttered Bringas.

Near the door were Isabelita and Alfonsin, terrified, silent, not daring to step: the small
as the bread for a snack in hand, chewing slowly, the girl would be, with hands behind his back,
watching the sad group of distraught parents. Rosalie told them approach. I felt Bringas, diols
thousand kisses, lamenting not being able to see, and predicting that no longer would ever. More
tears spilled the poor in that quarter of an hour in all his previous life, and Pipaón, considering
that sudden misfortune that God sent him, conceptualized punishing the faults he had committed. It
was necessary to order out from there to young. Retaining prudence
in Furriel and not let them pass.

Inspired Isabelita care for fear that the strong impression he received a disorder produjese
spasmodic more serious than previous ones. Meanwhile, Mrs. García Grande, most obsequious and helpful
with friends at the critical times, she dedicated her existence to be useful.

"I will go for the doctor. You'll see how this tells us nothing. I had a thing that I learned
the point of Flanders. I suddenly felt a disturbance rare At the
hearing, then I began to see objects halved.

All stood in a sharp pain head. Call that ophthalmic migraine. I remember hearing my doctor
say that in some cases is completely lost sight for a few hours a day ... Serénese you, my
friend D. Francisco, and take a glass of water with a little wine. Back soon.

Came out diligently, with sincere desire to serve, and not finding a doctor who lived in the house went
to get the call. While they were alone, Bringas and his wife barely spoke. She could not stop
looking at him, hoping that when he least expected it, they gain
those astonished eyes the most precious gift for which they were raised,
he began to exercise the sense peculiar to the blind, touch, and I
saw her hands, and shaking it, and palpating loving and carefully.

A single word, sighs and lamentations of the poor sick were the only verbal expression of that
sad scene, the more silent eloquent.

The doctor came at last.

Candida, would not let the hand to enter with him into the house. It was an old affable, old-school,
excellent diagnostician, shy to prescribe and as I said, unfortunate.

Aware of the history of the case, called evil retinal congestion.

"In the retina - supported Candida -. It happens. Soon regain sight, but the work of hair, buddy,
you model terminated. "

- If I say, if I announced - the Bringas said briskly, with the hopes revived giving the doctor
-. And now ...?

The doctor prescribed bed rest, diet, and the next day a derivative. Also ordered black bandage,
a soothing light for in case of insomnia, and offered to come early next morning to examine the
eyes of the patient detention. It was late, and last sunlight was leaving the room gloomily.
When the kindly old man withdrew, Brinker and his wife were more
animated.

"Nothing, my children, not be rushed - they said Candida, both of whose useful informal served
as a great comfort -. Now sleep ... and sleep if you can. Nothing
to fear, or think as not to be.

Serenity and a little patience. It's a matter of hours or a couple of days at most. I undertake to
bring medicines and as needed. Accompany them well all night, if necessary ...».

When the helpful lady came to the pharmacy, Rosalie and her husband had retired after to sell a large
piece of black silk. Like any fledgling blind, Bringas affected no need of foreign help to
undress, and learning about the distress of his wife, had revive the heroism of loving expressions,
as if he were a healthy and she's sick.

"Probably this will happen ... But it is tiresome. Not a chance I do not like this. Relax, I'll
take it patiently, and very nearly the beginning and to get used ... I am very glad of not having
to call an eye doctor as these, though healed, always cost an arm
and a leg.

"

The night passed without any notable success, Bringas worried sick with excruciating pain cephalalgic
and eyes, Rosalia awake, sharing their care and monitoring within the blind husband and epileptic
girl, who was rushed to nightmares more alarming than those of ordinary scenes because of that afternoon
vividly excited. By that of all Candidita accompanied her troubled friend the night, comforting
her with his presence and by paying very effective aid. It was very typical for such cases and knew
a thousand little things medical supplies domestic.

In the early settlement was difficult, never be cowed, nor his drumsticks known bone fatigue.

At dawn, more or less, Rosalia, losing sleep, fell asleep in a chair facing the bed marriage
where Thiers good lay, dormant since, and so was the lady fall drowsiness that it will start
to see the Torres and his famous beard and nose. Also offered his view the sum, which was in part
after part, developing their units on lengthy space and saw the urgent
time that day that dawned threatening ... Suddenly the wretched Recobrose
opening his eyes.

She thought she heard a ay! Rosalia, but his dream must have been because the holy man seemed
calm, measured breath and stated that at last he fell asleep really.

"Torres ... money! - Rosalie thought, shaking his head to ward off that idea, as if this were
a nuisance to him pose in front -. And under what circumstances, my God !...».

XXI

But almost at once that such said Vinolé quickly thought, as these rays celestial mysticism that speaks,
a saving idea, an easy, efficacious, oh derived oddities of life!, in the same distressing
situation in which the family was. What things does God! He knows why he does them.

Rose from the chair quietly and with great pause to avoid waking the
patient.

I knew what I had to do. The thing was clear and easy. What could not be done the day before,
would at that as evil. She had thought several times in the silver candlesticks, but How unselfish
commitment to D. Francisco, a man of such good eye, found out ...? It could be I could be! ...
She would care to replace them in place, bringing together very soon money necessary for the performance,
and so her husband would notice anything when he regained view. Would to God and St. Lucia this out
soon! May not be enough the product of the chandeliers for getting of the amount he needed, besides
money Torres, he needed the second term of Sobrino Hermanos, decided
to unite the above pieces of shiny silver screws that had ears, Augustine
donation Caballero.

Bringas could not feel the need, and if by chance noticed by passing the hand through face,
she would say anything, I'd say ...

That they had been taken as a sign of mourning.

Doña Candida was coming as a template for the credit operation planned. Found her in the dining
room, happy ever after, as savvy, as awake as if I had not had a bad night. Rosalie took the point
chocolate, so your friend hiciese his taste which had drinking.

While a respectable lady took care of this with the thoroughness that always put in such a pleasant
operation, her friend took their projects. Whispers were heard for a while intimate, and saw
himself doing Candida head nod, enough to provide security to the same question.

"Before noon you're all done. Calm yourself ... For these things I'm worth yo a friend who is
a lynx ... Stealth, activity, understanding, everything is, and dispatches these commissioned
by Jesus to say. "

There is reason to believe that by that time, the second stage of its decline, was beginning
Candida to see in person the Monte de Piedad and lending houses, either for business their
own convenience, either to provide a sensitive service to any friend of many confidence. This
Maximo Manso called the second way to Dona Candida, and I note There was still a third way much
more pathetic.

Everything was arranged, then, that morning so easily and quickly like there Grande García said,
because they were not half past eleven when she was back with the
money.

Took him Rosalia forward and was glad to have enough to meet Torres
and Sobrino, atencioncillas maintaining a rest for a little more or
less.

"I do not know how to thank you ...-- said vehemently to his illustrious friend, shaking hands -.
Everything will soon return home, because I like my jewelry to make these trips; and only by
a great need ...».

No one knows how he pushed the conversation to a certain apurillo who had, by calmly a rogue
administrator ... Within two or three days ... How do those who deny this please had behaved so
well? Rosalie thought he tore a piece of his heart when you were among the ten hard hands with
thirst-quenching metal of his friend. But there was no choice.

Dona Candida became very joyful to see Bringas, who said that felt better, although very weak
in the head. The doctor had examined in the morning and prognosis was favorable. Soon regain sight
... y. .. Even thought he saw something when departed the band ... What was needed was a lot
of rest, patience and take with method and timeliness prescribed medicines.

"Who has come?" - Bringas asked sharply.

- I think it is Mr. Torres - said Candida - which has come to ask you.

- I have head so weak and yet so upset, I thought I heard counting money ... Although not want,
and although my doctor ordered me not to tamper with anything, I can not provide attention to
everything that happens at home. I can not help. I have the ear alert, and even when I sleep
I seem to not escape me no sound.

She said to him that all diseased brain wisely calls inaction that he must surrender their senses
to indifference and rest, that while he was in bed he had not been to make conversation, and that
even their children would enter the room.

This was manifested forming, with a deep sigh, and said that I needed more patience and strength
of will was to suppress their desire to know everything and give orders.

While this was spoken in the dark bedroom, Rosalie Torres whispered to La Salette. Great as were
the precautions taken to make no noise of money to have twenty hard silver, tin tin was some slight
vibrating in the room and spread throughout the house in faint waves to reach the ear subtle
Bringas.

Torres was most affected by the disease Your friend, expressed the hope that it was not anything
serious ... The bookkeeper Mompous had a similar attack in the light. "Nothing, that being one
day write, he was blind ... At first thought it was drop serene, but ten days of sale and some
medicines was good, though always delicate. In the bathrooms are finished fifth ...». cure Bye
the above so happy to take your money as afflicted by the misfortune of D. Francisco.

A Isabelita, which was sad, concerned and not wanting to eat, she was sent home from Candida to
place him there all day playing with Irene and other girls in the neighborhood. Alfonsin was to
school, and Paquito, whom her father's illness was very sad, did not leave the house and wanted
a bite to eat at lunch. Candida was the only person who was there a regular appetite.

"We need food, even making an effort - said that of Bringas -. Do not let you go well. We must take
strength to watch and work and take care all ... I also I have wanted, but I domain, daughter,
and as per requirement, because it is necessary. "

Shortly after our friend received a esquelita of Miracles in telling him that everything was finally
settled satisfactorily, and that waiting for the night. The letter breathed joy and satisfaction.

"This
poor Miracles do not know what is happening to us breaking ...-- Rosalie said the letter -.
Poor I beg you not to miss this night.

Son, go there and give it a moment account of this disaster ... Look,
you go through the return home of Fish and Carolina also whole ...
Ah, she has fault, with their hair works.

What a grotesque woman !...».

The seamstress was that day, but the lady saying goodbye was not Mary Magdalene to taffeta,
to return next week.

In the afternoon was also Milagros, who felt not have known much
before the event to be flying to console his friend.

His grief sincere was not a party to conceal the satisfaction of the lien for the successful
settlement of their conflict metal at the critical day. How and how he had made the arrangement,
I would say later, it was not intrude on the occasion of things that did not care ... "And the
doctor say? ". The excellent lady expected that blindness was an uneasiness a few days. Ask
God to heal the man as well, that model of parents ... "How you feel you can not come tonight
to my house ... It'll be the meeting very bright, and as for the buffet will be most wonderful
... Ya, ya I'll tell you how ... There for a while. "

Bidding farewell at the door, could not repress some very spontaneous outbursts of his passion dominant.
As they say a secret of importance, told her friend that that would evening dress with a hint
of white muslin scarf, lilac, which had placed inset and a jersey Watteau ... At the last minute had
been arranged as a T-shirt he was sent to Paris to San Salomó ... I thought her hair combed
up, wavy large braid around the head and long locks behind ... 'Well, not you mood to hear
such rubbish ... Bye bye ... Tomorrow I will come to know and follow our D. Francisco and counting,
counting ...».

Bringas, they all found out, he told his wife:

"I've heard your whispers
with Tellería at the door.

What about?

Have you dropped a fool?

... Poor woman!

You truly say that peace is better to eat a piece of bread with onions,
to live as these people, amid great agony coated ... And tonight big
mess!

... I swear I have pity them. "

XXII

Encouraged them a lot, because when the band rose a little, contrary
to orders medical, perceive light, though troubled and painful impression.

Whatever it was, was the belief that the body was not lost and that
sooner or later regain the use of that precious role.

Tickling bothered him a lot and vision calenturienta of thousands
of points of light or faint rays of metal, mobile, fleeting, Images
of the damned and never well execrated hairs retained the sick retina.

With However, its poor man carried my resignation, and asked God
what was that you take out the bed, it was great ordeal for him to
be lying on his back, scrambled between the sheets burning.

Permitiole the doctor out of bed after three days, but with strict order not to move from
a chair and sit still and silent, indifferent to everything and do
not receive visits deal or anything, still blindfolded, severely.

Arose, and was installed in Gasparini, in a comfortable chair with pillows. Do not allow anyone
to enter to give talk, or obeyed when pleading with Paquito at night
to read him a newspaper.

Respect his departure from domestic issues, little Rosalie was able
to achieve, because although he prided leaving the care of it all,
could not contain his desire for authority, that authority exercised
so well for many years, and each time he remembered the good use he
had made of their duties.

- Rosalie ...

- What is it, son?

- What
principle you wearing today?

- Why do you go about ...?

- I have
smelled beef stew ... Do not deny it ... Now more than ever, we must
appeal the tortillas potatoes, artichokes stuffed with sausage, and
if you press me, to pluck mutton, not forgetting the cheek.

If you trust Candida and charge the purchase soon will leave by doors.

You know that lady squandered two fortunes in comistrajos ... Di one
thing for lunch yesterday put fried hake.

- Is it thought that the
doctor send you to take it.

So he brought.

It later turned out not.

- Say one thing ... Where now is Candida?

- It's in the Furriel. Fear not hear you.

- Why do not you, good way to go to dinner at his house? I do not like guests perpetual. One
day two, go ...

- But man ... If you knew how much it has helped the poor ...! Tomorrow we'll see. I can not tell
all of a sudden you go ...

- What has brought Prudential Plaza Barley?

- Three pounds of potatoes.

- At what price?
- A six real.

- Look, dear, do not forget to write down everything,
so when I'm good, can continue to carry account of the month. Did
you bring oil? Do not bring wine, for you know that I was not expense
now. The doctor tells me to take a finger of Jerez, but do not buy
it. If you send Dona Tula the two bottles that I promised, I'll take
it, otherwise not. If Candidita continue to come through the morning
and it must give the Jicarita of chocolate ... Will I be able to hear?

-
No, no one there.

- Well, say you bring to it from the real four,
which no doubt will taste like heaven, I I doubt it at home category
other than the three ... I'm thinking the gift that we to ask the
doctor, and that's what we are going to go all our savings. And with
that I bring an eye doctor here, that if he comes to bring, forget
it. God does not want to be precise ... Yesterday spoke of taking
baths. I shudder to think. This from the baths is a rant that doctors
have invented now to end to squeeze the juice of the sick poor. In
my time there had such baths, so there were no more diseases. On the
contrary, I think he died less people. If you talk about bathrooms,
I recommend, daughter, put a face, as I put it.

The most unique was
that neither in that miserable state had to abandon my good accounting
Thiers from home. While in bed, gave his wife the keys to the drawer
where he had money, but since it was raised again wanted to take up
the reins of government and exercise that sovereign function, which
is the most obvious attribute domestic authority