 

Three insatiable vampire producer enflaquecían shackled by ignorance, tradition and regulations:
the IRS, the church and banditry, which was the work of the nobles, which was powerless against
justice - which only existed as a resource for means of extortion to the extent that they preferred
to appeal to the duel as a less expensive to settle the disputes of interest, says Hanotaux. The
resident could not leave 12 miles of their residence without the risk of death, says Seignobos,
as in the continent property of the clergy and the nobility were tax exempt, at the end of time
modern European society was most iniquitous exploitation of the commons for classes privileged.
According to the English traveler Young, the outbreak of the Great Revolution, the servant
was in the status of farm animal, working from sunrise to sunset for the idle, and feeding roots
in bad times.

Especially the church, absorbing and constantly hogging positive real produce imaginary goods,
the exploitation of the miracle and the sacraments on souls frightened by it, cutting the
intelligence to the passivity of the absurd mandatory that "the hand of the clergy in the language and
the art of writing had become media kill common sense ", says Robertson, emaciated to the
will subalternized of saints and demons that were favorable or unfavorable luck, the Church
ingested in every act of life to manage and profit to the people as intermediaries unique
among the impotence of the living and the omnipotence of the dead, was an oppressive power
civil society.

Relieved the situation in England, Germany and the Netherlands, the Reformation, which secularized
the church property and withdrew the confession depressing headset and consuming worship relics,
and aggravated in France by the Dragons and the expulsion of the Huguenots, which exported to
those countries, with industrial, industries in France, this country that reached in l'élite
qui fait la foule, a higher level of culture, and did not like Spain, a colonial continent to
order for the benefit of the metropolis, became the came to a place where the iniquities of
Christian civilization, exhausting the limits human dignity and patience enlarged dwarfed by the
philosophers of the eighteenth century.

The safety of life and property and freedom of thought and action, which are the subject political
science, matters entirely foreign to the theology and essential bases prosperity of the people
could only come from those political principles germinated in Britain when Caesar conquered Gaul, and in
its natural development have come to create the government of the people by their own representatives,
against the principle Christian men by government delegates and representatives of God, that was
rule in the Middle Ages and the first part of the modern era.

"In the seventeenth century, says Seignobos, European society had similar bases in all nations: the
absolute authority of the State and the Church. The sovereign power emanates from God and not
has a limit ... It was not possible to publish books without the consent of the government
and the people could be imprisoned indefinitely. There was, therefore, guarantee of any kind,
no freedom individual, this scheme is what is called despotism. It did not admit more than
a church in each country and the inhabitants were forced to worship
the state.

This and Church helped each other, governments, persecuting heretics and forced to subject to
the clergy, and clergy imposing obedience to the king as a religious duty. "

This was the "old regime" in England, and emancipated the Roman papal centralism, without army
for external defense and without the dangers to freedom, as Fiske says - was already very
attenuated, which by then was even more to the revolution 1688, the bill of rights and tolerance,
and that currently only exists in the spiritual, because man is naturally more progressive with
regard the stomach, that with respect to the head, because no lower-order desires food can be satisfied
with fiction as the higher order, because freedom inofficious thinking is for those who do
not think, is odious to those who are disabled to enjoy a pre-parental choice that excludes or makes
it unnecessary to the point that every believer, Buddhist, Catholic, Orthodox, Brahmins, Protestant
or Moslem feel happy and content of beliefs that are acclimated, and that by this means are the best,
and as the force of all conventional wisdom rests on the argument Hottentot: "I thought our fathers,"
increases or decreases, therefore the number of adherents, they feel an appreciation of their
belief in the acceptance of them make the other and a devaluation
in the repudiation.

And while in England there is no report of violence against freedom in the order of goods, there
is still violence to freedom in the realm of ideas: compulsory education absurd beliefs to children
in public school, still living people who have had court convictions for crimes minds such as
heresy, for example, recently abolished in 1865, and is cool even
if Bradlangh twice excluded from parliament for refusing to provide
the religious oath, finally abolished as well.

Arguably, therefore, that the "new regime" has been partially and gradually England from historical
times, in the spirit of individual independence Germany which has developed free institutions,
overcoming the formidable hurdles of absolutism Christian, for that spirit of compromise that
comes in half in the composition of sanity human and not a whit in it, and thanks to which
has been encountered the greatest freedom hereditary monarchy in
policy by the ingenious combination of which, if king's divine wisdom
is wrong, ministers pay the price.

That has allowed him, eventually suppress the rebellion by the meeting and rev the government
of the opposition triumphed in the elections, thanks to the other doctrine compromise between
democracy and monarchy, that the king reigns but governs parliament by the ministry responsible,
the reverse of the continent, where the system English doctrines crashed gifts the doctors of the Church,
Bossuet and Fenelon, who made a virtue of selflessness demeaning to the heads of state institution
divine misconception that always led to Latino leaders to absolutism in Europe and America
and Charles X expressed in the formula that led him to lose the crown
Revolution of 1830: "I prefer to be sawyer to reign in the conditions
of the King of England."

On the mainland, on the contrary, the prevailing birth of the divine right absolutism supported
by the Church, and as for the plasticity of the human spirit, the whole scheme is a pool of personal
arrangements, a school of habits of thought, feeling and action, at the end of modern times
were consolidated by the time trends mental populations are designated by the name of Latin
race, and explain its inability to move within liberal institutions,
from the management opposite, which lies in the town itself the source
of power, delegating upwards.

"The great feature of English constitutional system - the principle of growth, the secret of its
construction - Stubbs says, is the continued development of institutions first state representative
from the elementary, which are used for local purposes and in the simplest way to that in which
the parliament appears to be the concentration all local and provincial
machinery, the depositary of the powers of the three states kingdom.

"

In eighteenth century France was a calamity acute and temporary, because everything rearranged
again traditional centralism, but in Latin America, where regime change took place outburst
also the political ineducación for self government assumed the proportions chronic continental
calamity because desconcordancia between the written constitution and existing customs, including
the fundamental weakness of the initiative, arbitrary and authoritarian capita, disrespectful of other
people's freedom by being educated in the system Catholic dynastic taxation and forced submission,
and the essentially democratic of new political forms brought from North America, all that bared
inability to conduct the paternal regime increases from disuse in the herd and conceals by
too much government, forced to supplement the limited powers of the new regime the old unlimited,
to convert the new free states into mere despotism democratic, as
were the Italian republics of the Middle Ages.

The forerunner of this unfitness for self government and the barbarism, savagery, Cruelty and
terror were consecutive in the mother country, where the human spirit was for a longer time and
more diametrically away from the moral sense of human and idea of
??free institutions, by the "sacred duty of passive submission to
the altar and the throne" created and played by Catholicism, and Robertson,
in the same place, describes them thus:

"The main purpose of the
Inquisition in Spain is where the period was Saracen major sources
of new thinking and knowledge.

When was permanently introduced in 1236, was greeted by a large proportion of the population
with fear and disgust, and the first Grand Inquisitor was killed in Aragon. It's a mistake to assume
that something in the nature Spanish, particularly favorable to his methods. Spanish orthodoxy
is a manufactured product and represents the triumph, under special circumstances, the fan
element belonging all nations. "

"It is estimated that in 36 years, 200,000 lives were destroyed by
the Spanish Inquisition.

Their methods were the negation of every principle of justice. All testimony, including the
criminals, children and even idiots, was valid against the accused, while it was only ear in
his favor, the unsuspected, all procedures were strictly secret; the false reports were very
rarely punished, and the general principle was that the accused should somehow be guilty, with the
Inquisition, as Pope, infallible. Camera torture could hardly fail to provide proof that they loved.
No rule such terror and horror has happened in any other period in European history, and only
in the practices of witch-finders can be found among the wild side its systematic atrocity.
"

"After the failure of the Invincible Armada against England, the inquisitors
decided that the cause of divine wrath was his undue tolerance of
heresy, and a million Moors reluctant were miserably cast of Spain,
as they had been a century earlier 160,000 Jews.

In a single auto de fe, in Salamanca, 6,000 books were burned. "

"Like every Civilization game Subsisting intellectual variation, the Spain was then stripped of much
of their mental and material resources, and ultimately the continued
consolidated work of the Inquisition arrested brilliant literature
for centuries, keeping devoid of science while the rest of Europe
was accumulating.

Introducing Church inquisition destroyed the specific civilization of southern France; and from then
on using the machine to the civilization of Spain reduced to starvation. "

"Net income for Protestantism is the disruption of spiritual tyranny centralized. The cracks
in the structure gave space for air and light, at a time new trends that began to blow and
new light to shine. Twenty years before the schism Luther, Columbus
had discovered the New World.

Copernicus, who died in 1543, left his teaching the world they had just established Protestantism.
At the beginning of the next century Kepler and Galileo began to extend the limits of the universe
old dream. The modern era was in full swing, and with it Christianity began its decline. "

"It is clear that from mid-seventeenth century the physical sciences for his own method and mined
nature of theology. In them it was possible to test the rational and intelligent conviction,
instead of eternal sterile theological debate on proposals unreasonable.

In the second half of the nineteenth century, eventually the balance of philosophical thought
has been overwhelmingly hostile to Christian beliefs, and it is significant that these days his defense
relies more often on their utility on its truth. "(ie, becomes the Polybius' point of view).

"It
has been said that while the truth vast Greece dialectical discipline, urged men to match each other's beliefs,
and shape them sends Christian Church its dogmas, the modern spirit requires that fit the facts.
This spirit promoted first, and was later promoted greatly by the study of natural science.
"

Roughly speaking always, we could say that Greece created, with beautiful lyrics and fine arts, baking,
material and intellectual progress. Roma civil law, the Palestinian mysticism and theology on
the doctrine of the fall of man in Paradise by the loss of innocence,
which places the state of perfection at the beginning of the species,
and is exactly the reverse of the modern theory of evolution or the
incessant and continuous progress, and that England has created, in
other ways and in the same over time, institutions representative
of that currently enjoyed by all civilized peoples, as capacity for
the needs and trends of the time, as Emerson would say.

The truth, which was sought by divination in the Greco-Roman, and inspiration or disclosure in the
ancient Jewish and Christian, is wanted by the observation in the Middle Ages.

Freedom and science, the two levers of liberal civilization, which is incompatible with the Christian
theory of the world have taken six centuries constituted, which in just 30 years have risen to
great power status in Japan, where they were preceded by the other
in 300 years without result, outside the natural chain of martyrs,
and in another 30 or 40 rise to China, freedom and science from the
human mind has been exercised in the areas forbidden by religions,
of thinking that has sprung up against bans of the Church, to civilize
it a bit apart and she, too, must now under common law to search for
the seduction that previously obtained by torture.

And since the human spirit in Europe began to extend beyond the dogma, in Procrustean bed that kept
the Christian churches, all medieval institutions, political, economic were social and disappear
or become democratic sense, as the course of the philosophical and the permanent allurement
of those early and glorious republics of antiquity, which illuminates the fate of the human species
as shining flashes of thought, beauty, grace and free creative energy.

But fortunately the outcome was long anticipated by the work, patience and perseverance of
English people, who in the late seventeenth century had managed to
forge and all the political necessary to give the government agency
consistency, softness, strength, elasticity and resiliency, which
were missing in the Greek democracies, in the Roman Republic and the
medieval empires.
