 Surely, if the happy day arrived and the chandeliers were not on the console or screws
in the beautiful ears of the lady, the first thing that lynx would notary lack of these things
... Horror was the thought! ... See where to happiness itself engendered a stinging pain in such a
way that the unhappy lady was in a sick painful perplexity. The expressed saying that perhaps would
be glad to not be so happy.

The impatience and vivacity of Bringas manifested in a fever of domestic intervention, in management
such as delirium, watching without seeing and directing all the same as if seen. Not a minute left
to enact miscellaneous provisions, and he himself answered questions
I was doing.

His wife is fair to say, my head was so crazy chatterbox.

XXVI

"Daughter, hear what I say ... If we are going to order those convicted bathrooms, you deal with
the dresses you have. The silent changes, you take away one thing to put it another ... and
as new. All I will say that Worth has sent them. Do not think, so do to the duchess ... I expect
that His Majesty will put two little letters to the leader of the movement to give us tickets Free
for all ... Another thing: if you're taking your position and what you can do, you can get
that the Lord ordered the Administration to give two months' pay me the month of July ... And
why not July and August? You know everything will be done, and talk about our trip to grieve
and say that we can not for lack of ... This depends on the hardening lame beneficial, and
easy will, it almost always is in that temple ... I leave it to your skill ... Children do not need
dresses ... If anything some guy hat ... Do not do anything until I see it. Can you spend a very
striking and make sense, with baskets on their heads that make them chyle sweat. I will get the
jipijapa that Augustine left forgotten, and my levisac of nap, which
I did six years ago, and my denim dress that always looks brand new
... such strain.

I'll give us a car booked to take food, stove that making chocolate, a mattress, pillows, water
jug ??and some other useful thing ... Finally, we will travel as possible. "

Tarabilla continues: "What is that noise I've ever felt? What have I broken? Since I do not
see I keep track of the plates and cups that I have felt down, not down a dozen and a half. When
See, my God, I find the house made a shame. Do not tell me no. I think that I see the mess of everything
and a thousand useless expenses. I can not explain the huge consumption of oil, now I do not
need light. And Prudence, are you making good account? Bet that no. With that of the master
does not see, all is confusion. Lemons say that twenty-four reals. But thou hast commanded
to bring here all the orchards of Valencia? For if the drugs cost us money would have to beg.
Anyway, I put me well, and everything will be fine. I think that since I have not done so many
things I have ordered ... And, as the master does not see ... Bring meat or skirt, and I never
heard from again Mr. Pickled wheel which is a fixed dish sir, or I was told if the macaroons
are still coming in to room for dessert ... In the distribution of time is not what will be
done. Say no can be in everything, and I wonder why that has not cleaning cutlery Paquito when
it comes to the class. What then? A sir detract from this? For his father has done and will
do when his sight ... I am also sure that you do not remove children's shoes when they come from
school and put the old ones. In the noise I know that walking footsteps running around with
out shoes on the street. Well might habérsete bring a alpargatitas occurred, which this time are the
best ... But I see, I see, and everything will return to that tolerance-tolerance without which
we can not live ... And I figure that Prudence lava not all it should. It will not be for lack of
soap, which has spent more than necessary in these days when I've moved so rarely, without the
use of collars or cuffs ... Bet that when taken Candidita coffee, have not you done it the previous
day, but you've cast again.

By bouncing whiff I have known. Well, well, to promote services; for that we are. "

The chant did not sound good to the ears of Rosalia, and less time. Was again all things the
state they were before, and to obey the lengthy time rules that flowed endlessly inexhaustible source
of domestic law. Brought boys' sandals, and Bringas not already ruled that school because excessive
heat I was bad, and the holiday, about being an economy, it was very hygienic. They thanked
much, and all day it went running and playing in the corridors with large denim robes, or they
went to the third floor for other children and Irene. Were happiest beings in the house, almost as much
as the birds that nest in the hollows of architecture and wrap around
the imposing edifice in an atmosphere of lullabies.

In those days, had a visit, that caused surprise both of husbands and a sense something far from
satisfaction. A person whose name they did not want to remember, Refugio Sánchez Emperor, presented
himself at home, when least expected. Sorely embarrassed by which believed that masked a brash
Rosalia to switch, even a moment with decent people. Soon said the reason for your visit.
Her sister had Amparo letter from Bordeaux ... Alas, too sore by the illness of D. Francisco
... "He says since I knew not think of anything else. " He was immediately commissioned to visit
the lords, to know of how she was sick, and I wrote a post back. Wanted heard from him two or three
times a week at least ... D. Augustine was also carefully and desiring
to hear the news ...

Bringas was very grateful, and both urged their
improvement, which had to believe Refuge just had that huge fad band.

"Tell them I'm fine and thank you much attention ...». Rosalie felt like saying to fresh four
who had the audacity to desecrate the honorable entering her house, but he kept his composure
D. Francisco and good manners of the girl's contained. He could not, however, save Social formulas
with it, and just waved, without shaking hands. While the girl was talking to Bringas, the
Pipaón de la Barca was in and out as if such a visit was not at home. Looking at it to pass, had to
notice something that decreased their antipathies. It was the restraint and showing seriousness,
things were not good measures reasonable and said, was her dress it was swish, new, beautifully
cut, made and decorated. Rosalie looked at sideways and could not of amazement from that of
a goat hair so original and beautiful color, decentísimo and appearance of the young, well-gloved
and better road. "It graciosilla" - said for himself, and was left wanting to ask where he had
bought the goat hair ... Perhaps Amparito had commanded him to Bordeaux. After wearing a pin chest
... so chic! How you were the eyes behind him Rosalie! ".

"What do you do you?" - Asked D. Francisco back to her face, as if the could see through the black
band.

- Do I Sánchez ?...-- replied a little embarrassed at first, but recovering
with the highest resiliency -.

So, now not working. I'm a little sensitive, I have chest pain, sometimes I trouble breathing
and spent some sleepless nights. You know, since I sleep, seems to make me a stone here ...
My sister tells me I need to pass themselves with facility and rest. I live with a very decent
lady, I love him. I live a very removal ... Well as I was saying to you, my sister wants me to take on something.
As no I can work or machine needle, Amparo is determined to put an establishment fashion, and
to begin sent me a huge box of hats, fichus, brimmed hats, ties, Bow-Tie, camisetitas ... treasures.
Madrid have not ever seen so much new stuff and good taste. I also received a straw and cloth
caps, ribbons of all kinds, feathers, marabou, egret, plumes, Amazons, touches, pinions, hummingbirds,
esprís, and how God created. I doing tests to see how I compose ... I've searched some parishioners
of greatness and have been to my house many ladies ... Delighted all I have. I sent to a little cards
...

Saying it, took out one to give it to Rosalie, who with evil took smoothing frown, deigning to
grace the girl with a benevolent smile, the first seen Refuge disparaging
those lips.

And while the youngest still more expensive the workmanship callipygian of that industry in which
they had been, the Bringas oíala with some interest, forgiving perhaps the contempt of the
person by the sublimity of the matter was. As the Spirit Holy down to the lips of the repentant
sinner, can sanctify this, Shelter, the eyes of his illustrious relative, is redeemed by the
divinity of his speech.

'With that modito? - Said D. Francisco jest -. Nice business!

Look at those monkeys that will you give your parishioners! This luxury is in inverse ratio
of money to pay. Much eye, girl ... It seems to me that if your sister does not send you to live
on, what's with you eat the rag again elbows hungry ... And you come to us to be snapped up
for your parishioners? Girl, by God, play and play at another door ... Your industry is the
ruin of families and the novitiate of San Bernardino. But I wish you good luck, and I recommend
have no guts, if you defend yourself from misery. Hard on them! For what it's worth twelve
takes forty, and so the excess of pay to cover the lack of more than get quarter ... Oh how funny
!...».

A good laugh while it lasted, which was attended by all those present, even the lady who had
the incredible kindness of accompanying Refuge to the door, and give some pleasantries.

XXVII

"Do not you wonder if they have married?" - Rosalie said her
husband, when he rushed next to it.

- I had the word in the mouth
more than once to ask, but I did not dare, for fear to tell me no,
and I take a berrinchín.

- I had to restrain myself to not put it
on the street - said the lady doing enough to appear possessed of
a holy rage, legitimate son of a sense of dignity -.

Is metérsenos audacity to come here and stupid with messages of good piece of your sister ... other
such.

Nor does it matter that Amparo is interested or not for us! ... As the feelings Augustine also
make me grace ... A people for whom the Catechism is like the specifications
of doggerel ... I was blown hearing it.

I do not know how you had the patience to withstand such litany of lies and nonsense ... And now he
goes to sell news ... What crap are those! I assure you I was a mess ...

The entry of Mr de Pez cut the number of observations that had undoubtedly illustrate the matter.
Soon after, Bringas, who never tired of giving orders, provided that there hereinafter eat
at one or one and a half, Spanish style, dining at nine night. This was not only more comfortable
at the station heat, but cheaper, because they spent less coal. Dinner must be light thing.
My man recommended lentils, beans chard and peas, though they were
black broth, garlic soup, and abstinence from meat at night.

This plan was no more inconvenient than having to add to their stomachs, afternoon, the weight
of a Chocolatito, whose charge, by the fact of having stuck Dona Candida family like a leech,
it was point less than unbearable. Truth is God was always in aid of Thiers, for Dona Tula,
in summer the same system adopted meals each evening was a delicious chocolate and almost always
sent to a sick person gourd, well guarded by mojicón and biscuits.

"This Dona Tula - Bringas said when the maid was entering his neighbor - is a person very attentive
...».

Rosalie went to the house of Doña Tula, rarely missing the chocolate Pez six and a half .. There
were other highly skilled people in the city, as the sister the mayor, a man chaplain at times,
the second official stewardship, the inspector Usually the doctor
and others.

Miracles do not ever put your feet in the house of his sister, because some time ago which were
not treated.

Speaking of the Marchioness, used to designate Dona Tula with some reluctance, but without
going over here. Mary was almost always, and everyone loved with it, mimándola. La de Bringas
was there public display of her dress and Candida mozambique wore his black grosgrain, only
kept in good condition. Be idle to say that being found Mr. Fish present, no other mortal would
dare to lift the rooster in a conversation policy or on any matter of substance. For my part
I confess that the manner of speaking of that man as guapín and words as well measures, exercised
not know what narcotic action on my nerves. The same thing was to get him to explain why their
result with moderate party, I thought that a fresh henbane is poured into my brain, and the couch
Dona Tula, stroking their arms warm, invited me to take a nap. Courtesy, however, obligábame to fight
the damn dream, which was a similar state the doctors call coma vigil, a view without seeing a
ghost image transition, a hearing without hearing, and tinnitus are mixed. The quaint room that
was half the heat closed and in the shade, the filtered light coming through the transparent
fabric, lighting with the enormous tropical flowers coloring these, the bass tone that faded
tapestry had all the things in this sleepy cavity, the slight hoarseness Dona Candida and yawning,
discreetly covered with the palm of the hand, the beauty of Mary Sudre not seem to belong in this
world, the mozambique pintitas Rosalia with that dizzy the eye, and finally the slow sound of
the rocking and the fans chis chas five or six ladies were so many agents lethargic in my brain.
As the sequins glittered Some fans and flashed the concepts one by one ... Summer is anticipated
that year and would be very cruel ... The generals had come to the Canaries ... Prim was in
Vichy ... The Queen would go to the farm and then Lequeitio ... It began to take something picked
tails, bath and queues were already banned ... González Bravo was sick to your stomach ...
Cabrera had gone to see the smooth Child ...

Recently highlighted the voice of Fish, in a tone closely related to his golden mustache equality
that seemed artificial hair, and growing the narcotic effect ... The so- I could not see without
bitter sorrow the situation that things had come about because and others ... The revolution
with its all or nothing and moderates with his non possumus put the country the edge of the slope
at the edge of the abyss, the precipice. There was the good lord disappointed, and do not
believe there was no remedy for evil.

This was a land of destruction, a country of adventure, a country divided between the conspiracy
and resistance. So could not no progress or advancement, or improvement, nor administration.
He was always saying: "More government, more government" but was preaching in the desert. All
services public were in their infancy. Fish was an ideal organizer stroked his mind, but what
how to do it? His ideal was to ride a perfect administrative system, with eighty or ninety DGs.
That there was any manifestation of national life that escape the wise guidance of the State.