 The prosaic ending that you know, is the best result of my story in terms of morality
and perhaps more as an adventure novel. The rest is instructive to anyone, know only shake my
memories. I have not tried to do mystery, believe me, but I talk about it as little as possible
for personal reasons that are nothing like the desire to make me more interesting than I really
am.

Several people are mixed on the facts I will refer you: one is a very old friend - hard to define
and even harder to judge without bitterness - which you have just read the letter farewell and mourning.
Never told about a life that could not please him. Mix in these confidences is almost rehabilitated.
Another, I have it refer to it by putting discretion in my words contained in situations that make
him a public man, or known or probably you will get to know, and I do not diminish in the least
merit revealing to you the modesty of his lineage. As to the third person, whose contact vivid
exerted influence in my youth, is now placed in safety, and neglect of the impossible able to
compare all the memories of that it will talk to you and yours.

I can say that family must have been that my children give me means to assess the sweetness, firmness
that characterize the ties that I missed when I was a child as them. My mother barely had the
strength to nurse and died. My father lived a few years her, but in such miserable condition,
I stopped feeling the influence of his presence many years before losing him. His death is
a fact that strictly speaking I was very before his death. Really, then, I knew no one nor the
other, and the day I I was only wearing mourning for my father, did not appreciate any changes
that would make me suffer. The word orphan, she heard about me repeat, as an expression of misery,
had for me a sense vague: people seeing my service dedicated to pity me, crying, I was realized
it was pitiful, but nothing more.

In the midst of these good people I grew watched from afar by a sister of my father, Ceyssac
lady did not come to settle in Trembles, until the care of my fortune my education and strongly
demanded his presence. Found in me a wild child, uncivilized, in full ignorance, easy to subdue,
difficult to convince, bum in every sense a word, without any idea of ??discipline and work
and he stayed with his mouth open the first time he heard of the study and use of time, amazed
at the idea that life were not reduced to the fact scamper back and forth across the field.
Until then I had not done anything more than that. The only memories that I had of the existence
of my father were these: In the rare moments that gave him a little rest Disease that consumed
him, left, earned the wall walk outside the park and walked for hours sunbathing, walking painfully
supported by a heavy stick, giving me the impression decrepit old age. Meanwhile I ran across
the field entertaining to build bridges birds. Having received no other lessons, I thought
to mimic, more or less accurately, I had seen my father do. My comrades were all children of
farmers in the vicinity or too lazy to go to school or too young to work the land, and all They
encouraged me by example to live without the least worry of the future. Education I was nice, the
one teaching that drove me to rebel, and you look But all he had to give lasting and positive
fruits of them suited me. Came to me confused, by rote, knowledge of that portion of little things
that are facts and science and the charm of country life, and to take advantage of such teaching
all the skills I had Desirable: robust health, villager's eyes, that is, a wonderful sight, hearing accustomed
very early to perceive the slightest noise, tireless legs, and with all this great love of things
that happen outside, seen, heard, just like by what is read and an insatiable curiosity regarding:
the wonderful stories contained in books interest me much less than the fables and superstitions
put well above local fairy tales.

Ten years I looked at all the kids in Villanueva knew as much as any them, and something less than
their parents, but among them, and I had an imperceptible difference then suddenly it was determined
later: the existence and the facts that we were common feelings that
caused me not feel them.

Thus, it is clear to me, when I remember, the pleasure of putting traps set along the booths,
to spy on birds was not what captivated me most in the game, and proves that the only living
witness some I have left of those is the vision of ambushes continuous net of certain places,
the notion Precise time and season and to the perception of certain noises. Perhaps you judge too
childish that I remember that thirty-five years, one day he raised my traps in a recently tilled
field, doing this or that time, the doves September crossed with a very loud flapping of wings,
and the plain around the mills Wind expected to bare the wind blades that never came. I could
not tell me, how is a peculiarity of such trivial value could be fixed in my memory with accurate
data the year to the day, to the point of finding their place in this moment the conversation
of a mature man that already, and cite this fact - as you would with many others - only I intend
to point out to you that something was clear and my outer life and was special memory in me
some very insensitive to the impression of the facts, but of singular ability to set the memory
of sensations.

What had to be more positive - especially for those who my future could be care - is that this way
of living healthy and invigorating misnamed, was a terrible form of education.

No matter how carefree I was, and codeándome tuteándome village with
comrades in the background I was alone: ??it was just my race, one
of my rank, and disagree, for many concepts, with the future than
I expected.

I'm linking to people who could be my server, not my friends, I rooted
inadvertently God knows how tough fibers, in places that would leave
as soon as possible; assuming, in short, practices that lead not only
to make me the person ambiguous you will learn later, half peasant,
half-dilettante, as soon as a another, and often each other without
ever prevail either.

My ignorance, as said, was extreme, my aunt realized this and hurried to bring Trembles a tutor,
a young school teacher Ormesson. It was a well-made spirit: simple, Discreet, accurate, nurtured by
reading, taking a view on all things, provisions to proceed, but
never before have discussed the reasons for their actions, very practical
and force very ambitious.

No one like him I've seen come into life with less ideal and more blood cold, and appreciate
your destination with strong visual counting on fewer resources. Her eyes franca, the free gesture,
the word net, and exactly the appeal, the kind and talent are needed to slide imperceptibly
into the masses and impose. A similar nature, in absolute opposition to the mine, was the
most appropriate to make me suffer, but I must add that, in addition to being really good, had
a spirit of righteousness foolproof. Appeared more than thirty years, though only twenty-four,
and his name was Augustine, a name that will use to designate it, until further notice.

As soon as he settled between us changed my life, in the sense that at least She made two parts.
Do not quit of habit, but I was imposed others. I had books, books of study, hours of work with
my hobby that grew to distractions allowed at intervals dedicated to recreation, and what I can
call it my passion for the field increased the need for entertainment.

The house was then Trembles as you see it. Need more happy or more sad? ... Children have a predisposition
to brighten and enhance their surroundings in terms later everything gets smaller and becomes
sad for no apparent reason and just because the spotlight is not the same. Andres - who you know
and who has not left the house for sixty years, I have repeated many
times then everything happened more or less as now.

The mania contracted early to write my initials and commemorative stamps affixed for anything,
it could serve to correct my memory if they were not complete and infallible. At times, you
understand, the long years that separate me from the time that I'm talking away, forgetting
that I have lived since that time and circumstances I have imposed more serious care, have created
different causes of joy and sadness and tenderness established reasons
much more serious: it's like an old trap into which it falls back,
and allow me to grace this picture is a little consistent with what
I feel like an old wound and completely healed, but sensitive, suddenly
revived, and hurts when touched and makes her scream.

Imagine you before entering in the school, which was later, not a day that I stopped watching
tower that stands far away, living in the same places and observing the same customs, and understand
now find that things be and then in the same state that knew and loved, keep loving them. You
know, not one of the memories of that time has been erased - tell moreover, - none of them has
weakened and will not cause surprise that talking wander reminiscences that have the power
to rejuvenate the point of turning child. There are names particular places, I could never pronounce
in cold blood, and the Trembles is one of them.

Even you know these places as well as I, it is very difficult to come to understand to what extent
I was delicious: we all were to me, to the garden, I you see, is rather modest. Trees were
in it, oddly enough all around, and many birds in them because the trees are attracted to and
could not find elsewhere, were also in it, order and disorder, sanded walks leading to the gates
of entry and flattered I always had a desire for the places where one can reason with a device;
walks in which the ladies from another era would have been able to deploy their dresses of
ceremony; dark corners, wet woods, barely penetrated by the sun, in which all years grew the green
grass on the spongy ground, solitary places visited only by me, offering some aspect of old
age and neglect and were full of memories. Gustábame sit on the beds that limit the ways and
inform me of the age of the shrubs villages, all very old, so much so that Andrew assured that neither
my father nor my grandfather and my great grandfather had seen the plant. In the evenings, from
the top of the house looked the garden at the corner of the park with almond trees whose leaves
early tore September wind, forming transparent rare flaming sky background staining by the
red flashes of the sun.

In the park there were many white trees, ash and laurels in which lived a multitude of thrushes
and blackbirds throughout the autumn, and further highlighted a group of old oak - the tree
that sheds the last and yields the first, that even in December retained its red leaves, when all
the woods seemed dead, that asylum in their nests to the magpies and offered high place rest
to high-flying birds, in whose branches perched crows early winter attracted to the country.

Each season brought us their guests and each chose the most suitable accommodation: Spring birds
in the trees in bloom, the fall a little higher, the winter in the bush, in groups of evergreens,
in the oaks and laurels. Sometimes, in winter, in the morning, a rarest bird flying in a very
cozy lonely forest, his flight was noisy, clumsy, but fast, it was a woodcock, partridge arrival
at night, hitting up the wing with bare branches of trees and glided between them, just saw
you a moment, the time needed to show its beak long and straight. Then not meet again until
next year around the same time and on-site same, to the point that it seemed to be returning migrants.

The
doves came in May, while the hoopoe or cuckoos. On clear nights could hear her cooing and warm,
soft and slow, when in the air had a whiff of youth seemed to exhale from the active expansion
of new blood. Deep in the bush on the edge of the garden, white cherry, in the privet in flower,
linden trees loaded aroma bouquets, all night - during those long nights when I slept little,
when or sometimes the moon shone rain fell slow, hot, silent, like tears of joy, - for my delight
and my torment nightingales twittering or not. Callahan if the weather was gloomy, and if
the sun shone restart their trills promising next summer. After raising are no longer heard.
And often, in late June, when the sun burned in the bush the wood used to find a dumb bird, dark,
bewildered, who wandered hovering just from branch to branch: it
was the bird of spring left us.

In the countryside, meadows, close to ripe, yellow, the older branches crackled; vines showing
their first buds. The corn, still green, stretched in the distance by the plain, wavy, dyed
red amaranth. An endless world of insects, butterflies, birds are stirring, under that sun multiplied
June indescribable expansion of life. The swallows flew into the air, and at night, when the
swifts ceaselessly pursued shrill shrieks, came the bat, and that rare swarm seemed revived in the
warm nights, began his round of flutter uncertain housing. Since I began harvesting hay field
life was constant party.

It was the first collective work required to meet in the same place many groups of workers.

I was present when the scythe the grass, when stacked the hay and enjoyed leaving bring about a wagon
back to town. Lying on top of the enormous burden as a child in a large bed, lulled by the gentle
movement of the vehicle rolling on the grass cut, watched from usually higher than a horizon that
seemed infinite. Saw the sea stretching out of sight, above the green line fields grown, the birds flew
close to me experienced the feeling of an environment wider a wider extension that made me
lose for a moment the notion of life real.

Just fodder harvested the wheat began to yellow. And they reproduced the same labor movement as warm
season under the sun more alive, with strong alternatives calm winds
or atmospheric heat produced dreadful days and nights as auroras,
precursor days of storms in the atmosphere, full of irritating electricity,
reacted spectacularly.

Less intoxicated and more abundance, harvest beams falling on the ground tired produced and consumed
by the sun: this is the summer. The fall of our country already knows you, is the holy season.
After winter, the circle of the year closing on him. Then lived more in my room, my eyes,
always alert, be exercised in entering the mists of December and the thick curtains of rain
that covered the countryside of a broad darker than the frost.

When the trees were completely stripped of their leaves covered best extension I the park. Nothing
exalted him as much as the winter mist in a blue veil covering the remoteness and distorting
the exact notion of the distance. None or very little noise, but each more obvious note, at
night, especially, extreme sound in air.

The song of a Finch stretched endlessly in malls deserted and silent, without hindrance to vibration,
moist air embedded and imbued with silence. The gathering then falling over Trembles was inexplicable
for four winter months condensed, concentrated, recorded indelibly in my mind that world winged,
subtle, visions and gifts image noise and had lived for the remaining eight months of the
year with an activity resembled both a dream.

Augustine then gripped me. The station helped him: she belonged almost expiated everything and
the best possible long neglect of so many days without a job.

But even without profit? ...

Not very sensitive to things around us, while his disciple was absorbed to the point in them,
quite indifferent to the course of the stations was the wrong month misrepresenting the time, invulnerable
to many sensations of which I was shot, deliciously hurt in my whole being, cold, methodical and
as correct and consistent humor mine was uneven, Augustine lived at my side without worrying
about what was happening in me and suspect even. Leaving little, rarely leaving his room where
he worked from morning at night and only allowed to rest in the summer nights are veiled and
not because he lacked daylight. Reading, taking notes, for months and months I saw him write
prose and more often many things at dialogue.

Served a timetable to choose a series of names own. The patterns in a list with notes, were
assigned an age, noted the physical traits of each character, some originality, a rarity, something
ridiculous. Staff was imagined for dramas or comedies. He wrote very fast, with a calligraphy
symmetrical, very clear, and issued the letters appeared in a low voice. Sometimes, when a acute
observation came from the pen, smiling, and after a paragraph long and compact in which one of his characters
had spoken at length, reflected a moment as if to take breath, and oíale I whisper, "Let's
see, what do we reply?" And when I came the desire to make confidences, I called and told me:
"Hey this Sunday gentleman." Rare times to understand it. How could I became interested in
people issues who did not know to whom he had never seen?

All the complications of different stocks as well foreign to me, I thought it belonged to an
imaginary society in which damned if he wanted to penetrate.

- I understand you later - said Augustine.

Well I reached that delight both locked up for my young tutor, was the show the game of life,
the mechanism of feelings, conflict of interests, ambitions, vices, but, I repeat, for me it
was irrelevant whether the world was like a big board chess - as Augustine said, - that life was a
game played better or worse and had rules for that game.

Augustine often wrote letters and received, many stamped in Paris. These were which opened in
a hurry and read with great interest, his face animated with emotion - he than usual was so discreet
- and the arrival of these letters was always followed by a depression that lasted only a few
hours or for an animation and a verbosity extraordinary that persisted for many weeks.

Once or twice I saw him do a package of some papers, locked in a self-addressed to Paris and
return it with a special recommendation to the mail clerk in Villanueva. Then we noticed that
he looked feverish anxiety response came not long, apparently. Then again began to fill pages,
as a break that goes from one to another groove. He got up very early, and hastened to undertake
the work as if someone forced or had taken a piece, went to bed very late and never approached
the window to find out if it rained or was sunny, I am sure that he left knowing that Trembles
in turrets had weather vanes, constantly agitated, which marked changes
in wind direction and alternately around some atmospheric influences.

-
What does it matter to you that? - Used to tell me when I saw that
I was worried about the wind.

Thanks to a prodigious activity which is not affected his health and
his apparent natural element, provided everything: her job and mine.

I immersed myself in the studio, forcing me to read and reread the books, requiring me to interpret,
analyze, copy, and do not let me out to outdoors more than was stunned when he warned that because
of the violent dive in a sea of ??words.

Under his direction and care I learned quickly - and in truth without
great difficulty - all to know about a child whose future is not defined,
but who wants to do, for now, a schoolboy.

Its purpose was to shorten the school year preparing as quickly as possible for college.

So it was four years, after which it considered that was already in a position to address secondary
education, and with inconceivable horror I saw approaching the moment of leaving Trembles my house.