 Her husband begged was
collected, the more she "had enough to do so early to bed ...». Alas, the Dona Tula gathering
and you talk that talk of Fish and Serafinita, habíanle set their head like a drum ... Then
D. Manuel was able to give headaches to the rooster of the Passion the mantra of his regrets.
It was already so their calamities that Job would stay very small.

- Finally, the daughter, lie down to rest from all this drivel ... Needs to be heard with patience
Fish all you want to tell us, because ... you see what he says.

We are your shoulder to cry on, and here comes the poor to relieve their pains.

Rosalie finally did what her husband told. Lifted the cloth, were turned off lights, and Paquito
manager to give your dad taking drugs later, the head of the illustrious
lady sought rest on the pillows.

The dream, however, came later, after a long period of brooding failure.

XXIX

The

silver candlesticks ... the risk that her husband had discovered early on that a trip to Peñaranda
de Bracamonte ... a way to avoid this ... Mr. Fish, the ideal ... Oh, what a man so extraordinary
and fascinating! What elevation view, what superiority! ... To say that he was capable, if he
left, to organize an administrative system with eighty and four Directorates-General, is that
I could give him this sovereign head ... And what delicacy and refinement of manners, which
chivalrous generosity! ... Surely, if it looked at any choke, would come to help her with that
fish delicacy gallant Bringas neither knew nor had ever shown at any time, even when he was her
suitor, or in the days of the honeymoon, spent in Navan ... What had been so ordinary dye
his whole life long! Until the people chosen for the inauguration was horribly marriage uneducated,
unfriendly and contrary to any notion of good taste ... Well she remembered the lady of that lugarón
of the inn in which there was not a comfortable chair to sit on, from the smell to cattle and
straw, this wine knowing fish and chops knowing those leather ... Then the pedestrian Bringas
did not speak more than vulgar things. In Madrid, the day before marriage, was not a man to spend
six rooms in a bouquet of roses to smell ... You Navalcarnero had given a botijito, and had to walk
along the grain, allowing pick poppies that loses its leaves at once. She liked very little
of the field and the only thing I would Indeed hunting was tolerable, but Bringas was afraid of
the shots, and having been in Once the mayor VENATORIA campaign, nearly killed the mayor himself.
He was a man of such poor aim that it would not even the wind ... Back in Madrid, had begun
that Unregulated married life, oppressed, made up of hardships and hypocrisies, a comedy domestic
day and night, between the methodical and routine running of the pennies and hours. She submitted
a vulgar man, had come to learn their role and represented cold like a machine without realizing
what he did. Doll that made the mother of four children one of whom died in infancy. She loved
them dearly, and thank this, the deep appreciation grew that the doll had come to inspire ...
Wanted that had lived and the health, the faithful wife would follow him, making his role with
that skill he had given many years of hypocrisy. But for himself ardently longed more than
life and salad; wanted some, a little even he had ever had, freedom, in and out, if only because
figuratively, in that narrow embarrassing. Because I was in earnest, envied the beggars, as these,
the bulk that are enjoying it freely, as she ...

Venciola sleep. Not even felt the weight of the mattress leaning Bringas. Upon awakening, the first
thought of the illustrious lady was for prisoners chandeliers.

- What are you feeling?

- I think - said the husband with a deep sigh - not as good as I expected.

I awake since four. I've heard every hour, half and quarter. Itches, pain, and the idea of ??receiving
the light in your eyes I am horrified.

Steps in the morning in great uncertainty until the doctor came. This was discouraged and somewhat
perplexed, hesitating on the medical reasons that explain the decline of poor disease Thiers.
Was it a result of some excess in the food ...? Was it an effect of belladonna and disappear attenuating
the medication? Was it ...? In a word, convenient return to rest, not impatient, safeguard
eyes absolutely light, and since no bear to stay in bed, the chair should not move or deal with
anything or have gathering in the room ... The sadness with my good friend heard these requirements
is not for said. See, see? - Told his wife excessively nose swelling -. Behold what bags to you,
to want to heal in two days. I've been telling you, and you ... If you a boy ...

Abatidísimo, the unfortunate man did not say a word.

The whole day was in the chair, hands folded, turning thumbs on each other. His wife and son
comforted with loving words, the more he did not give a party, and how that pain was exacerbated
verbal palliatives. In the afternoon, the intelligent fish, talking to Rosalie's case, said
with much tact:

- I do not know how the first day you did not call an eye doctor ... This gentleman (for the doctor)
seems to me that I understand both eyes like a mole.

- So I said I - the lady replied, trying to express in eloquent grimace and lift shoulder the
squalor of her husband -. But you Vayalar Bringas with these ideas. Says no, the eye doctors
will not take more than money ... Not that he lacked. Has its economies ... but did not decide
to spend it for their health but in the last moment, when disease
and say: "Your money or your sight."

Very funny he did to D. Manuel picturesque interpretation of the greed of his friend and talking
to him later, he suggested the idea to consult a specialist in diseases eyes. This time the patient
received no bad indication.

Discouraged and impatient, felt that their economies well worth a ray of light, only saying: "Let
what you want to. "

At night, Milagros was to accompany his fellow in rags. Here, as there were no seen from the
previous week, I thought already solved the financial problem that put the Marchioness so distressed
in the last days of June. Frankly, I believed him. But both Rosalia as having the honor of writing
these lines, he noted with surprise that the aristocrat's face shone not happy those flashes of
expression that are safe Recently victory. Indeed, Telleria soon declare their little affair was
not solved but postponed.

By dint of entreaties he obtained an extension until October 10. Ran July 7, and only took
three days. For all the saints in heaven, do you love her friend, begged him ...!

Rosalie put her finger in her mouth, recommending discretion. Was around Isabelita and this girl
had the ugly habit of having everything he heard.

It was a repeater, and its presence was forced to be very careful,
because then he could not wait to go with the story to his dad.

Days before he had the good lord made you laugh with this accusation
innocent "Dad, says D. Manuel I go out to you ... in which I keep
all the rooms they give me.

"

XXX

Which earned him an affectionate squeeze and a kiss from his dad wanted.

And that night, feeling it enter her room, called her and sat on his
lap.

"Does your Mom ...?».

- It's in the Saleta with Marquise - said the girl, who spoke with clarity and speed -. He told me to
come back here. The Marquise was crying because we are 7.

"We are 7 - had said the Pipaón Milagros, clasping her hands and made a shame - and if by day
10 I could not meet ...! I will give a stroke ... You do not know how my head. "

It had been locked, and the solitude of the room, without light, because the master of the house
was frantic favor of obscurantism in all its manifestations, the
lady sore expatiated at home and squandered the treasure of your pain,
manifesting in a thousand ways to florida inspiration elegiac ...
The day he was unfriendly.

He liked the night to prey upon the contemplation of his sentence. Looking at the stars, she
thought she felt inexplicable comfort ... Stars like that promised
something flattering, or launched into the interior of his soul a
spark metal ... It is very pilgrim kinship with gold stars coined
... The poor do not had no hope in anything or anyone but his girlfriend
... She had received save her ... How?

That really could not say. Had appeared to him in dreams that angelic smile and one very distinguished
air ...

"For Mary - said Rosalie - you do not illusions, dear, I can not not I can, I can not ...».

- Yes you can, yes you can - Milagros said, with an insistence that exerted a certain fascination
in the minds of the other -. Just how ... The thing is not excessive. I was able to collect
five R $: I was only five thousand. Bringas ...

- I do not know what words I say to you that it is easier for us to drink all the water from
the sea.

- I forgot to tell you that I have here the letter from my manager,
ensuring that 15 to 20 ... I do not know what could best guarantee.

Also, do not miss a formal obligation ... If this does not is fixed, I can not bear the shame
that awaits me ... For sure I will find and find me dead. Sometimes I say, "Do not be a cataclysm,
an earthquake or anything like that before Day 10?. I think the revolution, and believe you ...
I wish there was something ... I just a week and shooting spree, during which people can not
leave the street ... But and that, dear.

Do you know that the generals Serrano, Dulce y Caballero de Rodas them as prisoners, and say
they will send to the Canaries and also banish the Duke of Montpensier? With these precautions alas,
no one to lift the rooster. "

- What Canary? In the fifth hell! - Pipaón cried with joy -. I like that, that put them away,
and no more shocks. That now conspire.

What will my child also give air ...? I'll tell Bringas, this is like gold to him. He ran the
lady to take her husband the happy news, and this rejoiced as if he dropped the lottery (so
no, but a little less), celebrating the fact with the most ardent expressions.

"Well, well, well. That is to govern. Then they say that Ibrahim Claret is gone, what is it more
alert than ever, very great rascals. Hey, now conspiring against the best of the Queens ... With
that in the shadow? Bravest man that Council President ...! It would give me two tight hugs ...
A Canary with them, as it were, to overseas! And if you lose the boat that takes the better
... I can not help, I feel like going out to the terrace and give
a live the Queen! very strong, very strong.

"

Very nearly do so as I said. A while later, Milagros flattered to talk dynastic passion picturesque
Bringas, and asked for the generals, not a death but hundred deaths,
and to all who conspire the scaffold.

With these things are very encouraged the patient, but alas, the next day was to be the darkest
in his life. Poor sir, after having spent the night very restless morning observed a loss almost
absolute power to see. The doctor was so stunned that not even hit the formulas elusive that they
use when they want to confess up. But man of conscience, finally learned to abdicate its authority
before producing greater evils, saying: "We must you will see an eye doctor. You see you Golfín.
"

D. Francisco believed that the sky was falling over. No doubt his
illness was serious.

Overcome by greed fear, not thought to repair the opinion of your
doctor and the whole family.

Shocked everyone in the prodigious distrusted most famous science
curator of eyes that had Spain.

Remembered not to delay the consultation or a day or an hour.

Ah, Golfín! ... Bringas knew him. He was a man of which there were
wonders.

Many blind had evicted view. In South America and North had won big bucks, and Spain is not
neglected even in this. Go ant!

To beat a waterfall to the Marquis Castro had taken eighteen thousand real, and for care of
a child's conjunctivitis cucurbit, had an account such that the Cucurbits, to pay, insisted for six
years. "But in the end, God help us, and go out with either of this. Heal me on this Golfín,
and let me in the pure leather ...».

Discurriose then whether the patient would go to consultation or
would come home to an eye doctor, deciding Bringas at first, it was
the cheapest.

"Paquito and I get into a car, and there ...».

- No, you're not to go out. He will come.

- It does not come, woman. These potentates of science does not move from their home rather
than rulers or people visiting a lot of money.

- I tell you to come. I'm going down. His Majesty will put four letters ...

- That sounds very wise.

And if the Lady wants to add that this is a poor ... better better. God bless you, honey.

And he came and saw Ridley, and his rough kindness infundiole encouragement and hope began to lose.
The ailment was not serious, but the healing would be slow. "Patience, lots of patience, and
exact compliance, escrupulosísimo what I prescribe. There is a bit of conjunctivitis, it is necessary
to combat readiness and energy. "

Poor, miserable Bringas! For the moment, bedding, diet, quiet, atropine.

Inaugurose with this sad life for the unfortunate Thiers.

Earned no longer take off band, then just drop saw, and gave him much pain, he turned to darkness,
in which His only consolation was to remember the words of Ridley and that heavenly promise
that farewell: "You see, you will see it has ever seen," meaning weight and fullness precious
faculty believe above all others of our body. See! ... But When God Almighty, when, Santa Lucia
blessed? Patience was not lacking in the poor man in that situation eagerly bent their minds to religious
contemplation and spent part of the lonely hours praying. His wife never left him, but when any
unwelcome visit forced him to, when afflicted with air entering Miracles, and calling apart,
regaled me with a couple of tears and caresses flattering ... Was no longer a Bathrooms think, unless
Bringas not be restored for the first days of August, which did not seem likely.

Fish was the most constant friends of the honoree that tribulation family. One afternoon he
could speak alone with Rosalie in Gasparini, she said: "We are now entering an era difficulties,
which I do not know how we get out. " To which D. Manuel said with a burst Quixotic, offering
to help in all those difficulties of any kind were. This noble thought entered the mind of
the lady as a ray of heavenly light. He could have some support in
the storms that will bring further life.

Had already behind it a place of retreat, a reserve for any critical event ... And looked around
If an arm, a shield ... Life offered flatter, more open ... "I'll look - I thought - that this
friendship and I honestly do not conflict. "

XXXI

Seeing her husband was so down and bloodied in Rosalia budded affection of other times; and the
esteem in which he always had depurábase of capricious malevolence to resurface large and cordial,
touching on reverence. Entertained in the vain thought the good lady your life partner for many
years, which, if satisfaction had not provided self-love very much alive, had given no trouble.
He remembered then that there prosaic marriage and quiet, full of
simple pleasures shortages and, if isolation seemed of little value,
valued in total memory offered a nice set. Al Bringas side had not
enjoyed it or amenities, or representation, nor pleasures, nor greatness,
and estate, none of which was his by right of its beauty and its being
genuinely aristocratic, but instead, how calm and how sweet the days
passed without choking or traps, or creditors! Do not owe anything
to anyone was the great principle of the man walking, and he was so
corny as honest and as happy as wretches. Surely if she had Fish hit
a man would be in position brighter ... "But God knows - thought very
wisely - the agonies that go in those houses where they always spent
more than have. That must look closely and pass it and feel it to
know it well. "

This is Rosalie, with the aggravation of her husband's
bad morally and mentally approaching to him, tightening the bonds
of matrimony. The attraction of misery wrought this miracle, and the
habit of sharing all the quota of life, and in bad as in happy. And
with what zeal he cared! What his hands to heal so subtle! With what
grace and Art poured the balm of tender words on the spirit of the
sick! He was so grateful, that never ceased to praise God for the
good they gave him, inspiring fellow that wonderful sense of conjugal
duty. Sweetened intimate joys and penetrated his sentence of religious
zeal, believed that the care of his wife were faithful expression
of care divine. Only when she was killed, because of his duties, left
her side; and each time he called for the smallest thing, begging
him to shorten as much as possible their occupations to devote to it