 You answer a pin head! I stop and answer the arm Pin! ...

Here the director of the Future of Lancia, which as he described his famous hit hard Gobble kept
while tracing circles in the air with his fork, he choked a thorn, suddenly getting redder than
a cherry. We had to get al fresco. Don Rosendo was who gave the punches well-known in the back
to throw the spine. Show beautiful example of nobility that can not ever forget!

After lunch, Don Rosendo and his companions got into the carriage and restored to Sarria. More
than half the population, and prevented by the telegram was waiting outside. A cry of joy escaped
from every breast when approaching the carriage. Don Rosendo, moved, pulled the head out the window
and took off his hat bearing the English piece of taffeta. In his view, the audience gave a cheer!
formidable. The vehicle was escorted by the crowd. The founder of the Lighthouse, cheered when he
entered the house, was compelled after a peek at balcony, which was new and warmly cheered.
At night, his friends presented him with a serenade.

XII

Had fun PABLITO

- Should put a bearded soft - Pablito said.

-
Or a steak - Pisces replied gravely.

They were silent. Pablito said:

- Damn horse! I've seen in my life sweeter mouth.

- A silk - his friend replied in a tone of unwavering conviction.

Another moment of silence.

- Do you think we should give more riding?

- The riding school is not superfluous to any animal - Pisces grunted with the same conviction.

-
Should work on the trot.

- It is a lot.

While thus conversing, the inseparable fair dirigíanse slowly from
the depot Don Rosendo, situated in one end of town, on the other end
of it, going through the middle.

It was ten o'clock at night, the mild temperature of spring. The few passers that the streets
were, dirigíanse briskly toward his home. Remained only stores open gatherings where did that
of Graells, that of the Morana, and as it tobacconist. The cabin had plenty of light and great
animation.

Pablito, in whom the bitterness germinated his father, he told his friend to pass by the hated gathering:

-
Pisces, throw a stone at the door, and break them glasses.

Pisces always terrible, grabbed a pebble on the street, waited for
his friend bent the corner, and bam! fit it into the cabin, making
the glass powder.

Then he gave running.

For those who know him do not come out in pursuit, he fell on hands, running on all fours with
amazing skill.

In the cafe of the Navy had also some people. Entered it and drank in silence paths glasses of chartreuse,
but why the brain would stop working actively. On rising Pablito said:

- What better hook with Romero.

- That's what I was thinking - uttered with fire Pisces.

After they had left, he asked, not with words but with a horrible
grimace, to where they went.

- Beyond.

- Well, then walk past the
house gather rattan.

They passed the main streets, but not before Pisces was arrested at his home an instant, to
comply with what he had to express. Very soon reached the extremities of the village, inhabited,
as a rule, the artisans.

They stopped on a certain street, as lonely as dirty, compared to a house in poor appearance
with rough wooden corridor. Pablito looked around as a precaution, and let out a soft whistle
prolonged expertise that characterized him in this branch of human knowledge. Then he said,
looking with concern the lamp that burned about fifty feet away:

- If we could put that lantern!

The terrible Pisces said the next breath, climbed the wall corner and with his staff turned it off
right away, breaking, of course, the tube.

A lump of a woman appeared in the corridor. Pablito took a leap into
bars.

Then by mounting them and climbed on the railing, was introduced
quietly in it.

Pisces began to stand guard around the corner, armed with his formidable club.

Who was the woman who at the time got the favor of the Sultan of Sarrió? The blonde Nieves, a voice
will answer those successfully followed the course of this true story. Although offended the insight
of our readers, the truth compels us to declare that lady runner Nieves was not the blonde,
but blonde Valentina.

How? "That surly seamstress as the enemy of the gentlemen and that she had a boyfriend named
Cosme?

The same in body and soul, with her golden curls on his forehead and
his eyebrows saladísimo nose a little rolled up.

Pablito was a man to make these and other major miracles. While was or seemed to follow his
affair with snow, "he was putting the dots" to Valentina.

But it resisted more than that. The first kiss he stole on his neck
while drinking water in cooking, sewing Arriscado "I made a scene."

Turned red as a cherry, expressive eyes sparkled with anger, and
shouted:

- Watch out, I do not suffer these things!

... You go to them with which it can withstand.

This was no doubt Nieves. Pablito more carefully worked on, but not less daring. Wherever requebrábala
found his way, he joked, was suffering with patience their "crow's
feet."

Valentina because it was the kind of artisan Sarrió, in whom the lack education is a gift to
add to the many who have.

Ventura's team concluded, and having no chance to see it, Pablito advantage School dances to
follow celebrating.

But that did not indulged Nieves.

The gallant young man guessed that the self-excited by competition,
would do more in their favor that they were personal benefits that
gifted.

This insight was innate in him. He had made clear since he the first
woman in love.

Which is one more argument for those who believe in the preexistence
the human being.

For only having seduced many seamstresses in previous lives, could
we youth have a very exact notion of the proper procedure for this
purpose.

At last he had surrendered. Began to leave her boyfriend. He concluded by giving evening appointments
as this the gallant Pablito.

- Do you sleep your father?

"- Was the first question it made as soon as you saw in the hallway.

- What do you care? - Said the seamstress resolved.

- Is that if you do not sleep ... you see ... Caspita, the thing is serious!

- Shut up, coward, shame you to give you! I will make noise for the pleasure of seeing you
run.

Pablito his arms and gave him a reasonable amount of kisses. The girl smiled happy. But suddenly
his brow furrowed, his face expressed great severity.

- Quito, Quito!
- Said turned .-- I have to ask you a question.

Where have you been this tomorrow?

- "This morning?

... In many parts.

At home in the Saloncillo, in the garage ... on top Pawn ...

- Have not you been on the streets of San Florencio?

- Yes, I've been there twice or thrice.

- And who have you found?

- Girl, what do I know?

... A lot of people.

- Have not found Nieves? - Asked the gentle seamstress repressed anger.

- Yes, I have found - he said with emphasis indifferent.

- Do not you ever stop to it?

- No, I have just said goodbye.

- Liar! Hypocrite! Whistling guy! - Valentina angrily exclaimed .-- Take, for fox! (Snuggling
a terrible pinch on the arm).

"So you've just said goodbye and I've been more an hour with her?

Here, tricky! Take it!

And I downloaded about a hail of pinching arms.

Good Paul was writhing in pain, but do not shout, because I respect
the father's dream of fierce girl.

- By God, Valentina, you're wrong
... It was not only a moment to ask whether embroidery had finished
my scarves ...

- Not bad moment!

One hour by the clock planted with it, laughing like crazy!

... I are taking forward of drowning in my hands, fox! Fox! But fox!

The angry girl, increasingly possessed by anger, threw his hands around the neck of her lover,
and was about to strangle him.

Was a pity to see so handsome and gentle young man with his tongue out and eyes full terror. Valentina
was indeed sorry for him and left him, but he still twisted coat
of arms a few times.

- I do not deceiving me, you know?

I do not deceiving me!

If I know that you've been with her excuses to come here anymore.

-
Well, I promise not to tell you more, but do not go ignoring the first
story to bring you.

- Will you do the word? - Cruel seamstress asked
looking at him angrily.

- Do not worry.

- Count on me if he does.

Rise!

This gentle and tender, was the philandering of Sarrió Valentina.

He, when he realized Pisces such dealings or some other friend, smiling
as man of the world stated that these irascible and arrogant women
are the most deliciously provide men, particularly those who like
him were already a bit worn.

After they made peace, or rather, after Valentina gave peace, there
a whisper that lasted not know how.

After not heard anything, and to be easy nor you could see much.

The corridor was as if no one in it. If it was not because it is ugly stain the honor of a
girl, we could suspect that the couple infatuation had gone into the interior of the house.

Pisces, meanwhile, was the sentinel walking along the street. And the case is not was he alone
who did. A man was stationed, since they had arrived in a doorway where the shadows thickened.
Stationary and protected by the dark, not have heard of Pisces. Taking advantage of a moment
he walked back to the house the man came out of hiding and crept to her. He looked down the
corridor and hesitated a few seconds. This was what he lost. When given the jump to fuck bars,
the terrible Pisces had returned and saw him. Two hops are planted below the corridor before the
intruder could ride on the rail, and with his famous cane, he downloaded
clubbed on the back so that the poor man dropped his hands and fell
to the ground.

Wanted to repeat the fierce centaur, but the man stood up and gave agility run so prodigious that
the second I got clubbed to the ground, and as for the third or even tried.

- Bad lightning! - Roared Pisces.

This must have come roaring in the ears of his happy friend, for a
few seconds after riding over the railing and got out nicely on the
street.

- What? - Asked, approaching his Orestes.

- A man.

- Where?
- The seductive again asked eagerly, turning twice around.

- I ran
away.

I caught him at the time of the runner up, and threw the floor of
a club ... Then he ran ... Bad lightning!

Neither Romero reached it at full speed.

- That Man - Pablito uttered silently - it must be a boyfriend who had Valentina for some time
... What would you do?

- Well if it was the boyfriend, unless it was to give a stab, I do not know what was up.

Pablito his arm over his shoulder at his friend, not to hold, although
the hamstrings is a little bent, but to say in a muffled voice:

-
Do you think that?

- A ... or two, or three ...

The beautiful young
man was silent.

After a moment he asked:

- You know him?

- I do not, do you?

- I have not ever seen: I just called Cosme, and is a barber.

Alejáronse in silence and quiet street reached Belinchón house. There, goodbye, Pablito told
his friend:

- If I go back there (which I doubt), do me the favor of not losing
sight of the corridor, right?

- A dog place - only answered the indomitable
Pisces.

The next day was Sunday and was celebrated in the customary dance schools all week. They danced
in the afternoon, from three to seven. The room was spacious, had built few years to school children.
These banks were piled on the platform for the teacher.

The walls were plastered with posters. The worshipers of Terpsichore, while habanera dance
languid, they were distracted by reading a portion of invaluable tips are intended to demonstrate
that virtue and work are the true treasures child: The child study will receive the reward of
his application. Faith and supplement the record talent. And there in the background on the teacher's
desk, the image of Christ crucified, oh vilification! covered with
a silk curtain, presided over those voluptuous and furious Havana
polkas.

It was the place where, without fear of water and sun, foreigners could see and admire in seductive
bouquet to the girls of Sarrió yeung. And indeed, there came all the captains and pilots calling
at the villa. His admiration sometimes slightly exceeding the limits of gravity British drove
them to approximate the long beards too blonde to a beautiful face.

- Are you dumb, Christian? - She asked putting his hand on his chest and rejecting hard.

- Crijstiano! ... Crijstiano! - Repeated in amazement .-- English be crijstiano What?

- Men of Christ. Do not know the dotrina? Depréndala Pus!

When they were to see those beautiful ladies, it was 5:00 to 18:00, at which time and had danced
four or five waltzes and polkas as many. Blood good clay, tinting of vivid crimson cheeks fresh.
The blond or black hair in pleasing clutter, spilled through space
or falling into lovely curls in the back, his eyes shone like stars
in those heavenly faces, red lips parted and wet to reveal the immaculate
pearls of his teeth.

And just because there never conclude. In this admiring Sarrió the artisans, no English we put
the foot forward.

In the female element of the dances had always perfect homogeneity: all of it was composed youth
placed in the same rung of the ladder.

But when it touches the male was dangerous variety, came to the place
the young artisans and gentlemen of Sarrió.

The first thought violated their rights under the jurisdiction of the gentlemen, both more as
it was disastrous for them, by repeated examples of mixed marriages that were made in the village.
We have already said, and if not, we say now that the Indians kept the ladies contingent of more
or less amojamadas, more or less poor existed in the population. The youth of the middle class,
defeated in this competition took refuge in the craft, and not had a very hard. But the poor workers
or sailors, overcome by the gentlemen, where they took refuge? They had no recourse but to the
pub and clubs. Of they had in each dance a truly fantastic amount.

There was hardly a Sunday when Schools did not leave two or three gentlemen with a broken
head.

Pablito was spared, so far, pretty good, thanks to his most faithful Pisces, which responsible
to carry the cudgels for him to be destined. The only setback he suffered in most of the fights,
was the loss of his hat. This was so repeatedly who came to find out what you were looking
for lost chimera. When a craftsman needed hat, I knew where to look.

Pisces but could not save him from blows he received some of that Sunday afternoon, not lack of
will on the Centaur, but because there are things that can not be ... come on, can not be.
How was the handsome young stranger to wring his mustache against
the mirror and align the cheeks with a soap that did bring Madrid,
an hour then had to be so fierce and cruelly crushed!

Were walking in the middle of the room so handsome, so brave, who
gave him glory.

Looked when aside, when another, as all real men of genius in these
cases.

Occasionally, the cross next to a lady, the said :--«¡ You so pretty,
Julia!

" Or, "those eyes are killing me" or "As there is not Torcuata Sarrio"
or words to happy I turned on the style in pure joy the maid.

But let it go, never missed a extent of its severity.

Because he knew that this was one of his outstanding qualities and
made him more appealing to the fairer sex.

Valentina had long expected. But the room was already populated by ladies, and the orchestra hypocritical
metal had performed two dances, but the gentle seamstress had made
its appearance in dance.

Sounded again the strains of a mazurka. The gilded youth turned to
closer the long form of the daughters of the people.

But our Pablito, faithful to his own, remained inactive looking cross in front of him fast partners.

After
the mazurka he was struck by the idea that Val would not come. The strained relations who mediated
between her and the author of his day, especially when he had a few glasses of wine into the
body, made it very plausible. A few minutes later, was fully Pablito convinced.

Is your state of mind coincided with the arrival of the blond Nieves
in the classroom. Its eyes met. The poor girl, abandoned villainously
did not even two months smiled sweetly. This sweetness was precisely
the cause of his misfortune. The handsome Pablito soon tired of sweet
women. However, smiled back, and passing at his side, told Mathematics:

-
You're going to attack bulls, Nieves.

The embroidery was carrying
a red handkerchief tied around his waist. This sentence of his former
lover caused her effect so alive that does not know what to say. He
smiled again and said, ah ... Yes ... No! and some other particles
that do not remember, and wanted to faint with excitement. In the
next round asked him to dance with him the first polka. The first,
second, third, and polkas all touched in the universe, Nieves said
the shaking itself came out from his lips. After he committed the
polka, Paul felt a great regret :--«¡ What fool, what I'm gross! What
if now comes Valentina? "

But failed. The orchestra began a prelude
to the opening stages. The young man, without removing Eye of the
door, hugged the waist of the embroiderer, throwing her in rapid flight
the room. Other young people, no less swift, coming from the opposite
side, and clear! first shock, then another and then another. These
meetings were an attraction in those dances. The Young, who persona
overwhelmed hairstyle or forced to falter, instead of feeling anger,
laughing out loud with pleasure vivid. Pablo and Nieves, who could
not take four steps without encounter with another couple, were truly
spellbound. However, the young, always passing through the front door,
I felt a slight tremor in the legs, and hastened away from it. When
the orchestra was silent, took his family into a corner of the room,
and there stood a moment mingled. Pablito felt burning in the ashes
of their love one spark of sympathy for this girl so happy, so peaceful,
so loving.

- I had no desire to dance with you, Nieves - he said
as he wiped the sweat with a handkerchief.

- And I with you, Paul.

-
Do you?

The girl blushed.

- Have you forgotten you yet?

- So much
time passed!

- You're right ... But look how I have not forgotten.

-
On Wednesday I saw him ... I saw you on the road of snow ... Going
on a white horse ...

- It was a mare.

- I thought you pulled.

-
Throw me! - Pablito said frowning .-- Loosen a little girl! I do not
shoot me easily as a pony.

- It 's what so great about jumping! ...
He would well up ... Jesus! I was scared.

- Is that the teaching
was getting out of hand - said the young man superiority, smiling
.-- As have not worked so far, it resists a bit. Ever give your boat
ram but overall nothing ... in the background is very noble of Linda
... Look, you, when I bought it, or, rather, when I changed the Negrillo,
actual 1500 giving up back in October, well you'll remember, had a
portion of zunas. I planted maybe in the middle of the road, terrified
with the cars ... in short, a lost animal