 At night more appropriate
measures taken to guard against the danger threatening the immediacy of the enemy, and quite right
to seize the occasion to egecucion of caution, and indeed were not useless, because at 2 in the
morning gave notice Guansapata Castle, which set in motion. Orellana sent immediately to obtain
weapons to the troops, it was not intended to defend the positions and left the room to see for himself
the intention, and found that the rebels had actually fallen to the foot of the heights occupied,
but suspended the continuation of his departure until the morning 6-1/2, where divided into
many pieces, and a movement of both armies, led first to the fourth attack, with more desperation
and ferocity than the previous, making gestures, expressing the trust which had the maturity day.

Why
not fainted those brave defenders constant, but rather in spite of continuous effort and care, suffered
in the days and nights of background, it showed his commander fearlessly
willing to stamina, and each occupying the position had noted, it
was all over the enemy with the most constant bravery.

Its main effort was directed to the trenches who ruled D. Francisco Barreda, D. Juan Monasterio
and D. Juan Caceres, because they recognized since the preceding day, which was abandoned James
Castle, whose fire the pony shed, and prevented the rebels near too much to them, like advancing
egecutaron repeatedly with obstinacy, however it was always rejected. On the back of the church
of San Juan, rushed to equal or greater effort, but contained D. Martin Cea with his squad of riflemen,
and cavalry Calacoto and Juliaca, reinforced by the slingers of the same people who had Orellana
Sent bet that post since the beginning of the attack. D. trench Juan Caceres flattered the hopes
of the enemies, and therefore repeated against it with more vivacity their efforts and attacks,
because having already succeeded in forcing the previous days, the persuaded that that place
could open the way they wanted to the interior of the villa; so that Orellana was necessary to help
with some soldiers who separated from others, where the danger and the need was not so much,
to increase their strength with some troops, of which was kept in reserve to go where more attention
by such occurrences. It was the general conflict and enemies constantly redoubled their attacks,
fighting with desperate obstinacy, confident in the crowd, opposed to that our constant resistance
everywhere when D. Andres Calisaya with a piece of horse made a turn at the top of the village,
passing through Guansapata Castle fell into Orcopata through the multitude of enemies who occupied
this post, and at the expense of bizarre and determined action, not only managed to surprise,
but leaving much admired courage, the besieged had a short interval to take some breath. But
very soon became again, and with greater commitment, to hostilities prevented from useful to break
down the walls the enclosure and sought an entry less difficult and dangerous, as indeed did
so, penetrating to the back of the Inn of Santa Rosa, where they set fire to houses on that
side, that already is considered possession. But a short time enjoyed the privilege, because they
were evicted from that post by the adjutant, with the troops under his command, who, after their rejection,
promptly interrupted the progress of the flames.

The commander of artillery, D. Francisco Vicenteli, always attentive to the passages that were considered
most at risk, addressed them from the main square a high heat, and so well, which punished and
contained to the rebels, until little by little they were giving up and retiring in the vicinity
of the population, and putting it on the side of the neighboring mountains. D. Antonio Urbina was
also a sustained fire from the Castle Guansapata, the son of very useful, particularly to
prevent the multitude of Indians, who tried to force Barreda, who
commanded the trenches and Monastery, they succeeded.

The Santiago, in charge of D. Javier Martin Esquire, directed their fire more frequently to the campaign,
where he fought cavalry contrary to ours, held again and a corps of slingers. From the fort located
at the four corners of the chief's house D. Anselmo Bustinza, they fired a gun at his own expense
cast, with which it defended part of the campaign was found on that side, and not just contained
to the besiegers, but also freed the fire to the whole neighborhood had suffered the misfortune
of Tambo de Santa Rosa, for being distant from the defense. Well that was the only win they got
that day: short in reality, and that in no way corresponded to the loss they had suffered in
so many and as repeated assaults, in which they had established an effort and consistency that could
not never expected or believed in a nation that had previously been considered a character fickle
and weak. The action lasted until half past three in the afternoon, when they had committed
all enemy forces, separating the attack that sent Diego Cristoval Tupac-Amaru, his headquarters,
rather than those of the Chucuito, thereby delaying their stubborn half hour but fruitless errands,
and removed all their camps, the garrison held to attend to their wounded, who passed 100, not
the dead who came to 60, more than rifle range, the loss can be deemed significant when compared
with those experienced in previous attacks, while proving the courage and determination with
which led in this. But love and constancy that encouraged the besieged, far from Apopka, became
even harder at the sight of the unhappy fate of their companions, and prepared to generous determination
to resist the assault the next day they saw as inevitable, when the first lights to warn the novelty
of that night have suddenly disappeared Tupac-Amaru Cristoval Diego and all his companions with such
haste that left rich field wearing umbrellas against the sun's rays, and many provisions that seized
consignments of the besieged, for the recognition of the campaign, and few days after they disappeared
also those who had come from the part of Chucuito, as is referred. Favorable effects which
caused the immediacy and presence of Lima troops with so much opportunity, that the defenders had to
undergo immediate and the end of the needs and dangers and the lack of ammunition and ammunition,
as a result of being frustrated all hopes of receiving relief from the cities of La Paz and
Arequipa. First, because all I needed to attend to their own needs and defense, and second, by
refusing entirely to lend its mayor, D. Baltazar Senmanat.

Finally free of all garrison and neighborhood of the town of Puno on the day May 24, 1781, and
the glory that they were spectators of their resistance, the troops of the viceroyalty of Lima,
field to a mile away, it remains to choose the means for their preservation and safety. I thought
the Commanding General, D. José del Valle, follow the marches with the army of knob to the
other provinces who were rebellious in the jurisdiction of Buenos Aires, sugetarlas and relieve
the city of La Paz, which on this occasion had learned the besieged a considerable number of rebels,
led by Julian Apas Catari Tupac, but many very poderosass reasons keep you from doing this
project, being among the most powerful considerable desertion of his troops was increasing
every day, but they knew a certain freedom as not to fall into enemy hands, or savior, providing
hereby discretion to swell his forces with weapons that are seized; evils which had increased
considerably after it was disclosed he had to remove them more from
their homes, and expose not only to new dangers, but also to the rigors
of a the most painful season of the year, and by the excessive frosts
and by the sterility of fields for the survival of mules and horses.

Determined in such a critical situation together all army chiefs to hear their opinions, considering
that their strength had been reduced to 1,100 men of arms between guns and lances, and 450 Indians
on the board and made all suitable reflection, felt their voice agreement will answer immediately verify
removal to the city of Cuzco, because otherwise lost foolproof troops and weapons that were,
without few remaining, fans of the glory of the Sovereign, the they submit a further appeal
to perish in vain at the hands of the rebels. Well thought However, with maturity and reflection,
who asked the circumstances of the case, he joined his-Chief the conclusions to the other,
and resolved the retreat to Cuzco, which announced to the troops held with many cheers, and after
seeing it was learned that this order will be dilated, had agreed to drop that night 30 soldiers
militants with 150 Indian allies.

Made this determination, did the call to D. Joaquin Antonio de Orellana, and for fter that
the state in which they were the provinces bordering with the city of Peace, as you said, if
conceived it could keep on, the town of Puno the help of 100 riflemen, which was all I could
leave, but the gallantry and courage commander, playing in his garrison the same defects that
had caused the prodigious diminution of that army, and that they would be free of those 100 men who
offered him, said they attended and well thought out the difficulties encountered, and fermentation
they were in immediate those provinces, graduating impossible conservation and livelihood Puno with
only one reinforcement, or at least he is not responsible for the continuation to of his defense
and considering the other hand the General D. José del Valle could not dismember but the number
of its troops to respond to emergencies that could happen in the withdrawal who had determined,
he found it hard to resolve and need to send the abandonment of that people who for so long
had frustrated all efforts made to espugnarle rebels; and consequent to this were given orders
to come out the garrison and neighborhood, giving three days of time to evacuate: minor term
that still later, reduced to two only.

This determination in the extreme consternation of neighbors, and not a little to Orellana,
who felt view reduced to such a wretched state, after having established their continued loyalty
to both Sovereign, with the suffering of countless calamities and work for the preservation
and defense of that town, which was abandoned the day May 26, 1781, with a general feeling of
how she had benefited from other provinces, and so these as the natural left abandoned their homes
all the furniture in the state that possessed because they were not may lead, owing to the great
shortage of baggage they had. Came close to 5.000 people of both sexes and all ages, the most on
foot and without Auxillia to monitor progress: pitiful sight that cruelly Heria in the heart of
Orellana, without discretion to do less painful, to which there were the difficulties of driving
the wounded who could not leave, because it inevitably would have been a victim of the rebels. The
garrison consisted of 136 rifle, 440 spearmen to foot, 64 artillery, 308 cavalry, 104 slingers,
and 1346 Indians of the same species, collected and from villages that had been kept faithful.
Orellana commanded before leaving the town of Puno, nailing all the guns, and buried in deep wells, because
they had no discretion or convenience for removal by the lack mules, and to prevent them from taking
over the rebels. He devoted all his care after to make suitable provision for his people was gathered
in the march with the troops de Lima, and even did it in part, failed to order and precision anyone
who wanted Major General D. José del Valle, for each occupied in the care and driving of his
family, too much of the training astray, and so it was impossible camps adhere to the dimensions
required by regulations for such military cases, it was so much embarrassment to watch, the growing
number of families which led. Some conceive best way to survive in Arequipa, went to the city, but
most would not deviate from their Commander Orellana, the honorable purpose of sacrifice for
the service of the Sovereign, in transactions that were undertaken subsequently against the rebels.

Marches
followed the Commanding General, heading straight to Cuzco, in relics its army garrison and Puno
neighborhood, and the center of so many troubles, had the relief to get some flour, coca and rice
and other supplies had been sent Orellana to seek to Arequipa, to the subsistence of the garrison:
relief distributed among all minor shortages of supplies to experiments. To the capital of anything
uncomfortable Lampa rebels, but since she began to feel and effects of the withdrawal, because
divided in many small divisions, is allowed to see placed on the heights immediately to the road
to benefit from these oversights, and load up the sides of the army and rear, killing cruelly
to those who are detained or astray.

In this conformity and untold work followed by a country enemy troops, not only destitute,
but also completely deserted. Transit through the Ventilla, near the town of Pucara, Puno
the unfortunate neighbors who came on foot, took the right path for Ayabirí. The enemy laid
them, warning they were separated and defenseless, and managed egercer their accustomed cruelties
on them killing many men, women and children, and seizing also of most of their poor luggage,
thus continuing in the withdrawal itching to Vilcanota end of the viceroyalty of Buenos Aires,
near which attacked to ours with so much courage, and with an air of confidence that at least
thought to get the advantage of becoming owners of cattle and baggage, but as it moved from
1.000, it was easy reject and frustrate his designs.

Fter writing again and D. Joaquin Antonio de Orellana, the Inspector D. José del Valle, from Yanarico,
as it seemed appropriate on the need that had to repopulate and maintain the town of Puno,
whose response was in the town of Quiquijana, full of pitiful considerations by leaving the situation
in the Viceroyalty of Buenos Aires, and the disastrous consequences could result from the abandonment
of that people, whose attention was ordered to suspend progress with all the families extracted,
in order to put them back in a better ratio as soon as possible to his home, where the Viceroy of
Lima approve it: but reproducible Orellana some serious thoughts that occurred to him again, for
being so far ahead, ordered him to remain at the city of Cuzco with everyone who was driving,
where every man is assign it any relief that serves their livelihoods,
to make the situation less painful unfortunate that they were, as
indeed was observed, considering them a daily moderate gratification
so they could stay.

In the Sichuan people found the Inspector D. José del Valle to Major General D. Francisco Cuellar,
who as stated in their place, he had stressed to the province of Carabaya to to pursue and kindle
the traitor Diego Cristoval Tupac-Amaru, his nephews and how to accompanied him. The rebels had
so carefully closed communication, which in any as long as this official was kept separate, only
came into the hands of the General a letter from him in saying to him had not received any
notice of the status and situation in which he was the army which was not strange, considering the
cruelty of the rebels, who in the village Santiago de Pupuja had arrested a self addressed to
him, and he had cut the ear, nose and hands, whose inhuman punishment,
immediately reported in that province had intimidated to such extremes
to all its inhabitants, that none wanted to be agreed carry a letter,
but being offered large sums for this hearing.

So that to this occasion could not tell D. José del Valle success of the active measures of this
officer, all fruitless, because the main rebels chose the extraordinary journeys and lost, and with
a higher proportion of hidden surveillance to the persecuted. Had on their way and take four glorious actions,
which defeated the insurgents, causing and raised serious damage, and proving themselves in all
their military skill, and the most constant desire to sacrifice for the service of the sovereign.

Since
becoming the military line that divides the two vice-royalties, was the defection of the troops
militia, and the Indian subsidiary of Anta and Chincheros, so exorbitant, that came D. José
del Valle reasonable grounds to suspect to abandon it entirely in the elderly risks, because
they no longer stimulated the greed of plunder that had stopped in part until then. But overcome
many obstacles, hardships and work, as it befell during that retreat, came to the city of Cuzco,
the day July 3, 1781, with the few troops that were left, diligence could not verify the neighborhood
Orellana Puno, convoys through 5 thereof, and by the arrest he had
made, as have been obliged to follow a slower start, owing to the
difficulties that occurred, little comfort and the proportions of
families who followed him.
