 

Beatriz said as he was, nevertheless, a certain penalty for the departure of her husband did not
want go to the gathering that night, but Inesita behind it, said there was no reason not to do
so all other nights, and after her sister did it was as usual.

The old loves the priest who accompanied them was when they were alone and on foot to socialize
without Don Braulio accompany them. That night the housekeeper also accompanied them. When they
arrived to socialize, it was already the Count of Alhedín, who from day to day was over neglected
their other social gatherings and entertainment, and going early
and not miss a single night Rosita's house.

XIX

On the third day after the departure of Don Braulio, Paco Ramírez received a letter from Madrid.
The view of the address, whose letter acknowledged the point, filled with joy, mixed with some
concern and surprise.

The letter was from Dona Beatriz, who, not for lack of affection,
but because of neglect, had not writing ever since the place was gone.

Don Braulio was the one who always wrote Paco and gave him news of
the health of all.

- What will happen?

What novelty is this? - Thought Paco -. Is he sick Braulio? Why Beatriz what I write?

Startled by such ideas, run opened the letter and read as follows:

"Dear
Paco: Even though I got mad because you call Braulio with much mystery,
pulling my side, all forgive you if you fill me soon and let him free
so that it becomes with his little wife, who does not live at home
without him.

»About forgiveness, you have my gratitude, if more of returning it as soon as possible I take
away, and you give me mimas you as he deserves, as long as there
to stay.

"Look, Braulio is very delicate health. Not weary leading him to hunt. Try it take care, because
it is so neglected.

"We, Ines and I are in Madrid hilarious. Every night we go gathering Rosita's house, the daughter
of Villabermeja clerk, who is now a countess, and one of the Elegant higher court. In his home
are not so common, more women than we, but are instead many of the most distinguished men of
letters, weapons and political. Is there the utmost cordiality. Seem all close friends and loving.
However, few days ago, two of the commentators had a duel, and one of them was injured. Fortunately,
the wound was very light. I could not find the cause of this duel. All I have said has been
for a trifle. I've felt much, because the match was between my two commentators favorite. It's a
poet, whose verses sound, religious, sentimental, touch me and very little fun, but in prose
is a knave very pleasant and nice guy in the background. The other is the flower of the principal
gentlemen: discreet, polite, funny and with a peak gold to entertain
women and around the world when in the mood and starts to chat.

The Condesito this because it is a little Count, I have love.

He loves me well, I flatter; yes, it is a flatterer and a liar of the first force, but I, although
I recognize their treacherous flattery and lies, let me be captivated
by them.

So we are good friends.

"Ines is always in the clouds, dreamy and
distracted, but good health.

'In short, it was really bad despite
what little we have to live in Madrid, where everything is expensive.

"Now
is when I feel the first argument since I'm here