 Come to bed. Nothing is more harmful to health
that this mischievous fashion of Madrid to make the day night and night into day.

- I'm coming - said Agnes.

He continued the housekeeper, who always accompanied her, helped her to undress, and get dressed,
and never away from her at night until she was in bed.

The bedroom of Agnes was set with singular care and cleaning. On the bureau, in a glass case,
they saw a San Antonio de Padua, package, made of clay and painted not vulgar artist. Young Ghost,
glory in Lisbon was very cute face, had good colors, as if life does
not do him penitent dent by the grace of God, and showed ecstatically
happy and contemplating the Child Jesus, who was in his arms and lavished
a thousand gifted favors.

Poor Inesita bed, three chairs and a small table was over which had writing materials were the
same neatness. Completed the furniture a pine cabinet glass doors, within which there were several
books and not a few curiosities and beauties of almost no value, but there were guarded as if
they were the most portentous objects art. There appeared, placed in good order, the wise men
and some shepherds and shepherdesses of a former birth, an angel,
two dolls dressed in a long bath, and several boxes and juguetillos
other witness who gave keeper was thorough and its beautiful owner.

The Inesita linen was in the comfortable, and the dresses and other
finery were kept in a dark little room, immediately to the bedroom,
where he perches, and where covered some indiana old quilts and coconut.

Inesita

first thing he did was hide the letter with the more openly between the pillow his bed and cover.
Then quietly left the housekeeper to help her undress, which was work a few minutes. And he
was finally in bed, her hair gathered no network or cap, but rich and adored loose skein.

Ines said he had no desire to sleep, and asked the housekeeper to let her light to read in
a devotional book for half an hour even. The love, however reluctantly, had to bring veladorcito
to bed and leave him a lighted candle.

During all this was not idle the language of love. Inesita almost always answered in monosyllables,
eager to have ended talk and be alone, but the mistress was in the
mood that night and not just with his thoughts and speeches.

Among other things said:

- Daughter, I can not reach the taste you can have your sister and her husband live in this
maze of the court. How much better we were in our town! Truth is that there salary was more vile,
but ... if there is a penny over here with a hard ... I confess, I'm drowning in these tabuquillos
and cupboard in which we live. How I miss those patios, those corrals of my land! In the kitchen
of Mr. Cure could all this room and too much room! And then ... living so high ... as perched!
Boy, there are steps to get here! And this is not the worst. The worst thing is the little or
no case here to make it. Madrid still I have no person to talk. Back in town, what a delight!
Out me on the street and there was no dog or cat that does not tell me: "God save at his mercy, goodbye,
love Teresa. How do you spend, ma'am? "And other things like that. Here there is no soul I address
the word and give me the good morning. Then everything is expensive, you eat gold or is necessary
dieting, or spend much money eating there. Begin shortly thrushes, and in our land reach up
to five quarters to get a pair. Go you to eat here two as fat as those thrushes. Ya, ya ... I
command you work ... On which there are none ... Y take ... If any, would cost an arm and a leg.
In faith, then you liked you little thrushes!

What eels? How about frog legs? None of this is our scope here but when they ring loud.

- Do not be greedy, love, do not be greedy, do not remember much of pots of Egypt, as I said Monsieur
le Cure, who used to scold you for that vice of gluttony - Ines said laughing.

- It's not gluttony, ungrateful.

I'm sorry for you, not me. I just dish alboronía or a gazpacho.

On the other hand, I'm not mourning only food but also other things.

And I mourn with good reason.

And if not, we are free ... Do you think it is so easy that in Madrid you skip a good boyfriend?

-
Let it ... I did not jump. If I'm not looking forward to having a boyfriend.

- Well, what do you have? What on earth are to have the girls?

- No woman, no ...

- No, miss, it is necessary to skip a good boyfriend and get married. Your sister is great, you
brother is a saint, but you should live life with them and half at
their expense.

Inesita sighed, and continued love:

- In the town, for you, you're a real girl, how he had to miss a rich
landowner, a homeowner or farmer with the kidney well covered, which
aspire to your hand?

But here I find it difficult. The rich go to the Marquesas duped and duchesses, or a thousand rascal
bad breed, who exploit them. What's left for poor girls like you? Nothing ... the cheesy nickname
that usually prodigaros ... and a liquid Don degollante, more shame and hunger more traps than average
living.

- Who knows, loves? - Said Ines -. Do not worry so much about me. God will provide. Goodbye,
and let me alone.

The housekeeper was forced to leave. He kissed his girl, and advised to turn off soon light and
fall asleep, they left the room, carefully closing the door.

Ines was not well in the desert, pulled out of hiding the letter and read as follows:

"My dear lady and dear friend: Despite the respect that I have always treated you, you will not
have noticed the more than brotherly love since you were a little girl teachers. The class difference
between you and me and my lack of fortune, gave me no never mind, while you were here, nor
could I even dream that you expect him to do so I said, accepting my hand. Since you lack the people
God has favored me, bless my work and sleepless nights, and I already
have incomes and means to live here with family, almost as well as
the wealthy.

This change or improvement in my position and the consideration that your sister and her husband
took an honest man and poor, and you should not be any more ambitious
and demanding that she give me after the boldness that I have missed
to the day, and I have to declare that I love and that I should be
the happiest of men if you come to me.

"I know the nobility and generosity of heart to you, and I know I will never marry you by simple
calculation, but I'm not so thoughtlessly enthusiast who does not understand that by giving
important step as the link for all and raise a family, not to be consulted, weighed and measured
the difficulties in life, and the resources that exist to overcome them. For the latter, I tell
you frankly, do not believe that it's offended, I have today Pretty good. From what I can tell
you I own circumstances, his brother and friend My Don Braulio.

"As for me, you know me and decide. I know you do not deserve it, but the love makes me bold,
and implore him to lend me the merits that I need.

"I do not want you to decide at once, but after most careful consideration,
so that not have to repent of lightness.

The life of Madrid must have special attractions for girls. I want to see you in Madrid, and
know and appreciate all these attractions, to renounce them, knowing what waiver, when I give
a yes, if by that I given.

If you would join your fate to mine, would be respected and loved here, and the surround yo
anything that might be pleasing, to the welfare and culture of these places I agree, but you
would have to abandon all idea of ??returning, were not a step large
cities.

My ambition and all my life plans are coded in care my flow and doing more in this town where I
live also my children, if God's given me. Why put a period to the answer I want, and I beg you not give
me the rush.

My impatience is great, but I restrain my impatience when this is my lifelong happiness, and above
all, of you, I is a thousand times more expensive.

"I have a whim and caprice call him because it would be neat state here the grounds on which is founded:
I have a fancy to you, in full freedom, without anyone to influence
their advice for or against, decide my fate, rejected, or favoring.

"So this statement of mine is a secret to everyone, including his wife's sister you, Dona Beatriz.
Only Don Braulio know the step I take, but he has promised Don Braulio
not advocate for me, and just give you the reports you requested.

"I will wait until within a month, at least. Do not attribute you coldness of my soul this long
wait that I impose.

Atribúyalo the idea so high that I have the solemnity and therefore commitment to induce you
to enter.

"I said to you to, but not you that dude, even despised, will always
admiring your affectionate and loving, Paco Ramirez.

"

Inesita read this letter with very great satisfaction, showing it in the lipstick that animated and
lit his face. No one, however, that would have been in that moment, except for powers supernatural
to read souls, if satisfaction had discovered was just vanity to
be loved, or even love for the person who was determined to woo her.

Read the letter, Inesita rose from bed, opened the top drawer of the dresser and kept the letter
in it locked up.

Then lay down again, turned off the light and placed comfortably to meditate perhaps on content of
that document, and sleep at last.

VI

The next morning, Ines and Don Braulio, while Dona Beatriz, less early bird that , was still in
bed, had a long conversation about the letter undoubtedly Paco Ramírez.

Then they went to church together the two sisters, then all had lunch, and finally, Don Braulio,
not without promise before that night would lead to the two girls of the Gardens Buen Retiro,
went to the Ministry of Finance. Although Sunday, Don Braulio prompted his departure, or gave
an excuse for it, assuming it was extraordinary occupations.

Back in his office, where no one had come over him, Don Braulio, instead of studying records,
long time was sitting with his elbows on his office and hands on the cheeks, studying himself.
This study should not give very satisfactory results.

Don Braulio sighed several times, knit his brows, showed some anger taking some punches, and
eventually relent and shed two tears, slowly sailed her face.

Then, as by way of ease and comfort, Paco Ramírez wrote the following letter:

"Dear Paco: Last night I fulfilled your request with all the requirements and precautions that
you gave me. Beatriz ignored and will ignore the step you have taken. Agnes is very secretive.
As the effect of reading your letter may have had on his mind, I do not know what to say.
This morning I spoke with Agnes, but the heart of a maiden is impenetrable, unfathomable as an
abyss.

Modesty, candor, innocence, all these garments, men believe long, are no longer a thick veil,
but a high, thick wall, which serves to repair heart to not be noticed or read what it mind
reading. Hence the deception men often have more clear, but are not cheating when you no longer have
Remedy: After marrying.

"Inesita seems, and I think that is candid, good, frank, everything you can imagine, but does
not leave you to discover not whether or not, but if your letter has not been flattered and
flattered. That's right: she has been very grateful for the affection and confidence that
inspires you. In terms I infer also told me something very important. If Agnes had thought reflectively
this other thing would be something to censor much thought, but I
think she feels one instinctively, not realizing comprehensive, and
sensible, however, fair. In sum, Agnes does not calculate or thinks,
but feels and perceives that your plan is bad and caused the error.
You will offer to be decided in a month or for the pleasures of this
capital, for the triumphs self-esteem can be here and ambitious hopes
which may be incurred in soul, or for yourself, your love and your
hand. This would be discrete if there were no circumstances it spoils
and has discovered her at once.

"It is this fact of your absence.
Missing you and present all such property, apparent or Real, who has
to leave for you, the game is not the same. Not you who struggle,
but your memory, which, if one side is worth less than the individual,
on the other hand may be worth much more if it beautifies poetry.
In short: Inesita not going to leave this for you, because you prefer,
but for the recollection of you, who has not seen for three years.
The memory also have to be confusing, incomplete, diverse lot, and
it will be completed and transform it with fantasy. She will not be
remembered as a woman remembers a man, as a bride remembers her boyfriend,
but as a young girl remembers her older brother. Has, then add the
imaginary quality of loving and thinking about you other than to now
thought.

"All this and more, you will understand without my saying
so, is stirred in the mind of Agnes. I interpret, perhaps I'm wrong,
but it seems to me that she wonders: "Would I like Paco, when he saw
him in town, as it should like a boyfriend to his girlfriend? "I loved
only brother? And if I liked as a boyfriend, was it because he deserves
it or because the people I had not seen other men who deserve it more?
Do not be happening to me now poetic Paco in my memory, and to find,
when you see him, well under the memory itself? In its own soul, can
not be such a phenomenon? Whatever it is, explain it as want to explain,
it is certain that nothing I said that I loved when we lived together,
and Now, I do not see three years ago, I declared his love and wants
to marry me. What is this? "Agnes does not answer such questions.
It does not solve any doubt that the assault