 While some smart smiling listening, no longer be considered,
after all, as young educated and "hope."

One afternoon, Miguel Brutandor called aside and led him to a corner of the Ateneo he proposed
to found between the two newspapers. For this we have a person who facilitated money, and the
general protection of the Earl of Rivers, which would be his inspiration. Halagole the idea
to our youth sees in this a way to awaken your sleeping activity and relieve the minds of lots of ideas
that were buzzing about her past political events and personalities involved in them. Thus accepted
with joy, and Mendoza was charged with taking steps necessary to remove the authorization,
rent room, looking printing, etc.. In a few days these matters were settled, and it was determined
that a Thursday, 1. April will display the first issue of La Independencia,
"liberal daily in the morning."

VIII

After the adventure of the wardrobe, Miguel tried to persuade the general who buys the Silence of
the maiden, in order not to go forward a similar scare. Resolutely opposed Lucia to it, neither
could nor would trust the key to the honor of a servant, and often spoke of betrayal, anonymous
aimed at general, intercepted letters and other scary stories that left no of concern to Michael for
some time. But at the same time being surprised that public as the desvaneos of the lady, would
have gone undetected for her husband. What was positive in all this, and they soon realized, was
that the nature of needed Lucia the encouragement of secrecy and fear. Craving, anxiety, sudden
terrors, waiting long, the last moments of distress, the efforts of ingenuity to find resources
the traits of courage, drama, finally, love pursued with all its mysterious device and dissimulation,
greatly pleased him. It was not shake, place signs on the balconies, hide her lover and kept
two fingers to be discovered, it was monotonous and annoying. Many times, being in bed late
at night, they shivered to hear the sound of a carriage! I quickly raised my head, hands clenched
clutching the arm of her lover, listening anxiously. Could not he come in her husband and
surprise? How scary! What anguish!

Only when the car was still long ahead house vibrating crystals, is soothed his grief and came to
life.

A new adventure very unpleasant, similar to the cabinet, came to end with the patience Miguel and
give courage to require serious attention to General to make his maiden aware of what was happening.

From
the adventure of the wardrobe, Miguel, where the maid was coming, hid in the bedroom under
the bed. One night, as usual, Lucy told him that was the hiding place for Carmen arranged with
the accounts of the day. It seemed that a great way to disguise and avoid suspicion. Then pulled
the bell, and having come to the moment Carmen was yet to take your mind calm. It was time for domestic
confidences: the girl, while explaining the use of money, amused to tell all incidents insignificant
in the day, nonadas of the house spoke at length of the grace of Chuchú, their appropriate
answers, realizing it was the skinny lady, complained Some swear the head, had to chuckle when
Miss Anne had bought a new rice powder box .-- Bah! Why women want that good rice powder? Of all
still has to go out uglier than Pici! - spent reviewing the easement and formulated judgments
and accusations. Mary did not get along with footman. The driver was very bad life his wife,
on Wednesday, had stuck with the whip until he was tired so .-- What Men There is evil! Eh,
Miss? To find one like that, you'd better be single forever.

The General tried to cut sharply the issues and short. Carmen went to the flattery that night
to prolong the conversation .-- How beautiful was the lady with the blue dress had since yesterday
afternoon! The Maid of the Ramirez had heard the gentleman tell his sister. All colors will come
right to the lady, but particularly the blue!

... Ah, blue suited him more than anyone else!

Lucia was touched for a moment: he asked with interest by Ramírez .-- Is it true that the gentleman
are going to Paris one of these days? An ugly guy, but nice: one day he had heard tell a very
funny happened. Then she talked about a dress she planned to be done, light-colored velvet
trimmed with crimson, an idea that had happened to her without refer
to the dressmaker, was sure he had to like a lot.

But suddenly turned itself and said quick word and dry:

- Come on, ... the tissue of the girl sixteen, eh?

- Yes, ma'am.

-
Is forty-three ... Have you bought V. soap?

- Nothing more than a
pill ... I do not remember if the lady had sent to buy two or ...

-
I had had to buy two, but no matter ... Where has put V.?

- In the
bedroom, on the night table.

In pronouncing these words came into the bedroom to find the pill.

When he approached the table, uttered a cry of terror.

Miguel was stiff at the bottom of hiding. The General, haggard voice asked from out:

- What is it, Carmen?

- Miss ... a man's hat on your bed!

There was a moment of silence, during which the heart was jumping Miguel terrible. The General
soon recovered.

- And so it scares V., silly? ... Stirring my closet, I stumbled on that hat Mr., I do not know
how he came to give him ... I interfered and I got it ... If V. wants
and can take some of it, take it ... is useless.

- Thank you, Miss
- said the girl, leaving his hat in his hand .-- I have a brother
who would serve maybe ...

Nothing more was said about it.

The General has continued to take the calm, pale face, the voice a little upset.

Miguel was needed to leave that night without a hat. He waited a while in the neighboring portal
and got into the rental car first hit to cross.

Finally yielded to the general's wishes, strongly expressed by her lover, and was entrusted the
maid. Since then, his interviews were easy and peaceful. Carmen prevented them with art all
molestation, provided them full security and peace. With this new order of things he settled
very well our hero seemed they had taken a great weight shoulders,
in fact too expensive bought before the pleasures that his friend
gave him.

But the general's not got along so well with the quiet and prosaic bias taking his love; security,
stopwatch accuracy of quotations, the kind that they enjoyed calm, the lost heart, began to
bore her, and she weighed herself that Carmen had been paid so willingly to serve. All life
had the skinny on the adventures, but late this hobby has been exacerbated in a remarkable
manner, felt an appetite voracious extraordinary, as if he escaped the youth and I can not
conclude without a big hit. So you can not satisfy with tragic scenes dream because Miguel laughed
at his fears, God exercise his overheated imagination in other kinds of whims rare. Nothing
could be done in their relations in a normal way, was forced marinate all with some sort of mystery.
In the theaters, to communicate any news, can speak without hindrance, he preferred to use
a number of Masonic signs or signals made mysterious fan, gloves, twins and other utensils
of which was sometimes no little confusion and perplexity to Miguel. The letters he wrote
were always signed with name of man, Alfredo, as if they were from a friend to another, but
why not let you come dotted with all sorts of passionate phrases, "I loves with all his heart
... Alfredo. "" Beloved of my soul, minutes away from you become and ever ... "" Yesterday, watching
the moon from the balcony of my room I was struck by the memory night ride we have taken a
few days ago and felt the tears sliding down my face ... " "I sent a tender passionate embrace your
Alfredo." If such letters would be astray much to think and laugh at them Topara curious.

And the truth is not in short supply Lucia, nothing pleased him so much as dissolve the ardor of his
heart spent on endless lines. I had read many novels and blatantly copied concepts more amorous
package: in particular George Sand, his favorite novelist, was supplying a load of thoughts, sometimes
delicate, sometimes quirky, with that season their incommensurable epistles. His dot was very
spiritual write, plagued of exclamation points and ellipses. Not infrequently, after passing
through a Miguel few hours, he sent for the maiden five or six sheets of fine print.

The fantasy of the General's was even more prolific in inventing new pleasures pilgrims. One night in
March, in which rare heavy snow fell on Madrid, looking rolled slowly down through the atmosphere,
it came on appetite making a escursión Retreat with Michael .-- What must be beautiful at
this hour! We'll see snow curdling on the streets of sand and carpet form. What a pleasure
to sink my feet in it! ... And trees! How are the trees? How beautiful! ... I love the snow ... Do
you dare to go? ... Did You?

Clear that Michael did not dare, and he deplored the soul that strange whim, but was ashamed confess.
Resisted, although weak, expressed some doubts about whether they would consent entry; spoke vaguely
of pneumonia, catarrhal fever, etc.. The General was not listening; the project seemed so original,
that nothing would bring it into work, was most romancesco that would never have happened.
Miguel agreed at last, though reluctantly. No However, when they went outside and saw the
sky was clearing and the moon peeked and its silver disc by the edges of a cloud, could not help
uttering an exclamation enthusiasm.

The Retreat was wonderful, wrapped in white haik. The infatuation couples through him with extreme
joy, stopping often to communicate their views. That landscape, a little theater, had to be
disposed of to the General's pleasure. He walked in perpetual ecstasy, leaving exclamations of
surprise away, talking about the sweetness of death, the unseen world and regions where love
is everlasting, ever thought so superior, so far above the common level of humanity as then:
sympathized sincerely vulgar beings in those hours were quietly sleeping, as they did not have
the magical effect of the moon on the snow. Miguel sorry not much, especially since I had sneezed
four or five times.

When viewing a corner where the snow had crystallized in more abundance, surrounded by high hedges
of rose where the trees let go of his arms, thin threads of light, the general's caught and captive
stopped, a bizarre thought flashed through his head and a smile opened his lips. Miguel took his
hand and led him gently to the center of that great site, and allowed to bathe for a moment by
the moonlight. Mil poetic thoughts then crossed the imagination of the lady. What contempt and loathing
which inspired him that time the frivolous world was forced to live! Since that immaculate
white nest should be promoted from the pure regions of the ideal, the country of dreams, to live
and trade with privileged beings, where passion reigns without absurd social barriers. He felt transfigured
into semi-goddess, sublimated by the pale light that flooded and white tapestry lay at his
feet, deified by the swarm of high and beautiful ideas fluttering on his head. The seized with
a fit of passionate madness, and hung around his neck suddenly her lover, covering her with kisses,
then, like a wounded bird of love, dropped into snow, forcing Michael to sit at his side and
began to recite the voice tenderly poem that he had been subdued ever, Le Lac, Lamartine. Holding
hands, together the temples, eyes wet and longing, set in the disk of the moon, both drag dejáronse
gently into the world of chimeras delicious and entrancing accent repeated what had been said
a thousand times already. The white mantle of ermine retained its mark until the sun came to
remove it.

IX

Julia let out a loud guffaw, whose echoes reached the office of Michael. "How why that crazy laugh?
"he asked smiling in the mirror too while dressed to leave.

- Michael! Miguel! - Shouted his sister from the hall .-- Come here,
by God, look, for your life!

Came solicitous, and stick your face in the corridor, he saw his cousin Henry in a pimp suit;
short jacket, sash, embroidered camisole attached to the neck gold
buttons, hat width of felt, tight pants and patent leather boots:
the complement of the suit was a stick in hand, very long, and intended
to drive turkeys.

Julita is against the wall, clutching his waist with the hands to
break a tendon laughter.

Enrique standing near the door, smiling a little embarrassed.

Miguel continued to moment the example of his sister.

- The thing is not worth much laughter - he concluded by saying the
cousin, amostazado.

But neither Julia nor Miguel was ignored.

When they had a little calm, came to examined him, and curiosity.

-
But how the devil has given you and the occurrence of wear?

Did you see your father?

- No: I have been to wear home from a friend I have there the suit ...

- Well if you can see, the fixed throws a fit. And what business have you dress cool today?

-
Takes! Do not you know that opens the season?

- Ah!

"Today there are bulls?

"Kill the cigar?

- You bet!: After fifteen years since I step on the square in Madrid.

That's what came to see if want to go with me.

- Men - said undecided - I'm not very fond of the bulls, but the cigar I've been nice ... Will
you bring me area?

- I bring you the contrabarrera from a friend who is ill. Beside me you know you can not wear, because
all gates are paid, but we're close.

- Oh, take me, Michael! - Said Julia flew into neck .-- Take me to the bulls.

- Do you desire?

- Very big! I love bulls.

- That, that! - Enrique shouted enthusiastically. You are of pure Spanish race. Pisa that hat, chiquita!

And
onto the floor.

Julita minced no fuss, took the compliment to the letter and began to taconear the unfortunate hat in
such a way, that if Henry does not come in time it shatters.

- It's clear that you can not be polite - said in a bad mood while cleaning with the sleeve of
his jacket.

Miguel, prior permission from his stepmother, sent the servant for a home of Lazarus barouche
and a box to a reputable reseller. After mother and daughter wore the classic Miguel blanket
and changed his coat and hat for the American and the fungus, rose four to the carriage.

It was half past two o'clock. The sun was shining in the sky without a cloud peep the horizon
to get a touch paternalism. Madrid enjoyed the privilege of her divine sky without addressing
even a look of gratitude as a Sultana who caresses cause boredom. To cross the Puerta del Sol, saw
the jet source, firing glimmering flashes rise above the roof of the Principal. At the entrance
of the Calle de Alcala was a long queue of buses that crowd assaulted
a wistful, angry, as if they trying to escape a serious and immediate
danger. But quite contrary to what happens in such cases, instead
of opposing each other to climb, everyone helped with application
showing in advance what should be and what will eventually universal
brotherhood.

- Hey, good man, to be V. fall ... Deme V. Knight .--
hand, have I V. by the cane .-- No set V. foot on the wheel .-- Want
V. we pressed for more? Well, man, well, we tighten.

These cries
were heard everywhere, seeing some poor old through the air, high
the imperial arms of the bus at already in it. Faces glowed of joy,
just as the sky. The sidewalk on the right, where was the ticket office,
curd could be seen people that ran it in expectation that the towns
go down and verifications at your pocket. A number of private cars
and saloons covering point below the wide road, galloping towards
the square and through of them, leaving them back at once, ran runaway
buses, while those who were above, without fear of crashing, intoxicated
by the giddy race, greeted with cries joy to those who were leaving
behind them. Some picks with brocade jackets huge hats and also on
some evil galloping horse, carrying to the flanks to a friend affectionately
embraced him not to fall. The pawns slowly down the sidewalks, in
friendly conversation, forming tight and many groups