 

It follows from the above and still be clearer if I extend the size as requested the case that
the very nature of things, and without any one complaining about it, or do you blame a chapter
of our century, or the past, and now men, or of that time, the most universally respected, loved
and revered is money, and therefore, the one he owns. Even the same heavenly souls, pure love
of love, glory and all the good and holy love of money also go as a means excellent success
with other crushes those ethereal.

The average man loves money more than life. Any person, almost sympathetic that is, secure account with
a few friends who venture for her life, which would sacrifice his life. Many take the field
in a duel to the death to defend Tell a friend! Almost nobody, however, would sacrifice his wealth
by a friend, or the twenty or hundredth of its volume. It's a drowning man, is another burning
alive a burning house, and this is in honor of humanity, who seldom lack for saving ventures,
be thrown into the raging waves or flames. However, the saving hero perhaps a few days earlier
had refused to give alms to the real two-person saved now so generously. Conversely, the most
graceful ever consider the sacrifice that is made for them a small sum of money, that of life
itself. And this for a thousand reasons very fair. Life is sacrificed or exposed to anything,
the money does not. No ragamuffin not have a life exposed as any other life, but not everyone
has money display or sacrifice. The tightrope walker, the tamer of beasts, the bricklayer standing
on a scaffold, the miner who enters a mine unsafe, in short, almost all men risk their lives
for anything, for a miserable wage, for a paltry amount of money. What did Edgardo more by
Lucia di Lammermoor, which became more D. Suero de Quinones by the lady of your thoughts that
he can do and makes every moment, with less noise, the last lost, to earn a few pesetas? Therefore,
a considerable amount of pesetas worth more than the courage of Edgardo and the gallantry of
D. Serum.

It is clear that the poor, but can love, can not express your love
so clearly and as bright as the rich.

So the rich are generally more beloved than the poor, even by disinterested women.

The money also gives intrinsic merit, and have him not go away, you
will decrease or blight.

The Money gives good humor, politeness, good manners, and, as would a diplomat, fluent fine.
Nothing, however, binds and roughening rather than poverty. The poor are timid and shrunken, or
go always done a beast. Every word in the mouths of the rich is a joke, where the same confidence
that their thanks is going to be laughed and applauded, giving encouragement and inspiration,
to be funny. The awe with which everyone will look, taste that all you hear, makes looks funny, but it
is not. But it is, and no doubt it is. I, for example, I heard from a man very rich all over
rude and dirty beads referring the farmhands of my land, and that not even the lure of novelty
for me or should have for anyone, and yet I laughed like a fool, I have done very much, and I
have found attic full in the mouth of the Lord. I also believe that indeed they were, because
I did not move to reírlos or celebrate with false laughter, or by interest. Security superiority, quiet
magnetism that having money brings, produced this phenomenon.

Not surprising, then, that the rich are loved and admired. On the
day of love more disinterested than before.

Never, for example, fewer men have been held by women at this time, the exception under the legal
form, though awkward, the coburguismo. In other ages it was common, almost universal, and not bad
watched the illegitimate coburguismo male, from Cyrus the Younger to Epiaxa, Queen of Cilicia,
woman is to believe and buxom, that hero who drew a lot of money, to the gallant knights of
the court of Louis XIV and Louis XV.

What is the female coburguismo, legitimate or illegitimate, is still
at an early age as the world from Raab and Delilah to the graceful
and elegant Cora.

This is more excusable coburguismo than the male. Lope de Vega he apologized saying

There was fierce poor Lucretia That, to give Don Tarquin thousand
reais She was softer and less silly.

      
    
    And Ariosto, with the caption precious dog, inserted in Orlando, I
apologize more.

I do not apologize, but I apologize, but not only by the selfless love and admiration sincere
infuses the rich man, and not a beast, even in the choicest souls and nobles.