 He wanted to know, throbbing with emotion, all the dangers to which he had been subjected
and the young warrior "ancillary services" spoke of his concerns at the office during endless
days in which troops fought near Paris, hearing from outside the thunder of artillery. His father
had wanted to take him to Bordeaux, but the administrative confusion Late kept in the capital.

Something else had done. The day of hard work, when the governor of the place in cars launched valid to
all men, had taken a gun, without anyone calling him, occupying a vehicle with others in your office.
I had not seen rather than smoke, burned houses, killed and wounded. Not a single German went
before him, except to a group of prisoners Hulan. There been several hours lying at a roadside
shooting ... And nothing else.

For the moment, was enough to Chichi. She felt proud of being the girlfriend of a hero the
Marne, but its intervention would have been a few hours.

But to pass the days, his character was overshadowed.

Bothered him out into the street to René, soldier, and ancillary services in addition ... The
Village women, excited by the memory of the men who fought in the front or dressed mourns the
death of any of them were aggressive insolence.

The delicacy and Republican Prince elegance seemed to irritate them. She heard repeatedly passing
thick words against "ambush."

The idea that his brother, who was not French, I was paddling, made him even more intolerable
Lacour situation. Boyfriend sought a "ambushed."

I laugh at your friends! ...

The senator's son no doubt guessed her thoughts, and this made him lose his peace of mind smiling.
For three days did not show up at the house of Desnoyers. Everyone thought he was held by a clerical
job.

One morning, speaking to Chichi Forest Avenue escorted by her maid
coppery, he saw a soldier who was walking toward her.

He wore a brand new uniform, the new blue-gray color "horizon", adopted by the French army.
The chin strap of the kepi was gold and carried a small sleeves piece
of gold.

His smile, his outstretched hands, the safety coming towards her,
did recognize.

René official! ... Her boyfriend, Lieutenant!

- Yes, I can not anymore ... I've heard enough.

Behind the father and using his friends had done in a few days this
transformation. As a student at Central School, could be a second
lieutenant in the reserve artillery, and had requested that we send
to the front. After the auxiliary service! ... Within two days was
about to leave for war.

- You have done that! - Exclaimed Chichi
-. You made it! ...

He looked pale, with greatly enlarged eyes, eyes
that seemed to devour admiration.

- Come, my poor baby ... Come here,
sweet soldier ... I owe you something.

And turning his back to the
girl, invited him to immediately turn a corner. It was the same: cross
street was as crowded as the avenue