 Why not confess? Because I love you, I laugh to myself thanks. So
TALES AND DIALOGUES I've loved to write and even to read and reread them after writing. And
this is pretty win, but the charm of fun no pass from me or forward to others. I feel sick, but
I will console myself by imagining, because self-esteem is very subtle inventor, if not thank
me laugh the other is because such because they are disguised and hidden in the text, and so
did not see who did not penetrate and deepens. I will try, on another occasion, to thank, if
I have something more superficial. Meanwhile, be content V. or rather not upset by this that I dedicate,
for I know I do that, if it is something and if you joke, V. will find him, but I need to have
where is the funny indicate that V. I laugh.

Believe me always your good friend

J. Valera.

  Lisbon February 20, 1882.

  
  
  CONTENTS
  
  The green
  bird Parsondes The bermejino prehistoric or blue salamanders Asclepigenia
Gopa Santa

THE GREEN BIRD.

I.

There was, in very remote times in which we live is a powerful king, loved to end their subjects,
and possessed of a fertile, extensive and populous kingdom in the regions beyond East. King had
this immense treasure, and gave lavish parties. Attended at his court the gentler and more discreet
ladies and brave knights who then had in the world. His army was large and tough. Their ships
traveled the ocean as if in triumph.

Parks and gardens, where I used to hunt and loose, were wonderful in its grandeur and lushness,
and the copy of vermin and birds that ate them and lived.

But what of their palaces and what was locked in his palaces, whose magnificence exceeds any weight?
There delicious furniture, thrones of gold and silver, and tableware porcelain, which was less
common then than now; there dwarves, jigantes, jesters and other monsters for the leisure and
entertainment SM cooks and bakers there deep and prominent, which took care of their bodily
food, and there no less profound and eminent philosophers, poets
and lawyers, who tended to give grass to his spirit, who attended
his privy council, who chose the most difficult questions of law,
which sharpened and exercised the ingenuity with and logogriphs charades
and singing the glories of the dynasty in colossal epics.

The subjects of this King rightly called him the Fortunate. Everything went from good to better
for his reign. His life had been a fabric of happiness, whose brilliance marred only dark shadow
of pain with the early death of Mrs King, a very full and beautiful
SM who had loved with all his heart.

Imagine, reader, what the cry, and more having been him, by the same love he had unblemished,
innocent cause of his death.

Tell the stories of that country that the King had seven years of marriage without achieving succession,
but vehemently desired, when a war occurred in the neighboring country.

The King departed with his troops, but before he took leave of the Queen with great affection. This,
giving him a hug, he whispered: - Do not tell anyone to not laugh if my hopes not achieved,
but I think I'm on tape.

The joy of the King with this new no bounds, and as everything goes well when you're happy, he
triumphed over his enemies in war, killed by his own hand to three or four kings had made him
do not know what trick, devastated cities, made captive, and returned loaded loot and glory
to the beautiful capital of its monarchy.

This had happened in a few months, and thus to cross the King with
great pomp in the city, between the cheers and applause from the crowd
and the clatter of bells, Queen was giving birth, and bore with happiness
and ease, despite the noise and agitation, but were primiparous. 

What
would have appalling taste as SM when, on entering the royal chamber,
the midwife more the kingdom was introduced to a beautiful princess
who was just born