 Cursed be that in the labyrinth artificial
societies have overthrown nature to put in place the pedantry and founded the citadel of lying
on a pile of books amazacotados of nonsense! ... Do not laugh. "

- He's crazy - thought Amparo, and continued to read:

"My good friend
is determined to heal completely.

The first part of medicine has not been ineffective, but now comes the second, Torment mine,
the second, more fierce and bitter part. But I have sworn to obey, and for me not to be. I am determined
to get to the end, idly surrender to idiocy, to see if it, says Nones, my salvation comes
social and spiritual. Is a good example that follows, and rejoice, for want of sight. Nones writes
me that has got my little square for the Philippines and I have, to the long travel, which I
think a trip to another world. If escorted, how happy! But I alone, and muérame than once.

"I do not know yet when to go out, but will be soon.

"Between my sister and I arranged Nones passenger spending and the rest you need. From this I planted
in Alicante to go next to Marseille. This is forced, final, irrevocable. It is also like taking
a stab, but I give it, and see where and how they rose. Imprudently to disobey my friend to give
you this parting. Do not say anything if you see it, and get my last goodbye. Keep me compassion,
as no other feeling. If you get a nun, pray for me; Consecrate two
or three tears telling me from the dead, and I ask God to forgive me.

"

The letter did not say more. Among those messy jumble of concepts, typical of a madman, with
mixture of slapstick and a wise idea, a fact underscored happy. Dispensed under all for no
more than the fact. It would be leaving for good! "Pray for me, telling me among the dead, "the
letter said. This statement declared dead and buried forever that horrible past, and the serious problem
is solved naturally flat, without scandal ... Joy vivid flooded the
soul of the Empress.

Thank God for this unexpected incident, saying to himself: "It goes, it's all over! God paves
the way me and I have nothing to do for me. "

The idea of ??the remoteness of the danger cooled his courage emboldened
by confession and willing for a new confession.

The weakness, recovering momentarily lost his empire, settled with pride at that naive to be not
born to tackle life, but to receive as it under the circumstances.

The postponement of the danger brought the urgency of the remedy and
not, perhaps, perhaps useless.

The strength of the penitent fainted, and the distaste and the difficulties of declaring their
future bitter spirit.

He agreed to break this temporary solution that offered the Providence, and was reluctant to
procure strict and secure itself.

"That is what I said is no doubt - he thought - but I think it does
not run so fast.

There easy to devise the terms in which I have to tell. "

He was delivering the letter to the embers of the fire, when the bell announced a Knight. He entered
and sat opposite each other. Empress watched her lover, and only with thought that he had to confess
to blushing. What a shame! The impetus of that morning, where were
they?

And carried away the easy course of a conversation insipid love, was forgotten the mandate
of the good priest. At times bustled his conscience, but soon the same awareness, Warm yourself
is sprawling on a bed of roses. Notably, both by temperament lovers, his dialogue is interwoven
the spirituality of this occasion with practical ideas and insights on the most routine of life.

The greatest happiness of the world was, according to Knight, in which two characters sip your
own harmony and to tell everyone: "I like what you !...». When he (Augustine) the knew, had
to feel very great sadness, thinking how beautiful it would be to treasure he ... When she
met feel like they gave him mourn, thinking that a man of such items
could not be its owner ... Because she (Amparo) was worthless, it
was a poor girl who if had any merit was to have a heart inclined
to all good, and love to work ... The things of the world, which sometimes
seem ready for everything to go contrary to the natural and against
the desire of our hearts, that time had been fixed for good, for harmony
... How good was God! He also had passion to work, and if you do not
distract love and wedding preparations, it would be boring. As married,
would start a business