 That day was not meditation and contemplation of the beauties natural
for the sole purpose of his trip. Had other more practical. Was she going to pick strawberries
wild, the very delicate that wood produced in abundance, and also take florida some blade of
grass, called waldmeister, which puts on perfume and Conquer and season the Maitrank, delicious
drink of that season and that he liked very much the Countess widow.

Waldmeister looking strawberries, Poldy had strayed from the castle and deep in the the forest, far
more than it used to. Thus came to be in place very lonely and wild where the thick broken trees
that were crowded with dense foliage, had a small lagoon. On the opposite side of that to which he
had approached Poldy, stood a dark and dilapidated tower. All the land surrounding the lake was
damp and vicious. Fumes malarious birds were scared away from that place. Birds not glad with their
songs and chirps as they did elsewhere in the same forest. Almost sunk roots in water here and
there were cattails and reeds in crowded clumps. On the face of the sleeping water, then curled
not the slightest breath of wind, extended the blade and the round green and broad leaves of
water lily, whose white flowers stood in the still air. Foot of Poldy sank into the grass had grown
very high. Every time fixed in the soil one of her little feet, frightened frogs in the grass
were hidden, and gave great jumping, splashing in stagnant water. The noise was the water, Frogs
duck it was the only thing that interrupted the strange silence that reigned around.

Poldy, by hasty and curious instinct, he walked by the banks of the lagoon to the site where
the tower looked like.

And being already very close to him, suddenly saw an object that although she was not shy,
I was a nervous shaking, for being so suddenly and when least suspicious. He was a portly white
stork, who left behind the tower, and without the slightest fear, but gentle and serene, it
came up with step Poldy slow, grave and majestic. Occasionally shook his head from side to
side with a graceful coquetry. When was closer, took a few hops, extended and long wings flapped
as a sign of joy, and repeatedly opening and closing the red peak, was a son very similar to
castanets. Turning then to walk more slowly and with some hesitation, as if respect him contained,
kept walking toward the bird pilgrim Poldy, and stopping every two or three steps as if waiting
for the permission to get to it.

Poldy understood the intention of the bird, not fear anything because
he was considered harmless, but missed that show him as loving and
as resolutely as long strides as he strode spandrels came to her as
if she were an old friend.

Would you have known and dealt before and did not remember then? Poldy sought in vain by all
the deepest and forgotten breast of his memory some vague memory of that knowledge and treatment.
Was not the least trace even the slightest trace if any have ever had. The same could be seen
than ever stork Poldy had met because, although could not quite express in any human language
but only castañetazos resonant with its peak, slow of gait, their frequent stops and each
of the looks that way to her brown eyes seemed to mean interrogation Poldy and supplication, as
if to say: charming Countess, may I see I close and treats? There was also in a stork do not
know what the exotic: a weird way of being, well similar to that note in a traveler of distinction,
came from very remote countries, with whom by that stumble and struck up a conversation without
thinking or intending, and only because of sudden and mysterious sympathy.

Poldy undoubtedly sympathized with the stork. I fell in grace and earned him the will to compliance
respectful and friendly, so the stork gently looked at her. Admitted, back in himself, knew the
stork treat people as they deserved, and that naturally was endowed
with exquisite good manners, but because parenting is not learned,
but rather should ease called fine or refined touch of world.

Finally, Poldy acquiesced to treat the stork without anyone present and not knowing who was
or how many quarters did, she gave also to her a few steps, and reached out and pleasing in his
head touched.

The stork was left was stroking and satisfaction and caresses those noble taste caused him, squinting
eyelids as if asleep and gently rubbing the long neck on the cover of the lovely lady. It
passed the hand down the neck of a stork, lowering it to the width crop, all covered with abundant
and white feathers. Then he realized with surprise that the stork had there, suspended ribbon
very subtle, a small piece of silk fabric, which flexible and crowded, was very little bulk.

Poldy
could not resist the curiosity or the desire to seize defeat from that pledge. Soon So broke
the tie bar through the garment hung the bird's neck and was with the garment in her hands.

It is not known if frightened or angry then the stork which might consider stripping, removed the
lady suddenly, spread his wings, flew, soared into the air and finally out of sight.

Poldy was embarrassed as if he had committed a theft villain, but in the end, dismissed the scruples,
thinking that she had had no intention of staying with the garment and was ready to return the
bird if the bird came back to it and somehow the claim.

Poldy unraveled after more than a meter of ribbon was wound into the fabric of silk, giving form
of ball, and unwrapped the cloth, which was the color of apricots,
was written in it with very black ink in strange lines and several
tiny letters.

She looked at them and the Remiro, but in vain, because no one knew. Though he knew and exploited
moderately disciple of his brother, Count Henry, could not quite intently to determine which
alphabet language and those symbols and words belonged. He suspected, however, that registration
silk fabric were in Sanskrit, a language he studied assiduously and enjoyment of his brother Count
Henry.

III

Poldy the castle again spurred by curiosity and eager to decipher
his brother he what the web said.

Lunch with very good appetite, and then, while the widowed Countess asleep after lunch, as was his
custom, he went to the library with her brother Henry told him about the bird mosquito, taught
him the silk fabric and begged translate what he had written it.

Count Henry confessed that he was well versed in the language to translate
Valmiki suddenly the verses, as undoubtedly were verses there were
in the fabric, but requested time and promised her sister have an
exact translation of all on the same day.

Indeed, just hours after the count sought Poldy, took her back to
the library, and triumphantly showed him the verses and translated.

-
Do not know what to think, he told his sister.

Sometimes I imagine that the stork came from India, where spent the winter, and the verses
are the work of a Brahman, or Nabob Rajah well illustrated, and sometimes,
I suspect that it may be a learned countryman of ours who wrote the
verses and who hung the cloth on the neck of the stork to tease the
one who find.

- What end - Poldy said, was to propose a countryman
of ours with that cheating?

I not yet know the verses, but I assured that the author lives on the banks of the Indus or the
Ganges, and not on the Rhine or the Danube. Let's see ... read.

- You'll see and you'll find some inspiration in the verses more European
than Asian.

Compositions are three: two very short, and one of these two seems modeled on four lines of
the Prologue in Heaven of Faust. The coincidence is unlikely. And, although not impossible,
I find strange and suspicious that a brahman read Goethe and imitate
him.

- Come on, read the verses without further preface.

- The verses
say:

I wish to heaven the brightest star; I call this land their
fullest; And no love near or distant love Touched my heart quieted.

-
True, "said Poldy, the verses are very similar to those of Goethe,
unless the poet self says what it says Mephistopheles of Faust.

-
Well, hear these others who have not stopped metaphysics which Christian
mysticism by Tauler style of the teacher or Eckart:

Without wings
and without light the human mind In vain in search of the ideal is
released; But the will goes boasts The immensity of eternal hope.

-
That's true, - said Poldy, and the same can happen to an Indian, a
Christian.

In India since ancient times, so I've heard, mystics as deep as Germany. Moreover, in all countries,
must have been thinkers and poets to imagine and express that could penetrate and come up with
a love that never goes up and enters the rationale by subtle and large it is.

- I will not argue.

I agree that a Brahman may have composed the song that just tell
translated.

    Maybe I in the translation I have rendered
    a European look in the original does
    not. Hear now the final composition.
    The poet falls in it lifts mystical, and folds and human as any earthly
love with love and sensuality inspire women.

Something, however, is still in the composition of the mysticism of others. It's like a small
piece of the Song of Songs, or better say the Gita-govinda, whose
compliments, tenderness and material descriptions can be interpreted
by otherworldly style and transcendent.

The composition in this case also has a uniqueness that has neither the erotic romance of the
Hebrews and the Indians.

    Crishna Solomon saw, heard and touched
    beautiful and love your friends, but
    this poet or touch or see, or
    hear his, if not the imagination with vague uncertain, and in such
a manner that it can live on this planet in another very remote, and
the same may be our contemporary, to be born the last forty centuries
or even be waiting another forty in the world of ideas, before it
reaches the day of his incarnation and its occurrence among people
of our caste.

- Very curious is what you tell me, but it is not original
or new.

It's so hard to be new and original! Do not you love Elena Faust, who lived 2500 years before
he was born? Is there no Arabic or Persian tale, where a Muslim prince, who lived two hundred
or three hundred years after Muhammad, is madly in love with some queen or princess of Serendib
or Sheba, which flourished in the days of Solomon and was Sulamita rival?

- All that is true, but even more vague and indeterminate Mrs. thoughts of our Indian poet. The
Muslim prince in love with the rival Sulamita had found and admired the portrait of her father's
treasure, while there is no picture or is there any indication through which to glimpse or have any
idea or notion of his lady, the author of the verses I have translated. Hear them carefully.

-
I'm all ears.

Count Henry read thus:

Where are you hiding, my beauty, they do not get to see my eyes, As I dream of my fantasy Full
of grace, free of anger?

Come do the Kokila sweet gurgles Do pay the lotus aroma in the wind Come see my longing wish And understand
you my understanding.

You're not dreaming, you really are; Do not pretend these spells soul, Although most beautiful
women Yours will call the immortals.

In the pure light in your eyes Love lights your darts gold and your lips are sealed ballot box
Source of their pleasure and treasure.

Ora reside off the ground Ora show up in another age, For the three worlds in rapid flight I will
go looking for you.

Bright pearl, though hidden In the deep sea are, I find you know,
it's my life For me des exalted prize.

    Poldy heard the verses carefully
    and discussed them with his brother
    and even tried with apparent
    critical coldness, giving some merit and pointing out their many
flaws.

    What she concealed and not revealed
    or his brother or anyone, was the swarm
    of assumptions and dreams verses
    that arose in his imagination.

    Already contained writing them
    an elegant look young brahman, not
    far from his magnificent villa,
    in green bower, on the fertile banks the Kausikí, as composed in
his own palace Ayosia Crown Prince of Kashmir or any other of the
kingdoms and countries that described the ancient epics.

    But the author of the verses
    was a contemporary of her and looked
    her end by the disease and passion
    that tormented him.

    Loved or rather wanted to love,
    nothing worth seeing around
    him of his love, and looking away,
    blindly and without guidance the rare and precious thing that deserves
to be loved.

    
    
    In the depths of his soul Poldy pondered
    much on this, and wove and wove countless stories, their feeling
beautiful, with which she delighted in secret without telling anyone,
not even the old governess Justina who was his confidant.

IV

Engolfadísimo in their studies, Count Henry had no will or understanding but to continuance. In
other matters of life was always subject to the understanding and Poldy will of her sister, whom he
loved greatly. Prohibiole it to speak with one of the meeting of the stork, the verses and the
translation, and Count Henry obeyed and I stopped everything.

Poldy did not want his mother to know of anything.

The Dowager Countess was a lady endowed a positive spirit so prosaically, would certainly have
destroyed all his speeches the poetic assumptions pipe Poldy had risen and that in no way wanted
She nobody tear down.

The widowed countess and Zaheri also accused his daughter frequently, calling it extravagant
of dreaming, hallucinations, a staunch enemy of the wise and reasonable, and reckless unattainable
ideal persecuting and absurd. If the widow Countess of thought and ignoring Poldy the success
of the stork, did not they think and what would not say if he knew?

Poldy not return, then, to talk about him or his own brother, as if his own brother ignore,
or as if she had the pretense that he forgot.

Alone, then, and freely, Poldy be included as they desire, the author
of three poems.

Already assumed in Varanasi, and Delhi, and Calcutta, and elsewhere in India, but always noble, young
and beautiful, and Kshatriya or Brahmin, if not a prince.

The unknown character suffered a mental illness similar to Poldy.

Symptoms were contempt and disgust for his surroundings, and the vague desire for a good remote,
dimly layout and a half vanished in the mists and vapors of a thousand
dreams.

Poldy discarded by vulgar and foolish belief of his brother, a German
scholar had Sanskrit verses composed for entertainment or to show
their expertise.

For her there was no no doubt: the verses were the work of a distinguished young gentleman from
India.

Poldy We often went further in his bold imagination. She did not believe that the bird mosquito
that had appeared to him had the slightest resemblance or the swan Leda nor the white bull of the
brave daughter of Agenor, but might not be an instrument of the stork
a great sage, perhaps a genius or a fairy, whose powerful suggestions
had obeyed coming to visit?

Who will dare to limit the extent possible? If we were not to believe only what we understand,
only we would believe anything.

Sometimes came to the memory of Poldy a story of the Thousand and One Nights, and delighted to boast
that what she had spent some resemblance to the story. In the more elevated regions air, met
one night a fairy and a genie who were flying in opposite directions.

There he talked and confided that the fairy came to visit and leave the most beautiful sleep Prince
was in the world, and that genius, from the other end of the earth, came to contemplate and admire
a beautiful princess also asleep in his bed virgin there in the recesses, elegant and perfumed
boudoir of his magnificent palace. Genie and Fairy proposed that Prince and Princess to meet,
fall in love and marry, and the media to turn to do up the mess of that history. Poldy, while smoothing
much the supernatural, and modesty, for the skepticism that is so characteristic of the century
This, he suspected that everything that happened could very well be quite naturally something
that coincided with the oriental tale.

She had heard and had even read recent works dealing with Theosophy, which is ? In India, some
scholars called Mahatma, which force and regular introinspección Honduras examination in itself
be able to acquire great and rare find secrets of nature, by virtue
of which perform actions that look miraculous, but are not.

Would not it be perhaps the author of three poetry mahatmas any such business that Poldy had
guessed, he had interviewed mentally, he had taken with her and ? to communicate their views
and send infuse his lines without much surprise, half had used the bird naturalísimo mosquito,
which takes proper condition, nothing of witchcraft and other evil arts, to spend the summer in
Austria and winter India?

Thus mused Poldy, forging and disrupting fantastic cases. It was like a child that entertains
in keeping up with care and good balance and complicated high house of cards, then knocks
him for fun and games raising others.

In sum, Poldy not know what to expect or why their minds. No statement itself what Castles
raised by it was the most liked. What I could not fail to recognize was that the task of lifting
and ? demolish the no small delight.

V

Poldy sought solitude then more than ever.

In discussions with his brother, his mother and his nurse, appeared distracted. And We often
avoiding any company, would give solitary walks through the forest.

Even ordinary comparison as well as can be surmised and envisaged that the most CONSCIOUS to find a sweet
candy is good, and guessed that insurance Poldy again to find the stork on the banks of the
pond where he found the first time. There was such abundance of frogs, lizards, frogs, toads
and other vermin, which was the land of promise that bird to mosquito, which, by their large size
and the extraordinary length their wings, covered in extreme shiny and black feathers, knowing
that was left male. What Poldy not manage to determine was whether the bird was married or single.
Poldy he was always seen as just did not understand their language, not asked if he was married,
and in Spain we often ask the parrot, which respond to the question.

It was also a mystery to Poldy where the stork nesting.

He saw the shores of the lagoon. The bird castañetazos greeted with loud, hopping and flapping
wings, which open covering more than two feet.

It was one of a kind notabilísimo individual merit.

He seemed pensive and thoughtful, but very good things should be quiet. Poldy waiting in vain
and even fantasized about the miracle of the stork speak, but the
eloquence of the stork ever went beyond the usual castañetazos and
some grunts and whistles out of tune, which were all his language.

With this, nothing could be made clear.

The stork was very friendly and very gentle with the young Countess.

No grudge against him because would have taken the fabric of the verses. Rubbed his head and
neck from the garment the pretty lady, and seemed to like that she pass a hand through his long
neck and wings, preening him.

These silent conference, which took place two or three times a week, lasted little and we can say
that they were very entertaining. Moreover, the stork had the instinct not to bore, and conferences
always ended quickly and in a sharp, darting suddenly in the air, tracing graceful spirals in
the serene flight of the day out of sight.

He spent the spring, spent the summer, came after the fall, as always, and finally began to appear
in winter. Poldy then had inklings that the stork was about to emigrate and return no doubt the
dream palace, to the eastern city, the temple or the fifth, where the author dwelt verses.

Irresistible was the temptation he felt to write. Why was there not to do so by style prudent and
decent that did not commit?

Poldy also thought that although it was not unlikely that by operation of the jinn or Fairy or
under mahaturas science, the author of the verses have been achieved clear vision of it, would
never be more than enough to send a good picture of her in photography.

In our times does not mean this very decided favor. Any subject, the most plebeian of fatal, could
be bought for a florin Poldy portrait, exhibited in the windows of many Shops in Vienna, among
the beauties of the court and the theater, including princesses, actresses and dancers. If
any ragamuffin Poldy compatriot could have its image, what audacity or impropriety which would
have to send it through to the wading birds poet incognito I could not but be a prince, nawab,
Brahmin or Kshatriya, back in the land of Rama and Sita, Nal and Damayanti?
Given these considerations and others in the same order, which are
omitted here to avoid prolixity, Poldy, wrote a long letter, very
thin paper to bulge slightly, took a picture yours, without board,
on which picture was very pretty in her low-cut and elegant suit dance,
included it in an envelope with strong backing fabric closed and sealed
with wax; wrote above: the unknown Indian poet, pierced with a punch
the card, ran a strong the tape through the hole, and thus prepared
everything, hung it around his neck as if the stork was the insignia
of Commander of any illustrious Order