 And after last Alto de Boa Vista, when running in the woods, they had been seduced the beautiful
panorama of the Cascatinha.

- Here - Isidro ordered with unquestioned authority -. Never be made a challenge with such a beautiful
backdrop.

Too bad it does not come with us a cameraman! What the world lost tape! ...

Apartábase the slope in the vicinity of the road, forming a meager valley. The rock appeared
the trees cut vertically, and from the top of it a mass desplomábase Water hitting the highlights
of basalt. Boiling the water with several drops white foam. The dust often raised their bubbling
took iris reflexes under sunlight. Sweaty blackened by damp stones,
shone as if blocks were metal.

The tropical vegetation moved the large hands of dripping leaves.

Waterfall plunged into a small lagoon, running after, foaming and
whispering, by outstanding fairways in the rocks.

Tangled vegetation and loose rock left only open and accessible space a small uneven ground.

Maltrana
thought about the difficulties that offered this area for battle, but was seduced its beauty and
refused to go further. Where can I find more interesting decoration to a death possible? Had to
raise our voices, as the clash of the waters dominated all other sounds. It was by way of orchestral
trills that hit the theater a poignant highlight words and gestures. Isidro felt greatest in the
moist environment and sound.

The forest still seemed behold with its thousand green eyes, between amazed and curious.

Began to give orders to the other sponsors, who followed him as the
neophytes are the great priest of a new cult.

"That car was withdrawn just past the waterfall! Drivers not advisable to witness the act. "

And
Maltrana was obeyed. The drivers drove back their carriages, but then, with hands behind his
back, feigning distraction, back quizzically at the same site, tiding
of knowing what was going to stop this mystery.

As successfully got rid of another witness unwelcome: a dark-colored little boy naked legs and
large straw hat, which saw the convoy rushed to get out of a canopy
of reeds, cleaning a glass and offering it in a stream full of water
after edges.

He was the guardian spirit of the waterfall. Under his sunshade on a table, had several boats sugared glass
and other sweets, shriveled, blackened by time. Passed hours in absolute solitude, watching
the fluttering of birds in the foliage color immediate monotonous melodies extracting water humming,
speaking perhaps with thinking of Cascatinha naiads, which showed
in their rumps stirrings funny of white foam and velvet iris.

- Take
'menino' and get out of here.

Maltrana had one of the witnesses gave him some money for him to go,
and will also called "menino" - all I knew Portuguese - thus believed
flatter.

But the "menino" saved the quarter, and instead of leaving it stuck to him, as though divining
the importance of person. And I could not move without finding its way to the mulatto with his hat
pushed back, raising her eyes to his, drinking with his eyes words
and gestures, as if in the presence of a magician and do not want
to lose detail.

Isidro resigned himself to such disobedience, vulgar blunders of reality ... But we had to
proceed rapidly. Adelante!

Measured striding a space of twenty feet, which was agreed on paper
in his hand.

A little more distance was marked by their footsteps. But he was who had proposed twenty feet, and
with the same law could be measured thirty or forty if he felt like ... Just a minor detail.
Forward too!

After setting a branch site each opponent, drew back, staring at the
ground as an artist covers his work as a whole.

It was somewhat uneven. One of the two was to be very high, belly almost to the level of the
head of his opponent. But there to comply with the defects of the land, the circumstances did
not allow much detail in the preparations. An equally trivial detail. Come again!

Only then turned his head, looking at his teammates.

On one side were the sponsors, which continued its operations in respectful silence, not daring to give
them their ignorance disturbing. Further, with slight separation, the two enemies, who turned
back, too busy to follow the fall of the waters or the fluttering of birds in the tops of trees.

Gomez's
friend, with eager curiosity of tragic events, had followed in these preparations. Behind him
came the mulatto, opening his eyes more and more amazed by not understanding no such witchcraft.
The two young Argentines added the issue had been raised to the top
of a rock, and there sat with their legs dangling.

Below could see all alike, but they were considered mere spectators, and had tried to occupy
a place preference, a box, rather than remaining mixed with the artists.

Maltrana dodged, throwing a coin in the air, the place of each of
the combatants.

Then accompanied them to their sites with a severity funeral. He appreciated very much, "my dear
friends "but disappears sets such affection, and speaks only duty, terrible duty.

By having everyone at his position, feels thoroughly, removing his clothes the portfolio wallet,
keys, papers, anything that might be an obstacle to the fatal bullet. Then he buttoned his
jacket, turned up the collar, so that the white shirt not serve as a focus, the fingering of the two
affectionately, like a mother bumble their children before sending
them to ride.

But his kindness did not go beyond touch. In contrast, authoritarian and cruel eyes! ... Voice,
which seemed like a funeral bell in making its appalling recommendations! ...

The relentless director would put guns in their hands within a few moments, but before passed
from one to another the details of combat, not to lead to errors. When the two were ready, he
would give the voice of "Fire!", adding: "One .. two ... three! ".

In space between these three numbers would shoot. The fire him to do sooner or later "Would
be disqualified ... would be a felon, a miserable ... and contempt for everyone having honor
would fall upon him, chasing him throughout his life.

Maltrana Terrible! Twisted his eyes with a shocked expression when speaking of felonies and betrayal,
as if it had horrific punishments for offenders. His voice assumed a awesome tone, and both contenders
and not think from this time his aim to set good or the possibility
of being injured.

His only concern was not to incur the anger of that man who could make an eternal stigma of honor
before the world, continue their lessons which disciples obedient fire - where the bullet would
be - within the marked term. "Fire one, two, three.

After it was decided to open the valise Maltrana hand which contained
his arsenal.

Extracted it contained two revolvers in the same vessel, and with measured solemnity of the
opening, for that all sponsors examine its interior.

Gomez's friend, as an expert in weapons, witnessed the ceremony.

- There is only one capsule! - Said shocked, as if he had just discovered
an irregularity.

Maltrana looked at him severely. Young: combat conditions had been established advance for serious
people present there.

Two bullets would change nothing.

- But in every gun there is only one - the gentleman protested mestizo.

- Young - again said with a condescension Maltrana protector -: change two bullets means each
fighter only shoot one.

And as a suspected outbreak of mocking gesture in the face and narrow
eyes coppery Gomez, added:

- No more is needed to kill a man.

All I have seen death were quite with a bullet. Do not forget you, girl.

The young man stopped, regretting their boldness, feeling respect for this extraordinary man I had
witnessed many battles and deaths.

To erase the bad effect of their objections, was paid to be carrying the bag of weapons to
the place occupied by the opponents.

The three sponsors, thus concluding its work preparation, which could not be more passive, instinctively
took a few steps back. Gunpowder was to speak.

Maltrana, drawing a revolver from his confinement, he rode the key and put it in the hands of Baron,
away then the other fighter.

Gomez gave the Belgian a quick tip that was on guard with the gun in the air.

- Fellow, point to the feet. I know the guns, they always send the
bullet above.

Believe me, at the foot ... always at the feet, and make sure meat.

Then, on the opposite side, gave the same advice in a low voice and eyes gleaming with excitement.
"At the foot, buddy. Toss to toe, and he puts a bullet in the belly. I know something about this
... " The two thanked him for his kind indication with a slight bow. But it looked like worried,
thinking of other things, cocked their ears not to suffer the consequences of fatal delay, mentally
repeating the same thing: "One, two, three ...».

Maltrana was to be placed outside the line of fire between the two fighters more near the German,
who was occupying the high place.

He suspected a moment that was too by and could catch a bullet in their diversion. But he was the director,
had organized everything and all owed obedience. The weapons were loaded for him, and was not
acceptable or correct a projectile's insolence was allowed to go after him.

Gomez also hesitated for a moment if he would retire, but when the teacher still stuck him. Where
was a man, she might be next. Moreover, he seemed to lose some of this show Again, the waiting
great emotions, if retreated a few steps.

Maltrana were available to give beginning to the match, but first as an actor who prepares the phrase
decisive and looks at the audience, turned his eyes around him. Moment of emotion. The other sponsors
had gone even further, the three drivers, aware at last the object
of the raid, clustered at the foot of a cliff, moving the dark heads,
greedily opening his eyes, but they reflect emotion.

The two Argentines were at the top of the rock with legs dangling, as silent and attentive viewers
who see the curtain rises. The little boy had fled the waterfall to see the guns, with a restless
dog trot, refuge under the curtain.

From there, as if he feared for the integrity of those jars sweets,
which were the family fortune, covered in his arms, advancing the
snout, looking at everything through the eyes of frightened antelope.

Landscape seemed to reflect the general excitement. No parrots squawking in the immediate thickets; the
monkeys had ceased to jump between the branches became long before the fall sounded of a leaf or tree
bark. Sing to the waterfall seemed muted, as if were babbling and
frightened the white gods hidden in their lymph.

Maltrana suddenly was agreed that it was the first speaker on board
of Goethe, and considered appropriate to speak of his eloquence.

Never find a better setting to place a speech.

And the first to be moved by the pathos of his words and his voice trembling, was himself. He recalled
the close friendship that had united the two adversaries, his journey
"braving the dangers of the sea.

" A moment of forgetfulness or mistake had led to an unfortunate
incident; but good men, when they get to where they had come, without
fear and without reproach, could still be a fair explanation, avoiding
the release.

An approved sponsor, another wry face, possessed of sudden bellicosity. They had gone to there to
hear sermons. Soon to shoot guns, and escape before they could surprise. The two Argentines
looked at the top of the cliff.

- Geez! How well you speak the Galician!

Gomez's friend whispered, as if he began to lose faith in the teacher:

- Much ceremony to kill two men! ... What baton! ...

Isidro was really touched with something like an emotion of fear. These challenges arranged lightly,
to get by, were often the most tragic. A dreadful premonition warned him that the missiles would not
be lost. Anyone going to play.

And as the opponents remained silent and was visible impatience of
others, Maltrana gave his eloquence failed.

"Whatever you want to fate ..."

He took off his hat theatrical solemnity, bowed his head as if in front of him pass the fatality.

-
Salute to two gentlemen who are going to die.

He said this with genuine emotion, as if the death of both was for him an inevitable event; and affirming
the long scratchy throat, threw the shouts of command.

- Ready? ... Fire! One .. do ...

He could not finish. Sounded almost simultaneously two sounds like the beat of a tablet two clicks
of whiplash with two puffs of smoke.
Both sides were still standing, it looked as odd that nothing had
happened. Suddenly the Baron ran towards his enemy, he advanced to
meet him, and collided both her breasts while spontaneously crossed
arms in a loving squeeze.

The Argentines were removed in height with
a voice of surprise and protest. Do not you fired more? And what was
it? ... They had stolen the money.

- Tongo ... Tongo! - shouted at
the same time.

One of them, grabbing a piece of loose rock, he wanted
to throw it by way of congratulations on opponents reconciled. The
other was to imitate, but they stopped, surprised, then sliding down
rock ... There was a hurt. Maltrana hunched over with one foot between
the two hands. Intended to hold Gómez, the sponsors ran toward him.

Following
the shooting had been a crash on the right foot, a very violent crash,
much more painful than a stamp, and shook with tremors of agony all
the sensitivity this part of your body. He was wounded and became
increasingly concerned when looking at the foot and do not see it
as sign of perforation or spotting.

Gomez showed himself outraged
by the stupidity of one of the two shooters.

- Son of a big bug!
... If I get to give it to me!

Her eyes shone at an alarming rate
just to think that this would stray bullet could touch him. Instinctively
carrying away a hand to his waist. The friend had attended Gómez the
challenge bringing his revolver, so that may occur.

All surrounded
Isidro, hands, looking in vain for the wound that tore deep sighs.
No sign of the projectile. Only a slight depression of shoe leather
on the spot numb the pain. 

Sought Gomez, meanwhile, with his head
down looking at the floor. His instinct of man field, used to study
the smallest accidents of the vast plains of Argentina, her with the
wonderful "crawlers", diviners of Pampa, I did find the explanation
of this mystery. He drew a few steps open a tiny hole in the ground.
There was bullet buried