 You'll see that I'm also terrible as a squadron of cavalry charging to gallop on
the enemy.

Juanita, near Dona Ines, fascinated watching her cat eyes, which seemed
red light mixture of fire and blood.

Then he continued:

- What is the decency that I recommend that you not miss? Who recognizes that decorum born poor
like me, the daughter of a woman washing tripe and black pudding to win it their livelihood?
All despise me, treat me wrong and think worse of me. So far I have suffered; but I ran out
of suffering. I must be terrible if necessary.

In the same books you have made me read not only extols the servile gentleness of Ruth, but, if
possible, the ferocity of Judith, who slaughters the captain of the
Assyrians, and the frightening feat of Jahel, crossing with a hammer
and nail the temples of Sisera.

Noting that Mrs. Agnes Juanita a bit scared to see it and hear it
so savagely biblical continued smiling

- But do not worry not overtake
you.

He is not obliged to play in such extremes will not the river of blood. Although it will be severe
lesson I give, there will be a tragedy, and will in farce.

- But
what will you do, my child?

What frenzy is yours? - Dona Ines asked, deeply moved and loving.

- You'll see, if you want - said Juanita -.

Everything I have thought, but you must not know and not see it.

- How? Where?

- Come home with me. There are only a few minutes to get the appointment
time.

With give me the value your presence.

- That's another thing - said Dona Ines.

Doña Inés thought, no doubt, in time to taste that would have contributed to flick Don Alvaro,
which would come very proud of the appointment and she would be in his austere consort.

Indeed, if the launch went well, but tragedy would be farce.

Doña Inés lost her fear and felt the irresistible temptation to see the farce and even make
in him one of the leading roles.

- Okay, Juanita - said -. Go to your company and I'll lend you my assistance. Fine test I'll give
you my friendship with this, because I can also get involved.

-
Understand each other - said Juanita -.

I do not want your help. What merit would then my victory?

You do not undertake, because you will be hidden and nobody will know you've been in my house. Nor
will expose you to any accident, because you will see the bulls from
the scaffold.

- Yes ... but ... explain yourself, do not make me
go blind ..., explain yourself ....

- It will happen when.

Urge to go home. No time to give explanations, nor you the need.

Ea, despáchate.

Take a shawl, throw it better to face so you do not see it. The People walk entranced by the procession,
which probably ends at this moment, and will not repair or you or me.

And speaking of this sort, the same Juanita looked for a shawl, put it on the head Dona Ines and,
taking it ahead of himself, pushed her and made her walk.

Dona Ines dominated by that imperious creature, she got carried away.

Both came home in Juanita.

This, for Rafaela not see who entered his house accompanied someone
else opened the door with the key in his pocket.

The two women, quiet and toes, climbed to the upper room.

Missing and a few minutes to eight.

The bedroom where he slept Juanita
had no light except that entering through a round window, open on
the bedroom door that led out into the room. In this, and not in the
bedroom where there was room enough, washed, combed and dressed every
morning Juanita. In the bedroom there was little other furniture than
the bed, a nightstand, a closet for clothing and three chairs.

Juanita
Dona Ines was the bedroom.

- You, climb on a chair, that little window
you'll see what happens. Did not have some what to admire and laugh
about. 

That said, Juanita left the bedroom and left it prey Dona
Ines, closing suddenly the door and throwing out the key.

- What
are you doing? - Said Dona Ines -. What folly is yours? I enclose
Why?

Juanita replied, laughing:

- To make sure you locked your neutrality.
I do not want to ally, but to witness. Shut up and watch.

Doña Inés,
quite angry, replied yet:

- Abreme. Will I regret you trust me? What
mockery is this?

- Forgive me, forgive me - Juanita said with a pleading
voice and sweet -. You are my godmother, my protector and I do not
want nor should I tease you