 We speak of the disposition of the fable and characters.

Imagine,
for a moment that Faust sees Marguerite and feel in love with her
before to rejuvenate, that for the sake of Margarita, a pair of ambition
and desire of pleasures makes the covenant; what then happens, it
happens the same way, and after the cruel death of Margarita, Faust
cries, repent, do penance, mocking Mephistopheles and goes to heaven.

So the legend would have it all in a single tragedy and not two. The work thus regularly win
and unity, but lost in grandeur. It was necessary, therefore, that the love of a woman by cute
and innocent it was, would not the main reason that wise as large as Faust devilish that way.
And it was necessary that the first tragedy and should give presuppose things and prepare the
second, leaving not a few loose ends related then each other. Do not we look now at these ends.

Isolated
the fable of the loves of Faust and Marguerite, disposition and development deserve more praise
than censure. Faust, with all the ardor and impetuosity of his youth renewed passion the simple
and beautiful girl, and want to achieve soon, without hindrance or daunt him reflect on bad
consequences. Mephistopheles, out of the jewelry takes this to Margarita, just uses more resources
to aid seduction, which could be used a list of our old servant swashbuckling
comedy.

That is how it should be. If Fausto love that inspires some artifice or prestige intervene diabolical
beauty this love, most of his poetry, and even further under, redeeming and sanctifying would vanish.
The birth of this love unfold and reach its climax in the soul Margarita innocent, are made
merely human, profoundly observed in reality and then with higher beauty expressed in the dramatic
fiction. The simplicity and naturalness language and the precision and concision of Goethe's
style, where no strike, where there redundancy, or vain pomp, nor false and overloaded lyricism,
giving everything he says Margarita seductive charm. This charm is the mystery of Margaret,
from the opening scenes, purchase such a life and stand out with such truth of the picture and
the soul of a poet who creates, who has self, and is recorded in a wide indelible memory as
if it had existed.

His mother does not appear. Goethe has the good sense not dejárnosla see, but his mother exists.
Not like in our old comedies, where there is almost never a mother. Instead of the mother puts the
poet to a very funny, and well characterized: a neighbor, and years, vulgar, fond of talking, devoted
false, and other bad qualities that make it suitable for mediate any gallant intrigue. Mephistopheles
dialogs with Martha, that's the name this woman, have great comic
force: now when Mephistopheles brings the news of Martha death of
her husband, now when the compliment and love.

Martha in the garden look and speak Faust and Marguerite. Margarita is now captive, wounded in the
heart, fired by an irresistible and inexhaustible affection.

This is followed by a beautiful soliloquy of Faust in a forest. Faust hesitates. Proud to be
loved, despite the violent burning of the senses, thinks, for the
love that infuses Margarita, that they should reject it, in order
not to lose it and cheat.

Know that you can only give a skeptical and tired soul in exchange for his soul youthful and pure.
Intervention is necessary telling the devil to get to Faust of his
hesitation.

Mephistopheles makes this that evil is already done, which devours love and the soul of Marguerite,
and not satisfied, then of having power, would be the greatest cruelty.