 

       * * * * *

The arrangement of the library came to an end: a few mornings, and all would be order. Could be
completed before, but clogged two causes: first, that Don Luis, falling into the account that
I could write to the district by another hand, neither more nor less than a minister, Pepe
employed as an amanuensis, and the second is that it talks with Peace and development gained
more time each day. Heard him, she forgot it was just more than a servant, he lost by speaking
the notion of distance between them separated.

Some of these dialogues took strange turn.

- Today I will take off for you time.

I'm boring!

... I go shopping, choose a gift for a friend who is married, and
do not know what to buy.

He has eighteen years: it was my colleague college.

- That is exactly my sister's age.

- Do not you know he had siblings.

-
Also, I have another older brother, who is a priest.

Fixed but I shall not trouble me at Leocadia buy a wedding gift.

- Why?

- The girls of my sister's condition are not easily tell who the threats.

- For what condition you is your sister?

- The life of my father put us in a very modest young lady, but higher
that of the poor people who need to earn a wage.

We belong to those last layers middle-class play about poverty, and
women of this kind are very difficult to marry.

- No reason as I
can.

- It is very simple.

They can not marry a worker, because it hinders the difference of life and tastes, and rarely
come to love a rich man. As for the men of position similar to yours ... these are denied marriage.

-
What ideas so rare!

- No, it's cold to look at things.

What home can create, or what life offers his girlfriend a man who
wins, for example, what I? Undeceive you, lady, marriage is not available
to all fortunes.

- When you say you think weird things!

"So a poor girl can not love a rich man, and vice versa?

- The first
thing is not that difficult, but the vice versa is almost impossible.

-
Explain you

- The charms of the woman does not need the help of money.

The moral qualities and beauty can do anything. Man's mission is more difficult: first, you need
to know please, then must have the means to support a family.

- What if the media leads women? Or do you not think you should marry the poor with rich woman?
For what we are seeing at every turn.

- There is something about that. Love and gold do great things together, but that rarely come
together! Furthermore, you believe me, miss, always suspect the poor man who falls for a rich.
The wealthy are beauties to us as bright for dressmakers, which when
one imagines look honestly earned.

- In other words, speaking clearly,
and without sweeten things, we can fortune be an obstacle to happiness.

-
Have you right my way of thinking.

Never ask a man to love that can enrich him. How does she believe in his sincerity? How to
acquire the certainty that she is, herself, the object of worship?

In a deity who grants anything, is given to believe in the sincerity of those who pray, but a god
of gold to pay the prayers, how would some of the love you offer?

- What subtleties and how to figure things out! Then, as you, the rich woman can not find but
rich husband. Well it is not.

Every day marry rich to poor.

- No: it happens that more or less wealthy ladies join crooks well dressed, elegant, trained and
well educated, but you will not never seen a rich girl to marry a worthy man is truly poor.

- According ... With a poor, poor, come on, you do not have a penny
to his, no.

- It's natural.

Gold inspires distrust women of good faith of man. Who can to discover the truth in the heart of
another? So you should never expose anyone to blame you of ambitious when only meant to be loved.

-
Sad truths, if they are, for the rich.

Perhaps nothing extraordinary had Pepe phrases, but she had never heard talk like that.

Another day he bought peace for his cabinet an antique mirror frame size, a real work art. Vine
leaves, stems of ivy, flowers, acanthus leaves, ribbons and scrolls enclosing the moon Bevel width:
it was necessary to restore it, and when finished the work him over, ordered to leave in the office
for his father saw him and saw it there to download the waiters Pepe.

She, with that childish glee of someone who holds a new acquisition, he said:

- Look at you my purchase. Throughout Madrid has no equal. And cheap.

Five thousand.

Pepe, in considering the mirror, made an involuntary gesture.

- What! Is it ugly?

Louis XV, pure baroque ... Or does it seem to you dear?

- No, it's
beautiful.

- So ... Come on, man, you talk!

Is it less than it cost me?

- Miss, and with what degree I can I
afford to discuss their actions or refine their tastes?

- It is not
that.

Do you think too much money?

When I have confidence You, should you have it with me.

- The setting is beautiful and worth every penny.

- It is you honest.

-
Why, Miss?

- I know you in the face, whether you are honest, man,
you are free.

We have found to you a waste, right?

- And with what right could I think so?

- Well, because I want you to tell me, I give you carte blanche to talk, what a You want to talk

He
was a darling whim, curious to know why because what she thought
produced natural bad impression on others.

- What I have said my
thought - Pepe replied shyly - is that money does not equal value
for all.

- What do you have such a delicate way of saying things!,
But five thousand reais are not for anyone more than two hundred fifty
dollars.

- They represent a poor family for two hundred and fifty
days of life.

- In that you have reason.

Should not buy certain things while there are people dying of hungry ... but it is the world. Yes,
I see: crazy as this represents the welfare of many.

- And sometimes,
the lives of some.

- So, - continued peace - that you are of those
who say that everything should be shared among everyone.

- No, miss.
There are evils that have no remedy.

It would also be shared understanding and virtue, and that is impossible.

I have not done but think that if fortune sometimes choose While those who favor, others in
virtue of being blind, bordering on cruel.

- Excuse me, you know I've made a blunder.

But not all my fault.

- Why, Miss?

- I should not have to teach you that thing.

At other times I've heard, their situation, you, that is without
offense, because it is not slander, it is not flattering.

I was wrong, I been indiscreet, right?

- Miss, not with me you no mercy! my words are not enclosed the less
blame.

- No, if half of the blame is on you

- I do not understand.

-
The thing is clear.

You have done for his wit and his conversation that I treat as a
friend, and I've taken the liberty to teach you what not to.

- Would
you say you taught jewelry to a beggar?

- No, Pepe, that hurts me.

Peace be hurt by this answer, and diverting eyes from him, was silent, but his attitude and the
expression on his face showed no anger, but bitterness.

It seemed that he had spoken so had authority to do so.

Pepe said in surprise:

- Excuse you, but the error is not mine. It took you as a cry of poverty mocked, perhaps an unconscious
envy what has been a very simple observation. How could You believe
that I dared to so much?

What am I to you, Miss? Only spoken Were you honored me pay for it with rudeness or lightness?

-
Say no more the case. What I want is to know that I have not offended you - and he extended a
friendly hand.

Both were stunned, and since then were more reserved one for another. Peace remonstrated mentally,
thinking that Pepe injuring the shame of poverty had made very ugly
action.

Pepe did not succeed to define what he felt.

Their lives began to come together as in the bed of the river tend
to gather, drawn by current grain of sand and the gold particle.

VI

When Pepe finished the job for which he was called, he stopped
going to Don Luis: something like fear him away from there.

The last morning was, taking advantage of a time left they could not watch him. They asked their
parents if they had paid, and said: - "I was not Don Luis, and see him in the Senate. "The
truth was that, like M. de Agreda who any expenditure was met Peace, Pepe was loath to the idea
that it was she who put in the handful of hard labor provided by his father. For the first time
I felt spring up in the background pride of the soul: a bad drive was a precursor of more noble
sentiment, so sometimes in the spirit of man, as in the life of nature, precedes the shadow to
the splendor the day.

One week elapsed without Pepe return home, Paz was accused of this,
and worried with that disappearance, and thought about the poor lad
if he were a friend offended: it also agreed that he had not paid,
but could not think of sending the discrete mode money.

Why a servant? He could not explain the cause, but for anything in the world had valid for
such a medium. Write her? To imagine, was not afraid to hurt that crossed his imagination,
but rather as a vague fear, shame mortified by itself.

At the end did nothing, not even dared to speak to his father, but never stopped thinking about
it and there was day, crossing the room of books, experienced disgust
and sadness.

Gradually the light grew in his soul. His ears, made to flattery, no never heard phrases the
mob, nothing made her feel those men who might want it as a jewel placed at their fingertips,
and now she put spontaneous and stubborn determination to remember simple sayings, the most
insignificant compliments of a pauper, who was terrified a cost of five thousand. What sometimes
seemed romantic to the ridiculous, others times felt like to mourn.

       * * * * *

One morning in the spring of 1872 - eight or nine months before that dinner where parents Pepe
spoke about the upcoming arrival of Tirso - were in San Pascual, de Recoletos, playing Mass
of eleven. The sun lit up the grass of the little gardens, polished by moisture and obscured
in spots by the shadows of the acacias, whose aroma perfuming the air. About the deep blue sky
stood out dark green tops of some pine trees, the branches, including purple and crimson, love the
trees, pretending Japanese background details, and Boxes waterlogged stood the pungent smell
of wet earth. Children played on the floor glazing with yellow sand-colored outfits, and fell
crying undercuts the trees, while the nurses were laughing in chorus some shameless lackey. In
the banks, each with a newspaper in his hand, had some old gentlemen, types retired military,
the elderly infirm that shaking the numbness of winter went in search of warm sunshine. In Aguaducho,
full of glasses, the towering beacon of sugar cubes and the jar with spigot, after which thick
belly hid the jar sour cherries and plate rolls, while the water carrier, giving a talk saved,
washed in the basin brass spoons. At the center of the circular walk quickly some spirited horse
drawn carriages along the line of chairs iron unemployed were a few cabs to hack down the neck
and the driver lying on spelling out the box Cowbell. On the other hand, the trams ran on rails,
blocked by cars and trucks, their drivers cursing aside of the road when he heard the whistle
foremen, and the long stone pavement, silent, step by step from top to bottom, authoritatively the couple
was bored guard public order, then called yellow take comfort that no other subversive looks
good-looking maids. In the neighboring streets they arrived just combed and flirty ladies
willing to make the groom out to meet the girls eager to play and loaded moms devotional subjects
Autumn gum. A fast walking the way from impatience, other tired with the fat of the years, looking,
according to your taste, exquisite elegance, workshop arrangements homemade oddities fad,
fashion hype, some simply calculated and all hard to please. At the door of the temple we stopped
from time to time a sedan emblazoned, and slowly got out of it a lady, the more powerful less
adorned, showing sleepiness eyes leaving the overnight, and the withered face burning tracks the
atmosphere of the holidays. A quick and short little steps, bending the body into the earth,
head down and fearful awareness of late, came attached to the facades of the the little old house shoes
and black shawl goat, and they were going ahead devout girls, as ignoring the power of youth,
calling incessantly to heaven those that can give the world. The bell was calling them with
his monotonous ring, and all came as a flock to the fold: ugly, beautiful, rich, miserable, virtuous,
lost, holy, sinful, mothers, courtesans, the household vestal or priestess of love, all, elbowing,
together, they disappeared swallowed up by the door of the church, raising to enter a portiere
heavier than a slab and quickly hinting charged atmosphere, dirty, smoky and dotted with the
yellow glow of candlelight.

Throughout the morning he was renewing that audience, mostly women, and the door women swallowing
was then thrown into the street past twenty or thirty minutes after which I saw them opening
out or unfolding umbrellas fans, because sunlight the offended, and his retina accustomed to
the darkness of the holy cave.

Some men also fell, but the greatest number of them remained in the little gardens forming
a circle, discussing the day's news had just read in the newspapers that sellers hawked around
him with the last parts of the North.

Towards the street could be heard Alcalá jingle of the buses that went to the section of the
bulls, and walking slowly along the seafront, sun-drenched, came the donkey with baskets full of pots,
listening to screaming from time to time to fine fellow who led them: the tieestóo of claaveles
doobles ... Those who came the outcry could hear fragments of conversations and noticing, perhaps,
some of which up there with him to his wife or daughter defended the ideas of the century with
words impregnated of modern wickedness.

- Items are on the rise.

- They say that the King goes to the Northern army.

- If this does
not hold, we go right to Don Carlos.

- Well, you believe that religious
fanaticism debases us to cultured Europe.

- I fear I have is who
the Republicans.

Let us go to a ninety-three awful.

- All evil passions have made their way.

- Up to form a league they have to lose!

- Every day a meeting! I even peaceful demonstrations by top of the setae.

- Calle you, man, by God!

That is not compatible with the government.

In times of Don Ramon and Don Leopoldo had mitins!

It will come.

- Well, I think that the King wins sympathy.

- What has to win, man? If a foreigner!

- You are mistaken, Sir, that means nothing. History shows that Carlos
I and Philip V were also foreigners.

A group of ladies out high-pitched and shrill voices, trying to rags, fashion, gossip and servants.

-
Girl, no one knows what to wear: this is from last year.

- Well, I feel very good.

Look, look, there goes the impeller. The other night was that they were Castellana in the white
blanket and comb to tease the Kings.

- What a mess!

Queen To me I feel sorry.

- Daughter, what do you want? As the impeller was hostess Isabella!

Well I've heard that alfonsinos move much: - And this he said looking
sideways at a gentleman who sat in an iron chair, still with an eye
to the group of ladies.

Two chicks separated from their mothers held, with dengue fever and
grimaces, a lively dialogue.

- Do not you enter?

- No: Enrique's
father says the mass very slowly.

I also want to give time to get that. Mom left and enter the house.

Is the poor boy who drinks winds.

- What's yours?

- This just in
June.

- Daughter, as you said a year ago. The race has that! ...

-
Well, I like. He is more loving!

- Girl, with those suits seem striped
zebras.

- Bye, Mom to be those of Zangolotino!

- Abur, remononísima.

The
premature, fuming at the mouth and wearing American last summer, parody
Don Juan Tenorio.

- I tell you this lady is not such a lady, and
I have said he appears.

- Come on, boy, you shut up