 The marriage had embellished giving
the full kind of the female form, making her beautiful golden spring and wonderful summer. The
same maternity, without removing or defacing cool your body, it lent a soft, protective majesty.
Then the sovereign pleasure, art, or rather, with I knew adapt the color and shape of the dress
to the tone of her flesh and changes operating in nature, gave prominence to this exquisite
and lovable.

Of course, the whole house revolved around her. As a goddess worshiped and feared, his spirit
moved all human figures sheltering towers puppets. To Dona Paula, who had actually face in the
first months of marriage, had slipped back into slavery. She did not abuse that domain. Let all your taste
fulfilled, except when directly or indirectly going against him. For example, no one knew
when to Sarrió would make, but it. The no cook food arranged without consulting her. The driver
went up to ask every day if I wanted to walk. The gardener did not move a pot without asking
the permission. In contrast no he cared little or much that her husband come out. Once saw
him ready to leave Cecilia, he said, smiling in the presence of these
and others:

- Great friends you are going by you and Cecilia.

Look, I celarme.

And the time to say, fell upon him one of those looks that expressed belief sovereign depths of
his domain. Gonzalo, even moving away, I could not break the chain again soft and submissive
to his feet, like the comet that crosses giddy spaces and to an immeasurable
distance from the sun feel the brake and he becomes docile to his
forehead.

Gonzalo paid that look to other absolute return. Cecilia had been slightly pale and smiling
to hide his embarrassment.

- Come on, gone, gone!

Do not want to see ahead - added .-- If you are hitting me, too bad you, it'll take a revenge
sounded.

The joke was not delicate, bearing in mind what had mediated between Cecilia and Gonzalez. But Venturita
woman was not repaired much to unlock.

In early December moved to Sarrió. A month after giving birth Ventura a beautiful girl, white and
blonde like her. Gonzalo was so in love with his wife, who received with joy, yes, but not
with the joy and eagerness with which men usually welcome their first child. His concern was
primarily the health of his wife, who does not supervene incident. Everything became enter and
leave the room, taking the pulse and grind to questions Don Rufo.

In view of this, Ventura could raise no objection to his daughter. She was a girl sturdy, well
made. Only when children do very greedy, freshness and beauty the mother usually fade a little.
In this event, she was filled with fear and opposed, first disguised, then in no uncertain
terms, to breastfeed the child. Gonzalo was convinced then and even found that a reasonable objection.
Instead Dona Paula was greatly angered, but only expressed his displeasure at the back of Ventura.

Cecilia was so caring, so vigilant in the care of the creature, which soon fully seized of it. Placed
in his room a bed for the mother and the cradle girls, with the pretext that it was ill Venturita
he passed a bad night. She withstood two and three sailing without any alteration. And indeed,
as the girl cried, was the first that jumped out of bed to give to
the nurse.

If it could not silence it Tomabal in arms, and walked with her for hours, to sleep.

With this, the young couple were able to sleep together again with the same freedom and neglect in
the early days of dating. When morning had the baby to his mother, Cecilia and had bathed in warm
water and brought it wrapped in clean diapers. Played with her for a while. When it came time
to enter the toilet gave it back to her sister.

Similarly, though with some diffidence, born from the desire not to offend your sister and be
contrast to her, Cecilia was involved in the care of clothing Gonzalo, and in accordance his office.
He concluded by giving the keys to the cabinets .-- "Cecilia, I get dressed." The girl ran
into the room and returned a few moments, saying: - "You got it all." Gonzalo was, in effect, folded
clothes on the bed, his shirt buttons posts, polished boots, next to the nightstand .-- "Cecilia,
I have been a bit tattered lining his coat.

"When I was putting it ere it sewn. And she was neglected Asaz renew their dresses, like her
brother extremely wears the latest fashion, no consented under any circumstances, that he wandered
one day even with a boot or tie chopped dirty. Enjoyed to see him go out with a sleek new suit.
From the balcony, raising a little shade, followed him with her eyes when she went to coffee with
a cigarette in his mouth. And then that he turned the corner, still watching, until it dissipates
in the air, last puff of smoke was released.

One day, Gonzalo, angry with himself for what he spent without substance, gave the key money
.-- "Look, you keep that key, or Ventura or art I have to manage the rooms. When you ask for money,
as outlined in this notebook and you let us know what we spent in the month. Maybe this way we will
moderate a bit. "Turned into quartermaster general, the couple soon realized some improvement in their
business. Gonzalo when he got some account, the servant said, smiling: - "Stuff you administrator."
The servant smiled too and took her to Cecilia.

This intimacy, this unique rapport in-laws in almost all acts of life, had fathered an unlimited
trust between them, mostly by Gonzalo. Nothing happened to it in the street, in coffee, not Cecilia
came to tell who was paying tireless attention. His wife, but neither cared nor wanted to hear
even talk about the chase, of their disputes, the occurrences of his friends. Everything that
was not fashion, dance, Descriptions of Madrid soirées, weddings of the largest in Spain, slightly interested.
What most excited his curiosity was as it related to the kings and the royal family. Avidly
read the story palace receptions, knew the label as well as a gentleman of the bedchamber, how
to greet kings, how he kissed their hands, when he had to speak in his presence, how he had to retire.
He knew the names and biographies of each of the members of the royal family and also the most
distinguished nobles of the court. Novels, and a Mrs. Queen stewardess who had been taking baths
in Sarrió, had suggested aspirations fantasy, a longing to live in that atmosphere brilliant.
The majesty of princes touched her, the foreclosure of submission, that she was unable to humiliate
anyone! And that gallant life of the court gave him a glare and the glow of a happy dream. When
I had been in Madrid, the quality of provincial America, had not consented to enjoy rather than
theaters, car rides down the Castellana, shops and streets. Of the court, their soirees and
rejoicing, had remained as distant as Sarrió. And But she was well convinced, and he was right,
that could shine in any part. Her beauty and alive and funny imagination was endowed, had made
it noted immediately in the highest society. Sometimes walking in with her landau husband,
had been carefully noticing her eyes and lust of the Duke of S. .. of Marquis de C. .. of towering
political figures. Once he had heard the Duchess of Medina as they cross the carriages, tell
your partner will be married this girl :--«¿ as cute? "In those three months in Madrid, had been
a poetic vision, a memory confusion of their pleasures, and some itching to imitate with the
poor means at its disposal in the town to swanky ladies of the court, whose customs he only knew by
hearsay .. Thus, For example, he left home, which was infrequently used to do in a carriage,
especially if he went to theater. The custom of the car came to wait for the conclusion of
the function Sarrió had caused some surprise and no little grumbling. Costumes with that presented
public were always fanciful, entirely different from the other ladies wearing of the population.
These generally, used to ride home with the clothes' in any fascist "as they say. Ventura operated
a revolution, seen from the morning with new clothes and appropriate at that hour. Not surprised
her again, or even withdrawal of his cabinet, without all the gadgets and ornaments typical of
the time.

Their gowns colored silk always off, their lace bonnets never seen before, her slippers velvet,
was the astonishment of the population. There were many ladies who were to visit only touched
by news of his home.

Gonzalo, seeing her engrossed in reading the journals of rooms, hearing described as if I had seen,
a dance palace, cried laughing :--«¿ you know the name of medicine that hobby of yours? ... Delusions
of grandeur. " She was angry. Like all characters mocking, deeply
wounded him ridicule.

With his sister the young man laughed a few times, others showed irritation of those extravagances
of his wife, which he described as stupid and cheesy. Cecilia tried to calm him down, blaming
a few years, the fickle nature of Ventura: - "You'll see - you said, - within a few months
not remember such nonsense. "

Cecilia was her shoulder to cry on, his confidant in all marital troubles. Never let's get out
of his mouth some useful advice, some comforting words to calm down its strong and sudden anger.
It had been so accustomed to those confidences when after a scuffle with Ventura was not his sister
at home, put the hat and ran to look for walks, to church or where it was. The long spent together
these reliefs also uninvited. Ventura did not want to leave. And Don Rufo demanded that the girl
take the outdoors, Cecilia was responsible for accompanying the mother. Gonzalo accompanied
them to both the mother with the girl before, he and Cecilia back.

In those long walks he confided all his secrets, he neatly explained their fears, their joys,
their hopes. Sometimes, listening to reason with as much insight into moral matters, I used to
cry with little gallantry :--«¡ Ventura Too bad your character has no sensible and sensible!
"

She, however, remained impenetrable to him, as for all the world. Or because he did not secrets
to tell, or too quiet temperament, the eldest of Belinchón fleeing to talk about herself with extraordinary
care. Neither their joys and their sorrows were unrecognizable. Only a very fine observer could,
by force of habit, out vaguely stirred the emotions. Gonzalo was not. In his childhood self
healthy and muscular man, had come to see her sister as a passive, reasonable and cool, admirable
advise and lead others, a higher being, if you will, but unable to feel those anger, those joys,
those foolish passions that altered the weak characters like yours. However, sometimes, in jest, had
tried to get the body their little secrets. I knew that three or four young men of the people aspiring
to her hand. To some of them had caught more than once walking the streets. On stage with the arrow
twins.

And although he noted with some disgust Gonzalo that he must have in that worship more desire
for the dowry that true love speaking it sought to flatter their suitors. She shrank from the
conversation with stubborn silence, smiling vaguely so as not to
betray his thought, until after it looked precisely to talk about
something else.

On one occasion, however, Gonzalo took the matter more seriously and persistently. A childhood
friend, engineer, spoke to Cecilia, and asked for his protection interested in their favor.
The frankness and sincerity of his speech was very pleased the boy.

- Gonzalo - he said - I'm already old and ready to get married. I did not want to do in Madrid
or Seville, where I intended, because I distrust women who do not know far back. Men should marry
at home with young people who have seen it grow to his side. Determined to marry a girl of the population,
I've noticed your sister, and I honestly tell you my thoughts. Cecilia is not pretty or ugly,
is a woman passable. I always believe that they are more calculated to wives. In the four
or five times I've spoken to her home of Saldana, I found it very nice and very reasonable,
honest and modest. Her friends all speak well of her. It is an important fact that men do not take
into account enough to marry. Because friends tend to be ruthless the one for the other, and
seek the tickling that is a blessing ... Besides, your sister have a good luck tomorrow, and
this, why should not I tell you? also other data that should be considered. I do not know why
they have to marry men for system with poor women.

The man needs created by marriage, are many: children may become too high, and everything
should look. I do not need to marry for interest. I have a pretty lucrative career. My parents
also have to leave some hacienda ... Want to ask if I have been unsympathetic in the few times
I've talked to her, and I agree that if present in your home?

Gonzalo promised to bring their influence, he hinted more or less reluctantly clear, flattering success,
boasting of the power exercised over it.

Until then all indications that did, had been addressed .-- "I think
if I do not get carried to auction the company, no one else can try
it "- he concluded by saying in a fit expansion and pride.

That night seized the moment when Cecilia came to inflame the lamp
at the office, to say it smiling:

- Do you have something to do now,
Cecilia?

... No? ... Then sit down a moment, I'll confess.

The girl looked at him with big blue eyes and soft, where he painted
the surprise.

Gonzalo forced her to sit.

- Do you have a boyfriend? - The asked sharply.

- What a question
- she said smiling face, without shame.

- Do not talk about boyfriend.

If you had and I would be aware. I just want to know if between youth award new one is interested
to have achieved more or less.

- What do you want to know that?

- Answer.

Cecilia shook his head.

- Well then I take the liberty to speak of one, who has begged me ... It This is my friend Paco
Flores, whom I know. I have been asked to recommend to you, asking while if the few times you have
spoken you had been unfriendly.

- Nasty? - Asked with surprise .--
Why?

I do not dislike anyone until it is committed any rudeness.

- After you begged me to ask if you consent to be presented at this
house.

- That's another thing - getting suddenly serious answered
.-- I can not stop it presented here, but as my consent could mean
that I have pleasure in visiting us, I'm not willing to give.

- It
is not you accept it by boyfriend - was quick to say only want .--
Gonzalo let him treat you any time, and if after you consider worthy
of your hand, is granted, and if not, deny it.

- Well, of course
denied, and without treatment - the young woman replied firmly.

-
It is too early - Gonzalo said smiling to hide his irritation that
this sudden response had occurred.

- I think in these matters the
more sincere we are, the better.

Why has bothering to visit the boy in a long time to receive the response that I can give
right now?

- Well, well, proceed slowly. If you Paco is not unpleasant, as you confess, you can not ensure
that after six or eight months or a year does not fall in love with
him.

- I am incapable of falling in love - with a bitter smile she
said that her brother did not understand.

- Love comes when least
expected - he said .-- We sententiously years and years without feeling,
and one day, poof! heart skips a beat.

Have we found our soulmate.

These words as candid as cruel, removed the few drops of gall Cecilia
kept in his chest.

With quick sentence and looking hard at one of the arms of the chair where was sitting, said:

-
Well, I'm sure my heart will not poof! any day.

- Why should ensure that, Cecilia?

Women more than men, are made for love for the enjoyment it provides, for family life. You could
say that the only destination of women on earth is marriage, because it is responsible to hold onto
it life. Its physical layout, all body organs are built for the production of this life ...

Gonzalo
advocated by his friend Paco, appealing, as it looks, even physiology. Cecilia listened in silence,
his face stern, staring into space.

The words of his brother rang in his soul as an accent of despair. Yes, it was true, unfortunately
was all true! When finished making the apology of love, was his friend Paco Flores a young
man so clear, so formal, the son of a good family, brilliant career, etc., etc.

Cecilia dryly persisted in refusing his consent to come home.

Then Gonzalo, a little irritated by the dispute, and wounded his pride for having boasted no
Paco right in front of its influence on the young, let out some harsh words: "Why seemed little
chance for her?