 Each of these matches will answer me with same signal
from the viewpoint of home. We will meet with the garden wall. Prudence and discretion. Do
not miss.

Yours until death,

ALFREDO.

"

In reading the letter could not help smiling, saying to herself: -
When you end this woman's adventures mania! - Concertose after the
boatman for dispatch night and said goodbye to her very quietly recommending.

When

he came back into the room found it to Maxi, who was finishing fix it, and his cousin Adolf,
a thirteen to fourteen years with big cheeks, short and spiky hair and eyes full of meat,
wild and shameless. For some words failed to see from the hallway knew he had brawl between the
two cousins and guessed the cause. Adolfo was browsing through the guest's luggage and Maximina
opposed it. When our young man entered, both were surprised, amid Maximina room with a broom
in hand smiling, leaning on a comfortable Adolfo staring grimly.

- Oh, what a worker is Maximina! - Miguel said approaching her without regard to any Adolfo,
who had been unfriendly.

In the light of day might appreciate its shape. It was a dark pink paler than the small nose,
fresh mouth, head and forehead well shaped, brown hair and hazel eyes, neither large nor small,
lower than high, and big meat Apretadita of ways, revealing their great strength into muscle
movements. No one could call beautiful this girl with justice, and yet humble and innocent expression
of his eyes, constant smile twitched her lips, made her highly sympathetic. Her dress clear
calico with a pink scarf that covered his chest and part of the back. On hearing the cry of Miguel,
he answered with another:

- A lot, yes!

- You bet.

So early, and already I have V. arranged the room.

- Toma, because he has sent my mother! - Adolfo said from a corner,
with a desire to mortify her cousin, but she replied quite naturally:

-
It's true, I has sent my aunt in V. left.

- And you do so prontito
what they send you like her? - Miguel said turning to the boy .--
So and you will be wise, for sure your parents send you study every
day.

Adolfo gave him a suspicious look and dropped his eyes without answering.

-
I took a spin around the village - followed Maximina addressing the
young - and then I Juanito on steam.

- The town is ugly - it .--
That answered all outsiders say ...

- And V. not say so?

- To me
is like a town than another.

- Is not gonna V. occasionally to San
Sebastian?

- Almost never.

My aunt takes me when to bring some order, but round by round.

A Once I took my father (God rest his soul) to Bilbao to spend a
few days ... If I knew V. what he wants to come back!

- What then?

-
I was tired of walking from one place to another ... the theater ...
to walk ... to shops ... I was very sore feet.

They said it was because I was not used.

- She said her aunt who
has been V. educated in a school ...

- Yes, sir, two years in a convent
Vergara ...

- And he liked to V. be there?

- Very.

I've never been as happy as ever.

- So you would willingly V. with the nuns?

- Oh, indeed!

- She wants to return and become a nun ... but lacks
mortis - said his cousin animal raw back into the conversation.

Gross output very indignant that Michael, who led the little boy a
look of contempt.

Maxi had gone slightly red.

- Do not believe V. .. Yes, I would return, but causing no harm to
anyone.

I understand that now, while girls are not old, my aunt needs me
...

- What is unusual in that V. I want? - Miguel said softly .--
That is not proof having V. a grateful heart and pious.

Maxi then blushed to the ears.

Adolfo, who certainly did not seem right that praise and wanted by all means vent his resentment,
he said, smiling stupidly

- It's a Beaton! Spend their lives eating the saints.

- Well now was not eating the saints but sweeping - said Michel.

-
It has been in the church communicant Thursday and Sunday and bring
a rope attached to the body.

Want V. see?

And the great barbarian was entitled to his cousin, no doubt intending
to open the dress.

- Be still, Adolfo! - Said it, scared, nervous.

But Adolfo ignored and came to lay hands on it.

Then the girl, with a force surprised to Miguel, he refused to shake
making.

Adolfo resumed the grossly laughing.

- Adolfo, I call my aunt! - Maxi shouted, red as a cherry and saltándosele
tears and again he turned briskly.

- You do not do, boy - Miguel
said trying to intervene.

But Adolfo, irritated by the superior muscle of his cousin, had grabbed
her and struggled to open her dress, but without result.

Miguel wrested by force and I stood at the door of the room saying:

- It could be your parents give you a little better education!

When he returned to Maxi, found her sobbing, covering her face with
her hands.

- Come, Maxi, serénese V. ... it already happened.

But Adolfo, from the hallway, began yelling:

- Let him depart, to leave the hypocrite ... I will not leave here until we stoke a few cones.

The
voices and noise was just made, rose Dona Rosalia asking angrily:

-
But what is this?

What happens here?

- No, ma'am - Miguel answered, - that boy wanted to open up the Maxi
dress for teach a rope says it brings.

- No, mother - Adolf shouted,
- is that she hit me because I called Beaton.

- Shut up, vicious
- the mother said angrily, while applying a superb slap that flushed
cheek.

Adolfo began to cry out to the true God. Then Dona Rosalia certainly be sorry hurt your child,
Maxi stirred furious.

- Good hipocritilla you too!

Do comedy and whine until they get I hit him ...

To that injustice, the poor girl was as stunned for a moment, in his
face broken you guessed the efforts he made to not break to mourn
aloud.

She let out a sob drowned, put his hand on his heart and ran from the room.

- Come, to shut himself into his room, as always - Dona Rosalia said, smiling wryly.

However, as became clear that Michael did not approve of his conduct and his own conscience either,
endeavored to show that Adolfo was a stunning boy, but an excellent
background, that Maxi was very sensitive, who could not take a joke
and treat it as his cousin was ... a child.

Finally, there went with him stroking and promising many things to to calm down. Miguel was sadly
impressed by this scene.

He spent the day wandering from one side to another, read a little, wrote another while, at last
night came. After they had eaten and been half an hour to locuacísima hostess, was ready to go
a romantic date he had given the General's. While riding down the street in search of stone
staircase where Ursula had been waiting, I could not help laughing at the love Lucia professed
that mystery.

After all, he may be right, he concluded by say; if not for these
peppercorns thrown on our relationships, the truth is that would become
very annoying.

Ursula found sitting on the steps dozing.

Feeling its steps stood up strongly.

- Is V., sir?

- I am: do you have there the boat?

- I have it where you always tied to suspect not. I'll get away.

The boatman came down to the shore and she was touching the water to disappear entirely silhouette of
sight of our young. Few minutes it took to hear the splash of oars and receive the bulk of the boat.
So I ran aground, was quick to jump on it, but before that it put an Ursula again afloat and
away from the shore, took care to remove a match and keep it on until it ended. At the same
time came another light yonder on the dark mass of trees on the opposite shore. The boatman started
to handle the oars trying not to make noise. The village of Pasajes
rested.

In vessels habíanse anchored in the bay off and the stove, and the
crew carelessly handed sleep.

The night was overcast and mild. Although accustomed to the nocturnal
rendezvous and secret of now, original, got interested in our young.

Not a little contributed to this also did not see her lover was already about a month. The
separation was cooled a bit the memory of their fortunes, which had
recently lost it quite attractive.

On reaching the middle of the bay, Ursula said:

- We are half way, sir.

Miguel got up, lit another match and kept him alive as long as it
lasted.

- Do you know V., sir - I said Ursula, - if there are any
out there sailing, and we observed no know what to think of us?

-
Will think that we are engaged, and what is wrong with this?

- To
V. None.

To me, good I would!

At that moment another light came on land, but no longer on the trees,
but lower.

- V. Look, look at V. the fluorescent! - Malicious accent
exclaimed.

- Row, row, to see if we came early to the bank - said
Miguel.

A clarion call was heard in the silence of the night, clear, loud,
from the width.

- What is that? - The young man asked, amazed.

-
I do not know - said the boatman with no less awe.

Another answer to the first touch from the opposite shore.

Voices were heard after the control and noise race-crossing.

- Boga,
boga quickly, to see what the hell does that bustle - Miguel said.

Ursula obeyed, and did not take many minutes to get close to land. But the jump in it our youth,
a group of six or seven soldiers advanced toward him, putting his
mouth of guns on the chest.

- Taking prisoners around the world.

Miguel was shocked.

- But why ...

- Let's see - said the sergeant, without answering - one of you to register the boat, and you
two getting down there among the trees and pilladme accomplices.

- What is it, gentlemen? - Miguel asked, trying to calm and soothe the police (Because those
soldiers were police).

- I know V. in jail - said the sergeant.

I knew before, fortunately. The police, seeing those mysterious signs made from answered the
bay and on land, they figured it was a cache of contraband, and promoted all the commotion. Miguel
made great efforts to convince them not had such a thing, he was taking a walk for pleasure and
nothing else. After half an hour discussion, the sergeant had to
give evidence because there was no reason to confirm their suspicions.

The young man told him that Madrid had arrived the previous day in the steam Carmen, who was there,
and whose captain could ask if it was true what they say, that was staying at the house of D. Valentín
Vázquez, etc., Etc. After much hesitation, Sergeant allowed to go home, albeit accompanied
by a policeman to find out whether indeed staying at the inn he said.

XIII

Irritated by this ridiculous and dangerous adventure, appeared the next day at home overall,
without taking any precaution, and said he would not hear of appointments mysterious. Lucia,
who the previous night he had waited in vain, extremely mourned of his accident, could not
help but laugh at hearing him tell. Since then they were all the days when it pleased him
that Miguel visit the hotel's D. Paul Bembo.

The time left him free visits aprovechábalo for trips to San Sebastian work for the newspaper or
go fishing with their host. This D. Valentine, former captain of The Fast, brig round that
made the career of Havana, was a pretty original. Would at most fifty years, was tall and lean, of
a hardy, if not rheumatism were long periods that troubled him much, spent long hair and beard, and
gray, in the form of pan. In his life he had seen Miguel, or see thought, man quieter, was a portion
of days without hear the metal of the voice when he stumbled on the
street or at home, the ocean was taking his hat and growled something
to be "Good morning" or "good afternoon" judging by hypothesis.

At home never heard him ask or order anything, like a shadow when entering or leaving or sitting
at the table to eat. With Maximina his wife and, more was understood through gestures than words,
and their needs were not very complicated, there could scarcely have you ever met. If not rheumatism
was bedridden, was leaving, nearly every day, fishing in a boat of your property: hours and
hours spent his ex-captain anchored near the shore, still, the gear in hand, leaving roasted by
the sun and whipping through the air. A force of no more than relations with fish was identified by
its nature cold and silent grave, was a veritable dervish the sea, whose only desire seemed
to be to penetrate deeper into this element and melt and after it dissolved as a salt lick. Moreover,
in the village was considered as a good neighbor and very smart sailor.

This man, who crossed the world in sneakers, was the constant companion Miguel their boat trips.
Course, spoke little, almost nothing, but our young man had believed to understand gestures,
grunts, rather than words, it was nice to D. Valentine which could be attributed to the fans
that showed fishing. Especially since some day which engaged (pure coincidence) and got a great
robaliza put it on board, and former captain saved him, though tacit high regard. Furthermore, also
guessed that the ex-captain professed affection for his niece Maximina
vivid, well-paid by the latter: both understood admirably, with just
looking, and all tests were taxed affection could.

I say could, because Dona Rosalia was aware of this love and showed
no very determined to encourage trends.

For all that Michael was shaking his friendship with him. Maximina every day showing his eyes more sympathetic
and interesting. Candid and sincere people have the advantage of not repeated. So, without suspecting
that she could at the same time he opened his soul to look at it
sank, was captivating of her young guest, in terms the latter came
to annoy everyone in the house if they were not Maximina and uncle.

He spoke with former spend time taking advantage of the moments in which she had set up his room.

-
Is V. busy, D. Miguel?

- I'm going to leave the task.

And as he left the room and he began to asearlo Maximina, chatting
happily.

Miguel's teasing the convent she had defended then denying intention of closing in it. However,
through these negative transpired that perhaps over time came to do so. One day he said getting serious:

-
I am not a supporter of the monasteries. The most beautiful virtues of the Christian religion,
which are charity and sacrifice for others, can not be done but in the midst of society. What are
all a girl comes to acquire if they are to be enclosed four walls, if the world has not ever
take advantage of them? The only nuns who I respect and admire with all my heart are the sisters
of charity.

Maxi looked surprised and said nothing. The whole day was a bit pensive.

Used to gather daily at the time of dusk in front of some young tobacconist
but not in such numbers as Sunday.

The nights were quiet and warm, and conversation sometimes dragged
on until half past nine or ten.

Miguel became used to assist her, leaving the General's visits to
other times.

Often would sit next to Maxi and was pleased to give him the ear. If we asked if they believed
what I was saying, we would be almost impossible to answer.

All we can say is that not woo for fun, even just for fun: it is
possible that by dint of being sympathetic, the finding was beautiful.

But Maximina was so convinced otherwise, rejecting the blandishments of young with so much harder the
more pleasant it would be his company. One night I said supplicating accent:

- By God, do not tell me V. I'm pretty.

- Why?

- Because I figure that is V. making fun of me and makes me very sad ...

- Although V. was not, to me it seems, and this would be sufficient,
but since V. angry, the only nice call.

- Nor.

    Do not call me V. nothing.

The
      other girls were
      there, all older than Maxi, I threw penetrating glances and began
to murmur about the persistence with which the young stranger sitting
next to former.

The games that were killed in that meeting time outdoors, were little varied: hide an object
so that one might find, while others sang, sometimes smooth and other strong, as he walked
away and approached him, guess who was the person whose portrait drawing of speech were these:
to run the rope finial .... This game was the top finial pleased to Michael, for he retained a
lifelong memory lively and enjoyable.

Was to introduce a ring with a rope and hold on to it all pundits forming a circle, one is left
in the half, and the other ran the ring slyly shouting

The finial is in the hand. Follow the rosette. Follow the rosette.

The Coryphaeus made a sign: the choir was silent and still, if he guessed who had the ring,
it passed the center of the circle, and one took his place, otherwise
go again finial his career.

Our youth enjoyed this game, because he was carrying children, and perhaps also to shake hands
because he felt the contact of the status quo. Many times laughed thinking: If the Earl of Rivers
saw me playing the finial!

The next Sunday we danced, as the day he came into Maxi had promised on the floor when she
danced. The girl, relying on this promise, he decided to do this, but Guest did not keep your word,
and sat in front of the tobacconist as simple viewer. Maximina poor, disappointed, sad eyes looked
at him, leaving guess what boring without him was there.

- Listen, Lolita - said the young man calling a small Dona Rosalia - go tell Maximina that as
dark a little longer dance.

Maximina, upon receiving the news was happy.

And indeed, when the shadows of the night invaded the square, safe
and not to draw attention to the stranger ventured to take part in
the dance.

Not everything was loose and airy as would be hoped, therefore had
to hear some suppressed laughter, but took them with patience, and
within minutes and he paid no attention to anyone ... Maximina anyone
else, he said quietly: - "Lift V. more arms .»--« V. Do not jump so
much.

"Councils all very timely, that the young man was following to the
letter. The girl was happy, satisfied: Miguel her to dance more often
than the others, then tried to stand by your side to have it hand
in hand, which pleased to gently squeeze and caress. After dancing
facing each other, young people were in the habit of embracing a moment
at the end. Miguel, using one of these hugs, and for the darkness,
grabbed Maximina braid that hung in the back with a silk bow on top,
and his lips.

- What does V.? - Said the girl turned quickly.

-
Kissing the braid of her hair.

- Why does V. that? - asked in surprise.

-
Because I like