 The day had come above
and in the town had no more knowledge than the doctor ***, resident there so only from a few
years earlier. At the point of leaving the village we came another hunter on a slope planted
with vines that limits the horizon of Villanueva in the east. Walking rather slowly as he walks,
accompanied by two beautiful dogs shows, one Epagneul wool fawn and one black hair braque traveled
around the vineyard of his master. Ordinarily - as I learned then - were the only fellow who admitted
when expeditions carried out almost daily, in which the game was merely a pretext for enjoy
other pleasures: the outdoor living and especially to meet the need of being alone.

- Behold the Lord Sunday that game - said the doctor, recognizing
the distance to its neighbor.

Soon a gunshot rang out and the doctor told me:

- Mr. Domingo has
pulled.

The hunter that Villanueva described in similar developments around
us, given by the wind blowing from the east and the wants, quite secure
and known hunting.

Throughout the day we had him in sight, and though separated by several hundred meters, we
could follow the same path that he could follow him as ours. Field was flat, calm environment,
and the noise reached so far in this season year, even after having lost sight, we kept hearing
each firing of shotgun and even the echo of your voice when setting their dogs or name. But outside
of discretion or because, as demonstrated by a statement from the doctor, was giving little
fan your company, that fellow who called Mr. Domingo not approached us to very Late in the afternoon,
and the cordial friendship that then we should have joined that day
basis in fact the commonest.

Between us only half a shotgun when my dog ??moved a partridge.

He was my left and the piece flew toward him.

- There you go, sir - I cried.

In the brief time it took to throw the gun at his face I could see that we looked at assess
whether the doctor and I were close enough to shoot, and only after
convincing piece was lost if he did not throw aimed and fired.

The bird fell as if struck and bounced with a thud on the dry earth of the vineyard.

It was a magnificent male partridge, brightly colored and hard as red beak and coral legs, armed with
spurs like a cock, almost as wide as the breast of a chicken priming.

-
Knight - Mr. Domingo said advancing towards us - excuse for having
lying on the sample of your dog.

But I thought you have to replace not to lose a beautiful piece, rare in this area. Rightfully.
I would not, therefore, offers: it back.

Added some phrases to force me and I accepted the gift of Mr. Domingo as debt willing to pay
for gallantry.

He was still young man in appearance, although he had already served forty years, enough high,
dark complexion, physiognomy pleasant, serious word and walk slowly,
with some sloppiness, and around certain severity elegant appearance.

She wore her blouse and wore leggings style peasant hunters. Its rich shotgun, only to reveal to people
accommodated. The two wide collars and dog had them each a sheet of silver with a monogram. Shook the
doctor's hand politely and left us almost immediately to go, he said, to meet with harvesters
that afternoon it finished the task of collection.

It was early October. The harvest was near an end, nothing was already in the field - again
in part to its silence - more than two or three groups of pickers
- who called brigades in the country - and a mast with a party flag,
planted in the vineyard which reflected itself in the past clusters,
announcing, in effect, that the brigade of Mr. Domingo was about merrily
eat the goose, that is, to carry out the closing luncheon and farewell,
in which, for celebrate the end of the tasks, is a traditional custom
amongst other things contained in roast goose first.

It was late afternoon. Only a few minutes left before the sun reached the horizon; launched its
splendor, drawing lines and shadow light dilated on the plain sad dotted with vineyards and
wetlands, with no trees, just rolling, pushing away in distance by a distance over the sea. One
or two people white, with its churches roof and steeples Saxons stood out minor bumps in the
ground and some farms, small, isolated, surrounded by stunted groves and huge stacks of hay
encouraged just one monotonous landscape which would have seemed quaint complete destitution without
the unique beauty that lent the weather, time and season. Only the Villanueva opposite and in
a fold of the plain had some form numerous trees to how small park around a dwelling of a certain appearance.
The converted flamenco style, tall, narrow windows dotted with rare irregular and lined Acute
towers with slate roof. Around the house were grouped other modern construction, local farmhouse
and various farm-all very modest. A faint bluish cloud of fog that stretched back through the
tops of trees indicated that there were exceptionally low background at the level of something
akin to a stream water, a long avenue, sort of swampy meadow surrounded by willows stretched from
the house to the sea.

- That house - told me the doctor stating that island of green amid the barren nakedness of the vineyards
- is Trembles Castle, home of Mr. Domingo.

Meanwhile, Mr. Domingo was to meet with harvesters and walk away slowly, unloaded shotgun,
followed by the dog tired, but no sooner had taken some steps the
path that led to their vineyards, we witnessed a game that I loved.

Two children whose voices came to us and a young woman which only saw the dress of light material and
a red mantle advanced towards the hunter. The children were funny signs revealing their joy, running
as fast as its little legs permitting: the mother was moving more slowly and with a shaking hand
corner of her purple mantle. We saw Mr. Domingo to take in his arms on the two children. He encouraged
group of bright colors stood there a moment in the green trail, standing in the middle the quiet
countryside illuminated by the evening fire, and wrapped the entire placidity the day just.
Then the family started for Trembles and posthumous setting sun was
escorted to his home to happy marriage.

I told the doctor that Mr. Domingo de Bray - whom everyone called Mr. Domingo to dry under a
friendly practice adopted by the familiarity of the country - was a Knight, mayor of the commune,
rather than by his personal influence - for not exercising and from a few years - estimated by
the former was linked to its name: it was decided protector of the
unfortunate, much loved and well regarded around the world, although
he had no administered more similarities with the blouse when wearing.

-
It's a nice man - said the doctor, - a bit sullen, excellent, simple
and discreet, prodigal services and very few words.

All I can tell you is that I know so many Those responsible for it as people in the community.

The night following that day of camp was so beautiful and so wonderfully
clear that not appear if we were still in summer.

I remember especially because I keep it certain impressions of those that are set at all sensitive
points in memory However lack of gravity the facts that motivate them. The moon was a brilliant
moon and the chalky path of Villanueva and the white houses were lit as if it were full noon,
with hints of sweeter but with equal precision. The main street that crosses the line village
was deserted. As they passed the gates just heard the buzz of conversation neighbors who were
dining with family and behind closed windows. Away in distance, where the residents did not
sleep, and a narrow beam of light filtered through the locks or out of the chocks and flickered like a red
line through the cold whiteness of the night. Only wineries were open for ventilation, and an end to
the other village smell to crushed grapes, warm exhalation of mixed fermented wine to smell of
stables and houses. In the field no longer perceive any noise other than the cry of the rooster
to sleep and woke up singing the first night by announcing that it would be wet. Thrush - Birds
in passing that migrated from north to south - through the air above the village and called constantly
as night commuters. Between eight and nine a kind of joyful sound vibrated at the bottom of the
plain bark at a time making all dogs from neighboring farms: was sour and are cadenced of the bagpipes
playing a quadrille.

- You dance at Mr. Domingo - the doctor told me .-- Good opportunity for a visit, if you would think,
since he owes you thanks.

When dancing to the sound of biniou [A] home of an owner who makes the vintage, you must know that
the party has almost public.

[A: A sort of bagpipe]

Trembles take the path through the vineyards,
gently moved by the influence magnificent that night.

The doctor, who felt the way that emotion, he began to look the rare
stars that live moonlight was not enough to eclipse and lost astronomical
treatises, the only dream that such a spirit could afford.

The dance was organized in front of the farm gate on a Mall in form in was surrounded by tall
trees and grassy wet as if rain. The moon lit the makeshift dance
so well that no other lights were needed.

There was nothing dancers who employed laborers in the harvest and one or two local young
people to who had caught the sound of the bagpipes. I would not know that if the musician
who played biniou doeth with art, but at least played with such vigor, pulled the instrument
sounds so widely extended, so penetrating and tearing the air with such acrimony sound and
becalmed at night, not because I was amazed that we had reached such a noise from so far away:
within half mile radius to be heard, and the girls were flat, undoubtedly contradanzas dream in their
beds. Young people had removed their tops; the girls had changed their remangádose caps and aprons,
all retained positions clogs - the bots that they say - no doubt to afford more poise and better
mark beat of the leaps of pantomime called bourrée crude. Meanwhile, in the yard passed and repassed
the farm servants, with a light hand, from kitchen to dining room and when the music stopped playing
for breath, heard the rustle of press squeezed the grapes.

We found Mr. Domingo next to the winery, in this strange lab full of wheels movement. Two or
three scattered lamps illuminated the extensive local as much as needed nothing but the wide
space occupied by bulky machines. At the time was cutting the treuillée: that is, the grapes
are piled up and squeezed and stretched as can be drawn from it by
further pressure machine that still contained the juice.

The wort weak jet noise source was driven with little in stone vessels, and a long leather
tube, like a fire hose, I took the battery and led him to the bottom Winery where the sweet taste
of crushed grapes became wine smell in whose proximity was very hot. All new wine dripping:
the walls sweated harvest moisture, fumes were heavy fog around lights. Mr. Domingo was among
the laborers engaged in the task of pressing and holding a lamp lit Hand in whose light we find
him in that gloom. Kept his hunting dress no one would have distinguished the workers if they
do not call him "sir Nostromo."

- Do not apologize you - he told the doctor that called excuse for the time and the time chosen for
our visit - because otherwise I would have every reason to apologize to my time.

And I think well - so ease and finesse so we did the honors of the press, - which had no more
hassle than the difficulty of procuring a comfortable seat on that site.

I say nothing of our conversation - the first I had with a man with
whom I have spoken Only much later .-- I remember having discussed
harvest, harvest, hunting and other matters in the field, the name
of Paris suddenly emerged as inevitable antithesis All and all the
rustic simplicities of life.

- Ah, those were good times! - Said
the doctor, in whom the name of Paris awoke always a shock.

- Still
longing! - Said Mr. Domingo.

And he said this phrase with a particular emphasis - more expressive than words, whose real meaning
he wanted to penetrate.

We left when the harvesters went to dinner.

It was late and we just return to Villanueva. Mr. Domingo He led us down an avenue that surrounded
the garden, whose boundaries are confused vaguely trees in the park,
and then by a broad terrace covering the whole front of the house.

Passing a lighted room, whose window was open the warm atmosphere
of the night, I saw the young wife sat embroidering about two twin
beds.

We parted at the gate. The full moon lit up the courtyard where movement did not reach the farm. The
dogs were tired after a day of hunting with chain around his neck,
slept in front of their respective niches, lying full length on sand.

In groups of lilacs removíanse the birds as if the splendid clarity I do believe the night was light.
Nothing was heard of the dance interrupted by dinner Trembles in the house and surroundings,
all rested and in the greatest silence, and this relieved absolute absence of noise accompanying
print at biniou.

A few days later, upon returning home found two cards from Mr. Bray, who had come to visit,
and the next we received an invitation on behalf of Madame de Bray, but written by her husband,
it was a family meal offered to the neighbors, which is begging to be accepted graciously.

This new interview - the first is true, which gave me entry into the castle of Trembles - not
offered nothing memorable, and she would not talk, unless it fulfills me say two words with
respect to the family of Mr. Domingo.

It consisted of three people whose silhouettes fugitive had already seen from afar in the middle
of the vineyards: a brunette girl called Mercy, a child blond, thin, growing too fast and already
promised to bring the feudal middle name and peasant Juan de Bray, with more distinction than
force.

As the mother was a wife and mother in the highest sense of the two words: no midwife, no young girl, a
few years, but with maturity and dignity that optimally supported well understood in the sense
its dual role, beautiful eyes in a face uncertain; lots of sweetness in his expression mixed with
some grim, perhaps due to the constant isolation, size and gentle ways elegant.

That year, our relations were not far away: one or two hunting parties to which I invited Mr de
Bray, received and returned a few visits they made me a better understanding the ways of the castle,
but I opened the avenues discreet friendship. Come November, left, then, Villanueva without having
penetrated the intimacy of the "happy marriage" so we decided to designate the doctor and
me to the happy Castilian Trembles.

II

The absence causes unique effects. I checked for that first year restraining Mr. Bray broke
me without the slightest reason to live seems to evoke a remembrance other.

The absence unites and disengaged, both on and away, remembering and
forgetting it, relaxes certain very strong links, sometimes stretched
to the breaking: there is indestructible recognized partnerships in
which causes irreparable damage: indifference accumulates promises
worlds of eternal remembrance.

And at the same time, an imperceptible germ, a link unnoticed a "good-bye, sir," I should not
have any scope up with a trifle, knitting I do not know how, one of those frames so vigorous about
which two male friendships can survive very well throughout the rest
of your life, because such bonds are everlasting life.

The chains formed in this way, unbeknownst to us, with the pure substance and more lively
of our feelings, that mysterious are working as an intangible ray of light going from one to another
without being disturbed or diverted the distance or time: the fortified time and distance can
extend them indefinitely without breaking. The nostalgia is not in such cases the movement a little
rude of those invisible threads knotted in the depths of the heart and soul, which makes them suffer
extreme stress. Passes year: the separation was without saying "au revoir": An unexpected reunion:
and friendship during that time has made us such progress that all barriers have fallen, all precautions
have disappeared. This long interval of twelve months, much living space and neglect, has not
had a single day useless: and the twelve months of silence have identified a need mutual confidence
with the right to rely even more surprising.

A year ago he had gone right for the first time when I came back to him Villanueva attracted a
doctor's letter, in which I said: "In the neighborhood are talking about you and fall is superb,
you come from. "I arrived without making me wait, and when a night of harvest, after warm a day
of glorious sunshine, amid the same old sounds, walked through, without warning, Trembles thresholds,
saw the union of which I spoke was formed and the ingenious absence had operated without us and
for us.

I was a returning guest expected, which should return, and had an old custom family home. Did
not I find my time fully to my satisfaction? That intimacy just starting, was old or new?
I could not say so, so the intuition I had done things to live long among them: both of them
suspected had resembled the usual.

Soon I met the servants: the two dogs did not bark when she arrived
at court: the small Clemencia, and John got used to me and certainly
was not the last experience the pleasing effect of the inevitable
return and statement of the facts that are repeated.

Later I was called by my name and without removing at all precede the formula the word sir, but
too often forgotten. It happened after the "Lord de Bray "- I usually say Mr de Bray - disagreed
with the tone of our conversations, and every one of us noticed it
as a note tune that hurts the ear.

Nothing really seemed to have changed in Trembles, or places or ourselves, and we appearance
- so it was so identical to before, things, time, station and even small incidents of life - day by
day to celebrate the anniversary of a friendship that had no data.

The harvest was done and ended like the previous years, with the same parties, same dances
to the beat of the same cleat operated by the same musician. Then the bagpipes left by the wayside,
deserted vineyards, wineries closed, the house returned to his quiet routine. For a month
arms rested and vegetable fields were covered: it was the month of rest species rural vacation that
lasts from October to November - after the last collection to planting - which summarizes the
good days, which brings, as a weakening of the season, heat late precursors of the first cold.
Finally, one morning came the plows, but nothing less like the vintage
sound of the sad and silent monologue of farmer driving work oxen
and the eternal gesture of the sower spreading the grain on the ground
plowed.

Trembles was a beautiful property, which Sunday drew much of his fortune and that made him rich.
The exploited by himself with help from his wife, who - according to Bray claimed - had all
the spirit of the numbers and management that he was missing. As auxiliary secondary - much
less importance and action almost like her in the complicated mechanism of a farm - had an old server,
over the range of the servants, that was acting as steward and steward. The man - whose name
will appear more later in this story - it was called Andrew, and as a native son and almost child the
house was about their love and tenderness so Privanza. When he or him spoke said "Mr. Nostromo
', and you tuteaba Bray habit acquired in childhood perpetuating
a tradition of moving his household in the relations of young employer
and the old Andrew, the main character in Trembles after the owners
of the house.

The remaining staff - rather large - was delivered in multiple units of the castle and farm.

Many times it seemed empty, except for the corral, where a crowd stirring constantly chickens,
the large garden, where farm girls collected the grass, and terrace exposed at noon in which
Madame de Bray and his sons were in the shadow of vines, becoming less compact by the rapid
fall of dry branches.