 Not the slightest contraction accused the pain the
bite.

The gathering broke up at noon, as usual. Fernanda felt great comfort in breathing cold, damp
air of the night.

Was craving to be alone with his thoughts and be fully aware of what had just learned.

It had rained a lot. The streets, paved with thick stone, sparkled in the light of lamps. When
leaving the house took some down the street, others, including Fernanda
upward toward the square.

Few steps were taken when they heard the loud trotting horses at
that moment that bent the corner and down towards them.

- There is
the Baron and his servant - said Manuel Antonio.

It was time, indeed, that the eccentric baron Oscos went for his usual walk through the streets
of Lancia. The unpaved his famous prancing horse, raising such a crash, even if the horse of
his servant, much more patient, it appeared that crossing the city a squadron. When crossing the circles,
Manuel Antonio, with the impudence to characterized him, he shouted: "Good evening, Baron." But he
turned to face them fearful, stared at them with his fierce eyes
and moved on without answering.

The queen, running, said:

- Va drunk, as usual!

Everyone nodded laughing.

But deep felt all, some more than others, the same thrill to see that sinister figure. Fernanda,
for women and special status of his soul, visibly flinch, after spending continued even through
the eyes of fear of two riders until they were lost in the shadows.

When you get into bed, his heart tightened, wanted to analyze the
emotion that dominated; wanted to go back to the cause.

He felt ashamed of it.

His pride made him cry with rage and loud

- Me I care about these
pranks?

What I have to do with him or her?

But I just felt utter such words heated cheeks with tears. The Heiress Estrada, Rosa quickly turned
and buried her face covered with blushes, in pillows.

VII

The increase of the quota.

The terrible difficulties should arise Emilita for marriage because of the anti-war views of his
father, he bashed her with more ease than could be expected. History does not speak (although
better reason to have that many events) that day Nunez was solemn
in uniform to ask D. Christopher the hand of his daughter, that embrace
memorable it received him warmly against his chest shaking civilian,
that incredible fusion of two heterogeneous elements created to repel,
and thanks to the love a sweet and naughty angel interpenetrate and
understood.

If by chance this Page Private object of attention was a historian, would have no choice but to affirm
the very great importance of such agreement, which until then had considered unlikely, and at the
same time to present fairly the back, discovering how future generations So the distinguished
patrician D. Christopher Matthew was the victim of social injustice and persecution of their fellow
citizens.

You know, everyone in Lancia authorized to give thought to this respectable
old song and a former official on the marriage of his daughter.

Sometimes directly, sometimes indirectly, always played such an extent that alluded to the opinions
against the development of ground forces supported by him until then. The couple gave to be
called "the increased the quota, "and some carried their impudence to give such a name in
front of his future son. It is easy to conceive how much saliva would have had to swallow
before losing, as he, an annoying and misunderstood shame.

But despite all the rants and complaints of the neighbors, reflecting, in Matthew felt, rather than
its playful nature, envy that burned most of the hearts, "the increased quota" was making its
way. The deadline to do it was the month of August. When the time came he had acquired such importance
that, as usually in small towns, barely talked about anything else. Retired relationships and
four daughters were numerous, and they all aspired to be invited on the day of wedding. Moreover,
the same aspiration in his heart some decent and honorable Pontevedra
battalion officers friends of the future.

Not being able to gather so many people Poetic Home for the Elderly, was thought to hold the
wedding in the country. The purpose home more Farm was its proximity
to the population. D. Cristobal asked for the count, with who had
extreme confidence, like his daughters, and he hastened to put to
provision.

In the Church of San Rafael was consummated early in the
morning that fortunate partnership, the sure pledge peace between
the civilian and military