 Bad will, I repeat. As as I'm
concerned, your released would not hurt me none, bounce off the chain mail me high position
of my titles of nobility and my valimiento here and in court. For this next I'm immune. But
you, to take the way you say, (I speak as a companion and friend) not get anything but shock
a little and give your father saloon, whose complaint I leaned formal written for the procedure
... arbitrary charges me. Your father, your good and honest father, came to my court and established
complaint in every way against this girl, by seducing a minor, son of a wealthy family and decent,
with her charms and chicanery. In the discussion we had, he lamented, almost with tears in
his eyes, that were made a lost player, womanizer, who neither study nor could meet you in April
as he and your mother waiting for you to take the administration of the property next year,
ie after marrying the beautiful and virtuous young lady Alquízar, as were committed all for
the frivolous girl, whose love affairs disgrace undoubtedly a young man Count must be before
long.

- "So this is the epitome of the story my father told you? Listen, or contemplated now the reverse
of the medal. There is no such seduction, deception or pumpkins in this business. The girl
is very pretty and I idolized. Why did not correspond to his love? But it Daddy little girl has since
followed the steps, holding, dressing, shoes, celándola, dicking, caring for more and better
than it ever has maintained, clothing, shoe care rounds and none of their daughters. Why?
You wonder what purpose. Only God and he knows it. I do not think bad yet, but just the fact
kidnap when my grandmother just died, the only person who could oppose serious obstacle to achieving
of twisted desires, I suspect that my father does not harbor good intentions ... I relieved and
pleased, however, that whatever the shower of gold that he may pour the her feet will not
get more than what it has achieved so far: bitter hatred. But you, my friend, me good away from
me and deliveries tied hand and foot in power of my father. Will I have to forgive me this bad game?
Never.

- You're unfair, very unfair to your father and me. With him because I did not accede to their
entreaties, but when I'm fully convinced that they were righteous and holy intentions for you,
the family and the same Valdés. Me are unfair, because seeing your father was resolved cut in any
way, no matter the cost, your clandestine relationship with the girl, I decided to lock her in the
Collected for a short time, say, until you get Baccalaureate and marry as God intended and
as appropriate to your class and the wealth of your family. What then, if you think you will
return ... the first love.

Leonardo was silent and thoughtful, and then said feebly: - Bye, Fernando!

This stopped him by the arm and said: - Thou shalt not go that way,
as if we had fought.

Come to my stage: greet my wife and hear my side of the second act
of the opera.

     To alleviate there is some pain balm comparable to good music.

         

CHAPTER VII

The biggest monster of jealousy.

CALDERON

- What are you up you mess with a little boy from the suburbs?, Asked
Rosa to husband still in bed .-- Di, answers, he added codeándole
behind him, because he thought that is to Swedish or asleep.

- I
do not bring me and took me mess with anyone, Rosa, said Don Candido
in his sleep.

- Your own, you do.

I have said, I know for a fact.

- Who told you that story?

- No story is true. You have taken from his home to a girl a few days ago ... The author is not
the case.

- What is Rosa. Some influence in you mightily.

- Then we will clarify that point.

No I mean that you're back at it again ...

- Do you see what I say? Since you have been prepared against me. Your son ...

- Well, now check it killed my son.

- Your son, I say, "continued Don Candido without getting upset, I
was about to commit the greatest of escapades he has committed so far.

I interposed, because at last I'm his father, and I avoided the commission
... You do not want to knock on it, what other recourse I can only
touch her?

Lo, in short, the amount of my old ways.

- I did not stay to hear! "So to prevent the child committing a skull, is the father and gives
a scandal?

- In this case there has been no scandal.

- What! Have you had hidden the thing? Too bad.

See what interest do you have in it.

- No one, in my belief, that of preventing the commission of a real shame for a person that touches
us as closely as is our son.

- What shame? You use some bad words ...

- Time was that Leonardo is chasing a black girl ...

- And how do you know?

- I know for the same reason that you ignore.

- Nothing I say that.

Leonardite is natural, young and handsome, chase girls, as you say. What does not seem natural
to you, old and ugly, you're so aware of the Boy womanly pursuits. Are you envious? Do you want
him to get a monk? Why what's plots?

- Because I'm responsible for their conduct before God and the world.

- What a virtuoso! Would not you were doing the same and even worse when you were their age?

- Maybe he did the same when looking, not worse, at least I do not prick the conscience of have
corrupted any young honest or home.

- You're right: Set yourself apart. But I think the work toilet you take ... I will always
believe that, for women, Leonardite next to you is sucking child.

- Let us recriminations, Rosa, and let's get to what touches us more closely, as parents of
the boy ... The thing is very serious, serious ... Supe ... Not care how, where, when. I knew
I made large purchases of furniture and household gadgets.

Had to spend a fortune. Where has there been? Have you in debt? Do you have won the game? O. ..
Is you, as Bonaz as always, has provided the means?

Don Candido had hit the milestone. Rosa Negate "the loan, have done hidden husband? Tantamount
to discredit the child from her father, always willing to look their faults by the black side.
So even though convinced and mortified by the deception with it had been practiced, preferred to
state the truth and bear the blame for the dissipation famous son.

-
Do you see now, Rosa, said Don Candido without acrimony, the bad result
of blind love some mothers to their children?

Do not you recognize that in some cases it is better to sin with them however hard and soft?
Leonardo asks you money and lend it, because you can not tell no, and because I figure that if
you deny it dies of grief ... And he takes the money, buy furniture, rent home ... What the
hell?

Of course, clearly, to carry it dear. No great insight is needed ... So that, if I advance, bye, studies!
Goodbye school! Goodbye, wedding in November!, Like you and I had agreed, according to him.

- Well is everything you say, but I'm hoping you say where you have hidden the girl.

- The Collected.

It seems to me, watching the race said that the wife remained silent and shook in bed, seems to
me that this was the best and least risky game that could have been chosen to save the boy and
the girl from the precipice of ruin ...

- Yes, said Dona Rosa, do you figure that because you've got the girl
in the Pickups, and everything was arranged and completed?

Know that you have not achieved anything. The child has taken the thing to heart. Love is blind.

-
Who! Don Candido said scornfully. Love, love! Or gout. What he feels that boy's blood boil, fever,
headaches. It has nothing to do with this heart. It will happen. Do not worry.

- You will, eh? Maybe.

But the child is not eating, not sleeping, suffering, suffering, sorrow, crying. I fear a disease
that costs you the feeling.

Yeah, like you do not see, not hear, not what understand, speak as
you speak.

- Put your thing on your part.

To you, who have more influence on him than me, you belong to you comfort him and make him by
trail. Will not you tell him that by the next mail Spain I hope the title of Count of Casa
Gamboa, who has served with grace our August sovereign? Did You?
Maybe the news will be glad.

- Rejoice!

How little you know your son! I gave him the news. And you know what I said? That nobility
bought with the blood of blacks that you and the other Spanish stole in Africa to condemn them to
eternal slavery, was not noble, but infamy, and I looked at the title
as the greatest disgrace ...

- Ah!

The rogue, the rebel, the earless! Don Candido exploded in a paroxysm of indignation. Go if you
boil Creole blood in the veins! It would still be able to trumpet the very early by his father
as arming with slaughter on this island the chaos of the mainland. Y want freedom because they weigh
the yoke! Because they can not stand the tyranny! Work the very lazy and have no time or opportunity
to complain about the best of governments. I I would stick from ear to ear as the mules ...

- No more nonsense and insults, Rosa stopped him bothered. Strips of the Creoles as if my children
and I were in your land. You hate to Havana, why does it hurt to get paid in the same currency?
Leonardite partly right. Deprive him of all tastes and pleasures ... I do not know how not despair.
There he will do everything in their power to get the girl Closure ...

- Like you do not give money, "said Don Candido start, slush, I doubt
that get away with the attempt.

Do not give money, do not give it at random. But as your baby choking is a gift, let's one
of sufficient quality to fill with pride and makes you ashamed of the abyss of degradation to
which proposed decrease.

- What is the gift of hope holding the miracle ...?

- The house of Soler Abreu is removed in raffle sales. Get him, Leonardo alhajémosla when he
marries Elizabeth. They sell for 60,000 dollars.

- Almost the value of a mill.

- The house is worth that money. It is a palace, like no other in Havana. You should not stand
in hairs: this is the salvation of your most beloved son.

My account are the purchase and empowerment of the cage, yours runs the domestication of the
bird has to occupy.

Fixed the plan and distributed the papers, his Don Candido played without delay or difficulty. Doña
Rosa, on the contrary, due to its peculiar character from the first
steps put insurmountable obstacle to the realization of the project.

Entered through a lot in the composition of a haughty Dona Rosa and suspicion to they often
cease to be unjust and unwise in their domestic relationships ... Nobody better Leonardo knew
the weakness of his mother.

As soon as she told him the project conditions domestication, all founded in his resignation to the
possession of Cecilia, decided predispose poking against her husband's jealousy of his wife at
the most. Bastola for which it referred, without naming it, as he had heard from Cecilia, referring
to illegal dealings and Don Candido suspects the young and the old neighborhood for a long time Angel
behind, to the money in them was spending with extravagance or generosity of the old love, the
stranger had always taken interest in the maintenance and welfare
of two women, to the vigilance with which the girl was jealous care
and health elderly, in short, the effective and consistent services
in these dubious businesses morality had lent Montes de Oca.

Each and every one of these reports, along with others already mentioned, had reached the ears
Dona Rosa at different times and through various channels. The relationship of late and rigged
son only served to complement and confirm what she knew by heart or merely suspected.

It appears unnecessary to add that in this case, as in all of its kind, stocked the weed their
malignant effect. Well, that irritated the mother against the father for the alleged continued
violation of conjugal faith, in revenge or retaliation hatched in
secret with the child to be mine to blow up the parapets raised by
Don Candido in defending the honor of Cecilia Valdés.

A Dona Rosa execution committed their money and influence.

To help in the arduous undertaking, it required only three conditions: one, that the child continue
to graduate studies degree in law, another to marry Isabel Ilincheta end of the year, and the
third, to accept, without complaint, the gift of the palace, with that very subject, he did his father.
Everything promised Leonardo plane.

The first step was to request the services of Mary Rule, that nurse
The Tinaja wit, whose guile and talent recognized mother and child
together, Despite the animosity with which they looked.

Prestose it the best wins, both because it was in its nature the
role of conspiracy, since it promised to pay with goods of many evils
received at the hands of the two.

From then after work began on the sap.

There was a real revolution Cecilia entry at the home of the Collected. His youth, their beauty,
their cries, their tears, the very motives of his prison spells assumptions used to seduce a young
white millionaire family from Havana, all attended to inspire curiosity, sympathy or admiration
for women of various colors and conditions fulfilling terms longer
or shorter sentence.

For they were vulgar, and off to be at its heart the sense of dignity staff, they were impossible
to avoid the influence of circumstances whose magic exercise their
empire in this sublunary world while reflecting the sunlight.

Apparently, little could Cecilia earn him their sympathy and outbursts
of admiration for all that were strong enough around him to create
that atmosphere of respect and consideration that contributed relief
from their sentences while in the collection and which after the doors
opened.

The keeper of the sheep was a bachelor derailed green, a sort of puppet
with whom years or penances had tamed human passions.

To this date, only had entered the establishment in charge of women
of low extraction, old, ugly and worn by the vices.

Under conditions very different Cecilia came to increase their numbers.

Perhaps he had sinned but certainly not by vice or evil inclination.

That paid their few years, decent and modest demeanor, his appearance
and pearl diverting their smooth cheeks.

The pain, the shame of being locked up and confused between some
women knowingly of misconduct, was undoubtedly what made her burst
into tears and complaining.

Many and those matters of genuine despite inconsistent with the crime.

So

reasoned the keeper of the House of collections, and without hesitation
declared the champion and Cecilia's friend.

His pleasure was to go after hours to the window of the room that had assigned to surprise her,
in secret, in his demonstrations of feeling, falling more and ignite
it in anger against their persecutors.

Sometimes the chair was in the head and arms resting on the table,
while leaving the tuft of his hair abounds Loose care to cover those
parts of his back which he was quite a veto of looks loose secular
dress.

Sometimes she suddenly lifted her eyes and hands together to heaven
and exclaimed in the most trouble;

- God!

My God! Why blame me I deserve this terrible punishment?

In all these cases was withdrawn to their goal keeper made a basilisk.

In one of those moments of anger philanthropic rained appeared as
Maria de Regla pretending to sell seasonal fruits and preserves, as
business was concerned then.

The man did not want to buy or get caught in a conversation that
could distract him from his bittersweet thoughts.

But this did not abandoned its goal of selling. Expected, on the contrary, stricter rejection.
Said to the sweet tone I used:

- Does it hurt the Lord's head or teeth? (No treatment gave their mercy).

- Nothing hurts me, "he growled.

- I'm glad, because those are the pangs of pain.

Mr See if they want collected fresh fruit or syrup.

- We are not for fruit or candy now. There is also no money at home.

- I trust.

- Go with God and leave me alone.

- Other times bought me sweets and fruits here.

- Not in my time.

When was the fool would often take my place.

- Maybe.

- I do not allow trade with the prey. The regulation prohibits any goings on the net.

- As I have said that the man was as good as the bread with the poor collected.

- You have been deceived. I'm bad, very bad.

- The Lord is not bad. No way! I know him in the face is not.

- Basta. Do not want to gab.

- Okay. The charge, charge. I'll go, but before he did not have the goodness to hear the message
just give me a gentleman to the Lord?

- What message? Dispatches, the man replied rudely after staring at the saleswoman.

- Do you have here Mr. prey to a white girl?

- I have imprisoned anyone. Jailer I'm not, I am a mere custodian of collections, by delegation
the illustrious Bishop Espada y Landa.

- Forgive me sir.

I meant that if there was a white girl contained herein.

- White apparently.

Yes what?

- Well, I tell the gentleman was very interested in this girl.

- What I care about your interest? We will not eat it.

- Never say "I will not drink this water." Because I say is very rich gentleman and is very fond
of the girl.

And lord knows what he is capable of a rich gentleman when is madly
in love and keep you from seeing and talking to his beloved torture.

-
We said goalkeeper more heal quickly.

What do you mean the gentleman that?

- Not much. Wants Mr give the child on their side these oranges (choose six from the most beautiful
of the board), and tell him he is putting much effort and money spent
to remove as soon as this prison.

- Man!, Said the policeman hesitated,
I have not ever done the role of run-see-and tell.

- Come, sir, that
you will not regret.

Sepal: the gentleman is very rich, very grateful and is very much
in love.

Goalkeeper scared, shaky, uncertain, it was a long time standing,
watching, and the black and the oranges.

After he asked huskily through fear or shame:

- What do you call the gentleman?

- The child knows, "said Maria
de Regla, abruptly walking away.

He remained the keeper thoughtful, as if rooted to the bars of the
goal.

Soon we passed the lock to the door, he locked it, and three oranges
in each hand he went into the yard of the House of Recogidas.

There was all that can be filled with illusions of a man in love, and hope to a woman afflicted,
in the brief interview that he had the keeper with Cecilia. There were those of - you. is
my savior. What angel brought you to this poor woman persecuted?
I am innocent. My only crime love is a lot like a young man who died
for me. This has made me the father of the gentleman from who you
talk to me. All his rage against me is because they love him and want
his son. You have mercy on a woman unjustly persecuted.

The doorman
went away another man .-- Who comes up with a girl brought here like
this? - Is asked himself. The devil, but the evil spirit to tempt
and draw from their boxes to the peaceful people. Here I would like
to see the strong men, the same saints. "Resist? It will soften, they
would melt, would be delivered footed into the clutches of Satan.
Will he have the courage to see her mourn, complain and beg to hear
it and not take their part? I will do what it wants. Is clear. And
stay wrong with the Bishop, my protector, will fall from grace, lose
the position I occupy in this house. But what remedy? She is very
cute, cry, and I'm not stick. Damn fruit!

Two or three days later
it returned, and keeper of the collections did not get it wrong. Brought
new claim: that of a private conversation with the prisoner in the
prison. Visits were prohibited inside the house could only speak to
those contained in the presence of the guardian at the gate of the
goal. But Mary Rule argued the point with skill, saying, among other
things, not surprisingly, the porter will help kill an innocent child
sadness, and made complicit in the greatest injustice that had occurred
previously in Havana. That gentleman, lover of the girl, he had very
advanced steps to remove closure, and, of course, exclude from its
gratitude to all those who had oppressed their adored torment. Then
he added, as if suddenly remembering:

- The gentleman gave me for
lord these half-dozen ounces of gold, in case the girl needed something
to eat, or dress, or any craving ...

This last argument ended up
spoiling the rest of virtue or embarrassment of the goalkeeper. Granted
entry. Briefly describe the scene now followed the interview the messenger
with the dam.

María Cecilia Rule found in the same position in which
said had surprised guardian days before, only this time not the hair
that covered part of the back overlooking the entrance to the cell.
Something began to see there's former nurse, who called him greatly
care.

- Jesus! said. What do I see? Is it possible that this child
is the same as I suspected? What things happen in this world!

In
that voice and those incoherent exclamations, Cecilia raised her head
and asked Ringtone unconscious and suffering:

- What do you want?

-
I want to tell me his mercy his first name.

- Cecilia Valdés.

-
Jesus! she cried the black. Itself than I expected! Like a dream.
You know his mercy Who painted the crescent?

- What crescent?

-
The bears his mercy in the shoulder (with the index touching the girl's
left).

- This is not painting, is a mole, or rather, a brand I have
been there as a result a blow to my childhood.

- No, if your worship
is really, really Cecilia Valdés I know, that's not the moon, or hit
mark: crescent is the grandmother of his mercy he painted and indigo
needle before to throw it into the Real Casa Cuna.

- Oh! Mother never
told me such thing.

- I know because that was the signal that I got
to recognize among the other girls the Royal Baby.

- Who is you who
knows so much about me?

- Is it possible that your worship does not
know me yet? Should remember me.

- No, indeed.

- Well, I gave suck
to their mercy, first in the Real Casa Cuna, and then for about a
year, staying with the grandmother of his mercy, when she lived in
the alley in San Juan of God