 Whether it was instinct, whether by conviction, not followed
meekly any personal style. It is logical to admit that Ribera, Zurbaran and Luis Tristán, we
like more than Vargas, so respected in Seville, and Guido Lanfranco and whose mannered works were
brought from Italy, more precisely against such speculation and conjecture, what characterizes
Velázquez from spotting the first still lifes speaking Pacheco to his last works, is that deep
and respectful love of nature, that made him see it his one true master in the highest sense
of the word.

Great as it was at that time the culture of Seville, it was natural for Madrid, where they lived
kings and the wealthiest families, attracted to the provincial artists. Only Madrid court, vainly
said then, and the court wanted to come eager to study Velázquez the marvels that adorned their
palaces, houses, convents, Philip IV, the great lords and religious communities. Moreover, even
Greco lived in Toledo [25], and the great sacred mole de El Escorial, as the pompous language
of the time, were paintings by Tintoretto and Titian; stimulus over and above the desire to thrive,
so that the artist wanted to take travel.

"Desiring, therefore, to see El Escorial [26] - states Pacheco - departed from Seville to Madrid,
by month of April of 1622. It was very entertained by the two brothers D. Luis and D. Melchor's
Alcazar, and in particular D. Juan de Fonseca, SM curtain sommelier (fan his painting). He, at my
request, a portrait of D. Luis de Gongora, who was widely celebrated in Madrid, and then there was no
place to portray the Kings, but was sought. " Don Antonio Palomino - who as I have already
written more than fifty years after the death of Velazquez - says who left Sevilla accompanied
only by a servant, then other biographers, Lefort among them, have assumed that this server
was his slave, Juan de Pareja, more than a certain not known. Who portrayed Gongora is safe, as
witnessed by Pacheco. Not so out of doubt that this portrait is the one that is preserved in the Museo
del Prado with no. 1,085. The poet, then resident in Madrid, was sixty years his images are like
this, and Velázquez brought commissions for portraits, circumstances conducive to admit the
authenticity. In contrast, given the importance of character and interest shown by the father, is
not credible in-law was limited to only paint a head: it was natural that, out of respect for
the personality and to love one another, hiciese work best efforts, where the author of Polyphemus
and Loneliness, so admired in his time, was full body, or at least half figure; a portrait,
for example, similar to what later became the sculptor and Martinez Montanes many years it
has been assumed by Alonso Cano. Finally, the painting of the head of Góngora is dry, hard
and tired that many did before coming to Madrid on sovereign artist
who is credited.

And because a serious matter requiring his presence there, and it desperately to get their wishes,
Velázquez returned that year to Seville: but the next Don Juan, 1623 Fonseca was called by
order of the Count-Duke of Olivares, loosed aid coast fifty crowns for the journey, it seems,
was accompanied by Pacheco. Hospedose in house of Fonseca, and skill and as shown, a token
of gratitude or perhaps trick between the two agreed that he knew soon made him a portrait Velázquez.
"Brought him to the Palace that night - said Pacheco [27] - a son of the Earl of Peñaranda, waiter
Cardinal Infante [28] and within an hour I saw all of the Palace, the Birth and the King, which
was the highest rating he had. Ordenose that portrays Infante, but it seemed more convenient
to the SM first, but might not be as ready for big jobs, in fact, it was at 30 August 1623, like SM,
de los Infantes and the Conde-Duque, who said they had not portrayed King none before. He made
a sketch of the Prince of Wales [29], which gave hundred crowns.

"Spake the first time his Excellency the Conde-Duque encouraging the honor of the fatherland and
promising that he alone had to portray SM, and would send the other portraits are collected.
Mandola bring home to Madrid, and sent his title on the last day of October, 1623 with twenty
ducats per month salary, and paid work, and with this, medical and pharmacy: again, by SM
ordered, and was sick, he sent the Count-Duke the same physician to King visit him. After this,
having done the portrait of His Majesty on horseback, imitated all
the natural to the country, with its license and was like on Main
Street across from St. Felipe, with admiration of the whole court
and envy of the art, that I witnessed.

"

The above lines can infer to some extent who were the first portraits that did Velázquez Philip
IV. He must first painting is now in the Museum Prado with the number 1070, which is the monarch
of about eighteen, Length and size, in black suit in court. Then, in order to get a hand to
the portrait horse, that speaks Pacheco, would you take the no. 1,071 of the museum, canvas which
the monarch is the same age, and where he is pictured with steel armor bust time. Finally,
the horses would be exposed against a popular hangout for San Felipe,
and that he should burn in the fire of 1734.

Velázquez's fortune was secured, meaning to continue serving security King, and instead of
that envy of the art, the artist poured Seville applause and poetry, his own father gave him
a sonnet that even out of curiosity worth copying, and Don Juan Velez de Guevara wrote another
which while better than that is not good. The King thanks him room house that represented two hundred
ducats each year, gave three hundred gift and gave him a pension of so many, to be of being
church when you know that to enjoy it was necessary, waiver. And here should look at that,
judging by the above-mentioned phrases Pacheco, Velazquez entered gaining real wages in the
service, a word is enough to give an idea of ??the relationships
that his life were to connect you with the monarch.

Difficult if not impossible, and unworthy of a popular science book would be intended to set
box by category and year by year, all the work of the artist. You can ensure, however, partly
for reliable data, especially because they say it clearly and color performance, which this
period of his life belong the portrait (No. 1086 of the Catalogue of the Museo del Prado) with
little ground passes for Dona Juana Pacheco, the wife of author and another man Young's in
the Munich Pinakothek, and another called the geographer shown at the Museum of Rouen. Then, to make
1626 the Infante Don Carlos [30] (No. 1073 of the Museum Prado), full-length and size on foot,
dressed in a black suit and cape, that artists call it the glove, because the right has one
caught by a finger and hanging. No would be wise to hold that in this admirable picture, although
here and there something hard and dry, finish the first artist's way, because in general or
art forms or in particular personal styles begin and end abruptly, but by gradation; but we
can affirm the indisputable superiority of the table with regard to how much to Velázquez had
painted then, at least for what remains. This drawing, like all thing, with that wonderful feeling
of the line was from the beginning, but what plays to do so, it begins to dawn on the canvas
more ease, less effort for modeling, and with regard to color, the tendency to seek fresh and elegant
harmony of grays and blacks that grew on both and managed as anyone.

Then painted a work that has been lost: the expulsion of the Moors. Popular intolerance, the
adulation of the chroniclers and superstition itself, would believe that Felipe IV impolitic
and cruel act was the most honored the memory of his father, and wanted it eternal. Looks things
fairly, is excusable that the King should think so. Fed up with guilt weigh on the memory of that
shameful monarchy, to be charged with this that was evil the entire
nation.

Felipe IV, Velázquez did not direct the execution only of his thinking, but calling various
artists as a contest, offered a reward for the best interpreted. Pacheco, it does not describe
the picture, said that his son was "a large canvas with the portrait of King Philip III and the
unexpected expulsion of the Moors, as opposed to three painters of the King and having outstripped
them all, those of people who named His Majesty (who were Marquis Juan Bautista Crecencio, the
habit of Santiago, and Fray Juan Bautista Maino, the habit of Santo Domingo, both of great
knowledge in the paint), made him the mercy of a trade high honor in the palace, to usher in
House with its perks, and not satisfied this was added ration given to the camera, which are twelve
real every day to his plate, and many aid costs ", which we see the
great painter promoted a degree in the ranks the servants of the palace.

The

painters were defeated in that tournament Caxés, Nardi and Carducho Vicencio, who had to be bitter
for a long time, then six years later he published his book attacking yet Velázquez covertly. He
vowed his new position in the hands of the Duke of Arcos to March 7 , 1627 and work with black
and gold frame was placed on the part of Alcazar later called Hall of Mirrors.

Palomino, which reached him, he describes in these words: "In the middle of this picture is
the Lord King Felipe III armed with cane in hand, pointing to a troop of men, weeping women and children
who are driven by some soldiers, and far away a car, and a piece of sea, with some boats to
transport them ... A right hand Spain king is represented in a stately matron, sitting at the
foot of a building in The right hand holds a shield, and a few darts, and a pin in his left,
armed to Roman inscription at his feet in the socket. "

This brief and where the work was laid the basis for suspicion the character of the composition.
In the eighth dialogue Carducho quoted [31] to talk about the paintings was in the palace, a
picture of the Fe that is passed to the barbarous idolatry of India the arms of Spain, and
mentions another of King Philip II standing, offering the Prince Don Fernando, who was born in 1571,
which was the great naval victory that had the great Selin and Ochiali in Lepanto, to which end the
hieroglyphics painted ... Finally, add a few lines down in the same room there are paintings
by Rubens, of Caxés, Ribera and Velázquez. From these observations it follows that for that room, where
tables were set allegorical, alluding to the greatness of the monarchy, must have ordered the expulsion
of the Moors and that there there already quoted from Titian, which is still preserved in the
Museo del Prado [32] the taste of great Venetian, would conform Velázquez. The flames of the
fire of 1735 as private consumption the people come to know how to interpret the great artist
that political crime where was sacrificed to religious unity to all that there not in the man
of divine origin: charity.

The King had to please a lot of work and some more to paint then Velázquez, but as the Treasury
of the Municipality Palace, called the Bure, was far less a model of accuracy in payment, the
artist had to make a claim, considering the which was clarified that this portion of twelve
famous real, given by all to paint and so proud to Pacheco, referring to the portraits of the King
and not the other tables; Velázquez giving happy. And so was Philip, El Grande, it rewarded his
way the artist to dictate the following order:

"In Diego Velazquez, my house painter, I have been good to not give my pantry home daily ration
in kind as that barbers have my camera, considering that it has satisfied all that is owed to date
of the works of his office; and all that I command below will do well to note in the books of the
house. (There is a section of the King). In Madrid on September 18, 1628 [33]. The Count of Arcos,
in Bure. "

Say what you want the worshipers of the past about the time difference, uses and customs, to argue
that what now seems humiliating was then honor, truth is that reading such things no one wants
to come to his lips the bitter laugh that inspire large human meanness, especially if one considers
that the barbers of the House dresses were given mercy, and that Velázquez would receive along
with the dwarfs and jester who served him as a child model Vallecas Nicolasito Pertusato, the
booby Coria, gourds and protruding, not worth arguing that all the servants palate, the Conde Duque down,
would be in the same case, because if you have a moral duty who can do everything, the first
is to put the feeling of the dignity and external to the stupidity of the routine. In more remote
Dello honored greatly to the Florentine, D. John II of Castile, and so Francisco I made the Vinci,
Julius II and Michelangelo, Rafael León X, Marie de Medicis Rubens, and Rembrandt town of Amsterdam.
Felipe IV and thought differently and On one occasion he came from Spain to expel foreigners because
they ate lots of bread, believe that the name of his favorite artist was not bad on the same
roster that the barber, urchin, dwarfs and buffoons. Some of them immortalized Velázquez painting
them luck that being of such low birth today are his portraits alongside those of the King.
If he did it with malice was a great wit, if she lacked, and presumably for his goodness, time has
vindicated.

[Image: MUSEO DEL PRADO

The Count-Duke of Olivares

FRAME.

Rubens was twice in Spain, the first when in 1603, sent by the Duke of Modena he served, came to
the Court of Valladolid, bearing rich presents to Felipe III and the Duke of Lerma. Thus, writing
to the Secretary Hannibal Chieppio and talking that Isberti, Modena's ambassador here, I wanted
to paint several pictures helped Spanish artists, he says: "secondaries
his wish, but do not approve, considering the short time at our disposal,
coupled with the incredible failure and neglect these painters and
their way (which God forbid I look at all), absolutely different from
mine "[34]