 Pierced Semira
the sky with their cries, crying, Dear Husband, I have to whom ye I love it! Not moved the
danger in which he was, as his dear Zadig alone in thought. Defendíala this with all the boldness
of love and courage, and with the help of two slaves drove alone to the robbers, and he brought
to Semira bloody and faint, that opened my eyes met their freedom. O Zadig! said to him, I loved
like my husband, and now I want like that life whom I am indebted and honored. Never overflowed
one breast more tender affection than Semira, never so pretty mouth spoke so vividly of those
expressions swollen that the gratitude of the highest benefit and the most tender affection
of most legitimate abductions are children. His wound was slight, and he recovered soon. Zadig
was wounded in greater danger, because an arrow had made a deep wound near the eye. Semira
importuned to the Gods the cure of her lover: Day and night eyes bathed in tears, waited impatiently
Zadig moment that they could enjoy in looking at, but a boil that formed in the injured eye
caused the greatest fear. Memphis sent to call the doctor famous Hermes, who came with a swollen
entourage, and having visited the patient stated that inevitably perdia the eye, predicting up
to the day and time that had happened so fatal dismantling. If there been, he said, the right
eye, I would heal, but the wounds of the left have no cure. All Babylon hurt the fate of Zadig,
while it was amazed at the profound science Hermes. Two days after the boil burst naturally, and
healed Zadig. Hermes wrote a book, proving that there should be healed, the qual Zadig did not
read, but then he could out, went to see who expected that of happiness, and who only wanted
to have eyes, he found himself in his fifth Semira three days to, and knew the road Zadig,
who, after to declare resolutely that he had an invincible antipathy to the one-eyed, beautiful
lady Orcan had married that night. Desmayóse to hear this news, and was in no that your pain
will conduxera the tomb, but after a long illness, but the reason could that feeling, and it
was no small part of the same atrocity comfort of the grievance. Well I am a victim, he said,
of so cruel whim of a woman raised in the palace, I will marry a daughter of a respectable neighbor.
Chosen because of Azor wife, a damsel very sane and best nature, in whom there is any defect
noticed more nothingness, and there is little inclination to believe The cutest boys were always
the most wise and virtuous.

CHAPTER II

Noses.

One day she returned from walking Azora all immutable and decomposed by gestures: What are you,
dear? Zadig said to him, what is so far beyond what you made thee? Ay! replied Azora same hicieras
you, if you had seen the scene I just witnessed, had gone to console Cosrúa to the young widow
has erected two days ago, a mausoleum of the deceased young man, husband yours, it is the stream that
bathes the prairie, swearing to the gods, in their pain, they would not depart in the vicinity
of this tomb, whilst the stream is not moved its flow. Well done, 'said Zadig, that's a sign that
a woman is well, that really loved her husband. Ha, replied Azora, if you knew it was his occupation
Quando qual went to see her .-- Qual era, beautiful Azora? - Dar another channel for the stream.
Azora then added many invectives, burst into such a bitter accusations against the widow girl,
who under very upset to Zadig as boastful. A friend of his named Er, was one of the waiters who
was said Azora by merit and integrity more than others, Zadig she trusted him his secret, hold,
in quanto he was able, with Quanti loyalty gifts. Azora After spending two days in a villa
of her friend returned to his home the third. The servants told him crying that night had fallen
dead suddenly her husband, who had not dared to bring bad news, that ended Zadig to bury in
the grave of his parents at the end of the garden. Azora cried, mesábase hair, and swore he
did not want to live. That night asked permission to speak Cador with her, and wept both.
The next day I cry less, and ate together. Cador Fiole that he had forsaken his friend most
of his wealth, and gave him to understand that their greatest that would be able to part with
it