 Neither were necessary
words.

- If you see me mourn - said D. Benigno, wiping a tear with a heroic gesture - do not think I
am poor and distressed. In my chest do not fit or lad nor envy of mourning frustrated desires.
I am calm and happy, happy. If I cry is attracting your tears are running mine without knowing
why. I was a bit different from punishment, yes, but I am comforted to know that if my children
have lost their second mother, good sister are born, Is not it?

Was beginning to fall afternoon and felt the cool of the Tagus.

D. Benigno proposed to withdraw home, and leaving the pearl hard,
took the rough and winding road.

- As the nights grow - Sola said,
giving his arm to his father.

- Yes, my daughter - said this - and
the morning takes a little longer, but comes, do not worry.

- I do
not remember how long it takes from here to Madrid.

- Well, not much.

Peralvillo take the car, which is far sooner.

Do not know the novelty in the world? Well now you have invented in England about treadmills,
evil car that goes like the wind, walk, walk .... I do not know what goes, but if there one from
Toledo to Madrid, we would go in two hours.

- In two hours! That's fable.

- Fable?

D. told me Salvador, who has seen it.

- He has seen this machine?

-
And it has gone.

- He has walked on it?

It will be wonderful thing.

- Imagine ....

D. Benigno stopped, and the complacency that produced in him the wonders
of the emerging century industry was prepared to give her daughter
demonstrative explanations, to which put horizontal stick and ran
his fingers over it.

- Imagine there on the floor two bars of iron
which are in accordance with enormous wheels Car ... as well as houses.

These cars are tied together. A little to push them as wheels meet the iron bars, wham! that runs
like lightning.

- I understand ... mules ....

- If no mules, silly .... And will explain D. Salvador, which has mounted on such vehicles. That
mischief have put the English among a people who call Liverpool and
another named Manchester.

D. says Salvador that this is flight.

- Fly! Pride !...-- thing Sola said enthusiastically -. Saying "I want to go to that part now same
"and ...

- And out one with it.

Well, I say, there are no horses.

Anyone string of cars is moved by a devilish device or mechanism, which is in heat and steam,
and blowing blows, he walks. I do not know how this is.

D. explained it to me Salvador, but I have not been understand.

-
And the way to go here and there will not elsewhere?

- Yes, says
our friend who is spreading, which in England are doing more of these
blessed railroads, and in France, will start putting well.

- And
in Spain?, Do not do them?

Lamb sighed.

- Now going to start a war, if God does not intervene - he said sadly.

- Upon completion ....

- Maybe start over .... But, after all, we also have here these paths,
although only to sample.

D. Salvador says he will spread throughout the land, and that even wildest regions that machine
will run to blows.

- And see here, this caminejo?

- Why not?

- And we say: "In Madrid ...».

- Yes, but that miracle will not happen tomorrow, dear child - Lamb
said smiling -.

For now content ourselves with three mules to Peralvillo.

They entered the house, where they found D. Primitive Lamb, nephew of D. Benigno, who came to
spend a few days in Cigarrales, and brought great news of the Court, including death del Rey. Dined
all a little saddened by the melancholy influence of such news, gloomy comments that accompanied
them former militia captain, and the ominous portents he did.

When D. Benigno stated his intention of going to Madrid the coming day, he announced Primitivo
with informal pessimism probably find the troops insurrection in the streets, the lawlessness,
and the entire village, the Court and the monarchy, given all the demons.

At dawn the next day Sola rose, and opening wide the window from his room overlooking the field, and
whose sill climbed the highest branches of the almond balmy air breathed in the morning and
looked at the trails, the ground, the tower of the cathedral distinguished, in the distance
and amid the dark green of the landscape looked like a cypress stone left to run after their
eyes on the floor below to the horizon, yellowish term stony hills and blue, was with her spirit
beyond the horizon itself, which returned to sadness. One might have thought that I missed
those iron bars that D. Benign spoke the previous evening and that, if any, men would imitate
the wonderful travel of the birds. Nothing was in the crooked paths that indicate that the fairies
had held last night in those pathways tend metal, miracle of locomotion, incredible own path
to be traveled on the wings of spirit, with the feet of the subject.

Arose shortly after Lamb. Peralvillo's car could not take, and had to be underpinned chocolate and
pastries for the long and troublesome journey.

Gave one point to the meditations addressing the various necessities of the hour, and when D. Benigno
and she found alone, the hero could not help but ask him what was in their eyes traces of tears,
being more favorable circumstances than adverse.

Sola said that he could not sleep all night because the terrible things that had Primitivo and omens
was filled with dread mysterious spirit. It was true that he said, but had also greatly influenced
his insomnia abrupt and painful the radical change in their destiny, their ideas all the conversation
that she and her protector were worthy to the river bank. Sola Cordero did not want to hide
everything I felt and thought.

- I'm so numb since yesterday afternoon - he said - I do not know how I feel. I spent night
imagining or dreaming disaster trips and falls.

I can not convince them that God take me that way now so different from what went before,
without having to go right to a very great misfortune. I was born with ill fortune.

- Tales, my dear, things of the imagination - said D. Benigno, draining
your chocolate -.

We deliver a vacuous musings and have confidence in God. That good and bad stars is not very
Christian to say.

- Is true, but I can not avoid suspecting danger, being afraid of
everything, and this misfortunes.

It is a specialty of mine.

If I had not counted Primitivo many horrors .... Now with the death of King, it will ignite
a war such that Spain will be a nation of orphans and widows. Yes, that is .... Flow rivers
of blood, rivers such as water, and brothers kill brothers .... everything has to rule whether
the uncle or niece uncle niece. What dreadful nonsense! And these things happen in meetings with
people countries and nations are called! ... And this is the vaunted wisdom of men in Europe
they laugh at the wild!

I, ignorant woman, I say that these scholars do not have common sense.

- Daughter of my soul - said D. Benigno - are you talking as the patriarch
of philosophy as Jean Jacques Rousseau.

Yes, the current state of nations and common sense are incompatible.

In their enthusiasm, Lamb tremolo napkin that had just detached buttonhole
of his coat.

That canvas was the banner of common sense, the flag without color and heraldry.

- I could not remove from me all night - Sola said - an idea that
makes me shudder penalty.

Who assures us that the man whom we seek, and will not be compromised in the civil war? Is it not
likely to be firing shots in the streets?

Can not happen that is already dead?

- Shut up, stupid .... A man so wise .... Do not you realize you ...?

-
I do not understand anything, I feel and nothing else.

The heart usually has some guesses as weird .... Sometimes very mischievous, insists on one
thing, and God takes care after giving like .... I hope I'm wrong. And now God commands us not just
the scourge of civil war We also sent another, this terrible disease .... Do not you hear
about this Primitivo? It's a bad weird, for which people die within hours, sometimes in minutes,
is a Amazing invisible stab and kill, and no one is sure to live within half an hour.

- Yes - said D. Benigno, falling in sombre sadness - is the Asiatic cholera.

On hearing this name repulsive and scary, Sola running through his body felt cold complacent. Lamb
felt the same.

- The disease - he said - has appeared in Spain. People are very quiet for the street, and suddenly
wham! fall to the ground and die. But this infection does not come Madrid .... Come on, there's
the car.

They heard the glad bells Peralvillo mules. Sola said goodbye to the children crying, and promised
to return soon. When boarding the car, said:

- Slow?

- We fly - said the Hero -. Peralvillo, lead us to hurry .... Oh! Too bad we do not have Now
for those lanes of Satan here!

And he was right. Great pity that at this critical time there were no rails Satan!

-XVII-

On the morning of 29 and when no one suspected that the King's death was so close, let Pipaón
being single. The cute couple were blessed with the beautiful church wedding San Cayetano,
on the corner of Bear Street and in charge of giving it was Father Carantoña, of the Dominican
order, big buddy of the bridegroom. Attended by people of quality, There was much pomp and worldly church,
were distributed alms, and everything was ready for in the neighborhoods of the South remain
dilated memory of the event by time. The sleaze D. Felicísimo not allowed lunch heading is given,
as seemed natural in the bride's house and struck him in his very bearing Pipaón and magnificence. But
most the day was notable altercation with our courteous D. Very happy.

The newlyweds, believing that if the old man gave no lunch, not deny them his blessing, were beyond
very joyful, but the devil, who never rests, had made some news Butcher
that morning of traicioncillas of Pipaón and blows that had been infamous
the antechamber of Her Majesty the Queen Cristina.

There was the good lord chirping when they arrived spouses, and I wish they had not gone before,
because just as a volcano erupts, burst D. anger Very happy, not in your mouth was bad sounding
word or epithet burner. White stood the blessed agent, such as limestone, and her face causing
terror level because seemed ready to break into pieces, dropping each fraction by his side.
In vain did Pipaón apologize in vain tried to apologize Micaelita
also love that led day I had, and to Doña María del Sagrario timidly
threw a word of peace in the fiery invective.

Were increasing the anger of the stubborn old man replies, and to conclude grandchildren threw into
the street, ordering them never to set foot in that house loyalty, and warned to disinherit the best
way he could. Husbands left heads down, and when they said goodbye to Mrs. Sagrario in the door,
grabbed the old man sentenced with steely claw arm tables, which side was, and with ardent desire
said:

- Tables, four dollars, four dollars for you if you go now and give it a kick that rascal and
throw him rolling down the stairs. Do not hurt my granddaughter, right? My granddaughter does not.

The
athlete did not play the role of cachetero unworthy at that nasty race household is designated,
and all was in that state. After scolded D. Very happy with Mrs. María del Sagrario, with
the maid, with Tables, and called them they could go to the street and leave him alone, but to
live among spies or traitors, he preferred to be alone with the fair and disinterested cat.
The good man vented his anger by blowing, blowing strong and repeated and that furious trumpet echoed
through the house like the horns of Military Appeals. There was indeed fragile illusion that walls
of the house shaking and the walls of Jericho, because during the coming and going of people
at the time of berrinchín, the floor was shaking and so shake so threatening that the expelled
gladly took the door.

In the afternoon, they were not yet placated the angry spirits of the church staff, Monsalud
Salvador came to see him. D. I was very happy with despondency.

- I've sent come to you - said taking the foot of a goat and giving him strong thump on the table
- to communicate unpleasant news about our friend Mr. D. Carlos Navarro.

You, hee, hee, he took much interest when that mischief of confinement in jail for Villa, who did not
hesitate to come to you, now that the famous warrior the Almighty is in a trance much more dangerous.

Salvador
heard these words with evident interest, and after stating that he
had not favored Carlist sympathies to Navarro, but by considerations
of gratitude and friendship absolutely personal Butcher begged not
hide anything that the worthy soldiers of the Almighty happening.

The old man writhed in his seat. Taking and leaving with the restless hands, this or that
paper because his nerves were in complete anarchy, and said:

- Will come when these scoundrels, and come, but Christ lives!

Now, under that shadow King, dance on our ribs, but the roles are bartered, hee .... Just imagine
that the brave D. Carlos went to Navarre to confer with Santos and other brave Thief captains,
good people, healthy people, the people of God.

Well, there was a riot of Viana realistic volunteers, by impatience and zeal silly misunderstanding.
The Viceroy 14 Navarre sent against them a column.

The column does not beat anyone ... as always, but caught D. Carlos, who was in the Franciscan
friary, ji, ji, and together with Thief's nephew and a cappuccino Santos, who caught doing rounds,
led him Estella.

Summary was formed, were party to Madrid, and this Government has
sent cowardly and despicable today, today, ji, has commanded to be
put to the sword, Mr. D. Carlos, the nephew Santos capuchinito Thief
and the cartridge.

I know all these details for a Official War Office, which belongs
to us body and soul, and no doubt ji, that execrable order of the
Minister will, at the latest, by the morning mail.

- It is a deplorable
incident - said Salvador thoughtful - but we can not deny the Government
the right of defense.

You, who have so much power, would not be able to avoid this catastrophe,
but only the part that corresponds to our unfortunate friend?

- "I
screamed ?...-- Butcher, in a tone of self-pity -.

Me?

Well is the branch of War in these times that I can achieve ....
You, you ....

- Me? - Said Salvador, sorrowing of his political and
military impotence -.

I have just relations officers.

What if I have to make? To make matters worse, I have been branded as apostolic by some fools,
and the military are very liberal winds today.

I can not anything.

Both short time meditated, D. Very happy with the eyes placed on the
bloody fossil Christ of the column, Salvador reading the lines of
the mat.

- In order of who is Navarro?

Do you know the head of the column that detained or Estella Governor?

-
Well, now ... you captured the rogue military commander and Estella
are the same devilish person, ji, ji, and this person is the lost
of the lost, the grand master of the scoundrels, Pseudocyst, plus
Mason and more liberal Caiaphas Cain .... Do you know him?

- Long
- Salvador replied just read in the mat -.

We have so much friendship, which probably pseudocyst what not to do for me not do it for anyone.

-
What a pity, Santo Cristo de la Vega!

Alas, Blessed Lady of the tabernacle, not Navarra is the leagues
Móstoles or not cut them into sticks!

... because in this case distance kills us. Not valid for this sensitive issue letters of recommendation
....

- It is true that none of this applies.

- The distance, the distance! ... If we could bring here .... Navarra

- We will there to Madrid.

- How?

- Mr. D. Felicísimo - rising Salvador said - I'm going to
Navarre.

- You! ... When?

- As soon as possible. Depends on the
means to find. If I find a car this afternoon, This evening I go.

-
What do you trust to take advantage of his friendship with that skinning
Mason? ... But what friends you have! ... I'm scared.

- I think I
can get something.

- But what is really you ...

- It is already
decided. I am well - said the gentleman giving some rides from one
angle to another in the dusty room.

- Do you want letters of recommendation?

-
Why clergy, canons, soldiers, monks who make cartridges, and abbots
who organize games? Yes, yes, come letters. None of that is useless
for my purpose.

- Know you well what happened - said D. Felicissimo,
delivering Salvador various letters, that this began to read avidly
-. You see what I wrote the Franciscan guardian Estella .... You see
also the relationship of the event very detailed that makes me prior
the bare Viana. There you will see the pseudocyst niceties of his
friend, who smokes in churches, insults to the nuns, and said publicly
that God is Elizabethan.

- I do not think pseudocyst has become silly.

-
See you, see you