 Do you know who was the Lima the whiteness
of your teeth? Al raicero. As the jasmine, this was another industrious street selling certain
real soft and juicy, that girls were entertained in biting rubbing on the teeth.

It seems a joke, but the industry fell. There are no jasmine or raiceros, and it is a pity,
that to any, that they would fall over a municipal contribution to the games on the shaft, these
times when even the dogs pay their share to exercise the right to bark. And, with permission
of you have also eclipsed the pajuelero or seller of sulfur sticks, the pot tips or seller of
cigarettes, and other industrious anticuchero.

Digressions aside, and return to Mariquita.

The Lima of yore knew no barber or an occasional chestnut curls but flown in days of big ring
or hot irons or foil, nor did he ever aceitillo, balms, glycerin
and hair pomades.

The water of God and St. was over, and the scalps were the good, the better.

But girls today say that water rots the hair root, and not in the
mood to build brawl with them holding the contrary.

Drunkards also say they prefer liquor, because water breeding frogs and bugs.

Mariquita had his devil in his mop of hair.

His pride was wearing two luxurious tresses that, Zorrilla said painting the beauty of Eve

The average size foot sole.

One night the moon was the Bridge Mariquita a glance at it, citing a smile that, saddled with
a dig at the past, when suddenly a man took her by the waist, took a sharp knife, and zis!
Wham, within no time you sliced a braid.

Cries and confusion.

A Ladybug he fell into a tantrum, people ran away, was closing gates,
palace and the news came that some pirates had come to the cheetah
silence the mouth of the river and took the city by surprise.

In conclusion, the girl was mocha, and not make way to being called the bald Mariquita, is called
good life, went into a pious and not talk about it again.

II

How to braid her hair was the reason that Peru had an artistic glory

The person who, by tantrum, had shorn Mariquita was a young man of twenty years, son of a Spanish
and an Indian. Baltasar was called Hawk. His father had left some cuartejos, but the boy, head reel
with the aforementioned female, was given to spend up to saw the bottom of the bag, which certainly
could not be lasting as the five coins John Wait-in-God, aka the
Wandering Jew.

Baltasar godfather was the guardian of San Francisco, monk of many bells and circumstances who, while
professing great love to godson, took a three-hour sermon by learning the reason the young man brought
into troubles. The mayor claimed crime in the early days the person of the offender, but that
was Mariquita meditate, but hang your enemy why not recover the loss
had braid, or, more likely, that the influence of his reverence reached
to turn their noses at justice, the truth is that the authority is
not stressed Article of extradition.

Baltasar so distracted by his enforced monastic life, began to carve out a piece of wood and make it
the busts of the Virgin, the baby Jesus, the Three Kings, and finally, all accessories mystery
of Bethlehem. Although the figures were small, the whole was lucidísimo, and visitors to the
guardian propagated that it was an artistic wonder. Encouraged by the praise, Gavilan was devoted
to making life-size images, not only wood, but stone Huamanga, some of which exist in various churches
in Lima.

Most applauded the work of the artist was a painful, we do not know if it still has in San
Francisco.

The Viceroy Villagarcía, news of the merit of the sculptor, wanted personally convinced, and
one morning went to the cell converted into a workshop.

Your Excellency, declaring that the palace had fallen short in praise, chatted familiarly with
the artist, and he, encouraged by the friendliness of the viceroy, he said it bored him the closure,
which was purged fed its absence in three years of convent life,
and he longed wide field of freedom.

The Marquis scratched the tip of the ear, and replied that society needed relief, and that since
the bridge had given the scandal, it was necessary in the Bridge shows a work whose merit
hiciese forget the lack of man to admire the artist's genius.

And with that, Your Honor turned on his heel and took the road the
door.

Five months later, in 1738, we celebrated in Lima, with solemn pomp and lavish festivities placement
on the arch of the Bridge of the equestrian statue of Felipe V.

In the description of these parties have read, there are important
praise is taxed the artist.

Unfortunately for his glory, not his work survived, for in the famous earthquake 1746, the collapse
of a portion of the arch, the statue fell to the ground.

And here we enter a curious coincidence. Almost at once fell from his pedestal bust of the monarch,
in Lima recibióse news of the death of Felipe V as a result of lightning
stroke, which is as it were an earthquake in the body.

III

Of how a sculpture given to the sculptor's death

The Augustinian fathers brought forth, until shortly after 1824, the famous procession Thursday
Santo, which ended after midnight with no little commotion, fuss of old and escape girls. More than
twenty were the poles that made up the procession, and the first
one was a perfect picture of Death with his scythe and other necessities,
superb work of the artist Baltazar Gavilán.

The day gave the last Hawk to the skeleton hand went to his studio and many religious characters
of the country, earning enthusiastic and unanimous approval on good job performance. The artist reached
a new triumph.

Balthasar, from the time he lived in exile in San Francisco, was delivered with passion the cult of
Bacchus, and it is known that his best effigies carved in a complete
state of intoxication.

I recently read a great article about Edgar Poe and Alfred de Musset, entitled Alcoholism in literature.
Baltasar can give you a topic for another letter titled Alcoholism
in the fine arts.

Alcohol retempering the spirit and the body of the artist, was the
nymph Egeria, for speak.

Idea and strength, feeling and truth, everything was Baltasar at the bottom of a glass.

To celebrate the successful completion of the work entrusted to the Augustinians, and went Baltasar
with their friends over bocce ball and took a Turkish sovereign. Holding onto walls could, at
ten o'clock at night, returning to his studio, took flint link and straw, and lighting a tallow
candle threw clothes on the bed.

At midnight he woke up. The dim light gave off a strange reflection on the skeleton placed
at the foot of the bed. The grim reaper's scythe seemed built on Balthazar.

Appalled, and under the stultifying influence of alcohol, refused to recognize the work of his
hands. Gave horrible screams, and neighbors going understood, by the incoherence of his words,
the hallucination that was the victim.

The great Peruvian sculptor died insane on the same day that ended the skeleton, whose merit
art still speak with great appreciation the people in the early years of independence, attended
the procession of Holy Thursday.

OF ASTA AND REJON

I suppose, reader, that age you have spoken with contemporary Pezuela
Viceroy, and speaking to a daughter of Eve, courageous and manly,
I have heard this phrase: You are female horn and spear.

What if you've heard the phrase? Then there is the origin of it, just as I have been referred
by a descendant of the protagonist.

I

In one house in the Rue de Aparicio lived for years in 1760 Mrs. Dona Feliciana Chaves Mesia.

Dona
Feliciana was what was called a woman of her house and, despite being rich to point out the
sun carved silverware and bags of hard dollars, not thinking to primp,
but to increase its flow.

Owns a farm in nearby valleys the city and the bakery Serrano, was
in the backyard two vast warehouses which sold for more flour, sugar,
oil and other commodities for general consumption.

Those were the days! In terms of work our grandmothers were the devil's Roman and when a man married
in the joint was not only complementary rib the individual, but a
commercial partner that it saved the expense of dependents.

Dona Feliciana's husband three years ago that he went to Ica to establish a branch of Lima's house,
leaving the lady in front of many business operations, and as if God is pleased to put his
blessing on the Lima working in business terms hand was placed a
gain crazy.

But not everything is cakes and fancy bread in this vale of tears,
and when I was more confident Dona Feliciana that her husband thought
of nothing but win pelucones, received a letter Ica that the reported
anonymously, with semi-colons, of how the Lord Messiah had its chichisbeo,
and how he spent the cake and eat it with the subject, and that the
above was not worth an icicle not reached the bottom of the shoe of
Dona Feliciana, although it retained enough jamona palatable and not
worthy of the rogue of her husband hiciese squeamish.

He said the chicken of a tale: - Place egg and do not eat wheat, that's not me.

The anonymous bump up in the spirit of the lady, and got to think
about infidelity Mr Mesia, and so much buzzed in his soul the gadfly
of jealousy, he decided to take flight, the neck to drop you catch
him in the perjury and gatuperio.

But the case was to go in the time, to Ica spent many days and ran many dangers, and the holds
no could be closed or the mercy of a dependent, resolvióse to sell, commission charged a Spanish
called Vilches, who was her friend and her man to be trusted.

At that time the transactions were very speedy, as it is unusual that many formulas, and before
forty-eight hours Dona Feliciana saw come through the doors of his
house some bags of a thousand.

Ms. Vilches gave one in return for their activity and Travel freed from hindrances enlisted for
three days later.

II

Dona Feliciana That night began their accounts and decided that God
just daybreak, was deposit their money and goods in the house of a
merchant proverbial honesty.

But his jealous ruminations on the one hand, and secondly their calculations rentier, sleep
it away, and it had no small fortune.

It was about two o'clock, when cats and thieves, when he felt a slight,
cautious sound of footsteps in the backyard.

He listened and was convinced that a door that in his bedroom were
not applying what technicality of pharmacy, but of the children Caco,
was then called a sucker.

This experiment was open through burning a hole in the wood.

Doña Feliciana promptly jumped out of bed, and a corner of the room took a pole or rod stick
to which a pointed end adapted rejoncillo iron.

This was the weapon that used to take the field all landowners.

Thus forewarned, our heroine is laid in ambush behind the door. Just let the cup was expeditious
a big hole, he looked out a head.

Doña Feliciana, who lives without giving him rejoncillo stabbed in the neck.

The thief gave a cry of death, and his companions set foot on the wall. Then Mrs. he cried,
alborotóse the neighborhood, went the round, and found dying universal surprise the honest Vilches,
who sang background and colleagues reported their company.

III

All languages ??were Dona Feliciana courage, and in Lima did not talk about something else. Had there
been newspapers, have set chronic loud bass drum on the local.

The fame of his exploit had preceded Ica, where he arrived one morning, armed with spear and spear,
and doomed to her husband told her:

- A Lima, sir, and your home
if you want to do another little person in both I have done in the
de Vilches, and leave it as not to serve or radish seeds.

The Mesia trembled like quicksilver, he had saddled the mule and, without hesitation or mister,
obeyed precept.

Since then she wore pants in the house, and he was the most faithful of husbands stories that mention
the sacred and profane, as I knew it was the fleece in the first
trip where you get it madam.

Long story is to have a woman companion
of horn and spear.

MAYOR'S ARGUMENTS

I

It seems that one morning
he got Carlos III with mother's mood, and frankly that there was reason
embittering fed to the spirit of the monarch. His Majesty had dreamed
that the royal coffers ran the risk of being as God loves the souls,
ie clean, because his subjects Americas walked one, if not to provide
them slackers.

- Carrampempe! Well, I do not have to spend far as
Henry the Sufferer that, attaching be king, and the stiff, arrived
day had no solid thing to put under their noses, and pawned his overcoat
for the cook could flavor a garlic soup and a piece of boar smoking.
I called Don Jose Antonio.

And Don Jose Antonio de Areche, Council
of Indies and gentlemen of the distinguished Order Carlos III, soon
to appear before the King, and spoke with him at length about the
atrenzos the royal treasury. And following the conversation between
lord and vassal, we fell as rain in these kingdoms of Peru, in 1777
and the title of Inspector-General, a soap opera of fines.

The visitor,
soon come to Lima, he became convinced that the land was very rich
and the committee and tasty porridge. Item guessed it, without being
a witch, that were tame genius Peruleros and, therefore, likely to
bear much saddle his lordship would to throw us in tow. And thought
and deed, and without beating about the algórgoras or brujoleos, we
came to the lump and ordered taxes, and tight, and rates and what
not henpecked husband. God forgive me, but have that, in anticipation
of a wonderful town these days, was given a jolt of establish canine
contribution, not excepting the dog it San Roque, nor to Santo Domingo,
or the San Lazaro, or the Santa Margarita, as I gather, were saints
mutts fans.

But as the cord stretched out in the end, came the burst,
and burst and all hell broke tremendous. The visitor was stubborn,
did not relent and continued to follow an inch and a guitar pins others.
And there was that of zambomba and slaughter, at gallows, and jicarazo,
which ... Go! we take by special care and God bless you have not eaten
bread in that mess century. Finally the end, rogues taxes remained
and, grunting and grumbling, there's pay anyone taking law in their
neck, no ambitions put in intimate relationships with the executioner