 

In six months we were in this city, we repaired to the stillness, and as our Oyola captain was
informed of the Payaguá that are populated by about 100 miles of the Assumption, to the banks of
the Paraguay River, as he said cavities, and that was their main food hunting and fishing, and
also had carob flour that made eating with fish, and wine as sweet as our wine. Then he commanded
five ships loaded Oyola corn, and prevent of all things necessary, and give to the sailors as they needed
for the proper event the journey, the two months that he meditated. First I wanted to make war
with the Indians Payaguá, and then to the Caracas. Attending all the cavities with carefully
and submission, and they promised faithfully obey all orders from the captain spots.

Ordered so referred, and prevented the ship around, the captain chose 300 soldiers, better armed
and compounds, and left 100 in the city of the Assumption. River always sailing above, at
five miles we reached a pueblezuelo, whose Indians trageron meat, poultry, geese, sheep and
ostriches, and came to the last village of Carias, called Itatin, distant 80 miles of the Assumption,
Indians gave their supplies and other things that we helped.

CHAPTER XXIV.

Mount San Fernando and Peyaguás.

From there we got to the mountain called San Fernando, similar to that called Bogemberg [17],
and we Payaguá the Indians, 12 miles from Itatin: recibiéronnos peace, even feigned as learned
later, brought it home, and treated us with fish, meat, locust bean Pan or John, so we were
nine days. Ask the captain if he made them the nation knew Xarayes called, said they had heard,
who lived away in a rich province gold and silver, but no Indian had ever seen any of it: and
by relation of others, He added that they were as wise as Christians, and abounding in corn,
or cassava cazabí, mandubís, yams and other roots, of sheep or elk
meat, like animals donkeys whose feet are like a cow, the skin thickness;
of rabbits, deer, geese, chickens, and other things that we learned
after the fact.

Asked the captain to guide the Payaguá, to go into that province, and offered ready; and about
300 Indians ordered his captain to go with us and brought us food and other things. Published
our captain the journey in four days, sending it proveyesen all what is necessary for this company:
three ships broke, leaving 50 Christians in the two, with orders that were there. [18] Four months
waiting, and if not return at the end, retreated to the Assumption: we were waiting six months
without knowing anything about John Oyola, and lack the supplies,
it was necessary to return to Domingo de Irala, who had been by our
captain, to the city of Assumption, as our captain had ordered.

CHAPTER XXV.

Juan Oyola comes to the land of the Naperús and Samocosis, and is dead to the back with all Christians.

Juan
Party Oyola with 300 Spanish and 300 Indians, came to the Naperús, friends and allies of Payaguá,
which remained hunting and fishing. It populous nation, and she took some Oyola Indians for
guides, because I had to walk between several nations, as did full of jobs and lack of all: many
resisted him with weapons, and killed half the people. Samocosis the Indians came, and could
not go forward, and leaving three Spanish patients with these Indians, set out the work, he turned
with all his family. John descanzo Oyola with his people, weary of the road, three days in Naper,
and although it came good, understood Indians did not bring ammunition and weapons, which
covered the Naperús and Payaguá, to kill, and they got it: for having left Naper, Christians
Oyola with to go to the Payaguá, being almost in the middle of the road on them suddenly gave
great multitude of these two nations, (hidden in the forest meant for this betrayal, where
had to pass), and as rabid dogs killed the captain and his soldiers,
healthy and patients without escape.

CHAPTER XXVI.

Seeing death of his captain, the Spanish elected in his place Domingo Martinez de Irala.

We knew the treachery of Payaguá, by an Indian [19] who had been slave Oyola, the which the enemy
fled to know the language, but did not give him full credit, although
it had all that had happened, from the beginning to the end of the
set pitiful.

So we were a year in the city of Assumption, unaware of our people other than the above, and what the
captain had Carios Irala, and be publicly known that Payaguá and Naperús he had died. But for
sure, we wanted to hear from the mouth of one of the Payaguá.

Two months later, some cavities comprises two Payaguá, and trageron the captain, and asking if
they had helped to kill our men, denied it, saying that even our captain had not returned
to his own province.

Gave them to torture, and confessed the truth, and what is mentioned
in chapter history, sending them to burn the captain tied to a suit,
surrounded by a large fire.

Then we choose as captain to said Irala, until the King ordered otherwise, for had always been
fair and kind, especially with the soldiers.

CHAPTER XXVII.

Captain prison places in the Assumption, going to the Timbúes and casualties is: let Antonio
de Mendoza in Corpus Christi, and sails to Buenos Aires.

He then Captain provide four brigs, and 150 Spanish Village, sailing down Paraguay and Parana
rivers. The second, leaving the other people in the Assumption, with orders to join the 150 who
were in Thimphu, and to the 160 of the ships of Buenos Aires, came to the Timbúes, or Good Hope, and
Fort Corpus Christi, where our people had been, but we found the land without Indians, because
the Captain Francisco Ruiz, Juan Galan, presbyter, Juan Hernandez, clerk, they were like governors,
after several treatment infidels and evil, had killed the chief of the Timbúes and other Indians,
and the rest is fled, of whom we had received many benefits. So sad knowing evil, we are amazed,
and our captain entrusted to Antonio de Mendoza Fort Corpus Christi, leaving 120 men and supplies,
in order to guard against the Indians, being always alert with good guards, and if the Indians
should come to peace, to treat them with love, making few attentions were possible, and avoiding
all who attempt to harm them, and them Christians, and looking each other with the utmost diligence.
Thus returned to ship, carrying get to Francisco Ruiz, Juan Galan and Hernandez, author of the infamous
death of the Indians. When they were to sail, was a principal Indian Thimphu, great friend of
the Christians, was compelled to follow his men, by his wife, children, relatives and family, which
permission to advise the captain who did not leave there any Christian,
for all the people of war of the province was settled or to kill them,
or out of the land.

The captain replied he would return soon, and people leaving enough
to resist the Indians, and begged it came, the Christians, with his
wife, children and families, and they promised, and leaving Corpus
Christi, embarked the captain.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

Timbúes treacherously kill 50 Spanish: forsake the other the strength of Corpus Christi, and shipped
to Buenos Aires.

After eight days, more or less, the chief sent his brother, but treacherous, treacherously,
asking our captain Mendoza six soldiers with rifles and other weapons, to spend to us with
all their wealth and family to live forever. Pondered the fear that had at the Thimphu, and the
lack of security to come without this relief, offered, as a friend request all our convenience,
bring many provisions, and an abundance of other things. Persuaded the captain, not only gave
him 6, but 50 well-armed Spanish musketeers, charging that go with restraint, caution and
concern, to get rid of the damage they could cause the Indians who were half a league from us.
The 50 Spanish arrived in front of their houses, Timbúes were greeted with the peace of Judas:
ofreciéronles fishing and hunting, and to start eating, they were about friends and enemies,
that looked to others that had been hidden at home, with such fury and haste, that it is a
boy named Caldera escaped from their hands, none was saved.

And by continuing to rage, we envistieron 10.000, and stood upon the strong fourteen calendar
days, with intent to destroy us, but God mercifully stopped him. Traian long spears, swords
they had taken to the Christians killed by spikes, and fought with them and other weapons, night and
day, for take the fort, but could not.

After fourteen days, they gave the last envestida, stubborn throwing all his strength, and set fire
to the houses. Out came the captain Antonio de Mendoza with a sword by a door in which the
Indians had set his helmet, well hidden, and just gave it when he crossed Indians with spears, falling
to a standstill. God wanted them to food over Indians, and could not stay over, lifted the siege
and were thus rested, and more with two launches that sent our captain of Buenos Aires, with
provisions and ammunition, so that we could hold until we come back, which caused us great joy.
But it was greater sadness that the death of Christians instilled
in the newcomers, and not finding another way to restore, by mutual
agreement we decided to abandon Corpus Christi, and become to Buenos
Aires, as egecutamos with all people.

Scared our arrival the captain, and vehemently was overwhelmed by
the ruin of the people, not knowing he would do, for lacking the other
provisions and the need for any business.

CHAPTER XXIX.

A ship arrives in Spain with people to the island of Santa Catalina, where they go to ours in a boat.

Fifteen days had were in Buenos Aires, there fell a caravel to Spain, and warned us Santa Catalina
to be in a ship with 200 men, who came by Captain Alonso Cabrera. Al make available about our
captain ordered another small ship that was to Brazil, to Santa Catalina,
[20] which was about 300 miles from Buenos Aires.

Posted by captain Gonzalo de Mendoza, with orders if we find them in Santa Catalina, loaded
with rice, cassava and other supplies that his sight. Asked the captain Gonzalo de Mendoza
7 soldiers, who could be trusted, and chose 6 Spanish, and to me and 20 others to join us.

Sailed a month, and we arrived at Santa Catalina, where he was the ship we were looking, with Captain
Alonso Cabrera and his people, with which we rejoice much, and spent two months with it. As we
loaded our ship with rice, manioc and corn, and left with both ships and the captain and his
soldiers Cabrera Alonso de Santa Catalina, sailing to Buenos Aires; and lies just 20 miles from
the city, the eve of All Saints, in the Paraná River, asked sailors to each other, if they were
already in the river Paraná. Ours said that if, and they said the other ship still missing 20
leagues: we already know that when many ships make a journey together, as the sun sets each pilot
asked the other how much has sailed?; With what wind is to sail at night, not to depart? The
Paraná River is 30 miles Guazú wide to the gulf or mouth, which run 50 continuous miles to the port
of San Gabriel, which has only 18 miles wide. Our pilot told the other ship if I wanted to follow,
to which he replied that it was almost dark, and wanted to sit in
the sea to the sun, and not come ashore in the night without storm.

This pilot trial had more than we in government the ship, as stated
after the incident, and yet we continued his journey, leaving there.

CHAPTER XXX.

Our ship sinks, leaving some to land in San Gabriel, and then go to Buenos Aires and to the
Assumption.

Evening sail to near midnight, an hour before the sun rose so high storm, although we saw land
to a league or more, we could not take it, or drop anchor, or find another choice but to vote, and
imploring the divine mercy. Then at same time took our ship to pieces, and drowned 15 Spanish,
that we could never find corpse any, and 6 Indians. Others, clinging to some wood, were saved by
swimming: I went out with 5 partners tree clinging to the ship. We were on the ground naked
and without food, having lost everything, and having to walk 50 miles
by land, we were obliged to keep rootlet and other fruits in the field
to the port of San Gabriel, where he had come 30 days before the other
ship with Cabrera.

The General, who understood our misfortune, he was very sad with theirs, and persuading all had
perished, he had to say some masses for our souls.

Lleváronnos to Buenos Aires, and General indicted the captain and pilot, and wanted to hang him,
but by great intercession, was only sentenced to four years to a brig.

All together in Buenos Aires, sent the General to dispatch the launches, and they all the soldiers
had burned the other ships, and store iron.

We sailed over the Paraná River above, and we reached the city of the Assumption, where he
waited two years the King's orders.

CHAPTER XXXI.

Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca arrived in Spain to Santa Catalina, and thence to the Assumption with
300 Spanish, and is received by the Governor.

This being the case, came from Spain Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca, Governor, appointed by King,
with 400 men and 30 horses, four ships, two majors and two caravels. [21]

Had brought these ships to Brazil and Santa Catalina, seeking food supplies, from where he
sent two caravels, the Adelantado, eight miles from the port, to search for food, but they came
as sturdy storm, which killed at sea broken, saving people.

Why would not the Come back to embark before the ships attempted
to break and walk on land, and came to the Assumption with 300 men,
400 who had embarked; [22] because the others had died of anger and
disease.

Eight months it took to walk 300 leagues out there, from the city of the Assumption to the
island of Santa Catalina: [23] and therefore begged to Sunday Alvar
Nuñez Irala will hand over the government and the people obey him,
to which they were ready, stating the title of Adelantado, or other
document granting her obvious King this power, which could not get
the whole community.

[24] Only the priests, and one or the other captain said it well: but what will be coming forward is
aware of what happened this progress.

CHAPTER XXXII.

Alvar Nuñez reviews: send ships up the river and the Indians Chaneses Cambal, to whose leader
was hanged.

Alvar Nuñez sought the friendship of Irala, and actually swore at each other fraternal union
and faith; Irala being, to the authority before sending the people. Alvar Nuñez spent sample
and were 800 men found that the entire number of egército, and then sent nine brigs make available
to climb, as soon as they could, the upstream, and before finishing his readiness, sent three ahead
with 115 soldiers, with orders to go farther as they could, and find that they had Indian corn.

Antony
appointed as captain Diego Grovenor and Tabellino. They first came to the nation of the Samocosis,
which had corn and other roots cazave alike, and a fruit hazelnuts,
called Mandubia, with fishing and hunting.

The Indians go naked, and bring on the lips a blue pebble, as a given:
the Indian, waist to knee walk covered.

Here we left the ships with enough care, and entered through his
province, walking four days until we got to his people, which played
to 300 Carios brave.

State Informámonos and quality of the whole province, and we returned to the ships, and down
the river Paraná, we to the province of Cambal, where we find letters of Alvar Nuñez, which
sent us hanging the chief, whose name was Aracaré [25] as egecutó. Action which gave cause to a later
sad war: bringing down the river we went back to the Assumption.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

Taber and decay arms against the Christians, and Taber is defeated.

After our Governor asked the chief of the Indians, who lived in the Assumption, 2.000 Indians go
up the river with the Christians against Taber. Indians were ready to this, and to all that we wanted,
coming with gifts and services, but advised the Governor mind what
he undertook, before leaving, because the whole province of Taber
and Carios regurgitation were on, they joined forces to take cruel
revenge on the Christians, by the Aracaré death, he was the brother
of Taber.

And no big risk to enter, left for the company then Governor, but decided to send to Irala with
400 Christians and 2.000 Indians against Taber and Carias, for out of the land or destroy them.
Irala left with the Army of the Assumption, and sighted the enemy of peace to Taber required
under the orders of the King: but the chief was so angry, I never wanted to accept treatment.
Had a egército numbers, and had fortified their villages with palisades around in three orders,
with large, deep holes, which had learned our care and diligence.

Three days it took to achieve peace, and report the enemy, and the
fourth morning, three hours before sunrise, seeing that they were
more stubborn, we impetuously the city and surrender, as there are
killing, and capturing many Indian served us well later.

Killed 16 Christians in this battle, and wounded and clubbed another.

Killed many of our Indians, and Cambal, 3.000. A little Taber time of peace came with his family,
asking forgiveness, and pleading that we returned their wives and
children, promising obedience to itself and its people: and the captain
gave him what they asked for, according to the order of the King.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

Assumption is in prison, sail up the Paraguay River, arriving at Mount
San Fernando, and to the Payaguá, Guajarapos and Sococies.

Confirmed peace, we returned to the Paraguay River Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca, who reported our good fortune,
determined to run the company he had thought of before. Taber asked 2.000 Indian allies, and
to the Carias, that would provide the launches, and so executed promptly. Chose 500 Christians,
800 who had, leaving 300 in the Assumption, and as captain of them, Juan de Salazar de Espinosa.

We went up the Paraguay River with 500 Christians [26] and 2.000 Indians had the Carians 83
canoes, we 9 brigs, and in each were two horses, until we the mountain of San Fernando. For
about 100 miles went by land, and embarked, and proceeded the journey to the Payaguá, who fled
with their wives and children, before burning their homes. We traveled 100 miles without finding
any Indian town: and finally, we came to the Indians Guajarapos,
which are kept fishing and hunting, and live in a province 100 miles
long; have such a large number of canoes, you can not say.

Indian women walk covered from the waist to the knee and because he would not listen to our talks,
we call Sococies to another nation, given us peace, and was 90 miles
from the Guajarapos. Each of these Sococies own particular lives in
home with his wife and children. The Indians bring a wooden ball outstanding
ears. The Indian, lips blue glass, a finger, are beautiful, and walk
naked. They have plenty of maize, cassava, Mandubia, sweet potatoes,
fish and game, and populous nation.

Advance sought the nation's report
of the Car Care, and Cavities: but the Indians knew nothing of that,
and in this they said they were with them, being a lie