 Then I did
not know the word sublime, but seeing our commander realized that all languages ??must have a
beautiful word to express that greatness of soul that I thought rarely favor granted by God
to man miserable.

Meanwhile, many of the guns had ceased firing, because half of the people was out of action. Perhaps
I had not set in this circumstance, if having gone camera, driven by my curiosity, I did not feel
a terrible accent voice said to me "Gabrielillo, here!"

Marcial called me: I went quickly, and found him committed to serve
one of the guns had run out of people.

A bullet had taken a Middle man tipped his wooden leg, which made
him say:

"If I bring the flesh and blood ..."

Two seamen lay dead beside him, a third badly wounded, tried to follow
serving piece.

"Compadre - Marcial said - because you can not even light a cigarette."

Botafuegos tore the hands of the wounded and handed it to me saying:

"Here,
Gabrielillo, if you're scared, go to the water."

So saying, he loaded the gun with all the haste he could, helped a boy who was almost unharmed,
the primed and aimed, both cried 'fire', approached the wick, and cannon fire.

Operation was repeated for the second and third time, and the roar
of the cannon, shot by me echoed in an extraordinary way in my soul.

The considerable, not a spectator, but actor decided in such a great tragedy, for a moment dispelled
the fear, and I felt great impetus, at least with the firm resolve of pretending. Since then
I knew that heroism is almost always a form of honor.

Marcial and others looked at me: it was necessary to make me worthy of his attention.

"Ah - I said to myself with pride -.

If my mistress could see me now ... How brave am firing guns like
a man ... The least I sent the other two dozen world English '.

But these noble thoughts occupied me very little time because Marcial, whose weary nature began
to surrender after his effort, break forward, wiped the blood that
flowed plenty of his head, closed his eyes, his arms extended in dismay,
and said:

"I can not anymore: I was up the powder on the poop (the
head).

Gabriel, bring me water. "

I ran to fetch water, and when I brought, he drank eagerly. Seemed to be taking with this new forces:
we would follow, when a crash left us with no movement. The mainmast of notch cut short by,
fell on the waist, and behind it the mizzen. The vessel was filled of debris and clutter was
awful.

Fortunately I was in recess and without more than a slight head wound, which, although I was
stunned at first, did not stop me away bits of sail and ropes that had fallen about me. The
sailors and soldiers struggled to dislodge cover such a huge mass of bodies useless, and since
then only the low-battery artillery fire held.

I left as I could, I searched for Martial found him not, and having my eyes fixed on the quarterdeck,
I noticed that the commander was not there.

Astillazo seriously injured in a head, had fallen lich, and two sailors
went about to transfer to the camera.

Also ran away, and then a town of shrapnel struck me on the shoulder, which startled me extremely,
believing my wound was mortal and was to the last breath. My embarrassment did not stop me
enter the chamber, where for all the blood pouring from my wound me weak, leaving for a moment
vanished.

At the passenger lethargy, kept hearing the roar of the guns of the
second and third battery, and then a voice saying angrily:

'Approach!

... Pikes! ... Axes! "

After the confusion was so great that I could not distinguish what belonged to human voices in such
a huge concert. But I do not know how, without leaving that dream state, I I charge that it
was believed all was lost, and that the officers were assembled in the camera to arrange the
surrender, and I can assure you that if it was invented by my imagination, so upset, echoed in
the waist a voice saying: "The Trinity is not surrender!". Of was fixed voice Marcial, if someone
actually said that.

I was awake, and saw my love thrown over a sofa for the camera head buried in his hands in a gesture
of despair and without caring for his wound.

I approached him, and the wretched old man found no better way to express his grief that embracing
paternally, as if we were both near death. He, at least, I think was considered near death of
pure sorrow, because his injury was not minor. I consoled him as best I could, saying that
if no action had been won, not because I left English enough to kill my small cannon, and added
that we would be lucky again; childish reasons that calmed his agitation.

Going

outside to fetch water for my master, I witnessed the act of lowering
the flag, yet floating in the crab, one of the few remaining aloft
with the trunk were mizzen standing.

That glorious canvas, and pierced by a thousand parts, a sign of
our honor, which gathered under its folds all combatants, down from
the mast to be lifted no more.

The idea shot of pride, a spirit tried to succumb to superior force, can not find more perfect image
to represent the human eyes than those oriflamme that folds and disappears as a setting sun. On
that afternoon, sad, touching at the end of his career at the moment we surrender our flag
illuminated with last ray.

The firing ceased and the British entered the boat up.

-XII-

When the spirit, resting from the turmoil of battle, had time to give way to compassion, Cold terror
produced by the sight of such great slaughter, was presented to the eyes of those we were living
the scene of the ship in all its horrific glory. Until then tempers had not addressed rather
than the defense, but when the firing ceased, they could see the
great destruction of the town, which give entry into the water by
his thousand faults, plunged, threatening to engulf all, living and
dead, at the bottom of the sea.

He just entered the English, a cry echoed unanimously handed down
by our marine:

"At the bombs!"

All we could we go to them and work with ardor, but those imperfect machines evicting a much
smaller amount of water than entered. Of Suddenly a cry, even more terrible than the last,
filled us with horror. I said that the wounded had carried the last cockpit, rather than by
being under the waterline, free from the action of the bullets. The water quickly invaded that
place, and some marine peered through the hatch crying

"To drown
the wounded!"

Most of the crew hesitated whether to continue evacuating the water and to the rescue of those
bastards, and I do not know what had become of them if the people of an English ship had not come
to our aid. These not only transported the wounded to the third and the second battery, but also
put hands to the pumps, while his carpenters tried to repair some
of the failures of the hull.

Dog-tired, and judging that Don Alonso might need me, I went to the camera. Then I saw some
English occupied in putting the British flag at the stern of the Holy Trinity. As I expect
that the kind reader to forgive me you record my impressions, I will say that what made me think
a little. I always had represented England as true pirates and highwaymen of the seas, adventurous
gentezuela nation was not living of loitering.

When I saw the pride with which they raised their flag, greeting him with cheers cheers, when I
realized the joy and satisfaction that caused them to have captured the largest and most glorious
boat until then sailed the seas, I thought that they too have their beloved homeland, which
it would have entrusted the defense of their honor, I thought that
in that land, for me mysterious, called England, had to exist, as
in Spain, many honest people, paternal king, and mothers, daughters,
wives, sisters brave marine which, anxiously awaiting his return,
pray to God to grant them victory.

In the camera I found my Lord calmer.

The British officers who had come there trying to ours with delicate courtesy, and as I understood
they wanted the injured transship to any enemy ship.

One of those officers came to my master as if to recognize, and greeted
him in Spanish fairly correct, reminding an old friendship.

Answered D. Alonso to their fineness with gravity, and then he wanted to learn the details of the
battle.

"But what happened to the reservation? Gravina What have you done? - Gravina asked my master
has retired .-- some ships - said the Englishman.

- In the forefront
only came to our aid the Ray and Neptune.

- The four French-Trouin
Duguay, Mont-Blanc, Scipio and Formidable, are the only have not taken
action.

- But Gravina, Gravina, Gravina what is? - Insisted my master.

-
Had been withdrawn in the Prince of Asturias, but as it was given
chase, I do not know if there will come Cadiz.

- And the San Ildefonso?

-
Has been arrested .-- And the Santa Ana?

- It has also been arrested
.-- By God! - Said D. Alonso could not hide his anger -.

I bet that has not been arrested on Nepomuceno.

- Also has been .-- Oh, are you sure? What Churruca?

- Death - English replied sadly.

- Oh! He is dead! He died Churruca! - Cried my love with anguished
perplexity -.

But Bahama will be saved, will be returned unharmed Bahama Cadiz.

-
It has also been arrested .-- Too!

And Galiano? Galiano is a hero and a sage.

- Yes - said somberly in English - but also dead.

- What is Mountaineer? What has become of Alcedo?

- Alcedo ... has died. "

My master could not repress the expression of grief, and as the elderly
amenguaba in his own presence of mind of those terrible times, had
to make small decline in shedding a few tears, sad gift to his teammates.

It is improper to cry in great souls, but rather indicates the fruitful partnership of the
delicacy of feeling with strength of character. My master wept as a man, having done their
duty as a sailor, but recovering from this depression, and seeking
some reason to be returned English grief this caused him, said:

"But
you will not have suffered less than ourselves.

Our enemies have had losses consideration.

- A mostly irreparable - so said English heartbreak like D. Alonso -.

We lost the first of our sailors, the bravest of the brave, the heroic, the divine, the sublime
Admiral Nelson. "

And with so little integrity as my master, the British officer was not careful to hide his
immense penalty: covered his face with his hands and wept, with all the frankness of true expressive
pain, boss, protector and friend.

Nelson, mortally wounded in the middle of combat, as I later learned,
by a bullet that pierced his chest and looked at the spine, said Captain
Hardy: "It's over, the order to have succeeded.

" His agony was prolonged until nightfall, lost none the details of combat, or died in military
genius and a sailor, but when the last fleeting pulse of life vanished out of his body hurt. Haunted
by horrific pain, he continued to issue orders, learning the movements of both teams, and when it was
told of his triumph, he exclaimed: "Blessed be God, I have done my duty."

Fifteen minutes after the first marine expiring century.

Will pardon the digression. The reader will be surprised that we did not know the fate of many
ships of the combined squad. Nothing more natural than our ignorance, because of the disproportionate
length of the line of battle, and the system of partial struggles adopted by the British. Their
ships had mingled with ours, and as the race was a gunshot, the we beat the enemy ship hid
the view of the rest of the squad, plus the smoke very thick as we could not see was not in
place soon.

In the evening, and when even the shelling had not stopped, we distinguished some ships, passing
long as a ghost, a half-masting, others completely treeless. The haze, smoke, the same stunning
overhead, prevented us from distinguishing whether they were Spanish or enemies, and when the light
of a distant flash lit a panorama that stretches fearful we felt that the fight was still
bitterness among isolated groups of ships, that others ran without concert or direction, carried
by the storm, and that some of us English was being towed by another heading south.

Night came, and with it increased the gravity and horror of our situation.

It seemed that Nature had to be favorable after so many misfortunes, but on the contrary, elements
desencadenáronse furiously, as if Heaven was not yet thought enough large number of our misfortunes.
Desatose a tough time, and wind and water deeply shaken, struck the ship, unable to maneuver,
fluctuating at the mercy of the waves. The swings were so strong that it was hard work, which,
coupled with the fatigue of crew, our state worsened by the hour. An English ship, which later
I was Prince called, he tried to tow the Trinity, but their efforts were futile, and had to away
for fear of a crash, it would have been fatal to both vessels.

Meanwhile it was not possible to take any food, and I was starving,
because others indifferent to everything that was not the danger,
just took care of something so important.

I dared not ask for a piece of bread for fear of seeming importunate,
and at the same time without shame I confess, my searching observation
led to all the sites I gathered that there could be provisions in
the mouth.

Pressed by necessity, I ventured to make a visit to the storerooms
of the cake, and what was my surprise when I saw that Marcial was
there racked his stomach first thing that came to hand?

The little old man was wounded seriously, and though a bullet had been the right foot, as this
was not anything other than the tip of the wooden leg, the body of
Marcial just had a little mishap so lame.

"Here, Gabrielillo - I said, filling the heart of cookies -: ship does not sail without ballast."

Then tiptoe a bottle and drank with delight.

We left the locker, and saw that we were not ourselves who visited
that place, for all indicated that a messy looting had occurred there
moments earlier.

Repaired my strength, I could think of something to serve, drawing
his bombs or helping the carpenters.

Laboriously been amended a few faults with the help of the British who kept everything, and as
I finally understood, did not lose sight of some of our sailors, fearing that rioting, damming
the ship, in which the enemy displayed more suspicion that sense, it was necessary to have lost
his mind to try to dam a ship in such a state. This is for casacones went everywhere and did
not lose movement whatsoever.

Late at night, and found myself transfixed from the cold, abandoned housing, which could hardly
have me, and also ran the risk of being snatched by a heavy sea, and retired to the camera. My first
intention was to sleep a little, but who slept that night?

In the chamber all was confusion, as in the waist. Those who are well attended to the wounded,
and these, disturbed both by their pains and ship motion, which prevented them from all rest,
offered so sad looking, which light could not be delivered to the rest. On one side of the
chamber lay, covered with the national flag, the dead officers. Amid such desolation, at the
sight of so much pain, had in those bodies I do not know what an enviable: they rested alone
on board the Trinidad, and everything was alien to them, fatigue
and sorrow, the shame of defeat and physical ailments.

The flag will served as a pall seemed to illustrate that put them outside the sphere of responsibility,
decrease and despair that we all are. Nothing will affect the danger to the ship, because
it was no longer his coffin.

The officers killed were: D. Juan Cisniega, lieutenant, which had no relationship Despite my love
of the identity of name; D. Joaquín de Salas and D. Juan Matute, also Lieutenant, Army Lt.
Col. D. José Graullé, Lieutenant Frigate Uriah and midshipman Don Antonio de Bobadilla. The sailors
and soldiers dead, whose warrantless corpses lay in the batteries
and cover amounted to a terrible amount of four.

I will never forget the time that those bodies were thrown overboard by order of English officer
guarding the ship. Verificose the sad ceremony at dawn 22, at which time the storm that raged
exprofeso seems to increase struck fear of such scene. On deck removed the bodies of the officers,
the priest recited a prayer for all hurry, because he was not beating opportunity drawings,
and immediately proceeded to the ceremony. Wrapped in the flag, with a bullet attached to the
feet, were thrown into the sea without this, that ordinarily would have occurred in all sorrow
and dismay, then moved him those who witnessed it.

As events were the spirits of misfortune that the spectacle of death was little they Unless indifferent!
The funeral of the sea are sadder than those of the earth. There is grave a corpse, and there
is: people who are interested know that there is an area of ??land where there are those remains,
and can mark them with a slab, with a cross or a stone. But in the sea ... bodies are thrown
into the moving immensity, and it seems that no longer exist at the time of fall, the imagination
can not follow them on their journey to the deep abyss and is difficult to assume that they
are still somewhere at the bottom of the ocean. These reflections I was watching disappeared
the bodies of those illustrious warriors, one day before full of
life and glory of their homeland and charm of their families.

The dead sailors were thrown with less ceremony: Ordinance mandates that they wrap the coy [5], but
this time there was no time for fun to meet the Ordinance. Some are shrouded as it is sent, but
most were thrown into the sea without no dress and no bullet to the foot, for the simple reason that
it had for all. Were four, soon, in order to end soon burial operation was must put out to work
every able-bodied men on board had to dispatch sooner. Very reluctantly I had to give me my sad
cooperation service and Some bodies fell into the sea dropped from the side by my hand, put
the aid of other more vigorous.

Then came a fact, a coincidence that I did a lot of terror. A body horribly disfigured, was caught
between two sailors, and when you lift up, some of the bystanders were allowed coarse jokes,
which at all times have been advances, and in that infamous moment. I do not know why the body
of that unfortunate was the only thing they moved brazen lose respect for death, saying: "You've
already paid all together ...; will not act up "and other obscenities of the sort. That made
me angry, but My anger was changed into astonishment and indescribable feeling, a mixture of
respect, worth and fear when watching intently factions mutilated the corpse, I recognized him
as my uncle ... I closed my eyes in horror, and I did not open until the violent splashing I indicated
that water was gone forever to the human eye.

The man had been very bad for me, very bad for your sister, but it was my close relative, My mother's
brother, the blood running through my veins was his blood, and that inner voice urges us to be
kind to the faults of our own, could not remain silent after of the
scene that passed before my eyes. At the same time, I was able to
recognize in the face my uncle's bloodstained some facial features
of the face of my mother, and this increased my affliction. At that
time I remembered I had been a criminal, or less than the cruelty
he used me for my unfortunate childhood. I assure you, and no doubt
to say this, even in praise of mine, who forgave him with all my heart
and elevates thought to God, asking Him to forgive all your sins.

Later
I learned that he had acted heroically in battle, but why reach the
sympathy of his colleagues, who was known as the most wicked of men,
had no for him a word of affection or sympathy, even at the supreme
moment when all missing forgiven, because it is supposed to realizing
their criminal acts before God