 

However useful that men are skilled, and very suitable for all, I can not deny that rarely become
absolutely necessary, notably when they are on top of a man of strong will and irresistible
power whom they serve and whose whim and markets are as posted. Don Andrés Rubio had, so to
speak, made to Don Paco, and so as he had done could be undone. There would be missing for this
person or persons to replace Don Paco, dividing their jobs, if one was not enough to fill them all with
same efficiency and skill.

Don Paco was fully aware of what was and what to expect and fear still don Andrew, so that much
gratitude as sighted prudence, he served with the highest zeal and loyalty and always tried to
please. Don Paco, however, had misgivings about losing its elevated position and enviable Privanza.
In addition to its rare credit, was holding on to very good knockers.

II

Widower for over twenty years, had a daughter of twenty, who had
been the real girl all over the place, and was then the most elegant
lady, and prettier than empingorotada it had, culminating and glowing
by age, by her beauty and her aristocratic position, as the sun in
the meridian.

It had been ten years since she had succeeded in capturing the will of the people most illustrious
knight, Don Alvaro Roldan of primogeniture, with whom who had married and had a whopping seven
robust and flowering stems between sons and daughters.

This Don Alvaro was alive with all the apparatus and the pomp that usually display the nobles
locals. His house was the best there was in Villalegre, with a front door adorned from one
side to another, berroqueña magnificent stone columns, fluted and
capitals Corinthians.

On the door was the coat of arms, stone well, which included lions and dogs, boilers, ships
and castles and lots of monsters and other symbolic objects that the most useful knowledge
in the science of heraldry gave clear testimony of their age and sublimity of his ancestry.

They
said the gossips, and places are always there, that Don Alvaro was late, which had mortgaged some
of its best properties and should be enough money, but I guess the slanderous gossip, because
he lived as if nothing hurt. He served many servants, constant incoming and outgoing ones and others,
and as was aficionadísimo hunting, not missing a pack of hounds,
and beagle hounds, working hunters and two black guns, they used accompany
him.

In the house was the garden, and also an enormous yard, where, for more pleasure and glory, not locked
only chickens and turkeys, but in remote enclosures, deer and brought living in Sierra Morena,
and finally, tied to strong iron chain, fearing mischief and atrocities, a huge ape that Morocco
had sent a captain of infantry, cousin Mr.
