 Purpose
of selflessness for the sake of his family, never did his thinking. It simply said and spontaneously
that it was necessary at home, who was working there he was, never dreaming never more painful than
their efforts to do so could be called self-denial or sacrifice, even duty: I would because,
because it was the older brother, the only man in the house. In their calculations did not come
to anything Tirso. If not, who would?

The misery caused changes in the material life of Pepe, was initially only sensitive: at first, it
came down to the few books he had bought were going about rolling on the dinner table to his room until
he's saved by not seeing them. Apparently, to hide those books was erased in the family the idea
that Pepe had to resign the race: Mrs. Manuela, who was good, but little notice, she felt some bitterness,
resolution Your child's sad, because it sure sign of great deprivation: - "The poor have had to
leave school "- he said, unable to further all that this phrase was wrapped. In the event Leocadia
mortified him more than his mother, but otherwise. While Pepe was limited to exchange the class
about the fate of the Senate, said: - "My brother has employed" - and tone in which she spoke
discovered some self satisfied. The real disappointment I had as a result of the proposition
Millan, Pepe came concealer in print: that which his brother won a bitterly impressed wages, partly
because of what it meant such determination, and even more wounded vanity. His great fear was that Pepe
got to get blouse to work, as if this detail was wrapped all the ruin of the house. Compromised
with poverty, misery, yet, but it embarrassing, not aware of neighbor humiliations they did not
care. The biggest regret was for Don José. The three-year Pepe extended right, had become accustomed
to thinking in education and in an effort very expensive, but for him, full of charm. The humble
employee who spent his life on the run mata, from office to office, from center to center,
without support or valimiento, had acquired such habits of order and economy, which would be
of possible to run this child, and give to your liking, as it gave no other. The poor old man would
not be reached by what means it; but through the eyes of the imagination he saw the boy and wearing
the white robes vuelillos, with the cap set, the chest plate and seated on a high-backed chair,
listening reports of lawyers who, speaking to him, speak with profound respect ... and suddenly
came the discount, losses, arrears, retirement, reducing the future judge placed by the clerk to
please a friend, and at the mercy of those who had influence to remove any day the benefit of another
square. The resolution adopted by Pepe to go to work with Millan, painfully wounded spirits
of Don José, but it would have been hard to determine Nick print him more, if the pain of seeing her
child taken to that end, or pride to regard as strong in adversity. The tender tears soon dried
their eyes: the conceit is not erased from the soul.

The hardest to resist unfortunately, was the biggest loser with it: as Pepe, which and gave
no importance to the sacrifice, not delivered either to the quiet
resignation and sad, whose silence suffocates the pain without mitigation.

His character varied somewhat, but he knew it, but did not undergo a real transformation. The
fibers of his heart were such that no bastard could be stricken by misfortune, as they had
not changed not cherished by fortune. That mocking disbelief that always welcomed as could not
clarify reasoning, increased and became more bitter, and his grace to censure claimed acrimony,
took his jokes plaintively said in jest, but the propensity was funny always dominating on his
lips, ready to ridicule their ideas and hobbies as you pointed worthy of reproach. Setbacks not
removed his enthusiasm for what he loved, or exacerbated skepticism, but, convinced that the
conditions of life had changed for complete it, acquired a serenity that contrasts with the
few years, gave his words a bitter and melancholy. Even the most energetic satire sadly seemed
to spring from her mouth.

After the first few weeks of this new existence, divided between the library Senate, where his job
was to give books to turn the race he wanted, and tasks of printing,
where under the supervision of Miller was becoming more and more useful,
began experience some rest that he understood not to be definitive,
but he was flattered to see it reflected in the house.

His life and journeyman clerk gave him a handful of dollars, with which had to go shopping
and just as often to the pharmacy. Of law not spoke again to continue the race was a dream,
and yet, having had to give it was the sorrow of the whole family. Everyone felt it his way:
Dona Manuela :--«¡ not say but my son, how it works! "The father did not attempt to confess even
loudly in front of people: - "He will be in print." Leocadia, with undisguised disgust to what
his brother was a worker, spoke of the destination or use, and when he saw him again home, instinctively
looked at his hands, afraid to bring them some dirty signal your honorable work. I could not
avoid: the vanity of Madrid who was supposed to cover silk frills lack of linen, and prefers
the ornament of the room to care of the bedroom.

Pepe also participated in some way, that feeling which tends to hide the neighbor his own misery.
There was a person who did not had the courage to admit that working in Millán printing, and that
person was his girlfriend, Miss Car, as he called Leocadia. Pepe Paz had made clear to the situation
of his family that his father was an old modest tax official, that he had to abandon the race
due to lack of resources to follow, subject to employment granted
almost by charity, but not passed on: nothing told the press, support
from Miller, the galleys, or day laborer tasks.

At first it was completely open by that same mischievous vanity Leocadia and lack of courage
after: Peace even knowing how he came to know, was afraid to say it: - "The man you love, you,
the rich girl, spoiled by fortune, going at night to earn a wage that comes on Saturdays as blacksmiths
and bricklayers. "imagined that he would lose: his eye was completely absurd for Paz, after
knowing this, continue to love him. Modern life offered him every step examples of daughters
of wealthy families who for loving whim had to marry a poor journalist, with a little lawyer,
with anyone even the poorest of the middle class but who was ever in these times a lady made
to tread carpets and sticking the waist with silk, hand deliver a journeyman? Pepe silent,
without fear that she knew the whole truth, but without the courage to say it with their own lips.
Hearing her cry out frequently between passionate and affectionate, "Pepe me, how I love you!"
pulse rushing him to disclose what he was hiding as a disgrace, but then, watching dressed with
all the beauties of the estate, removed his hands or examining them to neglect fearful, and
her sister, to find them printed on the spot dirty work.

IV

Don Luis Maria de Agreda, a senator elected, thanks to the wealth and influence he had on his people,
was one of the old progressive obstinate in his party to survive, from those they put on all national
sovereignty, and for whom there was no contemporary Spain but four men of great worth: Mendizabal, for
the seizure; Espartero, having Carlism expired; Olózaga, having spoken before one of the traditional
obstacles; and Prim, to follow in his footsteps.

The fortunes of Don Luis, to be respectable, but the rest was not how much you spent your father
to conspire against Sartorius and Narvaez, but what better inherited was a great love for the game
progressive, much antipathy to demagoguery, which struck him as something paid for by gold reaction,
and a moderate repulsion Carlist invincible. The work of Don Luis on boards and party committees,
articles, projects and opinions he wrote, would be incalculable, with endless times projected third
in the debates, but never had the courage to break to speak in public
or to send two pages of a newspaper.

It was silly and it seemed because without actually having influence among his people imagined
that the consequence and loyalty should give more prominence it enjoyed, being somewhat vain. As
the word obey evil thought, fled the long dialogues and talks in circles, limiting making yes
/ no signs of head, and at best, to say terse sentences, taking on his lips pretentious tone judgments.
Many regarded him as a man formal, but short-sighted, and I tried some serious ass. Those went over
close to the truth, because without an intelligence insider Don Luis, was honored and final,
if somewhat embittered, to imagine that it should shine and bubbling over in his party.

What was his real claim to fame, for those who heard of it was education that he gave his daughter.
For the widowed thirty-two years and suggested that peace, when he was missing, was able to live by
themselves, without outside help, he knew his fortune managing and learn to know his heart, not
to leave it exposed to predation or errors tutorescas of their inexperience. Often said: - "Know
how much you have, hard drive, and has always considering what you're going to do, so that
neither the neighbor nor rob you fooled you. "

Peace was a season of three years in a school run by nuns, which was not please his father, but
what to do if there were no other race in Madrid home education? He learned to write with beautiful
letter, to speak French quite well and rudiments incomplete of many things: little sewing,
embroidery something and pray a lot. Without leaving the school knew As also happened in Madrid until
insides of families that no one cared; but, apparently, for the mothers there were no secrets,
so that output Sunday, Don Luis was wonderful to hear her daughter
things that he did not hear or the rippling of the Casino.

This, and a vanity tantico that was awakening in the soul of Peace, led to his father to remove
the convent school, but even if wanted to do it with great tact and restraint, finally had to be
strong, because the holy women had tried to attract the will of the child. "We led this goodness of Peace?
"Aspires to conquer your precious voice to the chapel? Prendáronse "perhaps the enthusiasm with
which was the first to spend rich schoolgirl savings buying, and the altar cloth of Christ,
and the touches of the Virgin and the lace for altar cloth? This was a holiday, Don Luis may
not be get it, sent the carriage to a relative, who returned for lunch alone referring to the
good mother had said that Paz did not go mademoiselle. Don Luis, thinking his daughter was ill,
went immediately to see and dislike of the superior, it was not bring the girl to the presence
of the father, who spent a very bad time noting that his peace, not be punished or ill, paving
gladly stay there instead of going to spend the day with him. Finally got her daughter to
follow him, and tonight has not allowed back to school. "There are no more mothers than me"
- said Don Luis - and has since devoted care and education of his daughter, without losing that
his excessive fondness for public affairs. The letters of the superior and the embassies of
the chaplain, were in vain efforts to recover the sheep, but not able to turn to the fold.
Thereafter, Don Luis allowed to Peace, from time to time, spend something in Sabanilla, cloaks
and lace, but not let her return set foot in the convent. Meekness, which is great virtue,
the nuns prevented offend: never left his lips word of reproach, nothing they tried to inflame
the devotion rising, perhaps frustrated vocation of peace, but also forgot to remember in
days determined and solemn festivities at one end of Madrid was a house that is holy honored to
have had it for pupil and which was sent from time to time some alms to charity, a bouquet of flowers
for that altar whose steps are kneeling many times.

As peace was good, the treasure of love which he found in his house the school was soon forgotten,
and that passion went out like Mongil hand. Freedom of action, the pride to send in his house as
the owner and, especially, the skilled father's love, drowned while the pious kidnapping may
have occurred. It took a few weeks of this life, and school, before some poetry imbued placid, was
reduced in the imagination of Peace to a set of memories cold and colorless. After a year Don
Luis, choosing cautiously took her home where he began it at the called good society, which
touched his finery and the more worried than before the clothes of the holy images: cabinet
full of beauties and the soft bed were most pleasing to the cold room and schoolgirl narrow bed, the
flowers in her hair put his hand cut off by the garden of the house,
overthrew the bouquets of cloth of the altar, and to top of wickedness,
the first symphony of Mozart that he heard playing in his ears sounded
more pleasant than the litanies, salves and motets.

The number of impressions experienced Paz treading strange houses classrooms, there was no But
as nice as you felt going to reign in his own home. A bit of live with his father, he learned
of their business, explaining what his fortune, helping it to manage interest, which came Paz
persuaded that Don Luis was an honest man, and the origin of what was decent and clean. Instead,
he began to see that not all houses or all men as his home and his father. Although incomplete
and veiled through education and the hypocrisy, bad light came to his eyes, causing a feeling
like which suffer who made just to breathe clean air, suddenly entered in an atmosphere flawed.
The instinct was supplied to the mischief, malice wit: failed to imagination unravel the causes
of things, but saw the impact and was quite in order to be entered the soul a healthy fear.

In
his mind there were two simultaneous impulses: the awakening of the moral concerns of life
and distrust anyone to share his emotions.

With his father had all the sincerity possible, but the mysterious desires, those doubts naive
reserved for those women whispered to the one her heart, did not leave his lips. The gallant and
phrases compliments the instilled a restless anticipation, a vague terror that prevented display pleased:
was like a bird who was afraid to network. When a man flattered her ear with tenderness or asked
hopes, she involuntarily remembered so many unhappy poor married couples quarreling, households
seemed inns, where husband and wife accused indifference, diversion, if not disgust. Self-love will
not let her deny her beauty, but her instinct said danger in their wealth. Being loved by another,
it seemed easy: to know what love would be sincere, we judged impossible. Wanted to hide the
welfare of his house, and sometimes extravagant impulses felt jokes, easily hide their lust
for achievement, similar to those princes who travel undercover to thank rigorous inspire sympathy
and hear the language of openness.

"The best costume - used to say - is the conceals more than it costs. "

* * * * *

One afternoon he saw Pepe entered the library of the Senate a gentleman about fifty years tall, graying,
his face shaven and looking entirely too clean, addressing the main charge, said:

- I come to ask you a favor. Can you recommend one of these guys that you have here, at your
service, to come a few mornings at my house and help me tidy my library? I have new shelves
and books must be transferred site. A wise guy, eh?

- Hey you this - Pepe asked the boss, and addressing the gentleman, he added .-- Nobody by the way:
its formality and its illustration will serve you much. Almost a lawyer ...

He has made the request looked at Joe, and the authority that gave
her years, said to him:

- Let's see, young man.

       A boy, though not needed, never hurts a puñadillo of dollars.

Have you heard what we discussed? Want you come to my house a few mornings?

- Yes sir, and I will do my best to accommodate.

- Well, I count
on you When will we start? because I have it there all upset.

- When
you want.

- Tomorrow.

We hope in the morning to eleven.

When he was gone, Pepe thanked the librarian and asked who was that man.

- It Don Luis Maria de Agreda, Senator, very good person. Of those who never speaks, and progressive
in the former, but very rich. Merely go to the polls, although always
saying he will be speaking ... and never speaks.

Then he gave the address of the house of Don Luis and separated.

V

Turning to the appointment of Mr. de Agreda, at half past ten came
next Pepe in the hotel that lived, at the end of the Castellana.

He crossed the garden, small and neat, climbed the stairs, full of
pots, which seemed to be guarding two magnificent bronze dogs, and
entered the office, which was part of the ground floor.

The wood floor was assembled, the magnificent tapestries, the furniture
comfortable and luxurious; all charged a lot of money.

The board indicated order, great cleanliness and little work, as
had on it was well placed, but without noticing anything in the confusion,
own work continuous.

Books were few, richly bound, and no signs of frequent handling:
should not be those who had to be sorted.

In two side walls of a wall covered very dark flowered paper gold, there were two portraits
of women. In one, the costume and hair the fashion of 1850, but above all, paint, licking and
scavenging finesse, betrayed the hand of one of those artists who maintained the elegant style reminiscent
of Don Vicente López, without having acquired the force of the great
painters of our contemporaries.

The lady was combing her hair done two great waves, very smooth, and his features almost identical
to the one portrayed in the canvas, but it was the beauty of the first more Full and harmonious.
Despite this difference, it seemed then, that was easy to guess their relationship. They must be
mother and daughter, judging by the age and represented each the difference in the suits. The
portrait of the youngest was a double wonder, by the model and invoice. A piece of gauze covered
her impalpable shoulders, like a ruff old, had face is almost in shadow, eyes tight for a livor
dark, slightly tilted head forward and placed between the hair a pink pen, weightless, loose,
that seemed ready to move at the slightest breath.

The two balconies overlooked the garden office, through the slats of the blinds falls, saw a small
stove with expensive flowers plants, destined to die in vases lit a cabinet or chest of a pretty
woman. Completed the ornament the walls a few English prints, a portrait of Olózaga, lithography,
with a dedication autograph, and an honorary colonel of the National Militia 54, encased in
rich Trim and issued to the father of peace.

Luis came suddenly.

- I like punctuality.

Come with me, and you will see if there is here for awhile.

They went into an adjoining room, entirely lined with books, where three shelves new oak and
occupied empty as many walls, showing their huge wooden hollow clean, freshly carved and impregnated
with the smell of varnish. In the center stood a large table, also full of books, plus books
everywhere: in soil, on top of stacked chairs and in the corners,
all jumbled like moving house where they went.

That day did not happen anymore but Don Luis gave some instructions to Pepe and he began to
tidy up the volume, then walking away with precise time for lunch before go to the Senate.
When leaving the house, quiet imagination, only asked a question: "What people will it?"

* * * * *

Pepe took three mornings to find volumes for coupling of different works, placing them then my best,
when the fourth day, while in the office leave of Don Luis, suddenly heard a door open cautiously
behind him and a woman's voice asked:

- I can go?

       

Miss the portrait was that of the pink pen.