 Flowery climbing
roses and other plants that are stuck to the trees, and passing from tree to tree other festoons
and garlands, there were mysterious and secluded bush venue.

Sitting and Poldy, pondered, and had to be distracted by such art, which, as commonly it is said,
was the saint to heaven. What was his astonishment and what was his joy when noise and suddenly
felt no time to recover, saw the arrival of a gentle knight, he approached
and came to be respectful and knelt at his feet.

Impossible to doubt. Was the original of the three portraits in photography. Stylish dress was
hunter costume, but without weapons, because it was already going
to hunt tigers, but pigeons.

And pith helmet instead of east, covering his head a jaunty fedora adorned with a feather eagle.

The
young man knocked to the ground and discovered the black hat and
abundant curls of her head, before his knees.

Deep was the emotion of Poldy. Her heart was leaping in his chest. The young man seemed much more
beautiful than the original pictures, and when he heard his voice,
Argentina, melodious and rich and soft persuasive tones that steal
prudence and calm, he could barely stand and thought he would faint.

In that situation was not any dialogue possible.

What could be said the two lovers? How what sentences would be correct in what superhuman language
to express their feelings agitators?

Only he said:

- Here I am, Poldy. Yours is my life. I want to be and I'll be yours
forever.

I love you, I will idolize, I adore you.

What was there to answer Poldy, dumbfounded, radiant with joy, and love and decency struggling in
his soul?

He, however an effort and stood up, though troubled and uncertain.

Then he got up too and pressed it irresistible and lovingly in his arms. Then, pressing her
face to hers and covered it with kisses your forehead, cheeks and rosy lips.

Poldy met at last the danger was, he was ashamed of giving in so easily
who saw and heard for the first time, and, giving his injured forces
decency rejected violence to her lover, fell off his arms, and sought
shelter for their audacity desalted fleeing and taking refuge in the
castle.

Alone in his stay, he said Poldy of his fear, he managed to calm down, and at the bottom of
his soul could not fail to grant his pardon to the Indian prince.
What will not forgive a young woman graceful and elegant, very much
in love her, and coming to look and offer his hand from as far away
countries? And besides, what could I do it when she was silent, trembling,
breathing and unresponsive to your words? If the Indian had not done
what he did or would have been a superhuman entity which no style,
or ruin mozalvete, stunted and very to little.

Just thought Poldy.
I do not say if he thought if he thought good or bad. I say only that
he thought so and that, in consequence of these premises, cast your
mind back in the acquittal to the young Indian.

Then pulled out a
drawer of his desk and lit photography pleasure is sluggish began
to contemplate