 

He closed the paper a charade in verse, which, if remembered correctly, was the word hazelnut.

The serial was in charge of Mr. Rufus, who was one and a half studying the French without teacher,
by the method Ollendorf. It was resolved to translate, for the newspaper, The Mysteries Paris,
work in six volumes. Needless to say Sarrió Lighthouse, despite living some years, never made
it to the third volume. Don Rufo was a notable translator. If a defect was brought to an, was
the original setting is too. One day he ventured that "the countess had seized the button
of his secretary." This statement raised as cloud of dust among the ignorant people that Don Rufo,
just angry, left the translation the serial. It was charged to a
driver who had career years in Bayonne.

The success of the prime number, as expected, was wonderful. Sinforoso article, the wise discourse
of Don Jeronimo de la Fuente, the newsletters and to the verses of Parakeet, all was read and justly
celebrated. But what mainly attracted the attention of the serious people and caused a deep impression
on them, was the article by Don Rosendo our purposes. That journalistic language as lively and spirited,
those noble thoughts, enthusiasm the interests of Sarrió, openness and modesty that it glowed, full
of joy hearts and made them to sense an era of prosperity and bienandanza. At night, the orchestra,
directed by Mr. Anselmo with his big shiny key, serenaded to the editor. Iluminóse the facade
of printing with fairy lights. The beautiful and merry artisans Sarrió, caught, as usual, the occasion
for the hairs to dance mazurkas Havana and on the hard stones of the street. The worthy individuals
with the language of metal paid tribute of admiration and enthusiasm to the drafters of Faro,
were treated by them with wine Wheel and cigars. The joy was overflowing with all breasts and
hugging so overflowed strong and spontaneous. Don Rosendo embraced Navarro, Alvaro Peña Rudesindo
don, don Rufo to Sinforoso, and Don Pedro Miranda Folgueras the printer. The musicians hugged
yes, and each and every one to his peritísimo director Mr. Anselmo. Out of print, and also commemorate
this glorious day, he hugged the blonde Pablito Nieves, exploiting the darkness of a doorway,
and several other young men, following his example, equally distributed embraces the joyful celebrations
among Aboriginal girls.

The only thing that troubled for a moment that general contentment, was the singular sadness that
Folgueras seized as he had a few liters of wine into the body. The memory of Lancia his hometown,
he suddenly offered to the spirit, leaving him in a state of distress difficult to explain.
At the moment the happy clamor and reached its maximum, called Rosendo aside and with tears
in his eyes, he said that life outside their homeland adored was unbearable for him a bale.
Death, rather than lose sight of the humble home that housed her crib, and the streets so often
walked their children's feet. That week, if God wanted, had to leave and move Sarrió again with
his gear Lancia.

Upon receiving this news Rosendo abruptly turned pale.

- But, man of God, and the number next to the lighthouse?

- Don Rosendo, you can dispense ... You are a gentleman ... A gentleman knows how to appreciate
feelings of another gentleman ... The country above all ... Guzmán el Bueno threw the knife over
the wall to kill his son ... Too you know. Eh ... What about it? ... Irrigation died on the
scaffold. Eh ... What's that? If I were of the Foundling or had no
affection for the shirt that I wear, do not tell me anything I needed.

Life I would you like a dog giving the wheel ... But feelings drowning man ... The man lives, the man
works, man is sometimes a bit of expansion ... Y because they drink a glass or two ... Or three!
Did you forget the country ?.... Huh? What's that?

Don Don Rosendo Rudesindo called to his aid. Entered the two tried to dissuade him with powerful
reasons. The most powerful of all was a new bottle of wine from Rueda. After having introduced
into the body, the patriotic feelings of Folgueras visibly weakened. Continuous act ordered another
bottle, drank, vomited, and fell asleep.

Thoughts of glory, immortality vague desires of agitated the mind of the illustrious founder El Faro
de Sarrió at the time of going to bed. After turning off the light, even continued disturbed,
until a force of spinning their pieces or take shape. Don Rosendo he thought with excitement at
the possibility of his death the town, grateful perpetuate his memory placing a tombstone with
his name in the town hall.

Tribute of gratitude from the Sarrió villa his enlightened son Don Rosendo Belinchón, tireless
champion of their progress moral and material. It was not easy to sleep surrounded by these brilliant
images. However, after he fell asleep with a smile on his lips. An angel of the Lord progressive
is rigged in such cases, beat its wings all night on his forehead, inspiring dreams happy.

The next morning was in the best state of mind in any man can be found after his efforts crowned by
a flattering success. Dressed himself humming pieces of zarzuela. Chocolate made with the family,
took a look at the national newspapers and foreign and uncut the usual bundle of sticks, threw
himself into the street to make sure the actual effect that the first issue of Faro had occurred.
In the store you were Graells with joy, congratulated him on his article (which he modestly
attributed did not want to) and talked at length the newspaper. What most aroused the enthusiasm
of the good commentators, was the consoling thought that Nieves had not yet arrived or come in a
long time with this level of improvement. And Don Rosendo, slightly warmed by the praise, promised
undertake active campaigns for everything he demanded. One asked us to speak Ravine Back Street,
another asked that we put a bluff near his home, another to him some
pills to highest bidder tirasen beverages, other than not sing calm
time because this will disturb the sleep, etc.. Don Rosendo nodded,
frowned, extended open hand in sign of protection.

The newspaper would fix everything. Woe to him who rebelled against the claims of the press!

In the Dona Rafaela tobacconist of the Rue Saint-Florencio, where they met some honest matrons of
the neighborhood with whom liked to talk a while, given to the sticks, also spoke of Faro. There
are fixed preferably in the melodrama. Don Rosendo announced the next number was much more interesting,
and left. In a crowd of sailors who had congratulated him on the dock with rude enthusiasm
and he hinted at the idea that the dock was very dirty and needed to be dredged. It dragaría: if
dragaría go! Don Rosendo away seriously possessed of omnipotence. And rolling in the distance
see the big waves and choppy, wondered whether it would be opportune
to contact an excitement by the press to moderated their impertinent
agitation.

As you arrive and when to eat, gave the house back to meditating on the grave responsibility would
incur before God and men if, holding in his hands this sovereign power, no employed in the
prosperity and aggrandizement of his hometown. Upon reaching the Rúa Nueva, found on the sidewalk
with Gabino Maza. The former officer greeted him bilious very finely, it asked his family,
and was buried with kindness health of each members. Then he talked about the weather, the possibility
that he is alive Northeast Gale trucks suddenly closed, and no ships could leave America's Career;
immediately complained of dust in the roads, which prevented him from walking, he learned the price
of cod and the news he had of fishing in Newfoundland. Don Rosendo expected, as was natural that
he told the newspaper. Nothing: Maza made no mention of it. This began to embarrass you and
make violent situation. The talk was of a point to another without touching on anything that
relates to the press.

Rosendo Finally, something shortened and teaching all the pasta of
your teeth, he said:

- Have not received your El Faro?

I sent it first.

- Phs ... I think that yesterday I brought home, but I have not yet opened - said Mace affected
indifference .-- Go, Don Rosendo, "you eat like me ?...- Well bye.

Don Rosendo was a moment rooted to the ground as if you take a cold shower. The blood rushed to his face
furiously, and went on his way, halting, toward home. Because he was so unprepared, that contempt
was a stab that came to the quick. After stunning ceased, we undertook an inconceivable wrath against
that ... (Not satisfied to call less than evil and miserable). He came home in a deplorable
state of agitation. Although he sat at the table, making efforts
to calm the stomach, suddenly embarrassed, would not admit the food.

He was sullen and silent during the meal.

From time to as his lips twitched with a smile and muttered a sarcastic villain!

- What are you, Rosendo? - Finally dared to ask his wife, who was already restless.

- Nothing, Paulina, that envy causes havoc in the world - only answered bitterly.

Once discharged this profound statement, was in a state of relative rest. He lay a chair to
think, and within half an hour left home again in the direction of the Club. Upon entering
the cafe's voice shouting Gabino Maza as always up there. You receive from the ladder figured he spoke
of the newspaper and it described as "solemn charade. " Her heart skipped a beat and went
into the room excited and sad. To see Maza, gesturing in the middle of a group, he stopped,
put on his hat and was a sullen gesture sit on the couch. Those who listened to him, Don Jaime
Marin, Delaunay, Don Lorenzo and Don Feliciano Gomez, greeted him with some embarrassment and a shame,
which confirmed his suspicion. Concealed his best, and trying to
put a happy face, began to talk about the news running.

The conversation took the direction of every day, confidence, reigned.

But the engineer Delaunay, as smart as malevolent character, took the talk of newspaper asking
their founder with wry chuckle in broken Spanish that he used:

-
What odd jobs you prepare for the next issue, Don Rosendo?

- I will
see you when you go - he replied dryly, that he guessed the hidden
mockery behind the question.

- Here at Don Feliciano - continued
the engineer with the same smile - you have an advocate arch.

- If
I defend is that someone attacked me - said Don Rosendo even more
dryness.

No one said a word.

The silence lasted a long time, until it broke Belinchón asking a question himself indifferent
to Don Jaime, which the conversation again encouraged. But he had averted the crash but momentarily.
The ball was on the roof and soon to fall. Maza was vehement desire to tell you don Rosendo the
paper was "a mess." This was not less alive to tell it was Maza an envious. And indeed, at
the first opportunity that was presented, both caught by the hairs to communicate these glad
tidings. The dispute lasted more than two hours. Maza sought Rosendo was suppressed because
an older gentleman and he had fifteen thousand reais. The founder of the Lighthouse, for reasons
of prudence, he dared not let the language entirely. However, after all, in better or worse
terms, all said for the edification of the notables, were divided for and on behalf of the contestants.
One must admit that part of Maza got the least. The Indians, indifferent as ever to these fights,
peered occasionally at the door of the pool cue in hand, to hear the reasons the contestants,
and illustrated. For them, those discussions were very helpful. Les taught a lot of terms and phrases
that do not know, and they caught so much, even if in a superficial way, certain problems of
life, entirely closed to them ... Too bad the pool fans can still hear them forever!

The state of agitation and anger that came out of the Club Rosendo can not be weighed. His great
high and magnanimous character, was wounded by a cruel way for the
ingratitude and baseness of those false friends.

Horrible torture must be to live and die in the dark when are born to shine at the peak of human
society, and consume forces received the sky in a vacuum and inaction! More fierce pain is still
despised the noblest view work of the spirit, the generous efforts for the triumph of goodness
and truth! Such was For Socrates, Columbus, Galileo, Giordano Bruno, and possibly also that of
our hero. The first bite of envy caused him severe pain that must have felt these great benefactors
of mankind. His spirit faltered. It was a moment nothing else, a passenger who served fainting
to demonstrate better the admirable temper of his soul.

However, could not have dinner that night. It took a long time to sleep. How many sad considerations
is provided here!

As the mob of deprived Sarrio wit, enlightenment and encouragement, slept soundly, worthy man
rolled in his bed on a bed of thorns, without achieving the caresses of sleep.

The next morning he got up a little pale and haggard, but strong and
determined to continue His work of regeneration, in spite of all moral
and material obstacles arise in its path.

That night of insomnia, rather than waste away his spirit and peel of company, confirmed it
gave him strength to carry to a successful auction. Fire consumes and it sparks the straw to gold
as unblemished.

Ocupóse thus brilliantly in drawing the plan of the second issue that
would appear on Thursday next.

And as always happens, success will brought happy to help. Many jobs that were offered for the
second issue, but most were not step. Lack of space obligóle also reject some who were. This was
some gossip and tasteless. Second obstacle encountered by his patriotic enterprise.

But the publication of the fifth highest number came another that
occurred in the village honda and dragged him feel strong eddies.

It happened that Alvaro Peña, firmly convinced as we know, that all the pains and imperfections
that humans depend suffer only a preponderance of the clergy, to take the gun propúsose newspaper
undertake an active campaign against him. And to start launched the guise of guerrillas, some
few newsletters.