 Deep emotion, unspeakable, shook the boy's chest. The Dwarf put
his hand on his shoulder and left.

VI

The inheritance of Iñigo de la Hoz, Valle-Amblés, was located near the foot of the mountains,
a quarter of a mile west of Sonsoles. He composed at the beginning of a piece of Mount and
three hundred acres of land for planting, but due to the troubles of the Lord, had been eroding
rapidly until reduced to a thick and narrow strip of scrubland meadow in the end of which stood
the ruined farmhouse of the parents of Dona Brianda. La Jara the lavender and the vicious weed
had invaded the gardens existed. The roads only be guessed by the alignment of trees. On the
mountain was difficult to advance.

Nature dominion over many years of neglect, is now advocated to tangle with the fustazo, with the
spine.

Instead, from the high windows of the mansion would have established a seasoned Verjel Don Alonso,
where tanks are full, the trails clean and graciously trimmed privet and myrtle as in the gardens
of Italy.

Could be distinguished also envisioned by the famous parapets the gentleman, whose mosaics of
pebbles white, black and red contained fables Ovid. Some evenings up in the air pink water jets,
soaking falling the steps and foliage.

Ramiro aficionose soon to the free life he had in his possession. When he had completed thirteen,
Medrano, who used to stay with their daughter Casilda in the lower
blocks of the barn he showed in the nag of a laborer, all the basics
of horsemanship and the flange.

In addition, making himself a light spear with streamers and strings, he showed how to handle
it; and some nights, in the light of a candle, I exercised, by his
own shadow, to lower and raise the hand to the ear to learn to attack
boldly.

Medrano had, by his bedside, two swords: one, narrow and long for others to shed fitting, the
other to handle heavy gate and broad blade with two edges.

- This steel - he said, noting his fine sword squire - is young man does not know what that is sinking
in the flesh until the recazo, but aquesta - added, taking down with
a gesture of love his Joyosa a former soldier - has drawn more blood
than a barber, and more souls than a nun.

With him I poked guts over a bully, broken pate over an opponent and nearly severed, nicely, do
not know how a Turkish gullet!

Ramiro listened glare and a unique experience, to wield the sword himself, it seemed that his heart
was growing inside the chest.

Fencing lessons begin.

The squire palpábale their muscles early, and as forces that thrived Ibal mysterious teaching
these tricks to which he believed should good luck every soldier who came to old age.

Certain days during the hours of siesta, to escape the vigilance of Dona Guiomar, went out
both looking for a shady site of Mt. The child inhaled with delight the rustic smoke of the
fires that burned usually in the neighboring estate, and the sun and the perfume tornábanle
at first extremely sensitive.

Medrano, after sitting in the shade of a tree, stayed silent for a moment, no other movement
throughout her figure than red feather hat the breeze stirring. But little later, prompted by the
view of the valley, whose long clear light reminded him of the sea and quiet, put a powerful
referral capture ships or some daring landing the coast of Levante.

       Ramiro did not lose a single gesture, a single word of the narrator,
and, Currently, the passion to fight him so hard that hallucinating
came to believe himself, on the deck of the ship or between horses
and cutlasses of the infidels.

Other times, however, leaving him without hearing him speak and abstracting his mind, set its
great eyes on the walls of the city, whose shadow, towers and outlining reddish towards the opposite
side of the valley, where vast iron crown.

He dreamed then that he was called to cover a new day of Christian
honor, to be acclaimed by the first of all in the value and popularity.

*

* * * *

Some books of chivalry and one or two tried to bridle and
stirrups that surprised about the firm of his room, the mother did
understand what was happening in the mind your child.

Consult the case with his chaplain, an old Franciscan friar, who was both grammar teacher Ramiro,
and we were advised the remedies of the Church: prayer, penance, recollection.

The child was subjected to gentle, full of pious concern.

VII

It was one of those days of shame that does not escape heatwave, with
being so steep and windy, whole region of Castile.

A hot air was drowsy in the naves, and heaven without emboldens the dye clouds as the enamel in the
oven. The rock is reeling under the fury of the sun, the tree is roasted. Here and there along
the road, the herd or flock up large dust clouds, as if they were hosts.

Grim reflection on the mineral floated Amblés Valley. The scenery was even more severe under
that relentless clarity.

Began threshing. The harvest glittered in ages.

The peasants had to take turns without ceasing for a drink in the shade of the cars. Meanwhile,
rose lazily about the fork, others stiff as posts on the boards threshers
turned in a sorry beset with rage at the mules and oxen, and alighting
at each moment to make them sound jaws backs or with their clubs.

Ramiro, surfeited with religious readings, took the Adventures of
Silves de la Selva and went to hide in a dark nook of the mountain
that were three large boulders in the shade of an oak.

Lying on the ground with his fist on the temple, reading suspended at times, to feel better the
delight of hiding. Sometimes a light beam passing through the leaves and made wobble on the book
a medal in the sun. That shadow tasted the freshness Barroso water retained in the alcarrazas.

Suddenly
the sound of rapid footsteps made him raise his head. Miró. Medrano was running the shortcut towards
the village.

- Where are you going? - Gritole.

The squire said with a brief gesture to follow him.

Once at the stables of the barn, while searching his girdle, Medrano
was briefly happened.

In neighboring estate, Cerberus, the big dog that served as a guard at the gates, had become angry,
biting and escaping a lackey to the mountain.

Don Alonso was in Madrid and her daughter had stayed with the ladies, which sent him to call in
a hurry to lead to win in the hound hunting. Ramiro had a sudden glare. Donceles gentlemen
remembered the stories that headless dragons, monsters and fierce
lions, princesses redeeming, disrupting spells and curses.

       At the same time Beatriz's face crossed her mind.

When the squire was to stick the broad two-edged sword, he, without a word put both hands on
the pistol grip, looking with an expression at once pleading and determined. The old soldier understood.
Taking time for himself the finest sword he left the other in Ramiro power. Then, shouting: "Come
quickly, we hope," went on the block.

They arrived at the mansion of Don Alonso not find anyone.

House was all closed and deserted; but as she passed the basket met with six men armed with
pikes and forks.

The squire gave to the orders.

Everyone would climb by a distinct point of the mountain, and just
exchange the animal three strong voices would help.

       Ramiro Apostle landed a few steps kitchens, giving him a horn and
asking him not to move from the spot.

* * * * *

Somewhat later, tired of waiting, Ramiro began to penetrate well into
the trees.

Many stories, beyond the stately tower, had made him know what was
the danger of anger and fear that scattered through the towns and
countryside that he was crouching snout sowing anger and death.

It threw all the locks, was collected from cats, dogs, asses, and
while the women lit a candle to Santa Catalina and Santa Quiteria
lawyers against rabies, the boys would go out boldly, armed with the
tools sharp they were finding.

Ramiro moved quickly jumping rocks and old pruning herds.

The oaks and the thorns did not prevent the sun heated the earth with its pale rays and lean, and
a perfume retostado lavender, thyme steppe and perfumed the air. The flowers of broom arose
here and there among the rocks leaden, shining gold from its petals
over the sky of indigo.

       

Ramiro panting. Sweat bañábale face.

* * * * *

Half an hour later, one of the maids saw Beatrice entered the courtyard
of the house to her grandson Don Inigo bringing in one hand a broad
sword all red with blood and the other head dog.

- God bless me and
Santa Quiteria, and killed him! - Said the woman.

Then, looking intently at the bloody plunder, added:

- Poor Cerberus, and how I pushed his hands to his chest to lick on
the face!

But it was forced acaballo that rabid dog with his own work.

Medrano has been to exploit, for fixed!

- It was Medrano.

- Who?

- I was alone in the mountains, and passing it a bundle of firewood,
vile come running towards me.

Hícele a good knife roll like a bowling pin. Then Hachel neck.

- Our Lady and what will be when you grow barragán beard! - Said the woman, frightened certain young
man that he had killed the terrible animal without assistance.

He then asked her to follow him, but Ramiro, approaching a gate that opened onto the field,
supported a moment the sword on the wall, taking the horn played three times with force. The three
long notes reverberated in the echoes of the mountain with a are legendary.

* * * * *

The maid fuel driving a series of dark blocks.

Finally, arriving at a door ajar, Ramiro was a chorus of women who called plaintively to Santa Quiteria
and Santa Catalina. Entered. A ray of sun shone into the room after a timber ajar. What a scream
that erupted in the dark when the boy raised in the light beam the bloody head, dripping on
the carpet!

One of the ladies collapsed on his back, Faint sudden dam.

The woman accompanying joy Ramiro had the prowess of youth. Then, in the middle of embarrassed
silence, Beatriz came forward without hesitation.

A's owner yanked the skirt; but the daughter of Don Alonso, looking at those hands as early red for
courage, off a blue for decorating your curls, and turning to Ramiro,
she knotted it in the stiffness of the jacket with his trembling hands,
white as the moon.

VIII

Ramiro suddenly knew the rapture of first love.

Surpassed his dream life, and that sudden delirium was soon for him to color, rhythm, and
perfume of all creation.

His religious fervor and their hopes of glory hounds then as they lay at the feet of the new
passion. Beatriz's pale face, with big eyes and their long eyelashes as crying, we did possess now
on the page of his book of prayers on the hangings the bed, on the
same crucifix, which hoped their grief.

Fatuous and moody ghost as a volatile flame, and to which his heart melted with tenderness.

He began composing dirges and letrillas that could have provided for Our Lady, and long and conceptual
thought speeches addressed to his beloved, at the earliest opportunity.

Some night, turning off the light of his room, spent long hours looking
out the window.

Sometimes looking into the neighboring garden scented dipped in dark
and silent, others raised the face and eyes toward the heights.

Nothing exalted his passion for the magnificent mystery of the stars.

It seemed that his restless lights you spoke a language he does not sublime quite understand.
Imagined then leave this life time to be reborn Beatriz there in the unspeakable regions, and wander
alone with her, hoping that divine zephyr seems to shake the constellations.

For

       some days his brain became unhinged.

His complexion became pale as wax, and he was surprised by their ceaseless sighing and deep sorrow
that his chest, all pain of love and longing.

Some mornings he found himself on ballester pigeons along the fence that separated the two
estates. Meanwhile his eyes lurking next door. How then became intense fascination for him in
the morning freshness and between the songs of birds, those lattices that ajar made him think of
his beloved sleep!
One evening, an opening of branches, was passed to Beatrice, who
never took his eyes from the hedge. The young man was. The girl made
him, then, surreptitiously, a signal to follow further and, when he
thought he had eluded the vigilance of the owners, he entreated her
to pass her garden.

They greeted as a platform and he failed to babble
Ramiro only one of the ingenious concepts that he had ordered to say
it.

That game was repeated many times. Paseábanse linked fingers,
speaking barely looking, from time to time, in the eyes, unsmiling.
The maid took him to sites more lush and hidden. There they discovered
the nature of the butterfly, the bird, more often the insect, its
impure innocence. The magical desire throbbed, fluttered, chirping
before them, in the still soft and warm summer.

Ramiro always retained
the memory of certain moments when, walking with her in the green
path labyrinth, dared to pass his arm around the neck and throat to
take it lightly. On another occasion, Beatriz went up to an old swing
and began to sway violently, caught in a rapture of youth and happiness.
His laughter large, crazy, unexpected, flew as a swarm of blackbirds,
waking the echoes through the trees. The wind lifted her skirt in
an unforgettable way.

They spoke more and more tremulous and outside
themselves. That threw a futile thoughts. The, wrapping her in his
proud eyes, said she dreamed of owning as absolute owner this delicious
life. Beatrice was for him and his successful harvest, safe from harm.
However, one day they asked:

- Aina I wished he be my wife?

She
said:

- Tamañita I stay. What do you think that so early?

Canturri
then stood, looking up, and showing, apparently more willing to give
his cheek and his mouth there, that the madman espiritillo throbbing
in his head Rattlesnake which a pebble.

* * * * *

This happy state
did not last for Ramiro. As about three-quarters of a league, in the
direction Villatoro, lived during the summer, Magpie Blázquez de San
Vicente, with her two children males. The husband, Felipe de San Vicente,
Commissioner of the Inquisition and individual Council of orders,
spent most of the year in Madrid. The two young men were the scourge
of that corner of the mountain. Were always together and hated. Once
or twice a week came to visit her cousin Beatrice, coming on the road
as hell to all that gave their hacks, and followed, from afar, by
a schoolmaster rabidly Talon mule between the white dust