 

With major festivals celebrated the arrival of cattle fluid. Peru had the visit of the wise Humboldt,
and in Lima witnessed a startling phenomenon night have been heard clearly much thunder. At that
time the trees were planted in the Alameda de Acho.

As Spain and France made common cause against England and had just made disaster Trafalgar, two brigs
in Arica English attacked the Spanish frigate Astrea, causing heavy
damage and forcing her to seek shelter in the bay.

Trying to comply with a royal order of confiscation of Church property Avilés encountered serious
resistance, the prudent viceroy calmed stalling and sending queries and memorials to the Crown.
This was not the first time that the Viceroy appealed the case to allow time to time to free
themselves from commitments. In 1804 interesábase the city because the viceroy dictate certain
providence, but he, believing that the thing was not practicable
or that fell outside its powers, decided to consult the monarch.

The people, who knew, began to murmur without her veil, and at the
door of the palace appeared this lampoon:

Avilés!

Avilés! What do you do that the city does not see?

The Viceroy did not take to anger, and commanded to write below:

To give pleasure to have sent to Spain cravings for glasses.

Response to calm down because the neighbors saw her commitment was
subject to the king's decision.

Avilés devoted much of his time to religious practices.

The people painted with this statement.

In the prayer business and government is incompetent is.

In July 1806, handed over command to Abascal.

Elderly, ill and depressed mood, the recent death of his wife, wanted
to return Avilés Spain.

The ship that carried him arrived at Valparaiso, and a few days passed in this Viceroy port
devotee, as they called the picaresque Lima.

III

Armed with rope and without bothering to write obituaries previously
dismissed, as is fashion since the invention of the nerves and romantic,
our man went to the pond Santa Beatriz, then amenisimo place and surrounded
by orange groves and other trees, which seemed but they were inviting
the neighbor to hang them and disrupt boredom and sorrows.

Roman began by reviewing the trees, and all but one was put on them. This was not high enough,
it did not offer to support consistency of fruit body a tagarote as he and the other was a
little thicket, beyond the somewhat stooped.

When hanged one should even take the consolation of having done to your taste given. At last tree
with the conditions found that the case required, and climbing on
it, tied the rope one of the most vigorous branches.

In these preparations reflected that, not to be interrupted and stop
half die and have perhaps to begin anew the task, it was best to wait
until the road was deserted.

Indian fishermen who came from Chorrillos, herbalists Groove, yanaconas Miraflores Maroons
San Juan and laborers on the estates, traded at that time a small distance the pond. There was
no way a man could kill in peace.

- Because it would Andromina that, to the best of the function, I dropped back a passer wrong!
If so, at last, has to be, nothing is lost by waiting a while, not
those who arrive late.

In these and other musings Hallab Román hidden between the thick branches
of the tree when saw arrive late step, and looking all around to face
suspicious, a man wrapped in a cloak full of patches.

This was a Spanish old man who lived on public charity, and who knew
in Lima Ovillitos nickname.

The nickname came from him who once went from house to house selling skeins of yarn, until
one day he decided to change jobs beggar sitting square.

Ovillitos after leading scrutinizing gaze to the walls and the road, he sat under the tree
which sheltered Roman, and taking a pair of scissors, ripped up two
of the infinite patches glazing barragán your filthy cloak.

What would be the Roman perched surprise to see that each patch released an ounce Ovillitos gold
and then buried them beneath the tree, after spending large space
lovingly contemplating time?

- What do suicide or eight quarters!
- Said Roman, cleverly down your tree just away the beggar -.

For God has come to see me take this opportunity and empuñémosla the only hair bald. Happy Tree
which such payment is!

And he began to work, and dug up just over a hundred pelucones, the
kind that under the Indiae et Rex looked Hispaniarum bust of Carlos
III and Carlos IV.

IV

Roman re-enable the store, and silverware trade is booming. Coached the days of hardship, put a
stop to the waste of his wife, whose character, by a miracle no doubt of Divine Providence, for whom
nothing is impossible, improved dramatically.

Ovillitos very sick to discover that her treasure had become a bird and flown closure. The unhappy
unaware that the money is not Carthusian monk who likes to be kept and mildew, and is a libertine
who can not do enough to go outdoors and from hand to hand. Beggars have been, at all times, that
his death has left a decent flow.

Roman died, and in the days of the republic, divided between his heirs
a fortune which was estimated at more than fifty thousand pesos.

One of the clauses of his will, we've read says for twenty years sum of thirty dollars per month
for Masses for the repose of the soul of Ovillitos.

THE MONK AND NUN OF CALLAO

I write this tradition to purge fat than a sin against the history and literature I made as a
boy.

Eighteen and was told pinic a writer and poet.

My dream was to hear, among the applause of a public good-natured, the discordant cries: the
author! The author! At that age whole mount antojábaseme cominillo oregano, and imaginábame with
four songs, badly sewn, and a dozen articulejos, basted worse, had put a pike in Flanders or
the other Jerez. Damned if not by lining individual consultation or if he knew from experience
that the old scrolls are breeding moths. You almost have dared to give me fifteen bay the most
knowledgeable in literary matters, when I was then one of those dunces that, eat bread instead
of acorns, Quixote put the legs of horses, calling book nonsensical
and without rhyme or reason.

Why? Because. This itself is a reason for standing bank, a ratio of unquestionable and capricious
brutality, I agree, but it is the reason we submit all the men in the absence of reason.

As ignorance is bold, let's have to write for the theater, and so
God forgive me if each of my spawn dramatic stab rogue was not the
proper sense of the muses and history.

Yet the public was goofy to call the scene the murderer poet and
that, instead of throwing the banks to the head, throw you spell crowns
of laurel.

Truth is that, by that time, I was not the only unfortunate that phenomenal productions discredited
the National Theatre, illustrated by good comedies and Segura Pardo. Consuela see that not all
the sackcloth bags.

One of my blunders Titulábase dramatic Rodil, four species of scorpion tails or actions and madman
on me, I was so stupid that I thought only my son's eighth wonder, but, bad sin!, consented to
a my friend, who did not have much of Solomon, he did put in print. Ink and what role do so
bad employees!

This was no drama or peeled pinion. Doggerel, lyricism silly, quirky dialogue, implausible
plot, sets brought to loop, impossible character, ownership of the language treated with kicks,
history arranged on a whim y. .. come on, it was a mess worthy of a magnificent rebuke. By way,
then, to protest against such parenting write this tradition, which,
at least, I shall save respects to the dictates of history and Rodil
shadow will not be entitled to sue for slander and give mine soplamocos
when both are given a slip in the valley of Jehoshaphat.

- Enough
preamble, and the fact! - Said the president of a court, interrupting
a lawyer who was with profiles and rodeos in an allegation of parentage
or paternity a sucker.

The lawyer said then run: - The fact is a fact boy: he who has deny that fact: this is the
fact.

I

With the battle of Ayacucho was enhancing the independence of South America. However, as a
morisqueta of Providence, Spain dominated for thirteen months in a half-mile area square. The
betrayal of Sergeant Moyano, in February 1824, had given to the realistic a fortified and well
manned and ammunition. The flag of Castilla flew in Callao, and it must be confessed that the
obstinacy of Rodil to defend this last stronghold of the monarchy
heroic bordered on recklessness.

Torrente historian, who calls the new Leonidas Rodil says did too much for his glory as a soldier.
Stevenson and even agree that Garcia Camba Rodil was cruel to barbarism, and that did not need
to maintain a desperate resistance to leave his reputation on straight and save the honor
of the Spanish arms.

No hope of relief forces arrived in the Peninsula, or in the country had a reaction in favor of
the colonial system, watching their comrades away days by day, decimated by scurvy and Republican
bullets, why not a moment fainted the untamed stubbornness of the
Castilian of Callao.

Much has been investigated the origin of the name Callao carrying the first port Republic, among
other versions, the most widespread is that it comes from the abundance is in your small pebble
beach called by the marine gravel or pebble.

As the years pass, take the figure of legendary proportions Rodil. More than man, It seems
to us to be great that embodied a will of iron in a steel body. Always vigil, theirs could never
know what the hours devoted to rest, and in the most unexpected moment was appearing as a ghost
on the ramparts and the barracks of his soldiers. Neither the relentless plague that swept
six thousand of the inhabitants of Callao what undertook a moment, then Rodil had used a condom
to become open sources arms.

Galician Rodil was born in Santa Maria del Trovo.

Student at the University of Santiago de Galicia, where he studied law, he left the cloisters
together with other schoolchildren, and in 1808 enlisted in the battalion of cadets literary. In April
1817 he arrived in Peru with the rank of first assistant of the regiment of the Prince. Soon promoted
to commander, was entrusted with the formation of the battalion Arequipa. Rodil was sworn in
recruits the lonely isle of the Scorpion, in front of Arica, where
he spent months disciplining, until Osorio took him to Chile.

Rodil attended there, sending the body that was created to battles of Talca, Cancharrayada and Maipú.

He
returned to Peru, taking an active part in the campaign against the Patriots, and was wounded
in the July 7, 1822 in fighting Pucarán.

To undertake political and military government of Callao, in 1824, Brigadier José Ramón Rodil, he
found himself decorated with crosses of Somorso, Espinosa de los
Monteros, San Payo, Tuman, Medina del Campo, Tarifa, Pamplona and
Cancharrayada, crosses testified battles he had been fortunate to
be among the winners.

Besieged by Callao Bolivar's troops, under General Salom, and the
patriot squadron, which had a 171 guns, was truly Herculean strength.

The history records for Rodil, decorous surrender January 23, 1826, when the Spanish commander
bravo, great dress uniform, with honors, left the castle to embark on the frigate Briton English war.
General La Mar, which was, to use a happy expression Inca Garcilaso, a gentleman gentleman
in all things, a tribute on this occasion just tribute to the courage and loyalty of Rodil,
which since 1 March 1824, which replaced to Casariego in command of Callao, until January
1826, almost no day passed without fighting.

Rodil was during the siege to deploy a wonderful activity, a ruse without limits and an undeniable
power to stifle plots. In just one day shot thirty-six conspirators act of cruelty that surrounded
him terrifying and even awed respect. One of those shot on that occasion was Frasquito Andalusian
popular boy for his jokes and witticisms, and Rodil was the scribe.

General Canterac (how sadly died in 1835 in Madrid to appease a mutiny in barracks) was commissioned
by Viceroy Conde de los Andes to celebrate the Treaty of Ayacucho, and It provided for the immediate
surrender of the castles. Upon receiving the letter Rodil or trade which he transcribed Canterac
capitulation article concerning Callao, exclaimed angrily: - Canario! She capitulates to let
them beat, and not me. "Abogaderas me?

While you have gunpowder and bullets, I do not dimes or diretes with those p. .. icaros insurgents.

II

During
the siege shot the Bellavista camp occupied by the Patriots, 9553 cannonballs, 454 bombs, 908
grenades and 34,713 dead of shrapnel, causing the besiegers the death of seven officers and one
hundred and two individuals of troops, and six officers and sixty two soldiers wounded. The
Patriots, meanwhile, walked no short answer, and launched on the strengths 20,327 cannonballs,
317 pumps and untold shrapnel.

At first the site had Rodil in castles a garrison of 2,800 soldiers and the day of capitulation had
only 376 men in the state to handle a gun. The rest had succumbed to the rigors of the plague
and the Republican bullets. On the streets of Callao, where spent a year earlier to 8,000 asylum
seekers or supporters of the king, barely reached 700 souls who witnessed
the outcome of the site. According to Garcia Camba, was 6,000 victims
scurvy and 767 of those who died fighting.

In the first months of
the site, expelled from the square Rodil 2,389 people. The Lima government
decided not to admit more expelled, and saw himself the fierce spectacle
of unhappy women who could pass Miranaves camp or return to the plaza,
because of both parties the refused to death. The unfortunate were
between two fires and suffer anguish impossible to tell by human pen.
Here's what he says on this point in Rodil curious manifesto he published
in Spain, without reaching certainly forgive a vicarious any sense
of humanity.

"I needed people to suspend reduce consumption they
could not recover, I ordered those who could not survive with its
provisions or industry saliesen of Callao. This order was carried
out with prudence, steadily and successfully. The news of the first
who emigrated was encouraging that lacked resources to live in the
population, and I downloaded four months of 2,389 useless mouths.
The enemy, to the fourteenth migration of them, they knew that their
conservation would damage me, and tempted to admit no effort inhuman.
I the decisively repelled. "

Needless to make findings on these lines
are in the consciousness of all spirits generous. If unworthy and
alien to the barbaric character of the Peruvians was compassionate
besieging the conduct of no less reprehensible find the trial's conduct
in history Governor of the square