 New fans and new amazement. Thesis also extremely well here, and even suspect
that I lied a little, but within the plausible and pardonable. Lo bed near dawn and rise after
midday to stay at home until the evening, I marveled as much as swallow nest soup and fried
legs frog.

- Mary my Mother! - Lita cried upon hearing it - because if these people never see ever the sun,
so what is he can see the happy and fattening? I think that's living against the law.

- Vice, daughter, vice - insisted Mari Pepa -; habit of not knowing
what jacerse in a life so spoiled.

Lita asked me if I also had 'over there' these bad habits, I replied
that yes, and I said, all comments, with a truly naive and infantile
simplicity:

- Well, be good rascal you ... Right, mom?

I celebrated the saying with a laugh no less naive, then giving thanks for the compliment, about the
same time responding to the question Mari Pepa:

- Who knows, daughter of soul, who knows? Jaz who eat "nial" swallow unruptured of "doubt",
you can jacerse to live that way without offending God or break your health.

With the exception of his mother Lita was very red, and he wanted me he could amend like his
impertinence, and I, without leaving conclusion, paved the way for your wishes offering it to
boot a statement, not devoid of sincerity, of my great disappointments.

-
It would happen about now - I objected Mari Pepa - when one was married,
to live as God intended.

What the heck want to know and possible when they are lonely monsoon
family open house?

... Well, look, Don Marcelo, said that for these houses, close-knit
they are, whenever the devil has a key.

- You can have it - I said
I was very formal - but in mine never entered.

- Jorrios, trapacerón
of satanincas!

Released after the laughter, and dropped it while Lita. I help them with another, by the grace I did
both, and then began the "mince" and shootings that could not miss there, among the three. Because
these riddles are innate in women of all castes and latitudes; and put them all in the same
situation, all except the differences of place and style come to dig in the grounds and with
its own aims. Always initiatives and force of daring, the cunning and tenacity, the mother,
the subject studied, the ill-concealed curiosity, eloquent silence,
looking sideways, the punctured subtle, daughter