 

Made and their delicate and pathetic confidences felt more relieved and serene, and available
resigned to fulfill the promise to bring that night and Ines Beatriz to Jardines del Buen
Retiro.

VII

Dramatic poets have to talk to their characters according to the nature, condition and passions
that they represent, but in such a narrow box, such as a drama, there is good how to put corrective
to the evil doctrines or statements that such immoral characters may issue. So dramatic poets
poor fluctuate between two rocks. Or converted to their heroes and heavy annoying preachers,
or, if allowed to speak as that naturally inspires passion, commit to respond to posterity,
and if their works do not go that far, to his contemporaries, all losses, delusions and dreams
that forcibly put into the mouths of the children of his imagination, heated and vehement. Thus,
for illustrious example of this, we quote Euripides, who, since ancient times, have accused of
corrupting. We know that Caesar, in order to justify all the insolence and wickedness that
he used to seize the dictatorship, often repeated some verses of
tragic mentioned.

I am generally very opposed to teach anything entertaining works of literature, and a thousand
times opposite if highest education is sinful. For this I write novels, not drama. In novel
explanations fit all: achieving poison antidote is administered.

The author may take the floor in the middle of the narrative and contradict his characters,
mitigating or followed by drowning in the bad effect that the views of any of them were produced.

Taking
advantage of this permit, and to quiet my conscience, scrupulous tired, I have now speak of Don
Braulio and his letter, which contains risky propositions certainly
and that, believed by the naive reader might pervert one of the ugliest
perversions known: the genius considered understood exceed unjustly
neglected.

Don Braulio worked as a black in office, passed by an employee honest and intelligent and not discovered
his genius or semigenio fumes but as quietly as his closest friend.

Proudly served his theory of comfort, or at least relief, in certain bitterness and suspicion,
tormented him cruelly, without knowing yet how much had Beatriz reason for this.

Don Braulio, finally, if deemed victim, did not blame society as a whole, nor any individual uniquely,
but assumed that all emanated, by fatally and inevitably of the same kind of things.

In sum, Mr. Braulio, melancholy temperament, little favored by fortune, and love and jealous
not know who, perhaps delirious forging theories, but would not let such theories transcended into
practice, and seemed, in view of more lynx, as an employee modest
I knew all that mattered was to know and care as do to earn the salary
conscience and not defraud the public purse or take the hospice offices
for people frock coat or privileged beggars.

As for the theory itself, there is little to say against, but here we will not philosophize, but
to narrate. I will say, however, that even assuming that each degree of culture that society
is coming only require a certain degree of understanding for the practical and daily, and other
grades are entirely superfluous, useless and even harmful, except
in exceptional cases, still will have to concede that the understanding
is not the only power the soul that goes to the man to be achieved,
the will, character, also fall by much.

Moreover, the understanding, in essence, is similar to God nobody sees, nobody know, nobody
but reverence and respect in their work. So Don Braulio, or any another might have more than
20 degrees of understanding, in their feelings, were necessary or convenient for the practical,
but when plus, when this surplus is not intellectual says nothing, but ruin the understanding that
is in use, there is no reason to complain that the world does not applaud or awe of the invisible
and hidden that can not fathom, nor penetrate, nor fathom. Who knows if the self-deceiving and
makes many people believe that have that understanding excessive and unnecessary, and may not
have but a superlative dose fatuity? And if love does not deceive himself, if in fact we have
such superior understanding and do not reach favorable circumstances is shown, it is best to keep quiet,
resigned and live as men live less clear, with no claim to genius, but by working humbly to make
a living, trying to equal footing with vulgar beings, and reserving the upper understanding
to talk to God or supernatural beings, or inner conversation with yourself, if you do not believe
anything the semigenio, or whether, despite their mental status, no angels nor deign to descend
from the sky deities of Olympus, or to take with him awhile of gab.

I'm going to put in case the life of Spinoza. This will explain better my idea. Let us imagine that this
wise not have written his philosophical works, for whatever reason had been carried to the grave
the secret of his admirable, if misplaced, fitness for deeper speculation metaphysical. It
is clear that this extraordinary man overwhelmed by its sublime and strange thoughts would not
have been in practical life or rich manufacturer, or merchant blissful and astute politician, and
nothing in this order, but had worked on polishing glass for lenses or make shoes, or any other
office or need a mechanic, and had not taken in pretense of being the genius to be a bum without
a job or benefit, and what is worse, not a bum fun and enjoyable,
but a vague whining and crying or maldicente, caustic and poisonous
like snakes.

Apologize, then, or at least we indulge our Don Braulio, whose pride
was hidden in the center of the soul, revealing only the most intimate
of his friends at the moment in which also showed the deepest wounds
of his heart.

Don Braulio had felt the need to trust their sentences to a friend,
in order not to drown; but otherwise this confidence, if something
was sinned by by concentrated and full of dissimulation.

His wife had not noticed this annoyance, that suspicion that suffocating the soul.

His wife seemed to love him, but his happy nature and his early youth the excited the joy and
drove to work to distract and amuse.

Beatriz was not wasted, but ordered and economic.

It was, yes, ambitious and friend luxury and finery, and although not envy nor tormented despite
seeing other women, less attractive and less distinguished by nature, wear jewels, silks and
lace, go by car and surrounded by the bright halo that offers luxury beauty, longing enjoy all this
and could not quite hide her husband.

From here the pain and the starting point of the suspicions of Don Braulio.

If Don Braulio had not loved his wife, if he believed this longing irrational whim, may have cared
little of everything, but Don Braulio loved her, and also claims to be so consider the things
of life, Dona Beatriz had plenty of reason to covet. His desire, but take her to the end sorry for him,
was, he founded, and founded involuntary, fatal, accurate.

Don Braulio blamed himself, and not blame Dona Beatriz. Why had Dona Beatriz loved? Why had
married him? It was so cute and so young nor so handsome, neither as rich nor as glorious, it
was only by the higher understanding, he had seduced. If this understanding is evaporated, if good
for nothing, if he doubted Beatriz and perhaps rightly, what basis he had to keep loving Don Braulio?
Before ground was to hate.

Although it is a bad comparison, anyone who is not insane, buy a rich cup China, an artistic
Sevres porcelain vase to put in the yard and throw it bran to eat the chickens. For this is more
than enough with a basin or a tinajón of Lucena. The glass art requires putting on a beautiful
lounge where: Pilgrim asked that flowers look at him.

Thus, a woman was asking Beatriz estate, gift, grace, worship, incense ride in the car, not walk,
to live in a palace, not in a third floor, not hidden among the vulgar,
but shine in the highest society.

In thinking about this Don Braulio always said to himself: "Why I
married her?"

And he he answered it already said in the letter to Paco Ramírez: "I loved her, and this explains
everything; she loved me, maybe she still loves me, his love, even if it was only a day, compensates
all the evils that I feel and older can come. "

With these feelings hidden within, Don Braulio, seemingly happy and even joyful, took his wife
and his sister to the Gardens at about nine o'clock at night.

Both were on their blanket, dark silk dresses, nothing garish and dissonant color or ornaments,
with an innate elegance that is exuded as a perfume of the same simplicity
and modesty of their dress.

Don Braulio was in his, though clean, fed neglected.

His coat and hat were fashion the way for eight or ten years. His black tie was a little shabby,
and neck shirt, straight and on a large, nearly reached his ears.

Beatriz half had fought with her husband to make him carry lower collars
and buy new hat and new coat.

I could not get. "What?" - Said Don Braulio -. Mr. hobbies more. So when I was young, and
I will not change. So I fell in love, so I wanted to, so you married me. "

Doña Beatriz did not know what to say after all, was silent, and let
go as you don Braulio wanted.

That night, therefore, made no comment on the suit of Mr. Braulio,
but not left to tie it graceful loop of the tie, or stroking her hair,
put ointment and combing the best she could.

The three took a stroller with mustache and went to the Gardens. Along the way, said Don Braulio:

-
I think, and I'm sorry that you are going to annoy. We have no friends. Do not even have known.
In the midst of the hubbub going to be like a desert. Who is to tell? Who is to approach us?

-
Men, do not worry for so little - answered Dona Beatriz -.

If you do not know anybody, if no one speaks, well that neither you nor I know yet of memory.
Talk, we tell new things, we shall the gathering of the three, we'll hear the music and cool.

- To take the air - said Don Braulio - the same is to go there than
the Prado.

- And still save money for the tickets - Beatriz said.

Ines was silent, and left to continue the dialogue between husband and wife.

- I do not mean expenditure poverty, Beatriz. You know that I'm not mean, though I am poor.

- I know. I suspect not think it hurts to spend money on gifts. I say no irony. I say this only
to realize that, view things as you see them, is silly go to the
Gardens, but I, and Agnes certainly more than I see them through another
prism.

We like to see people, but not repaired by us. The animation, joy, entertainment Luxury recreate
us. Although we do not forge the illusion or hope or even desire be seen and admired, want
to see and admire the show, the beauty and elegance of others.

-
You're right, my dear, you're right.

I forget you're a girl. Your tastes are as a girl. Mal did in marrying
a man ... and an old poor and obscure.

Would you be called and held for you, leaving your husband in his
dark and poverty?

Would you that I came to be known as the husband of Dona Beatriz?

- I do not want, or that is possible. Everyone who knows me will know you, and, knowing, estimarte
can not but by what you're worth that much, and not because you are my husband. Those who are
known only as husbands is because otherwise they do not deserve to
be.

No one would remember of them but for their wives. As for your age, your darkness and your poverty,
I fall in love again, well you know, that youth, brilliance and wealth
in any other.

If something is worth my love, it bathes your soul and feel rejuvenated.

Do not talk to me sometimes the sweet light of my eyes?

For lights that light your darkness. Did not you say that my love
is a treasure?

Well, how dare you, ungrateful, to argue that you're poor?

Don Braulio, who was sitting in the mustache, hearing phrases such
as loving mouth linda could not contain his excitement, he burst into
tears, holding the hand of his wife, kissed passionately.

Doña Beatriz in her hand felt a tear fell on it to give the kiss Don Braulio.

Then Beatriz said:

- Now, now ... let's not childish.

Do not test me now because you are old, but children are much more than me. Let us rejoice, and let's
have fun serenémonos far as possible. Let us apply to this case the
proverb that says: "In the poor house burst better no excess.

"It is necessary to get good juice to pesetillas we're going to spend. Well not so! It would
be wasteful spending and not make fun of course.

Don Braulio calmed down following the advice of his wife tried to smile and appear happy, and
even excited Inesita his wife and to have fun.

Thus came to the Garden, took notes and entered.

VIII

That night in the Gardens had more people than usual.

Some sat in chairs in groups, dances and small gatherings, others were turning by the circular
walk, at whose center is the kiosk of the orchestra. This touching, with enough Masters, the
final round of Cenerentola.

Our Don Braulio and girls did not see a single familiar face.

Instead of sitting began to rotate through this competition.

Don Braulio soon noticed that although no one knew, was not the same one that accompanied walk women
as beautiful.

That was far from looking like a desert.

Often, especially when passing groups of men, reached the ears of Don Braulio vague murmurs
flattering, and occasional words and even whole sentences of admiration and commendable.

In Spain, I will not get to moralize about it or to decide whether it is right or wrong, but
men without believing that offend, often woo the way to the ladies, in particular when they
are alone.

On this occasion, or not look at Don Braulio, or give little importance to him, judge or distracted
and not hear, and Ines Beatriz collected good crop of compliments.

Both made the collection such as cold and impassive dignity, soon,
as if Word's out that these creatures did not ask for war, the compliments
ended, but not ended the open road as they passed them.

Also followed the buzz of excitement and sympathy.

They had already given three times our girls, when a group of young elegant spotted both at the
same time the Count of Alhedín.

Inesita kept his composure Olympic Beatriz became very red.

- Did you see the Condesito? - Told Inesita ear.

- Ay, ay, what are you wearing red!

Another new wave of blood red rose then the face of Dona Beatriz, who became more colorful.

- You are like a poppy - Ines said.

The group who had seen the Count coming toward them from the front. The count was no doubt
happen next. Who knows if they speak? Who knows if we will say a word bold, Don Braulio hear?
Perhaps this suspicion was as red as Dona Beatriz.

The unique thing was that the Count suddenly disappeared from the group, which, to meet our heroines,
was opened to let them pass, hearing both sides flattering and respectful murmurs, similar to
those of other people had already heard them.

Ines said the cloth to his sister:

- Where has slipped the Condesito?

- Who knows - Beatriz said.

- Well, sister, I can not tell with your eyes all that I recommended last night to tell him.

They had not gone a long way after this short dialogue, when they
saw a circle, where many people were sitting, stood up and said a
lady elegant, although somewhat buxom.

There was thickened, and retained their thinness and much of its beauty, despite the years.
Was not galas, the place unfit for public, but all I was wearing was exquisite taste, rich without
being gaudy.

Instead of the blanket had hat. His face was funny. His complexion rosy, if somewhat brown. On
his face two beautiful spots, like two clumps of bamboo in a meadow flowers. His eyes, large and fulmineo,
flashed more thanks to the fence that was dark painted her eyelids. His waist was majestic pair
lightweight and flexible. In short, all the poise and appearance
of this lady who was a lionne denote a real salience of the court.

What was the astonishment of Agnes and Beatrice when they realized they had been smitten salience
them! A gentleman of twenty to thirty years, carrying a coat and with a little box followed her like
a lacayuelo.
Just got the lady stood before Beatrice looked at her tenderly, and
exclaimed: "Dear mine! "threw her arms around his neck and kissed
her on both cheeks.

Beatrice stood for a moment looking for anyone
who touched her. Recognizing at last he said: "Rosita, 'and he paid
her kisses with others.

Perhaps the patient reader curious to know
and remember the story of Dr. Faustino has fallen into who was Rosita.
Rosita Gutierrez was the famous daughter of the clerk of Villabermeja,
that makes such an important role in that history. [*]

[*: See The
Illusions of Doctor Faustino novel.]

Rosita seemed immortal, as preserved.
Far from losing with age, could ensure I had won.

Little by little
had been molding and adjusting for such art to the use of the most
elegant Madrid, which hardly anyone dared not call her the "Queen
of kitsch," which was given that initially gave him.

Her husband
had business wise, and had also benefited more. Both spouses had become
very aristocratic, religious and conservative. Idolized Pius IX, had
a title Roman. Condes de San Teódulo were. Had been in devout pilgrimage
to Lourdes and Rome and then had brought several relics of that holy,
which had been one of the six thousand martyrs of the Theban Legion,
and by that, it was proven with evidence that was natural of the greatest
people in the district where Rosita's husband used to go deputy. With
the relics brought by the pilgrims said the effigy of San Teódulo,
and everything carried the village, where there was an immense joy
and celebrations boisterous. Nothing more natural, after this, that
Rosita and her husband were to become Condes de San Teódulo. 

However,
not content with being Condes them by Rome, were eager to be Marquis
in Castile and it had long sought with eagerness. Meanwhile, complying
with the saying of 'Child not have, and we name it "had pondered a
lot and played more the counts on name that was to have the Marquis.
They agreed the two in which the name was to be the in some rural
property they possessed, but, unfortunately, the husband's farm Rosita
was impossible. They called: The Biznaga, The Hinojal and The Macuca.
It was not safe with titles such ugly head. They resolved, therefore,
that on a farm titled Rosie called Camarena, and I dreamed of being
Marquis de Camarena, settling soon as San Teódulo County, Theban and
Andalusian martyr at a time, which, here is understood as understood,
involves no contradiction.

Entitled Rosita, and more rich and prosperous
than ever, develop in his soul felt love more pure to the letters
and the arts. He called his rooms to artists and poets, and became
a Lorenza as a Patron of the Magnificent or female.

As for the former
cursería, we said that no one dared hardly accuse her of this defect;
defect, moreover, so vague and undefinable, which is almost always
the criterion of People find him or not finding the others. What does
happen, usually, is that allegations are mutual. No subject is given
only when he described someone corny, do more than pay, it is uncertain
whether he qualified for qualifying mouth full of the same.

Is this
because it is a quality cursería indeterminate and confusing? I think
not, because I noticed that it does the same with certain other qualities
sick. Whenever I've heard a woman talk about the amorous intrigues
of the intricacies and tricks of the others I've seen that she told
the other a thousand times. And on the lips of anyone with whom I
have referred thousand horrors underhand behavior in public employment,
I have also heard diatribes stronger accusing the others of the same
peccadillo