 Doña Manolita mimicked Dona
Luz in dress and hairstyle, and followed or where the name came. Dona said Manolita that was
it for Dona Luz which for the gallants of the swashbuckling comedy footman funny, and recalling
that several of the best comedies this lackey was called Moth, Dona Luz said: "Child, I am your
Moth."

Respect to D. Acisclo thought Dona Luz as her father, and not kept the former manager inquinia
the slightest, because it had raised nearly all the wealth of their elders. If The Marquis had
insisted on ruining what it sinned D. Acisclo? With some moral convoluted, Don Acisclo could not
know, maybe he saved the interests of the marquis perhaps would have done last another few years
the splendor of the house, but this request in those places was to order popcorn in the Gulf. Enough,
then, Dona Luz, to be profoundly grateful to D. Acisclo, the firm persuasion that entertained, that
any manager with another from there, the ruin of his father had been ten years earlier, and she
had not raised as an elegant lady, within the well-being, with English governess, and all care
due. God knows how it was raised and what it would have been ruined if the marquis berrenchín and
dies, leaving her an orphan aged five years and not fifteen.

Well liked Luz D. Acisclo.

Sympathized with their activity, with a love of work and other virtues that he shone.

For the good-looking, Dona Luz had lived, without any attempt at going home, home Don Acisclo,
until he was twenty. From then on, he tried several Sometimes going to live alone at home, but
D. Acisclo held her gently and lovingly. Gave him to understand that it would be a sadness
only after getting used to his company, and called also, somewhat grotesquely, what they say,
arguing that was a girl and Dona Luz was not walking free as old
maid, who was good and severe, if lived alone, had to say it was a
cow's bell.

Doña Luz, far from being offended, laughed at this comparison ungallant,
and continued to live in the home of former manager.

On the other hand, the independence of Dona Luz was perfect.

Three or four rooms belonged to him alone in the house, and were furnished with most exquisite taste.
They did not come from the four daily but close friends and referrals: Joan the Maid, one of the
body of the house, which was cleaning under the supervision of Juana, in order not to break an
object of art or fine furniture, and, finally, other three beings, who were also semi - close Dona
Luz, and who completed or closed their circle family. Were these three beings Thomas the old
servant, and as his squire and companion when she went on horseback Uncle Blas, overseer of
the lady, who was meant to care property, which she ran and were
improving to the point where it produced about 20,000 rs. in some
years of good harvest, and the greyhound Palomo, white giant in its
class, and terrible genius to whom it seemed to him that upset or
offended her love, with which it was all gentleness, meekness and
gentleness.

In addition to the normal society, not Dona Luz refused to attend other more broadly based. The
sons, daughters, daughters and sons of D. Acisclo, with flooding and numerous offspring, their
consuegro and Consuegra, godfathers and godmothers, formed a crowd
with whom it was necessary to switch.

All they were insignificant and not very funny, they were neither bad nor good, and Dona Luz
was miracles of diplomacy in order not to treat and not anger them much either.

In the days of the holy birthday of each individual to the family
of D. Acisclo had patriarchal food in the house, and dance fuss.

Luz excuse not to attend such functions, and almost always right
to leave on all of your kindness and joy.

-V-

Dona friendship Manolita

Dona
Luz's life was, however, so regular, so monotonous, so no accidents
to differentiate few days from other days, who had spent years, and
in memory of her was as a dream shooting, where everything was confused.

This

is for any spell of peace. For Dona Luz still had more charm.

The agitated his mind with thoughts, desires or their will or passions,
it was strange the world around her, coming from an ideal world, where
no space or time.

So that while Dona Luz, not distinguished in this from other men,
not thought or felt all at once, as the causes of his thinking and
his deep feeling were not marked point on our planet, and time marked
on the timeline, effects are also subtracted laws of succession and
the place and it seemed that they were given in a lifetime move.
