 

No less anger kept the rest of the nation, since it had reconciled with the literati. You are
a foreigner, he said to the wise man who spoke, and it will show of crowd abuse, while you hide
the well hidden, and that often these same abuses it. He knew then that there was among many who
were not writers envious and even among some who were virtuous wizards. Finally understood that these
large bodies clashes with its apparently preparing common ruin, were in fact beneficial foundations;
each association of wizards was a brake on his rivals, for if sometimes these differed from opinion, all
teach the same morals, who taught the people and subject to the laws, such Zelan the preceptors
that the children at home, while the master Zela them. Treatment many, and found among them heavenly
souls, and knew that among those same crazy they wanted to bring war to the Grand Lama, had
great men. I suspect they could after same thing Persepolis customs of their buildings, which
had seemed a worthy of pity, and others had overwhelmed in astonishment.

One day he said to the writer: Now I know that the Magi, which had
been so dangerous, can be very helpful, especially Quando a prudent
government that hinders grange Influx left:? but profits may result
from the colossal wealth of the contractors and agents of the Treasury?

That same day saw the opulence of these, which had so disgusted, sometimes produces much fruit,
because having the sovereign needed money, I find in one hour through him as through regular
channels in six months had not found, and conventional that these brown clouds, fed with the dew of
the earth, I returned in rain what they received them: besides that the children of these new men,
usually more well educated than those of the oldest families, worth more than these, because having
a father a good calculator does not remove a judge who is right, brave soldier, and skilled statesman.

Slowly
forgive Babuca greed of the settlement, which in reality is neither more nor less greedy than
the others, and is indispensable; apologized to dispel his madness flow for war, that war was
the source of many exploits, and forgave the jealousy of writers, among whom were sugetos illustrating
the world is reconciled with ambitious magicians and stagehands,
who gathered with small vices great virtues, since you were not unscrupulous,
especially on wooing the ladies, and the horrendous consequeencias
that inevitably had to produce, and filled him with horror and fright.

Wanting to examine all statements made to bring him home from a minister, and on the way would
see a woman shaking her husband murdered by his presence. I get to third base of the statesman,
and spent two hours waiting for Dixer he was there, and other two after they had said, by this
time very firm purpose to recommend the minister and his insolent anger of the angel concierges
Ituriel. Was the crowded waiting room ladies of all kinds of wizards
of all colors, judges, merchants, officials and pedantic everyone
was complaining to the minister.

They said the greedy and profiteers: There is no doubt that this guy steals the provinces; disfigured
his flamboyant oddities, said the only sensual has had his tastes, and hoped the women would soon
replace him another minister more handsome.

Babuca heard all these reasons, and could not say, iQue is this man so happy! All your enemies have
them in your waiting room, their power overwhelms their envy, and looks quantos plants to hate him.
At last came into his cabinet, and saw an old man overwhelmed of years and chores, but still
alive, and very smart. Babuca Gustole because it seemed Babuca one worthy of esteem sugeto. The
conference was very interesting: the minister confessed it was most unfortunate man, who had by
rich and poor was, that he believed omnipotent and all was impaired,
that all benefits had been paid with ingratitude, and in forty years
of continuous tasks had been just a bit of satisfaction.

Enterneciose Babuca, and said among themselves that if he had made some mistakes this man,
and they loved him Ituriel punish angel, dexarle enough to charge, not exterminate.

I was arguing with the minister, when I enter the beautiful lady inattentive in whose house had Babuca
eaten, showing his face and eye symptoms of pain and anger. Burst out in bitter complaints against
the statesman, shed tears, lamented bitterly that her husband had denied a charge that could achieve
on its cradle, and that they made him creditor his wounds and services and speak with so much energy,
complained with such grace, faded with mana such objections, provided eloqueencia strengthened their
reasons, that left the cabinet until having the fortune of her husband.

Salio Babuca giving his hand and said to him: Is it possible, madam, that you have taken so much
work you by a man who you want, and how much you have to be afraid? ? How is it you do not love
him? replied the lady, know that my husband is the best friend I have in this world, and that
sacrificeth quanto by all I have, as it is not my lover to do the same thing, less sacrifice his
sweetheart. I want you to know it, it's a very nice lady, very quiet, and excellent genius
had dinner tonight with my husband and my friend the magician: come to join our taste.

She took the lady with him Babuca, and the husband who was plunged into deep grief over received
to his wife in a fit of gratitude and joy, give thousand hugs to his wife, his lady, the magician,
and Babuca. The banquet is encouraged by the happy, thanks and Donayre. Know, he told him the beautiful
lady who was having dinner, which is sometimes described as almost always women without honor
possess the virtues of an honest man, and in proof of this, come dine with me tomorrow home of the
beautiful Theon. Some old Vestal whisper it, but most charities do that together herself that the
bite; not commit the slightest injustice all interests in the world,
to her lover gives advice always generous, just glory by it, and would
blush if their presence on one occasion broken? to do good, because
there is no greater stimulus to virtuous actions, which have the judge
and witness of his conduct which longs for a beloved one to deserve
appreciation.

Do not miss Babuca the appointment, and saw a house that was the emporium of delights. They
queen Teona, with each spoke the language he understood: his natural understanding dwell dexaba that
of others; liked almost without meaning was so kind and charitable, and to give more luster
all his skills, was very beautiful.

Babuca met since it was Scythian and sent by a genius, if more time stopped in Persepolis, Teona
would make him forget Ituriel. Affection took the city whose residents were friendly, courteous
and good, but gossips, frivolous and vain. Feared Whether it was ordered to Persepolis, and
even feared the bill that would give.

Did so to give it the following: statutory command to the best of people, who founded a small
statue, made of all metals, and land and most precious stones and more vile, and it took Ituriel.
? You will make pieces, said to him, this beautiful statue, it is not all gold and diamonds? Comprehended
Ituriel emblem, and was determined not to amend or even try to Persepolis,
and dexar that walked the world as it goes, "If all is not well, at
least everything is tolerable.

Persisted as Persepolis, and Babuca was far from complaining, as did Jonas that anger that
was not destroyed Nineveh. True, who has spent three days in the womb of a whale, do not spend
such a good mood as he has been in the works, in comedy, and have dinner with people from
fine deal.

End Babuca vision.

* * * * *

Memnon

HUMAN or sanity.

He placed on the head one day Memnon the wrongheaded idea of ??being
completely sane, that few There are men who have not passed through
the head like crazy.

       Memnon went thus: For be very sane and very happy consequeencia,
simply drag dexarse ??no passions: something very easy, as everyone
knows.

First, I will never love any woman, and seeing dire finished a beauty
inside me: One day is the face wrinkling; this turgid and round chest
has to turn soft and straight, that as well populated bald head has
to stay: and just look at me now as I see then, so that pretty head
is not it makes me lose mine.

Secondly, I will always be sober, but I tempted by the candy, exquisite wines and the incentive
of society. I is listed the result of gluttony, head charged stomach upset, loss of reason,
health and time, and so only eat what need, I will enjoy sound health, and will always clear and
bright ideas. Thing is this so easy, it is not worthwhile to get away with it.

Then continued Memnon, one must not neglect their flow: my desires are moderate, I have my money
that I feel good yields and good bonds held by the General Treasurer
of Nineveh, and I need to live without depending on anyone, which
is the greatest fortune, because he never I see you in the cruel precision
of going to kiss the hands of courtiers, no one will envy, and I'll
be the envy of anyone, if not more easy.

I have friends, he said finally, and he remains, it never makes bad third; not ever be angry
with me, nor I with them, even in This provides difficulty.

Formed so its planecico of moderation and hike for its fourth, is Memnon hint to the window and
saw two ladies who went through streets of bananas, which had immediate
home.

Was old one, and not afflicted apparently nothing, the other girl was cute and had traces of be
very sorrowful, sighing, and crying, and that it gave him more grace. Hastened away much our
wise, not with the beauty of the lady (he was sure not to surrender to this weakness) but if
by the despair in which the track. Baxo, and approached the young Ninevites, with the intention
of prudent to give consolation. Contol is beautiful with the most naive and tender expression
of damage it to a guy who had not, with that device had been deprived of a flow that never had
possessed, and fears that caused his outbursts.

You seem to me prudent man said to him, and if I hicierais Please come to my house, and discuss
my issues, I am certain that I sacariais the cruel predicament I see. Memnon did not hesitate
to camp out for maturely discuss its affairs, and give good advice.

The bereaved lady brought him a well-scented toilet, and forced him to sit very courteous sofa on
a dock, where they were cross-legged facing each other. The lady spoke Eye shoals, Quando Quando
in it were the tears, and when the up, always ran into the eyes of sane Memnon. His reasons were loving
too much, and much more Quando both looked. Memnon took to heart his affairs, and every moment
growing up in the desire to serve the beautiful and unhappy person. With the warmth of the conversation
dexaron little by little found opposite each other, and having crossed legs, advising Memnon so
closely, and being so affectionate advice, that neither could speak affairs, and knew where they
were.

While in this comes, as the reader has imagined, the uncle, came armed qual to the nines, and
the first thing he said was he would kill, as was just, the wise Memnon and his niece, and the last
thing that could forgive, if given a lot of money. Saw himself pointed Quanto Memnon had to
give, and thanks to those fortunate times worse had not result to fear that even America was
not discovered, nor were the beautiful women afflicted as dangerous as now.

Confused and desperate Memnon was returned to his home, where he found a note inviting me to
intimate dinner with some friends.

If I stay home alone, he said, will have concerns with the mood my sad adventures, eating, and
falling evil, but it make a frugal meal with my friends intimate, and with his pleasant company
to forget the nonsense that this morning I made. Was to treat, and seeing that I was a bit sad,
he was forced to drank to dispel his melancholy. The wine used in moderation is medicine for
the encouragement and for the body, so I thought the wise Memnon, and got drunk. Proponenle desktop
play a hand: a game where you go through recently, is an innocent
diversion.

Play and win him quanto had in his pocket, and four times more about his word. Give rise to
a dispute about the game, the spirits irritans, throws one of his intimate friends a cup head
you take out an eye, and bring home the wise Memnon drunk, penniless, and with an eye less.

Having
slept a little wolf, sent his servant to house the treasurer general of income Nineveh, to
give him money to pay his close friends, and the servant brings new that that morning had made a bad
faith bankruptcy debtor, with the qual dexaba by doors a hundred families. Memnon be spiteful
palace with a eye patch and a memorial in hand, asking for justice to the king of the bankrupt,
and is in a room with many ladies, all backwards like tops with elegant tontillos twenty feet
in circumference, and gowns thirty tail. One that he knew something, he said the sideways facing
you: iJesus, how awful! Y another that he knew more: Good afternoon, sir Memnon, really, I'm
glad Mr. Memnon much to see you:? like that you are one-eyed, Mr.
Memnon? and said this, he left without waiting for response.

Agazapose Memnon in a corner, waiting to be able to throw at the feet of the monarch. His Majesty
arrived, Memnon kiss the ground three times, and gave his memorial, which took the sovereign
with great kindness, and handed him one of his lieutenants, to give her account. Call The
satrap of Memnon aside, and says in a tone of mockery and gesture of insult: Donoso eyed you are,
because you dare to give the king a memorial that has not passed through my hands, and you commit
to it the bombing of a failed demand justice honored that this Baxo my fortress, and nephew
a maid service to my dear. Do not give more step in the matter, at your peril good eye you
have left.

Thus, having given up in the morning Memnon of girls, of feasting, games, of contention, and
most of the palace before nightfall had been deceived and cheated by a herniosa lady, had drunk,
he had played, he had an eye removed, and had been to the palace where he had laughed at him.

Confused,
lost, and surrendered to the weight of his sorrow he was returning home half dead, and going to
enter, he found it full of sheriffs and clerks who carried the furniture behalf of its creditors.
Paros almost meaningless vnder a banana, and meets the lovely lady that morning, which was still
walking around with her beloved uncle, and could not be have to laugh at the sight of Memnon with
his patch.

Night fell, and lay down on a heap Memnon straw, near the walls of his house Entrol fever,
is lethargic with the strength of her and appeared in a dream a heavenly spirit, And he shone
like the sun, and had six beautiful wings but no feet, no head or tail, and not like any thing.
Who are you? Memnon said to him

.