 The rest I gave to Pep and the shotgun to his son, laughing at the gesture of the little seminary
to be present, coming a bit late ... And would hunt with it when a priest was of the paddocks
of the island.

Took out from his pocket the letter Valls, taking pleasure in reading it slowly, as if increasingly
found in his text news. As I read these paragraphs, which were already family, his mind worked
apart impulses of joy. Good friend Paul! And what in time came his advice! ... He drew from Ibiza
in the most opportune moment, when looked at open war with all those rude people who wanted the
death of a stranger. The captain was not mistaken. What was there, as Robinson, who could not even
enjoy the tranquility of solitude? ... Valls, timely as always, fought
the danger.

His life of hours earlier when he had not received the letter, it seemed absurd and ridiculous .. Now
it was another man. Smiling with pity and shame that crazy that the day before, leading the shotgun
over his shoulder, had taken the path of the mountain to look for a former inmate, challenging
him to savage fighting in the lonely forest. As if all life on earth was concentrated on the small
island and had to kill to be in it! ... As if had no life or civilization beyond the blue sheet
surrounding this piece of land, with primitive human group soul, petrified in the customs of
other ages! This was the last night of wild life. The next day, everything that happened it would
not be than an agglomeration of interesting memories, with whose
story could entertain your friends Borne.

Febrer cut suddenly thought, separating the eyes from the paper. Having found her eyes half
of the room in shadow and half in a reddish light that shook objects seemed to come from the
Far trip that drew his imagination. Still alive in the Pirate's Tower, still standing in the
midst of gloom, one populated by lonely Rumors of Nature, within
a block of stone walls seemed to sweat murky mystery.

Something had blown off the tower: a scream, a howl, as distinct from
the other night, more smothered farthest.

Jaime had the feeling that this cry came from very close, that someone threw perhaps hidden
in groups of tamarisk.

He focused his attention, and soon the cry rang again.

It was the same aucamiento of the other night, but deaf, softly, hoarse, as if they were afraid
of throwing the cry from spreading too much, putting his hands around his mouth to send with this
natural horn only to the tower.

After the first surprise, laughed quietly, shrugging his shoulders.
I did not think to move.

What do you care about these customs and primitive peasants these challenges? "Howl, good man;
scream until you get tired, I am deaf. "
And to distract his attention he read the letter, delighting in the
taste of the long list of creditors, many of whose names evoke visions
angry or grotesque memories.

The howling continued playing at long
intervals, and each time he cut husky shrillness silence, Febrer shook
with impatience and anger. "Christ! Was she going to pass and the
night, kept awake by this serenade threatening ?...