 Frequented all
classrooms in some semblance of the court and sat at the table better supplied. Their titles for
it was the man going through lively and sparkling conversation, witty and enjoyable. Over twenty years
ago had been cheering Fuentes meals and evening parties in the capital them play the leading
role comedian. Some of his jokes had come to be proverbial; repetíanse not only in classrooms
but in the tables of the cafes, and even came to the provinces. Contrary to what usually happens
in this class of men was not cursing. His jokes did not tend to hurt people, but to brighten up the
contest and force you to admire easy, the living and subtle wit. Everything else was authorized
to seize the absurdities of some absent friend and training on them a funny phrase, but never
or almost never at the expense of honor. These qualities had made him the idol of the gatherings.
None was considered complete if Fuentes was at least a walk around it.

- Oh, Sources! Oh, Fuentes! - They shouted when he saw him appear.

And a lot of hands reached out to greet him.

Pressing the first that came to colliding with it went from then to the lady of the house,
cracked voice that helped much to the comic effect, saying:

- Excuse me, Clementina, if I'm a little late.

Coming here took me by the account Perales, Perales you know!, I
have nothing to say.

Then when I let go their hands, one on the corner of the Ministry
of War, fell into the hands of Count Sotolargo, and that you know
that is heavy with a fifty cent surcharge.

- Why? - Was quick to
ask Lola Madariaga.

- Because it is stuttering, ma'am.

The guests laughed, some out loud, others more discreetly. The phrase came prepared: known to the
league, but they still produced the desired effect, partly because
in effect had been amused, partly because everyone believed in the
duty to be cheerful Fuentes as he opened his mouth.

A moment later a servant in livery opened wide the doors of the hall,
saying aloud:

- The lady is served.

Osorio was quick to offer his arm to the Baroness of Rag and broke up the march to the dining
room followed by all the guests. Closing the convoy was driving Baron Clementina.

The servants waited in ranks with his napkin on his arm, led by the maître. Osorio was appointed
to his post each guest. Soon they accommodate everyone. The board offered an elegant, harmonious.
The light falling from two lamps with reflectors, was highlight the bright colors of the flowers
and fruits, the white tablecloth, the brightness of glass and porcelain. However, this light,
too harsh, hurts the beauty of ladies, disfigured as a camera. To tune and produce a light smooth and normal,
Clementina was placing two candlesticks with candles to the ends
of many the table.

All the ladies were more or less low-cut: some, like Pepa Frias, loudly. The gentlemen in tails
and white tie.

The conversation was at first particular: each spoke with his neighbor. The Baroness Rag, a Belgian
brown hair and eyes, rather thick, asked Osorio the names of the
objects on the table.

Short time ago I was in Spain and eagerly wanted to know Castilian. Clemence and the Baron spoke
in French.

Pepa Frias, who was among Arbós Pepe Castro and Jimenez, told the
first in a low

- What do you think of the snout of the husband of
Lola?

Gaucho is it that is not entirely bad?

Castro smiled with superiority that characterized him.

- Yes, must
have roped a lot of cows in the pampa.

- Until finally he lassoed
a cow to him.

- But it was in the pampa.

- I know: in the little
gardens: you do not tell me anything.

The general Patiño, true to their nature and military tradition, was
deployed in guerrilla to attack the Marquise de Ujo, beside him.

-
Marquise, pearls will feel wonderfully.

A soft, slightly tanned skin as yours, that reveals all the sap and all the noon heat, requires
trim East par excellence.

- You so flattering as ever, general. I wear pearls because it is the best I have. Its had about
as beautiful as Clementina emeralds, pearls leave in their cases - said the lady, showing teeth smile
which shone quite dilapidated in some Dentist gold points.

- Would you do wrong. Beautiful women are obliged to wear what they do best. God wants his masterpieces
are revealed in all its glory. Feel Emeralds While the lymph, but you're like the grapes of Jerez,
golden brown outside and saved heart a dizzying and intoxicating liquor.

- If you say you like a raisin!

- Oh, no, marquise! Oh, no! ...

And the general refused to fire the species and used all his eloquence to derail as if I were
faced with a hostile army.

Meanwhile the servants were beginning to turn the table presenting
the dishes.

Others with the bottle in his hand, whispering in the ears of the
guests: Sauterne, Sherry, Margaux, in cavernous tone similar to that
used by Carthusian monks to remind each other to death.

- I do not
drink more champagne frappe until the end - Pepa Frias said that behind
him.

- How much heat, Pepa, how hot! - Said Castro.

- Do not know
you well - "the widow with malicious intonation.

- Unfortunately.

-
Or fortunately.

Are you tired of Clementina?

Fuentes was not well with that whisper.

It hurt him to waste his wit in conversation particular, for a single person. He grabbed the first
opportunity by the hair to lift the voice and attract the attention of diners.

- Yesterday I have seen you in the morning in the Carrera de San Jerónimo, Fuentes - he said
Cotorraso Countess was three or four places beyond.

- According to what you call tomorrow, countess.

- It was about eleven
or so.

- So, permit me to doubt it, because until two am always in
bed.

- Oh, till two! - Cried several.

- That it is an exaggeration,
Fuentes - said the Marquise de Alcudia.

- But it is an exaggeration
aristocratic Marquise.

Who gets up first in Madrid? The sweepers, porters, the skewer.

A little later you find to opening the store clerks, some old woman
who goes to hear Mass, lackeys who go walking horses, etc. Then start
to get their empleaditos trading house and the clerks State offices
that carry the full weight of them, dressmakers, etc.., etc. A eleven
and you will find most distinguished people, army officers, students,
employees three thousand pesetas, brokers, etc. A noon start out the
big guns, negotiated leaders, bankers, some owners, but only after
two afternoon you can see on the street ministers, CEOs, to titles
Castilla, great writers ....

The guests listened spellbound this
ingenious defense of laziness and believed in For laugh and say to
each other in a low

- The Power!

Oh! This source has the grace of God!

And some, for the pleasure of hearing him nothing else, it had the opposite.

- But man, there's nothing nicer than getting up in the morning to breathe fresh air and bathe in sunlight?

-
I prefer to bathe in warm water with a bottle of Kananga.

- Can I deny you that the sun is beautiful?

- It's beautiful, but a little cursilón. I'm not saying there at the beginning of the world was
not a amazing thing, worth seeing, but you will understand that it
is now outdated.

Is there anything more ridiculous in an age so positivistic as this be called Phoebus and hair
spend Gold? In addition, the sun has no intrinsic merit.

It is there because God burning has set.

But the light of gas, electricity represent the effort of a man of
genius is the triumph of intelligence, recalls our power over matter,
sovereignty spirit throughout the universe .... Then - he added, lowering
his voice a little - at the sun can see without costing money, and
I've always hated the shows free.

The guests did not stop laughing.

Fuentes, encouraged by the laughter, overflowed in paradoxes in one-liners
and subtle, visibly falling into affectation.

What happened to him the big players too much applauded. I did not know contained in time and
came at last the ground of insanity. From here to there is more bland than a step, and gave Fuentes
frequently.

The Count of Cotorraso persisted in defending the star of the day to drive his wit detractor. The
sun was the one who encouraged Nature, who warmed up the body numb, etc.

- That the sun produces animation, deny - replied Sources -, Madrid
is much more lively at night than during the day, and I prefer warm
coke, that does not cause sunstroke .... Let's see, count, mind you,
what merit can be a thing that force must see always the first thing
you groom?

As someone said, laughing, that Fuentes had "good shadow," he replied sharply:

- Do you see it, count?

So to say that a man has grace is said to have good shadow. No one would think that you have
good sun.

And because of the shadows of the manzanillo discussed. The Marquise of Ujo asked the Mexican, Lola's husband,
if his country had manchineel. Ballesteros, who was his name, replied that no, but he had seen
many in Brazil.

The Marquise was reported with deep curiosity the particularities
of the tree, but was extremely upset when told Mexican not kill the
shadow and only the fruit off a corrosive water.

- So you sleeping
under it does not die?

- Madam, I have not slept you know, but I
have several friends Debah almorsado one and we has pasao ná.

- So
how Selika commits suicide in the African sleeping in the shade of
that tree?

- This is a hoax, a invensión of the poet you know?

It will be a beautiful thing, but no nothing is right.

The Marquise, disappointed by that fact realistic, would not leave his poetic belief, argued maybe the
manchineel in India were different from those of Brazil.

Hablóse productions of Mexico.

- Is it true that you have eight hundred thousand cows, Ballesteros?
- Asked Clementina.

- Oh, madam, that's a exagerasión!

At best it will my herd is tresientas thousand.

- If they were mine - said Fuentes - build a pool larger than the
Retiro, would fill milk and sail for it.

- We do not utilisamo milk,
sir, not butter either.

Wash your meat any of convertimo in tasaho you know? and esportamo. But usually only get me
from the hides you know?

The horn also sell me for making the object pole.

- That you burn! You burn! - Pepe Castro said softly.

But while not hear Arbós Jiménez, who was on the other side of Pepa Frias, and not undertaken a
fit of laughter that tried with all his might suffocate.

- Anda,
Barbiana, alárgame that bottle of mustard - Pepa Frias said Clementina
addressing to cover also the laughter that he had undertaken.

- Bajbiana,
bajbiana .... What is that bajbiana? - Asked the Baroness de Osorio
in Rag desire to quickly learn Spanish.

This was quick to explain as he could.

Pepa talked from time to time by the low to Arbós Jiménez. They used to be some rapid phrases
intelligence that proved they were and at the same time the desire
to be prudent.

The conversation with Pepe Castro, who had left, was more animated.

- Why do not advise you to eat more meat Arbós? - Asked the dandy in his ear.

- Why?

- For what you usually eat meat, for nutrients and to withstand forces that the hardships that
our duties imposed on us.

- Ya! - Said the widow with an ironic intonation -.

Look for himself and let others fix accounts as God implies.

- You see I try to nurture.

- Yes, but also go a little brain, because when you least expect you
fall Street fool.

- Have you ever offended you? - Asked, laughing
as if this stylish the craziest thing the world.

- No, man, no, is
that I think so.

Clementine can not understand how to suffer like narcissus.

- Chis, hush! Prudence, Pepa, prudence! - Said Castro with fright, looking up to his mistress.

- Do you know that very well concealed? Have not seen you guide a single glance so far.

Castro, who for days was a little disgruntled by the coldness of its
owner, forced a smile then his brow furrowing.

Pepa does not go unnoticed by this gesture.

- Look what a face so clouded currently has Osorio. It inspires horror!

And the whole blame is you, rogue.

- Yo! Not so. Should be matters of twine that you get so yellow. Me said he is broke or close
to ruin.

Pepa shuddered visibly.

- What do you say? "Where have you know that?

- As I have said already several.

The widow turned sharply Jiménez Arbós not hide his excitement and
asked him altered low voice:

- Have you heard that Osorio is ruined?

-
Yes, I've heard.

Osorio has been playing down some time ago and strive to raise funds - said statesman gesture
by lifting the head with peacock petulant.

The tone in which he uttered these words warned satisfaction. For a minister, play down is
always a crime worthy of punishment.

- I do not know what will be involved in this settlement, but if much is lost, because the consolidated
whole has risen.

And if he persists in not immediately settle, so month may be two
integers great hike.

All the good humor of Pepa had suddenly disappeared. He lowered his head and dropped his fork no
mood to finish the piece of ham that had set.

The minister, noting their silence and sadness, he asked

- Do you happen to funds in his possession?

- By chance, no ... For my stupidity! In his hand most of my fortune.

- O devil, devil!

- I'm running realgar in the body I have eaten. I think I'm going to get bad - said the widow getting
really pale.

Arbós made efforts to reassure her. Might not be all true. In the ruins as improvised fortunes
always much overdone. Also, if there was a sacred commitment for Osorio, should be hers, a
lady who entrusted their money out of pure friendship.

While speaking in falsetto, their faces serious and manner determined
drew attention General Patiño, which, with admirable penetration,
said the Marquise de Ujo:

- Look for Pepa and Arbós.

There are summer cloud between them. How beautiful is the love to
in their fleeting storm!

Meanwhile, the counts of Cotorraso, Lola Madariaga, Clementina barons and spoke Rag of arsenic
as a medicine to fatten and make the skin smooth and shiny. Lola Madariaga was the first time I heard
and was full of joy, and immediately announced that it would to test
the miraculous virtue of the poison.

- My God, Lolita! - Said Fuentes
-.

If you, as it is now causing such havoc in male hearts, what will happen when you take four or
five months with a regimen of Arsenic! Mr. Ballesteros, you do not consent to take it: it is
too cruel to treat.

- Come on, buddy Fuentes - the pretty brunette said with a glance
insinuating Castro, why he had made up his mind to Clementina torn
out - I want you to kid?

- Tomaj hair!

... Tomaj What is your hair? - Rag asked the baroness to Osorio.

At this Baroness was undressing with the imagination Bonifacio, watching
from afar without blinking.

For days she had bought from other obscene photographs of a woman
naked swinging in a hammock.

It seemed to him that the Baroness was much like that Women, and
tried to figure out, through a careful external examination, if the
inside would keep the same image.

Finally finished the meal without spending not, of course, a good
time to talk to the theater Real, Gayarre and Tosti.

They had not digested well if they are missing. Coffee, as was Osorio custom house, was served
in the same room. Then the ladies with some men left the room.

Others were smoking, but they soon go to meet others. There was an unbearable heat.

Pepe Castro took the confusion of departure for asking Clementina:

- Why did not you go this morning?

Clementina stood still, looked at him with a smile protective.

-
"This morning?

... I do not know.

- Why did not you know? - Said his August brow furrowing the actual waiter.

- I do not know I do not know - and took a step away, still smiling with a slight tinge of mockery.

-
The future go?

- We'll see - said walking away.

Castro felt that smile like a punch in the chest. She bit her lower lip and murmured: - flirted, eh?
You pay me, beautiful!

In the lounge there and some people, including Ramon Maldonado and daughter Pepa Frias with her husband.
In another adjoining sitting room were prepared up to six tables
seating area.

Some sat course to play. Others wait for co-habit. Soon, in effect, both of halls populated.
D. reached Julián Calderón Mariana and Esperanza, Cobo León Ramírez Guzmán and three or four Pollastre,
General Pallarés the Marquis of Veneros and several other people,
including bankers dominated and businessmen.

One of the last to arrive was the Duke of Requena, who was receiving the same noisy and flattering that
everywhere. Came panting, smoking, spitting, with insolent security
his vast fortune had been acquired.

He spoke little, he laughed less, aired their views rudely and left the circle of ladies worship
around him. Her cheeks are bruised than ever, bloodshot eyes, black
lips.

I was so ugly that Fuentes told Pinedo Arbós Jiménez and pointing:

- There you have the devil getting his witches in the coven on Saturdays.

He was invited to play sitting as usual, but he refused. Had seen two bankers who wanted to fish for
her business Riosa mine.

In addition to the court suited him Jiménez Arbós few moments. He had already gotten mine come
out in the auction with all accessories forestry and belongings. In the Gazette had inserted the
advertisement. The company to buy was already formed. But there was disagreement between the partners.
Some wanted to purchase for cash (Among them was Salabert) and others wanted to take ten times
that the Government attached. The difference in pricing from one to another form, was enormous.

The
Duke went to Biggs, the representative of an English house that came with some very significant
in the company and headed the party hire purchase. She threw her familiarly arm on the shoulder
and led him into the hollow of a balcony, saying roughly:

- "So you determined to ruin us?

And he began to discuss the matter with a frankness that surprised the English. This responded
to Duke exits with arguments brutal polite and gentle, always smiling benevolently. The Duke
emphasized his toughness, which basically was very diplomatic.

- I have no desire to throw my money.

I have a hard time acquiring them, you know? Probably the end of the day, I'll be forced to
cut their losses, apart from the business.

- Sir Duke, I have no guilt - Biggs responded with an English accent
-.

I have received instructions.

- Instructions are given on the advice of an old fox is in Madrid.

-
Oh, Duke! - Biggs said, laughing, - Sorro Vieco no, no.

And the discussion
continued without the Spanish banker could get anything from English,
but leaving quite concerned.

Pepa Frias, deeply agitated, spoke apart with Arbós Jiménez, after learning, asking some bankers,
Osorio's business not going well. However, all assumed it means to meet their commitments. Its
capital was great, and although in recent assessments of stock had
experienced heavy losses, did not believe they were enough to cause
bankruptcy. It should be noted that none of these gentlemen operated
on differences and Osorio. This had been hooked. Despite warnings
from friends and colleagues, could not overcome the passion of the
game, which eventually had to lead you to ruin. Pepa secretly watched
him, and with wonderful insight guess women under his cold exterior,
quiet, high sea swell. While Arbós tried to reassure her with the
correct phrase, groomed (not even speaking to his beloved dispensed
oratorical forms), the widow meditated a plan of salvation. This plan
was to give Clementina alarm and boot the promise of ridding their
funds from burning, if who had, anchoring his own dowry. Trusting
a lot in its diplomacy and temperament detached from his friend, serenóse
a bit. Arbós had occasion once again, go see the calm your face, soak
in the exceptional gifts with which Providence persuasive God had
favored him.

Pepa had the courage to sit and play sitting with Clementina,
Pinedo and Arbós. Crossing The large living room sitting in a corner
he saw his daughter and son-in attitude of two turtle doves love.
He approached them. As had failed sweep of his mind the concern, spake
with some asperity.

- Yesterday I sent little notes and now have
to bring hot water took off! Apparently, children, you take an odd
turn marriage .... Come, come, separate is not well appear Sobon so
in front of people.

Emilio was hurt by that authoritative tone, and
with flushed cheeks would respond a descanted his mother, but she
passed by, entering the sitting room. Still everything was muttering
pests, saying that he had ever endured and that no legs least now
endure her mother, with another portion of sentences that equally
strong sadness poured down the face of Irene