 We had a concert and a dance, and a dinner style
that gave Baltasar many years later. I did not dare to ask King what he had done in Parsondes.
I did not understand that a man so excellent, that he entertained and regaled guests with elegance
and courtesy that, had been killed or had in hard captivity of my dear teacher.

Finally, one night I plucked up all my restraint and resolve, and told Nanar, on behalf the
King my master, who at the time was going to say where was the virtuoso Parsondes if not want
to lose the kingdom and life. Nanar, instead of answering, he brought the point to all cantatrice
the Bayadere and was in the palace: it is understood that off-campus, harem or whatever you call,
reserved for their wives. The Milita such priestesses moved from nine hundred, and were the
most beautiful and skillful that could hardly be found in all Asia. The girls came dancing, singing
and playing flute, finger cymbals and harps, it was a matter of taste to see them and hear
them. I sat rapt. Nanar he said, and here was the more my amazement:

- Behold the holy Parsondes among these women. Parsondes, come here and greet your former student.

Went
out from the center of that crowd one female, were it not for the
beard, had could be confused with women.

He wore black painted eyebrows, eyelids blue, in order to shine more eyes and cheeks covered
with lipstick. It was all perfumed her dress was almost as rich as the King, his effeminate
and languid gait, his ears hung exquisite earrings, from his throat a necklace of pearls encircled
her forehead a wreath of flowers. It was the same Parsondes, who threw her arms around his neck.

-
I am, I said, well other than he was before. Return, if you want to Susa, but do not say I
live it, that wizards do not be offended, and to continue taking
a recent example of holiness to appeal.

Nanar avenged my rough and unkempt making me a prisoner under and sending me soaping and scrubbing
with a scouring pad. After washing my continued and perfuming twice a day, giving me a hitch, and
forcing me to be with all these bright young ladies, where I ended up forgetting my Zoroaster and
austere preaching, and convinced that in this life time we must have the best possible without
engaging in the lives of others. Care Agenos kill the donkey, and none more so than who mixes
in censoring the vices of others, if only it lacks the opportunity to into them, or when, if they
have not fallen, it must be out of ignorance, bad taste and rustiqueza.

I put my hands on the ears to hear such blasphemy from the mouth of that wise admirable. I was
desperate and angry to see him become a bon vivant, with their points
and collar of shameless rascal, but to avoid scandalous gossip, I
decided to advise the school of wizards to continue arguing that Parsondes
had risen to the empyrean, and to continue venerating his image, without
discovering never before flatly denying that he lived with Parsondes
the dancers of Babylon in the palace of Nanar.

In this awoke from my dream and I turned to find my poor house of this court.

- I think, added our friend to finish his story, with less wealth and less cost can the day Nanar
seduce upbraideth Parsondes that immorality and vices, moved, not
charity, but of envy.

Those who are not sure of the virtue and fortitude of mind must therefore
be more lenient with Nanar.

Woe to him who boasts virtue without one probadísima!

Blessed are those who practice it and shut up!

THE PREHISTORIC BERMEJINO

OR BLUE SALAMANDER

I

I've always been fond of science.

When young, I had a thousand other hobbies, but now I am old, the prevailing scientific hobby
and triumphs in my soul. Unfortunately or Fortunately it happens to me something very singular.
I like science inversely delas truths they are showing exactly. So I just am interested in sciences,
and inaccurate I love. Hence my penchant for philosophy.

It is the truth that appeals to me, but the effort of speech, of subtlety and imagination which
is used to discover the truth, but undetected. Once discovered truth, well proven and patent,
usually leave me cold. Thus, a gallant young man, when you go down the street in pursuit of a
woman whose walk gracefully and whose waist you excited, then come on, the look at his face
and sees that it is old, or one-eyed, or have nosed monkey.

The man would also be a cabinet if he knew the truth, but truth to be pretty. It quiet in their
possession and enjoyment would be silly. Better, then, we know little. What matters is knowing
enough to appear or be discerned the mystery, and never enough for an explanation or clarification.
Thus curiosity is aroused, comes alive fantasy and make up theories, dogmas and other witticisms,
entertain and comfort us during our earthly existence, all of which would lack, being a thousand times
more unhappy pure rude if we were not present the mystery, or if we managed to unravel a pure business
his deep and true meaning.

Among these inexact sciences, which so delight me, there is a very
in vogue now, which is subject my favorite.

I speak of prehistory.

I, not knowing whether I am right, divided into two parts this science. One that I would call
geological prehistory, is based on the discovery of skulls, cops, arrows and spears, stew and
other gadgets, involving scholars who are of an age very remote, called stone. This prehistoric
amuses me so, and has, I see far fewer sets you will hear that call philological prehistory,
based on the study of primitive language and documents written in
them are preserved.

This is the prehistory makes me more grace.

What variety of opinions! What acute guesswork! With what art are arranged and sorted facts to fit
the system that shapes every wise! And all civilization born in Egypt, and the Acadia in the center
of Asia, and comes from India, and a continent called Lemuria, which
sank in the deep sea, the South, between Africa and Asia, and from
another continent, that between Europe and America and was called
Atlantis.

On the primitive language, as well as the primitive civilization, is still disputed. Up it was a dispute
over whether or were several languages: that is, whether the men began to spread around the
world Alal, or say, still speechless, and in flocks, and then were
inventing different languages ??in different places, or whether they
spoke before the dispersion and all a single language.

My itching to browse induce me to read how many new books come out
on this subject which are not few, and the more wrong-headed they
are, things looks the multitude of the timid, the more I enjoy these
books.

In recent days the books I read are contrary to the Aryans, the Egyptians, of the Semites and other
nations and castes, that went by the civilizing degree superior. If the old books have argued
that civilization, such as sunlight, spread from East to West, these new books claim that spread
in the opposite direction from West to East. All knowledge of the Magi from Iran and from Shinar,
from the Brahmins the banks of the Ganges, the priests of Isis and Osiris, of the initiated
in Samothrace and the towns of Phoenicia and Phrygia, is worth nothing
compared to the knowledge of certain Gauls primitive light whose center
was in a prehistoric Paris.

The Gauls and their bards and druids, poets and priests taught him everything but his own, science
and reflection was not confusing and I remember full of science possessed,
in the center of fertile and beautiful country now called France,
before the coming of the Celts, men more primitive and excellent call
or protoscitas Hyperborean.

But what language they spoke these protoscitas or Hyperborean, the center and focus of civilization
was a Paris of the past six or seven thousand years at least? Spoke the language Euskara,
Basque populace. Where had they come? They had come from Atlantis, which sank. What knowledge
did they have? They had all the knowledge we have today and many more that have been darkened
by of fables and other trifles. Thus, the arimaspes, who had one eye and looked the sky, astronomers
were then, they already knew the telescope, and the arrow that Abaris was riding from one end to
another of the earth, was the balloon or a device to fly and compass
direction, etc.., etc., etc. It is understood that the time of the
arimaspes and the decadence Abaris are Hyperborean civilization.

I confess that I loved this whole system. It is not my purpose to expose here. Step flying on it
and go to my issue.

Say, however, which I loved for two reasons. This is the first how much I like France. How
is natural that the seeds of European civilization was born and flourished from old, in that
fertile and rich garden soil at the privileged, not in Mesopotamia or on the banks of the
Nile?

And the second reason, that I have friends in Gipuzkoa, which shall rejoice much if it is proved
that their language and caste were instrumental that he used to kill Providence barbarism, illuminating
the world and indoctrinate other nations.

Much rejoice at this, if still alive, as I wish, my learned friend
of mine and D. Joaquin Irizar and Moya, who has written remarkable
works on the Basque language, throwing trip the Erros, Larramendis
and Astarloas!

Something he will use the brand-new inventions give more force to your system, arranged so that fit
and fit in with the most perfect Catholic orthodoxy.

Anyway, for me it is clear that before the Celts penetrated into Spain, the Phoenicians, the
Greeks and other nations, was in Spain a civilized people, we call the Iberians. These people spread
across our peninsula, and even had colonies in Sardinia, Italy and elsewhere, as William Humboldt
has shown. Were Basque and spoke the language Euskara. The most cultured nation and state and
illustrious among them was the republic of turdetanos, who, according to the testimony of Strabo,
had laws and cute lyrics and poems in verse, had six thousand years old. However, the alphabets and
Turdetano Celtiberian that reconstructed and publishes Don Luis José Velázquez, are very modern
compared to the date cited above.

These scripts are a reflection of the Phoenician or Greek, and it should be assumed therefore, that
before coming to Spain Greeks and Phoenicians, had turdetanos its own alphabet, which they wrote
their poems and other works.

In my view, Mr. D. Manuel de Gongora y Martinez has had the glory
of discovering the alphabet.

See inscriptions Antiques Osiris in prehistoric Andalucía, de la Cueva of signs and other caves
and hiding places, some of which are near the site of Villabermeja,
a place that I've tried to make famous as its most conspicuous inhabitant
D. Juan Fresco.

Within walking distance there is a site Villabermeja that the Laderon last name, where every
day discovered remains and relics of an ancient and flourishing city.

The learned and sagacious antique D. Aureliano Fernandez War there
was evidence Favència, time of the Roman city that was called much
earlier Vescio.

Don Juan Fresco, excited his curiosity and fueled his tireless activity,
since the Mr. Gongora, publishing in 1868 his Antiquities, put on
the track, has been to seek Cave written signs and other landmarks
that are near Vescio, and has found and assembled in much copy.

Emulate Champollion Figeac, Anquetil Duperron, Burnouf, Grotefend, Oppert and Lassen, my referral D.
Friend Juan Fresco believes he has decoded these primitive scrawl Iberian, such as those other
wise, the hieroglyphs, cuneiform writing and other recesses.

I'm not trying to advocate here by the discovery of my namesake and
countryman and demonstrate the obvious.

This we will do it in your day. I will limit myself to relate a story that Don Juan Fresco says
he read some entries similar to the Cave of the signs. Understood letters, it seems that the other
is flat, because the language is almost primitive Iberian Basque now.

I regret not give here the exact translation of the original text. Don Juan Fresco did not want
communicate it.

I will, therefore, breaks the narrative with explanations and comments interspersed that he has
done. Not otherwise be understood.

The story is relatively modern, for, as my friend, have yet to discover legends and stories in Proto-Iberian,
oldest and most venerable Egyptian poem Pentaur about a feat or Rans
Sesostris II, and that the poems found by our known Mr. Layard diplomat
in the library of Ashurbanipal in Nineveh archaic poems and eight
centuries BC, and translated most of the sacred language of the Akkadians,
then so dead like Latin with us now.

And this should not wonder, because according Roisel at The Atlantis, all culture comes from
these, before been in Chaldea, Assyria, in Egypt or at any point of the East.

It is unfortunate that we still have no documents of the Golden Age
or Golden Age of Atlantic Parisian literature of place some eight
thousand years, or the emanation of that bética culture, implemented
by the banks of the Guadalquivir turdetanos.

The document found, deciphered, explained and commented by Don Juan Fresco is relatively time
fresh, as it were of yesterday morning. Iberian and indigenous culture had declined and Spain were
full of even Phoenician and Greek colonies. Those had already founded Zazinto Sagunto, and
for over a century they founded the Tyre to Malaga, Abdera, Hispalis and Gades. It was for
the years 1000, BC vulgar, on more or less.

II

Vescio was an important city of the Confederation of Turduli.

At the time we mean, the vescianos already had the same quality as the day their descendants have
been dictation bermejinos valid: almost all were blond and some candles. Stood out among all
as fair as well as handsome and dashing, elegant and noble young
man Mutileder.

Sling shot and killed extraordinary ability to planes passing stones flying, riding on horseback,
drove a car like few war, he knew by heart best verses composed turdetanos and also very regular,
with a club in the powerful was a tremendous right hand man, with
women was sweeter than a arropía and more without gall a dove, ran
like a deer, fighting tooth and nail as bears, and had another crowd
of clothes that were recommended.

You can almost ensure that his only fault was being poor.

Mutileder, lost his father and mother, had no urban land and rustic, lived as love staying with
his uncles, and Vescio did not know what used to make a living. Was a man, as they say, without a
job or benefit.

And was bordering on twenty-four, and tired of this life, and longing to see the world, called
blessing to his uncles, who were accompanied by some the money, and also taking weapons and
horse, Vescio left to seek adventure and how to improve the condition.

As Mutileder presence was so beautiful, and it was also nice and happy,
everywhere was very pleasing.

The bells sugetos of fancy and he was invited to dances and parties and the funniest ladies and
haughty eyes put her love, but he was good, prudish and simpleton, and took out anything useful from
this. The money they gave him his uncles was consumed, and no new money came to replace him.

Thus,
stopping in different populations, for example, Igábron, passing then Síngilis today Genil,
entering the land of the turdetanos, and also stopping Ventipo, came to a place of Bastulos
Aratispi was then called, and I suspect he be the Alora of our time, as famous for their games plains.
There was Mutileder a cousin who was a sun of beauty, with eighteen years of age, and fairer than
he, if fits. This premium is called Echeloría. His father, widowed
and very wealthy, the idolized.

Mutileder and Echeloría were pure Iberian breed, without any mixture
of Celts and Phoenicians.

Their families, or better say his family, he was one of them, he boasted, not without reason,
descent from the primitive Atlanteans who had migrated many centuries ago, when sank into the
sea of ??Atlantis, and, going a long sea, had led Egypt culture, civilization long before the
issue of Osiris, while others, known after the name of Hyperborean,
landing in France, had spread the light and founded flourishing States,
walking to the East to the mountains beyond Rifeas, and influencing,
Finally, in the awakening to political life and cult of the Aryans
and Semites.

In short, Echeloría and Mutileder were two illustrious and worthy
of being on their merits.

Just met, they loved ... What say you loved?

Fall in love to each of the other and the other one.

Echeloría's father, who had nothing to dull, then noticed the girl's love and tried to kill him, because
the cousin had no other assets to his passionate heart; but Echeloría was really in love, and the father,
who at heart was a blessed, agreed and resigned after Mutileder aspired to be his son.

Both lovers swear eternal fidelity. "Rather die than be different,"
she said.

"Before die to be of another, "he said. And this promise was made repeatedly and solemnized and
corroborated with the most terrible oaths.

After this, what remedy was married but as soon as the first boyfriend?

This was resolved the father, and began to make preparations for the wedding, which was verified
in autumn.

It was already late spring, and in those ancient ages likewise happening
now which in the spring following the summer.

Aratispi was the most beautiful place this is Alora. Around there, as there are still fertile,
gardens and lush evergreen forests of orange and lemon, but the hills
that limited amenísimo the valley, rather than being peeled, as now,
were covered with oaks, cork, carob, chestnut and other trees, whose
trunks and whose shade grew heather, ferns, thyme, marjoram, Mastranzo
and other fragrant plants and herbs.

Such was then the generosity of that land, which dwarf palms, now usually covered and more than just
serve to make brooms and esportilla, rose to great heights, while the steep ridges of the mountains,
bald now, were covered with tiara green firs, pines and cypresses.

Nevertheless, it must be confessed that in summer it got so hot in all Aratispi demons.

Echeloría wanted, rightly, take some sea bathing, and her father was a busy port nice, near Malaga,
D. Juan Fresco and I estimate that it must have been Churriana.

Naturally Churriana Mutileder was also accompanying her future.

The cousins ??were like two lovebirds, always cooing. The more I looked him Echeloría, most
beautiful and angelic and more mellifluous was was put to her.

And the more I looked Mutileder Echeloría to a greater number of perfection and excellence
was in it.

Well, to say nothing, because it would be never ending story, the mutual admiration that arose
both souls when considering the talent or the ability of the object of his love. Each stone Mutileder
pulling killed a bird and broke the heart of Echeloría, by dint of enthusiasm. And Echeloría, meanwhile,
more than charm Mutileder knew the songs sing, had made a serious pita, so full of subtle
and exquisite work, he was spellbound for hours contemplating the deep.

The two lovers enjoyed complete freedom and went alone to walk through those byways and byways,
and along the resounding sea, and by oaks and olive groves wearing those hillsides, and by the
Verjel, groves and groves of the valley, watered by a Crystal Creek. But both were so as God
commands, that despite how much they wanted, not molested never anything but a warmly shaking
hands and once or twice at most, to consent to her receiving a chaste
kiss on the smooth and candid front, and achieve the pattern.

The highest virtue and delicacy of these cousins ??put everything on hold for the day fortunate
in that religion and the laws contained in their indissoluble unity.

Meanwhile
they said two hundred thousand tenderness every time. "Your name is
a label I put on my heart, "exclaimed Echeloría. "My heart is yours
forever leave before beating that love you alone, "answered Mutileder.

These
sessions are the hours passed, and continued two lovers were together
less when Echeloría retired to sleep next to his old nurse and stay
very sheltered or when going to the beach for bathing, for then, in
order to avoid what people say and gossip, Mutileder not bathe her,
perhaps not used even swimwear, so complicated and conceal the ways
in which they are now in Biarritz and elsewhere.

III

Phoenician
city of Malaga was a lot of trade. Almost racing Cadiz. The port was
full Tyrian ship, Pelasgian, Greek and Etruscan. In its stores were
sold thousand beauties brought from distant countries: wool fabrics,
dyed purple in Tyre, gold jewelry, made in Memphis in Sais and other
Egyptian cities, gemstones and Hindustan cotton fabrics; Persian carpets,
silk and even the most ignored country of Seras.

Echeloría went to
Manchester several times with her father and her boyfriend, to visit
those stores and buy clothes to the wedding day sighed. 

Hallab then
in Malaga one of the boldest and marine scientists had then the world:
the famous Adherbal