 The thrust was a dip in the most evil thing he had never seen. It's indescribable
anger that gripped the audience. Had it been another bullfighter had gone through a whistle,
large or small, but have conceived the hope of seeing a former teacher bullfighting by Montes
system and come to the square to witness that shame, this put out of his fans. What shouting,
good heavens! How insulting! I'm sorry! It seemed that everyone had just robbed him the honor of
his daughter.

- Morral, thief, big pig! So you hang by your feet! Are you the one
who received the bulls?

A prison with that rascal! Mr. President, how soon would you have Civil Guard?

And amid the clutter, oranges, empty bottles and even a few stones, flying the square, and right-hander
hurt miracle. This advanced, pale, embarrassed, to the presidency. Tended to reach near where they
were Enrique and Miguel, an orange accurate him in the face and drew
blood.

Enrique, who was already excited and nervous, could not repress indignation,
and rising shouted to those behind:

- Who was that brave?

Is that bold without shame?

- Outside the premature cool!

To dance! - Answered from above.

- Is it addressed V. me? - said a rising with arrogance.

- I am writing to which he is.

- Then we will see the faces on exit.

- It's see you to spit - Enrique said angrily.

- Away, away! Who feels that babieca! - Shouted from above.

He had no choice but to do so. The cigar smiled wiping the blood with
his handkerchief.

It was a smile so sad and so humble, that Michael is the heart and were pressed on the verge
of swallowing tears.

Just when it appeared the second bull in the ring, found at all the fuss. For more than worked
until he could not take them out more, the poor did not get captured
Cigarette benevolence, even the forgiveness of the public.

All efforts made, how many coats missed (and justice required to
declare that the casting of art), served as a mockery and ridicule
the enraged people.

El Gordo, in his bull, was as usual, from Masters and clicking crutch pretty bad. Bullfighting
lizard on his short and cool, and went for the right to volapié, giving a good thrust, but starting
trompicado. Many cheers.

Reached the fourth bull, which corresponded back to cigar. Veragua was a red ribbon, energetic,
black-eyed, open horn, good picture, like almost all of the Duke, a brave and beautiful animal.

Hake will put up a good pair to crazing. The Serranito took after the sticks, and as the public
saw him in the middle of the square, applauded.

- Smell your mare, salt!

Room also wanted them, but it happened once because the bull would not start. Again quartering and
returned to spend for the same reason. Again he went to the bull, and again happened. Then
there was some forward movement in the public heard a whistle, this was the bane of the poor lad.
Wounded his pride, rushed to the res-blind and wanted to stab him
the flags at all costs, the bull, which had not moved, you'll be hooked
below arm and flipped.

There was a cry of horror in the square. The entire crews rushed on the animal, trying to
take it, but to no avail. Cigarette unnecessarily jumping heroically in front of the horns, by putting
the cloth over the eyes; vain Lagartijo Gordo and he also threw coats,
exposing them to die, the bull, as if he had any Baldomero unfortunate
grievance, not listen to anything, and picked it up again and again
threw air. Then the cigar, last inspiration, dropped the coat, clutched
tightly the tail of the beast and began colearla; took many turns,
at last fell sick, the Gordo took the coat away. In this the Serranito
had stood and smiled forcibly the public as the gladiator who wants
to die with grace, touched his chest and fell again, releasing jets
of blood from wounds. Two Wise Monkeys picked him up and took him
to nursing, while others ran at once to cover the blood with sand.

The
president, who must have been shocked and upset as everyone in the
audience, gave the death signal, without considering that the bull
had been placed not more than a couple of flags, and it was dangerous
for the sword that was so full of death