 Instead of eight or ten travelers who are locked in the cars of France England, etc..,
Switzerland meet forty, fifty or more in one carriage, and the traveler curious to observe the country
can go to the small platform that stands between every two wagons and from there to contemplate
with delight the outburst ú magnificence of the landscape. The travel system in common that
has the double advantage of maintaining surveillance of drivers to ensure that travelers do not commit
indiscretions, and that can not happen disorders and crimes as have taken place in many European
railways, and to establish between travelers passing familiarity courteous and makes the trip
more fun and allows the exchange of news and instructive comments.

HOWEVER, it is clear that such a system would be unacceptable on long trips or for more than
five hours, in which the traveler wishes to have independence and, feeling fatigued, sit comfortably.
The promiscuity of the big wagons does not fit into rigor but to democratic habits, and in
this respect seemed perfectly Switzerland. Confess the incident, trifling in appearance, I gave
rise to a reflection that, in my opinion, contains throughout the synthesis of civilization.
The railway, the newspaper, the steamship, the telegraph electrical, industrial exhibitions, artistic,
etc., and international scientific conferences, are clearly distinctive symbols or characters of this century,
since in the fund does not mean only free competition, a community of interest, advertising
and cosmopolitanism. Universality is, therefore, the essential condition of all these manifestations
of progress.

But it is clear that if universality were to bring uniformity, Civilization standing would
be found soon for lack of personality in each of the major groups human, and that the show would
progress sadly monotonous. In this evil is opposed the free action of people, fortunately, and
that is why freedom of all peoples great interest to humanity. In fact, each town, according
to his genius particular resources and conditions of its territory, uses his universal instrument
mode progress, giving its own local appearance, and is of the multiple and simultaneous application
so many forces which is the largest mixed harmony of civilization. Thus, all civilized peoples
have newspapers, ie, a common and universal instrument, but each giving them to their own style,
shape and tendency to reveal and will retain their appearance own personality. All travel by rail and
steam, but every village, as its nature and its territory, adopt the partial system that best
suits you, without thereby disappear or suffer the general harmony. Is not it very interesting
and beautiful this phenomenon? For my hand, in spite of pouring so many insults against materialism
and indifference of this century, I admire and bless him fortunate creation of the alliance between
cosmopolitanism human and personality of the people, and between this and the individual.

That the reader will disguise this digression, that I could not before telling him dispense Berne
to Thun, remote valley of the Aar the laughing central or sub-lacustrine, the traveler is subjugated
by the indefinable charm that holds the central Switzerland. The river meanders quickly as a vast
and tortuous vein lazuli between graceful and limpid scallops vegetables, the plains ripples
are developed in a thousand exquisite, the meadows, forests and plantations alternate ending and irregular
form as checkerboards, the hamlets, villages and the rustic cottages stand anywhere in picturesque
dissemination, and under a sky Summer, admirably serene in some days and more blue than the
lower regions Europe, it is contemplated with rapture that world of ice giants, a hotbed of
rivers and streams of lakes and waterfalls dotted formidable granite towers erected by the architect
invisible and divine, and encircled by broad bands of dark vegetation, terraces and amphitheater
admirable, called the Bernese Oberland.

In two hours we reached the town of Thun, sitting gracefully on the banks of the Aar at the
foot of a mountain or huge rock that has the most romantic appearance. It was not our encouragement
to stop at Thun, a town that has more than nine centuries of existence, and does not Interesting
by the trips to which they invite their vicinity. I will note only apropos of that place, where
we're only passing that having just 3,400 residents (all Reformed) has a library of over 7,000
volumes with many interesting manuscripts, excellent schools, a beautiful hospital and other similar
benefits. This is characteristic Switzerland, where the forms of how small are the best things
wherever of civilization, thanks to the inspiration that freedom has given the national genius,
and the spirit of emulation developed by federal and local autonomy of peoples.

       * * * * *

Aar in the port, located in the center of town, take the steamer which was to lead by the lake of
Thun to the picturesque interlacustrine isthmus where Unterseen delay and Interlaken. After a
few minutes of sailing up the river, in the midst of exquisite villas and banks and hotels
that dominate the two sides, we entered the lake. I confess I had no supreme idea of ??semi-wild
beauty that develops on the narrow horizon the lake basin. Truth is that in Switzerland goes from
one surprise. The set seems have certain general forms which are summarized in mountains and
glaciers, rivers and lakes, waterfalls and streams, meadows and chalets, smiling and gracious countryside
towns and villages, and HOWEVER, no two objects of those who look like: a diversity of shapes
and forms is infinite, and this is precisely what the spell spreads
throughout Switzerland.

The lakes of Geneva and Neuchâtel we had found very beautiful and interesting in every respect;
but do not know what they are civilized, to regulate and rhythmic, which like a lot but not surprising.
In the lakes of Thun and Brienz is rough nature, somber and melancholy great. They feel the breath of refrigerators
more penetrating, the rumors are more pronounced; basins of the lakes have, let me the expression,
much personal and exclusive sovereignty original. And lakes Leman and Neuchâtel have a look
French, the Thun and I have German Brienz. Is easy to see, though not known, that the waters
of Leman are designed to irrigate a French country and lost in a southern sea or Latino, while Aare,
through romantic river, must bring his treasure into the Rhine, the great river Germanic and the
North Sea, as a symbol of the great and beautiful German race, dreamy,
individualistic profoundly original, semi-wild by nature and by its
lofty and misty spirit.

Lake Thun measured from its upper end on the island of Wissenau to the bottom, where magnificent
tree stands out among the elegant castle Schadau modern, long 18 ½ miles by 3.606 meters wide,
and has the most depth 234 meters. Its winds are variable but generally peaceful, its height
above sea level, 586 meters, and its waters are blue-green color very beautiful. In the Lake
of Thun and in that of Brienz is observed the same phenomenon of coloration in the Leman, albeit
in varying degrees. Indeed, in addition to 19 streams, almost all crystalline, which receives
the lake margins Thun, its flow is augmented by the left bank with highly turbid waters of the Kander
and Simmen together, something significant rivers that descend, through narrow gorges and narrow
valleys, refrigerators south of the Jungfrau group resplendent. But all these water murky as those
of the Aar in the upper region, they lose their ink Cinderella to
be confused in the magnificent granite bowl that transformed into
calm bluish emerald waves.

The show is quiet, rustic and completely awesome. Despite the irregularity contours, almost dominates
the whole extension of the lake from one end to another, and the traveler surprised that rides
the waves asleep on board a steam, liquid Valley Center, feel surrounded by the majesty of nature as
a whole pompous and alternately smiling or severe in its features. Stands around a ring of
steep cliffs, a staggered other blades together in powerful, high mountains and rough wrinkled
and huge bastions for titans. The basin is so tight that just reveals a piece of the sky, while
that between the open determined by the valley of the Aar is the
splendid mass of Jungfrau reverberating like a huge silver urn ....

But
this powerful ring of granite mountains that start from the waves
themselves, where bathing their feet to raise their crests and peaks
at a considerable height, it looks that all interested in that wild
and rugged combined with graceful and peaceful.

Above is looming sometimes the bald head of a formidable rock between large patches formed by spruce
forests that mimic the dark aisles of Gothic cathedrals. Below the appear at intervals slopes
covered with thick carpets of some fresh and prairie or is suddenly a deep narrow ravine beneath
which precipitates sour crags any stream, leaping from rock to rock in bright swirls of pearls
and giving away foam and breezes to his eternal concert wild rumors. Finally, towards the margins
are where hilarious like villages, a lake climbs like sentinels on some lean hill, another on
the same bank, numb to the sighs of the waves, the shadow of some huge boulder at the bottom
of a miniature little port where gently swaying some little boats with awnings blue fabrics.

No sound escapes from the villages where life seems to slip in eternal peace, in sweet quiet humility
of all ambition. So vivid is the contrast they make with sublime silence long, sharp whistles
of the steam valve, the approach to any port, the echoes of the music produced by a small band
of fans, and to board discussions among people of all countries and
different conditions, explaining impressions simultaneously in the
languages ??of Cervantes and Voltaire, Milton and Goethe, Dante and
Camoes, in the midst of this landscape that has all the stamp of originality
eminently poetic solemnity and rustic ....

* * * * *

We landed at
Neuhaus, at a short distance from the mouth of the Aar, and there
we took a stroller which took us twenty minutes to Interlaken, through
Unterseen, located in the center Baedeli Valley, ie half of the isthmus
between Lakes Thun and Brienz.

Unterseen, small town of about 1,400 inhabitants, who then walks, no special offers no, but
are curious some of its old wooden houses in an area that time And the smoke of the homes
have become almost dark. It is at the top or the Faubourg Aarmuhle portion begins truly beautiful
valley, where the group is semi-palaces, shops and gardens funny called Interlaken (Entre-lakes).

It
seems as though what is more cultured and elegant among hikers in Europe had been scheduled to
go to meet for a few days every summer in this cute site, which looks like a piece of some
of these compounds elegant palaces and suburbs estates that are around London, Paris and Berlin.
In fact, since the output the suburb of Aarmuhle begins a beautiful
mall that is going to end up in the port of Lake Brienz vapors, consisting
of two rows of magnificent elms and walnuts, behind which extend lustrous
meadows and forming street stand three or four elegant hotel building
surrounded by gardens, terraces and pavilions of vegetables, hotels
that alternate in a long row of houses numerous artistic aspect, where
travelers perfumery shops are travel items, weapons and a great profusion
of small museums compound types of views and landscapes, alpine curiosities,
cut glass, domestic furniture toys and worked with wood, bone, ivory,
horn, etc., and curious samples of the embroidery and touched the
country.

       

Each of these hotels are always full of travelers that follow and constantly renewed, coming
from all parts of Europe and scattering in different directions, and the great mall and the gardens
and meadows overlooked circulating ceaselessly cheerful and handsome groups of travelers, and visiting
the shops to buy curios, and horseback riding lightweight strollers or on request of admirable
landscapes of the surrounding mountains, and making reciprocal visits, going to the rifle
shot, or going in the morning to the elegant House of conversation to take Zuera medicinal,
or in the evening to dance, fun, and often clump together, at times
advanced to the round the green folder, inevitable plague of almost
every fashion to sites in Europe during the summers.

It is curious contrast to the sleek form there with the peasants English dandies Bern, and the
lovely dresses of the daughters of the country, full of grace, candor and originality with the
pompous and splendid dresses of silk or rich who drag lawn there lionesses of London and Paris,
sweeping the floor with their tails pontifical, and offering the wind the solitary snowy field
to work with brio in the monumental crinolines. It has always said that men reveal eating and
playing, and indeed nothing is more self judging the European races, as a whole, that one of those
banquets or dinners table d'hôte offered by big hotels, especially in Interlaken, the banks
of the Aar, in the middle two beautiful lakes and at the majesty of mountains and glaciers
of the Oberland.

The table is very good and cheap in Interlaken, was splendidly served
at the hotel of Alps, where we were staying, and more than 150 people
had seats there.

There was talk in all languages ??and even dialects, but English and French were in overwhelming
majority.

The British in particular have a particular predilection for Interlaken. The French tried policy
or related trips, laughing and talking loudly simplicity and almost all at once, but always
courteous, gallant and trying to please, by instinct and habit. The English, or kept a disdainful
silence, as if they were outside their area, or ate a lot and drank more, regardless of anyone
or worry about any gallantry, or talking on frivolous things deeply, but both wanted to be first
served in all cases and innocently pondered the whole dish taste
very nice with its inevitable which allows them to mud.

It is curious that the English throughout the foreign country privilege of watching, with reluctance,
all social, and find that everything is edible very nice and every physical object, even the most insignificant
stone, very beautiful indeed.

Anything we liked so much in these times common banquet table or funny as the type of women
who served, as in Interlaken service table is feminine and is banned fever garçons of prom dresses,
stiff and ceremonious as dandies kitchen. The pretty girl Bern that served the table where we
were had the most friendly and kind we recorded a lot of memory. That the reader allow me to
portray, and have an idea of countrywomen of Interlaken, the most
remarkable similar to those of the rest of the canton of Bern.

Bet the girl was younger than 22 to 24 years, simple, candid and very
helpful, middle height, blond hair almost yellow, oval face, thin
and pink, beautiful eyes dark blue, large and shy, delicate nose and
lovely mouth.

The complicated and elegant dress, which was the country, was composed of a very white muslin
shirt, no collar, gracefully folded on his chest, puffed sleeves with wide half of the arms; a
violet silk bodice trimmed with blue, buttoned front and very advanced downward, reaching only
to the height of the mid-chest and back, and fastened with chains silver in the form of calzonarias;
It was clear from the shoulders, by two pieces of silk blue covered them, and fell slopes to below
the waist on skirts very folded and nothing pompous, one species of brown-colored muslin, that
came out under the blouse. Add to that a nice blue stripes scarf tied around his neck as a
tie knot back, a natural pink lit the top of the bodice, a thick ribbon of beautiful braids
encircled by a wide black belt in a crown, two networks in black silk tied with ribbons arms
above the elbows, down to fists and showing the roundness and freshness
of those members, and finally wearing a pair of boots just two feet
dwarfs, add these details, I say, and you will have full attire of
a countrywoman of Interlaken.

* * * * *

Among several interesting excursions that can be made towards the snowy mountains, such as those
in Grindelwald, Lauterbrunnen, Kandersteg, etc., chose the first,
waiting, not without reason, to find varied and very pleasant impressions.

The road, which is highway, but difficult and very aware when climbing the mountains across the
valley, passing in front three or four villages surrounded by forests and orchards near the
foot of a hill still stand the ruins of the castle of Unspunnen, enters the narrow valley of
Lutschine, stream that descends to jumps, tormented and foaming over a bed of large rocks and
crags. Soon the valley narrows between steep, rugged mountains of wild aspect, where one hundred
excel magnificent jagged peaks between forests of fir, and the traveler rapture gazes on the proud
peaks of the Jungfrau [19], the Monch, the Eiger and the Wetterhorn.

[19] The young girl, named so because until 1811 no one could climb it and tread speech their snow-white.

Then
there is the confluence of two streams of the same name Lütschina called white one (Weisse), coming
down from the heights of Lauterbrunnen, and the other black (Schwarze) descending, the right
of the Eiger and its base of Grindelwald refrigerators. We spent noisy creek and began to climb
slowly above the right bank of Lütschina black, the slope leading to the high valley object
of our excursion. I confess I never in my life have I experienced such supreme happiness in those
moments. Had before and around all the beauties of a severe nature, wild and bombastic for
its Rumors and appearance, and fraught with endless dazzling poetry,
and to me, daydreaming like me, beloved wife, companion and guardian
angel of my life ....

The driver seemed invisible to us, we thought
that some force dragged us as if by magic: such was the delight of
our full contemplation of nature.

       How many Beings have done an admirable Switzerland happy!

We had entirely forgotten the company and its passions, their struggles, miseries and sorrows,
and just felt our souls soaked in love and that infinitely religious feeling is called the worship
of the beautiful and the sublime ....

The slope snails between rocky hills and in the middle of a narrow gorge formed by huge granite
rocks and bare, surrounded at their bases by ancient forests of fir. Here and there we found some
rustic chalet waiting for the fall alone hiciese returning residents, saw a patch of grass
or half hidden among the forests. At the bottom of the abyss the torrent roared, shaking her
hair and sparkling brown, angry and pressed against each rock that blocked the way to procure
a fall. And up ... wonderfully beautiful sky, like a lake Leman suspended in the atmosphere,
crowning and clothing of the snowy domes, which seemed the shining
thrones and severe the genius of Switzerland ....

When you reach
the undulating valley of Grindelwald, the scene changed dramatically,
offering a beautiful picture of contrasts.

We had dismounted from the front of the elegant lightweight stroller Eagle Hotel (Eiger) purely
national forms.

Behind us in the direction Lake Brienz, we had a formidable barrier of mountains and look almost
naked rude. To our left was extended towards the N.-E., which is called the valley, which is
a succession of inclined planes, rising to distant refrigerators, very rough and covered villages
and chalets in funny disorder, small meadows and many plantations of vegetables, fruit trees and
cereals. In front were displayed as two giants of the superb snow Eiger, to the south, rounded
at the base, and N.-E. the Mettenberg, taking in the middle, at the low, the bottom bar of Grindelwald,
descending to the bottom of the valley, and part Viescherhorner the snowy top, closing the horizon
like a huge glass strength or silver. Tempt around the town of Grindelwald, which has nearly 3,000
inhabitants (All renovated) and we halláiamos to 1.550 meters high,
almost in the center of the valley which is 20 miles long and 5 meters
wide.

The fridge we attracted him to the solemn fascination of her beauty, and gazed at a distance of 1.500
meters with infinite charm. A guide led us on foot to the first ice shelves. We wanted to
get close to the source or output Lütschina-black and penetrate Ice
caves, magnificent glass alcoves nature and mass produced the civilians
are responsible for refining to entice the curious traveler.

The show thickness output stream is really beautiful.