 The poor and not good for caregiving, and the maid is not so. What I miss Angelina!
If he were here would not be so great my concern. Why not come, Sarmiento said that so good,
that the danger is past, and, God willing, there to fear a misfortune, for now. But I see things
differently: Carmen will not last much, that is not live, and I see every day weaker and fall.
Before eating very well, but now takes a long time I take one thing, a triumph cost to accept
medicines. Consider me: I'm very heartbroken, just sleep, and live in constant anxiety. Don Roman
came to me, and also your friend Don came Quentin. It's a really good guy. I asked if anything
could be useful to me and if I needed anything. I said no and thanked him.

"We also came Pérez Castro girls, I asked for you and give you charge me memories of you of your
dad. I sympathize these girls, I told you. Murmuring and what indiscreet! You say! Carmen asked, regardless
of the state keeping, if it was true that you were boyfriend of Ms. Fernandez and you were
going to marry her. A gave me so much anger, I realized that only by knowing the truth out
and had come. It stayed here more than three quarters of an hour, talking like a parrot. If
they return, that they will not, will stay in the room, and nothing in this life I'll leave to enter
the chamber.

"Do not worry or fret, if you write something serious to come. Shoot me has offered me the
truth. Yesterday I wrote to Linilla some musicians who went to San Sebastian playing in the
offices of Holy Week. What I will spend Easter, my son! And I wanted to go to everything.
Going to preach a new parent. They say it very well. "The seven words "are going to be magnificent.
In the house of Castro Pérez are testing the 'Stabat Mater.

"But none of that I'll go. Poor Andrew comes every night, then you close your tent, and twice
he was here to accompany me.

I like that because then I'm not so alone, and if it offers something some people go to the pharmacy
or call the doctor, but I fear that one night while he is here to
pass something in the store.

"I have hope that Angelina comes to the Father, then to spend the
holy days.

God do it! "

I did not show this letter to Mr. Fernandez, and spoke of it, but I saw Gabriela pensive and
sad, asked the cause of my depression, and I told him everything.

- Well, you tell Dad!

I refused to do so. It was not necessary. He would later need to go, when things were truly serious.

So
things went on Holy Wednesday. The family went to Villaverde, and only stayed the foreman on
the ranch, I, and Mauritius, the groom, a very nice guy and very helpful. Went to the city every
day, early morning, to bring me news of the sick. The danger was over, Aunt Carmen improved, and the
letters I received were satisfactory.

Gabriela again on Easter Monday. Happy the moment I saw it! Those five days absence were ever
to me.

How I missed the girl!

I ran home for it, I would I wander through the garden, figuring
he would find there, and I took turns to my room disconsolate and
afflicted.

The piano, the drawing board, newspapers Gabriela read and plants
that she cultivated me talking about the young, and alone in the room,
I was pleased I remember his words, close your eyes to set in my mind
the image of the girl.

And yet make sure my heart was Angelina because the voices in my dreams, Gabriela did not see
me, but Linilla; to Linilla watching me sadly, as if to say:

Ungrateful! Why did you forget me?

That was madness, a delusion, something like a spell that dominated me and I had.

I said to myself:

Gabriela Are you in love? ...

And my heart answered no, no! I never would have dared to whisper in their ears loving phrase, never
have been able to say :--«¡ Gabriela ... I live for you! "No, because I loved to Linilla, for she
dreamed I said and fortune, when I thought it in the silence of the night, leaning on the
balcony, I pondered the future. I even happened if my wishes were realized, if one day I was
given Linilla carry the foot of the altar, Gabrielle and Carlos apadrinarían our wedding.

To be loved by Gabriela? I thought not, and if you ever came to such an idea occurred to the
I took it from my mind as a thought criminal.

But I can not hide his joy that fills my mind to see Gabriela, to be by her side, talking with
her on the table or in the room, and sadness that gripped my mind when I looked away from
the charming Miss was evidence that was lit in my heart love irresistible.

"No, - I said - no, must stifle this passion was born and it just
burns me.

Gabriela flee; I will be with her dismissive, indifferent, cold, will try to make me hateful,
I want to hate me .... Vanos purposes!

Determination useless!

I I took refuge in the memory of Angelina, as in a port Savior, I repeated a thousand times as she
had told me, his words more tender his most painful, the expressions that had penetrated more
deeply in my heart and when I felt victorious and boasted of having
triumphed in myself, the voice of Gabriela, the echo of his piano,
the sound of her skirt, the smell of his clothes, anything I own did
shake, and I felt weak as a child, powerless to resist a glance, the
most indifferent, his blue eyes.

I decided to entrust my affair with Angelina Gabriela. So - I thought - I'll save, not I can
never tell that I love. "You, my dear, loving friend - I would say - you know, before anyone else, that
the happiness of this young man who is and has been very unfortunate, encrypts all my dreams, my hopes!
I'm far from it, far away, long ago I do not see, and I need to hear his name, that one need
know that I love, the love !...»

But reaching the desired time, and my lips remained mute, and the heart wanted to jump out chest.

LVII

From
time to time, after office, we went for a walk along the river to the fields sugar cane, to the
picturesque foothills of nearby hill, sometimes acaballo, the most on foot.

Mauricio Pepillo pushed the stroller, and Don Carlos and Doña Gabriela followed him a short
distance. The girl and I would stop here and there in search of flowers or ferns.

Once, seeing a great distance from the gentlemen, we sit at the foot
of a tree, a of the most beautiful of the bank, near where the river
plunges through dense reed beds.

Before we had beautiful scenery, long meadow, green Gramal, smiling
hills secular trees covered by flowering vines, orchids old trunks
villages and a thousand vines.

A remote village left the factory, the 'real', stables, which returned
to the cattle, the chapel with its tower wrapped in a blanket of ivy;
the plain right villaverdina lit for the last reflections of the sun,
and deep the high mountains of the Sierra, shady, wooded, and crowned
with fir and pitch pine.

Gabriela carefully watched the magnificent spectacle of the setting
sun, paying rapt attention the noises of the camp, the rumors of the
river, the strange humming with the insects greet the advent of night,
and I, lying in the trunk of this giant tree, not take his eyes from
the lovely lady.

Gabriela suddenly turned round and said to me simple frankness:

-
What can guess what you think?

- What?

- Can I offer you tell me
the truth?

- Yes.

- Think you .... Linilla!

- In Angelina?

- Yes,
since we left eye does not distract you from those mountains.

Love can not be hidden .... When I talk about this girl will not
you answer me .... Are you inspired little confidence?

- No, Gabriela:
Who better than you could I trust one of those secrets that are not
can save much time?

- Speak, Rodolfo, you speak.

A friend and I often give great advice .... Is there anger the girl? Well, to tell a friend.
"The girl is happy? Well said! ... Do you have ...? Ask consolation
... Are you happy?

Happiness is expansive and open. Only the pain is be reserved and quiet. Evil is for you my
friend.

"I did not do the first tell the sad story of an unhappy love affair?

- Yes, Gabriela.

- Well then, tell me who loves Linilla, and Linilla loves you ....

-
No, Gabriela, - I said, trembling and blushing, - I think your confidence,
thanks infinity the kindness with which you treat me, the kindness
with which distinguishes me ... but what about Linilla?

What I love her with brotherly affection?

- Fraternal only?

How me?

I felt choked with emotion. Gabriela wrote in the sand with the tip of the parasol a letter,
a letter, that my eyes shone like fire.

It hurt the heart I like a snake bit him.

I was jealous, jealous horrible! Who do you think Miss? That letter was the first by a man she
loved, and that name ... Was not mine!

- How to me? - Repeated the girl.

- How you, Gabriela!

- You are mistaken, Rodolfo. Angelina is the owner of that heart. I know, I have no doubt ...
my discover insights of women has long known. Angelina's name ringing in the ears you as a celestial
melody. As you see! I'm becoming a poet .... You love. "Nothing has told you? Some day you will
confess that he loves. And then she, who remains silent and her secret hidden in the depths of
the heart, speak well, and quietly, very quietly, so they say those
things! answer: - I love you!

"How do you speak of you or you?

- From you, Gabriela!

The lady laughed, and said:

- Lips say so ... But the hearts!

At that time we hear voices that call us.

The lords had stopped at a bridge where the car could not pass corcovadito.

-
Miss, call us!

- Come on.

Gabriel stood up, and before taking a step looked sad figure written
in the sand.

I, in passing, the erased with his feet.

- What have you done?

- No, Miss!

- Well done! ... Best! My crazy .... Who could forget!

LVIII

I heard you ask for me, I dropped the pen, I rubbed my eyes and went
into the corridor.

Mauritius was Villaverde returning from the correspondence.

- Have you, - said the youth, respectfully removing the Jarano - there are two letters for
you. I got one at home, the other in the mail. I spoke with Mrs. ... and I saw the sick, I
think it is very relieved because I was in the room, sit-in an armchair. I seemed very happy.
Did not offer anything? Tell him that since I came to love .... I made a duck! I took the rain
to pass through the checkpoint. What a downpour! What God commanded! The first of the year!
Go! And they needed the land, the dry was good, pastures were yellow, yellow! More livestock
is dead! I go, Don Rodolfo, I'm dripping water, and I have to unsaddle ....

I put on the table of Don Carlos the bundle of newspapers, I returned to my seat, I ended up
notes started, and then I read my letters. One was a classmate of mine who used to write from
time to time, the other of Aunt Pepa saying to me

"Carmen is going well. Sarmiento comes every day, and is thrilled, because the poor thing eats
and sleeps like a charm. Now I don Crisanto has confessed that the last attack your godmother
was very bad, so bad that came near to have ordered it.

The Virgin I have made the miracle I asked him wholeheartedly, and offered some bouquets. I
received money. Thanks, son.

God bless you. You are very good to us. Why send all salary, and nothing saved for you? Andrew
says that you owe nothing, and nothing wanted to receive. God I will always help because it is
very good and very grateful. I have taken money to tackle the clusters
of the Virgin.

You put the money and I needed the job because I made a promise by the two, for you and me. Angelina
has not written. The waiter has not come all week, and here we are with great care, fearing that
the Father continues bad. The Easter work is very heavy. Imagine that the Father has to do everything.
I I'm afraid to continue bad, but I am reassured by the idea that to be so have already been Sarmiento,
who is the doctor there, but who knows whether, to be closer, call one of Pluviosilla. There
is there one you just received and priests say they have made very good. What I dislike is that
Angelina did not write, or even to know about health your godmother. On Sunday I got four letters,
but nothing I said to you. If you letter send her to the boy. I know you're very impatient.

'Say
hello from us to Dona Gabriela, to Gabrielita and Don Carlos, and
say we want mejorcito child is.

"

It gave me heart skip a beat I did not think in the P. Herrera, or that he was ill. Struck me
Linilla hunch that not writing for any other cause, and, indeed,
I thought I guilty, and I thought that Angelina guessed that Miss
Gabriela stole my love.

Linilla not like me, loves me not Linilla; Linilla want to forget, - I thought. And then oh misery
of the human heart! the poor girl took my thinking, and when I met Gabriela the entrance to
the room I thought it was another woman, another young woman or anyone who caused me interest
or was sympathetic to me. During dinner I talked about Angelina, her beauty, sweetness of his
character, his discretion, your skills and how much everyone loved her in home. Gabriela welcomed
the praise very happy, and repeated as I said enthusiastically.

It treated P. Herrera, and Carlos said he was very worthy of occupying the highest positions in
the diocese, he deserved to be bishop, and his extreme modesty, he was relegated to the Sierra,
in a remote village that was like a Thebaid.

Then we went to the room.

- Gabriela, - said Don Carlos - sit at the piano and play something!

Miss obeyed, and for an hour, until eleven o'clock, he knew he was playing was please his father.

I
read the newspapers, but I heard no music or me I learned the news.
My thoughts and my heart were elsewhere. I felt pleased with me. The
conversation about Linilla had been, in my view, as a test of loyalty,
as a manifestation I love public. Linilla would be happy, his heart
would say its not love Rodolfo another, that his Rodolfo lived only
for her, that his Rodolfo is unable to forget. The idea Linilla ceases
to love me filled me with dread and I promised to be faithful to me
even more beyond the grave. The idea that I could lose Linilla so
haunted me, and such I had so besieged that I wanted to fly in search
of the girl and said:

- Linilla, forgive me, forgive me! I missed
my promises! I've forgotten a moment, but just a moment! For pity's
sake! Do not deny me your love! ... Watch live only for you, for you,
Linilla mine!

I kept lying in music. When the piano calls stopped
I noticed that Gabriela was near me.

- What to bring interesting
news papers, Rodolfo, when absorbed in reading you have not heard
the sonata that ...!

Did not know how to apologize, I mumbled awkward
excuses, I praised a piece that I had not heard and I got to say goodbye.

Don
Carlos de Villaverde spoke on the day of the Cross, the ride in Alameda
and on the hill the brush, and Cinco de Mayo