 Will they be peaceful travelers or
bandits lurking in the footsteps of the pilgrims? I run to them and not move, I cry and I
shall respond.

Oh God! they are dead, is the ancient caravan exhumed by the wind from the depths of the arenas.
On the ride camel skeletons bones of the Arabs, by the concave where once they cheered the eyes,
and gaunt jaws slides running fine sand, and these whispers seem
threats.

"The fool, where do you? Beyond Hurricane hopes, and have our own luck."

I despise them and run and fly more and more, bodies and hurricanes,
do me instead!

A hurricane, the most terrible of those who follow the Africa, ran solo for the Ocean desert. Me currency
at a distance, marveling at me, stop the pass, and curling in himself, he said:

"Who is that wind, the weakest of all my brothers, whose flight languid and lazy dare enter even
in my states inherited? "

Turning into rage, against me up walking like a pyramid, and recognized
by a mortal, angry and resentful strikes the ground with his plant,
disrupting the middle of Arabia.

Haunt me and turns as the saker to the dove with its wings caps strikes me and abused me, I burn
ember your breath, I released into the air and was rejected on the
ground.

I argue and fight, vigorously and break their EDDYING gigantic knots, the tear and bite, and tasco
between my teeth the sands of its members.

Hurricane want to get away and slip, in a column, the drowning of my arms can not do it, and
crashes and breaks.

His head vanished in showers of dust, and its huge body fell at my feet and the walls a castle.

Then
breath, looked up and looked fiercely at the stars and all stars his eyes fixed on me gold, in the
desert because no one had but me.

Oh, how sweet it is to breathe in here with all the slack of his chest!

I breathe free, wide and rid, and all the air of Arabistan enough
just to my breast.

Oh how sweet look from here to the full extent of his sight! Magnify my eyes, are fortified and reach
beyond the limits of horizon. Oh how sweet it is to extend my arms here free, powerful and in its entirety!
I think that they embrace the whole universe, from the east at sunset. My thought is cast as an
arrow, high, very high, above still high, reaching into the abyss
of heaven.

And like a bee sends its life in the sting tripping, and I with my
thoughts to the heavens I raise my spirit.

* * *

Adam Mickiewier is advantageously released in Europe by Conrad,
historical sketch, taken from the annals of Lithuania and Crimea for
his sonnets, but what he has recommended for its originality and courage
is the trait that we have presented, which, loosely translated into
Castilian, available to the public.

FIN

Calpe

UNIVERSAL COLLECTION

* * *

Price of the number, 0.30

* * *

The Universal Library = =, inaugurated by the editorial CALPE, publish
the best productions literature of human ingenuity at all levels:
novel, story, poetry, science, philosophy, drama, memoirs, travel,
essays, etc.

* * *

The Universal Library = = is soon to Spanish-speaking
readers, an essential element education and culture.

Make affordable to everyone the benefits and joys of treatment the greatest spiritual genius
of mankind.

The Universal Library = = published works in its absolute integrity, no deletions or additions of any
kind.

* * *

The Universal Library = = take care with extreme zeal
that translations are always very faithful and correct; not publish
anonymous translations, translations to charge renowned writers. 

*
* *

The Universal Library = = account, editions of Spanish authors,
with the advice and the collaboration of eminent philologists.

*
* *

The Universal Library = = 0.30 is sold to the number. The extension
of a number is approximately 100 pages