 

With a strong reaction of his pride, Fernando came out of this discouragement. Had to be man and
accept the events, without exaggerating its importance. A simple adventure trip, which would
be ignored, Maud would ensure that what happened did not come out of the mystery. Had borrowed
good service - Ojeda laughed bitterly at the thought of it - had been happy few hours and then
they parted as strangers, no memory and without melancholia: the same as if they had met the late
afternoon on a boulevard in Paris to spend half an hour together in a hotel and you never get before.

The
detachment of it was undoubtedly due to a late remorse that had come
with ad nauseam ... Regret, no: simple prudence desire to remain isolated
in the days missing to reach the next port.

Her husband would go to the ship, and she wanted out to meet without fear of malicious smiles
of the passengers. He had been chosen for the relief in times of confusion and haste ... And
what it gave rights? The same could have been the winner Mr. Lowe or Maltrana Isidro. Ojeda,
meanwhile, had also one great love, and it suited him just as Maud forget ... Something hurt her
pride of man be treated like that, but it was the pain of surgery that removes the bad ... A
live!

Rose from the bench, approaching the windows of the lounges.

On the railings of a gallery communicating the music room to the dining room had gathered some women,
watching couples who danced below. They were ladies who would not dress for the party; maidservants
of the passengers rich, single-board maids took advantage of Butler's absence to take a look.

Ojeda
was detached from this group and through the winter garden, going out to the deck, a woman dressed
in dark, easily. "Ah, Mrs. Eichelberger !...»

Fernando held a meeting with Mina, as if it will bring happiness. Clasped his two hands the right
hand held out to him the German, and she, with some excitement for the effusive words, turned
his eyes to all sides, wondering to see him alone, believing it would appear suddenly the slim silhouette
and the American cigarette.

He stammered, as if realizing his embarrassment felt some shame. Gave apologies for they look simple,
when all the women of the ship that night had taken its best costumes. She had to dance, and
neither liked to remain alone in the room while her husband played in the den. Out of curiosity
and boredom, to sleep after Karl, He had looked at this gallery to see the dance. He lived so isolated!
... And with a contraction of his hand, hidden between Fernando,
thanks for the goodness of this to deal with it.

Then, his face brightening with a pale smile intended to be malicious. Was astonished only see
him again.

He had almost decided to give up their friendship. But Ferdinand interrupted:

- It's over: I swear ... Finished for ever! I have no other friend on the ship you.

And he said heartily, glad to be next to mine, pleased with the tenderness she watched him.

Excellent mate!

... Fernando, who believed it necessary to deal with a woman, lamented had not been next to
Mina from the start of their friendship. This did not bother him making an apology for her husband
was sweet and seemed to admire. Quite the opposite of the other that even in times of greatest
outpouring kept the packaging of a haughty lady descending to speak with his servant.

In addition, Teri thought in his determination not to debase the nobility of memories with another
"crime", such as finding qualified with his recent adventure vehement.
With Mine does not face any danger: the poor was disappointed. The
failure of his existence the escape of any complication was passionate,
preferring a vegetative life and humble. In addition, looked sick
... Was the desired partner for the runs of the sea: a female friend
all rest, and the separation is say goodbye! taking each melancholy
remembrance something selfless and pure