 The women supported their heads in dismay poetic blonde shoulder next. A rattle began
to mourn with hysterics. "The moon ... the moon, "murmured each in your language. And so were
a long time motionless, as if he had ever seen, hypnotized by that side of cheeks hanging lights on
the horizon.

An American threw a bottle toward the star. Had to give water to the large lady. Immediately,
as if the madness was contagious, a shower of empty bottles or unopened fell into the ocean.
They passed the bright circle like a cloud of black shells. Having exhausted the supply, commission
and pastors muscular grasslands took the chairs and tables of the deck, and everything started
to go on overboard, falling into the water with noisy splash.

Slapping around, writhing with laughter at the unexpected spectacle, said others, excited by the force
and speed with objects jumping ship at sea, ran the waiters to give
notice of these violations, and the butler came screaming and putting
with outstretched arms between the rail and shooters.

We had to make efforts to appease the cow-boys, who found the game very much in its taste.
They were ready to pay for all this damage and that could make respectable gentlemen who were
in his company. "And a gentleman to pay, you can do you want. "They took notes in handfuls from
the pockets of his pants, indignant that for a few dollars to come to disturb their pleasure,
and only to be calmed back into the den with all the honor society,
with some bottles that a friend had kept hidden under a table.

-
And there was more - Maltrana said.

But Ojeda said. Near dawn that had attracted many commuters living in Isidro near the cabin.
Screaming, hitting the door, desperate appeals ring, your butler
raised his round.

What was that?

- It was my doing - Maltrana replied modestly lowering her eyes -.

I came up with the other night. Just drink a little, I am assailed by the memory of my neighbor
and I find dark man the mystery that keeps the cabin immediately.

He had told his colleagues in this romantic neighborhood, assuming all real and undeniable what
he had in his imagination.

A great lady, Princess Russian or Austrian Archduchess - in doubted that Maltrana - prisoner
came on the ship. Nobody had seen her, but her beauty was extraordinary. And her captor and guardian
was nasty man, always in black, stern face ...

They listened with great interest all: some selfishly moved by the beauty of lady, others nobly
outraged that with them a man could make this kidnapping. The oldest cow-boy opened his eyes
with childlike wonder. 'And the mistress lived locked in against His will! And this was possible
!...»

A few minutes Maltrana could be seen moving cautiously along the corridor leading to his cabin, followed
by several colleagues who were marching in line, holding their breath
as if they were going to surprise a sleeping enemy.

Knocked on the door of the mysterious man. "Sir open you good. "She should avoid the scandal
and that his crime is a mystery. Maltrana which was advised by his well. Should give them the
key of the cabin immediately and go back to sleep, if that was your choice ... Useless to resist,
they reached the head of an army heroes ... Did did the deaf? At one! ... Both! ...

And the fallen heroes with all the strength of their bodies on the
cabin door neighbor to break it down and free the lady.

"Do not fear, princess, do not shout. We are friends. " The recommendation Maltrana was useless,
for she did not cry or approached the door. Each thump of old cowboy moved the entire row
of cabins. There was a burst of screams and curses of people suddenly awakened. Vibrated furiously
in the distance the sound of a ringtone. It was the mysterious man calling for help.

- Where, upon presentation of the butler saw we were trying to force the door of the princess, became
enraged as I've ever seen: a rabid lamb anger.

We missed respect, threatening to call the commander to metiese us
at the bar.

I promised change my cabin today, not to repeat my efforts. All this tells me yet More on the
belief that there is a secret, a great secret in the closed cabin. Had to Butler see the outrage
when we caught on the way to find out ... And do not discover, There is hope.

Ojeda appeared to question him with his eyes to hear this.

- Do not be discovered - continued Isidro - because I just give my word of honor Butler not
deal more than my neighbor or browse in the cabin immediately. So leave me alone mine, and
it forces me to move to a less comfortable ... The mystery man wins.
How has be!

... I see it, and to punish him, I have not welcomed ... And they always deny greeting though
he pretends he does not care. That will teach you to be silent and decent person.

And if you ache to have to leave the company, told Ojeda:

- You can
be dedicated to this business.

If you want, I pay my cabin to spy him. Look closely ... is a princess. And surely if you are
the who seeks It will see. You are the best present I: more beautiful, more elegant.

Fernando made a gesture of indifference and detachment that seemed
to offend Maltrana, as if directed against a person in your family.

Poor Princess! Verla abandoned well! ...

- I understand. You are at the moment things that were better ... But perhaps misleading. Who
knows ... Who knows?

Ojeda continued listening to his friend, but with some distraction, turning his head always
she could feel someone step up behind him.

The deck was fully occupied passengers: some moving in groups, others sitting round in their
chairs, obstructing step. Everyone was up ... except her.

He longed to see Fernando and afraid at the same time. I felt the anguish of the first interview
after possession, when we reflect calmly, faded and blinding bursts, and calculate the consequences
of the gesture. What expression would be yours to be as friends, forced into hiding after feigning
intimacy? ...

Sounded the roar of the fire, which indicated the noon hour. A lunch! ... Down in the dining room,
Fernando felt growing concern to see that all tables were filled and Maud was still unoccupied.
Sucedíanse the dishes, the lunch was ending and she does not appear.

Maltrana, taking pity on his impatience, he asked a waiter for the American lady. Was he sick?
... And after a while returned home with news. He had asked who served lunch in his cabin. Perhaps
he was unwell.

This made Ojeda eat quickly, with a visible desire to escape as soon as possible ... Maud sick!
Walked down the passageway leading to the luxury apartments on the
same floor dining room.

Left safely on the soft carpet to the vicinity of their own cabin, but the twist in the direction
of Maud, was advancing cautiously, as going to a rendezvous and fears being seen. After a short
corridor, with a skylight was the door of Mrs. Power, with a card that bore his name. The door remained
ajar and immobile, fixed in position by a hook inside to get him to stop the cool of the hall.

Fernando looked through the open space, without seeing anything but
the middle of a table occupied by toiletries.

Between brushes, perfume bottles and sprays seemed to reign photograph of a man locked in a nickel
frame. He was a handsome, jaw energetic, mustache trimmed, compelling eyes and a big flower in the
buttonhole. Undoubtedly Mr. Power ... Ojeda recalled the night before Maud had been torn from
her arms at first, running at that table with the desire to repair an oversight. Without doubt
was to hide the nice mister, who again occupied the place of honor,
after Hours of ingratitude and sin.

He played with his knuckles on the door timidly, and a voice question, that of Maud, answered
affably: "Who ?...». But in giving his name Fernando, there was some movement of surprise and jumble
the other side of the door, as if Mrs. Power was incorporated surprised
and irritated.

"Ah, no! Imprudence, not !...» His voice trembled, angry, hoarse, a voice stripped suddenly from
her silken femininity. And as if afraid that the man take his bold bold to lift the hook fixing
the door, it was she who was ahead of its action, blinding with hard drive, which endangered
the one hand.

Fernando remained puzzled by the secretive veneer. Stammered excuses. Had been to know about
the health of the woman: he feared that he was sick.

But she cut these words humble imploring forgiveness short and harsh as other orders. I could
retire. No came without permission into the cabin of a lady. It was a reckless compromising unworthy
of a gentleman.

Stupefaction felt more shame to withdraw humiliated. But was I was talking Maud well ...? Is it
a dream the night before? ...

Reviewed in his report incidents and words with the anxiety of finding something that would could
offend. Because he was sure that only one offense was inadvertent on his part be the cause of
this behavior. Women are so touchy! ...

I could not blame this change of mood to disappointment suffered by Maud. No, it does not. I said
him, proud of his manly power. He remembered the sighing thanked satisfied the U.S., his praise
for the tireless stammering eagerness of a race that, in certain ends, considered far superior
to yours, methodical and prudent humility with at dawn had requested mercy, overcome by fatigue
and sleep.

"This will happen - it was said Fernando -. A whim ... maybe some blush, afraid to see me another
time. In the afternoon or evening talk, as if nothing had happened. "

Up on the promenade deck, saw the people crowded on a starboard rail,
looking the sea.

A waterspout, a water spout on the horizon. He looked like the others, but seeing nothing extraordinary.
The sky was clear with the changeable speed of the equatorial atmosphere. In his clear blue only
black cloud was floating near the horizon line.

This cloud, which looked all like a filmy petal flower with a long stem descending in search of
water. But this rod suddenly lost their rigidity, making the form of a leech that stretched his mouth
without the ocean. A color space Violet was between the Atlantic and the end surface of the sleeve,
and yet, not verified that the colossal left suction. The sea rose up under the cloud as the
basket, and the foam-capped water arena site changed and the cone misty was running across the
sky.

Finally broke up the waterspout, restoring the uniform smoothness of horizon. Passengers finished
the show, again, we run on the cover or hid in the den and conservatory.

They joked about the ceremony that was to verify that it later. Asomábanse to balconies with bow down to
see the big pile of baptism, improvised in the waist with wood and tarpaulins, swimming pool receiving
continuous water the sea by a sleeve and shed some of its content with the swaying of the ship.

The
sesteantes left their cabins at four in the afternoon and climbed to the roofs, Flashing dazzled
by the heat of the sun. The music, accompanied by shouts and great noise children, toured
the ship. Neptune had just come on board. Nobody had seen where, but the presence of God with his
bizarre courtship was indisputable.

Alineábase people on the trip to see the carnival parade march. First, the band often preceded
the passage: children's nannies pushing strollers, young restless
jumping and jostling, shouting all the gear gullet playing musicians.

Then a redskin with large tufts and a huge ax, sweat covered his nakedness with ocher, two black
and almost naked, without other superfluities than a loincloth Mane, holes and ballerina skirts,
and a spear on his shoulder. These black forged with shiny body bitumen, taught under the blue eyes
curly wig. Then, four dented helmet gendarmes and rusty swords, and after the honor guard, Neptune,
that of the white-bearded, with diadem of brass and face drunk, an astronomer and his assistant with
many long calico dress coats of high-crowned hats and daubed with stars, a notary cap and gown,
followed by his assistant, who kept the books, and the barber of
God, favorite clown at a time, as well as certain historical rapabarbas
counselors ancient kings.

After traveling all floors of the main castle, the procession into
the waist down, settling poolside.

The migrants, herded into the bow string after a fence, looked grotesque
silent ceremony.

The central castle llenábanse practicable balcony of crowd. From the esplanade abarcábase forward
together his huge white facade, similar to construction of a palace, cut galleries end to end
and topped by a kiosk was the bridge. On the rows of spectators leaning out the various practicable
balcony appeared Other Uploaded on benches and chairs, moving their heads to see better the
party. The bridge of defeat also was invaded by the passengers, and among the white caps of officers
above him that scanned the sea and watched the progress of the ship glowed blond tone some
feminine head and waved colored veils.

Carnival astronomer and his assistant took the ridiculous height of nautical instruments, and to
make the statement that they were exactly in line, Neptune, with a stroke of trident, began
the ceremony. The clerk read a book held by his amanuensis. German words, the sound rough and
come through his beard red hemp, caused practicable balcony in an explosion of laughter and blushes
feminine. It was the laughter that accompanies heavy the jokes misleading. "What? What do you
say? "Asked the most, not understanding these Germanic wit. And although it received no reply, just
laughed.

Maltrana Ojeda, who were in the waist, close to the grotesque characters, advancing the head
as if to understand something in this story.

- What does Fernando? ... The words have a certain buzz, as if they were poetry.

- Son hallelujah. I do not understand, but I seem silly to make people laugh is good.

Finished reading with a loud trumpeting of the musicians, and the
two blacks, abandoning their javelins, rushed headlong into the pool,
doing various sorts of swimming and running long time with your feet
up and head submerged, floating on the surface of the skirt manes.

Shouted the smiling ladies scandal turned their heads some mothers search of their children, to
recommend that they not looked at. But the calm was soon restored and trust, as it is civilized black,
black Protestants, who wore chaste dissimulation under the loincloth.

His swim through were almost forgotten by the preparations made the grotesque barber. Brought
to light their appliances, and each was greeted with great laughter: a razor blade the size of a
man no less large pliers, which served to start grinding, all painted
wood, a brush that was a broom, with stirring liquid from a tank,
throwing handfuls of plaster dust contained be soap.

Sharpened knife on a large piece of cloth held by two apprentices; pliers trying to hunt proved with
them the head of one of blacks that eluded diving into the pool; appreciated the density of
the white paste with a splash bucket broom asperges of the most overlooked; and good people
celebrated with great rejoicing all his antics.

He started the parade of neophytes. The clerk read names, and were moving between two gendarmes
they should receive baptism, barefoot, with no undergarments suit or a simple pajamas. They
were first class passengers who agreed to take part in the ceremony, and whose presence of the
public greeted with shouts and cheers.

Women laughed with malicious delight to contemplate such a facade to the same gentlemen who
strutted on the promenade or dining room with stretching ceremony.

Only the Germans marched making their first trip to the other hemisphere, friends, traditions,
believed had been disappointed that their interests and reduced their reputation by proposing
someone save this grotesque and painful ceremony.

Ancient custom was to suffer the baptism of line, and they did not give up what law their share.
Moreover, it was an honor and a pleasure to contribute to the amusement
of fellow travel at the expense of the individual.

With the rise in the list of those for a christening was not a German name, the clerk refrains from
repeating and passing to another. They knew the the vessel, by several experiments, that only
the Germanic humor gladly lent these games. Brown people, extremely capable and great fear
of ridicule, taking offenses such as teasing.

The police put the neophyte in the hands of the barber, and he did sit on a ladder the edge of the
pool.

The two blacks were moving behind him wetting the back with angry
puffs that made him shudder, while the rapabarbas proceeded to dress.

Le smeared with white body, struggling to support the patient, trying to rid the eyes and mouth from
the torment of the broom. Pretended to shave with the gruesome navajón; tried introduced between
his lips the huge tongs to extract a tooth, and meanwhile the clerk pronounced the formula of
baptism: "By the grace of god Neptune will hereinafter call ...». And gave him a name: shark, crab,
cod, whale, according to the caricature of himself, nicknames were echoed by the easy laughter
of the audience.

Roared the trumpets at the end of his formula,
the clerk, supported her fists barber in the chest of a neophyte,
he pulled the black, and fell back in the pool with a splash splashing
over long distances. Disappeared into the turbid liquid covered of
tufts of plaster. Blacks weighed on him to keep his immersion as possible,
and finally resurfaced three made a bunch, struggling with fierce
claws that caused laughter. And the dubbed out dripping, no other
concern to keep his hands clasped on his belly to avoid unseemly transparencies,
carrying traces on their clothes dark of the hands of blacks, while
they bore in their arms faded the white hands marked by the neophyte
during the fight.

He was throwing names the clerk, and some, getting
no response, the intervention caused law enforcement. Obeying a sign
from the butler, came the gendarmes ridiculous in search of the fugitive
throughout the ship. He was someone who wanted to increase public
joy this incident of his invention. And when he finally left to catch,
appeared, as well as a turtle in its shell under the turns of wire
with which he had fastened his captors. The barber was wroth with
him, prolonging the barbarous cleaning operations, and free blacks
a true boxing to not let out of the pool.

- Herr Maltrana.

Just
said that the clerk, a mad joy spread across the waist, winning practicable
balcony central castle. Even the emigrants from the bow out of his
immobility. All which until then had remained indifferent to men devoid
of meaning suddenly broke shouting, they stirred the same as a mob
that invades a scene. "Maltrana! That leaves Maltrana! "The noble
women returned to him from above his eyes and waved hands to obey
their wishes