 

As powerfully clear linguistic studies anthropological issues, I believed that would be useful
to information to establish the etymology of the names today apply to the different tribes,
with the name of races, Philippines.

Political divisions of the islands almost always respond to divisions based on language, so that,
beginning with taking charge of the names that characterize the provinces when these are applied
to groups that speak the same language, found on the island of Luzon the following: Tagalog, Pampanga,
Bicol, Pangasinan, sambal, Ilocano, Ibanag or Cagayan. After see that within each of these provinces
have different tribes, many with language carrying different, for
this reason or another unknown, a different name.

Visayas applies to three dialects spoken in Cebu, Iloilo and Negros:
Calamian or Cuyo is also pool name linguist and Mindanao to get see
that not a territorial division the character is already in Luzon.

Many tribes have by name, a geographical name: another reason is discovered topographic, or local
customs, or other relationship with neighboring tribes. Sometimes names are simply applied to local
residents, other times the source the name does not appear so clear
and to discover its etymology is to start by decomposing to discover
the root as discussed below.

For convenience we divide the names that we shall study in the following
groupings:

Compounds with the prefix Taga.

       "With the prefix I. "With the prefix A. "With the prefix Ma "With
the Non prefix.

"With the prefix and suffix Ka W 'in other ways.

* * * * *

TAGA prefix.

This prefix, to join names, it means "native of it, natural." Used alone, has no significance
whatsoever and we find the following names to form clusters Ethnic: TAGALOG, TAGABALOY, TAGABAWA,
TAGABULU, TAGABELI, TAGACAOLO, TAGABANUA or Tagbanúas, etc. etc.

The
meaning of such code is provided for us Polynesian languages: in Samoa
is called taga-ta man, in Tahiti, losing the g we find the word taa-ta.

It is therefore undoubtedly that taga, prefix with no real meaning today as isolated voice, originally
meant "man." Now, consider the etymology of the other voices to which we find attached, to name
tribes more or less important.

One of the major linguistic groups in the Philippines is composed of the Tagalog with which name
are called the inhabitants of the provinces of Manila, Bulak, Nueva Ecija, Bataan, part of Tarlac,
Laguna, Tayabas and the District of Morong, with about 1,250,000 individuals. There is no
doubt that in the old, all these men were not called Tagalog, this was named a fraction Manila
lived and, by extension, be applied by the Spanish to all those who spoke the same language.
This percentage was the one who lived in Tondo, Manila and Basin peoples Pasig, therefore, some
ancient authors, by etymology of how it sounds, explained the formation
of the word as a contraction of taga-ilog "inhabitant the river, "but
this is not possible, because if so there would be missing the point
t, and even if this had happened, it could not have been as pronounced
tagalog in the second but where required tagalog the phonetics of
the word with similar origins.

Some authors have assumed that this name was a composite of alog which means "ford" where Tagalog
mean "men or people of the ford." Nor are we satisfied with the explanation, and more logical
to accept that from the root alog, in Pangasinan, means "land low water is full of rain ", precisely
because the indigenous people to the arrival of Tagalog called the Spanish in the Manila region,
inhabited, as now, land and low-lying.

Probably in those days were called alog those lands, and the name, outdated and obsolete in today's
Tagalog, has been only in Pangasinan.

The Indians who inhabited the highlands as today called taga-Bukit
(bukit 'land high) and the mountains taga-bundok (bundok, "the mountain").

In the lagoon itself, the inhabitants its banks were known by the name of taga-Doong, so people
also called of the plain. Doong means' pier, place, or cuddle shore
where boats. "

While in Manila called taga-bundok to the Highlanders,
in Laguna knew they by Tinguianes