 Imagine what the pious reader would be no despair when followed Mutileder knew Adherbal good
authority that, seeing the urgency to set sail, and soon reach the ocean, for not wasting the
monsoons, favorable then those who went to India, had come into post, with camels at intervals
that were ready and stepped into the road, to be as soon as possible Aziongaber port, along
the Red Sea.

Any failure was impossible because Mutileder came to where the ocean Phoenician who was subtracted
and his revenge. Time had passed, pampanitos have had before that
the ocean might set up a shot from his sling or at your club.

He believed then that Adherbal Mutileder had taken with him to be ornament Echeloría main flagship,
from which he had to command the fleet, and anger that bordered on
extreme, kicked, swore, snorted, cursed, and even had to be plucked
some of the lovely auburn curls that crowned his head.

Through it all, was great when he won his consolation to know that
the rogue and courteous marine despicable flatterer of princes, had
this to Solomon's beautiful Echeloría.

VI

How to resist the temptation here how much more expensive D. Juan Fresco is puffed and proud,
and what you put plump, well paid and given the eyebrows have been
peeled decoding and reading the inscriptions and papyri manuscripts
from which is taken from this story?

For it is stated that a bermejino, for within bermejino was Mutileder, as was Vescio Villabermeja
then, rivals Solomon comes to making brilliant and extraordinary see the role that reading followeth.

Mutileder
not discouraged to learn that he was in the harem Echeloría Solomon ordered before stay in
Jerusalem, spy opportune moment, and as soon as they submit, grab it by the forelock, the pretty
girl wresting from the hands of the Wise King. Thought why not make slightest damage to Solomon.
Mutileder was too monarchical, and the king, as king and his science infused and other virtues,
he instilled respect.

Solomon also was not to blame nor had any Mutileder offended. He had accepted the gift that had
brought him, and had given proof in good taste to accept and store.

Sometimes conceived Mutileder some flattering hope. I imagined that had to mourn Echeloría
he and Solomon had to say, with all courtesy and finesse, that did not love him because he loved to
another and wisdom was that Solomon, who was kind to women, and so polite and condescending
have consented to the idols of the land of each of them should not
be fierce with Echeloría, but not well knew that his idol was Mutileder,
had to give up their claims.

Mutileder came to descry as likely to make the King look to deliver a the girl, and even that
may be smoothed to be best man.

The strength, perseverance and endurance Echeloría had to move all this and more, generous spirit
of Solomon.

What mattered to this great King a woman more or less when had in
his harem queens seven hundred, eight hundred concubines, and infinite
number of princesses? So it was natural that, seeing Solomon Echeloría
love with another, distressed and tearful, and rejected by surly style
and Mountaineer, was to appear detached.

In making this assumption,
very plausible, Mutileder blushed with shame