 Did you know? Those who left never to return, and
yet again, that hundred unhappy that I dealt with Father cuddles, making unharmed and that ... Ingrates!
I just come to see me alone.

- What! ... Do they return?

- Every night. There are those who annoy me recently: the past, and scarcely seem Friends which I left
yesterday, but the old ones from my early days, when I was still excited and I felt awkward,
those are real demons that, just see me alone in the dark parade on my chest in an endless procession,
oppress me, choking me, touching my eyes with edge of their hopas. They follow me everywhere,
and as I grow old are more frequent.

When I got into the attic began to see them poke through the darkest
corners.

For this reason she a doctor: I was sick I was afraid at night, I wanted light, company.

- How long are you alone?

- No, I have family there in my little house on the outskirts of Barcelona, ??a family that gives
no trouble: a dog, three cats and eight chickens.

They do not understand is why people respect me, me like as if I
were a man like others.

Age quietly beside me. Never I happened to kill a chicken, I faint to see bloodshed.

He said this with the same plaintive voice before, weak, overwhelmed, as if he felt the slow collapse
from within.

- And never did you family?

- Me? ... As everyone! You tell it all, sir. So long ago I do not speak! ... My wife died six years
ago. Do not think that was one of those drunken sluts and brutish, which is the role that
novels reserves the female executioner. It was a girl of my people, with whom he married upon
returning from service. We had a son and a daughter; bread enough, much misery, and what do you want?
youth and a certain brutality of nature I brought to the office. Do not think I got the job
easily, until needed influences. At first hacíame grace the hatred of the people, I was proud to
inspire terror and disgust. I served in many hearings, we shot half of Spain, and the boys more
and more beautiful, until finally we were in Barcelona. What a season! The best my life: five
or six years there was no work. My savings were converted into a house in outside and the neighbors
appreciated Don Nicomedes, a man sympathetic employee at the hearing. The boy, an angel of
God, a worker, Miss Prude and quiet, was in a commercial house; girls
- how much I regret not having her picture here! - the girl, who was
a seraph, with big eyes blue and blond braids, thick as my arm, and
when they ran around our little garden resembled one of those ladies
who go to operas, not going to Barcelona with his mother without some
young came upon her footsteps.

Had a serious boyfriend, a good boy who would soon to be a doctor. Things she and her mother, I pretended
not to see anything with that kind blindness parents that are reserved for the last time. But
Lord, how happy we were!

Nicomedes's voice was increasingly shaky, his little blue eyes were glazed. Do not cry, but his
grotesque obesity agitábase with tremors of the child who makes efforts to swallow tears.

- But it occurred to a fiend with a long history to be caught, was sentenced to death and I
had to take over when I had almost forgotten what my office. What a day that one! Half the city knew
seeing me on the stage, and there was even journalists, such as worse an epidemic (you dispense),
found out my life, presenting in print to me and my family, like we're freaks, and saying with admiration
that we facade decent people. We were put in fashion. But what style! The neighbors closed doors and
windows to see me, and although the city is great, I always knew in the streets and insulted me. One
day, coming home, I received my wife like crazy. The girl! The girl! ... Saw in bed, his face
contorted, greenish, she so pretty! and white-spotted tongue. Was poisoned, poisoned with
matches, and had suffered atrocious pain for hours, silence for the remedy came too late ...
And here! The next day was no longer living. The poor had value. He loved with all his soul
to mediquín, and I read the letter in which the boy said goodbye forever over who was the daughter.
Do not cry. Was it time? The world coming down on us, the misfortune was blowing everywhere,
this quiet home We had built collapsed by its four corners. My son ... also my son threw the trading
house, and was useless to seek new placement or support your friends. Who crosses the word
with the son of the executioner? Poor thing! As if he had given to choose the father before
coming to the world! What crime did he, so good, that I would have begotten? Spent all day at home,
people fleeing in a corner of the little garden, sad and neglected since the death of the girl.
"What do you think, Anthony?" He asked. "Dad, I think of Anita."
The poor deceived me.

Thought of him as we had cruelly wrong for a while thinking ourselves
equal to others, and committing the insolence of want to be happy.

The thud was terrible: unable to get up. Antonio disappeared.

- And nothing has known you from your son? - Said Yanez, interested in the grim history.

- Yes, after four days. We fished off Barcelona, ??came wrapped in networks swollen and broken
... I guess you and others. The poor old woman was slowly, as if tirasen guys it from above,
and I, the bad, the hopeless, I am left here alone all alone, without recourse even to drink, because
if I get drunk, they come, You know? them, my persecutors, to go mad with the flutter of black
hopas as if they were huge crows, and I get to die ... And yet, not
hate. Woe!

Almost I cry when I see them on the bench. Others are those who have wronged me. If the world
became in one person, if all the strangers who had robbed me of mine with contempt and his hatred had
a single neck and handed it to me, oh, how would tighten! ... How gladly! ...

And speaking loudly had stood up, waving their fists tightly, as if
writhe an imaginary lever.

He was not the same be shy, paunchy and whining. In her eyes sparkled red spots and splashes
of blood, his mustache bristling, and his stature seemed older, as
if the sleeping beast within him, on waking, had given a tremendous
growth spurt the enclosure.

In the silence of the jail resounded increasingly clear the painful hum coming from the Black
Hole: "Pa. .. dre ... nu ... estrus ... you ... in heaven ... "

Don Nicomedes was not listening. He paced furiously around the room, touching the floor with
their steps that served as shelter for the victim. Finally he looked at the dull moan.

- How sings this wretch! - Murmured -. How far will know that I am here on your head!

Discouraged and sat silent for a long time, until his thoughts, his
desire protest forced him to speak.

- Look you, sir, I know I'm a
bad man and that people should despise.

But what irritates me is the lack of logic.

If what I am doing is a crime, to abolish the penalty reventaré death and hunger in a corner
like a dog. But if you need to kill for tranquility of the good,
then why is he hates me?

The prosecutor asked the head of would be nothing without me wrong, I obey, all wheels are the
same machine, and living God! we deserve equal respect, because I'm
an official ... thirty years of service.

The ogre

Across the Pacific area was known that devil carter, ruffling the streets with angry shouting
and smacking his whip.

Residents of the great house in which lived under had helped build her reputation. Most heinous
and foul-mouthed man!

And then the newspapers say that the police stops blasphemous!

Pepe the road to merit daily, according to some neighbors, they cut the tongue and mouth filling with
burning lead, as in the best times of the Inquisition.

Nothing left in peace, human or divine. He knew by heart all venerable names calendar, only for
the sake of lacking, and so angry with their cattle and raised the whip, it was not holy,
they were cornered in one of the squares of the month who is not
with the dirtiest profane expressions.

Finally, a horror!

And most objectionable was that, as they face off with their stubborn animals, spurred by blasphemy
better than lashes The neighborhood kids came to hear him with perverse attention, basking before
inexhaustible fertility of the teacher.

The neighbors, harassed at all hours, endless string of curses, did
not know how to get rid of them.

Went to the main floor, an old miser, who had rented the garage to find Pepe best tenant.

- If you do not - answer -. Consider it a road, and that for this
job not require tests of civility.

It has bad language, yes, but it is very formal man delayed payment without a single day. A
little charity, gentlemen.

A woman from the accursed blasphemer the pity in the whole house.

- Do not believe you - said the poor woman laughing -; not suffer anything from it. Kindest
creature! Is your little genius, but alas daughter!

God forbid the still waters ... Is gold, some glass to gather strength, but nothing to be like
others, who spend the day in front of the stakes counter in the tavern. Is not a penny of what
you earn, and that we do not have family, what would you most like.

But the poor woman could not convince anyone of the goodness of Pepe. Enough to see him. Go a
face!

In the prison had improved. He was wiry, square, hairy like a beast, the copper side, with
rough ridges and deep furrows, bloodshot eyes and nose crushed, gritty, blue-veined, with bristle
tufts sticking out like tentacles a hedgehog inside your skull take
the place of the brain.

A gave no respect.

Reverend was the males that helped him earn a living, and when breaks or sat in the garage door,
spelled out painfully with a loud voice that was heard even on the
top floors, their favorite newspapers, the papers more abominable
that were published in Madrid, and some ladies watched from above
with same fear that if machines were explosive.

This man, who longed to disasters and who dreamed big, but very fat, lived irony in the Pacific
area.

The slightest question of his wife with the servants put him beside himself, and opening the
bag threats promised up to slaughter all the inhabitants and set fire to the house, four drops that fell
into his yard from the galleries were sufficient to infect come out
of his big mouth the sad procession of saints desecrated, accompanied
by horrifying prophecies the day when things were straight and the
poor go up above it in their place applicable.

But their hatred is only limited to the elderly, those who feared
him, because if a boy passing through the neighborhood around it,
acogíale with a smile like the yawn of the ogre and extending its
hand calloused caress intended.

As proposed will not leave anyone alone in the house, even got the poor Loca a stray cat predation
exerted in all rooms, but whose forays tolerated neighbors because she was not living rat.

Bohemia that bore white and silky fur, and required to have an address for peace of their children,
chose the patio of the ogre, perhaps mocking the terrible character.

You had to hear the road.

Was your yard a yard to come and defiled with young animals in the neighborhood? From time to time
he would get angry, and if he was angry indeed, boom! from kick off
were the Mad and her cubs to crash into the wall opposite.

But as the ogre took strength to bring his terrible kick and loudly
heralded one hundred times a day, feline offspring remained quietly
in a corner, making a mess of red and black hair, which glistened
pale eyes with phosphorescence, and ironically chanting the threats
of the Road: Meow!

Meow!

Nice summer was that! Work, little, and a heat of hell that's bad mood irritated Pepe and it
was boiling inside the caldera of curses, which are beyond gushing his mouth.

People of potential was far away in their Biarritces and San Sebastiano, soaking the skins, as
he was roasted in Cocherón.

Too bad the sea is not out to swallow both parasite! There was people in Madrid and work was scarce.
Two days without engaging the car. If this was so, would have to eat with chips to their reverend,
except to cast hand in their poultry, which was the name given to the Mad and their offspring.

It
was in August when, at eleven o'clock, had to go down to the Midi station to load some furniture.

What
a time! Not a cloud in the sky and a sun drew sparks from the walls and seemed soften the pavement
slabs.

- Arre, brave! ... What do you, Mad?

And while her male was driving, walking away with the white cat meowing painfully trying to
get under the wheels.

- But do you want, damn? Behind, you're going to bust a wheel!

And who makes a charity, he started to lash so furious animal, which left him overwhelmed in a
corner, moaning in pain.

Good time to work. I could not look anywhere without feeling irritated eyes; burnt earth, wind burned,
as if all of Madrid was in flames and the dust was fire; paralizábanse tongue and throat, and flies,
heat crazy, flitting the lips of the road or hit the panting snout
of the animals for freshness.

The ogre was increasingly irritated as burning down the slope, and
while mumbling his swearing, animated with the whip to the males,
walking, weak head low, almost touching the ground.

Damn sun! It was the greatest scoundrel of creation. Well, that he deserved to settle accounts the
day of fat as an enemy of the poor. In winter a lot to hide, for the laborer members have awkward
and not know where your hands so that you fall from scaffolding or
caught under the wheels of the car.

And now, in summer, take your course! Fire and more fire, poor people staying in Madrid die
like chickens on a spit. Hypocrite! Insurance not bothered both having fun on the beaches of
fashion.

And remembering three Andalusian Reapers dead of suffocation, as he
had read in one of its papers, tried in vain to look at the sun and
threatening him with his fist.

Murderer! ... Reactionary! ... Too bad you're not below the day of fat!

When he reached the storage of goods, he stopped a moment to rest. He took off his cap, Then he
took the sweat with his hands, and watched as the shadow all the
way just crossing.

That burned. And I thought with dread in the back, uphill, panting, Lead the sun overhead and
non-stop herding the animals, overwhelmed by heat. There was great the distance from there
to your house, but if you were told that in the garage waiting for
him Nuncio it was not going.

What had to go! ... Even so making good road trip coming the fat, so think before you decide
to climb the hill in that heat.

- Go!

Fewer stories and work.

And lifted the lid of the great esparto carrycot attached to the shafts of the cart, looking
for his provision string. But his hand encountered a few things that were removed and silky
feel while faint scratches on his calloused skin.

The thick fingers were prey, and came to light, caught by the neck, a white puppy with legs
extended, tail curled up by the tremors of fear and throwing her sad Nau Nau, as he begs for mercy.

La
Loca, not content to turn your backyard into corral, took possession of the car and got the
offspring in the cot to keep it safe from the sun. Was not that abuse the patience of a man? ... It's
all over. And in his large hands covering the five kittens, tossed in a heap at his feet. Would
crush kicked, he swore, this vote and beyond! Going to make an omelet cats.

And as he dropped his oaths, the band took out the handkerchief of
grass, it grew, he put on that pile of fur and meows, and tying the
four corners walked with the package, leaving the car.

Was launched at full speed that way of fire, enduring the sun with his head down, panting chest
and fell to the slope that minutes earlier did not want to go, even
if mandated by the Nuncio.

Something terrible is afoot. The voluptuousness of evil was undoubtedly what gave him strength.
Such After looking up high, very high, so from the crest of a cutting load crush their cats.

But
he went to his house and received him at the door to the Crazy antics of joy, sniffing the
swollen tissue, which quivered with palpitation of life.

- Toma,
loss - said panting from the heat and fatigue of the race -, here's
your rogues.

By this time passes, I forgive you, because you're an animal and do not know how you spend Pepe the
road. But again ... Hum! ... the other ...

And no more words can say without the interposition of oaths, the ogre was turned back running for
his car, again downhill, that sun casting demons against enemy of
the poor.

But although the heat was increasing, it seemed the poor ogre that something had cooled inside.

The
abandoned boat

Beach was Torresalinas, with its many boats in dry place for meeting all seafaring people. The
children, lying on his stomach, were playing in the shadow carteta craft, and the old, smoking
their clay pipes brought from Algiers, spoke of fishing or the great expeditions were made
in the past to Gibraltar and African coast, rather than the devil you happen to invent what
they call the Tabacalera.

The light boats, with their white bellies and blue and mast graceful
sloping formed a row to the edge of the beach where the waves fell
apart and a thin sheet burnished the ground water if it were glass,
behind the bituminized belly on the sand were the black boats of the
Ox, the couples who waited to jump into the winter sea, its tail sweeping
nets, and ultimately, the lutes in repair, grandparents, Men swarmed
with which the shipwrights, smeared the edges with hot tar to again
re-start their arduous and monotonous sailing for the Mediterranean:
sometimes to the Balearics with salt, others to the coast of Algiers
with the orchard fruits Levantine and many with melons and potatoes
for the Red Army in Gibraltar. 

In the course of a year, the beach
changed from neighbors and repaired lutes were made to sea ??and fishing
boats were armed and placed in the water, just a abandoned boat and
without masts remained embedded in the sand, sad, lonely, no other
company of the policeman who sat in its shade.

The sun had melted
his painting, the boards are cracked and cracked with dryness, and
sand blown by the wind, had invaded its cover. But its thin profile,
their flanks collected and the elegance of its construction gave away
a boat light, bold, made for crazy racing down on the dangers of the
sea. I had the sad beauty of these old horses, spirited horses were
neglected and weak and fall on the sand the bullring.

Even had no
name. The stern was smooth and the sides or a sign of affiliation
number name and registration, an unknown being who was dying among
those other boats, proud their pompous names, such as die in the world
some, without tearing up the mystery of his life.

But the stranger
side of the boat was only apparent. Everyone knew in Torresalinas,
and did not speak it without smiling and winking, as if they remembered
something that excited malicious glee.

One morning in the shadow
of the abandoned boat, when the sea was boiling in the sun and seemed
a summer night sky, blue and sprinkled with dots of light, an old
fisherman told me history.

- This felucca - said patting his belly
a pat dry and sandy - is the Socarrao, ship bravest and best known
of all who make the sea from Alicante to Cartagena. Jesus! The money
that has won this condenao! The hardliners who have left there! Has
made at least twenty trips from Oran to these shores, and always with
the While belly full of bales.

The bizarre and strange name Socarrao
admired me something, and this he perceived the fisherman.

- They
are nicknames, sir, here we have nicknames, like the men that the
boats