 Seemed hampered by his hidden iron legs
and the pain of several bump. We had a hand in the back to scratch with painful stretches,
but he smiled, showing his yellow teeth of a horse.

- Have you seen ustés that has estao Juan Bueno? - Told everyone around
him -.

Today is Bueno really.

When repairing the only woman in the courtyard and recognize, showed no surprise.

- Nah, you here, Sena Carmen! Both Bueno! ...

And he spoke quietly, as if he, in the drowsy you ever had wine and bestiality itself, could
not surprise you anything.

- Nah, you've seen Juan ?...-- continued -.

It has been lie down on the floor, Elante the bull, in hosicos themselves. What hase hase that bowed
not anyone ... Peek a veil, which is now mu Guen.

They called from a door, which was nursing.

His partner wanted the chopper speak before he moved to the hospital.

- Adio, Sena Carmen. I'll see what that probesito Quie. One fell to
fratura, according to design.

This toa non-biting in the season.

Carmen took shelter under the arcades, trying to close their eyes
to the disgusting spectacle the yard, but at the same time he felt
drawn to the dizzying red blood.

The "wise monkeys' led by the bridle the horses injured, who dragged their guts on the ground,
while dropping below the tail with diarrhea of ??fright.

Seeing them, a manager of the blocks began to move his hands and feet, agitated by a fever activity.

-
Force !...-- brave young men shouted, addressing the stables -. Hard! Drive there!

A stable boy, moving cautiously along the horse, coceante of pain, deprived him the chair, throwing
her legs after the bonds of the stiff straps, joining the four limbs and bringing down the
animal to the ground.

- There, brave! ... Hard!

Hard on him! - Still screaming in charge of the stables, while moving the hands and feet.

And the young men, rolled up, inclinábanse on the open belly of the beast, that scattered around
pools of blood and urine, struggling to introduce a handful in the tragic rift heavy guts hanging
out of it.

Another held the reins of the animal and pressed down on the floor putting the sad head one foot
on it. Twitched his nose in a gesture of pain clashed long and yellow teeth with a shiver of martyrdom,
lost in the dust the neighing, suffocated by pressure foot. Fought the bloody hands of the healers
to return to the open cavity the flabby belly, but the heavy breathing
of the victim's swell, making them out of their confinement and scattering
again as packed scraps.

A huge bladder inflated in the wreckage, hindering the settlement.

- The comic, courageous !...-- shouted the director -. Hard on the comic!

And the bladder, with all his heart attached, finally disappearing into the depths of the belly, while
two young men, with the agility of custom, sewing the skin.

When the horse was "fixed" with barbaric quickly, he threw a bucket of water head, freedom legs
of interlocking straps and gave him a caning to be put in place. Some, barely walked two steps,
hung round, spilling gush of blood from the wound sewn with twine. It was instant death to recover the
belly position. Discover the secrets manteníanse strong force animal resources, and the servants,
after the "settlement", they carried the "barnizaje" flooding their legs and bellies violent ablutions
with water buckets.

The white or brown color of the animals was bright, his hair dripping with pink liquid mixture
of water and blood.

Mending the horses as if they were old shoes, exploiting his weakness to the last time, prolonging
their agony and death. Were on the floor pieces of intestines, cut to facilitate the operation
of the "settlement." Other pieces of his heart were in the ring covered with sand, until the bull
died and the boys could collect these scraps in their baskets. Many times, the tragic emptiness
of lost organs remediábanlo barbarians healers with handfuls of rags
placed on the belly.

The important thing was to keep these animals stand a few minutes more, until picks get back
out on the square: the bull is in charge of finishing his work ...
And jacos dying suffered without protest the grim transfiguration.

Those who were resuscitated limping with loud strokes of the cane, they trembled from the legs to
the ears. A horse meek, in despair of his misfortune, tried to bite the "wise monkeys' approaching.
Still kept his teeth and hair flaps of skin cells.

To feel the tear of horns on its belly, the wretched animal had bitten the bull's neck of lamb with
a fury rabid.

Sadly injured horses neighing, lifting the tail with noisy exhaust gases; stench of blood and
feces scattered around the patio plant, the blood was between stones, blackening on drying.

Until there came the sound of the invisible crowd. There were exclamations of concern; a "ay!
Ay! "Launched by thousands of mouths, I did guess the leak harassed banderillero closely by the bull.
Then silence. The man turned to the beast, and burst the thunderous applause greeted a couple
of flags in place.

Then the trumpets sounded announcing the kill, and repeated applause.

Carmen wanted to leave. Virgen de la Esperanza! What was he doing there? ... Ignored the order
would to continue the slaughter in their work.

Perhaps that touch marked the moment when her husband would stand in front of the beast. And she
there, a few steps away, and without him!

... I wanted to escape to escape this torment.

Moreover, the anguished blood that ran through the courtyard, the torment of these poor beasts.
Sublevábase female delicacy against this torture, at the same time
it carried the handkerchief to repel odors smell of carnage.

Had never been to the bulls.

Much of its existence had been hearing about bullfights; but in the stories of these parties
only saw the outside, what you see around the world: the sets the arena, in light of the sun,
shiny silk and embroidery, the lavish representation, without knowing the heinous preparations
were verified in the mystery of the racks. Y they lived in this party, with their hideous sufferings
of weak animals! And his fortune had been made at the expense of those shows! ...

Loud applause broke out in the circus. In the court orders were issued in an imperious tone.
The first bull was dead. Were opened at the bottom of the passage of the door Stables fences that connected
with the ring, and came with more intensity noise of crowd and the echoes of the music.

The mules were in the square: a lashing to pick up dead horses, another to take dragged the corpse
of the bull.

Carmen was coming under the arches to his brother. He was still shaking with excitement I had
seen.

- John ... Colossal Is this late as ever. Do not be mieo. If this guy eats bulls Live!

Then looked at her with concern, fearing ever made him lose an afternoon
so interesting ... What is decided?

Do you consider the courage to peek at the plaza?

- Yévame! - She said with accent distressing -. Get me out of here soon! I feel sick ... Let
the first church we find.

The leather grimaced. By the life of Roger! Leave a run so great! ... Y as they walked towards
the door where he could leave calculated Carmen to return as before
the square.

And after the second bull, Gallardo still leaning on the fence, received congratulations of
his admirers. What the courage of that boy ... 'When he wanted »!... The whole square will
had welcomed the first bull, forgetting his anger in the previous runs. Falling a picador being
spiritless by the terrible shock, Gallardo had come with his cape, taking the beast in the center
of the ring. Were some arrogant veronicas eventually leave the beast still and tired after stirred
after the deception of red cloth. The bullfighter taking advantage of the stupefaction of the animal,
was erected a few steps from his nose, pulling belly as if he defied.

Felt "a feeling" happy harbinger of great daring.

Had to conquer the audience with a touch of audacity, and knelt before the horns some caution,
ready to rise to the slightest attempt to rush.

The bull stood still. He moved a hand to touch your mouth drooling, and the animal did movement.
Then the audacity to something that engulfed the audience in a throbbing silence. Slowly lay
down on the sand with the binder in the arms serving as a pillow, and so was a few seconds he
lay under the nose of the beast, sniffing it with some fear, as if
he fears a danger in this body who boldly stood with their horns.

When the bull, recovering his fiercely aggressive, down the shafts,
the bullfighter rolled to the feet thus putting out of reach, and
the animal passed over him, looking vainly blindness in the package
the fierce rushing.

Gallardo got up, wiping the dust, and the public, the frightened lover,
applauded with the enthusiasm of the past.

Not only celebrated his audacity. Himself was applauded, admired its own majesty, guessing that
the boldness of the bullfighter was to reconcile with him, to win back his affection. Gallardo came
to the race prepared to the highest daring to win applause.

- It ignores - said in the stands -; often is weak, but is ashamed bullfighter and again by name.

The
enthusiasm of the public, his lively agitation to remember the feat of Gallardo and accurate lunge
with the other teacher had killed the first bull in a bad mood trocáronse and protests to see
the second in the ring. It was huge and beautiful picture, but running through the center of
the square, looking in amazement at the noisy crowd in the stands, afraid of the voices and whistles
that excite you and wanted to escape his own shadow as if he guessed
all sorts of pitfalls.

The pawns were in holding out the coat.

Rushing the red flag, following it for some moments, but suddenly gave a snort of surprise
and turned his back room, running in different directions with violent jumps. His agile mobility
for the leak angered the public.

- That's no bull ... Is a monkey!

The coats of the teachers finally got pulled into the barrier, where they hoped the choppers, motionless
on their horses, with the pole under his arm.

He approached a rider with his head down and fierce snorts as if to attack. But before that
iron sank into his neck, jumped up and fled, passing between the layers that tended the pawns.
In his escape he found another chopper and repeat the jump, the snort
and flight.

Then met with the third rider, which, moving the pole, was bitten on the neck, increasing with
the punishment his fear and speed.

The mass audience had been standing, BRAC and screaming. A gentle bull! What an abomination!
... Volvíanse all to the presidency bellowing his protest: "Mr. President! This could not spoiled.
"

In some lines began dating a chorus of voices repeating the same words
with monotonous intonation:

- Fire!

... Fueeego!

The president looked doubtful.

The bull ran, chased by the fighters, who were after him layer with the arm. When one of them
managed to put forward to stop him, sniffing Fabric with snort and always in a different direction
away leaping and kicking.

Increased the noisy protest to these leaks. "Mr. President! Was he was blind its ?...» lordship
began to fall in the ring bottles, oranges and seat cushions around
the runaway beast.

The public hated a coward. A bottle gave one of his horns and the crowd applauded the accurate shooter,
not knowing who he was. Tended the public body forward as if to jump
into the ring, wanting to smash with their hands to evil beast. What
a scandal! View on the Plaza de Madrid oxen that only served to give
flesh! "Fire! ... Fueeego! "

The president waved a red handkerchief
to the end and a round of applause greeted this gesture.

The flags
of fire was an extraordinary spectacle, something unexpected that
increased the interest of the race. Many protesters until they were
satisfied with their hoarse Inside this incident. Iban to see the
bull roast in life, running wild with terror rays that hang from the
neck.

National outstanding increased by bringing their hands, pointing
down, two thick flags that appeared clad in black paper. He went toward
the bull without great care, as if his art deserved any cowardice,
and thrust his infernal sticks to cheers revenge of the crowd.

There
was a click as if something breaks, and two jets of white smoke began
to emerge on the neck. With sunlight could not see the fire, but the
hairs disappear charred and black spot spread on the neck.

He ran
the bull surprised the attack, accelerating his escape, as if it could
escape torment, until he suddenly began to pop into your neck like
blasting dry rifle shot, flying around his eyes the burning ashes
of paper. Jumped the beast with the agility of terror, the four legs
in the air while twisting in horned head vain to tear his mouth those
demons clinging to his neck. People laughed and applauded, finding
funny these leaps and contortions. It seemed that ran animal performing
a dance of the awkward heaviness of its volume.

- How to itch! -
Exclaimed the audience with laughter fierce.

Ceased to roar and popping
the flags. Char boiled the neck with bubbles fat. The bull, not feel
the burning fire, stood motionless, breathless, his head humiliated,
producing a dry tongue, dark red.

Another banderillero approached
him, driving a second pair. Resurfaced jets Smoke on the charred flesh,
they heard the shots, and the bull ran again, struggling bring your
mouth to neck twisting its massive body, but now the movements were
less violence, as if his vigorous animal will begin to get used to
martyrdom.

Even drove in a third pair, and his neck was charred,
spreading in a circle stench of melted fat, skin and hair burned consumed
by fire.

The audience continued applauding vengeful frenzy, as if
the opponent was a gentle animal their beliefs and do holy work with
this burning