 "Rather die than be different," she said. "Before
die to be of another, "he said. And this promise was made repeatedly and solemnized and corroborated
with the most terrible oaths.

After this, what remedy was married but as soon as the first boyfriend? This was resolved the
father, and began to make preparations for the wedding, which was
verified in autumn.

It was already late spring, and in those ancient ages likewise happening now which in the spring following
the summer.

Aratispi was the most beautiful place this is Alora. Around there, as there are still fertile, gardens
and lush evergreen forests of orange and lemon, but the hills that
limited amenísimo the valley, rather than being peeled, as now, were
covered with oaks, cork, carob, chestnut and other trees, whose trunks
and whose shade grew heather, ferns, thyme, marjoram, Mastranzo and
other fragrant plants and herbs.

Such was then the generosity of that land, which dwarf palms, now usually covered and more than
just serve to make brooms and esportilla, rose to great heights,
while the steep ridges of the mountains, bald now, were covered with
tiara green firs, pines and cypresses.

Nevertheless, it must be confessed that in summer it got so hot in all Aratispi demons.

Echeloría wanted, rightly, take some sea bathing, and her father was
a busy port nice, near Malaga, D. Juan Fresco and I estimate that
it must have been Churriana.

Naturally Churriana Mutileder was also accompanying her future.

The cousins ??were like two lovebirds, always cooing. The more I looked him Echeloría, most
beautiful and angelic and more mellifluous was was put to her. And the more I looked Mutileder Echeloría
to a greater number of perfection and excellence was in it.

Well, to say nothing, because it would be never ending story, the
mutual admiration that arose both souls when considering the talent
or the ability of the object of his love.

Each stone Mutileder pulling killed a bird and broke the heart of Echeloría, by dint of enthusiasm.
And Echeloría, meanwhile, more than charm Mutileder knew the songs sing, had made a serious pita,
so full of subtle and exquisite work, he was spellbound for hours contemplating the deep.

The two lovers enjoyed complete freedom and went alone to walk through those byways and byways,
and along the resounding sea, and by oaks and olive groves wearing those hillsides, and by
the Verjel, groves and groves of the valley, watered by a Crystal
Creek.

But both were so as God commands, that despite how much they wanted, not molested never anything
but a warmly shaking hands and once or twice at most, to consent
to her receiving a chaste kiss on the smooth and candid front, and
achieve the pattern.

The highest virtue and delicacy of these cousins ??put everything
on hold for the day fortunate in that religion and the laws contained
in their indissoluble unity.

Meanwhile they said two hundred thousand tenderness every time. "Your name is a label I put on my heart,
"exclaimed Echeloría. "My heart is yours forever leave before beating that love you alone,
"answered Mutileder.

These sessions are the hours passed, and continued two lovers were together less when Echeloría
retired to sleep next to his old nurse and stay very sheltered or when going to the beach for
bathing, for then, in order to avoid what people say and gossip, Mutileder not bathe her, perhaps
not used even swimwear, so complicated and conceal the ways in which they are now in Biarritz
and elsewhere.

III

Phoenician city of Malaga was a lot of trade. Almost racing Cadiz.
The port was full Tyrian ship, Pelasgian, Greek and Etruscan. In its
stores were sold thousand beauties brought from distant countries:
wool fabrics, dyed purple in Tyre, gold jewelry, made in Memphis in
Sais and other Egyptian cities, gemstones and Hindustan cotton fabrics;
Persian carpets, silk and even the most ignored country of Seras.

Echeloría
went to Manchester several times with her father and her boyfriend,
to visit those stores and buy clothes to the wedding day sighed.

Hallab
then in Malaga one of the boldest and marine scientists had then the
world: the famous Adherbal