 

He also sat next to the beloved of his heroic heart, and spoke for a few hours, with sweet repose,
of British ponies and large battles that the time is fought within the municipal corporation
in which he took part as active. Until, that conversation lulled by gentle, insinuating, the naive
girl was sleeping sweetly with his head on the pillow.

Ramon Maldonado watched. Watched and meditated on their luck happy. Divine dawn, climbing the
heights of the distant mountains, crossing the plains with swift flight, with its pink rose fingers
the curtains of the carriage and spreading a thin and unobtrusive clarity, without which he would
stopped thinking of her happiness.

Esperanza opened his eyes and gave him a tender smile of love, which vibrated until last strings
of his poetic soul.

The lark sang at that moment.

Then, Ramon, the god was increasingly separating more than men. Drunk with love and happiness
too, sang in her ear, her voice shaking, a portion of incoherent sentences, daughters of divine
madness. The girl closed her eyes better hear harmonious music that ....

When he had exhausted the superlatives in the dictionary to paint his love, the sublime Councillor
wanted to finish his work of seduction to the beautiful rolling out all the great things that
could provide, as Satan did with Jesus. "He was an only child, her parents were one hundred
and ten thousand real income: in the next elections for deputies
to be submitted candidate Cortes by Navalperal, where he had family
and finances, and would leave the government with little to help him:
as the Conservative Party was in need of young people claim, he believed
that in the short term could be secretary, and who knows? perhaps
later, in a combination, could obtain even overseas portfolio ...."

The girl always listened with closed eyes.

Ramon increasingly inflamed, at the end this brilliant list leaned
his beloved and asked softly and moved:

- Do you love me, sweetheart,
I want?

The girl did not answer.

- Do you love me?

Do you want? - He inquired.

Esperanza, without opening his eyes, finally responded dryly:

- No.

XIV

# A to be. #

Some weeks later, Ms Carmen disease is extremely aggravated. Could no longer doctors doubt that
the end was very close. The prostration was absolute. He had no in the face than skin and
big sad eyes and volunteers who were set on strange intensity as they approach it, what if I tried
to read on the faces of the terrible secret of his death. For this reason stuck their heads thousand
sordid passions in the soul should have it the most troubled. Salabert thought with disgust
of the inheritance that reversed her daughter. Made new efforts to overturn his wife's will,
but to no avail. For the first time in her life Ms Carmen showed signs of great strength of character.
Although unable for revenge was such a hard time in her desire to end the existence of an act
of justice.

A life of complete submission, without offering the slightest obstacle to the will of her
husband, their economic plans or his illicit passions, well deserved when death claim their freedom
to satisfy the impulses of the heart. Osorio watched quietly, hidden anxiety, the progress
of the disease, the outcome drag Once I get to the end of their troubles. Ms Carmen would shed
his fleshly envelope and that of their creditors. The same Clementina, favorite object of the angelic
tenderness lady, could not enjoy the prospect of so many millions and would fall into their hands.
Tried to suppress their desires, impatience off, but despite a devil tempting him made his heart jump
for joy every time the thought came to her brain.

Infernal cunning, Salabert was possible to introduce distrust in the mind of his wife. Sometimes
a sly way, sometimes cynical and brutal, poured into his soul the
poison of suspicion. Clementina Osorio and water waiting for their
death as May. What comforts would be where should pay all their traps!
And to another: to live, to enjoy the money the unhappy lady! This
remained silent, outraged at the evil insinuations of her husband.
But in his soul sad and weakened by the disease, the tip of that steely
arrow writhed causing sharp pains that sought to hide. Whenever Clementina
came to visit, and ultimately made him twice a day, her stepmother's
eyes were fixed upon her with dumb question, trying to read on their
own the ideas that passed through the brain. This eager attention
embarrassed Osorio's wife, made him feel a disturbance that though
slight, sometimes leaving no visible