 He became what we now call a bishop of the Levite, the pair local chief a game.
A home were constantly the canons of the cathedral, the missionaries that often made trips to
the city, journalists and even the Catholic prelate the diocese. According to these people,
Don Tadeo charge of education and future of Tirso was a meritorious act, thought he paid his
debt of gratitude to the best of ever did anyone, especially a child that starting from the jaws
of a parent progresistón and perhaps heretical, it seemed a wonderful thing. For his part, Mr. Thaddeus
did not attempt to say Jose was a pity he had liberalescas trends.

Tirso raised a housewife in a village, and could do a goat, a sexton, protected by Don Tadeo,
taught from small to read, write, count and pray, after eight years knew how to help mass, and
at fourteen and her godfather could be used to write letters and run errands of those who
do not trust to servants. In contrast to their parents wrote very little, and when I did, down
at the instigation of Don Tadeo that of its own accord. The friends of the former, seeing educated
in the fear of God, he was treated with special affection and, in return, Tirso became all respect
for those gentlemen, that he was included magnates. Priests, especially, he deserved special
consideration. The talking and trying to close for a few hours before had been officiating in the
temple with rich costumes and taking the people prostrated themselves around, was in his eyes
it would have been for boys increased between soldiers mingle with superiors. Unable to realize
the greatness of the ideas represented by those men, he seduced the position they occupied in
the city. Under a canopy walk, talk from the pulpit and give a hand to kiss, seemed more signs of
prestige to ride music front, sword in hand and battalions behind, so when he told his godfather
to study for the priesthood, his childish imagination received the news with such emotion
to joy. What other career had to give a man dedicated to serve as guide means, through an agent
to the interests and biases of the clergy? A canon was the one who decided to fate of the
boy, answering and Don Tadeo, who consulted on the matter: - "No You could think of nothing
better. If the boy is the chosen and get a luminary of the Church What glory for you! If not
... it will have a career as good as any. And so it is up to his parents - he added - understand
that complain if the guy you should mark another path, but who can take the wrong purpose so noble?
"- Shortly after entering Tirso in the seminary, where, incidentally, under the influence of
those who took him did not suffer hazing endured by others.

Then they began to pay off the separation from family and lack of
Tirso parents who spent the first years of his life.

The voice sounded powerful and compelling self-interest, Don Tadeo saying that man could do,
that your family, however, had no means for it. He had talked so much the fear of God and so little of
his own mother, who praised the idea of ??being a minister of the Lord.

The first effect of religious education was to make him understand
that his future would correspond harbored the hope that seeing and
envying those who frequented the house of his protector.

The lessons from teachers and books that put him in his hands, he said the mission of the priest
was superior to anything I could imagine their ambitions.

The most famous of the prophets, the precursor San Juan, had the joy
of putting your hands after on the head of Christ: he, as a priest,
he would every day in his, and he consecrate his words.

The angels are continually about God, but what angel has, as he was to enjoy it, the power to forgive
sins? In the womb of the Virgin incarnate the Word, but only once: in the hands of a priest,
by virtue of output sentences from his lips, incarnate the Word every day, and not as deadly,
as he conceived Mary of Nazareth, but impassible, immortal, glorious, as it is in heaven. What
power and dignity was the same as yours?

Two distinct features of his personality began to develop in him during this time of his life, while
a student at the seminary.

His intelligence, late in understanding, became accustomed to admit what they gave thought,
as preferable to the work of thinking for own, and the ease with which he could continue the
race for that protection to be dispensed, he did little humble.

There was a priest of the brief career, studying only the rudiments
of Latin, philosophy impaired and some moral Jesuit, but continued
the race can, soaking Theodicy, Patrologia, Hermeneutics, canon law
and church discipline, up to a doctorate in Theology in all of which
eight years elapsed, after which the juvenile was ordered.

Happy Day one in which the simple tonsure him a soldier of the militia of Christ! But this that
did not sprout in your soul to the warmth of faith, or hopefully
your good intentions with what could make managing the divine weapons
which would be granted, but born of contact used by the docility with
which she received the words heard so often promised, as was the priest,
the supremacy over other men.

The priest is an ambassador speaking on behalf of God, and despise is insulting to whom he
sends, he said, taking St. John Chrysostom, repeating this and other similar phrases over and
over again to soak of the nobility of their mission, as did the pagan oracles to those who aspired
refer to your service. Minor orders of porter, lector, exorcist and acolyte seemed full of charm,
in the amount of dignity and by indicating that advertised. Being goalie the house of God!
Read the word of God to the people! Throw the evil enemy outside the body in which prey! Able to
approach the Holy of Holies! What a great and enviable privileges!

At last the day of receiving major orders. The Church, speaking to him presented and referring to
him and his companions, asked if they were worthy (worthy illos SCIS " esse?) imposed several days
after withdrawal and exercises, and then anointed and sanctified their hands, making them the paten
and chalice to pair with amazement of the angels, pronounced the
archbishop solemnly these words: Accipe offerre sacrificium Deo potestatem,
Misasque celebrare, quam pro tam pro defunctis you live, in nomine
Domini, Amen, and then placed the hands over his head saying, Accipe
spiritum Sanctum, quorum peccata remiseris, remittuntur eis, et quorum
retinueris, retention sunt.

The worm born sinful mouth, the fruit of profane love, the son of carnal passion, impurity was
suddenly redeemed and elevated to a greater dignity than that of kings, coated with powers similar
to God, as the books said they did study. It was a priest; I could intervene in the most noble
of human government, in the care of the soul. But look at the fertile bosom of Nature causes
of things, he said it was stir impurities of matter to dive into the consciousness to illuminate
his reason with the Truth labeled him a wicked, read the life of
the people, it decried as sterile work because Providence's finger
traces the destinies of man, listen to your heart, I was warned to
surrender to joy, and love to put on your lips, kinky and distorted
the words of Christ to his mother: What do I have with you, woman?

Don Tadeo, far from letting abandoned their own forces, gave parish, and Tirso after his first Mass
in the capital of the province, which gave rise to a party count was a royalist forces, went to
live in a village, rather, valley, whose harsh inequalities was scattered hamlet homes and
poor people miserable, about who should start to exercise their sacred ministry. Then he devoted
himself entirely to the needs of their state: the Masses, baptisms, weddings, confessions
and funerals, preaching, and sometimes take part in games of his parishioners, were the main
occupations. The few books that led to his retirement eventually serve as a base to an image enclosed
in a box: the study was annoying him.

At four months, his only reading was that of absolutist Catholic newspaper recommended by the
bishop of the diocese: Theology, the Scriptures, the Fathers, the intellectual work represented,
was forgotten emerging in its place another kind of business reasons for thinking, and replacing
distinct lineage of devotion to the serious contemplation of the mysteries and dogmas.

Before that, though little worried something of natural religion, which precludes any revelation, just
the man to save himself as to whether the experience of the senses or through awareness can be
reached, as by faith, to the knowledge of God, whether the method is better demonstration
that the hypothetical and analytic: but soon settled down such impulses, and as if that influenced
the country life, overriding the material to the ideal, fell into a devotion vulgar, and thought,
without tending to spread, got locked in impenetrable boundaries. The first sermon he gave was
of a man who has begun to study: after one year, the sanctification of the parties, the Immaculate
Conception, the Pope's guards, modern miracles, the wickedness of
civil marriage, free call of infamy educated, were his favorite subjects,
and the peasants, who at first did not understand him, began to be
excited about his speech, which was not greedy, but the generous,
experiencing something akin to the pride of the mission accomplished.

When from the pulpit looked gathered the flock of the faithful who heard him in devout silence,
I imagined to be the highest performing and noble of human destiny.

There was nothing in his conduct reprehensible. Filled with zeal his duty, barely, very late to
time, wrote a letter, understated and brief, their parents, already used to that distance,
as parents of a son ocean sailing across the world. His life was relaxed, monotonous, without
emotions that agitate and musings which reveals, placid, perhaps selfish, analogous to a peaceful
silence of the countryside.

From the windows of his room covered with eyes wide space, extensive plantings of turnips, lush cornfields,
hollows where sound of running water rose, small houses and scattered half hidden among the
foliage of large brown cupped, and there, on top of a Hill, a chapel with the cross of overhead cut
short by the wind. On the slopes of forests, land tracts seemed ungrateful to all human endeavor,
the summits were crowned of the angles bald rocks gnawed through
the centuries, and stood granite peaks erect in defiance of time.

The sky of this region was rarely serene to morning and evening, at any time of year the ground
was covered with mists, licking slopes and high, rose gradually to form clouds, which, based on
ridges of the mountain, tended the flight through the air, mingling, to the ends of the horizon
with other clouds coming from more distant mountains. The spread of the village contributed
to the Tirso lonely, so I had some friction with his parishioners,
almost the precise relationships given its position, so that, no respect
is the confidence waned, and frequency the deal could engender intimacy.

Many years ago in that neighborhood do not remember a priest so secretive and uncommunicative.

Tirso was a rough character, his roughness seemed to intimate the result of some pride for compliance
of duty, and farmers always kept a reserve calculated as if he thought that befitting his
status as a priest the separation of human misery. What contributed most to its reputation, was the
indifference expressed towards women since he took office the parish. Talking to men was cold,
and dry a few words, but this coldness and rose sharply from point to deal with women, for whom
he was only on the lips sourly and thought suspiciously. His youth and the free life of the
clergy in those lands were emphasize more this antipathy to women. Family members in the offices
of the diocese handled the secret record of the conduct of the clergy of the diocese, took many
months believe that there was a womanizer, and espionage, it was not free to be godson Don
Tadeo, only managed to find that, using what was close to his parish city, Tirso used to go
to the people a couple of times a month, remaining there some hours, no one knew where or what
he was going. This made a thousand conjectures on malice; but nothing came to know with certainty.

Such
was the life of Tirso during the first years of their stay in those
areas where certainly was not easy to undertake all the promises of
dignity and grandeur that made it their own imagination and those
who consecrated to the priesthood.

Then suddenly, and in a few weeks, his life moved in full course.

* * * * *

In towns and villages began to be noticed strange restlessness and unusual move, replacing, to
conversations about the state of the field or the care of estates, dialogues expressed, not fear,
but hope next disorders.

They knew with indignation annoying things, and commented on in anger. The Revolution, which
had an oath to the Constitution sacrilegious priests, and girded on the crown of San Fernando
a son of the jailor of the Pope, seemed to launch a new and appalling excesses governments
that happened in Madrid were composed of enemies of the Church of some of the ministers Protestants
were said and added that the court was hatched a conspiracy to suppress the salaries of pastors
and their convents throw the poor nuns who escaped persecution of
the year 68.

At this news, first spread cautiously, and then violent forms, said the region with intense
anxiety. The people spoke greedy to receive and communicate new to justify the exaltation of
spirits, those who could not read, ie the largest number, gathered in circles to hear the relationship
in letters or newspapers are made of state of Spain, which resembled
have fallen to the Moors, began to act with respect leaders names
forgotten, and people who never flaunted its opinion, said frankly
that if, in those valleys he heard the cry God, Country and King,
will answer to him with enthusiasm.

        In the villages, every pulpit was a platform, each priest, a speaker,
possessed of righteous indignation, he forgot to praise God by pointing
to his enemies with his finger in the gatherings recordábanse exploits
another war, narrated a matter of legend, and continuing through the
country travelers, stopping the guise of envoys in the villages, they
repeated words that were recorded, or phrases of hope in the uprising,
and soon.

Even the women stirred the fire, as if you long for the fight, taking in just the lives of their
children.

One afternoon, as the sun set, came home from a man Tirso, after conferring with him briefly while,
departed in the direction of another nearby village. The next day, got into a portmanteau Tirso
and a small trunk of clothes, and when night fell, accompanied by a farmer from his confidence,
he headed to the city in which a servant was waiting outside, who bore luggage. A few hours later,
two gentlemen Don Tadeo and his friends celebrated with an interview he gave him some money,
instructions and orders to march to Madrid. The parish was abandoned, but what of neglecting the
health of a few of the service all? Agent was needed discreet, safe, unknown to be new, and
anyone who might suspect: Don Tadeo Tirso appointed, and he took the train to the court.

Why not write your parents ever said what the purpose of your trip.

XII

The day before the arrival of Tirso to Madrid, as Don José, Doña Manuela and Leocadia I waited
with the satisfaction that the long separation suffered consented, Pepe amused arrange for
her brother in her room, moving in the room that he occupied a other smaller and in worse
conditions, a cabinet, two hangers, the washstand, two chairs, everything that made up the furniture,
saying he stood little at home and also any part would be fine. Lost out in change, but knew
it would please the father. Leocadia swept the floor and scrubbed the windows of the room assigned,
and the mother prepared clothing bed.

Tirso bound bought a cot, but Pepe took for himself and also gave for his brother's bed, which
was iron. The day before the traveler arrives, when all was willing to receive him, Don Jose,
while he slept, he said to Pepe:

- My son, however much I argue, I can not guess what the reason for his coming.

- I will tell him.

- Why not explain it before? I confess that I worry about this a lot.

Where did he get money on travel

?