 In
both the fixation of the idea and the strength of feeling, are the two principles which give
to the will power and determination. The wind whirled through the pebbles are subject to same
laws as the mass of a planet.

ยง LX.

Conclusion and summary.

Criterion is a means to know the truth. The truth is the reality of things. The truth in the understanding,
is to know things as they are. The truth will is to love them as expected, according to the
rules of sound morality. The truth in the conduct is to work for momentum of this goodwill.
Truth in a proposed order, proposed order is appropriate and because, according to circumstances.
Truth in media choice is to choose which conform to the moral, and most conducive to the end.
There are truths of many kinds, because there reality of many kinds. There are also many ways
of knowing the truth. Not everything have to look in the same way, but the way each one looks better.
Man have been given many powers. No one is useless. Neither is inherently bad. The sterility
or malice will come from us that misapply. Good logic should understand the whole man because
the truth is in contact with all the powers of man. Caring for one and not the other, is sometimes
sterilize the second, and harm the first. Man is a small world: its powers are too broad, it
needs harmony, and there is no harmony without judicious combination, and no wise combination
if everything is in place, if not exercised its functions or suspended in a timely manner. When
man action leaves some of its powers, is an instrument which lacks strings; when evil is an
instrument used intemperate. The reason is cold, but it is clear, give heat, and do not obscure
the clarity: the passions are blind, but give strength, give them direction, and take advantage
of its strength. Understanding subject to the truth and the will to put the moral passions of
understanding and submitted to the will, all illustrated, directed, raised by religion, behold
the whole man, man par excellence.

In it, the reason gives light, the imagination, he painted, the heart
quickens, religion divine.

FIN.

NOTES
[1] p. 7 .-- Verum est id quod est, says St. Augustine (Lib. 2. Solil.
Chap. 5). Indistinguishable between material truth and the truth of
understanding: first, that is the thing itself, may be called objective,
the second is the agreement of understanding with the thing formal
surname himself, or subjective. Gold is a metal, regardless of our
knowledge; here is an objective truth