 The mastiff, watching the newcomer shrink, it grew horribly. Wow, Wow! he shouted,
looking fierce and menacing record he could find in his chest. At the same time extermination
riveting look at the priest and went, though cautious, to him. That, terrified by those wild barking,
swam three or four steps back and spread the arm with the umbrella, which brought to remove the sun,
forward. "Umbrellas! The appeal of cowards, "he must have thought the mastiff. And so bristled at
this outrage, which I had not had a good cleric not to leave the door an old screaming:

- Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Here, Cuckoo! Outside, Cuckoo! Damn dog! Here! ... Here! Come here!

The dog hesitated for a moment, stopped barking and was quite clearly the decision to become back
to sleep as if nothing had happened, but the old woman was satisfied;
required an act of submission.

- Here, Cuckoo!

Here, now!

El Cuco humbly bowed his head toward her and began a slow, excruciating,
as if the path was fraught with danger.

- Here!

Come here!

"I is you, awful!" He told the dog, who did not effect the pomps and vanities. And he advanced with
even greater caution, lock the hoof at each step he took, shook the
tail of a rapid mode.

- Here!

Here! - Was shouting the old.

Finally, at a maximum speed of six steps per minute, arrived at their destination Cuco. The old
caught him by the left ear and gave him three or four pulls hard. The dog a howl of pain.
Then he took the other, and many other tugs. More and more still sad howl. Fulfilled his duties
with the law of the land, shrank mastiff back to the table in the barn, but not releasing it under
some curses and blasphemies. This scene was repeated a few times a day, provided that any person
suspected as now arrived for purposes hostile to the rectory. El Cuco deplored in their hearts
that had not shaved best ears.

- Afternoon, D. Gil - said the old, angry expression suddenly changing
the other smiling melosísima, showing who knew him.

Fr Gil, who was not happening as much, answered very politely and
asked D. Restituto.

- The priest must be toward the barn.

Come in, D. Gil. I'll call him.

- No need: I will fetch it myself. "The barn is here? ...

- Yes, sir, here behind the house.

He turned it all the priest, went a few steps in a dirty alley, and found a miserable factory made
of uncut stones from the river only, with a rickety door. It was locked, and nobody was there before.
Going to leave that place and come back to home behind the barn when he heard the sound of
voices. He went thither, and found, in fact, Don Restituto, not a little surprised the suit and
the situation in which he appeared.

The old priest was wearing corduroy trousers wide, patched, as they spend the peasants through the
land, wore on her feet clogs with socks of coarse cloth, shiny coat through use, and spinning
linen shirt he loves, without collar or anything like it. Was the costume of a peasant, without
removing it or put anything. But what really made pilgrim and outlandish attire is that the old
head and wore a greasy cap.

Fr Gil was shocked by that figure, and more astonished, when he warned
the occupation that the pastor was delivered.

I was, kneeling on one knee on the ground, skinning a calf. He helped in the operation servant.
The animal had spread between the two, most raw it now. He turned his head D. Restituto steps, feeling,
and being with young fellow stood up and came toward him with bloody
hands clutching a huge knife.

- What miracle is this, man?

The future priest Peñascosa deigns to visit us!

... Look, do not shake hands, because you see how I have it.

Good health, right? ... Not here no novelty.

D. Restituto was you, familiar to all young clerics he from first interview. When Gil had explained
the reason for his trip, showed some surprise, but was quick to respond:

- Well, well. I will close immediately. Go home, and wait.

But the young man expressed a desire to go to church.

- To the church? - Said in surprise. Among them was customary confession at home .-- All right.
No problem. Calls to love the key, and wait there. It will not take.

Would to God that had taken more! And above all, would have had time pluguiérale to wash. For the
theologian dismissed him a whiff of cutting down slaughterhouse. While confession lasted, and lasted
a long time, Fr Gil could hardly think of anything else. He felt suffocated for that foul smell;
acudíanle some worries and sweats that were about several to deprive of sense sometimes. Don
Restituto felt great satisfaction in order to get shine your old battery theological propositions.
Each question his troubled penitent offered him, he answered triumphantly with a Latin text.
As the veteran off-hook with joy their weapons to the signal of war, the old opponent of the
Lancia picked lectoralía of memory texts already Perronne rusty and
Balmes.

How can one doubt of immortality the soul, when it is something simple, and simple things
can not be broken? Who dare to imagine that the Catholic Church may someday die, when there
bleeding Christ's words: "The gates of hell shall not prevail (non pr?valebunt?)" How be given
more credence to the word of men than of God? What! Divine Wisdom has said: "For this I was
born and for this I came into the world, to testify to the truth? "And this testimony is not
is clear and well illustrated in the works visible exceed the natural power, for example, in
healing the sick, the resurrection of the dead and other wonderful miracles performed by Our
Lord Jesus Christ and the Apostles?

Fr Gil received absolution, promising not to be insane or an idiot, so don judged Restituto who
doubted the truths revealed by angelic ministry. Shortly after kissing the hand not well purged
from the blood of the bullock, and when he had risen to praying before an altar of repentance,
our priest fell ill. Had to leave immediately from the church, seized with violent nausea. On
the back porch all food. The priest brought him home, and tried to cure him with a cup of sage,
the supreme remedy used against all the ailments that afflict mankind, but his young companion,
I knew what to expect about your condition, obstinately refused all medication. The pastor then
went on to show the garden, in which encryption was so proud and in depth of theological knowledge.
It was full of fruit trees and vegetables. There was not a flower or ornamental shrub. From
there they went to a vast lawn, where he had a few raising operators wall. D. Restituto began
giving instructions, adopted a number of things failed other, forgetting
all about his guest.

One of the workers took him to the mill had stopped because the son of Cosimo had deviated above
the water to dry the bed of the creek and catch eels. D. Restituto was furious and announced plans
Cosme to sue and ask for damages and losses. Of it is not mocked; was determined to make his
property was respected. From there he ran into the cornfields, and the pastor was a fellow with
extreme joy the great state of plants. The water had come just in time, but most of the water
was due to the large quantity of fertilizer had missed.

- You say: where you can make D. Restituto much manure to a land like this, fifteen days of oxen? I'll
tell you. I, though I have nine heads of cattle, could not pay even
half of the land that I have.

Here's intelectus! In every parish, as you You know, there are a lot of wretches, to whom it is
not possible for them out one quarter or baptisms or marriage or anything. However, these
calamities forced them living to take from time to time outside their
homes (commonly pens) a good amount of dry leaf or gorse.

With water and the passage of pedestrians and cattle manure is crossing becomes after some
time pass. When it is well rotted and I'll bring me forming lot until the time comes to distribute
the land. What?

From there they jumped to an inheritance of meadow. D. Restituto, as it was, let out a sharp, mocking
laugh, he did raise his head to his young companion and look at him curiosity.

- This is the meadow below the mill ... the meadow below the mill, you already know ... How?
Do not you know the history of this field? Well, much has run the town ... Belonged to the meek
of the parish, and had been trasconejado when selling them. I had, and nobody in the parish
dared to denounce him. But here was a rich landlord called Lino (already busted, thank God,
last year), and that he was eager Lino the meadow. At the end gave the breath in the administration,
keeping the hand, not wanting to be wrong with me, and brought it to auction. Two days before done,
came here the very hypocritical and I said, 'Father, I do stand in the meadow below the mill,
but if you I want to stay home. "The rascal probe for the amount I planned to offer. "No, I do
not want, you can top it when you like," I replied. The man, seeing that I went to auction, and knowing
that any neighbor was in a position to throw, they were promised very happy. Lancia Y sent to his
cousin.

But this road trip we went to of rocks, and spoke highly relevant, represents sin incurred goods
topping of the Church, I promised him rent the pasture and put him forty dollars in hand.
What was the man do? It was a Lancia, finished him off and handed it to me to me in the next
breath ... What a laugh that was assembled in the town, buddy!

Lino ill with rabies, and as was presented occasion that was after two months, coming from a
pilgrimage, he stuck a knife to his cousin ... But, go, good rooms that cost him so puñaladita!
He did not do ten thousand.

As the sun went down, after having taught a winery, he had built for
cider, D. Restituto led back to his penitent home and invited him
to chocolate.

But the toilet was still not good. Also in a hurry. Refused all treat and started Peñascosa
way. The priest accompanied him some distance.

Out and understanding their properties and the continent reflective Peñascosa toilets that his
heart was seized with serious thoughts, D. Restituto wanted to return to the load though he
seemed well established that all doubts of his companion were only that pumps soap, which
breaks with a blow anyone who has even hailed Sacred Theology.

- You look out, dear - he said with unlimited protection, - the truths of faith are contrary to
reason, but above it. The opposite of truth, what is? False, is not it? And how has to be taken
for false what is divinely confirmed? The things we know by divine revelation can not be contrary
to natural knowledge, because the natural knowledge also comes from
God, because God is the author of our nature.

Because the ratio exceeds one thing should not be considered as contrary to it. Thus says San Augustine
as truth that which is shown by the holy books, is the Old, New Testament is in any way may find
otherwise. The human mind can, of course, aware of the existence of God, our intelligence course
in the way of this life begins his knowledge of the meaning, and therefore, the things that do not
fall under the senses can not perceive it as by the senses can colleagues their knowledge ...

The
evening was cold and quiet. The countryside stretched under heaven transparent, reflecting in
shades of green, clear, yellow, the rays of setting sun. The sea was a stain blue yonder. The
two priests had crossed the main building, where women sat at the front door, gave them a good
afternoon and went to kiss children hand. In the region were open, slightly undulating, which
characterizes the coast at that country. Fr Gil, silent, he walked with his head down, lifting
it from time to time to straighten his eyes wandering, lost, into the distance, the red soil
and bare rocks that festooned the sea. The sun died firing his last flare, which reddened part of
the skyline. And there came a slight breeze that colored frozen fingers and tip of the nose,
invigorating the muscles and causing tingling in his eyes. The countryside was preparing to
sleep, breathed a sigh of welfare welter of voices and lows, gnashing
of cars, ringing of bells and the murmur of waves, melting everything
and harmonized to the extent the limitless plain.

Fr Gil was trying to meet his old arguments companion was teeming with deep and solemn voice. Were
the same as had been hearing for seven years in the chairs of the seminar Lancia.

By leaving the path and enter a narrow street they saw a herd of cattle
moving slowly.

D. Restituto interrupted his theological and put his hand to his
eyes by way screen.

- Are my cows - said softly.

Before they arrived he shouted to the servant that led:

- What is Brown, limping?

- He should get a spine.

- Then when he arrives at the register pen well and the bags, you know? ... It is the best cow I have - he
said softly, turning to his companion.

And as I was among them, the priest approached caring, paternal, and started the Brown to stroke
his forehead, while lowering his head to look at her legs.

- To, Brown! ... To! To! ... Spine should be, because the legs do not see anything. After that it
serves the wash well with a little wine and rosemary ... Teresa gave
it to you prepare ... Born and raised in the house, do you know? -
Continued turning to the toilet with the face tenderly .-- Me D. was
Jovino, your parishioners, sixty dollars for it ... As if to give
me eighty!

This gem not leave the house. What width of breasts, eh? What back room! (And he softly stroked
with the palm of your hand.) does not give much milk, but everything is butter ... This one also
born at home ... Quiet, Guinda, still! ... It is more awkward than the other ... One heifer
still ... No a fortnight ago has given birth for the first time ...
It collapses in milk ... Repairs, repairs that udder!

You can not go with it! ... Each jet off as the finger ... Look, look ... Quiet, Cherry! ...

And
get off a shot the animal's teats and output two or three squirts
of milk moist soil.

At the same time turned his face, flushed by the position as well as by joy, to the young priest.
He smiled for complacency, but immediately separated sight, it was unable to suppress his revulsion.

He
got back up and herd them too. D. Restituto picked up the thread again his speech.

- I know some say that reason can not prove that God is, and this only can be obtained by faith
and revelation ... Crasísimo error. The falsity of this view manifested by the art show, which
follows the effects of causes, and the same order of science, because
if there is no knowable substance out of the sensitive there will
be no science nor supernatural, as they say in quarto Metaphysicorum.

Must distinguish what is known per se simpliciter, and what is known quoad nos. Simpliciter
God is in itself, is known ...

D. Restituto had a most happy memory. After so many years remembered very well his Dogmatic,
and poured into Castilian recited with the same emphasis as if he had invented. Father also remembered
Gil, because I had more recent, but listened attentively, humility, striving to admire the strength
of those arguments, consider irrefutable.

The old man stopped theologian often stuttered forgetting some demonstration but suddenly took
flight and threw strong on the premises, making them sweat immediately prized conclusions.

--...
Everything that moves is moved by something. Or what moves is moved or not. If not moving, we
have what we want, a mobile stationary, and this we call God. If it does, is something moves
him, and then either have to go on ad infinitum, or we have to reach some still mobile, but in
the order of movement can not be infinite process ... ergo there
that still pose a mobile first.

Let us now prove that all motion is determined by something. If something moves himself, he
must have within itself the principle of their movement ...

Walking down a narrow path open between the cornfields.

The theologian went ahead and P. Gil back. Suddenly it stood firm step and tongue. As we rounded
a bend was found head-Cosme's son, who brought her back hung a basket of eels mediated. View theologian
and thrown on him without pity was all one.

- Rogue!

Great dog! "So you're the one I take away the water mill? I'll to flay alive! Is it your father
who will teach those naughty? Are you a teacher who teaches them? Shameless, cynical!

He had grasped tightly by both of his ears, and every question he gave a strong shock. The boy,
realizing well that those questions were a purely rhetorical and
should not be answered, just kept throwing inarticulate cries of pain.

-
Come here, you rascal!

I want to take before your father! See if you tell me now that I I have bad you will! You have
to stop at a prison! Come here, come!

And as it was feasible for both ears caught the old man consented theologian, although with
deep pain, to drop one to instantly communicate pressure other hand
so that nothing is wasted.

In this way, with his face flushed and eyes blazing anger, he turned to the town without saying goodbye
to his companion, bringing average suspended the boy, throwing plaintive moans.

Fr Gil looked at him stunned until he lost sight of. He stood still a moment motionless, oblivious.
And again undertook his way to getting closer to the edge the sea, down a gentle ramp Peñascosa.
The light disappeared at times. Cold increased. The quiet ocean had lost its beautiful blue,
gray changing to another with a steely glare. Occasionally a gust of cold wind made for the
smooth running surface waters with a slight shudder that rippled and momentarily, as if sea
??is put goosebumps. And this thrill was communicated to the young priest and down in the
depths of his being. What she felt in her soul was no pain, no agitation, or distress, was just cold,
deadly cold gnawing bones. Never seen so alone and helpless. His
eyes were fixed on the ground stubbornly.

She dared not lift and question the immensity as usual. He was sure his response and feared.

When
he reached the first houses in the suburbs of the worms had already closed the night. Al pass
one of the poorest and dirty got his attention the noise of blows and started screaming inside.
Stood still scared and tried to figure out what it was. Lighted by small windows could be seen
but not violently shaken some shadows. To his ears came, among the confused shouting, some swearing
that he shook. Suddenly violently opens the door and rush out a black mass, triggered by a
hands immediately closed again. Fr Gil acknowledged in that black mass to a cleric. He approached
and saw that it was diligent Fr Norbert, with his cloak and no hat.

- D. Norberto! What is that? What happens?

- Hello, darling.

Nothing, nothing ... is not - responded without stunning.

- If something
happens ... What have they done to you in that house?

- Nothing,
nothing ... Come to meet people.

- Are you going to go without a
hat?

- It's true ... I will ask ... Wait a little.

But at that moment out of a window of the house and flew off his hat, falling in the middle of
the road, that is, close to the clerics.

At the same time a rough voice said, accompanied by several interjections:

-
Take the tile thief.

If you come back here, you leave without the ears.

Fr Norberto was quick to pick it up and started walking.

- But you
explain to me ...-- said the coadjutor with him and making efforts
to keep step.

- I'll explain ... There below.

When they had gone to the worms, bran into the square and the streets of the Quadrant, D. Norberto
shortened a little step.

The toilet used the occasion to press their questions.

- Let's see,
what happened to you?

- Well, look at that house lives a girl, a
girl just fifteen years old, who her mother is a prostitute, delivering
it to the horse trader called Pepe the Manchego.

- And you've gone
there to see if her out of his clutches?

- I had already seen twice,
and seemed ill-disposed, but do not know who gave breath that man,
and now suddenly appeared and made a fuss.

- Jesus!

Are you hurt! - Gil said the father, seeing a few drops of blood running the cheeks of your
partner

.