 At this time, there are large middens along the shore
this river, full of filth and nausea, which was not at the time of the Incas, but very clean,
running water above said slabs, and sometimes went to wash the Incas with their wives, and at
various times have found some amount of Spanish gold not pure, but in tiny jewels, and their
moles, which left or were falling when they bathed.

After this happened, Inca Roca came, to what they say, from Cuzco to make sacrifices, trying
with big tricks and good words to attract people to his friendship more than I could, and went
and was towards what they call Condesuyo, to where, in the place they call Pomatambo, had a battle
with the natives of those regions, which was the victor and lord of all, because, forgiving with
many donations and communicating with them the great things you love taken and offered his
services, obligations will go to taxes. After being Condesuyo few days in and visited the oracles
and temples in those lands there is Cuzco victorious again, going in front of the principal
Indians, keeping the person with golden axes and halberds.

This Inca had many children and no child, and having ordered and sent some things large and important
for the governorship, died, having first married his eldest son,
that his name had Inca Yupanqui, a natural lady Ayarmaca, whom he
named Mama Chiquia.

CAP.

Inca Roca was dead came Condesuyo, Vicos Ayarmaca, and other parts that had settled alliance
and friendship, many people, both men and wives, é were made large tears for the deceased king:
and many women of the life that he loved and served, according to the general blindness of Indians,
their hair mesmos hanged, and other were killed by other modes, for,
soon, sending their souls to serve the Inca Roca and in the sepulcher,
which was magnificent and sumptuous, threw great treasures and much
wives and servants to maintenance and fine clothing.

Sepulcher desto no kings have been found, and to make known if they would be rich or no, no more
evidence is necessary, as they were in common sepulcher of some sixty
thousand pesos gold and more and less, what would they squeeze themselves
such that both possessed and that this metal had important to get
out of this thing rich and ornate century?

So it was done mesmo package to Inca Roca, telling one of their gods, believing that it resting
in heaven.

After the tears and made the osequias, the new Inca make the fast shut up, and because heightening
their absence does not lift any sedition or people, and commanded one of the most of their seed
was leading in public accounting with her own person, which gave power to punish it could
do for what, and have the city in calmness and peace, until he come out with real insinia
the tassel. And the Inca, whose claim news that was of noble presence, serious and authoritative.
Which came in the most secret of his palace, to where did the fast, sticking to the corn times
what more he ate, and was without having carnal knowledge with a woman. Finishing, went off course,
showing your sight of people great joy, and made their big feasts and sacrifices, and past
parties, the Inca ordered that all parties bring much gold and silver
for the temple and became stone in Cuzco called the war, large, and
the gold engastonadas and rocks [116].

While in Cuzco Inca Yupanqui trying to ennoble him, determined to go to Collasuyo which are the
provinces that fall to the party of the south of the city, because he had notice that Zapana
descent that dominated the Atuncollao part, were already very powerful and were so proud, she
got together with people to come on Cuzco, and so, he ordered its people. And as long Cuzco suffers
no peace, have the Indians, who as hobiese many people Inca Yupanqui aide for the day I wanted
to do, having now to be split, hobiesen come as some captains Condesuyo with warriors, tried
together killing the Inca, for if that day came out with victory, would be so dear, that to all
would be vassals and servants. And so, while the Inca say in their parties something cheerful
with lots of wine drinkers, a close one of the league and they had taken and that the party,
and lifting his arm, landed a blow on the head stick real, and the Inca troubled and courage, stood
up saying, "What did you, traitor?" And those of Condesuyo had been many deaths, and the Inca
himself garrison thought of going to the temple, but was in vain to think, because of his
enemies reached, was killed, making do the same to many of their
wives.

He walked a great noise in the city, while not understood by one another: the priests it had
collected to the temple and women of the city, screaming, pulling her hair startled to see the dead
Inca blood, like some vile man. And many of neighbors wanted to abandon the city, and the killers
wanted to become a prey, when, count, that making a great noise of
thunder and lightning, fell as much water from heaven, that Condesuyo
feared, and no further forward, turned, satisfied with the damage
they had done.

And [have or say] the Indians, who at this time were lords of the province called Quichua Andaguailas
[117], and from beside a lake that had his name Choclococha [118] left many people with two
captains called Guaraca and UASC, which came winning as you came, until they came to the province
said, and as the inhabitants della knew his coming, got ready for war, encouraging one another,
saying it would be fair to give death to those who had come against them, and so, leaving
a door is about to leave for the Aymara, the chances with his captains came closer to them,
so they got together and had some talks with each other, and without become avenues, was given
the battle between them that way, according to the fame announces, was at odds and the victory
was doubtful, but in the end, the Quichua were beaten and treated cruelly killing all that were
able to have hands, sparing children to tender, or to those useless old, taking their wives and
concubines. And make other damage, became lords of that province and possessed as today they send
their children. And this he finds himself cash, because forward has
to do much mention of these Chancas.

And back to the subject, such as Condesuyo left Cuzco, the city was cleaned of the dead and
made great sacrifices, and is said by a certainty that he Inca Yupanqui
not him at his funeral to honor that past, or as they put the package
to them, and no child left none.

After what was according to the relationship that the Cuzco apricots give these things say again
that as hobiese made great lamentations for the death of the Inca, it was between the chief
of the city who would be named king and merescia have such dignity.

About this had different opinions, and because such hobo who wanted hobiese not king, but
which ruled the city noted, others said it was lost without his head.

On this there was great noise, and fearing his contention is that a woman came Anancuzcos through,
which said: "What you are there and why you do not take to Viracocha Inga, they deserve it so well?
"Having heard this word, as these people are so determined, leaving the vessels of wine were
in great haste by Viracocha Inca, son of Inca Yupanqui, [119] saying, as he saw that it used
to, and receive him in awe of the fringe that wanted him.

Coming Viracocha in it, it came to making the fast and ordered the city to Inca Roca Inca his
relative, and left while the crown, very ornate, and made a solemn holiday in Cuzco, which lasted
several days, all showing great satisfaction with the election of the new Inca.

Which meant that some called Viracocha Inca to come from elsewhere and differentiating who brought
suit, and that in the faiciones and appearance proved to be as a Spanish because he had beards.
They have other things more tired, if hobiese writing.

I asked in Cayo Tupac Yupanqui Cuzco and to the others in the Cuzco major gave me relationship of
the Incas that I am writing, and I answered to be fun and that nothing is true; Viracocha
Inga was because NASCAR in Cuzco and raised, and do the same were his parents and grandparents,
and that the name of Viracocha the particular name was called, as does everyone.

And as I was handed the crown, he married a lady principal, called Runtu Caya [120] very beautiful.
And as the feast of joy hobiese past, determined to win out some villages in the round of Cuzco
who had not wanted the friendship of the Inca past confident in the strength of their pucaraes,
and people who wanted to put together, out of Cuzco its rich litter, with the most major stores
and endrezó his way to what they called Calca [121] where he had been their messengers receive
him with great pride, more, as they learned of the Cuzco and were close to Dell, together, arming
themselves with weapons, and set in the high the hills on their strengths and barricades, to
do desgalgaban [122] large stones towards to the actual Inca, to kill the ones that had. E
enemies, putting it work, climbed the mountains, and in spite of
the contrary, they could beat one of those forces.

Because of Calca [123] saw the forces of Cuzco, went out to a large square to where they fought
stoutly, and the battle lasted from morning until noon day, killing many on both sides, and were
more prisoners. The victory is those of Cuzco.

The Inca was next to a river, where they had settled their real, and as he knew the victory,
he felt joy. And in this, his masters down with the dam and cannot. And the Indians who had
escaped from the battle with other captains of Calca and its regions, looking for since so
square bad they had thought, that the final choice that remained was tempting faith the winner
and ask for peace with moderate bound to servitude, like many others were doing; and so agreed,
they went for a portion of the mountain, saying with great voices, "Viva, for long live the mighty
Inca Viracocha, our Lord. "At that gnawed at the resonant voices, took up arms those of Cuzco,
the more it was not long, when the defeated were prostrate on the ground in front of Viracocha
Inga, to which, without looking up, one between They had more wise, his voice began to say: "Neither
should you, Inca, make proud with the victory that God has given you, and take little to us to
be defeated, for thee and the Incas is allowed to rule over the nations, and is given to us
with all our strength defend the freedom we inherited from our parents,
and when doing so not out we can, obey and cheerfully receive the
subjection [124].

Therefore, no longer sends more people die or hurt, we have all thy will. "And as the leading
Indian hobo these words, others who were there were great cries, begging for mercy.

Inca King replied that if they had been hurt, that his anger had been at fault, since the first
refused to believe his words nor have his friendship, that he had heavy, and liberally granted
them that might be in owning land, as the first of their estates, with so much on time and according
to the laws, which are taxed in their villages hobiese Cuzco, and that treats them were then
to the city and might make him two palaces, one inside della and another in Khaki [125] to be
out to recreate. Responded that they would do, and the Inca ordered release the captives, without
missing a single one, and restore their properties to those who already
had by his confederates, and for them to understand what they had
to do and these did not hobiese dissensions, sent a delegate to be
great power, without removing the estate to Mr. natural.

After what has been scripto, Inca Viracocha sent a messenger to summon the men of Caitomarca
[126] quest from the other side of a river made strong, without ever having wanted to be friends
the Incas, who had been in Cuzco, and how he got [the] runner Viracocha
Inga verbally abused him, calling the Inca crazy, because he believed
that it had slightly to submit to his lordship.

Then they sent a messenger hobo Viracocha Inga, he commanded his people that raised the real walked
to be closer to Caitomarca. And walking along the road, came to a river, where ordered them to
stop for refreshment; and being in that place, the messenger came, which was how to Caitomarca
had scoffed at the, and how they said they had no fear to the Incas. And how it was understood by
Viracocha Inga, with great anger rose in the litter, ordering his men who walk all haste, and
did so until they arrived at the bank of a river flowing and high current, I think I should
be to Yucay [127], and ordered their stores to the Inca and people would fight enemies that
the other side of the river were, most would the river so angry, could not be put into effect.
Caitomarca those arrived at the riverside where with slings threw stones at many real del
Inca, and started one and In addition to giving great shouts and
cries, because this is the strange habit So people here fight with
each other, and how little their mouths to let stand.

Two days have questuvo in that river without passing the Inca, that there was neither bridge agora
which were used there before hobiese Incas, because some say yes and others say no. And pass
the river Viracocha Inga, commanded you to say a big fire in a stone small, and as was very hot,
put into it some mestura or confacion, so that where enprender could touch the fire, had it
put in a sling of gold thread, and so, when a pleased, threw stones, and with great force threw
it in the village of Caitomarca, and happened to fall from the eaves of a house that was covered
with straw well seasoned, and then noise burned so that the Indians came for the night to
fire Vian at home asking one another what had become what and who had set the fire to the house.
And he went out through an old, which reported to have said: "Look what I say and what you be
convenient, here without thinking that has set fire to the house, before they believe that
came from heaven, because I saw a burning stone, which, falling from
above, gave the house and stopped as you see it.

For as the main and bossy with the oldest of the people that heard it, being, as they are, so great
soothsayers and sorcerers, believed that the stone had been sent by hand of God, to punish them
because they did not want to obey the Inca: and then, without waiting for an answer oracle or
make any sacrifice, crossed the river on rafts, leading to the Inca
present; as they were before his presence, asked for peace, making
large offerings with persons and property as well as they did the
Confederates own.

Viracocha Inga known for what they had said those Caitomarca, responded with great dissimulation,
that if that day would not have been wise in coming, the next he was determined to them with large
ponds that had mandated.

And after this, it became the seat between Caitamarca and those of the Inca which gave the captain
or master of that town one of his wives, native of Cuzco, which was estimated and taken into
a lot.

In the area of ??this village ran the fame of the facts of the Inca, and many, by the sound della
without seeing the arms of Cuzco, I offer you sent to friends and
allies Inca king, who showed little happy with it have, talking to
each other lovingly and to and showing great benivolencia for all,
providing what he could to those who saw be necessary.

And he saw that he could gather a great army, he resolved to appeal of people to go in person
to Condesuyo.

Of all the things that he went to Cuzco, Viracocha succeeded each new, and as in the city would
tell the war he had with those of Caitamarca say that there arose a tyrant brother Last Inca Yupanqui,
who, having been deeply felt, because the mastery and control the city had given to Viracocha
Inga and not to him, and waited to ensure timely have dominion. This thought had it, because
one was in favor of the dried and Cuzco's main Orencuzcos lineage, and the new of this war that
the Inca had, Paresce I had plenty to do in the defunct, encourage
this I say, for that, without further wait, killed in the city who
had been governor, to be empowering della.

Capac, who had his name and, greedy of dominion, coupled its allies, in an orchestra day in the
temple of the sun all over the apricots and between Inca Roca, the governor of Viracocha Inca,
taking up arms, freedom of the people posting and Viracocha Inga could not have dominion, to
the deputy attacked and killed him and he and many others; blood which watered the altars were the
altars and shrines and figures the sun. The virgins and the priests came out with grand noise,
cursing the murderers saying that, a great sin, grand punishment deserved. The city went grand
coup people to see what it was, and understood, about adopting as fact, coupled with Capac,
others pesándoles, took up arms not wanting to go through it, and so, having DIVISION, fell
many dead and another part. The city was moved in such a way that
reendiendo the air the sound of their own voices, they were heard
and understood