 He turned his face. The city called in a voice of tedium, of perfidy, and the beast wall,
all red at dawn, made him think of the red hooded executioner.

Back was to die, to die covered in sin, lose your soul for eternity.

When you reach the first crossroad stopped. I did not think I did not want to think anymore
in the daughter of Don Alonso, whom he believed he had killed the night before. But the conscience
was had been repeating that if you came to discover the body of San
Vicente Gonzalo justice fall in fixed upon Peter, believing the killer
of his brother and Beatrice.

An innocent would be condemned in his place.

Shaken in both directions by stormy brooding, decided to follow the advice of the sky. Paternoster
and prayed a Hail Mary, he wheeled his horse to put with the head
the north, and dropping the reins, piccolo hard.

The horse reared, but after a while miraculously walked away from
the lair, at full gallop Cebreros way.

- God wills it! - Ramiro thought
.-- An angel spurs!

He quickly penetrate into the roughness of the mountains. Lost at times vague gesture the shepherds
who used to point out a goat path on the edge of the abyss, and across, under a wind desperate, cruel
moors, where he was struck more than once, the desire lying on your
breasts on the sand and let it die, finally reached Cebreros, a rainy
day the time for siesta.

He stopped at an inn in the suburbs, and then at night, he lay down
on a blanket, between skins of wine.

The voices of some men who were in the same block would not let him
sleep.

An elderly priest and a farmer became the first questions:

- And where to walk your worship?, Can I ask?

- Tasty. I Court Road, then move on to Toledo.

- Is that place your worship?

- Soy Tornadizos, but take me, after all the years, the desire to witness an auto faith. In addition,
the chaplain of St. Clare is something relative of mine, and I visitalle.

- Well, well ... I'm from here same; means the naval. I was born there and lived the years I
have, which are for this Christmas time sixty-three senses.

My father, God there was gentleman of blood, but had to take the
office of mop do not die misery to the many children he had.

Fine for a bad call ...

The priest took advantage of that perplexity to recover the word, and he began to refer to,
few days before, had passed its two Moorish town of Avila, in a car
driven Green, the Inquisition of Toledo.

In one famous witch, the devil in addition Diola beautiful face.

Tell them one of the guards said, point by point, the crime of both women.

Ramiro then heard the unadulterated story of the conspiracy he discovered.

- Furthermore, a mule boy traveling with these people - said the cleric - he assured me that the beautiful
Moorish, through an evil potion had been enchanted by one of the
young men more bizarre and very pious Christian city, making it soon
deny the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ and enter into the plot.

-
Good God and the Blessed Virgin! - Said the farmer, crossing herself
with terror.

Ramiro sat on blankets. That great sin, the great blemish of his life had took shape, had passed
the walls of Avila, and now traveling sales and roads.

The steam from the wine-skins, the stench coming from the stable and
continuous lanceteo of Tabernil fleas aggravated his state of anxiety,
figurándosele a living parable of degradation.

He felt humbled and contrite before God, but his pride is exalted with aggressive arrogance in
thinking about men.

After three days, and Medrano did not arrive, Ramiro decided to continue without waiting. Was
a splendid morning in early May. Had pulled himself to his porch cuartago Inn, and was about
to set foot in the stirrup, when his eyes, somewhat obscured by the
reflection of the whitewashed walls, they saw, on a pony, a little
page that seemed donoso beckon from afar.

Finally came this little page with him, and dismounting from the horse, crouched and weeping,
and again demandole hand to kiss.

Was Casilda, groom's clothes, but his eyelashes, his mane and all
his features were so covered with dust, Ramiro soon recognized.

He said that the day of departure, at about two o'clock in the afternoon, Diego Franco, the
ringer, had returned to the Church a gash on his face, and interrogated
by Mr. Lamb did not want to answer a word.

He said then that his father had been taken to jail until the investigation of the truth of
that knife.

- Send your worship say they continue their journey, and remove the
beards, and walking for long, long, concealing his name.

Then, lowering his eyelids and under the white powder blush that veiled her face, said she came to
be at your service and willingness to follow as a page, wherever he went.

- No - Ramiro replied coldly, - most needed your father do that to me.

Turn from hurry and tell me I'm very secretly to Toledo, where I esperalle.

Seeing that the priest and the farmer came out at that time of the
inn, took off quickly wearing the ring on his right hand and gave
them to the girl, saying:

- Take this gem if it can help you in something.

And,

with a brief greeting, he mounted the steed and spurs stung.

Crossing flat, barren and brown, interspersed with an occasional ridge
of similar appearance clipped to the back of mules, avoiding people,
and sleeping in the open where they took the night, came one morning
in view of the famous city councils and swords, without major incident
on the road, which surprised robbers, whose leader, the famous Ridley
Avendaño, admiring his courage, made him return the jewels and money
and offered welcome in his band as the second.

While the cathedral bell clappers struck twelve noon, his horse crossed, step by step, the
Alcantara bridge sunny.

I was in Toledo.

PART THREE

I

Ramiro spent the first two weeks wandering at random through the streets
and squares of Toledo, no company, not a page, without love, alone
in the crowd.

The curious stranger sacábale bed earlier than usual, and almost all morning, crossing the street
and taking Zocodover Firearms, found himself on the bridge of San Martín, over vacant and peaceful
that befitted a man of his race.

Thus, coming and going along the road, or lying idly on the parapet, leaving run one or two
hours, no more occupation than to see arrive in the delightful rural supply dawn. His eyes were
rejoiced to observe the confusion of costumes versicolor of rough brick facades and tanned,
the overflowing baskets, and dusty herd of donkeys, oxen, herds. Was the collection everyday
of the Vega and the meadows of the contours, coming to town by that vertiginous bridge the morning
sun gilt. Serna was all, all the nava, sizla all its rustic smells, their bleating, his ringing,
her singing. Sometimes for a few pennies, the young man took the
baskets avilés some grapes or Ajofrín Mozamboroz, cooled by the dew.

Fed eral painful happen again under the successive arches of the old fortified turret that garnished
the header. His legs sank in a sudden wave of goats or sheep; here a donkey he spoiled the boot
to the hoof, there a cowgirl him away from the sacred a manotón. There was stunned who was not
under the hollow of the door, where farmhands were happy to blow
their screams and pastoral cowbells sounded like bells.

Later, after admiring the artifice of Giovanni tracing the river water to Alcazar, or go one
by one, the windows of the swords, found himself on the visit churches, and, usually, an hour
before the call to prayer, just by getting the finger mustache, entered the Zocodover and stood
to walk around the plaza or below the arches, until evening. The half-grown beard, the pale
face, boots way, the avalanche hat, broadsword and worn long and dusty clothes, dábanle all the
trace of a soldier in Flanders, just out of hospital in Santa Cruz.

Ignored this existence, without vanity or passion, fuel dipping in a similar state to the placidity
of convalescence. Almost forgotten the tragedy that left her back, given their freedom for
granted, and without another twister that he was renewing his conscience
the memory of his love to the Moor, squandering the last pieces of
jewelry and sold her embarrassing hack, to gather in this way you
avoid some doubloons for some time the dastardly emergency money.

It was no longer his hapless love or the death of the traitor Beatrice crying in his chest. All this
had been a tragic bent sheet forever, an accident of fate let not against you on account .--
The wife or a bride who mocks us - there said to himself - is truck, at first, our worst enemy,
once discovered it is not but to kill him without mercy, then forget
it, forget it all, the heart to sweep your name, bury his memory like
a rag of pestiferous.

That is the old law of honor. Instead, the brief account of the clergy, in the sale of Cebreros
had renewed in spirit musings and remorse he felt forever abolished.

So unexpected, distant scenes of his cohabitation with Aixa was revived in his memory with excruciating
resiliency, and came to think that other sin of his life totaling all sin like this, and that
his soul was lost for eternity if I did not bleed so great betrayal
the kingdom, against the memory of their elders and against the Holy
Church of Christ.

At the same time, a strange fear began to shake. What was that grass juice hechiceriles drinking
had been done without him noticing? Would not mediated, indeed, like the priest said, some
filter, some evil potion? He remembered the look so deep, so strange that his former mistress had
led before the Tribunal of the Inquisition, the be dragged back to
the torture, and thought some terrible aojamiento, whose influence
could last for the rest of his life.

- What understandable impulse
- then he asked himself - just direct you to Toledo, where she had
to be conducted by the peons of the Inquisition?

This last thought doeth shudder at times and filled him with superhuman fear, but sometimes, an
inner voice whispered and accommodating his Divine Majesty had wished Righteous bring the city
to dry out the fire he saw his old pond lust.

Some days, I spent long hours wandering around the Cathedral, as in a forest of stone blooming
all hot glass, and, meditating at the same time sin, postrábase knees, here and there, in
the shadow of the chapels. But in moments of acute distress preferred a of these churches intimate,
such as San Andrés, San Torcuato, Santo Domingo el Real, San Juan Penance, where all evenly
along a lonely altar, with his face in his palms. Other times racked their trouble walking and
walking the streets, random whim.

Toledo subdued him with its complicated mystery. It was a very different city from his hometown.
Avila, in addition to being so small, was neat and understandable. Instead, it's easy to get lost
arabesque in the streets of Toledo. Here the sky was almost always from the bottom a moat and indigo
trimmed closely with overloaded double black shed eaves. In some streets, narrow as brokers,
the facades were built long dark, and only the top was burning on the lime, the sharp band of sun.

Shadow
on these channels, the chest closed balconies suspended their intelligence and mystery. Sometimes
a snow-white arm sticking out from the woods and threw into Ramiro a flower or icing. The fiery gates,
bristling with iron, suggested in caution of the old seraglio. Ramiro peeped a whiff of the Orient,
all transcended to him to magic, necromancy, a Koran, and religious hatred, exalted by his
remorse, the heart contracted as he crossed the neighborhoods of
the Moors, between the crowded shacks multicolored silk of scarlet
caps, cereal, spices, perfumes.

The walls to the height of a man, were blackened by the same brush indolent Slimming the pillars
of the mosque. The convert, with its hairy legs crossed on the counter buyers called the pan swatting
balance of copper. It was the same garrulous, the same gestures,
the same threats and harmless the suburb bestial Santiago, but far
more tumultuous.

Sometimes, he passed a window, listening Ramiro the rumor of a zambra, and his imagination conjured
up, in spite of himself, bare feet Aixa by hammering the bracelets, her mouth painted eyelashes
and full of love spells. Then looking toward both sides, serious signs of religion: the shrines,
the convent walls and the cross itself victorious, on top of the towers, where still shining
glazed tile embedded by the infidels.

The stale remembered stories he had read or heard concerning Toledo, lewd stories given off
as lovers clothes, the smell of fever and lust.

So that city now spoke the language of his own pain, as if it were the transcript of his soul
corporeal.

Toledo was the city remorseful and penitent, the city of atonement. Their monasteries were erasing
with blood and tears, the shame of the harems, the lubricity of the bathrooms and sofas. The
tremendous monastic virginity finally vanished for ever, the shadow of Jarifa and Galiano. The swab
purified exorcised mihrabs mosques and pools ablutions. Many layers of lime had been hidden and
riddled arabesques.

The frantic voices of the monks, in the dark chorus, drowning in memory until the last echo
of the song of the muezzin. The wax and oil burning continuously.

       Cried the ancient minarets with Catholic bells remorse.

A dream of another life, a yearning for eternal salvation shone on the pupil's febriciente
nobles, almost all in black dresses. The dwellings themselves had monastic face. Lived in them
a life of silence and shadow. A lantern lit continuously dark hallways in an image of Our
Lady, as the goal of beaterios, and disseminated in the environment lattice church perfumes.
That city, desecrated by Jews and Moors, antojábasele Ramiro, sunk as one being in immense pain religious
and dusk, believed to breathe through the streets, wandering breath of waking breath feverish
insomnia, penance.

He also had to exorcise his heart, erase other lewd and perjury, and fold the all the shameful
memory that stood like a rock between God and soul.

* * * * *

One afternoon, sitting on a bench of Zocodover, linked Ramiro friendship with the old swordsmith
Sunday de Aguirre.

It was time for a nap. It seemed as if the stroke of a fall on Toledo which hypnotic spell.
Everything is sinking, at first, in the same spell. Up wandering
vendors fell down with his goods, where it took the blow of the clapper.

In the plaza, more than one third the bedclothes and fell asleep. Everyone idle corrillera,
thugs, beggars, disabled soldiers, artisans out of work, gentlemen
sheet with waxed mustaches and colored tights, and more than a petty
hidalguejo, mingled common that rest under the crystal light.

The village trimmed blinding whiteness of a sapphire sky. The roosters
crowed in the distance in cigarrales.

Ramiro minutely observed Verdaches those piles of coats and brown. Meanwhile, on his right, the
swordsmith watched him straight in the eye, as if to make friends. Finally, in a low voice and
pointing the weapon that Ramiro had been suspended from the girdle, burst:

- Does it leave the gentleman to look at that beautiful sword hand he leads?

Ramiro is the best they offered.

The man, after he unsheathed a blade span, recazo carefully observed:

- Not in vain - he added - I had jewel winked. Here is the brand of my father's Hortunas Aguirre,
that God!

Then undressing completely, the tip asiola the other hand, and, arching like a reed, then let
them fall away sharply. The metal rang like a bell that sounded far away.

- Oh, not forged swords of this sort, sir knight! - Domingo de Aguirre added .-- The Steel
is becoming dirtier and more vile temper.

- It is said, indeed - Ramiro said, - you have lost some secrets of the past.

- As for secrets, sir, never were. The water from the Tagus is up the same, the mud did not changed,
the fire is always fire, and point to what should be done everyone knows it. What is missing
is the honor.

Today everything is interested and malice. Out of one another as Ayala or Jusepe de la Hera, but
no longer looking to fill soon and the bank.

In my time beat each sword as if we're looking at the world and God thyself. If not leave honored
and enforced, as it should be, do not we put on the market for all
the gold of the Indies.

Ah, when I was on a sheet and sacábala finish last of the embers,
color liver and the kidney anointed him to end up putting it to cool,
the heart was trembling, gentle sir!

Ramiro observed sideways at his partner. She wore a beautiful hazel color doublet hinted crimson
velvet doublet. A gold circlet around her sparkled high hat. Her sallow face, wide and bulky to
the front, was narrowing as a fig brown, to conclude her chin.

Under yet black brows, shining Two eyes sharp and nervous, who had lived tasting fair dye
irons and following the arabesque of ataujías. The fire had scorched their hands and dark warty
like branches.

His face looked serious and stern expressed honor and firmness.

While Ramiro had always looked with aristocratic contempt anyone who debased their mechanical trades
hands, he thought this time that the wise manufacture of the weapons should be free of villainy,
as illustrious task in the service of the highest enterprises. In addition, he had heard that
Mr. Toledo did not disdain the treatment of espaderos distinguished and that the forges of
the city were meeting place and playground for the nobles.

Those architects were certainly deserving of special respect. Locked in the smoky workshop, Domenico
as iron Cyclops tenacious and brave fire, and were broadcast from one generation to the priesthood
of his master's rude. The passion of the race had claimed to use these steels highest unique tool
that distinguished honor and domination.

Their daggers, their shields, their rapiers, armor, had become so famous Toledo as the councils.

Domingo
de Aguirre, having returned the sword, now supported both hands in his and continued saying

-
How much, sir, that weapons are no longer what they were, when we
see that the entire nation track to their doom?

Ramiro made a gesture of astonishment.

- Yes, sir knight, Spain lost. The Courts claim and the King does not hear. The commoner he
is breaking the backbone under the burden of taxes, sick industries worm of the sales tax, cities chagrin,
squalid camps. Agora whole art private is to plunder the villages. Today all the Esquiline gnaw
to the blood, although perish tomorrow. Daca, daca, and Menga vénguese against which it comes.

- And you think your worship - said Ramiro - tribute that we should leave more or less honorable
wars that are settling our reputation around the world and the nation will Spanish wonder of the coming
centuries?

He said interruption polite accent, but are not counteract those verbs that began to interest
and that at times brought him to mind the words of Bracamonte.

- Wars honorable, sir, were those of yesteryear, when kingdoms were won by the sword, - said
the swordsmith, - but they all done that or lost doubloons ailments.

Do you think perhaps your worship that the thirds are now to the war for the glory or the triumph our
holy religion?

Today, as I do tell the soldier of an appetizer, which has little
I wrote ...

He paused, mondo chest, and as a helper, he recited the
following speech:

- Today, vote Lordy, no shield to defend as it
sounds in the bag, drummer you do go better than doubloons, more lucid
than real silver.

Once risked life for the glory of the king, his face Hogan struck in Segovia. Gánanse duchies with
ducats, the streets of France with their own guns, and I swear by Saint Andrew!, previously
do heretics quarters holgárame my pennies to quarters.
- Clever Language - Ramiro said. Then, raising his head and covering
his eyes full scope of Zocodover, abruptly asked: - Can you tell me
if this is your grace the square where he celebrated his car the Inquisition?

-
Here thyself.

- What are as lucid as they say?

- The Agora is not
present, but tawny owls - the sword maker said, adding at once with
melancholy countenance - how little freeloaders Ah, gentle sir, the
glories of this world! Just putting cherry vase Escura and mushy as
it is, then the bug tasting. No longer cars, but the joys mesmos agora
games or what to do with what they witnessed my eyes of youth? What
did that dress and that greatness? Who will see again those entries
of princes and those old parties, and those lights and costumes, and
those Botafuegos bizarre and flying firework? What became of those
joys, where gangs they would just passed their Marlotes silk, and
the girls of the brothel, arrayed fine gold and of veils, dancing
to the sound of the drum through the streets canopied? Yes, gentle
sir, Toledo Toledo is no longer - this time he cried, shaking a negative
index .-- With the court left the greatest lords, and their architects,
who gave it such fame are agora as agorgojado grain. Do you know your
grace that even the silk twisters, compelled to it by excessive taxes,
they fall in the fraud and concealment, and that some will add salt
or waited until heavy oil, double the thread good with the raw, without
twisting and taking Moorish slaves or to lower wages? Ah, no longer
checked by the same, no, this head the Spains!

The nap was nearing
completion. Some packages gave unmistakable signs of awakening. Two
constables walking in the sun.

Aguirre, explaining at once the franchise
of his art, finally said:

- Your worship knows, without doubt, that
the office of the swordsmith is noble, and before that detracts clean
the blood, which without it would not have exercised my father nor
I mesmo, because our house is very old and connects back in the days
of King Wise, with Mr. de Haro, which is like saying the first family
in Spain