 

Holy Week had started, and was the most opportune time to make a visit to the "imperial Toledo ',
the ancient capital of a Moorish kingdom, and the Spanish monarchy to early the reign of Philip
II. Although Spain held every major capital quite pageantry of Holy Week, Seville, Toledo and
Madrid called in those days mainly to care.

Sevilla excels as a second Rome, doing wonders of ostentation in appearances of religion is confused
with the passing of the mundane realities, and the Catholic festival complete with a huge fair,
which meets as Andalusia has more rich, most original and distinctive. From all over Spain flock
foreigners, mere walkers and the speculators or traders, to have fun, poke or business in the big
city Andalusia.

Madrid shines only on Thursdays and Fridays saints exorbitant luxury accouterments of people,
ceremonies, processions courtesans and two simple by train, but they
call much attention by the magnificence of the processions that accompany
chaired staff of the Queen and her consort.

With regard to Toledo, she has always been the point of reunion of all people do not courtesans
who like the big shows and religious contemplation of monuments across the territory of New Castile.
Currently, the influx of foreigners is much higher Toledo, during Holy Week to mark the railway
already established, which links to Aranjuez with that city offering many amenities to the locals.
That fact has made Toledo new needs arise, including the establishment of funds and leverage inns In
order to provide accommodation to the many travelers who go to see
the wonders or at least curious of that unique city.

The train left Madrid, moved quickly ahead of Getafe, Pinto, Valdemoro and Science pozuelos, populations
without any particular grace or a total of 10.600 inhabitants played Aranjuez, and then away from
the railway line leading to the port of Alicante on the Mediterranean, branching took part of
Toledo, who started ahead of Castillejo, through Algodor, isolated
station pier serves Peublo surrounding thirteen small, more or less
sections of the road.

From Aranjuez to Toledo the scenery is lovely, because the railroad follows the valley the Tagus,
on the left bank, approaching, touching sometimes almost on the beach the lazy river. On one
side are as low temper undulating Montes de Toledo, Breast graceful granite hills and sandy clay
surface, absolutely naked of natural vegetation, but covered with crops of grain, small olive groves
and vineyards, at points less sterile while on the rugged hills or very uneven fields citrus
and some herds graze sheep or cows do, which groups contrast on the horizon with rocky peaks
that rise here and there on the backs of the highest hills.

Extends across a double belt and shining green, flat and uneven width, wetted by the Tagus, which
contrasts most notably, for its rich vegetation and scenic joy, with the bare sandy hills and
fields I just mentioned. White poplar forest and many gigantic trees occur, sometimes alternating
with beautiful meadows, where magnificent jump and frolicking foals, the sleek cows and sheep
from the offspring robust Selected real estate belonging to, or to several owners who own
land in vegas or the banks of the Tagus. At some points, all the way to Toledo, are rich plantations
of herbs, and a queen wherever life-giving moisture to the vegetation, but disastrous for
the population for intermittent fevers occur in a few months Tajo
spills, which lacks a well defined and deep bed.

The train stops in the valley of the Tagus, at the foot of the eminence, which serves as a seat
to Toledo, about a mile from the city. There take a sort of car-care, still rudimentary, very
embarrassing situation when many travelers. When I arrived to the station it was raining in torrents,
and there were no buses that make the journey to the center of Toledo. I was about to return from
there to Madrid nomas, and without the generous gift of a Spanish
gentleman who gave me a seat in his private carriage, he could not
climb the top of the very poor and atrasadísima imperial Toledo.

Nothing is more rare, but unique in its structure to that city, so full of monuments and memories
as devoid of industry and modern vitality. As in Spain do not travel to seek cities factories
and fields of modern style, but by studying a country of very special conditions, Toledo loves
the traveler's visit, notwithstanding the odious nuisance do they do life there unpleasant.
Lost in a maze of alleys and byways, but had a guide, I wandered for two hours looking for
accommodation in the city. She was desperate to find a corner which set me, ask after ten or
twelve more inns or guesthouses or less overt, when chance allowed me to find a makeshift inn, decent
for that matter, but that demanded conformity. Toledo had in those days four or five thousand
guests; and though the city, it has only 17.275 inhabitants, may contain materials in their house
twice, it lacks resources and facilities to accommodate it to two
hundred guests.

Toledo is, par excellence, the summary of old Spain. Let your description.

A huge rock or small peninsula shaped mountain rises in a steep and severe on the right bank of the
Tagus, which is interrupted narrow valley at the foot of the city south. Granite hills high
rise in a semi-circular cordon south east, surrounding for these sides to Toledo. Northwest
emerges from other similar hills which dominate the Tagus to either side, a narrow tongue
of land, a rocky and hilly isthmus, linking with the seat of Toledo. El Tajo, reaching north
of the city and east of the isthmus, rushes like a torrent in the deep open separating the mountain
City ESE rocky cord, surrounding the giant based in Toledo, making a circle almost complete,
and returns to the north, to seek its own course, licking the west the granite foundations
of the isthmus that links the river peninsula with laces Toledo the
hills of NO

Thus, Toledo is incommunicado topographically everywhere
except one, taking sides to the profound depths of the Tagus, which
descends very rapidly through rocks great chops almost perpendicular.

Also, on top of the huge rock which lies Toledo, seven eminences or uneven mounds covered
with buildings, squares and streets. The result is that the city looks like a great strength,
but its appearance can be covered with the hearing in its entirety, anywhere. Toledo dominates
all contours, but no point dominates Toledo.

To get there, then, to the city by either side is essential, or go through one of the Alcántara
bridge and San Martin, or penetrate the door hinges, overlooking
the isthmus Northwest.

Anyway, it is necessary to scale or climb the mountain. And in the city itself, as the seven
hills are very uneven terrain, is forced up or down, by any street to be taken in a sort of vicious
circle that makes the most bizarre Toledo population. No idea can be full, without knowing
it, like a maze. The man most expert that of the most prodigious memory locations, were lost in Toledo,
without the aid of a guide, to turn the second corner of an alley.

Homes uneven and rough and ancient building boxed all the streets, giving a dark and sinister
aspect, as if they walked the rough and irregular paths of a mountain.

Abroad, returning every turn, it is the illusion that expect a Moorish helmet in one of the
thousands of crossings that are complicated and linked into the more tangled Grasp. Wherever
paved atrocious irregular embankments, steep slopes, angles and curves indescribable challenging
the most able mathematician by the absence of specific figures. The thousand lanes cross, forked,
rounded, squared, confused, surrounding themselves, they stop suddenly end in corners, or extend
into the most extravagant passages, tracing a network indescribable. When you create a 500 meters
away have a point, according to what has gone, is in the opposite direction, twenty feet away,
completely disoriented. That city, essentially Moorish detail of this kind, seems to have been combined
for ambushes, guerrilla fighting and defenses unexpected and awesome.

The origin of Toledo has no history, because its foundation is attributed to different races, and
do not know the precise time of their appearance. The Romans found very respectable and, give
importance and made capital of the province Carpetana.

Conquered by the Goths in the sixth century the capital of their court and their domains.
Dominated the country in the century VIII by the Saracens, was also the seat of the viceroys
Moors, and then the capital the powerful kingdom of Toledo. Finally, recovered in the eleventh
century by the Castilian king Don Alfonso VI, was still the capital of the Spanish monarchs,
until the sixteenth century moved Philip II his court to Madrid. From then began to decline
Toledo, isolated and without industry despite their status as the metropolis of the Catholic
Church in Spain.

* * * * *

       

No, but having spent three days in Toledo, which are sufficient for a traveler who is not artist,
I could barely pick up fast printing. Toledo is interesting for its social type and their
merit monumental, but the first I cared more than the second, more especially as suffer from
complete ignorance in architecture, painting and sculpture. As I can hardly make judgments,
failing to copy what others (art ugly I'm less versed even in fine arts), and will indicate only
the emotions felt.

Toledo lacks any industry. It's a dead city, or at least paralyzed. The there only draws attention
to the economic is the famous weapons factory, situated at the right bank of the Tagus, to
the west of the isthmus that I have described. I found it impossible to visit, because in those
days it was closed because of Easter, which the Spanish people and its analogs celebrated
with idleness. HOWEVER I knew that the weapons were Toledo the very same conditions as those
of ancient times. Centuries have passed over without The makers have been given by notified
today as manufacturing procedures are the same as now four years, unless the products have improved
significantly. Spain crushed the old steel with the same hammer. Modern civilization has not reached
until the railway station at the foot of Toledo. From up there .... Careful touch the cobwebs!

In Toledo's monumental everything is interesting and curious all have a special type not found in
any other Spanish city with the same energy, even in Valencia, Sevilla, Cordoba and Granada.
Wherever they are alternating the Gothic and Moorish and some of the Renaissance, such promiscuity
resulting from the most striking contrasts .-- Me dwell on the most remarkable monuments nomas,
which are the jewels of the city where he ran Quevedo's childhood and the remains of the hanged
favorite Don Alvaro de Luna, the poet Mariana Moreto and historian.

The cathedral is, without doubt, one of the most magnificent Catholic churches in Europe. Everything
is there huge, stern and grim, as the most typical Gothic cathedrals. If the external forms
and almost the whole of the building belong to the magnificent architecture, there are many
details However, as a famous Mozarabic chapel, under the Moorish style, having Cathedral been
subject to successive cambiamientos. Its splendid floor tiles blue and white marble, its five ships
daring held by eighty-four columns colossal twenty-three chapels curds and rich gold ornaments,
three large rosettes and seven hundred forty-seven circular or ogival windows covered with exquisite
glass colorfully painted to fire a thousand ornaments of columns and arches seventy-two of the
ships, superior lightness, the magnificence of the choir stalls, whose low reliefs are admirable,
the splendor of the treasures or jewels belonging to the temple, the deep echoes of the organs,
repeated in a thousand breasts of stone, the dark solemn enclosure, the paint beautiful paintings
that adorn the dark walls, and tingling the crowd of pious and curious, circulating as atoms
under the great mass: all that makes the Cathedral of Toledo, Maundy Thursday, an astounding
monument, places, captivates and makes mute ....

There he understands
the power of faith, which not only inspire the artists of the Middle
Ages but give them to their villages, workers Herculean strength to
lift those mountains carved common granite and stone, studded charms
that reveal all the tenacity patient a belief and the vagaries of
superstition.

There is also the force comprises propaganda that Catholicism has had in the past, through the powerful
fascination exerted on the masses by the majesty of the temples and the sovereign pomp of the cult
[2].

I compared the immense wealth locked in the "Treasury" of the cathedral, with the deep misery
of the lower classes of Toledo, a city that grows in isolation, without
industry, trade, agriculture and important, and sadly told me: "What
good would the Virgin of the Cathedral if, in imitation of Isabel
the Catholic, not to discover a world but to resurrect Toledo devote
their valuable jewelry great for a railroad to communicate to the
imperial ruin with all peoples of the magnificent Tagus Valley!

"In every cathedral in Spain, excluding values ??more than the estate, can go a railroad, but there
is no risk of anything coming out, without thereby missing entries.

Fourteen without suppressed convents of friars, nuns and twenty, Toledo has also twenty churches
of the cathedral parish, nine public and six Mozarabic chapel. Thus, So people do not reach for
the churches. After the cathedral, the most notable as monuments are: San Juan-de-los-Reyes,
Christ-of-the-light, Transit and Santa María la white, - the last two ancient synagogues. It is
interesting to note that Toledo had during the domination Moorish
six churches, called Mozarabic, where Christians worship publicly
maintained them, with the express consent of the Moros.

It seems that those barbarous infidels were friends of the wickedness of modern philosophy called
for religious tolerance. The Inquisition Spanish later paid them to the Moors that tolerance
in very good money ....

The kings of Spain had the pious custom of celebrating military triumphs erection of churches,
now they were the Saracens, now in the Portuguese or other enemies. In Toro victory obtained against
Portugal, owes its existence to the beautiful church San Juan-de-los-Reyes, a florid Gothic
delicious, commissioned in 1476 by Fernando and Isabella, as it should be the triumph of Don
Alfonso VI, the conqueror of Toledo in the late XI, the importance
of curious chapel called Christ-of-the-light, where they performed
the first mass after the Saracens defeated there.

Call attention in foreign Kings Church a multitude of shackles, chains and other instruments in prison,
slopes of the walls to remember the martyrs of Spain, for all those irons are Granada were applied
to prisoners who were held by the Moors.

If the church, a nave, forming a Latin cross, is very elegant and beautiful ornaments, the faculty
is no less interesting, in spite of its debris, from a terrible fire in 1809. Curiously a huge
piece of excellent mosaic that lies almost abandoned in the vestibule. In the upper floor
was struck by a museum painting paintings, begun in 1840, made than 730 tables and set exactly
in the cell of the famous Cardinal Jiménez de Cisneros, first novice of the convent founded
there.

Christ-of-the-light is a curious miniature church, whose merit lies not only in the origin and seniority
but also on their unique proportions. Measures that toy mosque baptized about 18 feet long on 14
or 15 wide, with proportionate height, and is Byzantine-Arab style, with trends in some detail
the transition from first to funny second period of Saracen art. Six little ships crossed in
opposite directions threes, and supported by four granite columns,
very rough, which lie horseshoe-shaped arches, constitute the roof,
which is divided into nine domes almost microscopic all different,
but similar in style.

If you could start and transporting their foundations that toy of Moorish architecture, could be
in the best museum of antiquities like a jewel of inestimable value.

The church now called Santa Maria la Blanca, abandoned and deserted, was an elegant synagogue
built towards the end of XI century by the Jews of Toledo, corresponding to the time of transition
or second period of the Moorish style, and has interior decorations and forms a delicious
treat. The roof is a beautiful cedar paneling, and the whole body is divided into five naves; the total
being a rectangle that measures about 80 feet long and about 62 wide and 50 elevation in the
center. 32 columns holding the octagonal roof, stucco, four equal rows, and their capitals rise 28
horseshoe arches with beautiful arabesques which support orders other
precious columns, paired immediately supporting the ceilings.

These buildings, which were entirely unknown to me (if not in photo) my eyes were endless charm,
and made me conjure up a thousand memories of the history of Oriental peoples, defended in the years
of my youth. Under the same floor there deep underground that keep the remains of many Israelis.
How not to think me on the vicissitudes of humanity to abandon this ancient sanctuary of a
race that persecuted for eighteen centuries by all peoples in vast and heinous gang has regenerate
the world in the nineteenth century, with the power of their enormous capital and industrial
activity and commercial town on the European banks, railways, warehouses and factories! The
Israelites have retaliated by chasing people, giving them the progress and prosperity and organizing
credit ....

No less curious, though very different proportions, is the other synagogue, now called Church
Traffic built in the middle of the fourteenth century. Don Pedro the Cruel was not much, according
to seems, with the rich Jews, and allowed his famous and favorite treasurer, Samuel Levi, erection
of this beautiful sanctuary of the Israelite religion. His only holds a beautiful ship coffered
ceiling, the walls are a rich stucco, adorned with beautiful mosaic tiles, and carved with the most
gorgeous arabesques of the third period of Moorish architecture, completely Andalusia. Synagogue
that resembles many of its details to a splendid hall the Alhambra or the Alcazar of Seville.

Enough of churches for the patient reader. About Don Pedro the Cruel, is notable for its historical
interest and its grim proportions the house or palace that dwell in Toledo Wild crowned. It
is a report building and heavy, which gives the idea of ??dungeons and causes certain thrill
to the traveler who knows something the old stories of old Spain. Apart from the rubble of the
Alcázar admirable, are interesting in Toledo some of their doors monuments, which give access
to the city roads in shell, supported by great embankments, the magnificent bridge of Alcantara, a single
arc and all of granite and school military was building façade convent and chapel, cloisters
and staircase can admire the traveler a multitude of interesting
art objects.
