 In the months following death
of the mother, Raymond, taking heart of grace with the idea to protect your sister, had been
more resolute and manly. In time he recovered temperament their rights, fell back into their
hobbies childish, as women's impressionability, while she grew up discovering a sound temperament,
balanced and straight.

It did not take much work to bring Clementina, fascinate all the young naturalist. Sometimes
going to your hotel boys, others she was going home from the kids or taking them get to the
theater or walk, they were most of the day. Pepe Castro, the first Raimundo night found in
the room Osorio understood perfectly what was happening, and filled
with despair.

- At this very great ... now gives babies - muttered,
grinding his teeth -.

All conclude losses for these extravagances.

He thought the young and cause head. He soon persuaded that this step would be to disaster. What
would it gain? Clementina absolutely nothing because you detest. The scandal would reveal their
defeat, the more shameful as the winner a little boy was absolutely unknown. Determin칩se therefore
wise not to give his arm to turn to the world and away from his beloved temporarily, allowing
her to gratify whim. Maybe later, tired of tease with that lamb, the lamb again the fold.

Raymond was not supposed child as Castro, as counted twenty-three
years old, but had a child and delicate figure did not let him appear
more than eighteen.

Your health was hesitant and brittle. He suffered frequent attacks, particularly since the death
of his mother, they sometimes lose sight, other speech, with another variety of strange phenomena
which fortunately lasted a short time. You saw seized with deep melancholy, crisis violent ending
for a hearty and prolonged crying in hysterical women horn. The view of the chandeliers spasms
caused him, the knife of a doctor shuddered. Apprehension of insanity made him suffer horribly
sometimes, other was the fear of suicide against their will. Never had weapons at hand, and
the fear of throwing from the balcony was to close the night locked in his room, delivering the
key to his sister, the only witness and confidante of these ravings. His temperament and effeminate
education she had were the cause of them. Watched over, however, carefully as all Sufferers, who
are more than those who think, tried with great effort to refrain comprising a fool that falls
on men so constituted.

Anyone will be represented well what would happen to this boy when a woman so beautiful so flirty
and as experienced as Clementina was resolved to make his conquest.

First her extreme shyness kept him from realizing the conduct of the lady. I thought that those
greetings affectionate, those smiles were nothing more than the expression of a sudden sympathy
with loss had excited her. Yet, when he befriended them and multiplied signals their inclination,
and her sister gave the alarm, he could not imagine that there could be between them other than a
close friendship more or less protective and motherly by of it, delivered and fervent for him.
However, the elixir of love that was dropwise Clementina dropping on his lips, came at last to
the heart. When I least expected it found love, dude. But as they made this discovery he was
seized with shame immense, and thought she would never have the courage to propose. On the one
hand the behavior of his idol with him, the constant testimony of sympathy lavished on him,
lend themselves to forge illusions. But it seemed so strange and unlikely that a shy, inexperienced,
devoid of attractive could obtain favors worldly lady so rich and so beautiful that instantly
abandoned or gently rocking them knowing that they were pure fantasy. In addition, no could get rid
of the pang from time to time in his mind. Lady resembled her mother, no doubt. For this alone had noticed
her, and had been his street tracker some time. Was not a real desecration, an abomination
the image of his mother inspire carnal desires?

Well, despite these regrets, his invincible shyness and the claims of reason Rayford was increasingly
captivated by this woman. Truth got Clementina play all weapons at its disposal, which were
not few or even moldy.

As more shyness of his youth growing up in her adoring daring and aplomb. In love this happens almost
always, but here, given the special circumstances of both, acquired greater importance. Shyness
it became a disease, a strange thing, of which was perfectly ridiculous no account could be overcome
by any means. On the contrary, the more efforts made to acquire poise and disengage front of
her best showing the emotion that was upon him. At first he spoke with some serenity, authorizing
a little joke or witty; then this serenity was lost, the jokes stopped. No one could approach it
without disturbed, could not shake hands without a slight tremor. If the lady staring at him,
her cheeks lit.

Clementina could not help but smile at the innocent dawn of love. It was enjoying full curious,
happy feeling even beautiful enough to inspire a child as rendered passion. Sometimes wickedly amused
at atortolarle in putting red, showing lively and outspoken as a
cool, others plate appeared to humor melancholy glancing shy as a
schoolgirl: Others, finally, treated him with tender familiarity,
hearing about his life, his actions and thoughts, as a loving mother
or sister.

So it was when Raymond regained a little freedom and daring look at the goddess face face. Clementina
often teased him for his scientific hobbies, went into his office and left scattered on the
table or the floor cartons of butterflies. This, if produce execute someone else in the house
a disaster, did laugh at the young naturalist.

Began to whisper among the close of the lady something about these new and extravagant their love,
advancing, of course, much more than they actually were. One night food and triplet Pepa Frias
said three or four elegant wild were around arguing his case:

- Deseng치침ense you. Clementina ends up falling for a Newfoundland dog or a journalist.

When Raymond came in the room with his head of blond cherub and melancholy, with their appearance
humble and embarrassed, all eyes rested on him with curiosity. There were smiles murmurs one-liners
and stupid. Will be discussed.

In general, men over However, we judged ridiculous behavior Osorio's
wife, but some ladies looked sympathy to the young man, very nice
your air were naive, and understood the whim Clementina.

There were among them who tried to seduce him.

Was already considered our young mistress Clementina officer when he still had not his lips touched
the tip of your fingers or dreamed it. However, love was doing such progress in his chest that
he feared one of these days fall on his knees before her as leading men of comedy. He suffered
horribly at the slightest sign of contempt, and enjoyed as an angel
when the lady expressed her affection anyway.

Clementina was in no hurry to give lucky lover, but she was determined to do so. He liked
to prolong this situation, noting with secret pleasure the progress of the passion and events offered
in the young. Disgusted ravings of courtiers, was attractive to be adored live that way frenetic
and mute, to playing the role of a goddess. A glance from her was pale or blush that child, a word
he was glad or sad to despair.

Raymond went to the Royal every night that it was his turn to Clementina. Up to the stage to
hello, and sometimes, as required by her, there was one or two acts. In these Sometimes the
lady used to retire to the anteroom and chat with him closely in the shade discrete curtains.
When he got tired, or the scene singing a piece of hard, kept silence
the young man turned his back and listened for a while.

Raymond, keeping the ears the echo of your voice and your heart the fire in his eyes, was also
quiet, attentive, indeed, music that sounded in his soul, that which came from the stage. Insurance
not be observed, contained alabaster religious attention back to his idol, Tollan the finest and
gold around his neck, approached the head under the pretext of better hearing and inhaling
the perfume that it followed her, closing her eyes and getting drunk during briefly. One night,
both hit the face at the head of the lady, oh wonder! is threw his lips brushing her hair braided
hairstyles folded down. After he did was terribly frightened and peered eagerly if he had felt
Clementina. The lady continued unmoved, ecstatic listening to music. However, his clear and
beautiful eyes slipped a slight smile that the young man could not anticipate. Encouraged with
this success, always she brought her hair so far dissimulation and after long preparations
and hesitations dared pose the lips on it. That feeling was so vivid, so rich, that kept many
days in the mouth and made him happy. But one night, or because the lady was angry, or because
he enjoyed in mortify a little detachment was treated fairly while was in the box, left him
abandoned as she chatted pleasantly Pascuala with one of his young and aristocratic friends. Poor
Raymond was struck with such contempt a horrible way. Not even had the strength to say goodbye.
He was pale, haggard. A painful wrinkle his brow furrowed. Clementina caught him occasionally glances.
When the young nobleman he rose to go, also wanted to do the same. The lady held by the hand.

-
No, stay a moment, Alc치zar. We need to talk.

And he retired as usual to anteroom and began chatting with the friendliness and openness always.

The
boy took a breath. But when she turned her back to hear the opera, was so upset and confused
that not even dare to kiss your hair, but the hairstyle was low and better opportunity than
ever.

After a while, Clementina turned suddenly and said quietly:

- Why
does not kiss you today hair like other nights?

The excitement was immense, overwhelming.

The blood rushed to the heart and was all white a cadaver. Then he mounted to the face and began
as a poppy.

- Yo! ... The hair! - Faltered miserably.

And he had to cling tightly to the chair to avoid falling.

- Do not be frightened, man! - Said she posed her hand lovingly over
his -.

When I have consented is proof that I disliked.

But seeing as he looked with wild eyes, as if he did not understand,
he said nonchalantly and laughing

- Does not it figure that I know
he loves me a little?

- Oh! - Said the young man with a cry compressed.

-
Yes, I know for some time - continued to decline over the voice and
mouth close to his ear -.

But you may not know a thing, and I also love you ....

And a quick glance out to make sure that there were watching, took
their hands, and told his breath-fired cheeks:

- Yes, I love you
I love you more than you can imagine.

Come tomorrow at three in the house.

Clementina did not have the impressiveness of his adoring female.

The violent emotion I had just experienced together with the joy that these words evoked in her
chest was disrupted thereby, they began to mourn as a child.

She then pushed into a corner and rose strongly, with its graceful
figure covering the space left open the curtain.

His face shone with happiness sorcerer. If a painter had the fortune to surprise the time
and the gift of attaching it to the canvas, could represent, as one until today, Danae receiving the
well-known in his prison shower of gold.

Were some tender love and poetic, candid and voluptuous at the same time those of the beautiful
lady and the young naturalist. For she was a sweet resurrection of the impressions of adolescence
matured suddenly transformed into happy reality.

Until then he had delusions have resembled each other so much that from the beginning carried
inside a germ boredom. Always remained at the bottom of the heart a feeling of defiance against relationships
that are not brought him any strong feelings, even new pleasures. The now offered an originality
that loved it. Her lover was a child who is almost twice age. He had begun to worship the resemblance
that was with her mother. That respect subsidiaries and love became a passion and desire to
murmur. All this was funny, original; aesthetic had a background in any of his previous love
had found. In addition, no belonged to the race of dandies and fops with those encountered at
all hours in frequented sites, a pattern cut by beings without any spontaneity, with same defects,
the same vanity and even the jokes. Raimundo away from them, not only for his modest and retiring,
not only for his artwork and talent, but also particularly, for his character. What soul of
that adorable boy! What innocence what sensibility, what delicacy and how hard to love at the
same time! Accustomed to Pepes monotony of Castro, each new psychological phase, each shaking
with excitement, each dismay or joy or sorrow that he warned in his love on you young man produced
a pleasant surprise. Scrutinizing its spirit, got into it with eager curiosity and both with passionate
love. He confessed, made him a hundred times to narrate and describe their feelings, their
memories, their purposes and hopes. Sometimes I doubt that strange rushing love.

- But you're really in love? Do not think I'm an old? ... "I can be your mother?

Raimundo always answered with a passionate caress with a wet look that read the infinite passion.

From day one, Clementina alone had familiarly accustomed to these
transitions secret lives of women and gallant, now favored the age
difference.

Raimundo could not get used to give it the you.

Made efforts to do so, but maybe again to you and treating the conversation continued thus until
the lady got angry and scolded him harshly.

"No, even though I refused, he regarded it as an old woman. In everything was casting to see.
If continued in this way lose him confidence. "However, Clementina I was wrong on this point.
Did not have enough insight and sensitivity to understand Raimundo that love was, as in all beings
truly sensitive, ecstatic worship rather than desire, voluntary slavery, an estrangement from his
own life to live better the queen of his heart. We must take care, moreover, that had not previously
experienced ever such a feeling. From society for women and no miss him, maybe because in his house
was big and exquisite as they can give, tender affection, vigilant, the sweetness of the word,
devotion at all times: dedicated in all study and its magnificent collection of butterflies, the
meeting was for him to Clementina the revelation of that enchanted world of poetry, that almost
everyone appears earlier. That first breath of Venus to leave the sea foam that repeated the entire universe
rang then in his soul and rocked gently. His soul, he was silent and sad as Nature before the
goddess of beauty sigh. Very few men reach a similar said: have the first woman you love, arrive
on time to pick the fruit flavored love. For Raymond, this inclination shy adolescent yearning
and melancholy full of anxieties, merged with the love of manhood, appetizing and sensual.