 

Carlitos had ended the career of civil engineer and was about to embark on science. Was consistently
the number one in his class, and had already written some articles on mineralogy in a scientific
journal. Continued to be the wisest of the family, everyone's liking. Vincent had spent some
years in England, studying was not known what, probably the uses and customs of Britain, to which
was felt from a principle so inclined, that all his life dressed, ate, slept and coughed up the
English. Also brought there, among countless other hobbies, the antiques, which was very please
his father, and later contributed not a little respectability to the splendor and always growing
family. Bought in England a considerable number of junk, plates, carpets, and decorated the house
with them as well, with the permission of his father, every summer was a walk around the provinces
and back provided plenty of antiques. Thus the house was soon to look like an archaeological
museum: it was increasingly bleak and sadder. Vincent also managed to exercise a powerful
influence on her, particularly when it came to order and the label: considerábanle servants as
their manager, and turned their eyes toward him when he went to be anything but routine for
all day. Doña Martina every moment he asked: - Vicente, where we put Romillo? Vicente, should
temper the Bordeaux? Where we have brought the statue today? At what time London is served
in that spirit we have received? - Same D. Bernardo, despite his unchallenged infallibility,
not once disdained to consult on matters of ceremony, v. gr.: If had to visit D. John Doe or simply
leave a card, whether to accept the invitation to eat D. Richard Roe, etc.., Etc. Valle also lived
in the house and had two children and three and two years respectively, was admirably adapted
to that mode of being family, who seemed born and raised with them, the same neatness in dress,
the same affected courtesy, the same extreme care not to say or do anything special, the same
seriousness and emphasis to convey the most trivial things. Even in this they took advantage:
the old abolitionist could not ask a friend or when I thought of the time, no separate call to
a mystery device: those who saw him, always felt that was trying some very serious and very rugged.
In spite of this adjustment had not lost any significance within or outside the house, on the
contrary, the marriage had given large, and had contributed not a little to come out and elected
that he enjoyed respect and universal consideration. Moreover, in the home had its appointed
place, its sphere action, and in this way there could be shocks and rivalries: it was the public
man, the statesman, as Charlie was the wise, Vicente, MC, Henry, the skull and D. Bernardo, respectable
and respected the man who spread its protective shadow over all. Eulalia remained the same grave
and weary person than when we had the honor of know, a little more serious and a little dry.
The lower lip was hanging with expression even more marked contempt for all earthly things.
This general contempt saved, however, her husband, her father and brothers, except Henry, and all
applications and customs of good society, which was, as your father, faithful guardian. The same
Dona Martina, despite his great heart and spontaneity, and that temperament frank and hearty,
that God would give, had no choice but to succumb and bow to the iron label of the family, becoming
more serious, more restrained, and thereby losing much of the attraction that his character
had for his nephew Miguel.

When he entered Henry's room, found him shaving in a mirror, so worried and attentive to his
task, he does not see or hear the footsteps.

- Hello, Henriot, how goes?

Head back Enrique scared.

- Oh, are you, Mickey?

Sit down, man, I'm glad to see you here.

Miguel, instead of obeying, he started walking around the room, watching with smiling face As
it were. It was full of attributes taurómacos: on the door a stuffed head bull; on the sides a luxurious
ribbons with the colors already fallen by the time, for the walls Some cards, representing the
different fates of bullfighting, a sword and a crutch forming trophy.

Miguel stopped at a couple of flags symmetrically placed under the
sword and crutch.

- The last time I had not been here these flags.

-
Has given me the no more than eight days, kettle ... you know ...
Pot - said, returning the face that was full of pride and satisfaction.

-
Yes, yes ... I know ... Kettle ... any rough, we ...

Henry was suddenly
serious and sad.

- Man, Marmite is a friend ... Moreover, today there
is none like him put any flags Plaza of Spain ... Did you see him
on Sunday?

- It was not the bulls.

- Well, boy I tell you in my
life I've been hanging to dodge that way ... As if had not moved,
boy ... same!

The square fell apart ... It was something to eat it! ... In the fifth bull put others to relaunch
when least expected, which stunned the whole world ... On the same
rubble of two ... Not painted, kid ... The square fell apart ...

-
But not on the floor now?

- How?

- Yeah, man, just tell me that
collapsed in the first pair.

- Well, well!

... guasita you always.

And turning continued shaving.

- Well, then long - Miguel said, after giving a few more laps around
the room - that missed some flags here.

I missed that having so much bull, no there was at least a couple.

- Would you believe, boy - "said Harry, letting trick as many times by the serious tone that
his words conveyed Miguel - which I had not happened?

... When the kettle me sent, I had a real great joy ...

- Yes, yes,
I understand that will have been one of the purest joys of your life.

Henry looked back at him seriously and piqued, and continued shaving.

Her face was no longer entirely buzzard a dog as a child, had improved
a little, not too much improvement mainly was who was cleaner, without
runny nose or the cheeks repegones; unruly hair that had managed,
by dint of creams and cosmetics, Domenico, and he wore flattened on
the temples as pimps.

He wore the beard, but at the time of being modified, leaving a very cucas chopper pins. So I had
finished this operation, Miguel turned to a little embarrassed, but as he told him he was
very well and had gained a lot with that change, then put a good
mood, warmly embraced his cousin gave him a handful of Cuban cigars,
and began to talk about happy things.

- Alas, Miguelillo, you have
no liking for bulls! - He said abruptly cutting the thread of conversation
and staring at him with compassionate eyes .-- If you only knew how
good times passed!

- If you delete the fate of spades would be happy
- Miguel said with a desire to please his cousin, releasing a puff
of smoke.

- Do not say that, Michael, by God!

Do not you know that there can be stakeless bulls?

- What then?

- Why would overalls to death every day and would be a right on the plaza.

- They had to defend the horses, at least, who does not walk the casings rolling on the floor.

-
This is another mistake! - Said Henry, who was extremely interesting discussion .-- The Horses
can not defend, because if the bull should find where prime and always throw it defeat them
in the air, I would conclude by flee, of course, and could not deal in other lots. The fans that
you are not always the same arguments empleáis, horses! ... Guts! ... If we look at the fight,
not in these trifles repararíais ... but clear is! do not know what is happening, you introduce
not study the bull, you are bored, and going to look beyond the other end of the plaza to see
if a horse has left the tripe ... And last result, what?

It seems that you have not ever seen the guts of an animal! Do not you eat every day in the
cooked sausage?

Miguel, who was smoking quietly in a chair without regard to what his cousin said, he asked
in distracted tone:

- But there were any means to replace that sort of spades?

- None!
- Enrique shouted .-- Absolutely none!

- Well, man, well, not angry.

-
Do you imagine that the bulls are a thing of yesterday morning?

... All that relates to the bulls is well thought ... Very calculated!

... Those who do not understand a word, see the bull run behind the
fighters, and nothing more, but those who have studied something,
you know the reason for all movements that are running on the square
...

- Well then - said Miguel serious and slowly releasing another
puff of smoke - I announce that when Minister of the Interior, have
the honor to abolish bullfights.

Enrique looked grim.

- Already deliver any Minister of the Interior to remove the bulls!

- Where is your father now? - Miguel said, rising.

The appearance of Henry suddenly reacquired his usual expression of
kindness and innocence.

- I think it has not left this morning.

Want to see?

- Yes, I have to talk to him.

- Here we go.

And putting a jacket hastily, without having yet got the vest, led his cousin by brokers to
around one quarter of his father. They hesitated a little, it followed professing the same
respect that room as a child.

- Raymond - he said, watching a passing servant, - enters the room
and ask Dad if you can receive the Master Miguel, who wishes to speak.

The servant took a while to come out with an affirmative answer.

Miguel went in alone.

Bernardo was the guy sitting in his armchair, reading the newspaper
with the same expression of hostility that had always welcomed all
ideas expressed in writing.

He had aged enough: the bald, already long, it covered a purple velvet
cap, thinner and more pale gray mustache had been reduced, thanks
to the slow but continuous work the knife, for both of sides, a speck
under the nose.

- Good morning, man, how is V.?

- Hey, Michael:
Well, how about you? - Responded D. Bernardo without looking away
from the newspaper.

- In health, good.

- Are you going resigning?
- Asked, always with eyes on the newspaper and in a tone Lightweight
Miguel strongly wounded.

- No, sir - he answered a bit choppy.

D. Bernardo deigned to look up to him expressing surprise turned her down and said quietly and cavernous:

-
I do not forward anything to torment you, you have to submit to the
will of God.

- I submit to force.

Submit quietly resign and do not feel with current misfortunes.

- I do not suppose you tell me that I have not been deeply your father.

- I believe that V. I felt much, because it was a model of fathers, brothers and knights.

- Yes, and I advise you to always imitate.

- I do what I can, for the time you cried a lot, like he'd cry.

-
No judge that tears should be condemned at all, but I seem more characteristic
of women than men.

I advise you strength to endure this terrible ordeal.

After since the early days, it is absurd to continue given the pain,
and realize exactly accurate their situation and think about the future.

-
To that came precisely, to deal with V. the question of interest.

Almost all conversations between uncle and nephew for some time, took
this tone one if it is not spicy.

Miguel was wayward, and every day was forming an idea of ??the poorest Uncle Bernard's intellectual
ability.

This, if not despised his nephew in the background, hated his character
and he was afraid.

Both were perfectly convinced of this antipathy and sought to demonstrate more or less openly.
The conversation on interest filed was not long, from the first moment
he realized that his uncle Miguel did not want to take over of the
conservatorship, and largely satisfied, but hiding as best he could,
provided it the way to escape it.

- Yeah, man, yes, I fully understand
that the serious occupations V. has in his public life private and
will not be allowed to engage in business under my attention that
V. I would like ... I'm so sorry ... but better from the outset let's
be clear ...

- For my part I am willing to abide by all the will
of the late, well you know ... But I fear that in spite of sacrificing
other chores ...

- Nothing, never mind that.

As stated in the will, in the absence of V., Uncle Manolo, he is
responsible, as it is vacated.

D. Bernard smiled wryly at the name of his brother.

- Yes, he can handle it, the chores do not kill.

With the solution given to the matter, both had put in a good mood,
the conversation was henceforth more expansive and affable.

D. Bernardo invited his nephew to lunch, and he accepted without
entreating him.

When they got to the dining room the family was already assembled. As usual, everyone waited standing
at the head of it, who, after serious health and politely, sat down and invited them to sit
with a gesture so imposing and majestic, that Michael could not help smiling. No but he smiled, others,
including Valle, who was already a political figure, accepted that strict etiquette, convinced
that practicing, walking away from the masses and gained in prestige and respectability. Miguel,
exaggerating the disdain he felt for such a farce, said to yes :--«¡
But, sir, this is a family farce!

"At lunch they talked about various and domestic political issues, but always with the utmost order,
without any pretext take their word to each other, after all expressing their opinion, D. Bernardo
used summarize and give his own, and failing that, the Valley was
the second person in the house.

Almost always fit all in the way of seeing things where it was, it showed such deference each
other to contradict himself, which concluded by being compliant.

Raise your voice to discussion is considered there as the most complete manifestation of bad taste,
only in taverns was played loudly.

Sometimes there were also traits of irony, jokes, Carlitos and Valle
authorized certain, then everyone smiled and even laughed benevolence
soft and discreetly, never harsh or loud laughter.

In almost all matters in table dealing, clearly manifestábase disdain
most of the people and things inspired that privileged family, and
the intimate conviction that all professed to its unquestionable superiority.

This superiority was the dogma of the house.

Enrique rarely took part in the conversation, did not consider the
height of their brothers, knew and feared his genius sulfuric tune.

Since I sat at the table, transformation that had to operate on his face had caught the attention
of everyone, even of his father, who did not deign to repair but very few things: Tell them aimed
at lunch four or five long, scrutinizing gaze, and he, not bear, down the light and became the
distracted, he was ashamed, and would have given anything to be new hairs had been removed. No one
ventured, however, to talk to them. When lunch ended we proceeded to make coffee on the same table,
a task that of old was happy Rivera's family, and which gave extremely important. In this occasion,
was far greater importance because it was testing a new razor Carlitos had ordered to Paris.
All were prepared with anxiety to see operating the unit. Carlitos had been responsible for arming,
unfortunately, despite his talent recognized mechanical had failed to fit some pieces in their
proper place, the coffee came out so jumbled and bad, it was impossible to get through. Then
came the family of a movement Rivera painful surprise, but no one dared to direct charge to the cause
of misfortune, only through bush and circumlocution, Valle said that coffee could be clearer,
what which did not know whether it should be attributed to the quality of the coffee, the device failure
or a slight imperfection in the way of assembly. D. Bernardo coughed two or three times, which
indicated that he would always say something, and was the defensive signal for everyone shut
up. In fact, silent.

- To know what is the cause of what has happened, and if Arthur has hit some of several indications
that just made precise, first of all, to wash the apparatus, Disarmament
will be reassembled and carefully .... Let's see, Raimundo, take that
machine to wash well, and after drying, you bring.

While Raymond was there, barely spoke at the table, as if they were all under the weight of
some serious concern: expected his return with ill-concealed impatience. When he arrived and
left again set on the table, eager eyes turned toward the head of the family, who, after coughing
two or three times, he said solemnly, addressing his son Jack:

- Carlitos, kindly disassembling, so you know, if possible, where lies the fault.

Charlie was quick to take the machine, and hand a little trembling, began to disassemble, under
the fixed gaze of his family. As I was pulling the pieces scattered dejábalas bulk on the table.

- High there! - Said D. Bernardo extending his hand .-- The parts they can not should be left
so confused, exposing us to that after we do not know what they are. Coloquémoslas orderly, right
and left, as it exits, and no later difficulties.

Charlie started to reach the parts to his father, and he put them in different spots of the table,
not without hesitation by some time and think through the pros and cons of each site.

- The glass lid will post here with the Eulalia, eh?

... The container I will more than before Vincent, how are you? ... Well, it gets placed ...
remember well ... is placed in front of Vincent ... The pin here on my right ... do not forget
... The container milk, where will place the milk container? ... Aguárdate a minute, man ... we
put it, if not it bad, here in front of Arturo ... remember well,
in front of Arturo ...

Once disarmed the device, Carlos began to
fit new pieces with others, security and disengage, as you know well
of the ground.

His father, however, who always disliked the rush, stopped him immediately.

- Stop right there, Carlos, that is not solving the difficulty ... You have to take things more
calmly; if not, get the same result. Before placing any piece, is necessary to ascertain if the above
is in place, that is, if fits perfectly with the other ... Nothing
to rush ... What drives the rush?

... Do not we have some spare time? ... Walk with caution ... Is not that ...?

D. Bernard looked around for approval, that all was granted without hesitation. Then he coughed
two or three times, in testimony to be satisfied.

Despite the caution and space that Charlie was taken to build the machine, and despite bass and
sound advice that his father was giving, and that he was respectfully, when it again made the coffee,
came as bad as last time. It was necessary to appeal the old typewriter. The family took the coffee
thoughtful and silent.

Miguel began to play his nieces, girls Eulalia. D. Bernardo was lifted at the end of the table,
lighting a cigar. Although the continent was cold and severe, as
usual, guessed that was in good humor: the coffee business had excited
a little bile.

Before leaving turned to Henry, who was still sitting, and said sternly:

- Why did you let those silly pins torero?

- I interfered with the beard - humbly replied the lieutenant, a little flushed.

- And why the beard out the way, was there reason to the face like a pimp or a spark? ... Do
not you know you are the son of a respectable family, and that you
imitate people decent, just inside the outside?

... See if you immediately remove these decorations ... I do not want cool and biting at my house!
... Time makes you disgusting me with your rude inclinations ... I know you have as friends a few
bullfighters or street urchins, forgetting what you owe to your family and what you owe to yourself
... you have no other pleasures lock and set aside to see the bulls ... It hurts me deeply to have
a son so foolish ... Where did you get these hobbies?

... Do not see your brothers, whom no one had to say never a word? ...

He made a long pause here the angry Lord of Rivera, and then said in a peremptory tone, leaving
dining:

- Do not you see those pins again!

Henry received the rebuke of lousy mood, with his elbows on the table and head tucked in his
hands in protest. When his father turned his back and was a some way off, suddenly left that
position, and shaking his fists in front of him frantically, said
a low voice so that you do not hear:

- In my face I'm in charge!

All were silent, even Dona Martina, to the anger of Lieutenant. Only Eulalia dared to say solemnly:

-
That, Harry, is very wrong: dad is right ...

Could not finish: his brother jumped on him become basilisk.

- You missed me you do not metieses me the scoop! Who asks you advice, or what it gives me what
you find bad or good? ... That is, Mom is quiet, and that weak fool, fool! always has to put
in my stuff! ... I do what I think, you know ... I leave the pins or I take them off, you know
... And you shut up, you know ...

No one protested, the same valley,
which was the one corresponding to a corrective to those words swallowed
them, the lieutenant could keep shouting as he wanted.

- You know
- Miguel told when they were alone in the room - which is not exactly
sweetness what characterizes you when you have to go to your sister?

Henry shrugged his shoulders in contempt.

X

The hotel of Puerto Rico, where Uncle Manolo was staying, was not,
in fact, rather than a median guesthouse.

Nothing that characterizes the hotel was in him, no movement servants, and entry and exit for
passengers and luggage, no noise of any kind.
