 The gathering of the faithful was higher than other days, but even
so the cathedral seemed deserted. On the cruise, kneeling between the choir and the altar could be
seen several nuns in starched and beaked caring touch of groups of girls dressed black, red
or blue ties, according to the school to which they belonged. A few military Academy fat and
bald, they heard mass standing, supporting ros on his chest warrior. In this crowd scattered
and distracted by music, stood out ladies College of Noble Maidens, young barely entered puberty
or women superb across the breadth of women's development, watching with eyes of coal, all
in suits black silk lace mantilla comb mounted on roses and colorful strokes, as aristocratic
ladies of grace manolesca breaks a Goya painting.

Gabriel saw his nephew, Tato dressed in scarlet gown, like a noble Florentine banging on the
slabs with a stick to scare the dogs. Arguing with a group of pastors of the saw: men blackened and
twisted like branches, with coats and brown sandals and leggings, females with red scarves and
skirts filthy and patched passing generation to generation. They had come down from the mountains
to see the Corpus of Toledo, and roamed the naves of the cathedral with awe in her eyes, afraid
of their own steps, trembling every time the organ roared, as if they feared being expelled
from that same magical palace to the stories. The women pointed a finger at the color windows,
rosettes of the covers, the golden warriors clock gate Fair pipes organs, and remained motionless,
his mouth open, in stupid contemplation. The dogcatcher, with their red robes, they looked
like a prince, and troubled by respect, could not understand his words. When threatened with his
cane Tato a mastiff that clung to the legs of their masters, these people simply decided to leave the
church rather than abandon the faithful wild life partner.

Gabriel looked the choir.

The high and low chairs were occupied. It was the day great party, and not just the canons
and beneficiaries were in their seats, but the priests the chapel of the Kings and the chapel prebendades
Mozarabic, the two small churches living apart, with traditional autonomy within the Cathedral
of Toledo.

Luna was in the middle of the chorus to his friend the choirmaster, with ruffled surplice, moving
a small baton. Around him were grouped a dozen musicians and singers, whose sounds and voices were
drowned every time from the top of accompanying the body. The priest led with a gesture of
resignation, while the music lost, weak and overwhelmed, in the solitude
of the giant ships.

On the altar, on his square coach, was executed by the famous master custody Villalpando, a
Gothic temple, carefully draft, glittering with gold tremor in the
light of candles, and work as subtle and air trembled at the slightest
movement, rocking their shots like bunches of spikes.

Iban arriving at the cathedral the procession guests: lords of the city in a black suit; Academy
teachers dress, with all its decorations, official Civil guard with uniforms of the soldiers
remembered the beginning of the century. For advanced ships, swaying with slight hops, children
dressed as angels: about angels to the Pompadour, with brocade jacket, red heels, frill of lace
wings brass hanging from the shoulder blades and a turban with feathers on the white wig. The
Primate for the party drew their traditional dress. The dress uniforms of public servants temple
were all eighteenth century, the last period of prosperity. The two men who had to guide the
coach went with powdered curls and black trousers and jacket, and the abbots of last century,
the wooden sticks vergers and is adorned with starched ruffs and wigs; brocade and velvet covered
all the people of the Claverias, I could barely eat.

Even the acolytes wore gold Dalmatian.

The altar was decorated with tapestries of both rides, the famous panels of the Kings Catholic emblems
and shields, Cisneros gift to the cathedral.

The auxiliary bishop said Mass, and he and his aides deacons were sweating under the traditional
cassocks and capes, embroidered embroidered with thick accents and dazzling, overwhelming as
ancient armor.

Moved the cathedral at the approach of the procession. Sounded the doors of the sacristy opening
and closing with a bang, went the busy people from one place to another. In this life calm and monotonous,
the annual incidence of a procession that was to visit several streets same disorders and
occupations caused a risky expedition to distant countries.

After the Mass, the organ began to roar a messy and noisy place, something like a wild dance
while ordering the procession. Outside the cathedral bells rang.

Music from the Academy had ceased to play a paso doble in the door
Llana, and hear the commands of the officers and the clash of heads
in unison to be stationary companies of cadets.

Don Antolin, with his big stick of silver and white brocade cope, he went around to another, bringing
together employees of the temple. Gabriel saw him sweaty and stuffy approach.

- At your place: it's time.

And what led to the altar, next to custody. Gabriel and eight men were introduced within the
framework of lifting a cloth covering their sides. They had to stoop
inside the engine.

His mission was to push him to slip on hidden wheels.

They are only providing the impetus was for: out, both servers and white wig black suit were
responsible for the front and rear rudder, guiding the carriage Eucharistic through the winding
streets. Gabriel was placed by peers in the center. He warn when he had to stop or start driving.
Monumental custody was mounted on a platform with a large counterweight, between it and the
carriage was a hand's breadth open, through which his eyes peered Gabriel, giving the boat shown
in front.

- Warning ...! March! - Gabriel said, in obedience to an external signal.

And the sacred chariot began to move slowly down the incline of wood covering the steps of the
altar. Passing the gate had to stop. The people knelt, and gnawing at her Don Antolin and wooden
sticks, were advancing with their long canons red vestments, the
auxiliary bishop golden miter, and the dignities with white mitres
linen without adornment.

All knelt before the custody, the court was silent, and accompanied by the clearing of a trombone,
sang a song praising the Sacramento. Incense blue rose in wisps around custody, watching the glint
of gold. When stopped the song, the organ sounded again and the coach stood up again. He trembled
all it from the bottom to top, and the move towards sound like the jingle of silver aware of
their bells Gothic ornaments. Gabriel walked holding on to a cross of car, staring at the helms,
feeling in his legs the brush of pushing artifact that cars like the Asian Indian idols.

On leaving the cathedral through the door Llana - the only temple which is at street level -
Gabriel was able to cover in sight throughout the procession.

He saw the riders of the Civil Guard breaking the march, the drummers of the city dressed in red,
and the crosses of the grouped parishes without order of the sleeve around the cathedral, huge,
very heavy, like a balloon covered embroidered figures. After all the free street center, flanked
by two rows of clerics military and candles, the incense deacons,
assisted by the angels Rococo Asia had the navetas of perfume, and
the canons of historical layers with large value.

Behind the officials clustered Sacramento, and the battalion of cadets brought up the rear, rifle
arm, shaved heads into the air, swaying to the rhythm of the march.

Gabriel air inhaled with delight the road. He who had seen the largest capital Europe, admired
the ancient streets of that city after his long confinement in the cathedral. Seemed crowded,
and even experienced the dizzy that great upheavals modern cause in those accustomed to a sedentary
life.

Showed themselves balconies hung with antique tapestries and shawls, the streets were tented with
the floor covered by a layer of sand so that the float Eucharistic could slide over the sharp
pebbles.

On the slopes, slogging custody. Sweating, panting, the blind men in the car. Gabriel coughed,
her spine pain from confinement in the mobile dungeon and majesty of turbábase progress with
the commands of the canon Obrero, which robes red and a stick in hand, led the procession,
rebuking many times, their movements disordered, the coxswains and
that drove the coffin.

Apart from these penalties, Gabriel was satisfied with his extraordinary escape through of the
city. Laughing thinking about what he had said the crowd kneeling in reverence to know that his eyes
looked out under custody. Those officers trousers red and white overalls, with the sword at
his side and cocked hat on his thigh escorting God certainly had
news of its existence, one would have heard of him, and perhaps kept
his name in memory as an enemy of society.

And the damned repelled by all, taking refuge in a hole in the cathedral,
adventurous birds nesting in vaults, was guiding the way of God for
the religious city streets ...!

At noon turned over custody to the Primacy. Gabriel, as he passed the door Muffin, the exterior
walls was adorned with the famous tapestries.

Finished chants Farewell, the priests took off his clothes quickly,
looking for the door helter-skelter, without greeting.

Iban to eat later than usual, that extraordinary day troubled existence.

The church, so noisy and bright in the morning, despoblábase rapidly, falling into silence and
gloom.

Stephen was outraged to see Gabriel leave the carriage of the Eucharist.

- You'll kill: this is not for you. What whim was yours?

Gabriel laughed. Yes, it was a fad, but did not regret it. Had taken a walk by city ??without being
seen, and his brother would have to meet two days for their maintenance.

He wanted work, not to be burdensome.

The Wooden Staff are softened.

- But lamb, do you ask for something? Do I need anything but quiet and you live better?

As if to match this with another sacrifice to please his brother, rising Claverias not put the
grim face and spoke to her during the meal.

In the afternoon, the upper cloister was almost deserted. Don Antolin rushed down the stubs,
rejoicing to learn that many outsiders were awaiting him.

El Tato Ringer and stealthily crept down the stairs of the tower
dressed in their best clothes.

Iban bulls. Sagrario, forced the rest to sanctify the party, had spent the house of the shoemaker.
While he taught the giants of servants, soldiers of the Academy Pardito the field and the niece
of Luna helped to mend the clothes that poor woman overwhelmed by poverty and too many children.

When
the maestro di cappella and Wooden Staff down to the choir, Gabriel came to the cloister. Only
saw him as a cadet who was walking with his hand on the hilt of the sword, putting almost horizontal,
as the tailings rabitiesas times. Moon was recognized for his broad pants and wasp waist, he did
say the Tato that this cadet wearing a corset. Was Juanito, the nephew of the cardinal. Often
walked through the cloister waiting for a chance to speak with Leocadia, the beautiful daughter
of the sexton of the Virgin.

Of parents had not nothing to fear, but the future warrior had some
respect for the grandmother Tomasa, who watched with disfavor these
relationships and threatened to tell his uncle hacérselas Cardinal.

Gabriel had spoken several times with the cadet.

When the boy was in the cloister pegábase to him for conversation, to justify their presence in
these talks in Claverias. Luna was shocked to see him there in late parties.

- But are not you going to fight? - Asked -. All of the Academy must be in the plaza.

Johnny smiled, stroking his mustache. It was his favorite gesture,
and stood with satisfaction sleeve, adorned with sergeant's stripes.

There was a cadet either: it was a "gallon" and this, even if little
to the dreams of the generals, it was always a step later ... No,
not going to bulls, it was a true amateur, but was sacrificed for
speaking an afternoon with his girlfriend at the door of his home
in the silence of the Claverias.

Grandmother had fallen into the garden, and Virgin Blue would soon be out, leaving the field
open, as if not aware of anything. The great evening, my friend Gabriel! He had more serious
occupations important that the rookie of the Academy, who spent Sunday in the cafés or walking like
suckers. His girlfriend is the jealous all at the Alcazar: to teachers.

- And when is the wedding? - Gabriel said cheerfully.

The "gallon" replied with an expression of important man. There were many things to do before:
convince his uncle, which was not easy, and follow the impulses of his star, until reach a
certain height. He was reserved for big things. Was a matter of few years.

- I, my friend Luna, I'm from the wood of the young general. It is a good shade of the family. My uncle
that, being an altar boy, was certain to get a cardinal, and has arrived. I ascend too fast.
Besides, you know that an archbishop of Toledo is not anything and the guy has a palace and
demand relations in the Ministry of War as well as if it were a general. As it is more military
than cure!

To prove it, here is the only thing has written a prayer to the Virgin,
so the soldiers recite before entering fire.

- And you, Johnny, do
you really for the military?

- Very.

Since I learned to read and open books, I wanted to be like the great captains that I saw on
the plates, upright on his horse, sword in hand, proud and beautiful. Believe me in this race no
one enters without calling. The seminars are now locked against their will, but nobody is
spent on military force: he who comes to the Academy is because it
comes from within.

And everyone is so sure of success as you?

- Oh, all of you - he smiled the nephew of Cardinal -. Only the vast majority have no as likely
to have a career. But with as many as we are, there is not one to think the possibility of becoming
captain vegetating in a reserve regiment, or die getting old, at most, to commander. All we first
highlighted by youth the uniform, the adventures (because you know that women get off on us)
the joy of life, loved and respected at all times, a span over countryman; later, when old age
approaches and grow one and start to go bald, the general belt, politics, and who knows if
the portfolio of War! This is the thought of all. No who does not believe that the future awaits a
belt, and will no longer take it down to wear on the waist. I know certainly that I expected.
Others imagine it ... and so we live.

Gabriel smiled at hearing the cadet.

- You are a deluded, just like those poor guys who enter the seminary believing that they expected
the miter or a great perk to the other side of the door. Is seduction still exercised after death the great
things that were. We'll see ... besides material result of the race, why are military you ...?

-
For the glory! - Cadet pompously said, remembering the speeches of Colonel-Director Academy -.
For my country, whose defense is entrusted to us! In honor of our flag!

- The Glory! - Gabriel said ironically -. I know that. Often, watching you so young, so inexperienced,
so full of false hopes, I've redone inside me that could be called the psychology of the cadet.
Guess what you have thought of that before enter the Academy and
I foresee the bitter and crushing disappointment that awaits them
upon departure.

The stories of wars and martial arts uniform have won your childhood. After bellicose readings
of poetry irresistible: Bonaparte, with his flag, passing the Arcola
bridge through the clouds of shrapnel as big as a god, then, our general
to go home: Espartero in Luchana, O'Donnell in Africa, and above all,
Prim, the leader almost legendary, leading with his sword the battalions
in Castillejos, "I want the same thing - say boys -, where a man comes,
you can reach another.

"Enthusiasm is taken predestination, and each is believed made by God to be a famous leader.
While we live here in Toledo, dreams of glory, risky business, with huge battles noisy and
triumphs. But when the two stars in the manga is going to a regiment, which first out to greet you
at the door of the barracks, almost before the greeting of sentinel is ugly and unpleasant reality.
The one who dreamed of glory and be covered with famous chieftain before thirty years, rather than thinking
of strategic combinations and original fortifications has to deal with the washing and cleaned
up a few surly waiters who come from excessive smelling health field, try the ranch, talk about
shorts and shirts and calculate the duration of boots and sandals. He who never entered the
kitchen of his home and was cared carefully by her mother, ignoring women's issues as everything
that was not to cry control and align soldiers first encountered in the military is the need to
be a cook, tailor, shoemaker, etc., often holding their superiors refusals because it does
not demonstrate proficiency in these tasks.

- It's true - Juanito said, laughing - but without it there can be no army and the army is necessary.

-
No need to discuss whether or not. I mean only that you (and if you do not, because it goes to a good
start, his teammates) are a deluded, unknowingly preparing the failure
of life, like those other young people, poorer or less vigorous, are
to enter the Church.

The Church ended because there is no faith, military glory is over forever in Spain because
there are no wars of conquest and power our feisty character was lost, fortunately, for centuries.
If we still have war, civil or colonial; zompas wars we might call, dull and useless, in which men die
as well as at Thermopylae or in Austerlitz, as only a life once lost, but without the consolation
of fame and public admiration, without the aura of what they call glory. You were born too
late. The brightness of other ages are attracted to the illusion, but arrive late to call. You
are the warriors of a people necessarily must live in peace, as the seminarians are the future
priests in a country already no miracles, nor is there faith, but routine and laziness of thought.

-
But if we no longer have foreign wars, if eventually the gains we serve, the less to defend
the integrity of Spanish soil, to save the house. Do you think - added piqued the cadet - we
are not willing to die for their country?

- No doubt it is the only thing we serve the Spanish-to die very heroically, but finally die.
For two centuries our history contains nothing heroic deaths.

"Glorious defeat of that party. "" Heroic disaster of such other. "By land and sea have caused
astonishment in the world, throwing us with his eyes closed in danger, presenting the head without
flee with the stoicism of the Chinese. But nations are not great for his defiance of death,
but for his ability to stay alive.

The Poles were the terror of the Turks and about of the best soldiers in Europe, and Poland for
some time that there .... If a great power could invade Europe (mind
you when I say 'could', because in these cases is not wanting the
same power), from here I know what would happen.

The Spanish would know die but have you the assurance that the invaders did not take more than
two battles pitched to finish with all our means of warfare. And that can rid a couple of days,
how many sacrifices it costs the country ...!

- Then - ironically the cadet said - there will be deleted and leave the army helpless the nation.

-
Today, do not expect that to happen. While Europe is armed and even more small nation has an army,
Spain will have it too. It is she who will lead by example, and this example would be useless.
It is as if to redress social injustice initiate the sacrifice one that only had a few thousand
pesetas, denying them ....

After a long silence, Gabriel spoke softly, in view of the ironic and almost aggressive gesture
Cadet.

- You will undoubtedly hurt my statements. Believe me, I'm sorry, I do not like beliefs hurt anyone,
plus those that form the ideal of life. But the truth is the truth. You do not care about social
issues, is not it? Not known, nor will be concerned for a moment. The same will happen to all
his colleagues, and yet, what you suffer in prestige, in his love of country and its flag, no other
reason than the social disarray that prevails today in the world.
Wealth is everything capital is the lord of the land. Science governing
mankind as the successor of faith but the rich have taken their findings
and to perpetuate their monopoly tyranny. In the economic world have
become owners of the machines and other advances, using them as chains
to enslave the worker, forcing him to excess production and limiting
to the minimum wage. In the life of nations is the same. Today war
is simply an application of science. The richest people have taken
over major advances the art of killing, have herds of battleships,
thousands of guns monstrous can keep millions of men under arms, with
all modern improvements, without breaks his fortune. A poor people
are left to the use of silence or unnecessarily indignant, as do the
dispossessed to the holders of the property. The most cowardly people
on the globe, or more sedentary, you can be invincible warrior or
conqueror glorious if you have money