 

Finding out free Don Marcelo saw the poor woman with red eyes, the bony face, hair in disarray.
The night had gravitated to its existence with a weight many years. All their energy suddenly
vanished as he recognized the owner. "Lord ... sir! " moaned convulsively. And she threw herself
into his arms weeping.

Don Marcelo did not want to know anything, was afraid of the truth. However, asked the concierge.
Now he was awake and free, stroked momentary hope that everything
seen him last night was a nightmare.

Perhaps the poor man was still alive ...

- They killed him, sir ... What killed the man who looked good ... I do not know where your body:
nobody wanted to tell me.

He suspected that the body was in the pit. The waters were calm green mysteriously closed on the
offering of the night ... Desnoyers guessed that another disaster
further concern to the mother, but remained coy silence.

It was she who spoke, including cries of pain ... Georgette was in the hall, the castle had fled
in horror the departure of the invaders.

They had kept in his possession until the last minute.

- Lord, do not see ... Trembles and weeps to think that you can talk after what happened. It's
crazy, wants to die. Oh, my daughter ... And none shall punish these monsters? ...

They had left the underground and crossed the bridge. The woman stared at the green water and united.
The body of a swan floating on them.

Before leaving, while saddling horses, two officers had fun hunting revolver shots to residents
of the lagoon. Aquatic plants had blood between the leaves floated a white studs and sagged, as
canvases escaped from the hands of a laundress.

Don Marcelo and the woman exchanged a look of pity.

It is pity to look at each other sunlight to his misery and aging.

She felt reborn their energies to thinking about the daughter. The passage of these people
had destroyed everything in the castle was no other food than a forgotten piece of stale bread
in the kitchen. "And we must live, sir ... We must live, if only to see how punished God ... "The
old man shrugged his shoulders in despair:" God? ... But this woman was right: had to live.

With the audacity of his youth, when he sailed the seas infinite ground new world leading troops of
cattle, was launched outside the park. He saw the valley, yellow and green smiling in the
sun, the groups of trees, the yellow square of land, with harsh beard
stubble, the hedges, where birds sang, the whole summer splendor a
cultivated countryside and combed for fifteen centuries by dozens
and dozens of generations.

And yet, it was considered alone, at the mercy of fate, exposed to perish from hunger, more
just when going through the horrendous high Andes, the winding of rock and snow peaks involved in
a deadly silence, interrupted from time to time by the flapping of the condor. Nobody ...
His view did not distinguish a single movable point: everything fixed, motionless, crystallized, as
if contrajese to dread the thunder was rolling on the skyline.

He went to town, a mass of black walls of several huts emerging intact
and a bell tower without tiles, with the cross twisted by fire. Nobody
planted either in the streets bottles, charred wood, soot-covered
rubble. The bodies had disappeared, but a rotten stench of grease,
burnt flesh, seemed to hold to the nostrils. We went through everything,
until you reach the site occupied by the barricade of dragons. The
wagons were still on one side of the road. He saw a mound of earth
at the same Instead of shooting. Two feet and one hand sticking to
the ground