 Want to be one that are the
coach of Sacramento?

Gabriel went to answer with pride to cure malicious: guessed his intention to annoy. But he
immediately tempted by the desire to win the Silver Stick accepting his proposal. He wanted to
surprise you by accessing your crazy idea. Besides, he thought it would be this sacrifice worthy of
the generosity that he had his brother. Since I could not help with large aid money, demonstrate
their desire to work.

The scruples of pride desvanecíanse it in the hope of bringing home a couple of pesetas.

- You do not want - the priest went on mocking tone -. You are too "green" and your dignity would
suffer much the Lord walking in the streets of Toledo.

- Well you
are wrong.

As will, I do want, but the work is too heavy for sick.

- Why is not - Don Antolin said resolution -.

At least be ten in the car, and there are strong men to see. You would go to complete the number.
And I recommend you for you to keep certain considerations.

- Well
done deal, Don Antolin.

You tell me. I am ever to earn a wage it occurs.

Had just decided his desire to leave the cathedral, passing, no one would notice him through the streets
of Toledo, who had not seen since he locked himself in the temple.

In addition, strongly tickled her vanity was the ironic situation that if he, with his rotund pasease
religious denials to the crowd who devoted the God of Catholicism.

This show made him smile. It was almost symbolic. Surely the Silver Stick rejoiced also, seeing
in it a small triumph of religion, forcing its enemies to take shoulder.

But he felt differently: in the car represent Eucharistic doubt and
denial hidden inside a cult by its outward pomp and splendor, but
empty of faith and ideals.

- We agreed, Don Antolin.

In a moment I will run into the cathedral.

They parted.

And Gabriel, after digesting milk quietly served his niece, down the temple, without telling the family
that she planned work. He feared the protest of his brother.

In the lower cloister again met Silver Stick.

He spoke with the gardener, presenting it shocked a bunch of pins with a red ribbon. He had
picked up in the holy water the door of Joy.

Every year, the day of Corpus Christi, was offering the same in the same place. A stranger
to the church spent the first year's wheat.

- Must be a fool - said the priest -. What does this lead? What does this do? If at least it was
a load of sheaves, as in the good times of the tithe ...!

And while contemptuously threw the spikes on a bed of garden, Gabriel thought to admiration atavistic
force that was revived in the Catholic church offering full gentile, tribute to the Divinity of the
first fruits of the earth fertilized by the summer.

The choir was finished and began the Mass when Gabriel entered the cathedral. The little people
commented at the door of the sacristy major incident of the party. His Eminence had no down
to the choir or attend the procession. He said he was sick, but the house smiled recalling
that the previous evening he had gone for a walk to the shrine of the Virgin de la Vega. Was that
he would not see the town hall. I was in a fit of anger against him, and showed contempt by
refusing to preside in the choir.

Gabriel walked the aisles. The gathering of the faithful was higher
than other days, but even so the cathedral seemed deserted. On the
cruise, kneeling between the choir and the altar could be seen several
nuns in starched and beaked caring touch of groups of girls dressed
black, red or blue ties, according to the school to which they belonged.
A few military Academy fat and bald, they heard mass standing, supporting
ros on his chest warrior. In this crowd scattered and distracted by
music, stood out ladies College of Noble Maidens, young barely entered
puberty or women superb across the breadth of women's development,
watching with eyes of coal, all in suits black silk lace mantilla
comb mounted on roses and colorful strokes, as aristocratic ladies
of grace manolesca breaks a Goya painting