 You know you are selling to the meek the parish ...

- And how are you now here in the village?

- Since the death of my father (God rest his soul) living at home: businesses have not been very
good, and will cost some time to fix yet. Yet the story, God by, say mass within two years
... Ea, bajémonos a bit to stretch my legs and take a bite ... Will
not you take a quarter pound or a drink, D. Andrew?

They were in front of a solitary hut on whose door waved a white flag
and red, giving testimony that there were worshiped Bacchus.

- Do
not take anything, but will come down to accompany you.

The devil is hurting me in the chair.

- You will not lose time - approaching Celesto said to hold the stirrup
and down as Could the voice .-- Are you going to see one of the best
party girls, straighter than a pine well-armed and well planted ...
It will suck you fingers ...

The faces that the seminarian made to
utter such words are not for described.

Her eyes aqueous sparkled like diamonds in Brazil and the volcanic nose quivered with joy.

- Come on, Amalia, sandunguera, give me a shot glass of rasa and this man what he likes. So You
could throw you in the cup, saucy, and I drink you with great satisfaction, but busting after a
grenade!

- So you do bad stomach, chaplain?

- I do not know, starry sky, the only thing I can say is that I stir
up a lot of nerves.

- For lime, honey, lime.

What do you take, sir? (To Andrew).

- A glass of water.

Amalia while washing the glass in a bowl placed at the end of the
counter, Andrés examined at your pleasure.

Celesto data seemed accurate. It was an arrogant girl figure and good
eyes logs and bruised arms, fat and too much red.

When he opened his mouth to laugh, taught healthy white teeth, but
nothing tiny.

- Give me another pink face, when I see you I dried
my throat ... Come, D. Andrew, do not home would take her to willingly?

-
And what I had to want this man in your house? - Laughing mischievously
asked her.

- To give you candy, princess - are not they, D. Andrew?

-
Go!

- I do not like sweets.

- What if I gave you the, star? - Asked
the seminarian with syrupy voice, entering the enclosed by the counter
and step closer to the girl cat.

- Bah ... then I will gladly eat
them - she said ironically.

- Really, honey? - Celesto asked while
grabbing her by the chin and sticking cardinalfish clear eyes, ignited
by a spark of love.

Andrew felt that it should go to see how the horses went. They had not moved from the site; quiet,
downcast, lost.

The carefully considered, reviewed their helmets to see how were
horseshoes, fixed gear, while inside the bar hear a cheerful and continued
to romp, sprinkled with tender phrases, laughter and not a few blows.

There, after for quite a while, went Celesto with pale cheeks and noses fatigue scorched than
before.

- Come on up ... There are to be stepped up ... What girl, D. Andrew! Right? ... It has a sister
who will be better that she still ... What more espetada girl and richer! - So formadita well
ahead as if I were twenty years and not more than fourteen ... Arre horse! Would not you repaired,
D. Andrew, how grateful the horse that the rider take a few drinks? It is well known, to run a
lazy horse, there as poured from his chest and back a mug of gin
... Well there where you see, D. Andrew, there is nothing Amalita
surly.

- Ya, I see you know you look for the folds.

Celesto satisfaction laughed until swallowing tears.

- Bah! Already have looked before I did many others. I enjoy a little with her when I come and go
... but there is no more ... Of course, D. Andrew, this only lasts
until take the higher orders, because I will not be a bad priest ...

-
You will do very well, otherwise, you'd better follow a different
career.

- Nothing, nothing, I am resolved to: the same day I ordered
that was that ... Out came outside women, and new life as God intended
...

He kept moving his tongue with increasing vigor seminarian while
the operation lasted on his head were the glasses of gin.

When he got tired of talking, singing some Trimmed picaresque song
obscene, laugh not a little to young courtier.

Joy is contagious, like sadness.

The Celeste got pegársele and soon came to him The duo, putting unusual exercise forces your
lungs faint.

Why not stopped walking at a brisk pace by the pleasant road, which
clung like a ribbon white skirts of the hills.

The valley was closing. Behind the wooded hills and crests poked some mountains announcing that
passengers would soon enter another craggy region in the heart of the mountains. Indeed, the
road ended abruptly near a strong tightness of the mountains, where they settled a village of little
importance. Thence along a path as soon as narrow width, which skirted the mountain in the
likeness of the road and was shaded by large tracts of farm adjoining
hazel.

The landscape was more and more wild. The valley had been transformed into ravine, where a
bustling river and crystalline ran through narrow but very delightful
meadows.

Here and there the canyon was amplified, as if to deserve such a name, sometimes closed till
you changing into true throat, where there was little more space than that occupied the road
and river.

This, as we walked towards his birth, was lost in flow, though gaining much in pleasantness and freshness,
more alive, more delicate sound. Large yellow pebbles which formed its bed dejábanse see very
clean, and even in the deepest wells, worked the edge of a cliff, explored the eyes all the
secrets of background ... The mountains Sometimes he stood on a peak, and were white and crowned with
ornate crest, including holes which showed the blue sky. Moss was in these large piers dark
green, that stood out bravely against the white of the limestone.

Crowd shrubs and occasionally trees, stuck the roots in their cracks and appeared as hanging on
gnarled and fantastic views on the river. "

The voice of the seminary, constantly singing its gross Anacreontics, echoed formidably in the
rocks.

Andrew was silent as a mute. He was overcome with emotion at this respect and vigorous nature,
which had not only seen in the landscapes in oil or gouache.

- Are we very far from Riofrio, friend?

- No, sir, and we entered the council of the branes. Riofrio, which is the capital, is in the center.
As we emerge from this tightness and go up a short repechito, we'll
see.

You will not like these peñascotes, right? accustomed to living in
cities ...

- On the contrary, I love: this is beautiful.

The seminarian turned his face inflamed gin, fearing that Andrew joke,
but seeing very seriously, made a slight grimace of surprise, and
herding the horse with hazel wielding, turned to pick up the thread
of his favorite song.

"Women who are overweight and tender And it has good leg ... And the priest to sin, Deserved to be
a countess, marquise, duchess And the priest cardinal. "

    
            And it brought peace to
            the song, until he spotted
      a girl who arrived with a basket on his
            head.

- Hello, Telva, good body: where did you go at this hour, chiquirritilla? I guess not Lada ...

At
the same time blocked his path with the horse and give you tap on
the cheek with the rod.

- Well, I'm Lada.

- What if you eat the
wolves?

- Little is lost.

- You'd lose a girl like the sun.

- Yes,
from noon!

Let me go, Celeste.

- In seguidita, but before you tell me where to go.

- A Lada, do
not you know?

- That's not true: you're going to Marin to bring fruit
to your aunt, and we went to see your cousin.

- Good Wins do I have
to see cousins ??or uncles!

Come on, let me pass, I've been in a hurry.

Andrew had continued walking, the suspicion that the conversation
would be long and not very fun (for him at least).

Repechito rose that he had spoken Celesto, more advanced, and turn
a corner the road, suddenly ofreciose to view a spectacle that left
him suspended.

At his feet there in the background, discerns an enjoyable and virgin
valley, crossed by a crystal stream eses was doing, leaving them both
sides dazzling green pastures.

Close this valley some wooded hills darker tone. Behind the hills, Second, his brow raised
high mountains of white stone, beyond these alzábanse other even
higher, then higher ones yet, and so on an indefinite series of boulders,
leaning upon each other, as if it steep for a glimpse to this fresh
and delightful corner.

Phoenicia and began the evening twilight. Andrew was in ecstasy before that semicircle Immense mountains,
empty seats seemed a conference of gods. At the highest played almost the red clouds that
accompanied the sun in its descent. From the hills to mediated lower very short distance, although
the view is often misleading in such cases. Staining white on the dark green of the hills, planted
appeared, or rather, hanging over the valley some villages. At the heart was seen one bigger than
the other, resting between foliage of a superb vegetation .-- He must be Riofrío - is putting
the said Andrew hand over his eyes, by way of display, to examine
in greater comfort.

But the gentle village resisted inspection, half-hiding behind the trees, which served the
full extent of poetic stronghold. Could not be anything more beautiful. The river, lit by the oblique
rays of the sun, was a polished silver belt that imprisons him. Our traveler experienced the
sweet surprise of facing a treasure. He recalled the untouched valleys of serialized novels, and
agreed that he had never imagined anything so beautiful and demure. Happy thought, who was born
in this secluded retreat and never lost sight of him. At the same time came to his mind a rush
of melancholy reflections, inspired in part by its pitiful state, partly by the bitterness of
romantic writers, which was saturated.

But when it was entirely embedded in them, behold, a horse, harnessed and without rider, arrives and
crosses fast. He acknowledged the hack point .-- Canario Celeste! What have happened? If you
have killed! - And hastily turned around and went to the place where leave him. Celesto apuradísima
was in a state. Shrunken, folded, curled, lying at the foot of a road boundary walls, while Telva
stood a little higher, in attitude angry, flashing eyes, cheeks pale, ruthlessly throwing all the
stones that was at hand. And the tongue just as quickly moved with the hands.

- Shameless!

Pig! That will teach the seminar, great rascal! Ill take you hell you and all chaplains! Come,
come again and see how I pull these Nose bad!

Andrew stepped in and managed to throw the girl no more pebbles on the hapless seminarian I was
about to go badly if one of them was right, but the insults continued more and better, as he walked
slowly placate anger.

- The Demon of capellanzote! ... If you think you are dealing with a mort! ... Dirty! Dirty! Suciote!
... I'll tell your mother, he thinks he is a saint at home ... Anda walks with the saint! No,
the masses that you tell me the key here!

Thus went away shouting and slowly, while Andrew got up from ground
to the victim and shook hands with dust.

Celesto touched everywhere, to see if I had a spot of body bruised, and said with a sigh:

- What a great mare!

- I thought you had thrown the horse, it went ahead with great speed ...

- Yes, it smells like around the block has not waited.

Mount you, D. Andrew.

- Do you?

- I'll walk perfectly.

This was done.

Celeste was a little embarrassed.

- Of course, D. Andrew, this mess will conclude the day you take the higher orders - said after
walking a while in silence.

- You are right - Andres replied smiling ironically - that day ... that was that.

- Just ... that was that.

Calm down with all the valley through a narrow, zig-zag path. The rectory was the first in the
village, some distance away from the others. In front of her stopped. It was one story, very
old, large corridor of decayed wood and covered most of it by a vigorous
vine that imprisoned under dry with a thousand arms and acted as beautiful
wreath above, the vast village eaves swallows' nests, the door black
street and heading by using the environment as those of all that region,
for both of side garden, fruit trees which far outstrips the height
of the wall.

- Hello, Father!

... Mrs. Rita, Mrs. Rita! ... Come on, you despáchense, carambita that bring strangers! - began
to cry Celesto, applying at the same time harsh blows to the bottom
of the door, which was the one that was closed.

Almost simultaneously appeared in the corridor and the door respectively
Riofrío cure and his mistress.

- Who is it? - Asked the priest from
above and the love from the bottom.

- Almost anyone!

... His nephew in person, father - said Celeste.

- Shells! I'm glad ... I did not think it would be so timely. Here I go, there I go now ...

But progress had been made Mrs. Rita, with its morbid and pale face and figure of a dog granted,
to receive the visitor with enthusiasm bordering on frenzy.

- Virgen del Amor Hermoso! The Master Andrew! What is the poor skinny! If part heart!

And to utter such words, as Andrew had not dismounted, kissed one of the hands effusion. In our traveler
pleasantly surprised that his poor health depart the heart of a person who had never seen. Dismounted,
took leave affectionately Celeste, and embraced his uncle and escorted by the nurse, climbed the
winding stairs of the rectory.

V

The priest was nearing Riofrío in sixty years.

He was small and thick, short neck, chubby face and red, or rather, purple, clear, round eyes,
as paths a compass; agile in his movements, despite obesity, and
strong as an athlete.

The expression his features regular, hard, almost fierce, but when he had to say something, even
if as insignificant, v. gr., when asked the time or the weather was,
swelled such luck Bourbon nose, eyes wide open and nailed them with
such force the interlocutor, it needed a lot of presence of mind and
composure to not lie shaking.

Andrés deeply felt intimidated when her uncle asked her to take off
his boots and to set out the shoes.

- I think that there is no shoes
in the suitcase ... Originate in the trunk that brings a road - said,
with shrunken appearance and accent of one who confesses a crime.

-
What!

Do not bring shoes?

- No, sir - he dared to respond with a weak voice.

- Well, then you
will become a mine.

The priest took a moment in the dark alcove of the room, and left
holding a pair of sneakers like boats, which sank with a crash at
the feet of his nephew.

- Now take off that coat.

- What coat?

-
The ones you are wearing, man ... worthless ... paper looks ... You
are dying of cold.

Andrew realized he was referring to jaquette.

- No, sir, I have cold.

- Yes you have, put on that jacket lining, you'll see how quickly you go into heat.

In the jacket out to him his uncle fit comfortably over it, two nephews.

But Andrew was so scared that I got no reply.

- Now you need to hold
those heads, man, that head!

... The hat hurts the front ... Wait a minute, do I have a hat that
you come from knob.

It was a black velvet cap, high and vueludo, which covered her ears.

When looked the little mirror that hung above the dresser, was a
figure as dark and strange, so similar that of a shroud, he felt fear.

-
Sit in that chair now.

- I'm not tired.

- Sit down, I say, and respond
to what I ask.

"I will answer with all honesty?

- Yes, sir.

- How are you stomach?

- So, so.

- That's not saying anything ... You have promised me frankly ...

-
I am fairly.

The priest, who paced the room with his hands behind him, he stopped in front of his nephew,
and nailing in him a look of incredible ferocity, he said with strong
emphasis:

- Well, it is necessary to heal!

Andrew did not answer.

- Well, it is necessary to heal! - Repeated more loudly and without
ceasing to pierce with a glance.

- Will try - said Andrew muttered.

-
How?

- I will try.

- Ensure ... is good, is perfectly - the priest
said, softening a bit and continuing walks .-- The first thing to
do to heal is to take care of the coat, especially the coat the stomach.

Bring her belt, is not it?

- No, sir.

- What! Do not bring belt? - Said being still, petrified.

- No sir, I've missed.

- Tomorrow I'll put a flannel mine. It makes me five laps. To you I guess I will give you any
more.

- I give fifteen! - Thought desperately Andrew, who was sweating profusely and within the sheepskin.

The
priest continued walking and developing its therapeutic system founded almost exclusively in cotton
and wool. Andrew looked at him with keen curiosity while not without fear, imagining that
he had done badly in coming to fall into the clutches of the savage.

Once the description of the system, the curate of many things, not knowing, touching the family.
Thirty years ago it played one parish, without going beyond its terms four or five times to
go to the capital of the bishopric. Comrade had been the father Andrew, I had wanted in the
soul, but since her marriage had not been seen since. I once had fought as a matter of interest:
it had passed between them some very bitter letter that Andrew had found among the papers of
the minister. He told into one that "to reach the position he occupied on the bench, a speech
and some intellectual parts were needed.

"The priest replied that" to achieve the priestly state qualities
were also needed intelligence.

"The minister replied angrily:" When I have commanded you, man of God, also could not have ordered
the donkey you Valladolid took? "These and other obscenities they
had forgotten, apparently, on both sides.

The judge, when the priest spoke to his son, he said, "my cousin Lighter Fermin water. 'The
priest, when he referred to the magistrate, had always his finger to his forehead respect, to
indicate where the safe was his cousin.

Although some knew what he had passed after the death of one, was not aware of the various events
or the Brawls that the boy had with his guardian on grounds of interest. Andrew, a little
calmer and began to refer to often. At the point of breaking it face swelled so the priest, who
feared Andrés congestion.

- Poor fellow ... What is the good part?

- Who, my uncle?

... For very quiet walking and eating a third of my fortune, I've
given for not carrying my mother's brother to court.

- Fool! - Shouted
the priest sprang upon him with terrible eyes injected, but sudden
softening, he said: - It's not your fault ... Heredia to you after
all, as your father, like me, like my brother Pedro ... Some crackpots
all!

...

The conversation had lasted.

Mrs. Rita came to light a lamp oil, as the room was almost in darkness,
then spread the cloth for dinner on a table brown, black and polished
by years of use.

Soon came with a steaming pot, which he placed on the table, saying:

-
Dinner on the table.

- Holy Word! - Said the priest, rising.

Sitting in front of him, Andrew noted that the oil lamp light struck a table full hanging on
the wall, representing a soldier on horseback.

- What general is that, uncle? "- Asked, assuming it was a general.

- D. Ramón Cabrera - said the priest's voice cupping .-- Do not you know by his eagle eye? -
Y then extending his right hand on the pan, by way of blessing, he mumbled some Latin words,
that Andrew could not understand.
- A dinner, boy!

- Cabrera was a great general - Andrés said to
flatter his uncle.

- Who could doubt it, boy, who can doubt it! -
He said dropping the spoon on the plate .-- Only a spendthrift liberal
leader can call yet ... Walk, walk with the leader! ... If you have
seen in the battle of Muniesa with the telescope in hand, I understand
you, throwing lines and parallel ... Here, hidden behind the slope,
the cavalry to charge when needed ... Battalions in the rear of Navarre
... At the forefront of Spanish ... "Captain Tal, you display your
company and bother you guerrilla enemy flank right ... What Coronel,
protect yourself with a battalion captain may for the case of withdrawal
... Commander Tal, attack you with four companies that position ...
What Coronel, protect you with a battalion commander Tal in the event
of withdrawal ... Brigadier Tal, you leave with such and such regiments
on the left flank to take the enemy's rear ... Brigadier What, prepare
you to tackle head when I ordered. 