 He avoided the eyes of the lady
as a convicted criminal, and looked at the man with the same air used to announce desolate
depletion of a plate placed on the list. His gestures were trying to comfort protection moves Ferragut
of failure. "Patience and tenacity! ... Victorias most difficult he had seen in their clientele.
"

Before serving, put food on the table, by way of an appetizer, a bottle bulging of wine country,
a nectar from the slopes of Vesuvius with a distant sulfur taste. Freya had thirst and water
inspired him suspicious of this trattoria. Ulises needed to forget their recent failure ...
And the two made their libations to the gods, but with absolute purity
without a drop of water came to cut the clearness of the wine gem.

A group of singers and dancers filled the terrace. A coppery young, beautiful and dirty, wild hair,
big earrings in their ears and a multicolored striped apron, dancing under the arbor, waving aloft
a tambourine that was about the size of an umbrella.

Two little boys Lazaroni old dresses, with red cap and legs rolled up, accompanied by shouting
the lively dance of the tarantella.

The Gulf is colored pink, as if it grew in her womb, under the slanting rays of sun, vast forests
of coral.

The blue of the sky also turned pink, and mountains burned to reflect the dying star. The plume
was less white Vesuvius in the morning. His column hazy, streaked with red streaks in the dying
light, it seemed reflect the inner fire.

Ulysses felt friendly placid landscapes that inspire children covered. The had seen many times this
same scenario, with its dancers and its volcano, back in his big house Valencia: what fans
had seen in so-called "romantic" who collected his father.

Freya felt a thrill like that of his companion. The blue of the Gulf was of an intensity rabid
where not reflect the sun off the coast seemed to ocher houses had
a gaudy facades, and yet, all these disparate elements interpenetrate
and melted in a harmonious atmosphere, discreet, sweet elegance.

The vegetation was trembling in the breeze according to a measure. The air was musical, as if its
waves vibrate the strings of invisible harps.

This was for the real Greece Freya imagined by poets, not the burned
rock islands bare of vegetation he had seen in your travels around
the archipelago Greece.

- To live here the rest of my life - he murmured
with moist eyes -.

Dying here, forgotten single, Happy ...

Ferragut also wanted to die in Naples ... But with her!

... And his early and exuberant imagination described the delights of a life to two, love
and mystery, in any small "Villas" with garden overlooking the sea on the slopes of Possilipo.

The
dancers had gone to a sunroom, where the crowd was bigger. Entering new clients - nearly all
in pairs - and the day was falling. The waiter into the dining room was closed to some women with
large hats defaced, followed of young.

Through the open door came the sound of chases, crashes and jumps
with brutal laughter and tickling stifling laughter.

Freya turned
away, as if he offended the memory of his passage through this cave