 

What he has, some cavalry officer who came to those places to buy horses for the comeback, and it
was gorgeous and very funny and fun, he fell in love and got Juana woo. It is not known whether
he gave a promise of marriage or is not given, but the fact is that the good of the officer
had to go to civil war, which burned in the Basque provinces, and there he killed a Carlist bullet
that pierced her skull and you'll be entered in the brain.

Juana was thus semiviuda. Posthumous posthumously or not, had a beautiful girl, who gave at the
baptismal font the same name as his mother. The mob then added to the name the same epithet,
where this girl, who will be the main heroine of our story, became
Juanita surname.

Her mother was raised with love and care, without restraint and without pretense that she was his
daughter which would have been in that play, where everything was
known, the most futile of dissimulation.

Juana raised, then, to her breasts Juanita, always called her daughter, Juanita since he began to
speak, mother Joan called mouth full.

This was considered a great impudence among the strictest in the place, crying out against the
scandal and bad example, but gradually all became accustomed, and after a few years nothing
seemed more natural and more just, but Juanita was the daughter of Juana, to which there is
no lack defenders, and reasonable, earnest, praising the love and maternal devotion of mother to
daughter, and when they were little cursing did not stop Juana compare with others that passed
through very honest and even had the insolence Presumably almost
holy.

Of them murmured, more or less foundation, which had been also the
fruit, not a blessing, which had dropped off or sent to the Foundling
or God or the devil knows how else.

The epithet given to Juanita Long was not only for inheritance but it was also by conquest.

Juanita,
at seventeen, had gleaned so much that the girl was taller and more slender that was in place. Some
of the blood warlike cavalry officer had been infused in it, and the free and manly upbringing
he had received had developed their agility and their brightness. Whenever she had a martial
air, the pair that funny, ran like a deer, throw stones with such tact that killed the sparrows,
and jumped on the back was planted the mule more vicious or more wild pony. And not to straddle,
because this is not consented their honor and their natural beauty
and unconscious, but sitting, which is more difficult was trot and
gallop to the beast, spurring or whipping heels with the end of halter
or halter when he was not going to do hair, without a bridle or reins
of any kind.

The first years of the youth of Juanita had been difficult, because
his mother had not yet achieved the remarkable reputation enjoyed
after, I had the welfare and wealth that we have already spoken.

Juanita was never a crumb, but his mother taught him to sew and embroider
beautifully; and school teacher, it took a lot of affection, taught
to read and write free their leisure time.

Since he was nine years, Juanita was of great assistance to his mother, who until much later
not had the luxury of having a maid.

Juanita sweeping and mopping, washing dishes, and some rooms whitewashed facade the house, which
was the cleanest of the population, and even grabbed his water jug ??and was the miraculous
source of the ejido, which poured a stream pipe as thick as the arm
of a robust man, with such an abundance of water, that many gardens
were watered it and made lush, delightful Villalegre around, contributing
not little to the town deserve this name.

Water also was exquisite for its transparency and purity, as filtered through rocks of the nearby
hills, and had very pleasant flavor and very healthy condition. The people of people attributed
to him, finally, some prodigious qualities, calling it very vinaigrette and very wheat. He
meant by this that the carrier it bought in vinegar Villalegre yolk, usually strong, only two-thirds
filled cavity corambre and just filled the early morning, before your journey, mitigating
and smoothing with water from the source strength and bitterness
of the liquid, and earning it, of course, Thirty-three percent, but
sold the vinegar at the same price it was purchased.

Wheat was also the source water because its rare qualities consented, though difficult operation
and should be done with great secrecy, that using a broom palm dwarf, it is sprinkled with
wheat that was going to sell, leaving it exposed to sun for to dry.

So the wheat got better taste, and although the outside was dry, kept by in some of the liquid
and sponge and grew in weight and volume.

This source had yet another merit and provided another notable service, because in addition to a
great pillar that went to drink and drank all the beasts of burden and work and bulls cows and
oxen, and also another pillar under which used to be watering of sheep and pig, filled with its
crystal waves alberc贸n spacious enclosure walls that hid in view of passers-by, where women
were washing clothes, rolled up skirts thigh and stuck in water up to the knee, as there is use,
even in the rigor winter. Lush and gigantic black poplars and pines and reeds surrounding the
source and make this place shady and delightful. At the foot of the best trees are made of stone
benches and clay and covered with slabs, which usually sit in the gentlemen and ladies post-ride.
Almost every evening there is assembled gathering and pleasant conversation, being the more consistent
the notary, the apothecary, our Don Paco and the priest, who touch
to recite the Angelus prayers, which all satisfy his hat and crossed
himself and crossing.

Pillar around chatting the girls who come by water, each with a pitcher, and often Cardigans make
the paper with as many carriers Eliezeres go there to drink, if not their camels, their mules
and donkeys. Also next to and within the alberc贸n, and within walking distance it, where there
is a fence or hedgerow of blackberries, pomegranates, and honeysuckle, which limits and defends
the gardens, and on which the hedge is dried laundry, extends and expands the democratic and
popular gathering a lot of talk, laughter, hassles and frolic, as
there are missing never zagalones and even grown men who go out there
attracted to girls, as the sparrows go to wheat.

V

Juana la Larga, as already stated, through its continuing activity, order and economy, around
which her daughter helped her with intelligence and zeal, had improved position and fortune. He had
a very hard working maid, sweeping and scrubbing, and under the direction
of Ladies cooked well, leaving these free time to pursue their lucrative
trades.

Juanita The main office was sewing and embroidery, which had deployed to higher proficiency that
of his mother.

Juanita did not have to be used in lower occupations. But now it was for innocent vanity, or
desire to look for the grace of his person, wish not realized, pray for Juanita need from physical
exercise and to show and display power their healthy nature, Juanita, and even seventeen years
of age, liked to go for water the source of the ejido, paving sometimes,
despite the well off his mother's position and it alberc贸n going to
wash some clothes when the clothes were fine, she feared, or pretended
fear that rougher hands than his will damage it.

The truth was that this alberc贸n and go to the source, rather than
fatigue was recreation and relaxation for Juanita, which amused the
other girls with their sharp words and happy occurrences the cap was
removed and laugh enjoyed popularity and favor among them.

Juanita was already a pretty girl in every sense of the word. Housework had not spoiled her
pretty, shapely hands, and neither the sun nor the air had tanned his skin brunette. His black hair
with blue highlights, was well kept and clean. Do not put it or sweet almond oil or blandurilla
of any kind, but plain water with an infusion fragrant herbs to wash better. I was pulled high
on the occiput, in braids, which tied then, was a bun in the shape
of equilateral triangles, which played in one corner.

As Juanita said that "head crazy not to play" almost always went to the source without tissue
head, looking like the delicacy and neatness of her hair and showing how well planted I was the
head on her graceful neck, only overshadowed by some ricillos often than is subtracted to captivity
that had the longest hair bow. Ahead, collected hair, showed that forehead, straight, petite,
and the temples had large curls fork held there called snails, below which was a patillita soft,
not fixed against the face with psyllium or quince seeds, as do other girls, but left to float
freely rather vague rings or hooks where hanging hearts.

The same freedom that had been raised, and the constant physical exercise, and in useful tasks,
and in games as a boy as a child, Juanita had made, though he had the holy ignorance or had lived
with the recollection that recommend and seek other mothers jealous I had not thought of yet
in matters of love.

Was sought, and requested not to woo a few young men, but brave and surly, he knew lay s, command
respect and hold off the more daring.

Only one was known from childhood tilt persisted in it with constancy,
but this inclination, at least for his part, rather than affection
had traces of brotherly love affection.

Who inspired, no doubt sharing less innocent style, was Antonuelo, master blacksmith's son and
nephew of the chief, who had in place very humble parentage.

Antonuelo was a gentle and robust fine fellow, very nice, but short-sighted
and determined for all, and particularly to admire Juanita, whom he
regarded and respected by subjecting it all his will and by virtue
of fascination or spells.

VI

Don Paco given its constant and different tasks, not or had not planned to marry a second time,
but never had an affair, or at least, if one had had had been so wonderful with caution, no one had
heard of it in Villalegre, what which is an extraordinary implausibility, because at that
place had just person, and less even if it was of such importance and sheen as Don Paco, I could
do or say anything not knowing.

Even the thoughts guessed there were disseminated and commented, as the thinker does not think
very openly and very inward. We therefore believe that Don Paco had not had affairs, not to be
very fleeting and lightweight, and that even during her long widowhood, had thought such a thing.

He,
however, remarkable fitness and skill to know and admire female beauty, and made months now,
almost without noticing it, and very unwillingly, when I was chatting
with the clerk and the pharmacist and other gentlemen on the benches
that were near the fountain, were fixed with loving eyes delight in
Juanita, still used to come to fill their jar and be there chatting
with other girls as they took their turn.

Undoubtedly, Don Paco had begun to feel inclined to live Juanita,
it was difficult to master, but he spent considerable time without
outward sign that the felt, longing perhaps hide from himself for
reasons he was given.

Founded in the very modesty that made him into a poor idea of ??his person, was that fifty-three
years, thirty-six more than Juanita, could no longer love to girl, who or scorn their affection
or interest only move to correspond. Thought after Juanita, although in apparent freedom, was heavily
guarded by his mother, and mother and daughter lived with some relief,
it was assumed that, if he had intentions sinful loaning them, but
in any case would give in facie Ecclesiae and bringing the priest
to go.

The idea of ??marriage to Don Paco terrified, and absolutely not because he hated being married
but because her daughter, Dona Ines, inspired him with an endearing affection, mingled with
terror, and because she was so compelling and brave, and would certainly be in a fury of the
underworld if his father give him stepmother, especially so mean position, and if seven grandchildren
she had given him, and I figured I could come yet she persisted in production approach, removing
the hope of inheriting the vineyard, olive grove and the house, and enjoy in his lifetime
not a little of what he was farm with his various arts.

Trembling Don Paco incurring the anger of her daughter, and although it mainly trembling anger, fear
did not stop their evil consequences.

Well he knew that there was no place in a person, or several together, they could replace him
successful in different jobs, but the world was not barren or devoid
of statesmen rustic, which could be sought and brought in from off-site
so that it will replace.

And it also knew that her daughter was a point less than omnipotent, because he had subjugated
two powers, temporal and spiritual.

Father Anselm was a saint and a doctor, and all it said was for him could not help it, a legitimate
corollary of the Gospels and the Epistles.

The father Anselmo would be able to excommunicate whom she commanded. And with regard to the
secular, Dona Ines was most evident that he was subject to his whims and all his crush weight to
who she wanted.

Don Paco, in this mood, reasonably motivated, although we do not deny that He was sweet, peaceful
and somewhat weak of character, imagination ahead in future cases and presupposes love with Juanita,
declared and accepted, I saw a crowd of evils angry heart out Dona Ines as new Pandora's box.

So
heavy in his mind these considerations that, noticing that his love was hidden growing, tried,
or rather intended to flee from the sight of Jane, do not pass down your street not to see
on the site or looking out the window, and not go to the gathering
of the sill, under poplars not have to admire it when talking with
others or with the lads zagalones the source of the ejido, or when
going up or down gracefully, with the pot resting on the hip Cuestecilla
by extending from the source to the site.

Despite his cautious withdrawal purposes, a force, apparently over his will sometimes led him
to jump ahead of Juanita's house more than was necessary, go to church
when he knew it was going to church with his mother or his devotions,
and go to the gathering of the sill almost every evening.

For Juanita, who had spent all day sewing and embroidering at home, was a pretext solace or walking
about at night going to the source water. His mother was in the position something lordly,
dignified and well off and figured it found, and addressed the development Juanita physicist,
who had come to transform into a gorgeous little boy and real girl, was not well and was given very
little tone going to the source water as the most plebeian pelafustana humble. But Jane was
amused by this exercise, and had an indomitable will. In the comments her mother made her
ears was a merchant, stroking her mother to overcome their opposition
and frustrate their disgust, and kept going to the source in spite
of all observations.

VII

One afternoon in May, Juanita entertained at the source in a long and lively conversation with
other girls.

Dark and filled up with her pitcher on the hill, which at that time I was alone.

The gathering of the sill used in spring and summer, take up the spirits,
time The pundits were leaving for dinner and bedtime.

One day Don Paco had been making efforts or, as it were, exercise
his will not to go to socialize and see Juanita. The struggle between
his will and inclination reasonable had lasted long enough. Finally,
the will was submitted, albeit late, to the gathering of sill the
whole person of Don Paco.

The sting happened was that by lowering
Juanita Don Paco go up, as stated above