 Love dominant,
selfish! Because, those pleasures, that you enjoyed, that made him lay down other higher, due
to her panic! ... She was also flesh and blood, and to be with you felt powerless to resist
the passion demanding: after, alone with his own consciousness, urgent voice heard! All the latter
part of his diary is full of the idea death. Do you wonder that, looking at a dead end, put
that idea in practice?

- I said, I wrote, but at the time of executing the act, the idea of ??God must stop his hand.

-
The idea of ??God's hand stopped many times, but there came a time
of intolerable pain, and died!

- "Without me a word?

She knew that I had returned to life, would it have destroyed Knock out the effect of his teachings?
You say that killing, wanted to evade evil, but do you think that
in doing so has done well?

The judge in turn was left unanswered, and candle plant, realizing
that he had finally obtained an advantage in that struggle, he continued:

-
She thought and wrote that in some cases you can escape life without
deserving reproach; death but may be he is alone, not that which oversees
another.

Can not you just read his words? "There are some serious love: every lover is not only responsible
for their own actions but also those to which drives her lover.

"And she would have given the example of death ... I believe in the beauty of your soul I do
not think otherwise. And the certainty that I have not been killed, it enhances my worship.

-
So the duty not to let a man she had married the heart, was a pretext?

- Not really had married him.

- Nothing meant then that bond, because the law had not punished?

- Do you believe in the goodness of human laws, in its perfection?

Do you believe that salvation is to observe faithfully?

- Do you doubt?

And those are the principles that you spread your books? What professing those principles you
have so much dislike the nihilist? Do not you know you deniers, Pessimists are the teachers, the instigators
of all those bold spirits who abstract speculations are not enough, but they translate into
action, of course, the reasoning you preach?

- I do not deny the laws: I'm saying is that they do not resolve the difficulties within which
we are condemned to move, the wave and nothing more. And though he had been legally attached to
this man ...

- Would you have had the right to seduce her, to take it off?

Could she have missed his word?

- You can not swear an eternal love ...

- And you swore to her?

-
You can not love who does not love.

- Would you say the same if you
were the left?

And as to the strong case the young man remained silent and confused,
the judge said in different tone:

- Ah!

We are not as far as you probably think, the object of our research! These ideas, the contrast of
illusion with reality, the struggle of duty with pleasure wounded the unfortunate death, making it
difficult to see and feel how life is. Who wanted to leave it is too obvious. Lack only show
that really put into practice its purpose. There is no direct evidence, but all presumptions are
against you. Think you coldly if able, the amount of circumstances that lie ahead, and you'll see that
I have reason to think so. You have reported to the two people who were home at the time of death,
but is against what the two need to address suspicions and investigations? It would be time to decide!
Prince Is Responsible? And why he would have died to unhappy? Why jealous? But first and foremost,
you must remember that this man, who does not give you have other powers than those of hate
and evil, had turned to love and suffering Countess knowing that he had lost his affection. But
the Countess was because of you? Passion was for you had for her. Would leave Príncipe e leave
with you? No, quite the opposite! Up declaring the last minute tied the other, refuses to listen
to you, you plot to leave it! With great difficulty, after insisting earnestly, you will start
to permit hope: hope ambiguous, uncertain, distant, can you leave to take for not received,
she could not deny, but commits to nothing. Given the nature of Countess, the seriousness of
his scruples, the sincerity of his remorse, we believe that as soon as you left, she again
began to accuse, to prohibit the keeping of hope just grant and accept. In this situation,
what reason was the Prince to kill? Still loved her, or if you please, was jealous, jealous was
brutal those jealous mean offense to ownership and nothing more. But what could accuse? There
have been delivered to you! News had to make sure that slightest effort to prove his good, a word
of love, a kind word, would prevented the Countess out of you. I believe that there is jealousy,
which is not hate, what makes you dismiss both the man, I admit I do not have good feelings
place in the Prince and that, in reality, it is capable of a common crime. But the malignancy
more brutal has nevertheless need a pretext if not reason to arm and hurt. And I see no reasons
or excuses here. You probably assumed that, after having you agreed to work with such consent
as ambiguous, was his friend to provoke Zakunine, to suddenly declare that he loved you? No doubt
that without it between your will, self-esteem suggests that reasoning: that is logical. But If
the Countess had wanted delivered to the inclination I felt for you, no one would have stopped
when Zakunine was away. And right now, are really needed to take leave this man? If the disability
had come from him, she might have to rebel and challenge; but did not come from him but herself,
her inner consciousness. Therefore, the hypothesis is absurd. Now, would you have been the
nihilist? This would have died at the Countess because she loved the Prince and was jealous
of her rival. But in this case, no difficulties are less than the other: on the contrary! First
of all, would show that the two Russians are lover and beloved, which both deny, then, although it
proved, for that Natzichet kill the Condesa needed it outside an obstacle for love. In what way
was it? Could, perhaps, the unfortunate, nor how to prevent the Prince to leave with other women?
How was this unfortunate shadow on the nihilist? Did not they have the two Russians free to
stay together in Zurich? And if you can not rationally allocate murder the one or the other,
can we assume that they have made together? Absurdity would double! Then, if the friend you had
not had reason to flee the life, we would if host the suspected murder narrowly founded that
outside as it is. But the reasons are having driven to suicide, not only missing, but abound.
You have, however, an argument on your part, you just ...

Ferpierre paused a moment to breathe. Roberto candle plant remained in the same position that from
the beginning I had heard, head bowed, hands tightly clenched, and who hopes a fatal blow.

-
There are hundreds and thousands of women in the position of the Countess d'Arda, in his scruples
and the temptations of passion, not go so far as to commit suicide. Expected, and over time fit
to a life unbearable thought for a moment: compromise with his scruples; found in the example
of others an excuse and confidence in the future redemption.

Such is the behavior of all, almost all. You have well defined from the outset, the importance
for this reason. But to believe that, to argue that the Countess has not even wanted to kill himself
after their final explanation with you, at the sight of evil inevitable,
you have to admit that his friend, that this woman, whose greatness
of soul prefers you and I really created by these confessions, the
statements of people who knew her, you have Admittedly, I say, instead
of resisting to the last, was also capable, like the others, of these
comfortable transactions that we witness everyday.

It is good that he is killed not prove to have a warm soul, and shows an absolute faith, but if,
for work you the poor woman was found unable to adopt a third party, I believe that both chose
the least bad. And do not you think it strange that I should hold against yourself, the strength
of conscience of this woman, the delicacy of his honor? ...

Rose candle plant, and passing his hand across his forehead, said, defeated, lost: - Do not
say that! ... Yes, indeed ... You are right ... You may be right ... But do not say, not again!
... Because then, is that I, I myself have died! ... Dead for me! ... For me! ... Look here ... this
idea, this suspicion has broken my heart. I feel like I go crazy!

VI

RESEARCH

When the judge was left alone, the confidence that had sustained left
him suddenly.

Candle plant resistance had stung, suggesting arguments whose force against charge you looked great,
but at last, seeing that the other agreed with him, instead of asserting in his opinion, turned
to doubt. The reconstruction of the drama was credible, but nobody could statements that were true,
and as to the possibility of murder, was in fact unsustainable? Having developed one of the
two hypotheses, it should examine the other and this task was prepared,
with a growing antipathy toward the accused.

Moved by the pain of candle plant, keen interest by the deceased,
more than ever distrustful of the Russians.

The day following the interrogation of the young, was, along with several packets of letters,
Nice and Zurich abducted, the information requested to the chief of police department and the Russian
legation in Bern, about two nihilists. What is already known about the nature Prince Alexis
Petrovich was confirmed and documented by extensive and detailed reports from both sources,
full of statements made in previous political processes. But also learned things I had never
suspected.

Heir to the genius of the Slavic race, moved by feelings too impetuous and neighbors of the primitive
instincts, Zakunine suffered, moreover, that hysteria which, according to science modern nerve
disease has been found, is not only a painful privilege female. Truly amazing things related
of the Prince, his tumultuous youth. Fatherless, hatred since childhood had been the second husband
of her mother had turned into homicidal mania. Constantly beaten cruelly punished with a savagery
that far exceeded the severity merited by their sins, your character
had soured.

One day - have not had more than ten years - walking with a comrade of the same age, approaching
a railway station. The friend had told him that keeps travel lines the path of the rails that
are responsible for monitoring, to ensure that no obstacle threatened the safety of the train,
then he took advantage of a time when your partner does not I watched him, and no more mobile
than a perverse curiosity of evil, had put on the rails two large stones, and had stayed around
till the train came to judge the spectacle of the disaster.

The rocks were quite large, but, fortunately, very resistant, and the wheels of the machine
reduced them to dust without departing point. In separate occasion, Some years later, the insanity
of that being cold was manifested in another way, against itself. Went about their possessions
in Little Russia, and a boy, the son of a peasant, who served as a guide, was explaining the
qualities of trees and herbs as they passed a green bush, the boy pointed to a small plant with
long leaves and hairy, and he said: "This is Bethlehem, a terrible poison." Then, quickly, without
giving his time guide to approach him, not to prevent the act, pulled few pages could hold his hand and
ate it. The guide had deceived the henbane plant was not, but for a whole day, they had all Alejo
Zakunine believed poisoned, and were among admired and amazed to see the ironic joy with which
he awaited death, and rebuked those who showed distress.

His entire youth was a storm. Without money, the devil had taken Game by the hair, one night
after losing a sum that could not pay, had fired a pistol shot in the heart, not surviving their
shame, the bullet, straying, he had broken the humerus. As a matter underhand had a duel, and had
not wanted reconciled with his adversary, but later had saved him from death, with risk his life,
heroically.

To eighteen years had been impossible to do learn anything, or persuade him consider a single
lesson, but once ashamed to speak French woman, a girl, believing that language expert had
changed his life overnight, during two or three years, no one saw him again: delivered to the studio
with the same energy he devoted to bad, he quickly recovered the lost time.

Nothing was difficult for smooth and sharp intelligence.

His will was capable of acts of firmness railroad, relentless perseverance, but it always
remained the same, with the abduction of tenacious effort alternated frequent crises of nervous,
sickly relaxation. This side of his moral constitution was less known for the kind of jealous that
put shame to hide their weaknesses. However, he had seen mourn.

Cold and hard with their peers, loved animals with human affection. Passionate hunting, his dogs
were his friends, talked with them, kissed them, looked straight in the eyes, as if to penetrate
their dark soul gross. Faced with those tiny beings became humble served them personally, is unaware
of himself for taking care of them not missing nothing, and if any of them got sick, did not give
a moment's rest.

One of his dogs died with his head resting on his knees, looking up to the last moment with
his eyes dull and sad, and when he was already stiff, when he felt cold and lifeless body before
vibrating under his touch, when he had understood the mystery of death, crying, a mute and copious
tears spilled from her eyes. With females was not as loving as with males: the lashes discharged
his hand in moments of anger, fell only over them, but one day cease to provide the difference,
seeing a dog, after having given birth to many suffering half a dozen puppies, got sick, but
not consented, in which the removed children and howled so piteously, that, finally, is the
returned, and died with all his offspring turned on the chest.

In the company of the women had fled as instinctively, since childhood, but at twenty years, killed
his mother, who owns a vast fortune, came at once, with transformation sudden, the solitary
life of the country, where violent exercises alternated with mortifications of the study,
to be delivered cold and almost studiously to the elegant and unhealthy pleasures of the city.
It dispelled a lot of money and a lot of nervous energy: its constitution
and unbalanced is exhausted.

Love, the first love of my soul, it inspired the daughter of Prince Arkof. The effect of moral
anachronism in that nature than others, did not need to impress loved with an affection young,
naive and shy when for any another man had already passed the time of that love. His teenage
years were lonely and savage poetic been visited by ghosts, but by those laws of balance and compensation
seem to extend its empire in the world of matter to the spirit world, the poetry of the heart,
whereby seemed to subtracted, seized him when he was just immersed in the most prosaic and base
loves. And shame had driven a time to banish from his mind the limbo of ignorance, moral confusion
subjugated his soul.

From one day to another and for a brief time there, no one recognized in him the same man and
he left unworthy companies after vile entertainment, for a reaction that was not have foreseen, not
live but dreams of pure contemplation, in silent adoration and unobtrusive; all that's not encouraged
other purpose than to be worthy of being loved by a exemplary life.

The charm and the spell was broken again to work on it when the tyranny of parents of Princess Catherine
made it to marry the Borischof general, governor of Kiev. The impetus wild, violent convulsions,
then returned to assault him, but something strange! not immediately seized his soul, whose capacity
could be proved sentimental and measured by this, he knew restrained and resigned to the idea
that his wife's heart was in the arms of another.

As I hardly talked and ignored her feelings, having content to pine for her from afar, he thought,
seeing her accept the general's hand, which I loved him, that he would be happy with it. And
bleeding heart, consumed with grief, fell, withdrew in order not to be an obstacle to her happiness,
but when he learned that his successful rival not worth the fortune he had reached, that not
only was not happy, but insulted, abused and mortified at being who he would have wanted to
save, not only pain, but even uncomfortable idea, a furor that was anger, remorse and contempt,
threw him to the field of nihilists who were preparing to kill the terrible governor. Discovered
the conspiracy, his rank and above range, the reason entirely moral guiding him, saved him cruel
punishment inflicted on his companions, but that policy, which had been indifferent until that
day, it suddenly ignited.

In the frequency of the revolutionaries during the preparation of the plot had failed, dominated
as it was by another idea, to lie in the arming reasons: love freedom, hatred of tyranny, the thirst
for justice, the ideal of brotherhood were incomprehensible for the love avenger, but when
arrested and prosecuted, he met the brutal treatment police, judges unconsciousness, the heroism
of the conspirators, when he was banished of the country, when observed,
traveling the world, with a heavy heart, the painful contrast proud
of the greatness and miseries incurable suddenly wore a new ideal
before their eyes: the human redemption.

But, as expected, not that time has kept restraint. In France, the Netherlands, Germany, in England
he sought the party bosses and anarchist nihilist, as he could from his forces and all their
personal activity to propaganda, mixed into new conspiracies that effects were bloody, and was again
convicted and sentenced to death. With incredible recklessness returned several times to Russia in
secret to see their co-religionists, to encourage and direct: in danger of falling into the
hands of justice, was miraculously saved, and continued after plotting
abroad, always dreaming and preparing the social cataclysm had to
open the doors of his country and regenerated.

Viva Print Ferpierre occurred in the judge's reading of these documents.