 So
much for politics. As for your marriage, I will not deny you're right women want to own one
with the garments of which you speak, but why do not you look? Has it happened to pass before your
eyes? Did you open your mind to yours and has show that deserves to enter into intimate communion
with him, without you even take the job to knock on the door? Are you going to find anything
that treasure you need among the adventurous gallant with the ladies, among whom married bad
fall in love?

- Mother, I now intend to fall in love or any adventure, any gallant
lady, to any unhappily married.

If you have such news, you are misinformed.

- Well then, why do not you go to your cousin Adela? It seems that
the sky goes for you.

It's so good, it's so quiet in the midst of his innocence! Speaking in confidence ... believe
it very likely to fall in love with you. I'm sure you would love.

- Mother's love maybe blind you, but although it tend to love, how
I I send my heart to love you?

I do not love, without love I will not marry any woman.

- You love, I know, which can not be your wife, for that is another
- he finally said the Countess, can not suffer further transgressions
of his child.

- I've told you I do not love any woman now married.

-
I heard you are in relationship with the wife of a clerk in the Treasury,
with a adventurer who goes home to the Countess of San Teódulo.

-
Mother, who may have told lies.

Neither I am in relations with that woman or that woman is an adventurer. Caro would cost any
man who dared to qualify such in my presence.

- You yourself tell what. The vehemence with which the test defend me even more than love. Such
Once the woman has bewitched. The thing is worse than I suspected. It is not a fad, it is a
passion.

- If the respect and friendship are passions, I'm passionate about it, I confess. As same, my
mother, I beseech you that belies my love affair with this woman, and does not contribute to defame
and make perhaps the unhappiness of her husband, who is an excellent man. If the unfortunate
were to know what, so in spite of myself and so without foundation,
tells us slander, would die of grief.

Do not ever allow heaven!

The Countess did not dare to continue the conversation, seeing how excited her son was setting
and the vehemence with which he spoke in favor of Dona Beatriz.

There in the depths of his soul, the Countess was grieved much, imagining that his son had no relations
vulgar, immoral pastime, but without consequences, but a vivid passion.

Also thought that the occasion was less favorable than ever to induce
his son to devoted to politics and his cousin, Adela, and very upset,
took another twist to the conversation, waiting for better days.

XV
The conversation he had with his mother put the Count in a bad mood
Alhedín against foul-mouthed, insolent gossip that were being disseminated
all over his affair with Donna Beatriz, but why not in future be sought
more cautious and looked to avoid giving occasion and those foundations
gossip