 

As you can guess, a movement of this kind could not be within the limits what was formerly
known as Lilliput. Blefuscu women sent a commission for air to ask of her sisters who were victorious
slavery to freedom of forty centuries. Half a dozen aircraft and a flying squad were sufficient for
the neighboring kingdom will be held by women, killing their king and leading dignitaries.

In
short: Just a week so that in all countries women triumphed, leaving
servility men who had done well to our sex for thousands of years.

That was what we agreed to call the True Revolution, so different in their results to the
revolutions made by men.

But the death of male tyranny was not enough.

Had to organize and govern new existence in the world, and this we did much better and faster
than when gathered men their useless League of Nations to end all wars.

As there were no explosive weapons, and which had escaped destruction were useless thanks to the
"black beams" was not playing hard to avoid extermination human. As there was no army of men, it
was impossible to resurrect the war.

I forgot to say that the sea was the same as in the cities. Planes Committee, with its fearsome
black light jets, removed all inserts artillery islands by men. Were flown just a few of those colossal
ships, crews others fled, leaving them stranded in ports. Some floated lost in the sea, for
sailors, at the sight of one of the airplanes feminine, the water poured boats, fleeing the
ship, which was to them a nearby volcano to erupt. The submarines also rushed to make the ports, throwing
all his people. Feared to the "black beams", able to find them at greater depths.

In a word, gentleman, over the army and navy men in all nations of our race. Many died trying
to resistance, and the survivors were terrified after a defeat so unexpected and complete.

The superiority of our sex was evident when the confiscation women, according with women from
other countries, ordered the opening of an Assembly to regulate victory. Never seen a political
meeting in the talk less and adopt agreements practical faster.

The men, who during his long tyranny always dominate speakers stopped believing a good word
man does it all and knows all, have fun cynicism of women in many cases, ensuring that we are talkative.

And
yet, our revolution was done without speeches.

Only after some years past oratory has been reborn in this country.

The first thing women was agreed to delete the nations with all its patriotic fetish provocative of war.
Liliput there was no or Blefuscu or any State to observe their old names and differences. All
federated into one body, which took the title of United States of Happiness. The capital of
this confederacy was truly peaceful Mildendo, having it match the liberation movement, but was
stripped of its name, dating of ancient emperors, so called hereinafter "Paradise City Women.

After
the influence of men, decreased social discontent and lost its strength
threatening the theories on the abolition of the property, the new
distribution of wealth and other utopias.

The woman is deeply conservative and loves the property and order. She has been that, in spite
of his role, kept the man on the reason for thousands of years and prevented him from doing
irreparable follies. Without it there would have been able to survive in society. The man is
so vain and pretentious, which runs just nonsense to remedy what maybe not fix it, try putting
it into practice, he considers him to be infallible, and feel capable of setting fire to the whole
world to change to succeed his pride of authorship.

When women rule, solved by sentimentality and the instinct that men
had failed to fix never using his reason.

Most of the social problems resolved simply by eliminating envy. But refrain from entering into
details and return to what they did the first organizers of the True Revolution.

This Assembly, which created a new world, he realized that his work
was to consolidate future generations must ignore the past.

Everything referred to the period thousands and thousands of years during which dominated the
men was deleted. Destroyed books, newspapers, monuments, all I could do to the male suspect the future
despotic authority exercised by their predecessors. Only libraries universities retain the works
of those times, but only allowed to read the teachers of unquestionable loyalty that is dedicated
to the study of history.

In addition, all had been considered heroes and VIPs during the domination
Men were sent to remote islands, and died obscurely, like Eulame.

Were held by women schools and universities, and only gave them an instruction according to government
orders. If you could talk to girls who attend our educational institutions, be convinced that they
have no reason to suspect how was the world before the revolution. Believe that females have
always governed and that men are a weaker sex and shy, needing to protect him. You speak our language,
the government had commissioned me to tell him the nation's history or I would have dared to reveal,
in spite of the sympathy with which he looked. Think about it I am communicating state secrets
and can be paid unwise life. We themselves, teachers, only we dare to speak given these events
using English for be certain that no curious can understand.

I confess that the Revolution caused many casualties and still today
gives maintenance reforms requires certain precautions that may seem
small humanitarian, but what benefits brought us!

... Fifty years ago that govern women, and has not been a single war no trace of reason capable
of provoking in the future. We deleted the two calamities aroused by the brutality of men,
war and alcohol. Our governments will happen causing fights da word only: without bloodshed
and without speed crashes. Never was so well-managed public wealth.

Good conditions for savings and had to learn modesty of women for leadership the home during
the time of slavery now employs in government.

United States of happiness are given as a house where the disorder is not known or waste. Everything
is going with a strict economy, and yet our country is not without comfort and of opulence. We
only accept women as leaders who know how to perform the same miracle who performed at certain times
of male despotism which gave wives to their husbands little money and yet maintained their
home with a look of abundance and joy.

No country, during the long centuries of male tyranny, could boast
as we give not in fifty years have had a single ruler or a single
employee who was a thief.

All directed at women: schools, factories, fields, ships, machine and flying terrestrial locomotion,
and life is sweeter, more peaceful than before. This shows the injustice with which the woman
was looking ominous in those days of tyranny mannish, when considered suitable only for managing
a small house and care for children. The man now under these secondary functions.

I recognize, gentleman, that our victory was not quite generous. When you have a enslavement of
thousands of years, bad memory and revenge are inevitable.

Today women have become accustomed to its dominant position, and the intimate love and life
at home make them look a protective affection to the men of her family. But in the early years after
the real revolution, the men went wrong. The authority had to intervene many times to advise
caution and tolerance to certain Amazons, who, remembering the bad treatment suffered in the
past, gave every night beating their husbands.

Spirits are still among us conservatives and traditionalists who keep
hatred the old implacable tyrant.

These are usually women intellectuals, who dedicated to mental work and feeling purely idealistic
ambitions have not had time to think about love and stay in laborious celibacy.

I have lived too well, gentleman, but do not think I have followed
their customs.

These masculinófobas are known on the street and elsewhere by the tenacity with which show their
hatred of men. Someday you will Golbasto, our poet laureate, the woman who sang it better the
triumph of the revolution.

It is the only person who admires Momar and respects our Father of the Masters.

The Executive Board gave him a rolling machine that is shaped like an eagle with a lira in the grip,
but she has kept this tribute of national gratitude, and prefers keep going to all parts, like
other old ladies of his time, in a light cart drawn by three men
who are at your service, and whom he frequently touches with the whip
.... What do you, gentleman?

Guess on his face for a while you want to ask me a question ....

Gillespie said with a nod that it was, and seeing that the teacher
Flimnap put your elbows on your table and forehead in his hands to
listen, it was decided to discontinue an interesting lesson.

- Talk
to you, dear Professor, that women are everything in this country
and monopolize functions and work, but I've seen since I got involved
athletic men in most operations.

Do we not men?

- What are - Flimnap answered - but a well organized society like
ours could not allow that women, far more intelligent than men, loaded
with heavy work and annoying, while the sex up living in the comfort
and softness.

Is tolerable not employed men living in the home detention as wives and daughters and show gently
in need of protection, but we found it necessary to use the strength of all athletic and abusive
men to handle dangerous machinery to carry heavy objects, in short, for functions that require
muscle do not need intelligence.

In addition, we reveal that all these strong men are descendants of the military and male characters
who monopolized power before the Revolution. They now live apart, forming a special breed,
and why not say it, are subject to slavery, and only death can free
them from it.

Do not do it for revenge, but out of necessity and convenience. I told our revolution (Similar
in this to all the revolutions of the men) had to rely on certain
anti-human resources, which benefit most.

The breed of losers playing vigorous at an alarming rate, as everything that belongs to an inferior
gender. Do not think that we instills fear. Our science has found a way to remove memory to
these men and ambition. The children are more stupid and more parents strongmen. After some few
generations, these muscle machines, without initiative and will look great.

In our family life has a wholesome fear of the existence of the underclass. The men obey without
question to the wife or mother, for fear of losing the sweets harem
life they carry in their homes.

Tremble that can send them to swell the number of men sleeping inside, the slaves that serve
only to provide forces.

- What about the army? - Said the giant -. Speak you, Professor, that there are no wars or can
any, of the end of the military caste men to lose the enjoyment of
government and since I arrived here I've seen everywhere these girls
to winged helmet and sword his belt, as well as to the others who
crew flying machines.

Flimnap Professor looked at one side to another, as if some indiscreet could understand, to Although
speaking in English. Then he said, lowering his voice a little:

- That he has seen, gentleman, is not an army.

You, you know, as a few of us great destructive power of explosives, how important can give to our
regiments, armed with arrows and spears, as in the reigns of the earliest emperors? ...

But we need to keep this army bit scary, because people, living in peace, want to know that there
is a police force capable of defending them. Must also be taken into account that youth sports need
to consume a portion of its excess of life, consider the military profession as the most fun and graceful
of games.

No army would not know what to do with all those girls of twenty, strong, courageous, healthy,
with a rich blood that burn your skin or swollen muscles. They would walk by loose there, disturbing
the peace of the Republic bother to shy men, inclined modesty and seclusion, and who knows if
would eventually kidnap! ... With the army, Loose these energies are channeled to military glory,
and although there is no such glory, his dream gives us peace of mind. Later, when you come
in years, girls Guard and winged helmet, as you say, are cautious and measured, marry and
form a family. But if you saw what they do in the meantime to their colonels and captains, experts
who have had children and know the requirements of life! ...

At best, the head of a legion note the discomfort of his soldiers. Showing melancholy and pale,
it looks like daydreaming, suck the air as if they bring perfumes and music. This military epidemic
is more prevalent in spring than in the rest of the year.

"Tomorrow, maneuvers," ordered the chief. And the next day take the field the troops to shoot
arrows and throw spears into the air, go very long hours, sleeping rough on the hard ground, passing
rivers to swim, eat poorly, and finally, all this beautiful youth becomes overwhelmed tired,
but healthy thought and cured for a few months of his restless and
mysterious disease.

We gentleman, maintain an army of moral demands: to not disturb the virtuous abstinence should
save the youth.

- But I - said the giant - I've seen men in that army suit bearded athletes women and large scimitars,
who were on horseback and were led by female officers.

- Right - replied the teacher - but these men do not really belong to the army; rather they
are slaves, as athletes who devote themselves to the tough work force.
Our army is an aristocratic manner of a female, and can not be responsible
for policing, that considers failures of glory.

We needed a police
force that it ensure security of the person, who pursued thieves and
murderers, and we have dedicated to this function man too ordinary