 Under the civilian government was in his own carriage, with the inspector and Manolito
Davalos, who asked him to please it with tears in his eyes. Alvaro Luna, the shell, Nati, Pepe
Ramon Castro and promised to follow immediately and escort the beautiful aggressive in their
odyssey. But the door was Fornos defections. Alvaro stated that he a little sore arm and was
going to cure it. Shells, of course, accompanied him. The Nati Castro and Ramon continued to walk
to the Government. Once there, they held before entering of advice. Ramon had some difficulties.
The councilman was and could not "get in noise ", especially as the Governor's relations with
the city came to be a bit strained. For its part. Castro said curtly that it was all ridiculous.
Naturally, what would be ridiculous to make a man as he there? He also announced that he was sleepy and
this was already amply powerful an argument without the first. Might have the Nati also given
up climbing, but he felt obliged to wait to Rafael.

In a very dirty room waiting for the government and Manolito Amparo Dávalos when Nati joined
them. The manic Marquis was so shaky, so haggard and pale as if weighed on him a terrible
misfortune. His confusion and pain is increased when Amparo ordered to leave. Not advisable
to Salabert seeing him there. He pleaded with the greatest extremes enabling it to await the
end of the adventure, but in vain. Unable to get came after the stay, but was to haunt the
vicinity of the building as a faithful dog. A few moments later, the appeal was taken to the
office of one of the officers, that was ruthlessly, without getting off the couch and speaking
in an authoritative tone that produced great irritation. Bile was stirred in the stomach. Soon it was
this is not shameless whelp, but the fear of jail contained. However, despite his patience,
was not much that was. If they fail at that time the Duke of Rafael Requena and would have been
more than likely.

Salabert came puffing as usual. In that breath should, perhaps, a measure of respect that everywhere
inspired. Only a man with a hundred million pesetas of capital could authorize both snort and
spit. The officer was troubled a little in sight. The banker, with his characteristic insight,
took advantage of this dominance.

- What is it, eh? Dispute girls .... Some shots .... Nothing between two dishes .... This is
arranged in two seconds .... You, little girl to bed .... Tomorrow I'll kiss, the give away
a bracelet .... All fixed, all arranged - began to growl with the
ease which is at home.

The officer only had the courage to murmur:

- Mr Duke, would be happy to oblige ... but my duty ....

- So, Where is Pierrot? Go out there "Perico? - Asked the same despotism.

- The Governor has now retired - said the official.

- As the secretary
.... Where's the secretary?

... Let's see, the secretary.

Condujéronle to his office and was closeted with him.

After a few minutes out his cheeks a little bruised.

The secretary sent the door with a thin grin.

The Amparo is approached and asked:

- Are you fixing the issue?

- For now, yes - the ever-present cigar
biting reply.

- Well, I want to go in your car - he said, lowering
his voice.

The banker's face darkened.

- Too know that can not be.

- What can not be? ... Now you'll see .... Dame arm .... Underway.

And clutching his arm forcefully pushed him down the stairs followed
by Nati and Rafael between the astonished eyes of the officer, the
inspector and the three or four employees who were there at such an
hour.

Once in the street, the beautiful tyrant offered his car to Nati and Rafael, and went without
hesitation the Duke, who followed her taciturn but submissive. Nerves are the old florist broke
and that he was alone with her beloved. The most vulgar words in the repertoire of point the drivers
sprang to his lips trembling. He kicked, he swore, gritted his teeth, uttered a thousand stupid
threats. Finally, taking the banker for the lapel of his coat fur, he said struck by the anger:

-
Of course, these two pigs, the employee and the inspector will be to escape unemployed.

- We will see, see - said the Duke, restless and confused.

- It is already seen. Until his dismissal bring me no show at my house, because you do not receive.

IX

#
The Loves Raymond. #

The new Clementine affair unfolded in a manner so childish as pleasing to it. After that unfortunate
turn of head, which had so embarrassed, she saved But for a few days, looking back, but the
greeting was sent to Raymond increasingly expressive and affectionate.

The fad (not to give a better name, because he did not deserve) casting was, however, so rooted
in his imagination, which ended by back again; next day too, to the
other match, always finding the young twins nailed on it.

Finally, one day turned the corner and made a new waved.

"Come on, I'm the shame," he muttered after blushing. And so true was that since then it happened
again without doing the same.

But that situation, but funny and original, it would seem heavy. His temperament spirited not
allowed to ever enjoy peace of mind, drove her to seek to desire beyond, to precipitate the events,
but often, instead of pleasure desired, is wrapped in the rubble of his fantasy castle was
built. In This time, however, had better reasons than usual to want out of it. It was so fake,
who played on the edge of the ridiculous. Alone with herself used to confess.

"The truth is, all things considered, I'm doing the bear that boy.

I look like a lady the island of San Balandrán. "

But though every day is meant to give a cut out this adventure is not over on foot, or crossing
in front of the house Raymond without looking up, or all over, guiding cold greeting, it is certain
that he had no will power to carry out its purpose. Not even to stop sending the usual goodbye
from the corner. One thing worried her greatly. And the young man, seeing clear signs that
she was of repentance, somewhat humiliating evidence of their sympathy for him, not depart from
obedience, do not ever follow or seek opportunity to meet with her on the trip. This, ultimately,
was irritating his pride. It seemed that the gentleman took the role too love otherwise. Thinking
about it, sometimes going to be angry. But to cross again for before he looked so cheerful, so happy,
with such desire for health, the black ghost of pride faded and fell back into his chest in torrents
sympathy and capricious desire to love and be loved by that child.

What would stop all that?

Probably nothing. However, it was possible that go ahead and curds, no doubt. Seeing paralyzed
his desire for reasons he could not clearly define grew and gradually transformed into rough appetite.
One afternoon, disappointment and bitterness had invaded his chest as he was thinking seriously,
walking by Serrano Street, in completely abandon this ridiculous adventure, passing through under
the gazebo after having greeted the young man felt it fall on a handful
of broken flowers.

He looked up and sent him a warm smile of recognition.

That rain refreshed his soul, revived their faint whim.

Then he began to look with eagerness approaching half again Raymond.

He thought about writing asking for forgiveness of your visit and harsh words, but it was too
late for that.

Then imagine that perhaps among his friends particularly among journalists,
had some who knew him and by which he could send a message of care.

Rejected it as dangerous.

He even went through your head make sign to come down and give an explanation of word, but
do not dare. Was too humiliating.

The accident came to his assistance in resolving the matter at his pleasure, when least expected.
One night they met at the Comedy Theatre. Raymond, who spent the year of mourning I used to
go from time to time, was with her sister in the seats. She was in a box under against them.
They greeted each other warmly, and for a long time there was between the young and beautiful lady
a shooting glances and smiles that caught the attention of extremely Aurelia.

- But what is this? Have you spoken to this lady?

- No.

- So what does such a smile? You seem like close friends.

- I do not know - said the young man a little confusing -. Appears very affectionate with me. May
suppose I was offended when he went to home and want atonement.

In the first interval Aurelia received a beautiful bouquet of camellias
brought a florist.

- On behalf of the lady who is in the box number
eleven.

The girl looked up and saw me looking at her smiling Clementina. The two brothers were the thanks
to strong head. Aurelia was very red.

- Do not you think - said his brother - I rise to thank the lady?

It was natural. Raimundo, when the curtain fell for the second time, left alone briefly and ascended
the stage of the lady. A happy smile lit up the face of it to see the young at the door. He was
received as an old friend told to sit at his side drew with he quiet conversation, leaving completely
abandoned his companion forced Pascuala. Fortunately for this not long in coming Bonifacio,
who never took no chair when the family knew Osorio was in a theater box.

- I welcome you keep me not grudge - quietly told him a long look insinuating -. You do well.
That proves that you have heart and talent. Le I confess with all candor that I was wrong
from medium to medium in the assessment of their behavior and himself. It's so true than when
I left home I would gladly become to ask you for forgiveness .... If not in words, eyes and gestures
you should understand I have asked that after many times ....

He still got another three or four passes over, true teacher, who
arranged Raimundo head the poor, that is, left him immobile, confused,
fascinated, as she wanted, in short.

At the same time those skills explained a bit of sympathy alien whose memory was ashamed.

Without giving him time to recover interest he asked his sister, for their lives, their butterflies.
Raimundo answered their questions with more than enough brevity, not cold, but for their lack
of world.

But she was not disconcerted. Still loving increasingly wrapping
in a network of small words and tender looks flattering.

The more embedded and can even be said was excited regained his youthful
admirer, here shown in the hall Pepe Castro on the seats, properly
dressed in tails, the tips of his mustache stickers, fine needles,
loops of hair coquettishly glued to his temples, the air loose manly,
dismissive.

He poured his fascinating look first, Olympic, for the seats, leaving trembling and subjugated
all the marriageable girls that roamed around scattered, then with
serene start as the flight of an eagle, Alzola to stage eleven.

Could not suppress a movement of surprise.

Clementina Who spoke so intimately? I did not know that young. He led his tiny twins. Nothing,
he had ever seen. Clementina, who warned the surprise of her lover, after responding to the
greeting redoubled his kindness Raimundo, turning entirely to him,
bringing her face to speak, making a thousand goodies aimed at drawing
the attention of the noble savage and worry.

I felt a joy evil in it. Castro had come to be indifferent. He directed it for a long time
the Raimundo twins in a flippant and even provocative. Our young man paid some looks innocent
curiosity, because I had the honor of knowing the terror of husbands.

Realizing that his sister would be impatient, even from the stage not lost sight rose from
his chair to leave.

- We'll be friends right? - Said the beautiful lady holding him by the hand -. Many memories
his little sister. I need to produce a feeling of this sudden and strange visit, and the give.
Tell it to one of these days I'll be surprised in the midst of housework .... You interest me
very much, so young brother and sister living alone .... Goodbye, Alcazar: I said.

When the box got a bit dizzy and sat back down next to Aurelia, said this:

- How beautiful is this woman! ... But I still believe it does not look like mom.

Raymond, who did not remember at the time of such like, he felt a slight shudder and stammered:

-
Well, I find a certain air ....

Now it was just air. The boy began to feel remorse. The impression Clementina caused him was not
very respectful devotion before being locked in singular way with her knowledge.

Pepe Castro, so I saw in the seats, and began staring at him with no doubt trying analyzed. Since
that boy blonde did not belong to the high society he frequented, pasósele by the imagination
(because they had imagination and all), which could well be the same tracker who had complained
both formerly Clementine. As Naturally, this suspicion is excited him more sympathetically
at him. Raymond was so attentive to contemplate the box of Madame de Osorio, who did not notice
the provocative insistence Tenorio. This, tired at last, rose to greet his beloved. He sat
beside her, in the same position that a moment before had been Raimundo,
who saw him in this way felt strange uneasiness, a vague sadness did
not try to define. However, it noted that lady was very cheerful and
gallant gentleman seriously, and that she could not wait to take frequent
glances to the seats, which put the other sulking increasingly and
gloomy.

- Have you noticed how you look at that lady? - Aurelia asked
his brother -. It seems as if liked.

- What nonsense! he said blushing
-. What a good boy to me! If the gentleman next to it now ....

Aurelia
protested laughing. No, his brother was better looking than that soldier
chrome rosettes on the cheeks as the dancers.

When he finished the
performance, Ray could see, not without some feeling of jealousy,
Clementina waiting in the lobby your Land in the company of the same
gentleman. Saluted it With such affection, that Castro, increasingly
restless, again addressed a long and intense look analysis.

On the
space of a few days the young entomologist Clementina waited anxiously
tarried at the door of his house and go up to the promise. Their hopes
were dashed. The lady was crossing as always with live pasito often
affectionately greeted him first and from the corner back to make
the proverbial good-bye. Each time you saved the door Rayford's heart
shrank, it became a bad mood. "Wow, you've forgotten, he said to himself:
I will say no more with it, as happened not join us again somewhere. 