 

The girls who used to fetch water at the source of the ejido, and drovers, shepherds and swineherds
who came to get water to livestock, considering that since Juanita stopped going there was Mrs.
tone, and neither dared not say hello.

Overnight, or until the fires ended, which was already close to a mother and daughter remained in
the plaza, and would have been no other companion Don Paco, if Mr.
Spencer, school teacher, had not joined them too.

Mr. Spencer was a bachelor of over sixty years, frail, thin and small body but smart and sweet
character.

Since I was six years old Juanita Don Pascual, captivated by its clearance
and its resiliency, was pains to teach him to read and write, some
bills and other basic skills.

Juanita had been a schoolteacher in a constant fan and useful, because
it was for her, in the absence of governess, ayo free and zealous.

She, however, was much honor to his master, then taking their lessons in leisure hours and
when the school was empty of kids, came out as advantageous disciple,
who embarrassed almost everyone who attended school.

No one knew better than she does the Catechism of Ripalda and the Epitome of grammar. Nobody
knew four rules better.

Juanita had also learned some geography and history, and now, when
he was nine years, gracefully recited several ancient romances and
not a few tales of Samaniego.

Time was that Mr. Spencer did not visit or his mother Juanita.

First, the frequent visits he had been frightened Antonuelo.

Then he retreated over go home with the two Johns to know that both Don Paco frequented. Perhaps
accounted approval of the master and Don Paco Antonuelo sufficient
in that house, and if he would be of odd and would be a hindrance.

That night passed by chance near Juanita Don Pasquale, and this is addressed him saying:

- Good evening, master. What have we done to you, how expensive is
sold and we have so forgotten?

There were so many friendly blandishments of the girl, the concern that he could nuisance is being
completely erased Magin and accompanied the two women throughout the evening, being the fourth
character of the group.

And walked four, and sat on stone benches in the square.

Always were or were in between the two women, and alternate back and forth, both suitors.

They wanted to present him with sweets, but neither consented waste
size.

For Don Paco did not take a snub, he left Jane to buy him a handful
of peanuts and popcorn, which he began in his pocket and he was eating.

Juanita, who liked the chestnuts, as Virgil Amarilis, agreed to buy him an Easter gift quadroon of
pilongas, also went without a finicky eating.

To Don Pascual needed was one she gave with finesse, because as Mr. Spencer did not teeth could
not chew or chew and had an hour and half in the mouth, trying in vain to soften it, and remembering
that no doubt why, as well as their cheapness, are called chestnuts candy pilongas cadet. Pleasantly
spent, then, the evening, and were among the most enjoyed it, sparing the fires with which the evening
ended, and they were splendid.

The leading men, and about one o'clock, both accompanied John to the
door of his house.

Each owl to their olive trees, as they say. Everybody in the place went to bed and tried sleeping
deeply and quickly, so be ready and well perceive, very early for the great parties that there
should be the next day.

XV

Since the dawn began to be solemnized on August 4 ringing so loud in general bells.

Crowd of people, both the villa and not a few places around, roads are public came to the square
where the fair was like the night before, or in crowded the road where the procession had to
go, leaving the church of Santo Domingo, was the parish, and re-enter it after giving gentle
stroll through the streets main. These had been well swept and then carpeted and gayomba sedge.
Waiting see the procession were many people in the doors, windows and balconies, earrings
of gates and railings which looked gorgeous red damask hangings, green and yellow or printed
cotton quilt with huge datura and candid curly fringed ruffled.

The gala was the entire population. Men, clean shaven, as were open yesterday the barber and
shave shaving until well given the twelve. The most important and wealthy gentlemen, those who
received the treatment of gift, were in a frock coat and beaver,
even with two or three fractions, the scribe among them.

Day laborers clean shirt in their best clothes, if they were young people were in body, but
with snitch or long rod of quince, olive, ash, and if they were and adults, with coat to the appropriate
decorum, because there the layer suit label, which can not be ignored,
although they swelter or melt the human lineage as was then the case
because the sun was Chiribitos.

Women of all social classes had taken their rags of Christians to adorn that day. None was bareheaded.
All, they had no blanket, wearing shawls lightweight wool or tissues
they called there seáticos, or calico lustrosísimo that imitation
silk.

The wealthy ladies, and Draft, wore black suits and dark taffeta, Malaga twill or Alepin or
cubic, and the Misses, her daughters were in costumes muslin or other fabric and steamy air,
but without any head covering, sometimes embroidered tulle Catalan blonde prays or Manchego.
About pulidez and grooming of hair, and as bush walk upright tower shone alongside the tortoiseshell
combs, the ribbons of jasmine, the basil and other herbs, and roses and red carnations, yellow,
white and disciplined.

Flowers abounded in Villalegre, thanks to the power of the commons, whose miraculous properties
and we praise and thanks also to other flowing springs, which flow
from rocks immediate foot of the mountain, and several wells and not
a few wells of fresh water, with which watered gardens, planters and
flowerbeds.

From between the bars of the gate was in the best houses were the flowery patios, some of which
the orange trees and acacias lend welcome shade. Plants vines climbed the walls and curtains
were thick on the ground floor windows.

In the center of the courtyard, or cooling the air in a fountain falling burnished red cup jasper,
or Great Pyramid rose pots, forming compact mass of flowers and vegetables.

Dragonflies and butterflies fluttering around restless, and wasps
and bees buzzed looking for honey.

The territory or termination of Villalegre bordering the countryside, where all lands are bread
carry or uncultivated wasteland without gardens, and groves, and vineyards. If something turns
green for those it's just melon fields in the hollows. Everything else is in that season straw
already sown and fallow, and stubble, which burn like tinder and are usually burned for fertilize
the soil. The plants that soar around and give more shade are the pitas. Are more woody and
arborescent thistles and sunflowers. So in households cooked with some animal product, that
not only heat, but perfume, saving on air one or two miles away, so that people can smell long
before to them, and even descry on the horizon their steeples.

Sparrows, goldfinches, swallows and a hundred other species of birds
painted and cheerful go to the countryside at dawn to catch seeds,
grasshoppers and other insects that feed; but all nesting Villalegre
term, and return to him after his excursions to take shelter in their
preserves and dark, drinking in their crystal streams and ditches,
and to rejoice that oasis with chirps, trills and gurgles.

That day was extremely hot, or had not left the birds to roam or had become early, and trilling
and chirping, while cooing doves and pigeons, were saved and music
the patron saint and around and within the same village.

For more adornment and splendor had been erected in her six triumphal arches and lush green foliage.

The
procession left in good order of the church at eight o'clock in the morning. Broke the up the
sacristan and altar boys, who carried the banner, the breadth of the parish and two silver crosses,
on either side of the sleeve. After a lot of wax, that is, many men with candles walked on two
hollow.

Here and there appeared, conducted in litter, up to six images of saints, all multicolored, mud
or wood. The fifth image was that of Santo Domingo. His face, severe and beautiful. On his forehead
shone a star inspired silver-gilt. With his right hand threw the holy blessings. At his feet
was a dog, very well featured, carrying a torch between your teeth,
apparently on, with which, according to the dream of St. Joan of handles,
burned and illustrated the world in love and in knowledge of God.

Then walked the two rows of men with candles burning, and Finally came a beautiful statue of
the Virgin, who was on the horns of the moon, which moon was silver, as well as the crown bearing
the Heavenly Blessed Lady.

It was his blue satin robe, yet he also silver embroidery, which had cost fortune. Virgin had the
left arm, leaning against the heart, a beautiful child Jesus with
the globe, who bore the cross on top.

In his right hand he the scapular of Our Lady of Mount Caramel.

Iban front of the Virgin, with vestments and incense burners, two deacons, who call there jumeones.

In
the middle of the jumeones towered the brother of the guild, with blue silk robe on the coat,
and holding long silver pole. The older brother was none other than Dona Ines's husband and
son of Don Paco, the illustrious Don Alvaro Roldan, one of whose ancestors had paid the image
of the Virgin and St. Dominic, both works Montanes, as it boasted the Villalegre natural.

In pursuit of the Virgin, dressed in rich copes, Anselmo father appeared,
and around it several chaplains, and Indians as outsiders, with rochets
and surplices, loose some of them, and six other Argentine holding
the poles of the magnificent canopy, under which waddled with due
solemnity the aforementioned pastor.

Individuals immediately marched from City Hall with the mayor at the head, which Bengal had been
cuffed and gold tassels.

Secretary, Don Paco, was next to the mayor, with his new frock coat, elegant, and exciting the
envy of other gentlemen whose Levites or fraques were old, outdated, and some quite bare, and
if not with patches and tears, with moth bites, darn sloppy and as such lamps or marinade or
oil stain, no less conspicuous than those noted and condemned the Cid in the habit of the monk Don Bermudo.

The cacique, don Andrés Rubio, shining on the procession by their absence.

Clothed with a bunch of guys, then showed the strongest man in the
place, with Flag of the saint, whose pole was very long.

The flag was made of square pieces Taffeta diverse and vivid colors. And it was the gala that
giants, when he had to this space a lot, because the cloth of the flag had at least four yards square,
flag flutter rotating around parallel to the ground so that the bending boys and even some men
and women were sheltered and blessed by it. This operation fluttering and the shelter was
always accompanied by a precipitate drum roll played for a drummer to some extent church and
consecrated to that need.

No no troops closed the procession really, because the people, have become extinct the militia,
there were no soldiers. There were only two civil guards. However, instead of tragalentejas,
who used to come in the old in a nearby city, the musicians were
City almost always playing and still wearing the uniform of the defunct
military.

Not content with this and considering the place and knowing, more or less confusedly, that patron
saint of the warrior had something, they wanted that was more military pomp, and had the marvelous
idea.

A Roman soldiers out there in the processions Easter put them in the chest crosses and turned
crimson velvet of pursuers Christ's persecutors of heretics of the saint that friends had gotten
into sewing. The Roman soldiers were dressed with great authority, because the town had a saint
born there, which belonged to the holy Theban Legion, and as in the
company of one of its taps, found in the catacombs of Rome came his
image, the suit he wore served as model to those of the Roman soldiers.

As

for the dress of the Jews was so fantastic, it could be worth for
any time but had the disadvantage of being so rich and exquisite,
that only wealthy gentlemen so the people could afford, so they had
few Jews, much less that Roman soldiers; but that did not were subject
at all, but occasionally became entangled in trancazos with the Crusaders,
putting together a very funny mock skirmishes or fights, with which
the people laughed and was like the comic farce or part of the procession.

We

note that these Jewish heretics, so elegant in dress, spent some appalling covers, with huge
noses, sometimes as eggplant bruised and full of warts, because Jews of ancient times were more
ugly than today, but then had the sea of ??money, when they dressed in such luxury.

The devout crowd did not see the procession pass in reverent silence and withered, but with joy and
clamor, bursting into nourished and live sound, including propositions are sometimes heard
naively unorthodox and even a little enthusiastic pure blasphemous, for example: "Long live
our glorious Patriarch, who hump all the demons!" "Long live our patron saint, that dwarfs all other
saints! "

To add to the devotion and jubilation, several young men had guns and shotguns, and no shots
fired bullet or shot, but with a lot of firepower and very crowded
by the cue, so that more rumbling thunder.

In sum, the procession left nothing to be desired. The public was very pleased.

XVI

At ten o'clock High Mass was sung with organ, which is there very good, and not what happens
in bacon and elsewhere in lower Andalusia, where they say that in the absence of organ playing
the guitar in church. From this we do not respond.

It may be a calumny. What we because we've heard tell.

The Virgin was already taking his new dressing room at the high altar, whose altarpiece, all wood
carved and gilt, rose to the top of the apse, and it was whimsical
and daring unleash the Churrigueresque: the complex maze of twisted
stems, huge leaves, fruits, weapons, monsters, symbolic and ceiling,
through which peeped their heads, winged child angels and seraphim.

On
the right, and on another altar, was already well in its niche patron
saint.

Both altars shone with lots of candles and torches burning,
and bouquets of flowers and festoons and garlands of myrtle, laurel
and lemon the deck.

The walls of the temple, while whitening by the
recent spotless enjalbiego, were partly covered with red damask, but
the damask was little, and that was the filipichín it mimics.

On
both sides of the altar of Santo Domingo admired the faithful multitude
of votive offerings, clear testimony miraculous power of his heavenly
counsel. There legs, eyes, arms and even children complete, and several
small panels painted in oil, where the miracle was represented, and
through sign a long walk was explained in writing.

The crowd filled
the temple. In the center, women, kneeling or sitting on the floor,
almost all fanned. The movement of fans of different colors pleases
the eye. Around him were men standing. Occupied only a few seats walnut
lords City Hall and the cacique don Andrés, who came to church, but
not in the procession