 

Every day looked the same: women sewing and singing in the vines, the men in the fields, bent,
eyes on the ground, giving no rest to the active arms; Pimento tending to the great man sticks
to the league, hoping to birds, or helping Pepeta to clumsy and lazy, in the tavern a few old
Cup sunbathing or playing trick. The landscape breathed peace and honest bestiality was a
Moorish Arcadia. But The guild did not trust, no farmer wanted the land or even for free, and
so the masters had to abandon his efforts, allowing it to be covered with weeds and that barrack
is shut down, awaiting the arrival of a man of good will can of shopping or work.

The garden trembled with pride seeing how that wealth was lost and
the heirs of Don Salvador became the "holy."

It was a new and intense pleasure. Ever had to impose the poor and the rich get below. And the
drive seemed more delicious bread, good wine, the lighter work, imagining tantrums of two greedy,
that with all his money had to suffer the rustic orchard fun of them.

In addition, this spot of devastation and misery in the midst of the meadow was used for the
other owners were less demanding and taking example in neighboring leases would not increase and it
took up when the semester to take effect.

The desolate fields were the talisman that kept closely united to the huerta, continuous elbows touch,
a monument proclaiming its power over the owners, the miracle of solidarity of misery against the
laws and the wealth of those who are lords of the land without working
or sweat on their lumps.

All this confused thought, made them believe that the day when the fields were Barret cultivated
the garden would suffer all kinds of misfortune. And do not imagine, after a win ten years,
he could enter another person abandoned fields that Tomba, a blind
pastor and talkative, that in the absence of audience, recounted his
daily exploits guerrilla dirty his flock of sheep.

From here the gasps of amazement and anger expression across the garden when Pimento from field
to field and in barracks hut, was making it known that the land had
Barret and tenant, a stranger, and that 'he' ... "Him!" - Whoever
he was - was there with all his family, settling without hesitation
... 'As if it was yours!

"

III

Batiste, to inspect the uncultivated land, there was said to work
for a long time.

Though this could not feel discouraged.

He was an energetic man, entrepreneur, seasoned to the struggle for win the bread. There he was 'very
long', as he said, and also comforted remembering trances that had seen worse.

His past life was a continual change of profession, always within
the circle of misery rural, moving every year automatically, without
a finding for family well-being mean that was all his aspiration.

When he met his wife, was young mill near Sagunto. Then working "Like a wolf" - he said so -
so that your home is not missing anything, and God rewarded his diligence by sending each year
a son, beautiful creatures that seemed to be born with teeth according to the hurry that arose in
the chest maternal leave to ask for bread at all hours.

Result: they had to leave the mill and devoted to roads, in search
of greater profits.

Bad luck pursued him. No one as he tended the cattle and watch the march. Dead dream, never dared,
as partners, to sleep in the car, leaving the animals march guided
by instinct.

Watched at all hours, was always close to nag front, avoiding the deep potholes and missteps, and
yet, if a truck poured was his, if an animal fell ill because of the rains was surely Batiste in
spite of paternal care with which he rushed to cover the flanks of
the beasts burlap trappings fell just four drops.

In a few years of strenuous pilgrimage along the roads of the province,
eating bad, sleeping in the open and suffering the torment of spending
months on end away from family, that I love with affection reconcentrated
rude and silent man, only experienced Batiste losses and saw their
situation increasingly compromised.

He died trapped hacks and had to buy others. What it worth continuing swollen skins carrying
wine or oil barges lost in the hands of builders and car, until it was time, seeing next ruin,
left the office.

He took some land near Sagunto: dry fields, red and eternally thirsty in which twisted its ancient
carob hollow trees or olive trees raised their powdered round heads.

His life was a continuous battle with drought, a continuing look at
the sky, trembling with emotion whenever a small black cloud looming
on the horizon.

Little rain, the crops were bad for four years, and Batiste did not
know what to do or where to go, when on a trip to Valencia met the
sons of Don Salvador, a great masters (God bless), who gave that beauty
of fields, free lease for two years until they completely regain their
status of other times.

Something he heard what had happened in the cabin, the causes that force the owners so beautiful
to keep unproductive land, but after going so long! ... In addition, misery has no ears, he suited
to the fields, and they left. What mattered old stories of Don Salvador and Barret? ...

Forgot everything despised and contemplating their land. And Batiste felt himself possessed of
a sweet Ecstasy to be fertile orchard grower had so often envied when he passed the road from
Valencia to Sagunto.

That was land, evergreen, with the entrails of a crop breeding tireless
after another, circling the red water at all hours as life-giving
blood for the many ditches and sprinklers that plied its surface as
a complex network of veins and arteries fertile to feed whole families
with tables, so small, they seemed scarves foliage.

Sagunto dry fields recordábalos thirsty as hell, which fortunately had escaped.

Now he was really on track. Business The fields were lost, was there much to do, but when you have
good will ... And stretching, the big man strong, muscular back of a giant, round head and a kindly
face sustained sheared by a thick neck, a monk, extending his powerful arms, lifted her accustomed
to sacks of flour and the heavy skins of the cart.

So concerned was their land, who barely noticed the curious neighbors.

The restless heads poking among cañares or lying on his stomach on
the slopes, Men stared at him, little boys and even women of the barracks
immediately.

Batiste did ignore them. It was the curiosity, expectation always inspire hostile newcomers. He knew
what that was, and would be accustomed. Also, maybe they were interested see how poverty burned
ten years of neglect had heaped upon the fields of Barret.

And helped by his wife and children, began to burn a day after his arrival the whole parasitic vegetation.

Shrubs, after writhing in the flames, embers fell facts, escaping from their nasty bugs charred
ashes.

The hut appeared to be blurred between the clouds smoke of lamps, which aroused anger deaf throughout
the garden.

Once clean the land, Batiste, without wasting time, proceeded to its cultivation. Were harsh; but he,
as an expert farmer, wanted to work slowly, in sections, and setting a box near his hut, he
began to remove the help of his family land.

Neighbors burlábanse them all with an irony that betrayed his irritation.
Go a family!

They were gypsies and those who sleep under bridges. They lived in the old barracks the same
as shipwrecked on a ship wrecked endure: plugging a hole here shoring
up there, doing real wonders that would hold up the thatch, distributing
its poor furniture, carefully fregoteados in all rooms, which were
before burrowing mice and bugs.

In point of time-consuming, were like a herd of squirrels, unable to sit still while the father
worked. Teresa Rosetta women and the eldest daughter, with her skirts gathered between legs and
spade in hand, digging more ardently than a laborer, resting only to turn back by the hair falling
on the red sweaty face.

The eldest son was continuous Valencia travel to the basket on his shoulder, carrying manure and
debris, placed in two piles, like columns of honor, at the entrance of the building. The three
little ones, serious and laborious, as if they understood the plight
of the family, went to all fours after diggers, tearing lumps of hard
burned shrub roots.

This preparatory task lasted more than a week, sweating and panting family from dawn till night.

Half
of the land was removed. Batiste filed and styled with the help of the old and spirited horse,
which seemed to the family.

Had to come to his crop, were in San Martin, the time of sowing and
the farmer cleared land divided into three parts.

The higher in wheat, a smaller frame for beans and other plant for fodder, it was not something
to forget the Morrut, the good old nag.

Well it had won.

And with the joy of that after a laborious navigation discover the
port, the family proceeded to planting.

The future was assured. The lands of the garden did not deceive, hence would bread for the whole
year.

The afternoon saw the planting was completed by the immediate way forward a few sheep of dirty fleece,
fearful that they stopped at the edge of the field.

Behind them came an old parchment, yellow, eyes sunken in the deep
orbits and mouth surrounded by a halo of wrinkles.

Progressed slowly, with steps firm, but with the staff ahead of testing the waters.

The family looked at him intently. Was the only one in the two weeks
that there were dared to approach the land.

Noting the hesitation of his sheep, he shouted for them to go forward.

Batiste

went to meet the old. Could not happen: the lands are now cultivated.

Did not you know? ...

Some of it had heard the old Tomba, but in the past two weeks had led his flock to graze the weeds
in the cliff of Carraixet, without worrying about these fields .... Really now they were grown?

And
the old shepherd moved his head to make efforts to see with their eyes almost dead bold man who dared
to do what all the garden was as impossible.

He paused a while, and finally began to murmur sadly

"Too bad, he also, in his youth he had been dared: he liked to wear
them all the opposite.

But when too many enemies ... Too bad, she had gone into a difficult step. Those land, after the
poor Barret, were cursed. I could believe him, that was old and experienced,
would bring misfortune.

"

And the pastor called his herd, to march him down the road, and before leaving threw the blanket
back, raising his emaciated arms, and some chanting wizard that predicts the future or a prophet
who sniffs the ruin, he shouted to Batiste:

- Creume, fill meu: desgrasia will carry you !...[ 4]

[4] - Believe
me, my son will bring disgrace!

...

From this meeting arose another reason for anger to the entire garden. Tomba's uncle could
no longer put the sheep on that land, after ten years of peaceful enjoyment of their pastures.

Nobody
said a word about the legitimacy of the refusal of the occupant to
be the ground cultivated.

All spoke only of the respect he deserved the old minister, a man that in his youth, the French
ate raw, who had seen much of the world, and whose wisdom, demonstrated
average incoherent words and advice, inspired a superstitious respect
to the people of the barracks.

When Batiste and his family were drenched fertile seed the bowels of their land, thought of housing, lack
of work more urgent.

The field would do his duty. It was time to think about themselves.

And for the first time since his arrival in the orchard, land Batiste left to go to Valencia
to charge your car every scrap of the city that might be useful.

The man was a tireless ant to search for it. The mounds formed by Batistet widened considerably with
the father's expeditions. The hump of manure, which was a shade defensively to the hut, grew
rapidly, and beyond hundreds amontonáronse of bricks, rotting timbers,
broken doors, windows made chips, all demolition waste in the city.

People watched in amazement how quickly the garden and good skill of industrious hackers to
fix your home.

The thatched roof of the cabin was suddenly straightened, the ribs of the roof eaten away by the
rains, were reinforced and substituted some other, a layer of fresh straw covered the remaining
two planes abroad. Even the little crosses on the ends were substituted by others that worked
cucamente Batiste knife, decorating its edges with jagged notches, and there was all round roof that
they stood more graceful.

The neighbors, seeing how reformed Barrett's cabin, standing straight cap, saw in this bit of
fun and challenge.

Then began the work below. What a way to use the rubble of Valencia! ... Cracks disappeared,
and finished plaster walls, the wife and daughter the whitewashed dazzling white. The new door
and painted blue, it seemed the mother of all windows, poking through the holes in the walls
its square faces of the same color. Under the vine Batiste made a square, paved with red bricks,
for women to sew there in the afternoon. Well, after a grueling week of declines and carries,
was cleared of all stones and rubbish that the rascals had crowded orchard for ten years, and again
its clean, fresh water rose again in mossy pail with cheerful chirps
of the wheel, which seemed to laugh at people with a raucous contour
old mischievous laugh.

Neighbors devouring rage in silence. Thief, rather than a thief! What a way to work! ... The
man seemed to have with their brawny arms two magic wands that transform all at the touch.

Ten weeks after his arrival, had not yet left their lands half a dozen times. Always on them,
his head between his shoulders and his spine bent, intoxicated in their work, and Barrett's cabin
had a flirtatious and cheerful appearance, as never had been held
by its former occupier.

The yard, surrounded with rotten hurdles before, now had poles and
mud walls, painted white on the edges of chickens running around the
blonde and inflamed the rooster, straightening purple head .... In
the square, opposite the barracks, beds blooming dompedro and vines.

A row of pots painted blue chipped pots served on the bank of red bricks, and through the open
door - ah, blowhard - there was the Cantarera new white sheets with tiles and green jars belly
pan, a set insolent glare and took the view that once ran through
the road.

All in his fury rising, went to Pimento. Could this be pampered?

What did make Pepeta the terrible husband?

And Pimento scratched his face listening to them, with some confusion.

What was I going to do? ... Its purpose was to say two little words to that upstart that was
brought to cultivate what was not theirs, a very serious indication
that "it was not stupid" and again his land, because there had nothing
to do.

But this subject did not come out of their fields, and not thing
was going to threaten him at home.

This would "give the body" too, taking consider what might happen
next.

Had to be cautious and save the output. Anyway ... a little patience. Him, all I could say is
that this subject would not reap the wheat, and beans, and all that was planted in the fields of
Barret. That would be for the devil.

Pimento reassuring words to the neighbors, and they continued with the watchful eye Progress of
the goddam family, wishing silently that soon came when his ruin.

One afternoon he returned Batiste of Valencia, very happy with the results of his trip. I did
not want to arm home pointless. Batistet, when there was work in the field, sought occupation
going into the city to collect manure.

There was the girl, a Bouncers that arrangement ended the cabin, no good for much, and thanks
to the protection of the children of Don Salvador showed that thrilled
with the new tenant just to get that support it in a silk factory.

From the next day, Rosetta would be part of the string of girls, waking
up dawn, going through all the paths with flowing skirt and the basket
to the arm path the city, to spin the silken cocoon between his thick
fingers of daughters of the garden.

Batiste Arriving to the vicinity of the tavern Cup, a man appeared on the road leaving a trail immediately
and marched him slowly, giving to understand their desire talk.

Batiste was stopped inside regretting not carrying not a bad knife
or a sickle, but serene, tranquil, rearing its head round the expression
so feared by pressing his family and across the chest the arms of
former strongman mill boy.

Known to man, although he had never spoken with him. Pimento was.

At
last the encounter occurred had feared.

The bully was measured with
a look at the hated intruder, and spoke with honeyed voice, striving
to give his ferocity and malice in a tone of kindly advice.

I wanted
to tell you two reasons: it had long wanted, but how to do it, if
you never left from their land?

- Two rahonetes not més ... [5]

[5]
- Two razoncitas nothing more ...

And let the couple of reasons,
advising him to leave as soon as the land of Barret. Must believe
the men who loved him well, to those familiar with the customs of
the garden. His presence there was an offense, and the cabin almost
new an insult to the poor people. There to follow his advice and go
elsewhere with his family. 

Batiste Pimento smiled ironically as
he spoke, and he, at last, seemed confused by the serenity of the
intruder, shocked to find a man who felt no fear in his presence.

""
Leaving it? ... There was cute to make him abandon what was his, which
was watered with their sweat and had to give bread to his family.
He was a peaceful man, are we? but if you seek out tickles, was as
brave as they come. Everyone that gets into your business, and he
would rather meet with him without offending anyone. "

Then, past
the bully, went his way, turning away with a confidence derogatory.

Pimento,
accustomed to him tremble all the garden, looked increasingly puzzled
by the serenity of Batiste.

- Is the Darrera paraula [6] - he cried
when he was already at a distance.

[6] - Is the last word?

- Yes,
the Darrera - Batiste replied without turning.

And went ahead, disappearing
around a turn of the road. Far away, in the former barracks Barrett,
sniffing dog barked near his master.

When left alone, Pimento regained
its pride. "Christ! And how he had taunted him Uncle! "muttered some
curses and threatening a fist pointed curve of the road where he had
gone Batiste.

- You will pay me .... I will pay, backpack!

In his
voice trembling with anger, hatred vibrated condensed all of the garden.