 

Prince was in vain that expose the state of Madame de Ponce, who had no complicity some in the
escape of Carolina, that the effect of this was excusable and natural, and could be sure to
be submitted to the spontaneous decision. Then mounting him blood the cheeks, and disdainful look,
but with singular coolness, said:

- Allow me two more words. I have a duty to inform you of a circumstance that surely justify me, as
executor of the deceased Galba to reject their claims. A few months later the death of Mr. Galba,
a Chinese that he had been in service and discovered she had made a will, which was later discovered
among its documentation. Negligible value legacy, mostly land, then a low value, prevented his executors
surrogates to carry out his will, and even open and will make public the formulas prescribed
by law, until about two or three years when the value of property had already increased considerably.
The provisions of that bequest are simple, but strict. Galba assets are divided between Carolina
and his stepmother, with explicit condition that the latter is his legal guardian, provide for
their education and replace and make a father in all that is the case.

- And what is the value of that legacy? - Asked Robinson.

- I can
not say exactly, but about half a million - said Prince.

- If so,
I declare that the conduct of Ms. Ponce is as honest as justified
- answered Mr. Robinson.

- Is not I who dare to doubt or oppose obstacles
to the fulfillment of the intentions My late husband - said of Galba.

And the interview is over.

By communicating the results of it to Madame de Ponce, it took John's
hand to lean lips.

- Nothing can add to my present happiness, Juan,
but tell me, why is it hidden Carolina?

John smiled quietly.

After a week completed the necessary legal formalities, and Carolina
was returned his stepmother.

A proposal for the sick, rented a house in the suburbs of the population, there to await the
spring came late this year, and the lady's convalescent Ponce did not come ever.

However, he was patient and happy.

He liked to observe sprouting beyond the window trees unknown to her in California, and ask their
names and Carolina fruit. Still planned for the summer long walks with Carolina through the
lush woods, where the gray and dry lines could be seen from the cottage. Wanted to write a
poem dedicated to them, one of the members of this makeshift family kept it a song joyful,
pure and simple, like an echo of pitirrojo who called from the window at birth dawn.

Then, abruptly, spread over the sky a clear day, mystically soft,
sleepy and beautiful, throbbing as if swooping life with invisible
wings, Nature woke up to an exuberant resurrection.

And the poor sick woman was seated outdoors, prostrate under that glorious sun gilded it all with
his rays. There he lay for a long time in sweet and peaceful bliss.

One day, tired of ensuring Carolina, had stayed by his side, and the thin lady fingers Ponce perched
upon his head as if in tender benediction.

A bit, called John.

- Who has been recently? - Said in a barely audible voice.

- Mademoiselle de Corlear - John said, answering the look in his sunken eyes.

- John - said after a pause, - beloved John, sit beside me for a moment, I have to tell you
something. If in recent days I have ever seemed hard or cold, or coquettish, was because I loved
you, John, I loved you too much to jeopardize your future, chaining with mine and obsolete.
Always loved you, dear John, even when you seem less deserving.

Everything happened already, but I recently had a dream, John, I dreamed of a woman, who would
find As for me I was missing - and looked lovingly at tender bud
slept beside him, - and would love as you loved.

Is not it true?

And he fixed his eyes, giving off a last flash of light. John shook his hand, but did not answer.
After a few moments of silence, said:

- Maybe hits in your choice.

It's a good girl, Juan ... though a little bold.

And he said no more. The last trace of life that head came off weak, crazy and passionate. A butterfly
had landed on his chest blew, and the hand away from head Carolina fell to his side, motionless.

DE-HINCHÚ,
The idolater

     
     The menu at Hop-Sing, fluttered to the ground a strip of yellow paper,
     which at first view candidly that I figured would be the label of
a package of Chinese surprises, so many figures and hieroglyphics
were contained.

There was also within a smaller strip rice paper with two exotic
characters, drawn with ink, in which recognized card immediately Hop-Sing.

The translation of all this was:
     

"The doors of my house are not closed to the outsider, the bowl of
     rice is on the left and sweets to the right of the input.

     
     "The teacher gave these two sentences:

"Hospitality is the virtue
of the child and the wisdom of parents.

"The sane is tender-hearted, after the harvest, a festival.

"If you see the stranger in your hedgerow, melons, did not observe very closely, while meeting
is often the highest form of wisdom.

     "Happiness, peace and prosperity .-- Hop-Sing."
     
     I am obliged to confess that, after a very free translation, I found
myself in serious trouble immediate implementation to carry the message
that I was going.

     By wise and judicious than were the above adages, I was, as they
say, fasting, on what Hop-Sing wanted to tell me, the darkest of all
the comedians, as a good Chinese philosopher.

Fortunately, I discovered a third paper, folded as a note, containing a few words English,
written in block letters running of Hop-Sing. Said:

"I hope you will honor their attendance numbers ... of Sacramento Street, on Friday next at eight
of the Hop-Sing .-- night. "

"A cup of tea at nine o'clock."

That gave me the key to everything. It was a visit to the warehouse of Hop-Sing, openness and
exhibition of some rare Chinese novelties and curios, a session in the back office house, a
cup of tea, for goodness unknown outside of these holy places, cigars and a visit to the theater
or Buddhist temple. Indeed, this was the favorite of Hop-Sing while in the exercise of their hospitality,
as the principal or superintendent Ning-Fu Company.

Specified day at eight o'clock and entered the warehouse of Hop-Sing. The house was stuffed of
that mysterious odor, pleasant and indefinable, of foreign goods, could be seen there the usual exhibition
of objects of unusual appearance, the endless procession of tile or china, whimsical brotherhood
of the grotesque and the mathematically precise finish and, endless manifestations of the fragile
frivolity, lack of chromatic harmony, everything with strange and peculiar coloring. Huge kites
dragons and gigantic butterflies; other so artfully arranged, which threw intervals, entering into
the wind, the cry of the hawk, some so large that it was impossible for any boy could dominate,
so large that they did understand why comets in China take a fun the elderly; mythology of china
and bronze so disastrously ugly, for the same failure so, no waking
nor human sympathy nor any feeling of piety candy jars completely
covered by moral thoughts of Buddha and Confucius, hats that looked
with baskets and baskets that looked like hats, silk so thin and delicate
that I dare not to tell the incredible number of square yards that
could pass both a child ring.

These and many other indescribable objects were known to me. I continued my way through warehouse
lighting sparingly until you reach the back office or living room, where I found Hop-Sing, who
received me with peculiar kindness.

Not go into the description without the enlightened reader dispose of your mind all sorts of
ideas about the Chinese may have acquired works and performances biased. Not wearing their pants
legs with scalloped full of bells, I never found a Chinese to take them, no progress steadily
extended her index finger at right angles with the body, even as I ever heard utter the mysterious
sentence Ching a ring a ring chaw, nor danced as those at the slightest indication. Rather it
was, overall, a gentleman serious, decorous and all respectability. His color, which stretched
across the head to her long braid, resembled that of a beautiful agarbanzado paper and glossy,
and her eyes were piercing black. He was straight and finely shaped nose, mouth small, teeth
giblets, clean, and eyebrows inclined at an angle of fifteen degrees. Her dress characteristic
was a dark blue silk blouse, and the street, on cold days, a short leather jacket Astrakhan.
In the legs was but leggings blue brocade closely tight around the calves and ankles would
have said that that morning he had forgotten wearing the pants, but they were so aristocratic
manners, which completely concealed alleged lack of those. Although Spartan severity was fine person
and spoke with ease in English and French. In sum, I doubt you would have to find another
Like this Pagan shopkeeper among Christians of its kind in San Francisco. Some people else
was there. A Federal Court judge, a senior government official, a wealthy merchant and a publisher.
After we had drunk our tea and tried some candy from a artistic vase rose Hop-Sing, and doing
badly sign to follow him, indíconos that low to the basement with him. Once there, we were surprised
to see brightly lit and some chairs arranged in a circle on the smooth
pavement.

After we had done lay, said ceremoniously:

- I invited you to witness a spectacle that ever I can assure foreign some have seen, outside
of you. The magician of the court, De-Hinchú, arrived yesterday morning. Function has never
been outside the palace, but I asked you to amuse my friends tonight and has agreed willingly.
For your gaming needs no theater, tables, accessories, or help some,
but only what you see here.

Acknowledge, gentlemen, and examine the ground for themselves.

Naturally, we were to consider that. It was the usual ground floor or the basement is the stores
in San Francisco, asphalt, to prevent moisture. We hit the pavement with our rods and both walls
to please our guest policy, no otherwise, they were fully compliant to be victims of any clever management.
Of me to say that I was willing to be deceived, and if I had offered
an explanation of what followed, probably would have excused.

I am convinced that together, the role of De-Hinchú was the first of its kind given on American
soil, however, as it surely will have become so familiar since some of my readers, I will not
be annoying to insist on it. He began by casting the flight, with the help of her fan, a large
swarm of butterflies, made to our view small bits of tissue paper and kept in the air for the
rest of the session. Certainly the judge tried to grab one, which had been standing on his
knee, and escapósele the way of a lepidopteran truth. At the same time De-Hinchú, still driving
your fan, pulled chicken hat, palm oranges, extracted yards of silk without end of his sleeves,
and filled the basement surface of genres that sprang up mysteriously soil, their own dress
from scratch. He swallowed knives to the detriment of their digestion for years to come, dislocated
all members of his body and leaned back in the air, as resting in the ether. But fortune that
crowned the function, and so far I have not seen repeatedly, was the most amazing, fantastic and
mysterious. It is my apology for this long preamble, my only excuse
for writing this story, the genesis of this true story.

At one point, cleared the ground of the objects that encumbered, and then invited us all to get
up and further consideration. Hicímoslo with gravity, nothing but asphalt notice pavement. Then
asked to lend him a handkerchief, as if by chance I found myself closer to him I offered him
mine. Took it in his hands and spread it open on the floor, unfolded upon him a large box of
silk, and this, again, a large shawl, which covered most free field. Situose after one of the vertices
of this rectangle, and began a monotonous chant, rocking back and forth to the beat of a mournful
melody. We hope still, and dominate the song, we heard the bells of the city clocks, and shake
a car that rolled down the street on our heads. The anxious anticipation, the opaque and mysterious
twilight of the cellar, hovering in a fantastic on deformed bulk a Chinese deity in the background,
the drowsy smell of opium mixed with the smell of spices and uncertainty of what we were really
expecting, we were overwhelmed with shivering of instinctive fear: we looked at each other
with a forced smile. The unrest reached its high when Hop-Sing, rising slowly, pointed at the
center of the shawl, saying the lower floor.

There was something beneath the shawl! And something that was not there before, at first an imperceptible
relief, the vague but growing more and more distinct and visible at every moment happened. The
chant still continued, the sweat began to run down the face of the singer, for the hidden object
was now taking shape and body, which raised the shawl in its center a few inches of soil.
It was undoubtedly because the outline of a small but perfect human body with arms and legs open.
Pale and felt restless, the Finally, the editor broke the silence with a joke, however poor
it was, received with spontaneous joy.

Suddenly ceased singing, and De-Hinchú, with a quick and clever movement, snatched and silk shawl,
and discovered sleeping peacefully upon my handkerchief, a tiny urchin.

The resounding applause that followed this discovery had to leave De-Hinchú satisfied, even
if his audience was small, at least, was quite loud to wake creature,
a beautiful boy about a year old, who looked like a statue of Cupid.

Was taken away almost as mysteriously as it had appeared. Hop-Sing When I returned, with a greeting,
my handkerchief, I asked if the juggler was the father of the young
boy '.

- Who knows? - Said the imperturbable Hop-Sing, using the
formula of ambiguity Spanish so common in California.

- But it is
a new creature for each function? - I said.

- Maybe!

Who knows?

- But what will become of it?

- Whatever you want, gentlemen - Hop-Sing
said, making a polite bow .-- Born here, you are his godparents.
