 2. chap. 13).

These words contain several extremely serious, worthy to be examined carefully.

[92.] Is there an intrinsic inability to oppose a different organization than we possess, and therefore,
gender and order to a totally different sensations we experience? It seems not, and if this
impossibility is, man does not know.

Whatever the opinion is adopted regarding the manner in which external objects act on the soul through
the body's organs, not any necessary relation or even analogy between the object and the effect
that we produce.

A body surface receives the rays of the fluid we call light, those reflecting come to stop at the
retina, ie to another surface, which is in communication with the
brain: So far so good, everything is understood, there is a fluid
that moves, ranging from a surface to another, and that can cause
this or that purely physical effect on the brain matter, but What
relationship is there between this and the impression of a completely
different order, called see? the impression that neither is the fluid,
or movement, but an affection that is closely conscious being living,
thinking, self?

If instead the mechanism of light fluid, we assume a completely different, for example the air
that vibrates and is about to hit the eardrum, what is essential reason for not producing a sensation
similar to that of sight?

Must confess that critical reason can not be point to no. Who had no idea of ??the present organization,
it would seem as incomprehensible one as the other.

[93.] He said hearing and sight, is applicable to the other senses: in all there is a body corporeal,
affected by a body: we see surfaces, or the one presented before the other, or overlapping, we
see movements of this or that class, but how to save the vast distance of these physical phenomena
is the phenomenon of sensation? For my part I find middle: this is a point where human intelligence
is stopped, all appearances indicate no more relationship between these two kinds of phenomena
that set free by the will of the Creator, if there is any necessary connection, this need is
for man a secret. Consider the tissues that receive the impression of objects, the mass that
form the nervous system through the sensation, and see what is the
relationship between physical phenomena of this subject, and an admirable
set of sensible phenomena; not found.

[94.] Upload the difficulty point when one considers that the organs, even preserved without injury
any, cease to produce sensations from the moment they are cut off from the mass brain, or that is
having some disorder, and so that the vision takes place in the cavity the skull, in the midst
of the most complete darkness, and all the wonderful magic of sensations can be presented to our
mind the magnificent spectacle of the universe, reaching deep into our souls the wonders of music
with us in exquisite taste dishes in delicate aromas, all this takes place through the brain matter,
ie a white material, apparently report and rude, and that no one
could suspect that was spent in so noble.

[95.] What reason is there to hit the nerve in communication with the mass, we to experience the
sensation we call seeing, and affected the nerve B, which we call hearing, and so the other
senses? The reason will be, but we do not know, and probably not another that the free will of
the Creator. With this philosophy confesses its weakness, it is true; but would not it also
expresses its scope, seeing a phenomenon to another is immense distance, and can not be among them
but the point of communication established by the same hand of the Almighty? When there are
secondary causes, the merit of philosophy is to bring them; but when they do not exist, this
merit is estimated to rise to the first. A I do not know is sometimes more sublime for human reason,
impotent efforts intemperate pride, the understanding can also be
high understanding their ignorance, because it is high understanding
including higher truths, and sometimes ignorance is also a really
very high.

[96.] It is possible because a new meaning, or at least not in its existence found no impossibility.
If the deaf who have no idea of ??the sounds, the blind do not know what they are colors, would
proceed very wrong to deny the possibility of feeling that is lacking;
would run no more success with us saying that it is not possible order
of sensations different from what we have