 What a country! There are men with about
white hats and mats, color jackets with the collars up to the neck, boots high as those of
the cavalry, women with skirts and sleeves flute, so narrow mark them all that remains inside. And
on and on talking about the costumes and customs the time of the Empire, imagining everything
and still existed today's France was like to beginning of the century.

While detailing his memories, the teacher and his wife heard him attentively, and some boys, abusing
the unexpected holiday, away from the barracks were attracted to the sheep, fleeing from them
as the devil. The pulling of the tail, cogíanlas legs, forcing them to walk with the front legs
were rolled by the wayside, or trying to ride them registering a jump on their dirty wool.
And the poor animals in vain protesting with tender bleating, because he did not hear the pastor,
occupied in recounting with delight the agony of French finally killed him.

- And how many fell? - Ask the teacher at the end of the story.

- Question one hundred and twenty or one hundred thirty. Can not remember.

The marriage was smiling. Since the last conversation had increased
twenty French.

As the years passed their exploits were getting larger and the number of victims.

The moans of the herd finally called the teacher's attention.

- Gentlemen - shouted to the brave disciples while cane required - all here. Can you imagine that there
is more to spend the day having fun?

... The center works.

And to prove it by example, moving the rod it was a pleasure introducing
to blows the fold of wisdom to all the flock of playful rascals.

-
With your permission, Tomba: more than two hours we are talking about.

I have to continue the lesson.

And while the pastor, dismissed politely guided his sheep to the mill, to repeat there their stories,
started school again in the humming of the multiplication table, it was for the disciples of
Don Joaquin the great show of wisdom.

At sundown the boys let loose his last song, thanking the Lord "because
had assisted with their lights "and picked up the pouch each meal,
because as distances in the garden were not insignificant, the boys
went in the morning from their barracks with provisions for a day
at school.

This meant that some enemies of Don Joaquin teacher was fond of chastising his disciples diminished
rations for thus overcome the shortcomings of the kitchen of Dona Pepa.

On Friday, after leaving school, they all invariably heard the same speech:

- Gentlemen, tomorrow is Saturday, you remember it to their wives mothers and let them know
that tomorrow will not bring the two rooms will not enter the school. To you I say especially
'Lord of ... such ', and to you,' Lord of ... which "- and thus let
out a dozen names -.

Three weeks since he promised to bring you the stipend, and so the instruction is not possible or
science can procreate, nor fought with native barbarism relief from these fields. I I put everything,
my wisdom, my books - and watched the three cards he was collecting
his woman carefully to keep them in the old comfortable - and you
do not bring anything.

I said: that morning come with empty hands will not go in that door.

Notice the ladies mothers.

Boys were in pairs, holding hands - as in the schools of Valencia; What is believed some? - And left
the cabin, before kissing the right hand don squamous Joachim and repeating all of run to pass
by him:

- You have a good time! Until tomorrow, God willing! 

Acompañábales
the teacher to the square of the mill, which was a star of roads and
paths and there he undid the training in small groups, moving away
to different parts of the valley.

- Mind you, sirs, that I will keep
watch! - Joaquin shouted a last warning -. Care to steal fruit, to
skip stones or ditches. I have a bird that connects me everything;
and if I am wrong, cane walk off as a demon