 The work, with its powerful classes
and oppressed classes, with corrupt officials and indolent bourgeoisie, with its mulatto discriminated
against and their black slaves with their families enriched by the slave system and aristocratic
coats of arms purchased from the decrepit Spanish monarchy serves enlightening preface to our republican
history.

The atmosphere of this colonial era, moved with the breadth and detail abounds pages of the book,
is decisive in the play, which determines its validity in assessing critics. For Cecilia Valdés
is far from a perfect work. The author explains in the preface to his creative process, a process
that undoubtedly resented the ending balance work. The central issue - the drama of love,
jealousy, revenge and death - hardly differs from usual in the brochures of the time, the characters
do not transcend most of the features outside, the action is disjointed and rambling, stolen the story
and main characters by creatures and minor events, the style, hybrid, full of romantic weaknesses
among those dawning glimpses realistic language, oscillating between the most archaic foraging and
the spontaneous popular turn ours outcome, hit, in contradiction with the dimensions of the narrative.

But
Cecilia Valdés is in our literary history, despite these numerous
and serious shortcomings the best novel of the nineteenth century
building.

Many Cubans know it today through the stage adaptation of José Agustín Rodríguez Sánchez Arcilla,
admirably into music by Gonzalo Roig; version that was necessarily vertebrate with the history
of the protagonists. Stripped of luxury descriptive of its environment, the case is weak and melodramatic.
This acclaimed adaptation confirms that the fundamental Cecilia Valdés is on the environment. His
habit of vigorous political inquiry, social and economic, is that attenuates its shortcomings
and sets to work on the doors of the novel realistic.

THE CUBAN

Far from Cuba, without hope of seeing its bright, flowers, and palms, to whom, but you, faces
countrywomen, reflecting the most beautiful side of the country,
would enshrine with more justice, these sad pages?

THE AUTHOR

PROLOGUE

Published the first volume of this novel, Don Lino Printing Literary mid Valdés the year 1839.
At one time I began the composition of the second volume, which was
complete; but it did not work very well because I moved shortly after
one of the Matanzas The teachers of the College of Business, recently
founded in that city, than because a Once there, I undertook the composition
of another novel, Girl with a golden arrow, I concluded and a volume
printed in 1841.

Back in the capital in the year 1842, without leaving the exercise of teaching, I entered joined
the staff of El Faro Industrial, which consecrated all literary works and romantic which continued
almost without interruption until mid-1848. In his columns, among many other writings of various kinds,
appeared in the form of brochures: - El Ciego and his dog, an excursion
to the Lower Back, The Comb Hollow, El Guajiro, Two Loves, The Missionary
of Caroni, the Penitent, etc.

After midnight of October 20 last year
said, I was surprised in bed prisoner, with great shock of soldiers
and officers by the district commissioner of Monserrate, Barreda;
and taken to the public prison, by order of Captain General of the
island, Don Federico Roncaly.
