 The
prison guard was walking in the garlic. There was only presented, and the soldiers doors would
open, releasing all imprisoned comrades.

The giant was thought for a moment, rubbing his forehead as if to
help with these Progress rubs his muddled thinking.

- Okay - after
a long pause said .-- This is a matter to be men, or not to be: getting
into the city and what comes out, that or go to sleep.

Shone in his eyes cold resolution, the fatalism of those who resign themselves to be drivers men.
Poured on him the responsibility of a rebellion that had not prepared. Knew much of seditious
movement, and those people who seemed absorbed in the twilight, without being able to explain why he
was there.

- Comrades! - Shouted imperiously .-- A Jerez those with kidney!

Let's get the our poor brothers prison ... and what is third. Salvatierra is there.

The first to approach the makeshift leader, was Trebujena Paco, the
bracero rebel dismissed from all the villages, as he walked the field
with his donkey selling liquor and revolutionary roles.

- I'm going
with you, Juanon, as the mate Fernando ahead.

- He who is man, and
be shy, follow me! - Continued Juanon large screams, no certainly
lead to know where peers.

But despite appeals to manhood and shame, most of those gathered is
backwards instinctively.

A murmur of distrust, of immense disappointment, elevábase of the crowd. Most, passed suddenly
noisy enthusiasm to suspicion and fear. Her fantasy of southern, always ready for the unexpected
and wonderful, had made them believe in the emergence of Salvatierra and other famous revolutionaries,
all mounted on spirited steeds, as arrogant and invincible warlords, followed by a large army
which miraculously emerged land. Subject to accompany these powerful aids in its entry into Jerez,
reserving the easy task of killing the vanquished, and awarded her wealth! And instead of this,
I spoke to go alone in that city, that drew on the horizon, over the last glow of the setting sun and
seemed to wink satanically his eyes red lighting, as drawing them into an ambush. They were not fools.
Life was hard on her too much work and perpetual hunger, but worse was to die. A house! Home!
...

And the groups began to march in the direction opposite to the city
to get lost in the shadows, not wanting to hear the insults and the
most exalted Juanon.

These, fearing defections facilitate immobility gave the marching orders.

- A Jerez! A Jerez! ...

Out on the road.

Were a thousand city workers, and men-beasts that The meeting had been smelling blood and they
could not withdraw, as if instinct urges them superior to his will.

Juanon Next, among the most courageous, walked the Maestrico, the boy who passed night in the Gañanía,
teaching reading and writing.

- I think we're going wrong - he said to his companion .-- vigorous
march blindly.

I have seen men running at Jerez, to warn our arrival. We expect, but not for anything good.

-
You will Cayas, Maestrico - said imperiously leader, who, proud of
his office, welcomed as the least objection .-- irreverence Cayas
you, that is.

And if you fear, as you najas others. Here we are not cowards.

- I coward - the boy simply said .-- Forward, Juanon.

Pa what life is worth! ...

They marched in silence, with bowed head, as if they would attack the city. Trotting as if
he wished to leave as soon as possible to the uncertainty that accompanied them in their career.

The
Spaniard explained his plan. A jail then: to get the fellow prisoners.
There they join the troop.

And Juanon, as if he could order anything that was not for his voice, he repeated loudly:

- A prison, boys!

To save our brothers!

They took a long detour to get into the city by a street, as if they were ashamed treading
the well-lit wide roads. Many of these men had been in Jerez very few times, unaware of the streets
and followed their conductors with docility a herd, thinking concerns
the way out of there if they were forced to flee.

The avalanche was moving black deaf and dumb crowd of steps that touched the floor. Cerrábanse
the doors of the houses, apagábanse the lights in the windows. From a balcony insulted a woman.

-
Scoundrels! Ordinary riffraff!

Hopefully I'll be damned, that's what you deserve! ...

And in the stones of the pavement, echoed the shock of breaking a
clay pot without that the fragments reached anyone.

Marcasite was that from the balcony of livestock pigs, indignant against that mob, unpleasant
for its ordinariness, who dared threaten decent people.

Only a few raised their heads: The others followed later, insensitive
to the ridiculous aggression, anxious to reach as soon as possible
to meet friends.

Those who were in the city recognized the Marquis, and answered his insults away with words so
classic as immodest. But what that tip! Not to hurry, she had been given a spanking by under
skirts ...

The column was somewhat reflux to the top of the hill leading to the square of the Prison: The worst
site shadow of the city.

Many of the rebels remembered the comrades La Mano Negra: there had given them stick.

The square was deserted, the ancient convent converted in prison had closed all openings, with no
light bars. Until the guard was hiding behind the big gate.

He stopped the head of the column to enter the plaza, resisting the push from those who came behind.
No! Who would help? Where were the soldiers who were to join them? ...

They soon know. Broke down a fence shooting a flame, a red line dissolving
in smoke.

A huge, dry whiplash shaken the plaza. Then another and another until nine, which people, still
in shock, seemed infinite in number. It was the guard, made fire before they were put in front
of the guns.

Surprise and terror gave some a naive heroism. Advanced screaming, arms open.

- Do not throw, brothers, that we have sold! ... Brothers, do not come from poor! ...

But the brothers were hard to ear, and kept shooting. Suddenly the crowd started in the fear
of leakage. They ran all downhill, cowardly and brave, pushing each other, violated, as if they
whipped their backs those shots that were shaking the empty square.

Juanon and more energetic, turning a corner contained the flood of
men.

Groups rallied, but smaller, less compact. They were no more than a hundred men. The gullible
leader swore in a low voice.

- To see: the coming of Madrid: we explain this.

But it was useless to look for.

The Madrid had disappeared in the dispersion, was hidden in the streets
to the sound of gunfire, as everyone who knew the city.

There were only Juanon beside those who were marching from the mountains
and grope through the streets, amazed to go from side to side, seeing
no one, as if the city were deserted.

- Ni Salvatierra is in Jerez,
or know anything about this - said .-- I Maestrico to Juanon paece
that have us harm.

- So I think - said the athlete .-- What we JACER?

Since we're here, let's go to center of Jerez, to Long Street.

Undertook a march in disarray inside the city. What were relieved, instilling a certain value,
was not encountering obstacles or enemies. Where was the guard civil? Why hide the troops? The
fact remain locked in their barracks, leaving the city in their hand,
they infused the absurd hope that it was still possible the emergence
of Salvatierra, in front of the rebel troops.

They arrived without any obstacle to Larga street. No precaution on arrival. The road was clean
transients, but in casinos showed themselves illuminated balconies,
the lower floors had no other close to the gates of crystals.

The rebels went to the societies of the rich hate glancing, but not just stop. Juanon expected
an outburst of anger of the miserable herd: to be prepared to interfere
with his authority as chief to mitigate the disaster.

- These are
the rich! - Said in the groups.

- Those of us who grow fat gazpacho
dog.

- Those who steal from us.

Mial how to drink our blood ...

And after a brief detention, the parade continued hastily, as if they were to some party and feared
arriving late.

Wielding the terrible shears, sickles, knives ... To go aside the
rich and would how rolling their heads on the pavement!

But there was to be on the street, they all felt some reluctance
to push the gates, as if the crystals were an insurmountable wall.

The long years of subservience and cowardice weighed on the rude people to be against their
oppressors.

In addition, they intimidated the light of the high street, wide sidewalks with rows of lanterns,
the red glow of the balconies. All mentally formulated the same excuse to excuse its weakness.
If caught in the open to those people! ...

Passing the Caballista Circle, crystals appeared after several heads
of youngsters.

They were gentlemen who were still ill-concealed concern the parade of strikers. But to see
them pass by, show some irony in his eyes, regaining confidence in the superiority of their caste.

-
Viva Social Revolution! - Maestrico shouted, as if you ache to go
silent the nest of the rich.

The curious disappeared, but the hidden laughed, causing great rejoicing acclamation. While content
with shouting! ...

They came on their way superseded the Plaza Nueva, and seeing that
the head stopped, agrupáronse around him, his eyes questioning.

-
So now what we do - asked innocently .-- Where do we go?

Juanon put a fierce gesture.

- You can Diros wherever you want, what we do pa! ... I to take the air.

And wrapped in the blanket, leaned against a lamp column, remaining motionless revealed an attitude
that disappointment.

People scattered, divided into small groups. Improvisábanse heads,
leading each comrades in a different direction.

The city was his, now began a good thing! Appeared atomic instinct of the race, unable to undertake
anything as a whole, private collective value, and only feels strong and enterprising when each
individual can work for inspiration own.

Long Street has been obscured: the casinos were closed. After the ordeal suffered by the rich,
watching the parade threatening, they feared a reculón of the beast sorry for his magnanimity,
and all doors closed.

A large group went to the theater. There were the rich, the bourgeois. Had to kill them all: a
real drama. But when he arrived at the door laborers lit they stopped with a fear that had
something religious. They had never gone there.

The air, hot, loaded of gas fumes and the sound of countless conversations that escaped through the
cracks gate, intimidábanles as the breath of a monster hiding behind the red curtains the lobby.

That
came out! Come out and know what was good! ... But, get in there? ...

Looked out the door several spectators, attracted by the news of the invasion that filled the
streets.

One of them, with cape and hat, sir, these men dared to advance to wrapped in blankets, who formed
a group outside the theater.

Fell on him, surrounding him with pruning shears and sickles in the air, while other spectators
fled, taking refuge in the theater.

They had, at last, what they wanted!

It was the bourgeoisie, the sated bourgeois, who had to bleed, to repay the people all the substance
had sucked ...

But the bourgeois, a robust young man, looking calm
and frank, I held with a gesture.

- Eh, mates!

That I am a worker like you!

- Hands: to see hands - roared some braceros, without threatening
their arms folded.

And through the fold of the cloak, appeared strong hands, square, fingernails eaten by the job.
One after another, these men were stroking the palms, appreciating their corns. Callus was:
it was yours. And threatening weapons again to hide under the covers.

- Yes, I am yours - continued the young .-- I am a carpenter, but
I like to dress as the gentlemen, and instead of spending the night
at the tavern, the step in the theater.

Each have their hobbies ...

This disappointment caused such dismay at the strikers, many of them retired. Christ! Where
they hid the rich? ...

Marched through the streets broad and narrow streets away, in small groups, looking find someone
to teach them hands.

It was the best way to recognize enemies of the poor. But not with tripe or without them, find anyone
at her pace.

The city seemed deserted.

People saw that armed force was hidden in the barracks, running to stay at home, exaggerating
the importance of the invasion, believing they were million men who filled the streets around
the city.

A group of five braceros stumbled into an alley with a gentleman.

Were the most ferocious of the band, men who felt a homicidal impatience, seeing that the hours
passed without bloodshed.

- Hands, teach hands - roared round her,
raising her head on the blades square and shiny.

- Hands! - Answered
the young man in a bad mood, overt .-- Why should I teach?

I do not want.

But one of them grabbed her arms with his claws, and a violent jerk, teach him hands.

- They have no calluses! - Dreary cried with joy.

And he made a step back, to fall upon him with greater momentum.

But I stopped serenity the young.

- I have no calluses, so what? But I am a worker like you. Nor has Salvatierra And for you to
be more revolutionary than he is! ...

Salvatierra's name at the top seemed to stop the heavy blade.

- Let the boy - said behind them the voice of Juanon .-- I know him and vouch for him. It is the
friend of teammate Fernando, is the idea.

Fermin barbarians left Montenegro with some regret, watching spoiled
his pleasure.

The presence of Juanon they commanded respect. In addition, the bottom of the lane advanced another
young. That would be the idea, a scion of bourgeois, who would retire to his home.

While thanking Montenegro Juanon their timely presence, which saved
him from death, verificábase just beyond the meeting of the transient
laborers.

- Hands, bourgeois teach hands.

The bourgeois was a pale, stunted teenager, a boy of sixteen, with the suit shabby, but with
long neck and flashy tie, the luxury of the poor. Trembling with fear teach her poor thin hands
and anemic clerk hands locked daylight hours in the cage of an office.

Crying, to excuse himself with broken words, looking at the pruning shears with eyes of terror,
as if mesmerized by the cold steel.

It came from the desktop ... had veiled ... were at work in the balance ...

- Won two pesetas, gentlemen ... two pesetas.

Do not hit me ... I will go home, my mother expected me ... Oooh! ...

It was a scream of pain, fear, despair, which moved across the street. A howl creepy, while something
like a pot broke broken and the girl fell back on the ground.

Juanon and Fermin, shuddering with horror, ran towards the group, seeing in the middle of it the
boy, his head in a black puddle that grew and grew, and stretching
legs and contracting with the death rattle. A trimmer had opened the
skull, breaking bones.

Brutes seemed satisfied with their work.

-
Mial - said one of them .-- The Apprentice bourgeois! It dies like
a chicken ... They'll come then teachers.

Juanon burst into curses.
"This was all they knew to do? Cowards! It had been to the casinos,
where they were the rich, the real enemies, not only occur to to cry,
fearing that breaking windows was his only defense. Only served to
kill a child, a worker like them, a poor lad in desk, he earned two
pesetas and perhaps kept his mother.

Fermin came to fear that the
athlete falling knife in hand over their competitors.

- Aonda go
with these brutes! - Roared Juanon premit .-- God or the devil to
catch us all and we ajorquen ... And to me the first, beast, for believing
that something worshiped pa.

The big man walked away unhappy, wanting
to avoid a clash with fierce comrades. These escaped too, as if the
words of the giants they had returned the right.

Montenegro, finding
himself alone in front of the corpse, he was afraid. Began to crack
some windows after the precipitate flight of the murderers and fled,
fearing the neighbors catch him next to the dead.

He did not stop
in his flight up to the big streets. There believed to be best kept
loose wild beasts, who were demanding that teach hands.

After a while
it seemed that the city awoke. Sounded in the distance a roar that
shook the ground, and soon moved to a squadron of lancers trotted
down the street long. Then the end of it, the rows of bayonets gleamed
and moved the infantry with rhythmic step. The facades of the great
houses suddenly seemed happy opening their doors and balconies.

The
armed forces spread throughout the city. The lamplight shone helmets
riders, the bayonets of the infants, patent-leather tricorn civil
guard. In the gloom stood out the red spots of the troop pants and
belts yellow guards.

Those who had held in confinement at these forces,
believed the time to scatter. For a few hours, the city had surrendered
without resistance, fatigue in a monotonous waiting for the parsimony
of the rebels. But I had gotten blood. It took one body, the body
that would justify the cruel reprisals, to awaken the authority your
dream volunteer.

Fermín thought, with great sorrow, the unhappy writer,
lying there on the street, victim exploited even in death, which provided
the pretext sought by the powerful.

Jerez began hunting around men.
Platoons of civil guards and infantry line input still kept the streets,
while the cavalry and heavy patrols ojeaban ordinary city, arresting
the suspects.

Fermin went back and forth without impediment. Its
exterior was Master, and strength hunted armed only with blankets,
hats field, the coats are rough all who looked like workers. Montenegro
saw them pass in a row on his way to jail between the bayonets and
the rumps of horses, some killed, as if surprised by the hostile appearance
of armed force "which was to join them 'others, stunned, not understanding
chain gangs how aroused such joy in Long Street, where they paraded
for her hours before as victors, not allowing the child abuse