 This responded to the voice of his boss with a supreme effort, forced to
surrender to the British who were guarding the ship, again hoisted the Spanish flag, and Santa
Ana was free, but engaged in another struggle, perhaps more dangerous than first.

This singular audacity, one of the most honorable episodes of Trafalgar day is conducted in a
dismasted ship, rudderless, with half of its people killed or injured, and the remainder in
a moral and physical situation entirely regrettable. Was necessary, once consummated that act, addressing
its consequences: two English vessels, also very poor showing, made fire on the Santa Ana, but
it was promptly rescued by the Assisi, Montana and Lightning, three of which were removed
with Gravina day 21, and had gone out to rescue the imprisoned. Those noble invalid locked new
and desperate struggle, perhaps with more courage than the first, because the wounds not trapped
fuel the rage in the soul combatants, and they seem to fall out with more zeal, because they
have less life to lose.

The incidents all the terrible day 21 were renewed in my eyes: the excitement was great; but people
are scarce, so it was necessary to duplicate the effort. Become so sensitive is that heroic
had been in our history more than a short page, if it is true that with the great event is now
known as the Battle of Trafalgar of these episodes shrink and disappear
almost as weak flashes in a horrific night.

Then I witnessed an event that made me shed tears. Not finding my love for no hand, and fearing
to run any danger, I went down to the first battery and found him busy to point a gun. His trembling
hand had picked up the Botafuegos of a sailor injured and the weakened view of his right eye,
looking for the unfortunate point where I wanted to send the bullet.

When the piece is fired, he turned to me, trembling with joy, and
a voice that just I could understand, he said:

"Ah, now Paca not
laugh at me.

We will triumph in Cadiz. "

In short, the fight ended happily, because the British inability to
understand the of damming the Santa Ana, whom he favored, over the
three ships set, two and a French frigate, which arrived in the thick
of the fight.

We were free in the most glorious, but at the point at which concluded that feat, began to be
clear about the danger we were in, as the Santa Ana had to be towed to Cadiz, because of the
poor condition of its hull. The French frigate took a cable Themis steered north, but what that
force might have to tow another boat so heavy as the Santa Ana, and could only help with the
sails torn left in the club ratchet? The ships had rescued us, that is, the Lightning, Montana
and the San Francis of Assisi, later wanted to take his powers, and forced to sail to rescue also
to the San Juan and the Bahamas, which were marinated by the British. We were, therefore,
alone, without more shelter than the frigate that was dragging us, driving a giant child. What
would we be if the English, as expected, was recovering from his defeat and returned with new
reinforcements to haunt us? Meanwhile, it appears that Providence favored us because wind, conducive
to the progress that we had, drove to our frigate, and after her,
led lovingly, the ship was coming to Cadiz.

Five miles separated us from the port.

What unspeakable satisfaction!

Our troubles soon be completed and soon would put his foot on solid ground, and if we had
the news of major disasters, we had also happiness many who suffered fatal heart trouble believing
lost forever to returning alive and healthy.

The boldness of the Spanish ships was no more successful than the rescue of Santa Ana, for I uploaded
the time and had to retreat without being able to chase the English ships that guarding the
San Juan, Bahama and San Ildefonso. Even four leagues of the term
distábamos of our trip when we go back.

The storm had rages, and was general opinion aboard the Santa Ana that if it took us to arrive,
we would spend very hard time. New and more terrible trouble. Again lost hope in view of the
harbor, and when a few more steps about the terrible element would have put us in complete
safety within the bay.
To all the night they are coming up with terrible aspect: the sky,
full of dark clouds seemed to have flattened over the sea, and electrical
fumes, which swelled with short intervals, gave the awful twilight
tint. The sea, increasingly turbulent fury appeased yet so victim,
roaring with rage, and insatiable greed calling for greater number
of prey