 

The great distance from Cuiaba to the coast of Brazil is due to the gender of Europe thence selling
price up. A very ordinary shirt worth six dollars, or three octaves gold: a pair of shoes, the
same: a flask of wine and brandy, which in the Janeiro given for ten pesos worth in Cuyabá
sixties. And this proportion is sold to other genres. What goes up there at exorbitant prices,
and is the largest smuggling, if you're not at the office custom, is salt, which is carried in Lisbon,
and not permitted elsewhere.

* * *

§. VI.

Cuyabá temperament and fruits of the earth.

In Cuiaba and its vicinity is very hot and humid temperament, and consequentially enjoys all the
land of poor health. The most common disease which is called the Portuguese of the beast: and
they die a lot, because they can not cure. The disease is extreme laxity in the hole with dysentery,
and some fever. The Portuguese, convinced that is bred in the flesh some bug or Guzan, causing those
effects, intended to force lemon juice and other citrus fruits, to kill the bug, and happens not
infrequently ending with the patient. The surgeon D. Pedro Gracian, who sailed with me on
a boat through the Xarajes, very smart man in his right, hearing the ensign of complaining
Cuyabá that was between the people some patients the bug, maybe something was informed that
the bug, and actually went to see the sick, and found that there was no such creature or Guzan,
and offered to cure them later. The Portuguese insisted upon very effectively that there was
no cure for this disease the lemon tart, which maybe mixed with AGI,
garlic and salt, but The surgeon showed them the error where they
were, then taking his account of the patient who had of more danger,
he was given two days healthy, without applying any of the sobredichas
thing to kill the bug, have certainly had no such animal.

The storm water that run through forests there cañafístula, Parages covered by the rods that fall
from the trees, bushes and other plants large purges, with excessive heat and the sleepless nights caused
by the multitude of mosquitoes are in my opinion the cause of that distemper and that disease.
The Spanish, who got into Xaurú, experiments at that temper like
dysentery, with great relaxation in the stomach, which had no the
heat needed for digestion