 Changed
the daily spectacle of sea and land, changing the temperature and the course of stars, the people,
huddled in winter coats, white dress in a week and looked to the sky the new star of the opposite
hemisphere ... and your cabin always well, like a corner of a planet apart, insensitive to
variations of this world.

In the morning, awakening in him, he became involved in an atmosphere, green and smooth, it same
as if he had slept in the back of an enchanted lake. The sun drew on the white the roof and
sheets of gold restless network, whose meshes are constantly succeeded: was a reflection of
invisible water. In the stillness of the ports coming through the windows the screech of the cranes,
the shouts of the porters, talks of occupying boats around the liner. At sea was the cool silence of
the vast murmuring what filled his bedroom. A wind of infinite purity, which may come across
the planet, gliding thousands of miles across deserts salty without touching a single corruption slid
down the throat of a wine Ferragut gas intoxication. Its hard ribbing dilator was shot pulses
in this life, while his blue eyes twinkled with the bright horizon.

At home, the first thing he saw upon waking was a Catalan building, rich and monstrous, like the palaces
that draw the hypnotized in his dreams: an amalgam of Persian flowers, Gothic columns, tree
trunks with quadrupeds, reptiles and snails from foliage cement. The pavement was sending their
vents the stench of a sewer solidified by the scarcity of water, the dust scattered balconies rugs shock,
the palace-chimera swallowed with a novel rich insolence of the whole sky and the sun corresponding Ferragut.

One
night he surprised his relatives by letting them know that returning
to the sea.

Tape nodded a painful silence to this resolution, as if he had guessed long before. It was
something inevitable and fatal should accept. The manufacturers Blanes stuttered in astonishment.
Back his life of adventure when the great lords of the party dealing with him! ... Perhaps
might make him the first council elections.

Ferragut laughed at the simplicity of his cousin. Wanted to send a boat again, but his own, without
having to suffer the impositions of the shipowners. He could afford this luxury. It would
be like a huge yacht, ready to do due to his taste or convenience, and providing the same
time high profits. Maybe your child to become a manager of shipping company, the over the years
become the first ship in a huge fleet.

He knew all the ports in the world, all roads of traffic, and would know to guess the locations
devoid of vessels, which are paid higher rates.

Until now had been a brave employee and blind. I was about to start his life operator of the sea.

Two
months later he wrote from England saying he had bought the Fingal, steam-mail Three thousand
tons, which made the twice weekly service between London and port
Scotland.

Ulysses enthused by the cheapness of its acquisition. The property was Fingal a Scottish captain,
who, notwithstanding his long illness, would not ever give up command
died on board his ship.

The heirs, landsmen, tired from a long waiting, eager to get rid of it at any price.

When the new owner entered the aft lounge, surrounded by cabins - only habitable place in this
cargo ship - the memories of the deceased came to his step. In the plans for the entrepuertas were
painted the heroes of the Iliad Scotland: the bard Ossian and his harp; Malvina round of the
arms and loose tresses of gold, the mustachioed warriors, with helmets
fins and protruding biceps, which were given knives in their shields,
waking the echoes of green lakes.

A soft, deep armchair opened its arms to a stove. They had spent the last years, the owner of
the vessel, heart sick with swollen legs, running from seat on a course that was repeated every
week, through fog, through winter waves that ripped chunks of ice crept to the icebergs. Near the
stove there was a piano, and on its cover a pile of yellowed by time scores: The sleepwalker
Lucia Tosti romances, Neapolitan songs, easy and graceful melodies which spread the old strings
of the instrument with the fragile and crystalline timbre of a music box. The poor sailor
legs of stone tended his sick heart into the sea of ??light. This music raised up among the misty
skies Sorrento hills, covered with orange and lemon trees, the coast
of Sicily, scented by burning plant.

Ferragut manned the ship with friendly people. His second was a pilot who had begun his career
on fishing boats. It was the same people of the grandparents of Ulysses, and he remembered the
Dotor with respect and admiration.

He had met his current captain when he was little and was about to fish with his uncle. At the time,
Toni was a sailor on a lute and cabotage, superiority of years that he had been authorized to tutear
Ulysses.

To be now under his orders, sought to amend the treatment, but the
captain would not consent.

Toni and were perhaps distant relatives. All of those people were united Navy for long centuries
of isolated existence and common hazards. The crew, from the first drivers to the latest ratings,
was equally familiar in his respect. Some were of the same land of the master, others had long
sailed under his orders.

Ulises owner known as a host of concerns that had not previously suspected.

It He verified the agonizing transformation of the artist who becomes an entrepreneur, the writer
who doubles as editor, the engineer dedicated to the fantasy of the inventions becomes a factory
owner. His romantic love for the sea and its adventures was now accompanied worries about the price
and consumption of coal, on the rabid crowd that drove down rates, and the search for new ports
to load early and rewarding.

The Fingal, which had been renamed by its new owner by the name of Mare Nostrum, in memory of
his uncle, was a questionable purchase in spite of its low price.

Ulysses was excited as a navigator to see his high, sharp bow ready
to face the worst seas fast ship its thinness, its amply powerful
machines for cargo vapor, all conditions that had made him serve email
for several years.

Consuming too devoted to fuel profit by transporting goods. The captain, for his navigation,
now thought only the food of the boilers. He always seemed Mare nostrum going too fast.

- Media Machine! - Shouted through the tube to the first mechanic.

But in spite of this precaution and others, fuel consumption was enormous when you the tonnage
of a trip. The vessel consumed all the profits. His speed was negligible compared with that of an
ocean liner, but it was absurd in relation to the vapors Merchant large and small machine quarter
were seeking to charge any price all points.

Slave to the superiority of their ship and ongoing struggle with her, strove Ferragut keep browsing
without major losses. All waters of the world were devoted to Mare Nostrum to transport more rare.
Thanks to him flew the Spanish flag in ports that had not ever seen.

He travels the lonely seas of Syria and Asia Minor, to shores where the novelty of a vessel with
fire was running and crowding to the people of rural hamlets.

Landings made Phoenician and Greek ports blinded by the sand, which retained only a few huts at
the bottom of a heap of ruins. Some marble columns stood still as palm trunks lopped. Fearful breakers
anchored beside the west coast of Africa under the sun I did burn the roof, to get rubber, ostrich
feathers and elephant tusks brought by rowers in long canoes black. Always out of a river town
of crocodiles and hippos, on whose banks rose cones factory straw
for their roofs.

When there were these trips outside the regular routes, Mare Nostrum was heading to America,
resigning to fight cheapness with British and Scandinavians, who are the carriers of the ocean.
Tonnage and draft allowed him to overcome the great rivers of North America, reaching until the
remote interior cities that are smoke rows of chimneys of its factories the edge of a freshwater
lake become port.

Sailed up the Parana to Rosario and red Colastiné for Argentine wheat upload, anchored in the amber
waters of Uruguay, face to Paysandu and Fray Ventos, getting naked for salted meat to Europe
and to the West Indies. In the Pacific went up the Guayas through a equatorial vegetation in search
of Guayaquil cacao. His bow cut the infinite blade Amazon, the giant trunks washed away by
floods in the virgin forest to anchor in front or in front of Pará
to Manaus, taking snuff and coffee shipments.

Even took German war supplies for the revolutionaries of a small republic.

These trips, which once enthusiastic Ferragut had final now as a disappointment. After expenses
paid and have lived in raging economy, there was hardly anything to the shipowner. Were becoming
more numerous cargo ships and freight cheaper.

Ulysses with its elegant Mare nostrum, could not fight the northern
masters, drunk and taciturn, who accepted at any price to fill their
ships sordid undertaking a march of turtles through the oceans.

-
I can not - sadly said to his mate -.

I am going to ruin my son. If I buy Mare nostrum, what I sell.

In one of his fruitless expeditions, when he felt more disappointment, unexpected news fared.
Had just arrived in Tenerife with corn and bales of alfalfa Argentina
dry.

Toni returned to board after the ship's papers legalized.

- The war, che! - Shouted in Valencian, the language of their privacy.

Ulysses, who was walking across the bridge, received the news with
indifference.

"War? ... What ?...» But this war was to learn that Germany and Austria had broken hostilities
against France and Russia, and England had to intervene on behalf of Belgium, the captain
launched to calculate the political consequences of this conflagration. Saw nothing.

Toni, less disinterested, talked about the future fate of the ship
... After the misery!

The freight tonne thirteen shillings to one hemisphere to another were now to be a memory embarrassing.
No charge would apply as from port to port as one who asks for alms.

Now it was given importance, finding requested by the agents and traders disdainful. Mare Nostrum
was going to claim as if it were gold.

Such predictions, which refused to accept Ferragut, began to be fulfilled soon. Short supply
ships in the ocean routes. Some took refuge in neutral ports closer, fearing the enemy cruisers.
Most were mobilized by their governments for material transport huge demands of modern warfare.
Privateers German Using guile, prey increased with the panic of the
merchant marine.

The freight prices jumped thirteen shillings a ton to fifty, then sixty, and to the few days to one
hundred. He could not go higher, according to Captain Ferragut.

- You still go up - said the second with a cruel joy -. We'll see a ton to one hundred fifty
to two hundred ... We are going to become rich!

And Toni used the plural when speaking of future wealth, but it occurs for a moment ask his captain
a few cents more on the forty-five dollars he received a month. The Ferragut fortune to ship and regarded
it as theirs. He esteemed himself fortunate if not short of snuff and could send your full
salary to the wife and children, living there in the Navy.

His ambition was to all sailors modest: to buy a piece of land and be farmer in his old age. Basque
riders dreaming meadows and apple trees, a house in a summit, and many cows. He imagined a vineyard
on the coast, a white house with pergola whose shade would smoke his pipe, and the whole family,
children and grandchildren, extending the harvest passes over the
hurdles.

He joined family Ferragut admiration, equal to that of former squire for his champion, to that of
an old sergeant and an officer of genius. The books that filled the cabin captain made him
remember his anguish when examined in Cartagena to take title pilot. Serious gentlemen of the court
had been pale and babbling like a child to logarithms and trigonometric formulas. He ask him about
case studies and skill of skipper, accustomed to all the dangers of the sea, he would respond with
the aplomb of a sage.

In difficult moments - days of storms, low winding, treacherous coast neighborhood - Ferragut only decided
to rest when Toni is replaced on the bridge. With him there was no fear of inadvertently enter
the wave that sweeps through the roof and off the machines, or that the invisible obstacle Stone
nailed his tusk in the belly of the ship. Still standing the helmsman the direction indicated,
motionless and silent, as if asleep standing up, but at the moment brief appropriate dropped the word
of command.

Meat was lean, with the thinness of the Mediterranean annealed bronze. The salt wind over the years had
tanned his face with deep lines furrowing. Coloration Whimsical black was the bottom of these
cracks, while the part exposed to the sun seemed washed by light,
with lighter shades.

The short beard and stretched by hard grooves and lomas of the skin.

Besides, he had hair in his ears, hair in the nostrils, broad and upturned, ready to tremble at
times of anger or admiration ... But this ugliness decreased in the light of their small eyes,
with pupils between green and oily, eyes watching sweetly, with canine
expression of resignation, when the captain made fun of their beliefs.

Toni
was a "man of ideas." Ferragut knew him only four or five, but hard,
crystallized, unshakable as molluscs, attached to the rock, eventually
becoming an outgrowth stone. Had acquired in twenty-five years of
coasting the Mediterranean, reading all newspapers lyrical radicalism
met him at the ports. In addition, the final of his travels was Marseille,
and one of its streets a red room adorned with columns symbolic, where
he was to sailors of all races and all languages, understood fraternally
by signs and words mysterious rituals. 

When entering a port in South
America after a long absence, admired Rapid advances in the shantytowns:
huge docks built in one year, endless streets not found in the previous
trip, leafy parks and elegant on ancient lakes dried.

- It's natural
- stated categorically -. For some are Republic.

Upon entering Spanish
ports, the less disappointment in the vessel, a discussion with government
employees, the lack of space for a good anchorage, made him smile
embittered. "Unhappy country! ... Everything was work of the altar
and the throne. 