 "Farewell, my children
... Goodbye, life ... I do not want to die ... !...»

Not want to die

The two men felt the need to say something, you close the page of
its existence with a statement.

- Viva la Republica! - Shouted the
mayor.

- Vive la France! - Said the priest.

Desnoyers believed that both had shouted the same thing.

Two vertical rose above their heads: the priest's arm in the air drew
a sign the saber squad leader flashed while livid ... Dry thunder,
resounding later followed by several explosions.

Don Marcelo felt sorry for poor humanity to see the grotesque forms it takes in the moment
of death. Some collapsed as half-empty bags, others bounced on the ground as well as balls, some
gymnast jumped with his arms held high, falling back or face down, in an attitude of swimmer.
Leaving the lot saw how human legs contorted by the tremors of agony ... Soldiers moved with the
same gesture of hunters who go to collect their pieces. In the throb of the members scrambled rose
a white mane and a weak hand that was trying to repeat his sign. Several throws and kicks in
the livid lot of blood dripping ... And the last tremor of life were
erased forever.

The officer had lit a cigarette.

- When you like - said to Desnoyers with ironical politeness.

Mounted on the car to cross Villeblanche, returning to the castle. Fires increasingly numerous
and the corpses lying in the streets and the old was not impressed. He had seen so much! What
could alter and their sensitivity? ... I wanted to leave the village as before, in search of
peace of the fields.

But the fields had disappeared in the invasion: soldiers everywhere, horses, guns. Groups
at rest destroyed his contact their surroundings. The battalions had invaded up all the roads,
noisy and automatic like a machine, preceded by the fifes and drums, tossing from time to when
to cheer, his cry of joy: "Nach Paris!"

The castle was also marred by the invasion. Had greatly increased the number of their guardians
during the owner's absence. He saw a regiment of infantry encamped in the park. Thousands of
men under them trees waved their food prepared in kitchens trailers. The beds in his garden,
exotic plants, carefully sanded Avenues and swept, all broken and worn by the flood of men and beasts
and vehicles.

A chief boasting a distinctive sleeve cuff of the military administration issued orders as if he were
the owner. Neither deigned to fix his eyes on the next civil marching a lieutenant with shrinking
of prisoner. The stables were empty. Desnoyers saw her conducted last cows out to the shepherds
sticks with helmet. Expensive players were slaughtered everyone in the park as mere beasts
of slaughter. In poultry and pigeon was not a single bird. The stables were full of emaciated
horses that were given a weariness before the manger full. The grass is sprinkled liberally stored
by the floods, largely lost before being used.

The horses of several squadrons would released through the fields, destroying at your kick channel,
the edges of the slopes, smoothing of the soil, all work of many months. The dry wood burning
in the park a flared useless. Carelessness or mischief, someone had applied the fire to their stacks.
The trees, the bark dry by the heat of summer, rustling when licked by the flames.

The building was also occupied by a crowd of men who were due to this boss. Left their windows open to
see a continuous flow through the rooms. Desnoyers heard shock that reverberated in his chest. Oh,
the historic mansion!

... The general was about to be installed in it, after having examined
the banks of the Marne the work of the pontoon, which established
several steps for the troops.

His owner afraid of him speaking. Feared breaks up the bedroom doors closed, she wanted to go
in search of keys for delivery. The commissioner did not listen: it was ignoring its existence.
The lieutenant said with a kindness shear:

- No need, no bother.

And he went to join his regiment. But before he lost sight Desnoyers
the officer wanted to give him advice.

Stay in the castle, outside of it could take a spy, and was already aware of how quickly solved
their affairs soldiers emperor.

He could not stay in the garden watching from afar his home.

The Germans who came and mocked him coming. Some marched to meet him in a straight line, as
if he saw it, and had to be turned away for not by the mechanical
feed and rigid.

Finally took refuge in the flag of the concierge. The woman watched in amazement, dropped into a
seat your kitchen, discouraged, look at the floor, suddenly aged to lose energy that encouraged
a robust old age.

- Ah, sir ... Poor lord!

Of all the attacks of the invasion, the most unheard of for the poor woman was contemplating
the refugee in his own home.

- What will become of us! - Moaned.

Her husband was often called by the invaders. Attendees of His Excellency, installed in the
basement of the castle, claiming to inquire the whereabouts of the things they could not find.
Of these trips became humiliated, his eyes filled with tears.

His forehead the black mark of a blow, his jacket was torn. Were traces of a feeble attempt opposition
during the absence of the owner to start stripping the Germans stables classrooms.

Millionaire felt bound by misfortune to a people hitherto perceived
with indifference.

Much appreciated the loyalty of this sick man and humble.

He moved the interest of the poor woman, who looked as if the castle itself. The presence of
The daughter brought to his memory the image of Chichi. Had passed it without regard to its
transformation, seeing the same thing when accompanied with little dog trot, Mademoiselle Desnoyers
on excursions through the park and surrounding area. Now she was a woman, thinness the last boom,
noting the first through feminine in his body for fourteen years. The mother would not let
go of the flag, fearing the soldiers, who invaded everything with
its current overflowing, seeping into the open places, breaking the
barriers hindered in its path.

Desnoyers silence left her desperate to confess that he was hungry. He was ashamed of this material
requirement, but the emotions of the day, death, close-up, the woods yet threatening, awakened
in him a nervous appetite. The fact that it was a miserable in the midst of their wealth and
could not have anything in his domain further increased their need.

- Poor sir - said the woman again.

And watched with amazement the millionaire eating a piece of bread and a triangle of cheese,
All he could find in your home. The certainty would not get other food for more searching, made
Don Marcelo continue tormented by his appetite. Having conquered an enormous fortune, to go hungry
at the end of his life! ... The woman, as though divining their thoughts, moaning, raising
her eyes. From early morning the world had changed its course, everything seemed upside down.
Oh, war! ...

In the rest of the afternoon and part of the night was getting the news owner the concierge
brought him after his visits to the castle.

The general and numerous officers occupied rooms. There was only one door closed, they were
all wide, with rifle butts and axes. Gone were many things, the doorman did not know how, but
had disappeared, perhaps broken, perhaps stolen by those who came and went. The head of Cuff
went from room to room examining everything, dictating in German to a soldier writing. Meanwhile,
the general and his men were in the dining room. Drink plenty and consulted maps spread out on
the floor. The poor man had to descend into the caves in search of the best wines.

At nightfall, it was a movement of this human tide flow fields covering out of sight. Had been
established several bridges over the Marne and the invasion resumed their advance. The regiments
were put up by throwing her scream with excitement: "Nach Paris! "Those who stayed to continue the
next day were settled in houses ruined or outdoors.

Desnoyers heard singing. Under the glare of the first stars soldiers were grouped as choruses, their
voices form a choral solemn and sweet of religious gravity. Floating above the trees a red
cloud in the shade for more intense. It was the reflection of the people, still aflame. In the
distance, other farm fires and villages cut off the night with their blinking bloody.

The old man ended up falling asleep in the bed of their caretakers, with heavy, brutalizing sleep Fatigue,
smooth or nightmares. Fell and fell into a dark hole and never ending. Upon awakening, he imagined
that he had slept only a few minutes. The orange sun colored the
window blinds.

Through its fabric saw some tree branches and birds that flew twittering among the leaves. He felt
the same joy of the cool summer mornings. Hermosa tomorrow! But what room was that? ... He looked
strange bed and everything around him. Reality suddenly assaulted his brain, paralyzed by the
first splendor sweetly the day. Was emerging from the mental haze the long staircase of his
memory, with a final black and red step: emotions block representing the previous day. And
he had sleep peacefully surrounded by enemies, subjected to an arbitrary power that could destroy
in one of his whims! ...

Upon entering the kitchen, concierge gave news. The Germans were. The regiment encamped in the park
had left at dawn, and after him, others and others. In the village was a battalion occupying
the entire few houses and the ruins of the fire.

The general had also match with his numerous staff. Only the castle was the head of a brigade
they called his aides 'Count', and several officers.

After this news dared to leave the pavilion. He saw his garden destroyed, but beautiful. The
trees bore unmoved the outrages suffered in their trunks.

The birds fluttered with surprise and joy at being masters of space left over by the human flood.

Desnoyers soon regretted his departure. Five trucks were lined up beside the moat to the castle bridge.
Several groups of soldiers carrying out furniture to shoulder huge
as laborers who made a move.

A large object wrapped in silk curtains that Canvas was supplying
the packaging, was pushed by four men to one of the cars.

The owner guessed. Your bathroom: the famous gold tub! ... Then with an abrupt change opinion
felt no sorrow for this loss. Now hated the ostentatious piece, attributing
a fatal influence.

Because of him looked him there. But alas ... Other furniture piled in the truck! ... At this point
could cover the entire extent of their poverty and powerlessness.

He was unable to defend his property, he could not argue with that boss who plundered the castle
quietly, ignoring the presence of the owner. "Thieves! Thieves! "And again he get in the pavilion.

He
spent all morning with his elbow on a table and jaw resting on his hand, like the day before,
leaving you pluck the hours slowly, not wanting to hear the muffled rolling of the vehicles
had samples of his wealth.

Around noon the concierge told him that an officer arrived an hour before drive wanted to see
him.

When leaving the hall he found a captain like the others, with pointed helmet and sheathed, the
uniform color of mustard, red leather boots, sword, pistol, binoculars
and geographical map in a case pending belt.

He looked young, wore a sleeve cuff of the State Mayor.

- Do you know me? ... I did not want to go through here without him.

He said this in Castilian, and Desnoyers experienced a big surprise that all that had in their
long hours of anguish from the previous morning.

- You really do not know me? - German continued, always in Spanish -. I'm Otto ... Captain Otto
von Hartrott.

The old man fell, or rather rolled down the stairs of his memory, to stop at a step distant.
He saw the room, saw his brothers who had the second child. "We put
the name Bismarck, "said Karl.

Then, going back many steps, looked in Berlin during visit to the Hartrott. Otto spoke with pride,
almost as wise as the older brother but he applied his talent to the war. Was a lieutenant and continued
his studies to enter on the staff.

"Who knows if there will be another Moltke?" Said the father.

And the heavy traffic Chichi was baptized with a nickname, accepted by the family. Otto was henceforth
to Moltkecito relatives in Paris.

Desnoyers was surprised at the changes made over the years. Strong that captain and insolent
air, which could shoot him, was the same little boy he had seen running around stay, the beardless
Moltkecito of her daughter laughing ...

Meanwhile, the officer explained his presence there. Belonged to another division. There were many ...
Many! the advancing wall forming a wide and deep from Verdun to Paris. His general had sent him
to maintain contact with the division immediately, but when viewed
in the near the castle, had wanted to visit.

The family is not just a word. He remembered the days he had spent in Villeblanche, when the
family went to live Hartrott for some time with relatives in France.

The officers who had occupied the building retained for lunch at
your company.

One of them casually mentioned to the owner property, implying that he was nearby, but nobody noticed
him. A large Surprise for Captain von Hartrott. And he had made inquiries to find him, grieving
to see him refuge in the room of their goalkeepers.

- You should get out of it: you are my uncle - he said proudly -.

Return to his home where he belongs. My comrades will be pleased to know, are very distinguished
men.

He lamented that after the old man would have suffered. Was not sure what they were such suffering,
but guessed that the first moments of the invasion would have been cruel for him.

- What do you want! - Repeated several times -. It's war.

At the same time that had been held on their property. They had the order to punish with a
preference the assets of the fugitives. Germany wanted the inhabitants remained in their homes,
as if nothing extraordinary occurred. Desnoyers protested ... But if the invaders shot the innocent
and burn their houses! ... The nephew was opposed to that continue
speaking.

He turned pale, as if behind your epidermis spread a wave of ash; his eyes shone, his cheeks
quivered, as well as the lieutenant who had taken possession the castle.

- Are you referring to the shooting of the mayor and others ... I just had to tell the comrades.
Even the punishment has been sluggish, should have destroyed the whole village: they should have
killed as little children and women. We must end the sharp-shooters.

The old man looked at him in amazement.

Your Moltkecito was so dangerous and ferocious as the others ...
But Captain cut the conversation, repeating once again the eternal
and monstrous excuse

- Very horrible, but what you want!

... That's war.

After news of his mother asked, glad to know he was in the South. Had disturbed much the idea
that remained in Paris. With the revolutions that occurred beyond in recent times! ... Desnoyers
hesitated as if he had heard wrong. What revolutions were these? ... But the officer had passed
without further explanation to speak of their own, believing Desnoyers feel impatient to know
the fate of the kindred Germanic.

Everyone was in a great situation.

His illustrious father was president of several companies patriotic - as their years are not
allowed to go to war - and also organized future endeavors industry to exploit the conquered countries.
His brother 'the wise' lecturing about the people that had annex the victorious empire, thundering
against evil patriots who showed weak and narrow in its claims.

The three remaining brothers included in the army to one of them had decorated in Lorraine.
The two sisters, something sad about the absence of their promised, lieutenant of hussars,
were entertained to visit hospitals and ask God to punish the traitor England.

Captain von Hartrott her uncle drove slowly towards the castle. Gray soldiers rigid, which had
hitherto ignored the existence of Don Marcelo, followed him with interest seeing him in friendly
conversation with a staff officer. Guessed that these men went to humanize to him losing his
relentless and aggressive automation.

Upon entering the building, something in his chest contracted with
shudders of anxiety.

Saw empty painful everywhere they did remember the objects they held before the same space.
Rectangular stains betrayed deeper color in the wallpaper site furniture and paintings disappeared.
Which promptly and that man worked good method armband on the sleeve! ... A sadness that he
was cold and ordered the theft came to join outrage of economic man, seeing shades with tears,
stained carpets, objects broken porcelain and glass, all traces of a rude and ruthless occupation.

The
nephew, guessing what he thought, he repeated the eternal excuse: "What to do! ... It's war.
"

But Moltkecito store did not have the regard of fear.

- This is not war - said in a spiteful tone -. It is an expedition of bandits ... Your comrades
are thieves.

Captain von Hartrott soon grew violent stretch.

Separated from the old, looking intently as he spoke softly, whistling something by shaking with
anger. Attention Uncle! Fortunately, he had expressed in Spanish
and could not understand those who were near them.

If allowed to insist on such assessments, was in danger of receiving a bullet in response.
The officers of the emperor not leave insulting. And all in his person demonstrated the ease with
which he could forget about their relationship if he received the order to proceed against Don Marcelo.

He
paused, looking down. What was going to do! ... The captain resumed his kindness, as if he had forgotten
what he had said. Wanted to introduce his comrades. His Excellency
Count Meinbourg, Major General, upon learning that a relative of Hartrott,
relieved it the honor of inviting me to his table.

Guest in his own
house, entered the room, where were many men dressed and mustard-colored
boots. Instinctively appreciated with a quick look at the state the
room. All in good order, nothing broken, walls, curtains and furniture
were still intact. But looking inside the windows monumental again
experienced a feeling painful. Everywhere the dark oak. Had disappeared
two silverware and other ancient porcelain without leaving the slightest
trace as its parts. Had Greetings to respond to serious presentations
was by his nephew, and shook proffered hand with aristocratic Count
neglect. The enemies thought he was with benevolence and a certain
admiration to know he was a millionaire from the distant land where
men get rich quickly.

Suddenly found himself sitting like a stranger
to his own table, eating the same dishes he used his family, served
by men shorn head carrying a crew on even a striped apron. What we
ate was his, the wine came from her store all that adorned the room
had bought him, the trees spread their branches beyond the window
belonged to him also ... And yet, believed to be in this site for
the first time, suffering the discomfort of strangeness and suspicion.
Ate because he was hungry, but food and wine seemed from another planet.

He
was looking with astonishment to these enemies who occupied the same
places of his wife, their children, the Lacour ... Speak German among
themselves, but those who knew the French frequently made use of this
language so that they understood the guest. Those who only speak broken
some words are repeated to the accompaniment of friendly smiles. You
could tell all a desire to please the owner of the castle.

- Are
you going to lunch with the barbarians - said the count to provide
a seat at his side -. Are not you afraid of being eaten alive? ...

The
Germans laughed noisily the grace of His Excellency. All efforts were
demonstrate by their words and gestures that it was false barbarism
attributed to them by the enemies.

Don Marcelo looked at them one
by one. The hardships of war, especially the accelerated speed in
recent days, were visible on their persons. Some were tall, thin,
with a slender angular, others square and chunky, with short neck
and his head sunk between his shoulders. The latter had lost their
adiposity in a month of campaigning, wrinkled skin hanging and flabby
in various parts of the face