 It is this that helps pay for the room ... Drunkard, sinvergüenzonaza ...
But do not lose time, son, give me the suit, which I will take ... and with the help of God,
I will take even two eighty. Go get me thinking about what is missing. The Blessed Virgin to
you will, and I shall pray for you to give it folded, as I certainly do not want me any thing.
"

Taking Charge of the impatience of his friend, the blind man picked a nail the suit he called
again for a convention very common in business combinations and gave it to her friend, who in
four Zanchetta was placed on the patio and in the round, then pulling to the call Campillo de
Manuela. The beggar, meanwhile, uttering angry words, it is not easy to play narrator, being in
Arabic, felt the bulk of women intoxicated, which as a dead body lying in the middle of the
cubicle. A angry expressions the blind, only answered with harsh growling, and turned away, sprawled
and stretching arms to fall back into deep slumber and more brutal
inertia.

Almudena put his hand in between the black robes, the folds, scrambled with shawl, formed an inextricable
mess, and accompanying registration of furious exclamations, explored also the flaccid bosom,
as if you love skins with cloth. I was so nervous man I found what should be covered, and hid what
they like to see the light of day. There took rosaries, scapulars, a bundle of papers wrapped in
a hard piece of paper, horseshoe pieces gathered in the streets, teeth of animals or people, and
other trinkets. Following registration, entered the Benina, back and diligence, which had sent
so quickly, as if it had been brought on wings and the angels of heaven. The poor woman came
sofocadísima the fast run through the streets, I could hardly breathe,
and Fire dismissed his sweaty face, her eyes joy.

"I have been three - he said, showing the coins - a quarter.

I have not had much luck in Valeriano be there, you get to be the mistress, Reimund, labor
cost get two-plus. "

Responding to the old happy, Almudena, with a face of joy and triumph,
showed him between his fingers a quarter.

'Is here in the Piech of this ... Tigo catch.

- Oh, what luck! Did not have more? Looking good, son.

- I had more. My regolver Piech things. "

Benina shook the drunk's clothes waiting to see a coin jump. But it jumped more two forks, and
some bits of coal.

"I had more."

She rattled the blind, and by the explanations given of the nature and behavior the big woman, could
understand that if they had found this in a state of normal clearance,
peseta would have given the asking.

With a short sentence summed up his partner Almudena Hosting: "Being Bueno, be bad ... Take
it tudo, tudo give it. "

Continuous act lifted the mattress and digging into the ground, pulled out a dirty old suitcase,
who carefully hid in rags and cardboard, and put his fingers in her, like someone pulls out
a cigarette, took a papelejo, which unfolded was a penny of two realities, new and shiny. Benina
took it while he drew from his pocket Almudena, where he had many tools, scissors, needle spliff,
knife, etc.., another envelope with two shillings.

He said to them he had received from D. Carlos, and gave everything to the poor old woman, saying:
'Amri, and arriglar tigo.

- Yes, yes ... I put mine today, and the absence so little that I will not bother you anymore.
Thanks God! I can not believe. Oh, son, how good you are! You deserve to drop the lottery, and
if you do not like, it's because there is no justice on earth or in heaven ... Goodbye, son,
I can not stop another moment ... God bless you ... I'm on tenterhooks. I'm flying home ... Stay
in yours ... and this poor wretch, when you wake, do not hit, son, poor thing! Each one, for the
sake of not suffering, get drunk so you can: this with the aguardentazo, others with something
else. I also lame, but not well: mine are deeper thing ... I'll tell you, I'll tell you. "

And
shot out, the coins stuck in the heart, afraid that someone removed
from the Along the way, or that he flew away, dragged from their tumultuous
thoughts.

Al Left alone, Almudena went to the kitchen, where, among other junk, had a palanganita tin
and a jar of water. He washed his hands and eyes, then took a pot in which ashes and coals
were off, and going to a neighboring house, he returned a little while with fire, over which
poured a handful of some substance in an envelope of paper beside his bed. Fire rose very dense
smoke and a pungent odor. Was the incense of benzoin, the only remembrance of the native soil
material that allowed Almudena wandering in exile. The special aroma, characteristic of Moorish
house was his comfort, keenest pleasure, religious practice and home
together, then wrapped in smoke that things began to pray that no
Christian could understand.

With the smog, the snarling drunk again, and cleared his throat, and coughing, as if trying
to remember yes. The blind did not make him more attention than a dog, attentive only to their
prayers in that language know whether it was Arabic or Hebrew, covering one eye in each hand,
and lowering them later on mouth to kiss. Median time spent in meditation, and when finished,
was sitting before him with eyes slut lloricones elusive and, because
of the itching caused by the thick incense, looked at him.

Seriously presenting palms, Almudena I let these words:

"Great pick,
not having more than one God ... b'rracha, b'rrachona not be more
than one God ... a God, a God alone, alone.

"

He dropped another hearty laugh, and touching his chest, he wanted
to clean up the mess concerned that the hand of his roommate had caused
in that part interesting of person.

Clumsy sleep out alcoholic who could not quite put everything in its site or to cover the modesty
seeks and ever sought to be covered. "Jai, you I've arregistrao.

- Yes ... Not have more than one God, one God alone.

- And to me, what? For me who have already two or forty, all that they themselves want to have
... But tell me, sponger, I've removed the peseta. I do not care. Pa ti era.

- A God alone!

".

And seeing him take the stick, put women on guard, saying, "Hey, do not hit, Jai. Enough and
of incense, and get to make dinner. How much money do you have? What do you bring? ...

- B'rrachona! diniero failing ... Take the Embaixador, you sleep.

- What do you bring? - Murmured the black woman staggered and closing his eyes -. Aguárdate a little
bit. I have dream, Jai. "

He fell back into deep sleep, and Almudena, which had required the club with intentions using
it as an infallible remedy for drunkenness, took pity and sighed hard, muttering these or
similar words: "Paste you another day."

VI

Almost is not hyperbole to say that the Sena Benina, after leaving Santa Casilda, possessing
incomplete hard that calmed his mortal anguish, going in rounds, and street crossings as an
arrow.

With sixty years back, kept his agility and alertness, coupled with perseverance inexhaustible.
He had spent the best of life in an eager rush, which required much
activity as a prank, crazy efforts of the mind and muscles, and that
teaching was fortified in body and spirit, it formed the special temple
woman will know who read this timely story of his life.

With amazing alacrity entered in a drugstore in the Calle de Toledo, collected medicines had ordered
early in the morning, then did stop at the butcher shop and grocery store, carrying her shopping
distinct wrapping paper, and finally entered a house in Imperial Street, near the Rinconada that
is the True almotacén and Contrast. Glided along the narrow portal, blocked and almost impassable
by the flaps of a trade of rope that is in it, rose stairs, walk to the main rapids with moderate
step up to the second, came panting to the third, which was the last, with honors attic. Turned a
large patio Gallery of leaded glass, uneven ground due to uneven subsidence and the old factory,
and finally came to a paneled door, unpainted, called ... It was his house, the house of his
wife, which, in person, groping the walls, came the noise of the
bell, or rather hoarse jangling, and opened, not without the precaution
of asking for sight, square, defended by an iron cross.

"Thank God, woman ...-- told at the door -. Go a few hours! I thought
that I caught a car, or you had an accident.

"

Without saying a word to his wife continued Benina gabinetillo up
next, and both sat down.

Apologized Maid's explanations for his delay was to give them fear,
and began to defensive, waiting to see where it came from Dona Paca,
and what positions he took in his irascible genius.

Something reassuring tone of the first words with which it was received;
expected a sharp rebuke, words complacent.

But the lady seemed to be of good, trained, indeed, the harsh nature of the intensity of suffering.
Benina proposed, as always, accommodate is that you play the other, and soon to be with her,
changed the first phrases, he calmed down. "Ay, ma'am, what a day!

I was undone, but would not let me, I let out of that blessed home.

- I do not explain it - said the lady, whose Andalusian acentillo
persisted, although highly attenuated, after forty years of residence
in Madrid -.

I'm aware. On hearing the twelve, one, two, I said to myself: 'But, Lord, why take so long Nina?'.
Until I remembered ...

- Right.

- I thought ... as I have in my head all the calendar ... that today is San Romualdo, confessor and
Bishop of Pharsalia ...

- Cabal.

- And are the days of Mr. priest
in whose house you're an assistant.

- If I thought you had to guess,
would have been more quiet - said the maid, in his extraordinary ability
to build and expose lies, took advantage of the solid cable threw
her mistress -.

And it was not loose the job!

- You've had to take a long lunch.

That's what I reckon. And do not be short of swallows the San Sebastian curánganos, colleagues and
friends in your D. Romualdo!

- Everything you say is not enough.

- Tell me, what are you wearing? - Nervously asked the lady, who liked
to know what ate in the homes of others -.

I'm aware. I would mayonnaise.

- First rice, which was very close to me. Oh, Lord, how much praise! That if it was I first
cook the whole Europe ... that if shame is not sucking her fingers
...

- What next?

- A fricassee that they wanted for themselves and
the angels of heaven.

Then, squid in ink ... then ...

- For though I have you told me not to bring any leftovers home, they prefer misery God sent me to
suck the bones of other tables ... as you know, you've no doubt brought
something.

Where's your basket? ".

Seeing fuck, Benina hesitated a moment, but no woman was undaunted by any danger and mastery of
the trick suggested working soon remove: "Well, ma'am, I left the
basket bringing suit in Mademoiselle Obdulia, who needs it more than
us.

- You did well.

I praise the idea, Nina.

Tell me more.

And a good steak, not wearing?

- Go, go!

Two and a half kilos, ma'am. Sotero Rico gave me the higher.

- What desserts, drinks ...?

- Up Champagne of the Widow.

Priests are the devil, and nothing is private ... But let's go inside, it's too late, and will
be the lady fainted.

- I was, but ... I do not know: it seems that
I've eaten all that you've spoken ... Finally, give me lunch.

- What
have you taken?

Is it cooked little turned away last night?

- Daughter, I could not pass.

Here I am with half an ounce of raw chocolate.

- Come on, let's go. The worst thing is you have to light a fire. But soon release ... Ah! also I bring
medicines. That comes first.

- Did you do all that I commanded you? - Asked the lady, launched the two into the kitchen -. "Grasp
my two petticoats?

- Why not?

With two pesetas I took, and two others who gave me D. Romualdo for
his holy, I could attend to everything.

- Did you pay the oil yesterday?

-
Well, no!

- And the lime and bloody?

- All, everything ... And I
still have left over after the purchase, for tomorrow.

- God Will
you bring us a good day tomorrow? - Said with great sorrow the lady
sitting in the kitchen, while the maid, with nervous promptly gathered
chips and coals.

- Ay! Yes, sir, keep it at that.

- Why did I tell
you, Nina?

- Because I know.

Heart tells me. Tomorrow we have a good day, I say that a great day.

- When you see him tell you if you hit ... I do not trust your hunches.

You're always with you tomorrow, tomorrow ...

- God is good.

- Me no think so. No shots were tired of me: I beatings, will not let me breathe. After bad
day, is a worse.

Spend years waiting for the remedy, and no illusion that I was not become disillusioned. I get
tired of suffering, I also tired of waiting. My hope is treacherous, and as always fool me, I
do not want to expect good things and bad I hope to come ... even regular.

- For me that Mrs. - said Benina giving the bellows - have trust in God, and would happy ...
You see, I'm ... Did I not see? I always think that when we least expect it We come the stroke
of luck, and we so richly, remembering the days of trouble, and retribution of them with the
great life that we're going to give.

- I do not aspire to the good
life, Nina - said almost crying Mrs. -: I aspire only to rest.

-
Who do you think about death?

That does not: I feel very comfortable in this world fandanguero,
and until I have him for odd jobs law happened. Not die.

- Would
you settle for this life?

- I'm satisfied because it is not in my
power to give me another. Come all before death, and we suffer provided
they do not miss a piece of bread and can eat with two sauces a very
good: hunger and hope.

- And support, and of misery, shame, humiliation
so, due to worldwide not pay anyone to live a thousand tangles, traps
and tricks, not to find who you rely value two real keepers ourselves
persecuted and sellers?

- Go if you take it! ... Everyone in this
life, as can be defended. It would be good We starve, while the shops
so full of things of substance! That does not: God does not want no
one would cool the roof of the mouth by not eating, and when it gives
us money, assume, gives us the subtlety of caletre to invent ways
of gathering what he does fail, without stealing ... not that. Because
I promise to pay, and pay when we have it. You know we are poor ...
formality at home there as haiga no more. It would be good afflict
us because the shopkeepers do not charge these miseries, knowing,
as we know, which are rich! ...

- Is that you have no shame, Nina,
I mean, decency, I mean dignity