 

II

- In vain I waited, my son, make you a paragon of holiness and
patience, that over time you became my successor in the government
of the abbey.

I know everything that happened and I dare not to blame. The affront that you have done was difficult,
almost impossible to tolerate. Is seen, God does not love you for the contemplative life.
Is also impossible for you to stay and not an hour in this holy house, where a scandal has promoted
fierce, but excusable. Moreover, the young man whom he fought is powerful by birth and wealth
and you you can not go on living where he is. I have no other recourse than to force you to leave
immediately from the abbey. But do not go out without wearing helpless and my affection for
you. The abbey is rich, so is the abbot, and nothing can better spend their money. Take this
bag full of gold, Hugo, Captain of the Archers, is ordered to surrender my harnessed the best
horses in our stables there. Run, put on to escape from your weapons, and go horseback riding.

Shedding
tears of gratitude and respectfully kissing his hands, said goodbye to Plácido the abbot and he
embraced him and blessed him.

Plácido rode two hours, alone and armed by a thick pine forest and trail just trite, who was meandering
along the banks of a stream, between towering mountains.

III

Night came fearful and grim.

In this solitude assaulted sad Plácido thousand ideas. The childhood memories arose in his
mind with unusual clarity.

He recalled that six years ago, had been thrown from another nursing home and toughness severely sick
different. From his childhood, from the dawn of life, that he had only very confusing memories grew
up in the castle of the terrible D. Fruela, powerful magnate of the mountain. The Castle was
at a height near the coast. From there, now leaving D. Fruela with good shot people on horseback
to penetrate and cut Moorish lands and plunder as he could, now embarked its satellites in
some whips and galleys of his property, and was to hack or hunt to more cruel pirates who infested
those seas and invaded and ravaged often coasts of Spain, were idolaters
Norman of Norway and the last Tule