 After I used
to go to the cabinet with Mendoza, who followed him, seized by the fear and respect. Not long
afterwards they heard the voice of the general cascade dictating an order or 'throwing a chillería,
" as stated in the wording.

- Wow, Mendoza, do not call me VV. Serrano enlighten many times! I already have VV. illustration
Tell up to the neck .-- V. the manager of the theaters is a paving stone, yesterday given
a stick Chamorro's drama, which is co-religionist, and a few days ago he put them in the clouds
a very bad little piece of a nephew of González Bravo ... Ah! and be careful with me Ferni:
you know V. who has sung in my house .-- Let's see, Mendoza, how consent V. that that Mr. Darwin
said in the Variety section that man descended from apes? (Pause as Mendoza replied, which is
not heard.) Translated, eh?

Well, do not translate these clappers ... Good monkey is the translator!

The call is heard in this way, or pestle, or paving, it was the other way and down even pretending
to be completely astounded head at work. But some of the companions coughed maliciously and others
laughed. A Mendoza in these cases could be heard the metal voice and so from the room, it seemed
that the general was talking to himself. But this as we have said, happened very few times,
usually the director was going to take orders former home of two to three times each day. The
General showed in the newspaper's management the same healthy energy that always characterized
him in the barracks. But there, as in these, his spirit essentially stopped much more analytical
in the details in the set. A bad patch attached, a belt misplaced, exasperated and inflamed
anger in the chest Torrelodones hero (and called him every other day Independence and other
not.) Also a news luncheon, an announcement had twisted his noble spirit a strange embarrassment
that was powerful to suppress. Mendoza was careful not to disturb often. The articles, not getting
loose excite the interest of the courageous leader, and left the writing quite freely in this
area. By contrast, nothing in the world consent to vary the title of a section without being asked.
Sometimes, spontaneous and totally free inspiration, he came to change. One day, after coming from
your household received Mendoza a leaflet ordering, in terms that did not lead to distorted
interpretations the section titled General News newspaper carry his name, thereafter, the Universal
News. Despite the undeniable usefulness of this reform, as the adjective universal is certainly
more comprehensive than general, some insisted on holding editor that subscribers, not only
did not appreciate, but even she would take over. The only subject off limits for reporters was
the English colonial system, and all that resulting therefrom, the general was reserved entirely
this area, which was undoubtedly peritísimo, as he had played twice in India to the Philippines.
His point of view, consistent with the energy of his character, was that to colonize a country,
it was indispensable remove the Indians, without removal, settlement impossible. This was the beginning
he held a series of articles written "with more bravery than grammar," to say a ministerial
colleague. By the way, Rios insisted that Mendoza was to challenge the director; but could not
succeed.

The only thing I read with pleasure in the newspaper, I must say at the risk of wound susceptibility fine
of some writers, was the political loose section, which was in charge of Miguel, or Riverita,
as there was called. However, the general was infinitely more importance to articles. The funds
were in charge of an old silent taciturn widower with seven daughters fed and dressed with
fifty dollars monthly that produced these funds to his father. The wording was the first and the
last out; Articles, full of wisdom, reason, prudence, always gave back issues without going
into them, the general found it more consistent with the rules of the strategy, take over the case
that "discovering the body." They also had the incalculable advantage that began and ended the
same way consistently, with very slight variations.

Here is the model of his style:

"By studying the important issues
specifically relating to the promotion of general interests, the basis
of individual and collective prosperity, can not be ignored, in any
way, how much influence in its resolution a systematic and continuous
As far as public administration, so powerful to remove the many obstacles
that hamper the progress of a country prosperous.

Not that we ignore that in their respective field specifying the smart contest all the other
entities able to discover the sources of wealth, which are all factors of social welfare provided
that the employee work for the intended purpose, meets the requirements of a reason illustrated
by practical lessons, etc., etc. "

When they came to tell Miguel that General said that the writings of Ramos (so called the oldest
of the funds), had more weight than his, exclaimed:

- Sure, why can not digest more than the ostrich!

XI

Arrived in July.

The General Bembo avoid the heat went to Biarritz. Miguel not followed immediately because
I had to take his stepmother and sister to Santander, but agreed with her to spend the month of
August flights where D. Paul had taken a fancy once to build a magnificent country house.
In this retreat had smooth and quiet mimic the general's delightful eclogue of Paul and Virginia,
and a bit too, if possible outside, wild and free love Chactas and Atala.

Installed after he left his family and knew that Lucia was already in Pasajes, moved At this
point in a steamer. Santander left at dawn: the clear sky, as few sometimes tends to be on
that coast, the blue sea and curly. Running a fresh wind and light, to expand the chest and
slapped cheeks. Raised the bridge with the captain, who laughed to see him staggering and hard
to pick the railing, and from there watched the show sublime sun rise in the sea. He got up as usual,
magnificent, serene, showing no fear the tourist, he described in his letters to newspapers, not
least the pretentious poets, who bring and take you and sometimes send you stop to listen its
nonsense. The captain was walking with his hands in his pockets, without making damn case (the sun,
not Michael), and when he, unable to contain, let go some exclamation enthusiasm, he stopped
and asked politely:

- Would you like to V. the sun?

- Very much!

The sailor smiled with an air of compassion, as if to say: What would
the world if tastes were equal!

And aloud he answered:

- Not bad, no, not bad in the sun ...

After thus compromise with the foibles of others, undertook her walk again. And to give further
clearer signs of his benevolence, he stopped again, smiling.

- Now
for summer travel are happy, right?

No ... not cold Then they will see the coast: the sea is like a silk ... When lifting the pilot,
we will ask you to touch guitar ... V.'ll see, you'll see how well
the drive!

But in the midst of his speech he stopped, looking at the bow, frowned, bent on the rail, always with
his hands in his pockets, and shouted:

- Babor!

- Babor - answer
the boat from below, like an echo.

Continued the captain for a while frowning and looking at the bow, to bow out again and said:

-
A road.

- Via - replied the helmsman.

Then again stretched the springs that had made his dark face, and again to draw a smile on his lips
candid and friendly.

- It's nice to hear him play the Seville, you will see.

When the afternoon was spent in front of San Sebastian. Miguel was trying to see mouth of the bay
of Pasajes, without success. The captain was in despair because they appeared the pilot boat.
At last he distinguished himself as a black dot there among the waves came alongside the vessel,
a man in a beret climbed quickly to the draft, and then the bridge, and said with an accent Vizcaino

-
Afternoon, D. Isidoro and the company.

They reached the mouth, which was very narrow.

The practical, without losing sight of the bow of the steam spoke cheerfully of the pilgrimage
he had just left there on the top of the village. Entered by a narrow river, between two high
mountains, and soon lead to the bay, which in fact, did not deserve such a name: it was a sort
of lake, not very large, surrounded by all sides by high mountains and the sea where communication
went unnoticed, not to look far. When they entered the twilight era. In the bay, the effect of abrupt
cord surrounds it, was already low light, the sun had long had sunk behind the mountains, and in
the sky could be seen beyond the semicircle of the moon, thin, blue
and spiky, the Hesperus winking at his side before hiding.

The village is spread across both of sides attached to the mountain, and their houses were washed
by the sea, to which residents could exit the stone stairs. Many had also a small terrace or garden
where snacking or chatted quietly taking the air, or danced and laughed, depending on the mood and
occasion. Miguel learned from the pilot that the people was divided into two parishes, the right
part is called San Pedro, left San Juan. Front, much further away, was a group of newly built
houses and stores, known of flights width or width only.

The steamer anchored in the middle of the bay until the next day. Miguel was surprised and
love of that silent and melancholy retreat into the shadows took appearances twilight even more sad
and fantastic. The imagination began to speak a language soft and mysterious. Looked at the houses
where light is still not perceived at all, and asked: - Are the living
there, away from noise, enclosed by the natural wall, will be happier
than those who live thunderous agitation in court?

Who knows! Fixed on a young couple leaning the railing of a roof and could not help envying.
Back in Madrid do not love, of sure, like this: we are requested
by many wishes at once, that the heart can not collected and live
in happy contemplation of being that is worshiped.

At that time he did not remember for any of Lucia.

His spirit, struck first by the sublime presence of the ocean, and
now for the sweet poetry of that lake, taking off with the tedium
of twisted and artificial life I had just left, its lie and sinful
pleasures, and joined with love the feeling of this quiet little town
that he retired and picturesque inspired.

Came to him from his meditation master, who invited him to have a glass of gin Camera: Miguel said he
wanted to jump ashore and find lodging.

- Lose V. care, now going to be Ursula.

- Who is Ursula?

- The juggler: she was taken ashore and the search.

And indeed, he soon came to the vapor side of a boat, and within it a young who handled the oars with
unusual skill. In Tickets, the service of the skiffs that carry people from one point to another
of the bay is in charge of women.

- Afternoon, D. Isidoro and the company.

- That I give this gentleman, Ursula. Beware what you do with it.

(Here the captain said a great outrage, that can not be repeated.)

Ursula smiled shocked.

- There he, D. Isidoro, let him!

Jumped in the boat our young, and was driven rapidly to the shore.

Ursula was a shepherdess chunky, poorly dressed and with colors so
vivid in his face, which surprised Miguel: later found that heavy
drinking liquor.

He tied the boat and led to his passenger by a rough stone stairs to the street. This was quite
narrow and crooked, as Sunday, I kept having some animation in it, the neighbors were sitting
outside talking, or playing the lottery shops. Feeling the steps of the stranger, rose face and
examined him with curiosity, which trumpeted the numbers also suspended its singing for a
moment to look at him. In the taverns, which were not few, you could hear a lot of uproar.
It was almost night.

Ursula was through that guides the long and winding road, which was the only one of the parish
of San Pedro, a small square in the center of a group dancing girls.

The boatman stopped in front of an old house with a shield on the
door and he leaned against the window of the shop where he had tobacconist.

He said a few words in Basque, and a woman who had leaned in to see
Michael.

- No problem - replied .-- Castilian coming for a long time
that gentleman?

- I can not say to you, Mr - said that raw .-- Probably
the whole month.

- I can offer to V. the room for now, but if a family
comes, hopefully within few days, will V. to move to the upstairs
room, which is smaller.

- I do not care: having a decent room, good
enough for me.

The woman with whom he spoke was about forty years old, was tall, stout, and although quite dejection,
his face still had signs of superior beauty. Dressed a black merino dress modest, as most women
who pass through the villages boys. Arose at this, went to the site and invited the youth to come
up with it. Miguel, Before doing so, he dismissed the boatmen, charging that he sent the baggage.
The room where he entered was spacious, the furniture, though not wealthy, they seemed decent.

-
This is your room, now - said Dona Rosalia (such was the hostess) .-- This is the bedroom.
Want V. bring you light?

- Until you come I do not need luggage.

- Well, excuse me V., I have abandoned the tobacconist.

And the midwife left the room leaving him alone. After he had given some laps enterádose it and
their willingness to the dim light that was there, lit a cigar, and
went out the corridor and fell face down on the iron railing, contemplating,
with eyes distracted, the square dance.

The youth group danced with increasing enthusiasm and sang louder
and louder.

Most of them were cool and strong but beautiful but some deserve the name of such. The movements
were alive, loose, funny: the most liked Miguel was a paste consisting
of arms and turning the body to dance, jump to the letter.

Around them were many onlookers, men and women.

Group noted that they said a girl and came to sit alone under corridor
where he was, glanced at it, but can not see her face, environment
eyes again to dance.

After a while a voice vaguely perceived behind it:

- Listen - said
the voice.

But do not imagine their way to him, continued in a comfortable position.

-
Listen - repeated the voice a little stronger.

- Hey, who's going?
- Then said, turning.

In the shadows of the room could see the figure of the girl I was before sitting under corridor.
Could have fifteen years of age, and so failed to see, had a face
round and brown, quite insignificant, and spent the braid hair yet.

-
My aunt says that if you want V. dinner - the girl said, her voice
trembling.

- If it were possible ... I have some appetite .-- And
as I wished to speak, he added, smiling kindness:

- Do not dance
V. with the other girls? I've seen V. very alone down there in the
corridor.

- Never dance - all confusing the girl replied, as if any
serious misconduct against him.

- Do not know V?

- Yes, sir, I know,
but ...

- Come on, do not like.

- Before you loved me, now, not
so much.

All this was said increasingly shortened, without dropping
from the lips an innocent smile and humble, that pleased Michael