 That lady
was quietly made things, speaking as a son. His look of kindness had a melancholy expression. It
was the sweet sadness of older people that are monotonous This measured the future, and take refuge
in the memories of the past, I envy the young people because they can enjoy in reality what
they savored only in memory.

- Blessed are you! ... Love one a lot! ... Only love is worth the life is worth living.

And Freya, as if irresistibly softened to the above, and moved an arm corseted balloons to the
doctor, pressing convulsively the right hand of Ulysses.

The lenses of gold, with its brightness protector, seemed to encourage them to greater intimacy.
"They could kissing ... "The impressive lady, to facilitate its expansion, was about to leave,
citing a pretext insignificant, when it lifted the curtain of the door between the room with
the office.

A man entered the age of Ferragut, but lower in height, less hardened face tanning by the weather.
He was dressed to the English with scrupulous correctness. Hinted at in the most trivial and
childish concerns at all about the trim of person.

The suit, gray flannel, appeared enhanced by the unity of the tie, socks and handkerchief overlooking
the breast pocket. The three pieces were blue, with no slightest variation in tone, chosen with
precision, as if this man could suffer cruel now out into the street with a color tie and socks
in another. Her gloves had the same dark yellow of his shoes.

Ferragut felt that this gentleman, to be complete, should bring his face shaved. And however,
wore a beard, a beard to the surface of the cheeks and forming the chin short and sharp tip. The
captain felt he was a sailor.

In the German fleet in Russian, in all North Sea, the officers were
not shaved to the English used this traditional chin.

He bowed, or better said, bent at an angle, with sudden stiffness, kissing hands the two ladies.
Then he took a monocle impertinent fixity to one of his eyes, while
Dr. made the presentations.

- Count Kaledine ... Captain Ferragut.

Count shook hands with the sailor, a tough, well maintained and strong
that remained long while on the Ulysses, wanting to dominate with
a pressure no affection.

The conversation continued in English, which was the language used by the doctor in their relations
with Ulysses.

- "The Lord is ocean? - He asked for clarification.

Monocle not moved in its orbit, but a slight tremor of surprise seemed to ruffle his luminous convexity.
The doctor was quick to respond:

- The Count is a distinguished diplomat who is now on leave, caring for your health. He has traveled
much, but it is not marine.

He continued his explanation.

The Kaledine were a noble Russian family of great times Catalina. The doctor, being Polish, I
was connected with them for many years ... And stopped speak, giving
entrance to Kaledine in the conversation.

At first the count was cold and somewhat cavalier in his words, as if he could shed of diplomatic
arrogance. But this pride went slowly melting.

Known for his "distinguished friend Mrs. Talberg" many of the nautical adventures Ferragut. He wanted
to know the men of action, the heroes of the ocean.

Ulises suddenly noticed his noble interlocutor warm affection, such a desire to please to the doctor.
Beautiful home that, in which all strove to be sympathetic Captain Ferragut!

The count, smiling graciously, left to fend English, and he suddenly spoke in Spanish, as if
he had booked this final blow to finish captured his affection with the most irresistible of flattery.

-
I lived in Mexico - said to explain his knowledge of the language -. I made a long trip to
the Philippines when I lived in Japan.

The seas of the Far East were the least frequented by Ulysses. Only twice had Chinese sailed
to ports and Nipponese, but knew enough to keep the conversation
with this flyer showing some sophistication in his tastes as an artist.

For half an hour paraded through the lounge atmosphere of vulgar images of huge roof pagodas
overlapping vibrating in the breeze, like a harp, with its rows of
bells, idols carved monstrous in gold, bronze or ivory paper houses,
bamboo thrones, furniture inlaid mother of pearl, screens with rows
of cranes flying.

Dr. disappeared, stunned by this dialogue, which could only guess at some words. Freya, still, with
the sleepy eyes and a knee between his hands crossed, he kept addition,
understanding the conversation, but without intervening in it, as
if offended oblivion in which the two men left.

Finally he slipped quietly, following the call leaning a hand to
a curtain.

The doctor prepared the tea and asked for help.

The conversation continued without a halt in these absences. Kaledine had abandoned the Asian
seas to go to the Mediterranean, it was anchored to an insistence admiration. Another reason of
affection for Ferragut, who was increasingly sympathetic, notwithstanding her try a little ice
age.

Suddenly realized that was not the Russian count who spoke, as with brief and accurate questions
made him speak to him, as if he is subjected to review.

Appreciated the expressions of interest that this great traveler gave
the small mare nostrum, and especially by the particularities of its
western basin, which wanted to know thoroughly.

Could ask how I wanted. Ferragut had mile by mile all the Spanish coast, the French and Italian, and
on the surface and in its funds.

Kaledine, perhaps to live in Naples, insisted on the Mediterranean predilection between Sardinia,
Southern Italy and Sicily, or is what the ancients called the Tyrrhenian Sea ... Did you know
Captain Ferragut islands unfrequented and almost forgotten across from Sicily?

- I know everything - he said proudly.

And fully discern whether it was curiosity or if the count would be subject to a review concerned,
talked and talked.

He knew the Lipari archipelago, with its mining of sulfur and pumice, group of volcanic peaks
rising from the depths of the Mediterranean. They were placed the former to Aeolus, god of the
winds in them is throwing huge balls Stromboli lava, bursting with a roar of thunder. The
volcanic scoria fall back into the chimneys of the crater or roll down the slope of the mountain
sinking into the waves.

Further west, isolated and lonely in a sea clear of obstacles, is Ustica, a volcanic island and
abrupt that the Phoenicians settled and served as a refuge for pirates
Saracen.

Its population is scarce and poor. Nothing to do with it, apart from some fossil shells of interest
to men of science ...

But the count was interested in this crater, dead and alone in the middle of a sea only frequent
the fishing boats.

Ferragut had seen also, although by far, entering the port of Trapani,
the archipelago of Egadi where large tuna fisheries.

Once he landed in Pantelleria island, midway between Sicily and Africa.

He was a towering volcanic cone emerging in the middle of the strait, and at whose feet were alkaline
lakes, sulphurous smoke, hot springs and prehistoric building blocks, like those of Sardinia
and the Balearics. Ships to Tunis and Tripoli were taking shipment of raisins, only export of
this ancient Phoenician colony.

Between Pantelleria and Sicily, the sea floor rose considerably, saving on its back a water
layer at some points was only twelve feet thick.

Was extensive bank called the Adventure, swelling volcanic island
flooded twice, submarine pedestal Sicily.

Also, the bank appeared to interest the Count Aventura.

- Well you
know the sea - said in a tone of approval.

Ferragut was going to keep talking, but the two ladies entered with a tray containing service area
and various dishes of cakes.

The captain was no surprise that lack of bondage. The doctor and his friend were to him a women
of extraordinary ways, and all the actions was logical and natural. Freya served tea with modest
grace, as if was the daughter of the house.

They spent the rest of the afternoon talking on distant voyages. No one mentioned the war or to the
concerns of Italy at that time to maintain their neutrality or leave it. Seemed to live in a place
inaccessible to thousands of miles around the human throng.

The two women tried to count, with a familiarity of tone, as persons
of the same world, but the sailor thought he noticed at times that
you were afraid.

By late afternoon, this person left his seat, and Ferragut did the
same, comprising that would put an end to his visit.

The count offered to accompany him. While saying goodbye the doctor, thanking him with extreme
courtesy would have made known to the captain, he Freya felt squeezed his hand significantly.

-
After Dark - mumbled slightly, without moving his lips barely -. Come back later ... Wait.

Oh,
joy! ... The eyes, the smile, the pressure of the hand, saying to
him more.

Never got a ride as nice as they marched alongside Kaledine through the streets of Chiaia toward
the shore. What did this man? ... Little things to keep silence, but he seemed to observations
of deep wisdom. His voice was, he said, harmonious and caressing. Everything was just lovely, the
people walking the streets, Neapolitan noise dark, dark sea, the
whole life.

They parted at the door of the hotel. The count, in spite of his offers of friendship, went
without saying what their home.

"No matter - thought Ferragut -.

Return home to find the doctor. "

The rest of the evening was spent alternately agitated by hope and
impatience.

No I wanted to eat, the emotion had paralyzed his appetite ... And once seated at table, ate More
than ever, with an eagerness mechanical and distracted.

I needed to walk, talk to someone, for the passage of time more quickly, deceiving his restless
waiting.

She did not return to the hotel until very late ... And precisely
retired to his room earlier than usual, thinking, with an illogical
superstitious that this would come before Freya.

His first movement was seen in his room with pride. Looked at the
ceiling, pitying the ocean love that one week before lived upstairs.

Poor man! How they had laughed it! ... Odysseus himself was admired as a completely new personality,
happy and successful, separated from each other by a painful period
of humiliations and failures did not want to remember.

Very long hours of anxiously awaiting! ... Paced smoking, lighting
a cigarette in the rest of the former.

He opened the window, wanting to erase the scent of strong snuff. She just liked oriental cigarettes
... And the acrid smell persists cigar Tan, juicy and brave, reached into his bag of toiletries, spilling
onto the bed fund several bottles of essence long forgotten.

A sudden concern bitter waiting. Which was about to reach what was perhaps unaware of their room.
He was not sure giving him the address with sufficient clarity. It was possible that would have been
wrong ... Began to believe that indeed he was wrong.

The fear and impatience made him open his door, standing on the porch to watch by far the closed
room Freya. Every time I sounded on the stairs creaked or lift gate,
the bearded sailor shook a child concern.

Wanted hide and at the same time wanted to look, if she was coming.

Guests who lived on the same floor you were seeing, to retire to their
quarters, the most inexplicable attitudes.

Sometimes he stood firm in the corridor, such as waiting to the home,
tired of futile appeals.

Other times I caught his head appear at the door ajar, withdrawing abruptly. An elderly Italian
count him went to pass a smile of intelligence and companionship ... I was in the secret! Waiting,
Undoubtedly, one of the maids of the hotel.

Finally get into the
room, but leaving the door open ... A rectangle of deep light that
is marked on the ground and the opposite wall would lead to Freya,
indicating the road.

Nor could he long maintain this signal. Ladies
badly covered with a kimono, lords pajamas, slipped quietly down the
hall on the quiet softness of her slippers, all in the same direction,
casting a look of anger toward the door, surprising light the secret
of their bodily misery.

Finally had to close the door. Opened a book,
and it was impossible to read two paragraphs in a row. Your clock
struck twelve.

- Do not come! ... Will not come! - Said in despair.

A
new idea served as a relief. It was impossible for one person dared
discreet as Freya to advance to his room watching light under the
door. Love needs dark and mystery. In addition, the expected visible
espionage could attract some curious.

He turned the power switch
in the dark and sought his bed, lying with a noise exaggerated, so
that nobody could doubt that he slept. This gloom revived their hopes.

-
Is coming ... Come from one moment to another.

Again got up cautiously,
without noise, tiptoeing. Had to provide difficulties in the entrance.
He left the door slightly ajar to prevent noise rotary knob. A chair
held his blade gently supported under the doorway.

Still got up several
times, shedding in each of these jumps from one part of their dresses.
So await better.

He stretched on the bed, ready to stay awake all
car if necessary. Should not sleeping, not wanting to sleep so ordered
his will ... Half an hour later asleep, without knowing what time
was left by the soft rolling hills of sleep.

He awoke suddenly, as
if he had been dealt a blow to the skull. His ears were ringing ...
It was a sharp impression of that desire to sleep without sleeping
and feel shaken by concerns resuscitator. It took a while to realize
their situation. Then I remembered all of blow ... Solo! ... She had
not come! ... Knew if they went after minutes or hours.

Another thing,
besides the concern, had returned to life. Guessed in the silent darkness
something approaching real. A little mouse seemed to move in the corridor.
Shoes positioned at one of the doors slid with a slight squeak. Ferragut
felt a vague impression air that moves with the slow progress of a
body.

Moved the door, the seat back gradually, gently pushed. In
the dark Moving Shadow was making a much more black and dense. He
made a movement.

- Stop! - Sighed a faint voice, a ghost, a voice
from another world -. Me.

But Ferragut had jumped down bed, moving
his hands in the shade. He stumbled over some morbid bare arms, then
with the soft freshness of meat wrapped in veils.

Instinctively brought
his right hand to the wall, and there was light.

Under the electric
lamp she was, a different Freya he had ever seen, with opulent hair
falling into serpents on his shoulders, completely naked inside an
Asian robe enveloped in a cloud