 

One of those trips back and shock that compassion was looking at her, and later that of usual.
It was known in his eyes that he had cried a lot, and walked all night through the house here
and there do not know anything with art. At times he was as alleles, and sometimes Rush felt a
restlessness that would not let her stop at anything. I saw it, without noticing it, more than
twice, in the twilight of Carrejo, worn with both despair hands to his head, and heard her invoke
the same time, his voice hoarse and poorly mastered, the "God of mercy became great 'and'
Our Lady of the Snows, the mother gracious and loving. " He wanted to die of early death, if the
desire is not sinned, before witness "of EYU" and stain the sight of his eyes such an embarrassment.
I feared for his reason; and moved by a feeling of pity, I got out to meet her. Not shocked
the me, as usual in such cases, on the contrary, seemed to calm down a little and revive my
presence, and even noticed it and wants to tell me something. Taken by reason, I spoke first
to reassure her, then to explore, to discover the breed even those trance mysteries so distressing
that the put.

- Not now! Not now - I said after some hesitation - and when it can not more ... when yield load
of me too, estonces! Estonces! ... Nah, you and only ... And Carida of God Don Marcelo, who,
today, do not let these ghosts ná just me, the Lord your uncle ... Naide or if be could! ...

Turned
away from me with this and ran to lock herself in her room, returning
me to my uncle seriously worried and not knowing what to think of
those strange things.

Nothing happened, fortunately, which would have required the presence of the unhappy woman in
any part of the house that night. Which should be very terrible for it, because I hardly I
had risen up out of bed the next day, and why so early as the sun appeared like a ghost in my
room after I asked permission to do half opening door carefully. Her eyes were sunken and surrounded
by an aura Cinderella; seemed that he had sucked the juice few witches face, on which fell
by under the handkerchief tied around his head, strands of gray hair curled, she trembled dry
lips, and out of his throat and a hoarse voice squeaking. Sank down knees before me and asked
for all the saints in heaven who heard as confession.

- Because - I finally said, sobbing badly compressed and spasms throughout the body - I can not
hold the load, and it was time to rid of her or die debaju of eya.

I, first of all that is incorporated and to sit in a chair inside the door shut the cabinet,
I sat down I immediately next to the unhappy woman, and I started
to hear, as she wanted, after directing words of sympathy and encouragement.

XXV

Two

parties had the confession of Facia.

At first I said everything I knew Chisco by mouth: the story of his unhappy marriage with the rogue
baratijero against the will and the wise warnings of my uncle who was like his father and master.