 Sometimes
the forms assumed burning logs bartered his imagination in people and happenings real, and so became
that home on stage, in which often represented the grim drama of his life.

The first act, as it was of little interest. After his early years, after next to his mother saw
his college life, sad life and no friends, so much influenced his character, making sullen and
withdrawn.

The second act began with a frightening picture. On the bed lay his mother's death, the it only
being loved, and next, standing contemplábala a severe man, almost
revolting: his father.

Sucedíanse other acts of the drama with fidelity. Don Alejandro ran major capitals of the world
in search of distraction, but all fled from him, be like a infectious, thus embittered his character
more and more. When returning home, he found his father was dying. Without feeling any pain, saw how
they turned out the existence of the author of his life.

The doctor indicated that no further action ... Came the priest,
but the dying stating he could only with great difficulty, the words:

-
The chest ...!

The room that was Don Alejandro kept many works of art and antiques. Among them, in a corner of
the room was a large iron chest, covered almost in its entirety, with brass nails and rivets.
This was, without doubt, the casket which the dying man had intended
to, but the key had been found and the secret if it was secret, has
been ignored.

For the thousandth time, Don Alejandro glanced towards the corner
of the room, and trembled to see that the hood was open.

The heavy lid resting against the wall, revealing the ancient and complicated mechanism of a
lock.

The old long remained without power away from that place the frightened eyes. For end, making a supreme
effort, he left his seat next to the fireplace, and a sense of terror, he went to the chest.
At first he could see nothing inside, but few moments later saw a
yellow rectangle lying on the bottom.

Hincóse knees and with trembling hands removed the object. It was an envelope, stained over
time, no sign of any kind.

Formidable sudden noise made him turn his head, frightened, and saw that the cover trunk had fallen
into place, closing it again.

He returned to the home side to read the contents of the envelope, but their hands were so trembling,
unable to verify. After a few moments, he managed to win on peace, opened the cover and with eyes
of terror, extracted the statement contained therein. But head was spinning and had to rely on
the chair to keep from falling to the ground.

Set of New eyes on the hearth, and saw clearly the dreadful scene of his death mother. Stunned,
looked the old man around furtively, afraid of being observed, and
decided make an effort to read the statement, but the paper ran away
from his trembling hands and fell the flames that consumed it voraciously.

Don

Alejandro looked toward the corner where there was a closed casket
and even closer to chimney, but, despite its proximity to the fire
was cold.

IMAGO Tristis

Talked, my friend and I, of indifferent and trivial.

The sun about to disappear, cast light upon the earth warm and reddish, and the heat coming through the
open window seemed to spread throughout the room. The columns of smoke from our cigarettes
light rose up together in clouds that were nesting in the coffered wooden ceiling, and damask
that covered the walls took on a richer tint than usual.

The conversation began to languish, and there came a time when both were silent, as if they
obey some mysterious command. I had some pride in that room, that putting together he possessed
more courage and deep affection, and was not the first time since my chair looked all over
the furniture and paintings that adorned.

Rafael also liked that collection and often praised, so I was not surprised to see it go to the
hearing this motley collection of objects. Across from where we sat, hung the wall a portrait bust
of my mother, dressed in the fashion of the Second Empire.

Despite light which at times grew fainter, the portrait stood out
very well, and was accentuated on his face the ineffable sweetness
that the painter had managed to faithfully reproduce.

I do not know how long silent. Suddenly I felt a rush of melancholy as and I looked at the
portrait. I shuddered at the sight, and I noticed that my friend suffered the same printing.
We looked at both, and he stands and said very softly:

- She's crying!

I nodded, and my partner to step softly, left the room and shut the
door after him carefully.

Then I seized with great anxiety, I went and saw the portrait is encouraged.

A cloud of sadness clouded my mother's face, and tears welled in her
eyes fell more abundantly.

They moved her lips and heard the voice again silenced than twenty
years.

- My son!

I feel great pity for you! The way you have to travel is rough and difficult, and great suffering
will be yours. That's why I feel so great pity for you. Never make anyone share in your troubles,
or your best friend always save them for you. Be stingy about your feelings, to tell nobody.
My son, how much compassion I feel for you!

                       The shadows of the night broke almost immediately and soon I was wrapped
in thick darkness.

Finally, after a short time is not turned on the light and opened the door. Rafael was in the gallery,
in the hollow of a window, and to me, seemed to wake from a dream.

- Rafael ...! I cried, but he interrupted me, saying:

- Do not tell me no, no, not me I'm your best friend!

And silently enter the room again. With artificial light, all things presented its usual appearance,
and the portrait of my mother Inaf sweetness of her face. Below him, on a table, was my last
sonnet, I took to read it to Rafael, and I found it was wet and smudged.

CHESS PLAYERS

A ROBERTO MONTENEGRO.

I

Anxieties, india tarasca purebred, was a teacher in the difficult art of caring and entertaining
children. For several years he served in my family, lavishing his care, in turn, five brothers
were. If our house was visited by an illness, Angus was always at the bedside, and when it came to
wipe away tears, the result some prank of boys, the kind word soon gave us comfort. But the science
of caring nanny was more apparent when we were happy. Inventing games new, truly bizarre gestures, thanks
to all classical features, or storytelling never imagined, made us very pleasant and the evening
hours, arrival time, could drive gently into the world of dreams. Another special gift of Sorrows
was the prompt response that led to the many pilgrims who used to ask questions the little people.
Such was the spontaneity of the response and so great aplomb with which the did, never put into question
by her proposed solution to any problem that was presented to our children's brains.

The memories of my childhood are closely linked to the Hacienda de San Isidro Labrador where he
resided most of the year. The farm, near Mexico City, was owned of the Society of Jesus from
the earliest times of the Colony, and when the famous religious were expelled from Spanish dominions,
for the reasons that Charles III had see fit to "in real breast," was purchased by my ancestor.
Understandably, then, the house of the Hacienda had more character monastery farm field, and
my father following the example of their elders, always wanted to retain the austere aspect which
initially had.

The rooms, all vaulted and very high; the endless cloisters with
semicircular arches, the walls, thick as a medieval castle, and mainly
fast throughout the region of natural wonders - they bore, as the
only galas, large maguey and one or eucalyptus in the middle of fields
of maize and barley - were of the Treasury San Isidro Labrador a place
that many repugnant, but others, in contrast, attracted by their very
nakedness and severity.

Needless to say I think for us it was a real "Buen retiro", in those
days still retained many of the customs of the Viceroyalty and my
father was for laborers and servants, rather than the master who should
be respected, the chief of an extensive family.

The chapel was perhaps the most interesting room of the Hacienda. It was not long, but he held huge
altarpiece of gilded wood churriguerra style, tiled plinth and pavement marble flagstones black and
white, alternating. What most struck me were the graves of my ancestors. Embedded in both side
walls of the presbytery, complained bitterly niches covered with slabs of alabaster tracks,
recorded with long epitaphs, and over once since I started reading, I was distracted at Mass
or Rosary, trying to decipher those signs, crossed and unintelligible to me.

One night on his way to my room, it occurred to this question:

- Angus, what do the dead of the chapel at night?

And India, without hesitation, replied:

- They play chess.

I almost every night, requiring the blessing of my father, I was in the library playing chess with
Don Pepe Dávalos, Mayor of neighboring villages, was not surprised response. A game in which
two men sat face to face for a long space time, without a word and without moving just the odd
pieces of wood between they had, and that lend themselves so admirably to play with toy soldiers,
a game and, again, I seemed especially designed to be dead for the living, and the response of
Sorrows was convincing.

- Yes, continued the housekeeper. Every night as you lie down to sleep, they become to play
chess until it reaches the Father to say mass. Then they return to their graves which, as it
were, their beds, and sleep during the day.

And having said the usual prayers for my parents and brothers, and another for my jerkin said,
for my horse "The Confite" fell asleep at the time.

II

Many years later, when I returned from Spain, married and with a woman of my own race, I found
the San Isidro Labrador things very different from when I left. My parents, two brothers and
Angus had gone of life, and Don Pepe Dávalos, deposed municipal sick and old wandered through
the cloisters, the chess games longing to "His Grace the Mr. Don Alonso. "I noticed the friendly
affection of many servants had amenguado thanks certain winds blew North fronds, and I felt
from the beginning marked repulsion by the new administrator of the Treasury, appointed by the
executor of my father. His name was Don Guadalupe Robles, and insolent appearance showed clearly that
it had once been bold and tough guerrilla chieftain.

Many feared that the Treasury had little appeal to my wife, but Agnes, used the austerities of Spanish
tower, San Isidro Labrador found much to his liking, and she suggested us to fix our residence
there.

After a few months, and approaching the owner of the land party, my wife, by dint good Madrid
suggested that the party was celebrated with special pomp. Therefore prepared clothes to distribute
to the poor flowers commissioned to adorn the house and chapel, and invited, Pontifical Mass
to sing, a certain bishop, who, since childhood, I called "Uncle
Bishop", but really lacked any relationship.

I agreed willingly, both to please Agnes, as I have found the occasion to make it look a lot
of objects, which, as a collector of antiques enthusiast, I boasted. The non-negligible flow
vestments and sacred vessels, which the Treasury had donated my ancestors,
I added a large collection of objects found some in dilapidated cities,
brought others from the Peninsula.

I was especially notable rich collection engraved silver, consisted of several dozen candlesticks,
large and small, lecterns, ornamental vases and planters, not a few torches, some chalices and
goblets, and a custody I was pleased that I attributed to Juan de Arfe and Villafañe. But what
I liked and showed I to my friends with great pride, was a game I learned in Cintra censers. Work
Portuguese full of XVIII century, will be understood of course that such sachets were to be
extravagant, in fact, measuring two feet high, and affected the unusual form of Pegasus, but his
work was so complete, that really could be in the best collection of art objects.

With all these elements, I realized that the magnificent altarpiece, whose intricate covered
litter the main wall of the chapel with twisted columns and pilasters, pediments interrupted
whimsical brackets and canopies sheltering niches and polychrome sculptures, would shine the
rich and if you want great set of gold and silver, like a glowing ember, and started to make preparations
with no little enthusiasm.

Arriving on the eve of the feast, I went into the chapel to arrange and vínoseme to my mind a world
of memories. Watching the funeral allegories and signs reading of the gravestones, which worried
both my childhood years, I saw again a thousand incidents of my childhood
and listened once again, the voice of loved ones, including Angus,
whom I dogmatically asserted that my dead played chess every night
....

I ran the placement of the various ornaments on the altar and
sanctuary, where Don Guadalupe Robles went to the chapel, under the
pretext of consulting agreement does not end administration of the
estate, and gathered there to see the flow, greed reflected in his
face making direct eye while talking with me, one by another object,
whose existence is not even suspected.

Then it was more my disgust for this man, and I certainly believe that this attempt to rob me,
that throughout the night I could not dismiss this thought in my
mind, and left the bed very early, when still asleep silent masters
and servants.

With the first light of dawn, I entered the chapel. At first glance, most objects remained in the
places where you placed the day before, but what Judge yourself would be my amazement, seeing that
a large number of candlesticks, vases and other lay scattered on the ground in utter chaos! Nothing
remained standing, cornered in an angle below choir, four objects. I approached, and a shiver ran
through my body. The dead had played a game of chess!

Yes, there in the corner, on the tile white, was a brazier, and in front of him, except a row
of tables, and occupying their respective boxes, a vase, a small spotlight and one of the perfumers,
this is the closest to the wall. Yes these three parts - the bishop, pawn and knight, - had
been mated to the brazier or the King!

After some time, I could control myself and I said with a trembling hand on the different sites
objects, so that no more than I realized the event.

The party was held properly, and both the Bishop and the friends who visited our invitation,
there were languages ??of the beauty and richness of my collection. But I paid little attention
to such compliments, seized my mind with the enigma and the suspicions harbored against Don Guadalupe
Robles. These increased when I surprised him at dusk, in the shadows the corridor, talking
quietly with Joaquin, his fellow man abutment and confidence. I pretended not seeing them,
and I passed, but decided to pack my antiques and forwarding to Mexico
as soon as possible, as he found me the opportunity to get rid of
the Administrator.

                I do not know how long after having been asleep, broke the silence
of the night such a scream of terror, which continues and will continue
ringing in my ears as I live.

The heard my wife and woke up scared, I heard the servants all, and in a few moments, cloisters
were populated by shadows, voices of fear inquired what was happening.

I took a flashlight and followed by the most resolute, I directed my steps towards the site
fearful whence the cry seemed to proceed. The vestry door was open
and I realized my suspicions were confirmed.

Entered. Or in the sacristy, or in the chapel had more light than the dim light shining through
windows and domes, and at first nothing could distinction, but little, the flickering light
of the lantern showed us that all objects silver, absolutely all, were huddled beneath the choir, fencing, imprisoning
in the corner, Don Guadalupe Robles, who, with his body leaning back,
and recoiling, extending both arms against the walls of that corner
of the chapel.

His eyes were their orbits, and all his face was an image of terror. I called him by name, looked
at me his answer was staring and laughing.

KING'S HAT TIBOTU

STORY FOR CHILDREN.

Julio Torres

The King of Tibotú had (naturally) three children. The elder was called Chapachapa, the second
Chopochopo, and less Chipichipi. The king was very rich, had seventeen umbrellas all colors,
a green cap and yellow-tail, very funny, and a top hat, so tall that bordered as monumental.
The queen, pundits, and was wearing blue socks polyglot: when something fell very much in favor, spoke
in Chinese, and when angry, screaming in Catalan.

The kingdom was composed, in addition to the populous city of Tibotú, two islands. Was harvested
in a lots of coffee and dairy cattle were numerous, in the other cocoa producing and had very good
bakers and confectioners. The islands were commonly known by 'La-isla-de-café au lait " and
"La-isla-de-chocolate-with-buns."

Tibotú royal family lived happily for many years, but one night the king ate at dinner, a whole roasted
piglet, and died a few hours, surrounded by his wife and children.

After nine minutes, nine seconds, according to the Ceremonial of that Court, wait before opening
the testament of the deceased monarch, was found last provision of the autocrat was that his
populous city of Tibotú happen to his beloved wife, and Islanders'
Café au lait 'and' Chocolate-to-buns "to his two sons, and Chopochopo
Chapachapa, respectively.

As Chipichipi, his father legábale hat.

Imagine the joy of the spouse and grown children, Benjamin and anger
of the house. What he wanted an old hat, dirty and so little artistic?

Prince
invaded the mind of such fury, that dropped to the ground and the
despised garment propinóle a strong kick. But in doing so, he felt
a sharp pain in the foot, as if struck against a stone. With still
greater fury, picked up his hat and started cutting it with great
courage, but, behold, he found, between the liner and the cup, something
hard, rock, indeed larger than a hen's egg, although not as much as
an ostrich, it was red as blood of a pigeon and the sun shone in a
surprising way. It was nothing less than a ruby.

I must not refer
to the feeling that this finding resulted in the entire world. Suffice
it to say that all the crowned heads, and many who were not, disputed
the possession of so magnificent gem. Most were interested in obtaining
the President of the English Republic, Grand Duke of Texcoco and Mr.
Elihu P Goggles, Paradise, Texas. Needless to say, this seems last
and was famous billionaire who bought the precious stone, paying for
it ten seven million dollars in gold, and seventeen in "Liberty Bonds"
in the seventeenth issue, and calling himself, thereafter, "The Ruby
King ', or' The King's Ruby."

Of course, Chipichipi invested their
money and gave great life. He bought a car "Ford", a police dog, and
a Dictionary of the Academy. Instead his brothers were ruined: coffee
was lost, and dairy cattle died, the cocoa price fell and bakers and
bakers went on strike perpetual.

And whenever they talked about the
top hat of her late husband, the Queen exclaimed pundits, Portuguese:

"In
all things, insignificant they may seem, there is some value for those
who can find it.