 

And in tears fell on his daughter with the double purpose of preventing the lift and continue in
this terrible rebuke against the unknown gentleman. Prudence or remorse, it was silent and bowed
his head lower. He, however, was very upset and fought with himself to make a decision. Because, providing,
had come to be made available to the recriminations, it seems fair to the patient, who, though
delusional he reproached her daughter's loss and ruin of his reason. But he did not defend himself.
He was, in contrast, humiliated, highly offended by their intentions as being the purer, guided
by the desire for the good of all those immediately concerned, the result had very disastrous
path. In the eyes of his own conscience justification was easy, the world, however, should be
judged by the facts. And this trial it was him Serval horror.

Meanwhile continued the struggle between mother and daughter.

This, with frightened eyes, disheveled hair, his forehead covered with copious sweat, cheeks
flushed by fever, repelled with both hands to the mother and repeated: - Let me, mama, let
me see that face of a heretic. I ask my daughter's account. The I removed it, he, entrails
of a beast. And the mother, always in tears flooded her in his arms, he replied: - By love of
God, my daughter, by the Immaculate Conception of Mary, for your health, the Your daughter,
who is alive and well, shut up, calm down. I'll beg for heaven's sake.

But as the struggle drags on, the gentleman approached the bed, took his hand of the patient,
which she rejected, and deep voice, but filled with exquisite tenderness, he said:

- Charlie, listen. I promise that tomorrow you will see your daughter.
Back at you. Calm down!

No more crazy.

Séase that deal runs out both the forces that impose respect séase voice the unknown, it is certain
that the patient, breathing a deep sigh, fell suddenly back on the
pillow and lay there motionless for a short time. Unless the mother
did not believe, at first, but had expired