 Wow, that is
good! Well I say it or print it on paper! That, my master, Don Marcelo, and the jito is passed
over as much of right ... and no good.

Well, well, it's an idea! - This is Lituca, put your finger on the sore, neither more nor less,
and call things by their names, even though you apparently believe
otherwise to pass the buck ... and pardon me the frankness. - But
if you have not reached that case, trapacerón of the devil, how do
I answer him? - In the event that I have come to you the question.
- But you know better than me what is said than done. - It is true
that I know, not better, but, on the traces, as well as you, and yet,
I insist on the question, leaving us eventually more or less possible
or probable and placing in the real and positive and practicable .

And so I ask again: today, this minute,
as you are, as you think and feel, which of the above suitors choose?

Which of these do you
think, today, right now, I'd be happier having you for a husband?
- But, my heavenly Mother!

... Look who is the subject of this
man of Satan!

How am I to tell me these things? - As others
say, Lituca ... - Well, I told endenantes, and perfectly clear. - And
answered perfectly clear to you that it was impossible to ask. -
For that reason I ask ... That same desire now. - I do not agree
that response to my question.

There was now living as you live, and here it is live otherwise
very different. - Then call it hache, yet with it. - I can not I
call it. - And come on, Jesus is Lord, to the rattle!

How can any soul of God, that you tell? - In Castilian current ... by
law ... no escape lanes. - Lifetime !...-- and here he made a grimace
of impatience of most magicians I've seen a woman, and even gave two
slaps on her lap, and then, straightening and stiffening the cunning
head slightly voice and gesture, he said -: "And in sum and discharge,
what obligation do I have to declare it, nor does it matter to the
Nah, you know?

I pretended to take seriously and as a hard lesson these words and
only replied to them to forgive my boldness ... Then let the rogue
other laugh, and said in a tone that showed the largest casual desire,
if by chance I was really annoyed me: - So now that the shock to punish
the mischief, for mischief is, and large, the coaxing a woman who
never had thoughts ... But Tochon on me - suddenly exclaimed ruefully
clasping his hands and the face -.
