 The paintings that adorn the walls are rough and disproportionate. Silver
jewelry are many and great, although his work is very polished, except for some another piece.
The vessels are too many and better work, and some of them gold; ornaments are also many, rich
and expensive. So, although the service worship God and no wealth can be said to be excessive,
however, attending the poverty of the people and their natural, it seems that exceeded this.
Towers or wooden steeples are formed of four pillars or pitchforks thick and high, with two
or filed three others do so many bodies, and tejadito. These towers are in the backyards main
adjacent to the same churches, and in them many bells of various sizes, some quite large and
good sounds, most are cast in these peoples.

One of the things I've noticed is that, with the churches of these
people so many jewels silver, even some necessary purpose, and many
of them duplicate the same use, have not used part of the silver crowns
of the images of the Mother of God, glows fireweed crucifixes and
saints, is very rare in which the image silver ornaments have been
used whatsoever.

The same goes for the busts of Jesus of Nazareth, on the various steps of his passion, of the Virgin
and other saints who take on the Holy Week processions, all these are about bad carved pieces of
wood and painted worse, without any decoration on their bodies, or in walk in that place, and
these are some kind of malformed litters, and it seems that should have put into this more than
anything else your dedication, for, as the representation of these steps brings to mind the
work of our redemption is very convenient the busts of Jesus, the Virgin and other saints are
well trained and decorated, mostly among these people, they come the species by sight than
by hearing, and could have used part of the rich fabrics that were used in ornaments in decent
clothes of these images and other ornaments from them.

The duties of divine worship for the church made them with great solemnity, but did not put much
care into what belonged to the spiritual good of the souls of his parishioners, because as explained
Mr. Don Manuel Antonio de La Torre, bishop of Buenos Aires, in the report that led to Don Francisco
Bucareli Excellency, the Governor of that city, dealing with the
marking of the new synod priests who replaced the Jesuits, they did
not apply any of the Masses for the dead, or of the holidays for the
people or to be singing on Monday for the souls in purgatory, nor
had the Blessed Sacramento home for the sick, for them, when they
had to manage, they carried and put in a house or chapel, opposite
the church, and there administered alone, succeeding sometimes that
will take or make them die of cold in some way.

This custom remained some time later. I even caught two of the people under my command which
ceased at a hint of mine, the rest was practiced according to what will express Later, when this question
of divine worship. As in most current priests have followed the custom which they found, as practiced
by the Indians themselves, except such a thing to have altered little consideration, and if they
had any other special, I ignore.

The place of the Jesuits was replaced by religious of the three orders: Santo Domingo, San Francisco
and La Merced, for each village were appointed two priests to titles cure and companion, pointing
to each other synod, as mentioned above.

For the appointment of religious is to serve the use of cure formalities are kept laws that prevent
the royal patronage, making the provincial nomination, presentation the Vice Patron, and giving
the institution the diocese, but the companions are appointed by the provincial, and with the
approval and the Vice Patron passes are to take their fate, leaving taken right in the courts
of the royal treasury for the payment of their synods.

After the priest comes to the governor of the province or department lieutenant whose district
is the village of their destination, having regard to their titles, order shipped to the council
and administrator who in turn receive it, and will come with a living,
as it is sent in the ordinances.

With this order and its securities are presented in the village, and the priest who ceases makes
formal delivery of the parish, books, church, vestry and ornaments. Attending all the council and
administrator, recognize if the ornaments and jewels of the church are complete, as the first
inventory, noting what to write, and give part of the immediate implementation superior.

The partners are licensed by their provincial and order of the Vice Patron, and through she
is admitted without hand them anything.

Calls into question, yet I doubt if these brothers are two cures, or at least if both have equal
loads. This doubt arises from it, enjoying the same and different synods, must be seen different
benefits, and therefore everyone should have their burdens attached particular or share common
together all of the parish. To that is added, if only to appointed priest is bound by the burdens
of the parish, and companion to the priest I'll tackle the certification
it should be given by the priest, the priest and the council, as that
managed care is the people, but not, because each religion separately
certification is given, but the priest can remove or put in giving
his companion.

Besides this, the year of 82, by royal decree, issued edicts of the illustrious Bishop Buenos Aires,
calling the priests who would oppose the parishes of ten seven Indian
villages of the bishopric, and calls His Eminence for each village
two individuals for priests, saying that the synod of each are 200
pesos, and added the Honourable Member Excellency that the people
of Yapeyú only call one another cleric to be provided and in it.

It can be inferred that the job of healing and partner are two different benefits, each with its
ancillary charges, or that all of the parish are common to both, and must divide each other
equally. But it remains the only cure appointing brings titles so, with all due formalities,
and the partner, but for the enjoyment of the synod are sufficient to bring in no way can
be for the administration of sacraments; with the exception of the confession, because that
only leads to license the Bishop, and need for the rest of the village priest that is intended.

Although
it regularly often acquiesce and fellow priests, starting each work no longer offered some dissension
about this, claiming that some priests should only colleagues do what they command them determinedly,
and nothing more; others Instead they want the partners have the same obligations and charges them
and co want all Masses to be applied to the parishioners are of by the priest, and no one there
to resolve this doubt, nor has sought to consult Superiority. But the truth is that partners
do not happen in their religion, particularly those of San Francisco, as long as they have for their
retirement, telling only those who have served cures.

Of these principles that the religious born peers do not recognize superiority in priests, and they dare
to force them and treat them as subjects, so that neither superior know anyone in this province,
because of royal patronage of the Governor and deputy wardens are only a warning that we must
consider what the Vice Patron worthy of his notice, and nothing else. By regular and diocesan bishops,
no more than Vicar or exercising any jurisdiction, and thus is no wonder that have happened many
disorders in these villages, so far away the resources, and so linked
the three real courts, episcopal and regular, and more frequently
they participate in all three jurisdictions, the causes that originate,
which gives body and promote the widespread ignorance of all.

The governor and lieutenant are far and without any knowledge of the laws, and so we can not using
them, even with the method and reliability form a legal case, the religious usually does not know
more than any moral theology, and no civil law, or canon. Here there is no law professor that
sometimes by not err, and others to avoid scandals, it is necessary that the most prudent
yield the field to the proud, and if disorders because nature can not be tolerated as a record,
and da part with him to the Superior, is so full of nonentities, some by excess and other default the
higher courts are pregnant with them, and can not resolve anything. So to view this is not surprising
nothing happened, before you wonder does not happen more.

When it happens on a sick priest, who is alone in his village, and can not attend the performance
of his ministry, and give part to the governor or lieutenant immediately, it has no other measure
that writing a letter rogatory to another priest or partner of those in which there are two religious
people, expressing the need, and if he does not want to go supplement, not be compelled. It has
happened to have the governor to write to many, without find one that would go to meet one of these
needs.

Although the councils and other canonical provisions is commanded that the priests do not absent
their parishes but in the time and the reasons there indicated, and the license of the prelates
and others who can give them, this is not observed any of this. Out of the frequent Absences do
priests and peers within the same province of some other peoples connection with church functions,
and other individuals that may leave only the people from office for some days, other absences
are outside the province on the occasion to go to Buenos Aires to collect the synods, and Corrientes
and Paraguay to see their relatives. To these absences, which are always of months, and perhaps
of the year or years, which is usually presented the district governor or lieutenant asking
the pass for the journey to be undertaken, the that is granted as part of the government is secular,
and with this single requirement They hit the road, the capital will be presented, negotiated
the payment of their synods and others ranging, and not by their
religion, nor by the bishop, they do charge.

I guess they have given tacit license, and the religious use of it at such times need it, because
otherwise I do not know how they can compose their consciences.

As time Jesuit priests ruled anything in these villages, the Indians used to bring all cases
to them, continued the same after the expulsion, with religious that took its place. Here, some
through ignorance and others to expand their jurisdiction, seized
of them, as if rightfully belong, and although the government sought
to remedy and got separated from such illegal and harmful abuse, have
always remained strong religious to want to deal with cases which
by their nature correspond to the judges clergymen, and others are
of mixed jurisdiction, such as concubinage, quarrels between married
and the like, without the government was able to separate them from
those claims.

Although this will make them know that the jurisdiction of priests does not extend the jurisdiction
outside, having no particular committee of the bishop or vicar general of the bishopric, and
so it should not hear any external cause or impose convictions or arrest Indians much less fulminate
censures, as they have done before, because this is reserved for ecclesiastical judges, who are
not priests, but even if they abstain, it is with very great disgust.

In the way of celebrating the divine office seems to have shaped the practice cures ancient
peoples had, learning from the Indians, because the uniformity substantial as is observed in all the
towns it says a lot. Every Sunday and holidays of the year is announced the day before the
prayers, with ringing of bells, repeated at dawn, and sunrise, or shortly after the first ring
is given to call people to the church, repeating two with intermission of six or eight minutes
between and another. At which time meets all the local people in the church, and there, doing chorus
any tax or other old educated, and sometimes more skilled guys, pray the prayers Christian
doctrine, then the priest or partner is, and explains some point
of doctrine, using a little moral to the same extent as regularly
spent half an hour; and concluded with the bell warn that it will
begin the Mass, the priest celebrating the or partner with some solemnity,
because the music is large, and regularly trained musicians.

The altar is decorated with many lights, some wax and tallow other, accompanying the priest at the
altar six boys from ten to twelve years, dressed in Autumn Sotanillo the days the church dressed in
white or red, and on the other colors are the same as the church uses, and more or less expensive rochets
and decent, as the Day holiday. Two of these guys serve the censer and navetas other two candlesticks
and the remaining two go to the rest of the altar, they are quite skilled and ready. Besides these
there are around the altar boys two or more Indians sacristanes, but no ecclesiastical robe, but
neat, they are there to pierce the veils, set fire censers, or to pull up chairs and other similar
occupations. Upon exiting the Mass Indians announce at the door of the church, the threshold
for inside, with a touch of boxes and trumpets, for never missing six or eight in this occupation,
causing such uproar to bewilder those who are in church, while repeating the same gospel, the
Sanctus, to lift host and chalice, the second rise and the last gospel.

If some have confessed, given the Holy Communion after the priest consumes, and Mass killing sing
the treble of the music on the blessed and praised, in a tone so
sweet and graceful, which repeats all the common people and in destroying
retire to their homes.

In villages where there are two monks would be most appropriate in the days of obligation for
the Indians, one Mass said earlier, that those patients who attend were to hear, while leaving
other caregivers, and so those or those for their nakedness can not go to church, would be provided
by others and other clothing to hear Mass, but it is very rare in people who practice it. In
the most Masses are said to time, so that those who have these or other impairments can not hear,
nor which the people are employed in keeping the chacarería, which, as was suspicious thefts night
and early Mass is said, can not come to hear, what they might do if the mass most are held at a
regular time, although they were all night in your occupation had time from dawn to come to
church without any suspicion.

All other days of the year, non-provision for the Indians, although they are for Spanish, two Masses
are said at sunrise or earlier, and in some towns after dawn, so that many are left without hearing
if neglected in early, because of which originate some of the divisions among priests and administrators.
On all days, although the mass is recited, attend music and sing in the chorus Kyrie, Glory,
Creed and Sanctus, and sing everything being sung Mass, and I play drums and make the same noise
in the holidays.

Every evening they pray the rosary in the church, one hour before the sun sets, in There is also
a difference of some people to others, according to the will of the priest.

Solemnized in the year some parties more special than the others, such as major of Our Lord
Jesus Christ and the Virgin, St. Michael, the Patriarch of the Holy religion of priests, on the King
Our Lord and his birthday.

These days the festival is announced with ringing of bells at noon yesterday, at which time
most of the people attends the church where the priest with the music sings the Magnificat,
and later singing vespers solemn, preceded by the ringing of bells,
repeating the prayers and encouragement, as well as at the dawn of
another day, and to convene the mass, which acts in music with more
solemnity than other days, and then executed in the village some public
entertainment, and gives some special interests and other things as
mentioned above.

The function that most stands alone amongst these is the patron saint of the village head, for
it is they invite some people's religious immediate, so that on the eve and Mass dress of deacons
and others to assist other ministries of the altar, is charged in advance the sermon is preached,
half and half in Guaraní in Castilian, whose diligence is carried out the council and manager,
but is reported before the priest, who also attends invite the religious who are to attend the
function and in the time they arrive the people on the eve of the feast day of receiving them
at the door of the church priests with the ringing of bells and music, and the same practice
with the governor and lieutenant of the department whether that condition,
which can only ceremony abuse excuse being introduced from time of
the Jesuits, that they practiced with their priests, and that failure
to do so now would miss Indians, the rest of these functions is already
said elsewhere.

The next day is celebrated in the towns of this department, available to me, an anniversary for
the souls of the children of the village, with vigil Mass and solemn responsibility, and apply
all the religious who attend Mass that day, paying his fee of the common people.

Easter functions are quite solemnity and devotion, but with little
processions decency, so imperfect and unadorned images of everything
serves them.

In some towns, processions start from the Monday of Holy Week, but most common is from Wednesday,
this day a later sing in the church of darkness with all music, with
such solemnity as they could in a collegiate, where it is admirable
to hear the lamentations and others singing lessons to kids of eight
or ten years old, Latino-owned but not because they do not understand
what they read, and can not pronounce well Latin or Castilian, because
they lack in the language of the letters L, F and R, rough, but well
drawn and true to the music.

Duran darkness until the prayers, at which time, while the Miserere mei Deus, closed the doors and turned
off the lights, hit rigorously the Indians soon after talk of passion is in the Guarani language,
which was ended, the available to the procession in this way.

Images ready to be out in the procession, and early music through church, go through the door,
falling into the courtyard of the school, several boys dressed with Sotanillo and surplices of
servers, with the instruments and symbols of the Passion of Christ. Enter one of these with
the lantern, and two sides with two lanterns made of cloth bowels of the bulls, placed at the tip of
long stalks, kneels before the image is in the midst of the church,
and meanwhile the music sings a motet in Guarani expressing that step,
which is completed and continue to raise these kids get in order in
the procession, and enter another with other insignia, and well keep
following until completion all of which are perhaps twenty or more,
and logos that are so crude and materials the rope is a loop bonding,
a leather whip of what they used to punish the steps that Good Friday
is for the descent, and so do the rest.

After that just happened, stands the priest and others who have been sitting in the meantime, and follow
the procession, which comes out and walk around the plaza, which is illuminated, and willing altars
in the four corners to make stops. Across the square are many Indian penitents, and among
some Indian women who each other was hit savagely, making the puncture Some back and thighs,
where the blood runs in abundance, others big burden crosses on their shoulders, others cross-reeled
or put others in chains, etc. In some people running on the plaza steps meeting Veronica, the Virgin
and St. Juan, as well as the deposition of Good Friday, but these steps have apparently been introduced
after the expulsion, because neither are common to all peoples, and is in All images on purpose for
them, nor the priests served the Indians to run, particularly the
descent, but the Spanish who come together in those days there.

What time the Jesuits were practiced some more serious and dissonant penances The secular priests and
superiors have forbidden the present time, and yet this This year I warned that one of the people
in my office had been renewed several of them Indians, whose results
were abused some of the face and body, both that many days were unable,
being abused by foreign hands, so I rebuked those who arranged and
prevenídoles not do it again.

Holy Thursday Mass is celebrated with great solemnity, in which the regular communicant council,
and then carries the Blessed Sacrament in procession around the church and is placed on the
monument which, though badly painted racks of linen, is catching on some villages, and all are
decorated with silver ornaments there, with many lights, but most are tallow candles.