 The boat and cargo care less ... Iban seven men in it, and I have
also sailed well ... Strive to ensure that families do not lack bread.

Other times, his sorrow was sincere, and ironically expressing his lips pursed, "A government cutters
just captured a boat. "And everybody laughed, knowing that Toni left some months you cogiesen
a boat with some bundles of old snuff, so that pursuers may hold in this way a triumph. When there
was epidemic in ports Africa, the island authorities powerless to save a vast coastline, called
Toni, appealing to the patriotism of Mallorca, and the smuggler promised to temporarily stop in their
browsers or charging at another point to avoid infection.

Febrer had this tough guy, cheerful and generous, fraternal trust. Many times had told his troubles
to seek the advice of his peasant cunning. He, who was unable apply for a loan from friends of the Casino,
Tony accepted the money in difficult times money did not seem to
remember more the smuggler.

Upon meeting they shook hands.

"Have you been in Valldemossa ?...» knew Toni and her journey the ease with which the most
insignificant news circulating in the monotonous environment and
calmly in a provincial town eager curiosity.

- More feature - Toni
said in his Mallorcan farmer - something I think is a lie.

You say that you marry the Don Benito Valls atlota?

Febrer, amazed that they knew as soon as their purpose, dared not deny. Yes, it was true. Toni
just wanted to confess.

The smuggler made a gesture of repulsion, while his eyes, accustomed
to the biggest surprises, revealing awe.

- You are wrong, Jaime,
you are wrong.

She said gravely, as if addressing a solemn affair.

The sausage had with that friend of a trust that would not have dared
with any other ...

- But if I'm ruined, my dear Toni!

If none of what I have in my house is mine! If creditors only respect me in the hope of this
marriage! ...

Toni kept moving his head.

The rude peasant, the smuggler Adventures of laws, seemed stunned
by the news.

- Anyway, you are wrong.

You leave your troubles as you can, but otherwise ... Friends help
you.

"Marry you with a chueta? ...

Left him with a vigorous handshake, as if he saw him go into a danger death.

- You are wrong ... think about it - said reproachfully -. You are wrong, Jaime!

IV

When James got into his bed, three hours after midnight, he thought he saw in the dark the faces
of the master bedroom Valls and Toni Clapp.
Seemed to speak, as in the previous evening. "I object," repeated
the sailor with laughter ironic. "Do not do that," advised the smuggler
with a serious expression ...

He had spent the night at the Casino,
silent and sullen under the obsession of these protests. What was
your draft strange and absurd that it repelled chueta, despite be
an honor to his family, and that peasant rude and unscrupulous, who
lived almost outlaw? ...

It was true that the island this marriage
would produce scandals and protests, but what about him? ... Did not
he have the right to seek their salvation by any means? Was it a novelty
that people of the class tries to rebuild his fortune through a wedding?