 It is a cenotaph in the field funeral, with willows, many flowers
... It is night.

"

- What night?

- I mean, to give melancholy landscape of substance, it should put
everything in some darkness ... There will be water there, there,
far away, a tranquiiiila surface, a polished espeeeejo ... Do you
understand me?

...

- What is it?, "Water glass ...?

- A lake, lady, one, kind of bay. Mind you: the willow branches extend
well ... as if it dripped.

Through the foliage is hard to see the disk of the moon, whose pale
light audience the tops of the distant hills, and produces a temblorcito
... Are you?, A temblorcito on the surface ...

- Oh, yes ... water.

Understood, understood. What happens to you ...!

- Well, madam, for this nice effect would take me a few gray hairs.

- Jesus, gray! ... I giggled trouble you for one thing we have so about ... You see my harvest,
Mr. D. Francisco. I would not want to provide you in such abundance these moonbeams that it
needs ... With this addition (Taking a long and hearty.) gray hair
will not cry you by ...

Brinker took the white lock of hair, and
with the others, oprimiolo all against your chest spasm artist.

He had, oh joy!, Two-tone gold, clear and shiny silver, ebony and sienoso brown and romantic
that it had to be the dominant note.

"What we expect of the righteousness of you - Carolina said, hiding
the distrust with courtesy - is that in no case enter into the work
that is not our hair.

Everything hair has to do with family. "

- Lady, for Christ's sake!

... "I think you can adulterate ...?

- No ... no, if you do not say ... Is that artists, when they are driven by inspiration (Laughing)
lose all idea of ??morality, and so to achieve an effect ...

- Carolina! ...

He left the house a good friend, feverish and tembliqueante. His epileptic condition of the
artistic gestation. The work, recently embodied in his mind, and with intimate announced rebullicios
I was a living being, and developed potent pressing the walls of the brain and exciting nervous
couple, who had unexplained sensations of choking to breath, to hormiguilla epidermis, a restless
limbs, and being all impatience, fear, I do not know what else ... At the same time his imagination
was given away in advance with the image of the work, already appeared kidding, throbbing,
complete, finished, in the shape of the mold to be. Other times one appeared to be born in
parts, hovering now a member, then another, until all appeared in the entire kingdom of light.
My patient saw the cenotaph of mixed idealistic orders of architecture,
the angel weeping willow with its branches hanging ruefully, as drivel
that you fall into the sky, the flowers all over the floor enamelled,
the terms remote lake with all the sadness and lunacy ... Interrupting
this beautiful vision of non-work cream, flamed in the brain of the
artist as wisps mode (natural add something as funeral), some ideas
atañederas budget work.

Bringas the caressing, by providing care that practical man who did
not rule on spasmodic him the uneasiness of the great creation.

Mentally counting, said:

III

"Shellac: Two and a half reales. A pull all five will spend real ... Florist tongs, as the
ones I have are a bit thick: three real. A very clean glass: real and a half. Four pistils dozens
of very tiny, unless you can make hair, which I will try: two and
a half.

Total: fifteen reais. Then comes the most expensive, which is the convex glass the framework,
but I use the embroidered dog of my cousin Joseph, giving a hand glitter. Finally, with glitter,
convex glass, hanger and unexpected ... come to matter all about twenty-eight to thirty real. " 

The
next day was Sunday, he set to work. Not liking any of the designs funeral monument in his
collection had resolved to make one, but such was not the card by the invention, composed, with
parts taken from different works, the whole securely locked previously described. Willow came to
the tomb of Napoleon in St. Helena, and the angel pouted the mound had been placed in the
Escorial for the funeral of a Women's Fernando VII, and the background was taken from a grabadito
not know what tome Lamartinesco that he was a pure syrup.

Finally, the flowers harvested in Bringas garden of an illustrated book on the language of those
who came from the library Dona Candida.

This preliminary work took the artist drawing an average week, and
was so pleased him, he had granted to himself in the silence of false
modesty, ardent congratulations.

"It's all so typical - Pipaón enthusiastically telling the smart - which seems to be watching
still waters and the rays of the moon making it as a light tickle ...».

Bringas stuck on the drawing board, and put the glass up, adapting and fixing so that no one could
move. This done, the rest was pure work of skill, patience and neatness. Was to be expressed with
hairs stuck on the upper surface of the glass all lines of the drawing underneath was, really
tricky task because of the difficulty to manage something as subtle and elusive as the human hair. At
least the main lines bad, but when it came to represent shadows, lined by more or less fine,
the employed artist series of hair cut to size, which was carefully gluing with shellac, hot
streak to mimic chisel steel plate or boxwood. In very fine inks, Bringas was extreme and subtilized
his art to become what microscope. He was an innovator. No capilífice had discoursed until then
to score points hair, picking this with scissors to get little bodies that appeared to molecules,
and paste then these points near each other, never together, so that would imitate the point of
intaglio. Used for this very fine brushes, and even birds feathers edged with saliva; and
then minced on a glass hair, was taking each point to put in place, previously smeared with paint.
The combination of tones increased the tangled verbosity of this work, since for harmonic results,
it was appropriate to put here brown, black beyond, by this other part blonde, gold angel hair,
silver in all that was below the jurisdiction of the moonlight. But all that blessed triumphed.
And why not, if your hands seemed to not touch things, if vision was like a lynx, and her fingers
had to be fingers of the breeze that caresses the flowers without ajarlas? ... What a devil
of a man! Would been able to do a string of grains of sand, if you put it, or reproduce the cathedral
of Toledo in a hazelnut shell.

The entire month of March took him in the memorial and the willow, whose leaves were sprouting one
by one, and in mid-April was the angel arms and head. Many saw this wonder quedábanse captivated
by the originality and beauty of it and put a D. Francisco between most eminent artists, ensuring
that if he saw such a extranjerazo work, some inglesote rich type that usually come to Spain
in search of good things, give a cheer for her of money and would lead to countries who appreciate
the works of genius.

Bringas had his workshop in the hollow of a huge window overlooking the Campo del Moro ...

Because the family lived in the palace in a second floor rooms that serve shelter employees
of the royal family.

Enthralled with the work of hair, I forgot to say that back in February of 68 D. Francisco was
appointed first officer of the Municipality of Real Heritage with thirty thousand pieces of
salary, medical manor, pharmacy, water, firewood and other advantages inherent in the vicinity
regia. Such canonjía realize the aspirations of his life, and will not change his position so that
Thiers high, safe and respectful to the chair of the Primate of Spain. Embittered his satisfaction
the voices that ran in that year 68 convicted whether or not there horrific conditions, and fear
that the so-called revolution finally broke out with a bang. Although the idea of ??finishing
of the monarchy always sounded good in the brain of man as an absurd idea, sort of as the imbalance
of the planetary orbs, where in a café or gathering heard predictions
binge, blind ads or gloomy comments about how bad they were the government
and Queen, came a shiver, and his heart contracted until brought to
an, in his opinion, the size of an acorn.

One hundred and twenty four steps needed to upload D. Francisco Women's ladder for get from the
second floor patio of the Palace, which is flat with the third being a true city, set on the
magnificent ceiling of the royal abode. This city, where alternate peacefully aristocracy, middle
class and people, is a real republic that the monarchs have corona, and set into its vast circuit,
keeps samples of all different kinds of people. The first time D. Manuel Pez and I went to
visit in his new Bringas home, we were lost in this labyrinth where neither he nor I had ever entered.
Stepping its first site, entering the ladder of Damas, a goalkeeper with three-cornered hat,
after the descent take us, indiconos the way we had to continue to give the our friend's house. "They
twist you left, then right ... There is a ladder.

Then down again ... Number 67.

"

IV

That if you want! ... We walked through the hallway of red tiles, which I call street or alley
in its magnitude, being lighting in some areas with gas burners and the angles and turns it
does. Here and there we found spaces, which no doubt called squares, flooded with sunlight, which
came through big holes open to patio.

The light of day, reflected by the white walls, penetrated along the walkways, alleys, tunnels or whatever
call them, are lost and fainted in them, to death in full view of the red gas fans, that fluttered
trembling within a circle and smoked under a brass canopy.

Found ourselves everywhere paneled doors, some freshly painted, faded and moth-eaten other,
numbered: but in any discovered the figure that we sought. This saw pending a luxurious silk
cord, removal of the upholstery palace, in that a frayed string. With such a sign accusing some fix
and clean homes, other disorder or lack; and pieces of carpet mat poking out under the doors
also told us aposentación something special in the interior. Unoccupied homes found ourselves
with cobwebbed doors, rusty gates, and some holes covered with wire netting blowing broken bringing
us the mist the air stays cold lonely. In certain places we went to neighborhoods seemed abandoned,
and the vaults of unequal height sad echo returned sound of our footsteps. We climbed a ladder,
go down another, and I think we turn up, as resolved to seek for ourselves the lucky number, not
wondering any passerby preferring the pleasure of exploration effort as mysterious places. The
idea of ??losing not annoyed us much, because beforehand savored the taste hand out at last
port without the help of practical and by virtue of our own topographical instinct. The labyrinth
us appealed, and on, on forever, we were soon lit by the sun and by the gas, describing angles
and more angles.

Here and there on some open ventanón terrace we corrected the defects of our defeat, and looking
at the dome of the chapel fijábamos orientábamos us and our true position.

"Here - Pez said impatient - you can not come without a blueprint and navigational compass. This
should The wing of the South.

Look at the ceilings of the Hall of Columns and the stairs ... What moles! ".

Indeed, large pyramidal shapes lead lined showed us the big roofs in which the bottom surface
are Volatín Bayeu Angelone.

At best, always walk, we were in a confined area that received the light of skylights in the roof
open, and we had to go back for departure. Looking outside the correct mass of the castle, do not
understand the irregularities that made people in its upper floors. Is that over a century there
has not been done more to modify a troche and early distribution Moche, walling around here, opening
there, condemning stairs widening some rooms at the expense of other, turning the street into
housing and housing street, boring walls and closing gaps.

There are stairs that begin and no end; lobbies or squares that are whitewashed room ceilings
were lower. There lofts where once there were rooms, and rooms that were once a graceful staircase
box. The snail is found at various points, without knowing where they are going to stop, and
doors septate, hollow with chicken wire, behind which is no more loneliness, dust and darkness.

A
place where we Pez said: "This is a popular neighborhood." We saw a half dozen boys soldiers
playing with paper hats, cane swords and rifles. Further, in a wide space and lit by large picture
window with bars, ropes to dry clothes on us forced to lower his head to keep going. On the
walls are not painted dolls missing or improper registrations.

Not a few doors of the houses were open, and through them saw cooking
with steaming pots and borders the shelves edged paper.

Some women washing clothes in large coffers, others were combing
out of doors, as it were, in the middle of the street.

"Van you lost" - told us that big boy was holding a yellow cloth wrapped.

-
We search the house of D. Francisco Bringas.

- Bringas?

... ya, I know - said an old woman who was sitting next to the big
gate -. Here nearby.

You have no more to go down the spiral staircase first and then make
a U- back ... Bringas, yes, the sexton of the chapel.

- What are
you saying, ma'am?

We seek the first official of the Administration.

- Then it will
be down on the terrace.

You know you go to the source?

- No.

- Do you know the steps of Cáceres?

- Nor.

- Do you know the chapel?

- Do not know anything.

- And the chorus of the oratorio? What pigeon?

Result: did not know any part of that labyrinthine village made of corners, Burladero and surprises,
fancy architecture and mockery of symmetry. But our inability not gave up, and reject offers
of a boy who wanted to be our guide.

"We are on the wing of the Plaza de Oriente, to wit, in the opposite hemisphere that lives our friend
- Fish said with some emphasis geographic character of Jules Verne -. Resolve to move to the
West Wing, for which we offer insurance counseling through the dome the Chapel and the ceiling
of the staircase. Once possessed of the body of the West, we be foolish not to give the house Bringas.
I'm not going back over here without a good map, Compass ... and provisions of mouth. "

Before leaving for this second stage of our journey, we look for the beautiful ventanón overview
of the Plaza de Oriente and the part of Madrid that since there is discovered, with more than
fifty domes, steeples and bell towers.

Philip IV's horse seemed like a toy Teatro Real a hut, and the upper surface of the cornice
of a wide bridge Palace over the precipice, where he could run comfortably not suffer vertigo. Below
from where we were the pigeons had their nests, whom we watch rush into the deep abyss of the Plaza,
in pairs or in groups, and super fast then curve up to perch on capitals and moldings. Their lullabies
seem so inherent to the building as the stones that compose it. In the infinite hollow mountain
that lives made the savage republic pigeons, occupying it with regional and uncontested dominion.
They are parasites that live between wrinkles in the epidermis of the colossus. It is well
known that care nothing for the revolution; or that free air, or that secular rock is nothing
that disturbs the domain augusto these queens unchallenged and incontrovertible.

Walk.

Pez had acquired in the geographic notions Verne booklets, they are missed practical and every
step I said, "Now we are on the south ... We necessarily find the passage from west to our right
... We can go down without fear of this second floor staircase Spiral
... Well ... Where are we? You do not see the dome, not a sad lightning.
We in the dark realms of gas ... Then go back up by this other step
that comes at hand ... What is this? "We are again in the East wing?
Yes, because looking the courtyard through the window, the dome is
our right ... Believe me, this forest chimneys cause me dizziness.
I seem to navigate and that all this mass tumbles like a boat. On
this side seems to be the source, because women come and go with pitchers
... Ea, I I pay, I ask practical, I do not give a step further ...
We walked more than half a league and I can not with my body ... A
guide, a guide, and take me out of here soon. "

Providence deparonos
our salvation in the person of considerable Garcia's widow Grande,
which suddenly seemed out of one of the ugliest and most rusty doors
saw that on our side