 Would you talk about the misery in the world? For recipe singing:
bread for the poor, charity to the wealthy and much Christian doctrine for all, so men do not
fight if you have more than me, and the world will be in conformity and decency, what is needed. What,
man? You laugh? Well, I like the recipe for your Eminence, especially the bread, as the Catechism
damned if needed, since all We learn as children.

The dog catcher showed increasing enthusiasm talking about her prince.

-
And as a man?

All of a Barbie. None of hypocrisy and to keep his head down. It serves him right know who was
a soldier in his youth. Aunt Tomasa remember seeing him in the cloister with a helmet of hair,
epaulets and a sergeant who was arming Shiv loudly. He did not is afraid of nothing, or shocked,
or make a fuss. Docked here last year some Portuguese lady who brought the cadets crazy with
her silk stockings and big hats. You know Jack and know who is the son of a nephew of His Eminence
long dead. As the boy walked his uniform Zocodover Portuguese arm to make them jealous a fellow
of the Academy. One day the girl to the palace, and servitude see it with such luxuries, the
free passage left, thinking it was a lady from Madrid. His Eminence greeted her with a paternal
smile, listening to her without blinking. He told me a page friend, who was present. The slut was
going to complain to his nephew Cardinal cadet, who had entertained two days without giving it
a penny. His Eminence modestly smiled: "Madame, the church is poor, I do not want that for this
skull suffered by the good name of the family. Take and shadow. " And he ran away two dollars.
The Portuguese, encouraged by the welcome, wanted to scream, thinking Don Sebastian to terrify
the scandal. But we had to see His Eminence when he came the rage. "Chico, call the police
shouted to the page. And such was his face, which the Portuguese lady stampede left, leaving
on the table two pieces of silver.

Gabriel laughed listening to this story.

- All a man, believe me,
man .... I love him because he has the council in a fist, not is like
its predecessor, that soups with milk, who could only pray and trembled
at the last canon.

What you go for it with raucous! You have guts to go one evening in the choir and clean it
sticks with the staff. More than two months ago that does not go to the cathedral and see him
the canons. The last time a commission of the offense was a palace, the servants trembled.
Iban do not know what to propose reform in the first and started saying: 'Sir, the council
opinion ... "Don Sebastian interrupted them, made a basilisk:" The council can not say anything;
the council has no common sense. "And he turned away, leaving them made of stone. Then he shouted,
punching fists in the furniture, which should make it possible for all vacancies in the cathedral
are covered with peorcito the clergy, who come into the council's cures drunks, crooks, etc. "I burst
to the council - screaming - I want it dirty; and learn to speak less of me, I want to cover
it, yes sir, cover of ... And already contain you, uncle, what does Your Eminence cover the canons.
The poor's right. Why have to put the choir on whether Don Sebastian live like this or that and
have this mess or the other? Do not you let him do what they want? Would you perhaps say a word
of their visiteos scandalous despite all Toledo knows?

- What do they say the canons of Cardinal?

- They talk about Johnny is his grandson and his father, who died,
and appeared as nephew His Eminence was a son who was of a lady when
he was bishop in Spain.

But this does not seem to irritate a lot of Don Sebastian. Another thing you mad, to inflame
the fistula and make it become a demon speaking of Dona Visitation.

- Who is that lady?

- Go! This is good! Do you still do not know Dona Visitation, when the cathedral and outside it
does not speak for someone else? As the niece of His Eminence, who lives with him in the palace.
She is the boss. Don Sebastian, terrible as it is, becomes an angel when sees. Rage, screaming
and almost bites, in the days that damn itchy disease, but occurs Visit Donna, and then it contains,
suffers in silence, moaning like a child, and she just a sweet little word you say or make you
a mime, so that His Eminence is drool taste ... He wants a lot!

- But it is strangely ...?-- asked Gabriel.

- Sure, it's what you think! What else could it be? I was at the College of Maidens Nobles since
childhood, and just came to Toledo Cardinal, took it out, take home. What so blind infatuation of
Don Sebastian! And the fact is that it's not worth it: a señoritinga Skinny and pale, with large
eyes and good hair, that's all. They say he sings, plays piano, who reads and knows many things
we teach at the college so rich, you have the grace Chalao God to bring His Eminence. In the
cathedral happens sometimes by the arc, made a Beatita, habit and
veil, accompanied by a criadota ugly.

- It is not what you think,
boy.

- Go!

All the council says, and more formal canons believe at face value.

Even those who are friends and favorite of His Eminence and bring him messages from what is
here murmurs against him deny it very hot. And Don Sebastian is indignant, is angry every
Once a murmuring of them reaches their ears. If you were told that the choir was going to get
a dance, unless you irritate when you know you are in Dona Visit languages.

The dogcatcher was silent for a moment, as if he doubted on releasing
something serious.

- This lady is very good.

All they want palace because he speaks softly. In addition, if you use your great power over the
Cardinal, is to spare the chillerías of His Eminence, many times in his times of pain angry, to shed
some cups and plates at the head family members. Why have to stick with it? Does it make any
damage perhaps? Each at home, and who is evil and God will punish him.

He scratched his temple, as once again faltering.

- For what Dona
Visit Cardinal is about - he said - no doubt in my mind.

I have data, man. I know so much how they live. A family has seen many times kissing. That is,
the two kissing, no. She was the one who kissed her, and Don Sebastian welcomed with a smile
Angelone pampering of their kitten. The poor fellow is so old ...!

And had their confidences Tato obscene assumptions.

This slander against the cardinal, who rose from the sacristy to the cloister, irritated Gabriel's
brother. The Wooden Staff, enlisted member of the Church, could not listen calmly attacks on his
superiors. For him it was all slander. Like Don Sebastian had spoken to the canons of all
previous archbishops, which did not prevent after were dead saints. When surprised to Tato repeating
the gossip Claverias below, threatening him with all his authority
as head of the family.

Esteban was sad seeing the state of health of his brother. He praised the conduct of it, always
cautious, welcoming the respectful silence of the cathedral customs without a word escaped him
revealing his past, the atmosphere was proud of admiration surrounding his brother, the eagerness
with which ordinary people listened to his travel cloister, but the
disease was sorry to Gabriel, the certainty that death had put in
him hand, and only care about him was delaying the time of possession.

There were days when Silentiary Gabriel smiled with satisfaction seeing
and hearing a good color less often painful coughs.

- Boy, that is
fine - he said cheerfully.

- Yes - Gabriel answered - but do not
Forjes illusions.

I am a firm hold. That will come your time. You are who repels. But one day be more than you.

The
certainty that death would eventually beat Stephen kindled, making
step care.

He appealed to supercharging as the only remedy, and always approaching Gabriel, was with
something in their hands.

- Eat this .... Drink what you bring.

And he struggled with that broken body, with an upset stomach by poverty, with injured lungs
and heart subject to disruption in the operation, with the machine
battered by a human life of suffering and emotions.

The constant watch over the sick man had disrupted the economic life of Stephen. Their mean
poor salary and choirmaster support barely sufficient for that mouth-consuming more than all
the house together. Later this month, Stephen implore the help of Rod silver to finish the last
few days, thus entering into the submissive and miserable gray tied to the usury of the priest.
Other times, the chapel master, living for a moment in reality, we
gave a few pesetas, sacrificing the enjoyment of getting a new score.

Gabriel guess the hardships that the brother was undergoing, and wanted to contribute to the
costs of the house. But what work could be found in isolation within the cathedral? Longed one placed
at the temple earlier this month to collect a few pesetas hands the Silver Stick, not be so
burdensome to her brother.

But all the seats were occupied; only death could open holes, and there were many hungry people
waiting for the occasion, claiming family rights.

His inability to be helpful to the brother and the sacrifice of it
is less expensive was so saddened to Gabriel, disturbing the placid
monotony of their existence.

Asked Esteban what could do to not be idle, and the brother responded with its expression kind:

-
Taking care nothing but take care.

You have no other obligation than to keep your health. I'm here for the rest.

Easter came, and Gabriel found time to earn some wages. Iban raise in the cathedral's famous Monument
in the choir and the door of forgiveness. It was a factory heavy and complicated, sumptuous Baroque
style, which had cost at the beginning of the century a fortune to the second Cardinal de Bourbon.
A forest of timber scaffolding was Monument, the wealth of the cardinal
had made a solid waste and luxury, and to build the sacred coffin
many days were needed and not a few workers.

Gabriel was seen with Don Antolin, asking a place in the work.

There were seven actual daily I could give to his brother for two weeks, and he was accustomed
in the past to see their work rewarded generously, welcomed this wage as an unexpected fortune.

The
Wooden Staff protested indignantly. Gabriel was ill and should not compromise its poor health with work
efforts. What would I do, coughing and choking each moment, at that very heavy task of transporting
timber and snap? The patient was reassured. He knew they were the work in the temple, everything
was done sparingly, without haste time. The workers in the service of the Church working with the quiet
lazy and slow seem prudent to wrap all the acts of religion. In addition, the Silver Stick,
knowing status, we reserved the job less painful, put screws and pins, align the chandeliers
of the steps, mending tapestries trusted him as a man of good glad
you had seen much in his travels.

Gabriel spent two weeks in the Monument. This period of relative activity seemed to cause true
welfare.

Moved, stirred giving orders to his co-workers of the temple was to the top of the Claverias, where
they kept the monument, and to be covered with dust, with members weary from the incessant comings
and goings, it was the illusion that he was healthy.

In those two weeks did not enter the house of the shoemaker and almost
lost sight of their fellow members.

Ringer and friends admired him. A man of much wisdom, and worked, as any of them, to help your
brother!

Mrs. Tomasa stopped him one morning next to the garden gate.

- There is news, Gabriel. I know where our slut. I will not say more, but be prepared to help
me. The day you least expect it you see in the cathedral.

He finished the erection of the monument. All part of the church from the choir and the door
Sorry was occupied by the colorful and heavy plant. The Toledo came to admire, as traditional
custom, the stairway deck tight rows of lights, Legionnaires Alabaster Roman leaning on their spears,
and rich shade of many folds, coming down from the ceiling to the platform of the monument.

On
Holy Thursday evening was Gabriel contemplating what was somehow
his work confused in the group of devotees.

The cathedral was smiling with his immaculate whiteness, despite
of the black veils covering images and altars.

The blotted with bright rosettes jets of the funereal colors of the
wedding ceremony.

In the chorus wailed a voice Under the cries and songs of the Oriental prophets. These laments for
the death of Christ is lost without echo in the medieval church,
democratic monument of an era that introduced religious expansion
in all its joy of living under the walls, while death and destruction
were in the fields.

Gabriel felt that he pulled the jacket, and turned to see the gardener.

- Come, nephew. We already have there. Awaits you in the cloister.

Upon leaving, Mrs. Tomasa was a woman attached to the stone base of
the garden, crouching, wrapped in a tattered shawl, with the head
scarf thrown over his eyes.

Gabriel had not ever known.

He remembered the pink face two years before, and looked with astonishment
faded youth face, bony, high cheekbones, deep dark circles, and the
eyes of a few eyebrows, no eyelashes, his pupils still beautiful,
but marred by vitreous opacity.

All revealed in her misery and despair. The skirt was summer and peered under broken boots, much
bigger than your feet.

- Saluda, girl - said the old - it is your uncle Gabriel, an angel of God, despite his escapades.
He you that I have sought.

The planter Sagrario pushed to his uncle. But the girl lowered her head, curling back and back,
like I could not resist the presence of a member of his family. Covered his face with the wretched
scarf, hiding her tears.

- Tia, go home - said Gabriel -. This creature is not right here.

On the stairs of the cloister were passed before the girl, coming
up with his head hidden without looking, as if his feet instinctively
march by those steps.

- We arrived this morning in Madrid - said
the gardener as they went -.

I've had in an inn, making time to bring the evening to the cathedral.

Best time: Esteban is in the chorus and you'll have time to fix this ... I spent three days there.
Oh, Gabriel, my son! What have I seen! In what place was this poor girl! What the hell is there
to poor women! And yet they say they are Christians! A daemon is what we are ...! Thanks that I
have my knowledge in court: people who have been bells in the cathedral and remember the gardener.
All I needed, even money, to bring this unhappy from the clutches of the devil.
The upper cloister was deserted. Arriving at the gate of the moon,
the girl, as if awakened sleepy his departure, it was back with a
look of terror, as if in room waiting for him in great danger.

-
Come, woman, come - "Aunt -. Is your house: you'd ever return.

And
the push, to make it pass the door. Inside, the reception, stopped
crying. Looking around in astonishment, no doubt afraid of having
gotten there. Her eyes examined all with astonishment, and admiration
for each object were in the same place five years earlier, with a
regularity that cast doubt on whether he had really elapsed. Nothing
changed in that little world that seemed petrified in the shadow of
the cathedral. She was that, leaving him in his youth, returned aviejada
and sick