 

Let us doubt the claims of this science brand. Without it. And affirm with the data supplied recorded
history and no dream, that neither beauty nor body strength and agility, or in courage and fortitude,
and clarity and elevation thoughts, today our lineage more noble and perfect types that displayed
and, as real people, make more than three thousand years. The man, therefore, has no any progress
in its own being, for so long.

The opposite is what you can or think it can be said when considering the sublimity mission of
some individuals of our species, happiness and met with the transcendence charitable works,
compared to which nothing is equal in the day. The firms gave top individuals and communities
from very ancient times, not be discerned they may have now or in the near future, something to overcome
them. I do not deny the possibility anything, I merely stated that I do not perceive, for example,
greater glory, nor things present or in the future, that of ancient Greece, which check the
foundation, creating the trace and forged mold of any further European culture to that of
a single city, Rome, which has dominion the best of the Orb, and with their laws and language
unifies and prepares it to receive with ease other higher element of civilization, and of
that peninsula where live, that to extend this civilization beyond the boundaries and known terms
until then, manages to discover new worlds.

I repeat, therefore, that men who did such great things are not inferior to those of the day.
Then in our being there has been progress. Yet progress is undeniable, if not us, in what is
outside us, although our power and accumulated inheritance. Napoleon, for instance, is not better
than Alexander the Great, but Napoleon has guns and other means of warfare that Alexander did not
have. Neither Kant nor Hegel worth as much as Aristotle but Aristotle did not possess the scientific
data twentieth of Kant and Hegel.

Fed is understood and in what sense and to what extent progress is undeniable. No progress in science
but in art there is no progress. If Pericles would be resurrected today turulato to hear the phonograph,
talking on the phone and see the electric poles, balloons, Railways and photography. Even a box
to fit a small dog matches to topple him the ground, dazed with awe and surprise, but it sure
would not find among all Paris hetairae a more discreet, distinguished and beautiful that Aspasia,
and you seem Magdalena a sad parody of the Parthenon and the Eiffel
Tower an ugly and monstrous freak.

I confess that, if brought together the finest lyrical poetry of great poets Pericles today
and could read and understand, was to find them superior to those of Pindar. Neat would explain why.
Suffice it that I recognize that in the lyric outbid the old. Not so in the rest. The same wealth
of knowledge and the itch to analyze things and look all around each object, remove grace,
lightness and sharpness style and make it heavy, confusing and vague. Pericles accustomed to the
speed of the narration Herodotus could not stand or the great historian Macaulay, who, if he
had continued history of England until now, have had to give the stamp hundreds volumes of the
Tauchnitz edition, and would have been necessary, even for an intelligent reader and regular,
the use of some years of life just to read and learn half Macaulay of what he says. Used also
to the conciseness Pericles in the telling of so many beautiful fables, legends and traditions of
their homeland, I'd bet a thousand to one that would not suffer with patience, without yawning
and without sleep, the ponderous and endless descriptions a novel
by Zola.

It is true that anyone will tell me to answer that Zola does not write
for me to read Pericles, but to read to the men of the day.

And as men of the day like many of his novels, Zola has great merit, and as I say, no evidence
against it.

My reply is clear. I do not want to infer or infer anything about the merits of the novels Zola.
Were written to please in the day, and this has been achieved. Is
it enough credit.

All I hope to demonstrate is the undisputed progress of science and the above discussed progress
of art. It is clear that Pericles is admire and like the phone, but also is clear or almost clear
that not admire or like almost any of our novels.

For even more evidence, we turn to other fine art: a sculpture. Nobody will deny that glorious character
who gave his name to his century and was so clear and delicate understanding like, remember
the Jupiter and Minerva of Phidias friend, and all the statues of our plazas, temples and tours
will seem less than medium. Now suppose that the resurrected Pericles cicerone serves as a sage
of the deepest in the day, very convinced of the incomparable superiority of everything today on all
the old, and very aware of the advances Science and brand new most ingenious inventions. This
leads to the Olympic wise Pericles to a cabinet or museum of wax figures and lets me shocked and stunned.
What have see Minerva and Jupiter, where gold, ivory and marble exterior only imitate what Nature
and even that incompletely and without all his hair and signals, as wax figures? Well say nothing
if the wise man winds up the figures, and as most of them are automated, are released to walk and
even open their mouths and greet the distinguished Greek Tourist. And still be the more the wonder
of it when his wise guidance touch certain springs, open windows
in belly and chest to the figures mentioned above and to lift them
gently and without any damage the brains out.

      The Athenian then exclaim,
    like the character in a celebrated zarzuela:

Today the advance science
that is an outrage.

Indeed, thanks to a skillful mechanics, aided by the wonderful chemistry and other disciplines,
in the interior of each figure starts to move the heart, blood flows by arteries and veins,
lungs and air takes with him a thousand operations, and, finally, and not tired, go up the brains
many atoms of phosphorus and other volatile essences are sneak in there like he owned the place,
several celulillas, and little time, as the Gusarapo, worms and other caterpillars, butterflies come,
Beatilla and mosquitoes, many varied flows thoughts and feelings,
good and evil, which can quickly become crimes or deeds, in moralizing
or subversive speeches, works of charity or rapes and murders.

Pericles then have to confess that this is exquisite and deep, as
he calls Mr. Reyles to his art.

What does not confess, which blindly deny, is that it is fine art such mischief.

And still we go from bad to worse in this matter of fine art, if the figures shows that the cicerone
Pericles are made for the study of internal diseases, and is within them how they form tumors, fistulas,
ulcers, growths and all sorts of pupae. The poor Pericles, perhaps wrongly imagined that the arts
serve to amuse, soothe and lift spirit, just get with this brand new art fair to be up and upset
your stomach, and force him to make a libation in honor of Aesculapius with Cyprus wine you had
on your last supper next to his beautiful Aspasia, which has been
preserved in the tomb, for twenty centuries, and that made you dream
a thousand divine beauties there.

Now apply to the pleasant literature of the statues which have said.

Easy is to get the following consequences:

That such literature should you remove the epithet enjoyable.

If it is not pleasant is not helpful either, because it upsets us and afflicts the poor showing, with
all disgusting and horrible details and does not offer any remedy.

That even if this literature is very scientific fashion, exquisite and deep, yet can deny that
it is well underway literature, but mere extravagance, and tends
not to amuse, but to teach, in order to be fulfilled better than novels,
with physiological lectures, pathological, histological and teratological.

And

those who sustain the progress of threatened rare literature, novels based on the fashion, assume,
not a decline in everything else, this would be less bad, but progress and growth horrible perversion
and corruption of the human, whose paint is thoroughly Case of the novels above.

If science had shown that evil is inevitable, which is explained by determinism vices and virtues,
imagination and faith schools should be dismissed as anachronistic and and that only we have
hope or on earth or in heaven, very dismal and evil Science had made progress, but progress would
end and we should respect him, and we should bow our heads and resign. All this science distressing
us teach, digging a heart in a fist, and full of fear and disgust, it would be nice entered
in scientific treatise, courses and epitomes, but in the novels often by people who has not won
a tassel at the universities, all could go Trabucador and although it came out, would not
novel either, but poorly digested hodgepodge of science, fantastic
accessible to all, and would stir interest only and not as a simple
art works and healthy, but our nerves overwrought like potions and
liniments pharmaceutical that make us see horrific visions and to
which we fans a perverse curiosity.

I feel that the ink is still a lot to say, but I can not help it,
and making point here, I leave for another day.

III

I had thought not to bother again readers of The Liberal flowing and meditating aesthetic issues
in relation to novels, but as I suffer from some ailment, before and today called cacohetes
scribendi graphomania call, had already written my third article on progress in the art of
the word, and I had not dared to send him to The Liberal. My intent was and is writing on the
subject as I come up and then reunite in a book, printing it very small number of copies. So,
now I see The Liberal an article in which my illustrious friend, Doña Emilia Pardo Bazán, seeks to
challenge what I said and even what I have said. Me not a little flattered that Dona Emilia
is used in this, but I will not pass because it gives me views that I have not delivered. I never
said I that the novels of Zola, Daudet, Goncourt, Tolstoy, Ibsen, etc., are bad. On the contrary,
I said that may be so good and so excellent, that the writing, the same donut Emilia, Pereda, Galdós,
Jacinto Octavio Picon, Armando Palacio Valdés and several others, without I exclude, will obrillas
insubstantial, and absolutely devoid of epidermal education and transcendence. But this would
be that Spain and the Spanish are decayed and even left hand of God, so that, just as there is
now Gonzalo de Cordoba, Polite, Pizarro and Cisneros, there is also Cervantes. And there will
be that there is an art exquisite and profound just invented out of Spain produced such wonders,
leaving bewildered and bowlegged, and moving to mimic the perpetrators of such wonders, to see
if bothered to find out the brand new procedure that make them giddy and the whole world with our
novels as you giddy them. I did not say neither more nor less than what I repeat now, albeit
heavy, but even if it is heavy, as Dona Emilia gives me the opportunity
to do so, I will continue my meditations aesthetic, inserting here
is my third article for fear that of exhausting the public remained
unpublished, and is as follows:

The only thing I am truly sorry and
that sometimes leads me to regret having made deal very complicated
issue is the multitude of aspects under which substantial amount and
extension therefore I have to give this writing.

Moreover, my conviction is ever stronger the more I think about it, but I believe useless or
of little importance explain and defend what my thinking is presented as true opinions against
me seem false and even absurd. I'm not excited about the national pride and singular, not affirm
nor deny, but I for cheap, to pave the way for the discussion, removing tripping medium, in French
and Russian novels of the day are much better than those in Spain are written. Ingenuity, inspiration,
and a joke, have perhaps migrated from Spain. I do not want deny it, I'm just sorry. What I
deny, and that is the question, is that fine progress as it progresses arts chemistry or surgery,
and the superiority of the novels French and Russian on our own, are that those are written
in the precepts of fine art and newly invented deep.

I will concede that in everything, even in the fine points, there is progress, as we technician
or call the office, but, well I admit, I recognize also that technical and progressive literature,
little importance compared with the essential it, in which there
is no progress.

Recapacítese well and see that at no time placed men in the level of the most vulgar and culture
medium was then, it has taken more special studies or more years of learning to be a poet or
novelist that exercise any other occupation. All men, for example, can speak and write, but
not all drive the awl and tirapié, and may not apply to it with zeal and perseverance. Hence,
in a sense, may well be argued that it is more difficult to make a shoe that compose a poem. And
it is still easier and requires less propaedeutic writing a novel for which, prosody, art meter
and rhyming dictionary care little or nothing. So conceived, without any surprise, the vast number
of novels that make up now English, French, Russian, Italian, German, Hungarian, Polish, in
short, almost all the languages ??spoken and written in the various civilized countries of
the five parts of mondo. The office is easy to learn and the better instrument for making or
manufacture, or tongue or pen, is handled with less effort and more naturally, not because the
chisel or the brush but the spade or hoe, where something everyone educated type or write
novels. So the material cost is spent on writing them less and is more affordable to everyone
that spent on other duties. For three thousand pesetas bought sheets of paper, which, while
not smearing but one hand comfortably fit two novels not short dimensions.

Could it be that this same abundance of novels need to employ an exquisite art and deep to stand
out from all others which we write? I deny roundly. Good taste, the delicate aesthetic judgments,
if not in contradiction creates considerable confusion on this point. For anyone refined and
cultured, Prosper Mérimée and Theophilus Gauthier, for example, are best novelists that Eugene
Sue and Ponson du Terrail, and yet, and Colomba, or Captain Fracasse
have been the twentieth part of the favor of the public, sale and
the applause that The Mysteries of Paris, or the endless adventures
of Rocambole.

"This will consist in Sue and Ponson du Terrail use the fine art and deep Gauthier and Mérimée
ignored or that of the general public has a bad taste, is long overdue and still prefer the
coarse to fine? Or does it consist in the real fine art and depth has not come to be discovered,
only recently, when Mérimée and Gauthier were already dead and buried, and by virtue of the public
art have opened the eyes of minds to understand the good, and Zola, Daudet, Bourget, Ibsen and Tolstoy,
they have opened the springs and legitimate sources of inspiration to produce works that not
only pleasing in the day, but that already contain the germ, if not in flower, the sublime novel
future, compared with which Don Quixote is a work surface, epidermal inconsequential, without education
and pastime?

If things were like, fashion and would be fashionable. The right way, art infallible to write novels
would be found, and for the world should stay away from him, not mislead us or stay behind.

I warn you, however, that these novels, written with exquisite art and deep commends both Mr.
Reyles, but are read, admired and imitated by those who are fanatically Paris fashion, presumably
falling into oblivion, and even contempt, when fashion go and come another fad. It is possible that
then everything today is subtlety, novelty and depth, look flashy
and heavy false affectation.

The truth is, the most popular novels, which have been sold in the
world right recent years they have had in appearance at least, the
more influence on political events and social, not written in Paris
and the fashion in Paris, but putting in a certain and impetuous current
of opinion, leaving away by it, increasing its spirit and spreading
over its action on the human spirit.

Thus, novels, not of fine art and deep, but with little or no art, though written in a happy
moment and appropriate, have achieved more success, have had greater resonance, they imported more on social
changes in the great historical facts, that all this novelty as praised by Mr. Reyles.

Take for example of what I say Uncle Tom's Cabin, by Mrs. Beecher
Stowe, the which is then sold hundreds of thousands of copies, resulting
in all languages, perhaps inflamed abolitionist sentiments and went
for something in causes of the terrible Civil War.

It is, therefore, not deep and exquisite art, or the subtle and unprecedented teaching peregrina truths,
nor more than inspiration, and the refinement of the latest fashions from Paris, nor the delicacy of
style, and other rare pieces of literature, giving the palm and laurel wreath an author of
novels, is to reach a timely manner and without fear of being dragged current.

Further evidence of the truth itself gives us a novel of Mr. Bellamy,
Anglo-American citizen also, a novel which sold nearly four hundred
thousand copies, a little to see the public.

The novel was what we call a socialist or communist utopia. Imagined the author in the not too
distant future. The social revolution had already been done. The new system regular and going
nicely. The whole world had become a real city of Cockaigne, and the human race eat, drink,
be entertained and worked little, without haste or misery.

The novel Mr. Bellamy came on time and it owes its success. Well it could be said so with much
less reason to say that Voltaire said blinds Montesquien Letters: These letters blinds so
easy to compose! ¡...!

I do not intend to lower or praise here the merits of French and Russian
novels, which commends Mr. Reyles, or these other American novels
that I have mentioned.

I say only that they have been timely, and is this a great achievement. Also, I when I write novels,
I try to be timely, and if I'm not, it's because you miss the opportunity. But what does the
opportunity a fine art and newly invented deep with our novels make you feel appropriate men of our
time more deeply than it did with other appropriate novels others feel the public of past
centuries in which they lived? This is the farce I do not admit and that seduced Mr. Reyles. This
is the hablerie and (let me the expression) the Parisian blague, why, is that with all due respect,
I think is also somewhat discreet and eloquent seduced my friend Dona Emilia Pardo Bazan, who
still write better than they write and compose original works and spontaneous, if left less influenced
by such blague.

La blague up point if further argues that the novel of the day should be crammed education, all
documents should be human and contain more profound doctrine that of books intended to teach and not
to delight. Would be curious if anyone studies history in Alexandre Dumas, geology and cosmography
in Jules Verne, Zola sociology, in psychology Bourget, and internal pathology in several other novelists.

Course,
who writes a novel, and takes for items or materials which write cases of ordinary life and ordinary
observed by him, you can also take doctrines, beliefs, hopes, dreams, religious and metaphysical
ideas, and resolution everything fits in the human mind and shakes. But taking all this as elements
of Art is not appropriate in my view, that strives to be didactic, because they expose you to
teach less and worse than what you teach the poorest of the manuals and go back on his vocation
as an artist, without creating the beauty and aesthetic delight without producing the vain efforts
of patenting and unprecedented disclose truths.

It is noteworthy, finally, that it contain the science in art, far from progress in a way no turning
back. Science has broadened so much that does not fit the mold artistic even though the mold and also
widen to become deformed, as in the novel, where an author can flow
freely over all things and many more.

However, a perfect work of literary art can not but confined within certain terms. What put them
off to have some monstrous impertinence. And in this meaning I will not deny that a novel therapy
can be taught, political economy, theology mystical metallurgy or as desired.

If it is fashionable stuff in all these novels, novels like fashion while duration, such is
the power of fashion, but beyond it, no human being who suffers the
novel teacher.

The sure to please all ages and will always be read and celebrated, will be the concerned only to
create beauty, and with elements of common life, and taken to elements ideas, doctrines and beliefs that
drive the author's mind and the minds of others men. Even so, it's enclosed in a novel or
a poem to know, not didactic purpose, but with aesthetic, former
lead us tremendous advantage.

Homer in the Iliad was able to As in his time was known and not a little of what was in germ
and in the future should be known or invented. And the Divine Comedy of Dante, is well less
comprehensive science. I admire much to Dante, but I can not believe they are only mentioned in
his poem theologies and philosophies that in more detail, clarity,
substance and can be studied in order San Anselmo, San Bernardo, Peter
Lombard, St. Bonaventure, St. Thomas Aquinas and other Doctors of
the Middle Ages.

So if I think of Dante, what do you think of Zola and what I believe Zola who can teach me,
not learn best in any encyclopedic manual: the Bouillet, for example?

And just what was said, because it seems like a joke and laugh the evidence and arguments adduced
to hold true as common sense and so overt.