 So you call him King, as you
wander about and you send Tuda to ask him if he will give you all
that you ask for?

This profound conviction has an unhappy effect on some women, They
had found themselves pausing to question the dead eyes of a friend.

Their friend with
the glistening forehead and the raven black hair.

Why didn't he find fault, why didn't he see anyhing wrong with me?

Didn't you do something wrong to me that you did not condemn me or
leave me to feel sick?

Why don't I catch some devils? I don't understand. They say not to
cheat, and I say, "Don't you like to win?"

It will
be twelve o'clock tonight, "is that right?

Isn't that when you have to be there?

" uttered the man. "How am
I going to get out of the house at midnight pray tell?

Amos you should leave this nonsense to me, because the truth of it
is that I have to watch over D. Romualdo due to the bad supposition
around."

Planning is the thing to do, eh?

We will need some mochas, We will have
to buy them.

We have an earthen lamp already but we should buy some more things,
and we should do so solemnly.

We do not want to violate God.

I can buy a clay lamp, while
the Almudena would like a clay pot with seven holes and nothing more
to it than seven holes saying that he was worth it, but where are
pots like these found?

The blind man answered that these pots could be found in his native
land and you would also find roasters of Brazil nuts hoping for one
with seven holes, The pot should be purchased without speaking, as
well.

He was forced to seek out a carrash stick from Africa, what we call a laurel here. So he found a
trader of clubs, the first one in the Americas.

He bought the club without saying a word.

He would use it in the fire to help it in igniting properly.

He would do this at 5 o'clock on Friday.

This stick
would burn through til Saturday and at that point he would have to
put it water seven times, no more, no less.

He was then
supposed to dress the club like a doll in women's clothing to place
before the clay lamp that had been lit with oil.

So he covered the doll with the pot after he had her ready and she
could no longer see light without the seven holes in the pot. So, the
pot was put out to hold the incense that be be burning during prayer
time.

This all would be within walking distance, the pot, the fire, the
club and the water.

The prayer must include the thought that "talking is worht it" over
and over and the person must not be distracted during these prayers
either.

Finally if they were not negligent the smoke would rise and there
would be light of the seven hole and the light would continue until
midnight.

So when you want to know what the Almudena would like, the King of
the terra cotta baking, you will know at the chime of midnight that
he likes talking.

"Don't you agree?"