 Humanity is changing course at this time. Now begins
the true civilization.

The next war was going to be, according to him, never seen brevity. Germany had prepared to make the
decisive without the economic life of the world suffered a long disturbance. A month was enough
to crush France, the most formidable of his opponents. Then march against Russia, which, slow in
their movements, could not oppose an immediate defense. Finally, England attack to the proud,
isolated in its archipelago, not to hinder further with its preponderance Germanic progress. This
series of rapid punches and wins caps just needed to develop the course of a summer. The falling
leaves greet in the autumn the final victory of Germany.

With the security of a professor who does not expect to be refuted by his hearers, explained the superiority
of the Germanic race. The men were divided into two groups: dolichocephalic and brachycephalic, according
to the conformation of his skull. Another scientific honor the men of hair parted and blond or black
hair. The dolichocephalic represented purity of race, superior mentality. Brachycephalics were mixed,
with all the stigmata of degeneration.

The Germans, dolichocephalic par excellence, was the sole heir of the original Aryans. All other
peoples, especially the South of Europe, called "Latinos", were a degenerate humanity.

The Spanish could not contain himself. But if these were old fashioned
theories of racism in no longer believed that any person moderately
enlightened!

If there was a pure people, because they all had one thousand mixes his blood after all historic
crossing!

... Many Germans had the same ethnic signs that the teacher attached to the inferior races.

- There is something that - he said Hartrott -. But while the Germanic race is not pure, is the least impure
of all, and it belongs to the government of the world.

His voice took a wry wit and sharp when talking about the Celts, inhabitants of the land South.
Had delayed the progress of humanity, throwing on a false course. The Celtic is individualistic, and
consequently, a revolutionary egalitarianism tends ungovernable. Furthermore, it is humanitarian and
compassion makes a virtue, defending the existence of the weak they are useless.

Germany puts the noble above all the order and strength. Chosen by Nature to send to the races
eunuchs, has all the virtues that distinguish leaders. The Revolution French was simply a clash
between Germans and Celts. The nobles of France were descended of German soldiers settled in the country
after the invasion of the barbarians call.

The bourgeoisie and the people representing the Gallo-Celtic element. Had overcome the inferior
race to the top, disrupting the country and disrupting the world. The celtic was the inventor of democracy,
the socialist doctrine of anarchy.

But going to sound the hour of revenge Germanic, and race nórtica return to restore order, and
that this had helped God preserve its indisputable superiority.

- A people - he said - can only aspire to great destinations whether it is essentially Germanic.
The less Germanic is, the less will be their civilization. We represent the aristocracy of humanity,
"the salt of the earth," as our William.

Argensola listened with astonishment these statements proud.

All major towns had passed through the mouth of imperialism. The Greeks aspired to hegemony,
to be the most civilized and believe the most likely to give civilization to the other men.
The Romans to conquer the land, to implement the law and the rules of justice. The French of the
Revolution and the Empire justified their invasion in the hope of
freedom to men and plant new ideas.

Until the sixteenth century Spanish, half the battle with Europe religious unity and the extermination
of heresy, worked for a great wrong, dark, but disinterested.

They moved in history for something that was considered generous and above their interests. Only
one teacher did Germany imposed on the world in the name of superiority of their race, superiority
that nobody had recognized him, which she attributed, giving their claims a veneer of pseudo-science.

-
Until now, wars have been soldiers - continued Hartrott -.

Which is now going to start will of soldiers and teachers. In preparing the University has taken such
a part as the staff. Science Germanic, first of all, is bound for ever to what Latino revolutionaries
contemptuously called militarism. The force, mistress of the world, is what creates the right,
which imposed our civilization, only real. Our Armies are representatives of our culture, and in a
few weeks off the Celtic world of decadence, rejuvenating.

The immense future race made him speak with lyrical enthusiasm.

William I, Bismarck, all the heroes of past victories, inspired him with reverence, but spoke
of them as dying gods, whose time had passed. They were glorious grandparents, claims modest
and was limited to expanding the frontiers, to achieve unity of the Empire, opposing then a
prudent valetudinarians to all the daring of the new generation. His ambitions never went beyond a continental
hegemony ... But then came William II, the hero complex that the country needed.

- My teacher Lamprecht - Hartrott said - has made a portrait of his greatness. It's tradition
and the future, order and daring. He is convinced that it represents the monarchy God's grace, like
his grandfather. But his vivid and bright intelligence recognizes and accept modern developments.
While romantic, feudal and supporter of the Conservatives agricultural, is a man of the day:
find out practical solutions and shows a utilitarian spirit, to the American. It balances the instinct
and reason.

Germany, led by the hero, had been gathering their forces and recognizing its true way. University
cheered even more enthusiastically than their hosts. What store so hard to keep aggression and
unemployed? ... The empire of the world belonged to the people Germanic. Historians and philosophers
were disciples of Treitschke to take charge of forging rights to
justify this world domination.

And Lamprecht, historian psychological launched, as the other teachers, the creed of the absolute
superiority of the Germanic race. It was just that dominate the world, and that she alone
has the strength.

This "Germanization telluric "would be of immense benefit for men. The land was to be happy
under domination of a people born to love. The German state power "tentacular" eclipse your
glory to the most illustrious empires of the past and present.

Gott mit uns (God is with us.)

- Who can deny that, as my teacher, there is a Germanic Christian God, the "Great Ally ", which
manifests itself to our foreign enemies as a strong and divinity jealous? ...

Desnoyers listened with astonishment to his cousin, looking at the same time to Argensola. This,
with the movement of their eyes, seemed to speak. "He's crazy - he said -. These Germans are
crazy of pride. "

Meanwhile, the professor, unable to contain his enthusiasm, was expounding the greatness of their
race.

Faith suffers eclipses even the higher spirits. For this reason the
providential kaiser had shown unexplained fainting.

It was too good and kind. "Deliciae generis humanity, "as Professor Lasson also Hartrott teacher.
Able with its immense power annihilated everything, merely to keep the peace. But the nation does
not want to stop, and pushed the driver had set in motion. The brakes useless. "Whoever not
move forward, backward ': such was the cry of Pan-Germanism the emperor. We had to go forward,
to conquer the whole earth.

- And the war is coming - continued -.

We need other colonies, as Bismarck, for error stubborn old age, did not require anything at the
time of the world total, leaving England and France took the best land. We need all belong
to Germany countries with Germanic blood and have been civilized by our ancestors.

Hartrott listed countries. Holland and Belgium were German. France was also Franks: a third
of his blood came from the Germans. Italy stopped here ...-- the teacher, remembering that
this country was an ally, indeed unsafe, but united yet the diplomatic engagements. However,
mention of the Lombards and other breeds from the north -. Spain and Portugal had been populated by
the Goth blonde, and also belonged to the Germanic race. And like most nations of America were
Hispanic or Portuguese origin, were included in this claim.

- It is too early to think about them - the doctor said modestly - but one day ring when justice.
After our continental triumph, we will have time to think on their luck ... North America should
also get our civilizing influence. There it millions of Germans, who have created their greatness.

He
spoke of future gains as if they were samples of distinction with which his country was to
favor the other peoples. They still live politically as before, with their own governments,
but subject to the direction of the Germanic race, such as lower they need the heavy hand of a master.
U.S. global form, with a president hereditary and powerful, the emperor
of Germany, receiving the benefits of culture Germanic, working under
his direction disciplined industrial ... But the world is ungrateful
and human evil is always opposed to any progress.

- We have no illusions
- the teacher said with haughty sadness -.

We have no friends. We all look with suspicion, as dangerous beings, because we are the most
intelligent, more active, and was higher than others ... But since
you do not love us, that we fear.

As my friend Mann, Kultur is the world's spiritual organization, but does not exclude "Bloody
savagery" when it is needed. The demonic sublimates Kultur that we have in us, and is above
morality, reason and science. We will impose Kultur to guns.

Argensola eyes continued to express his thought: "They are mad, mad with pride ... What awaits the world
with these people! "

Desnoyers intervened to clarify with some optimism to the bleak monologue. The war still had not
been declared, trading diplomacy.

Maybe they fix everything peacefully the last moment as had happened before. His cousin saw
things somewhat disfigured by an aggressive enthusiasm.

The wry smile, ferocious, cutting the doctor! ... Argensola did not know the old Madariaga, and yet
he thought that should smile and sharks, but had never seen a shark.

- It's war - said Hartrott -.

When I left Germany a fortnight ago, I knew that the war was near.

Security said that dispels all hopes of July. Moreover, he worried about the journey of this
man under the pretext of seeing his mother, which had separated shortly before ... What had
come to do in Paris, Dr. Julius von Hartrott? ...

- Then - asked Desnoyers - why so many diplomatic interviews?

Why intervene the German government, however feebly, in the conflict between Austria and Serbia?
... Did not would be better to openly declare war?

The professor answered simply:

- Our government certainly wants to be the others that declare.

The paper attacked is always the most gratifying and justifies all subsequent resolutions that
seem extreme. There we have people who live well and do not want war. Is convenient to believe
that are the enemies that we impose it, so they feel the need to
defend themselves.

Only higher spirits come to the conviction that only the great strides performed with the sword, and
war, as our great Treitschke said, is the highest way of progress.

Smiled again with a fierce expression. The moral, he said, should exist between individuals, as it
serves to make them more obedient and disciplined. But morality hinders governments and should be
deleted as an unnecessary obstruction. For such a state there is no truth or falsehood: only
recognizes the desirability and utility of things. The glorious Bismarck, to get war with France,
the basis of German greatness, had not hesitated to forge an office telegraph.

- And recognize that it is the greatest hero of our times. History looks kindly his achievement.
Who can accuse the triumphs? ... Professor Hans Delbruck has written reason: "Blessed is the hand
that forged the Ems telegram!"

It was fitting that the war arose immediately, now that the circumstances were favorable for Germany
and its enemies lived neglected. Preventive war was recommended by the General Bernhardi and
other illustrious compatriots. It was dangerous to wait for the enemies were prepared and were
they who declare. Also, what obstacles represented for German law, and other fictions invented
by the weak peoples to sustain in their misery? ... They had the strength, and force creates
new laws. If you were victorious History does not ask them accountable for what they had done.
It was Germany who beat and the priests of all religions would eventually sanctify his holy
war hymns, if that led to victory.

- We do not make war to punish the Serbs to regicide, or for free
to the Poles and other oppressed people of Russia, then resting in
the awe of our magnanimity disinterested.

We do it because we are the first people on earth and we must extend our activity on the planet.
The time has come to Germany. Let us take our site director of world power, as in other centuries
occupied Spain, and France then and England today.

What these people reached with a preparation of many years what we get in four months. The storm
flag is going to walk the Empire seas and nations: the sun light mass killings ... Ancient Rome,
sick unto death, surname of Germanic barbarians who opened the pit. Also smells of dead world
now, and probably will call us barbarians ... Sea! When Tangier and Toulon, Antwerp and Calais,
are subjected to the barbaric Germanic, and talk about it more carefully ... We force, which
has not discussed or ignore words ... The power!

This is what beautiful: the only word that sounds bright and clear ... The power! Accurate punches,
and all arguments are answered.

- But you are so sure of victory?
- Asked Desnoyers -.

Sometimes, the destination offers terrible surprises. There are unseen forces which we do not
upset the plans and better.

The doctor's smile was now a sovereign contempt.

Everything was planned and studied long time, with the meticulous
method Germanic.

What did they face?

... The most formidable enemy was France, unable to withstand the enervating moral influences,
the sufferings, efforts and privations of war, a physically weakened people, poisoned by the revolutionary
spirit, and had been ignoring the use of weapons by a love being
exaggerated.

- Our general - continued - going to leave in such a
state, never dare to cross on our way.

Russia remained, but the amorphous masses were slow to assemble and difficult to move. The State
Berlin Mayor had arranged everything timed to the crushing of France
in four weeks, then taking huge forces against the Russian Empire,
before he could begin his action.

- Will end with the bear after
having killed the rooster - the teacher said victoriously.

But guessing
an objection from his cousin, he hastened to continue:

- I know what
you're going to say. Is another enemy, one that has not yet jumped
into the arena, but we await all Germans. This inspires more hatred
than the others because it is our blood, because he is a traitor to
the race ... Ah, how I hate!

And the tone in which he said these
words throbbed an expression of hatred and revenge that impressed
them both listeners.

- Although England will attack - continued Hartrott
- why not let expire. This is no more formidable opponent than the
others. A century ago who reigns over the world