 An ugly guy, but nice: one day he had heard tell a very
funny happened. Then she talked about a dress she planned to be done, light-colored velvet
trimmed with crimson, an idea that had happened to her without refer to the dressmaker, was
sure he had to like a lot. But suddenly turned itself and said quick word and dry:

- Come on, ... the tissue of the girl sixteen, eh?

- Yes, ma'am.

- Is forty-three ... Have you bought V. soap?

- Nothing more than a pill ... I do not remember if the lady had sent to buy two or ...

- I had had to buy two, but no matter ... Where has put V.?

- In the bedroom, on the night table.

In pronouncing these words came into the bedroom to find the pill.

When he approached the table, uttered a cry of terror.

Miguel was stiff at the bottom of hiding.

The General, haggard voice asked from out:

- What is it, Carmen?

- Miss ... a man's hat on your bed!

There was a moment of silence, during which the heart was jumping Miguel terrible. The General
soon recovered.

- And so it scares V., silly? ... Stirring my closet, I stumbled on that hat Mr., I do not know
how he came to give him ... I interfered and I got it ... If V. wants
and can take some of it, take it ... is useless.

- Thank you, Miss
- said the girl, leaving his hat in his hand .-- I have a brother
who would serve maybe ...

Nothing more was said about it.

The General has continued to take the calm, pale face, the voice a little upset.

Miguel was needed to leave that night without a hat. He waited a while in the neighboring portal
and got into the rental car first hit to cross.

Finally yielded to the general's wishes, strongly expressed by her lover, and was entrusted
the maid. Since then, his interviews were easy and peaceful. Carmen prevented them with art
all molestation, provided them full security and peace. With this new order of things he settled
very well our hero seemed they had taken a great weight shoulders, in fact too expensive bought
before the pleasures that his friend gave him.

But the general's not got along so well with the quiet and prosaic bias taking his love; security,
stopwatch accuracy of quotations, the kind that they enjoyed calm, the lost heart, began to
bore her, and she weighed herself that Carmen had been paid so willingly to serve. All life
had the skinny on the adventures, but late this hobby has been exacerbated in a remarkable manner,
felt an appetite voracious extraordinary, as if he escaped the youth and I can not conclude without
a big hit. So you can not satisfy with tragic scenes dream because Miguel laughed at his fears,
God exercise his overheated imagination in other kinds of whims rare.
Nothing could be done in their relations in a normal way, was forced
marinate all with some sort of mystery. In the theaters, to communicate
any news, can speak without hindrance, he preferred to use a number
of Masonic signs or signals made mysterious fan, gloves, twins and
other utensils of which was sometimes no little confusion and perplexity
to Miguel. The letters he wrote were always signed with name of man,
Alfredo, as if they were from a friend to another, but why not let
you come dotted with all sorts of passionate phrases, "I loves with
all his heart ... Alfredo. "" Beloved of my soul, minutes away from
you become and ever ... "" Yesterday, watching the moon from the balcony
of my room I was struck by the memory night ride we have taken a few
days ago and felt the tears sliding down my face ... 