 How not find a less indifferent and cold depths less off and hard for the
father she Zubulzu?

Ramona was beautiful, elegant, there was nothing foolish and while living in high society, and
not fall into the pit, had to have fans, young and old friends that estimated that cared for her,
and some of which, despite all his modesty and severity of morals, could she be kind, granting
favors those breed predilection and clean and friendly no longer trust the austere virtue,
but neither the sanctity prohibited. How is it that none of those friends first tried to avoid
falling into the abyss, or tried to remove it after without demanding
in return the humiliation and disgrace?

It is possible that the circumstances have so that an unfortunate person does not find who turn away,
but should not be assumed, without insulting or slandering the human race unfortunate that such person
is not offended because it really does not exist in the world. Misfortune Ramona arrives, therefore
the rarest if not the most incredible extremes. Out of hunchback nobody there to assist it or to look for
it: neither raised nor other poor people, or people, middle class,
friends or relatives of your family, or ladies and gentlemen of the
aristocratic society that has grown up and has since lived.

Strange is also the complete and terrible misery to which the author leads her heroine, providing
it to do so magnanimous generosity, which can not but be a bit confused
with the simplicity even in the thinking of fictional people and despised
material interests.

Anyone would think, finally, the idea that a young healthy woman, twenty-five or twenty years,
carefully educated, must have some ability to know something, have some means, industry or
resource to earn an honest living. It can be nurse, teacher rich or chaperon. You can teach music,
French, English, and hand work to first letters. You can embroider, paint, make something, in short,
it is worth two or three pesetas daily. Bad luck tightening, but not always chokes. In The
chasm is too note the strong author's efforts to hasten her as his heroine throwing on such
a depth that does not able to leave, that he had no recourse but death or infamy. Ramona driven
by the gloomy imagination of Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo, is to fall fatally in this horrible dilemma:
either kill or be the mistress of the bullfighter Severiano, aka the band. And as the unhappy
Ramona lacks the courage that is required premeditated suicide, or if the value is not missing,
his conscience or religious ban him committing such heinous crime, Ramona opt on the other end
of the dilemma, and it is seen, at the end of the novel, which will incur an sin uglier, dirtier
and more plebeian, though less fierce and less unlike suicide natural
order and reason and divine will.

While reading the last pages of the abyss we forge for a few moments of pleasant Ramona illusion
that, in the midst of its abandonment, was to find a noble defender in the torero someone
to protect her brutally without requiring payment, but, as already indicated, this illusion fades
quickly. The bullfighter is no better than the other beings of our
species.

Prominent among them only by their energy, but this energy does not manifest its activity
by any generous impulse, but motivated only by selfish and bestial appetites.

Although as stated above, despite some improprieties and improbabilities in details, and despite
too many coincidences that occur with regard to seem fortuitous, as the sudden appearance of a bullfighter
in a serious time that saves Ramona the most shameful and miserable trance, the pit is planned
and written with such art, their reading interests, attracts and
seduces, but instead to delight grieve, ending up discouraged, if
we had no recourse to think that everything is fake and false, that
everything is fixed, exaggerated and teratology, and not ordinary
and current, fortunately.

In short, I would dare to call me Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo of good painter of manners, although I
am glad that showed less bitter taste for bad painter, and that he should put less black, less shadows
and more light, ink and more pink and blue sky on his palette. Perhaps in the future do so without
persist in producing extraordinary grieving effects more than just
the minds of his readers. Very much so, in my opinion, will win with
this, Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo