 Embarazarian exceptions too; the easiest
thing is to build an universal proposition: behold the axiom. Come after numerous cases not included
in it does not matter: this object is conceived in terms general and unclear or unintelligible,
to be interpreted in a thousand different ways suffer on your screen all the exceptions you
want without losing any of its prestigious reputation. Meanwhile, the axiom serves admirably to build
an extravagant reasoning, giving weight to an absurd trial, or banish a hard constraints: they
are offered to the spirit doubts about the truth of what you stand for, when it is feared that the
building does not come to the floor with thunderous ruin himself is said the spirit, "No, no
danger, the foundation is solid; is an axiom and an axiom is a principle of eternal truth. "

To deserve the name, it is necessary that the proposition is so obvious to the spirit, as what
are the objects we look eye present, due to distance, and in the middle of the day. In not
entirely convinced leaving the understanding from that is offered, and once understood the meaning
of the terms in which it is stated, should not be admitted to this class. Flawed ideas by an axiom
false, sort are all very different things than they are in themselves, and errors are much
more dangerous, as the most deceitful lies in understanding security.

§ III.

Propositions are too general.

If we were known the essence of things, we could establish with respect to it proposals universal,
without any kind of exception, because the essence remains the same in all beings of the same
species, it is clear that what the one afirmásemos, would be equally applicable them all. But
as with respect to said essentially know little, and imperfectly, and often nothing is so common
there that can not speak of beings, but relation to the properties that are within our reach, and
often do not discern if they are rooted in the essence of the thing, or if they are purely accidental.
Tenders general suffer from this defect, because they express what we conceive and judge, can
not be extended but to what our spirit is known. Hence it is suffering thousand exceptions that
did not foresee, and perhaps find that it had made a rule that was
nothing more than the exception.

This happens even if a lot of work from one who sets general proposition,
what will be, if we look at the lijereza with which they are often
formed and issue?

§ IV.

Inaccurate definitions.

These can be said about the same as the axioms that serve as direct light perception and opinion,
and point of support to strengthen the intellect. It's about how difficult a good definition,
and in many cases impossible. The reason is obvious: the definition explains the essence of
the thing defined, and how do you explain what is unknown? Despite size disadvantage in all
sciences there a multitude of definitions that go currency which good law, and although it often
happens that authors rise against the definitions of others, they in turn take care of replacing
them with yours, that make move throughout the work by taking them based on their speeches.
If the definition is to be the explanation of the essence of the thing, and knowing this essence
is so difficult business, Why is being defined in such a hurry?

The target of the investigations is the knowledge the nature of beings, for the proposition
that explains this, it is that the definition, should be the last to issue the author. In the definition
is the equations with solving the riddle, and the resolution of the problems this equation is
the latest.

What we can clearly define it as purely conventional, because the nature of being conventional
is that which we give ourselves for the reasons that seem good. Thus,
since it is not possible in many cases set the thing, at least we
should fix it what we mean when we talk about it, or in other words,
we should define the word with which we intend to express the thing.
I do not know what the sun does not know its nature; and therefore
its definition if you ask me, I can not give it. But I know what I
mean when I say the word sun, so be easy for me to explain what she
meant