 And
this hero outshines the others and the legend is embodied in it and becomes more and life enhancement.
FAUSTO So, before Goethe adopted by the son of his spirit had already darkened all scholars
who have given the devil, since there are devils and wise in the world.

Characters, then, like that of Faust, as in our Spain v. gr., Don Juan Tenorio Student and Lisa,
are called to be precious jewels of all literatures, and inspire the best dramas, operas, novels
and poems that can be composed. To travel the world in triumph, just waiting to arrive in genius
seizes them, and subject something epic report are still, things become art, with more reality and significance
and spirit, to live in the soul and memory of men, that the real heroes and acquaintances of history
to become real characters, even if they have ever existed, as Semiramis and happened to many
others, whom critics have come to find out later that never existed.

For the legendary hero is a great fortune that a poet of merit seizes him, but more fortunate
still that of the poet who manage to hit the hero. Owes much to Don Juan Tirso and more to
Don Juan Tirso, Lisa Espronceda Espronceda and to Lisa. Similarly owes much Goethe's Faust Goethe
and Faust. No wonder Goethe seize him in his first youth, and not leave him for over 50 years,
until age 82. What Goethe did not write in this half century long? What issues did not try? What
kind of literature is not cultivated with success? Confining ourselves only to the theater,
as Goethe wrote historical dramas Egmont and Tasso Goetz, sentimental comedies, such as Clavijo;
comedies Aristophanes; Greek tragedies as Iphigenia; farces, somewhat similar to what we call around
here operettas, comedies satirical literary the order of the Coffee, Moratin, etc., etc.,
but all this thinking, I wrote it, left and then maybe he forgot while he was working in FAUSTO
life. Concretémonos now, as we said, and with the restrictions already mentioned, the first part
alone. Clearly, concerning the work delivered by the people, Goethe has created a work admirable.