 My desire to write this novel
has not gone away ever. What has vanished is my hope. To write as I figure it was necessary to
gather and form a vast apparatus of scholarship, and for this I always lacked patience. Today,
to my misfortune, besides patience, I miss the view. I can not see the multitude of tomes, ancient
and modern, written in different languages, where I would take the local and temporal color my projected
work required. The work, therefore, must remain in the project. And since it is planned to free
myself from his obsession and to prove to you that if I can, I want to please, I'll put here in
a very short project summary.

       * * * * * In the reign of Alhakem I, for the years 218 of the Hegira,
was in Cordoba, a wealthy merchant named Abu Haf치z the Goleith, a
native of nearby site of Fohs Albolut.

In his bazaar, located in one of the main streets, were gathered the most precious objects of
human industry and of what occurred in the Iberian Peninsula as it brought from remote regions of
Baghdad, Damascus, Bocara of Samarkand, Persia, India and the little known vast empire of Cathay.
Abu Haf치z ships had their own, they went to the Levant ports to provide themselves with goods. On
a spring afternoon came in the bazaar of Abu Haf치z a lady covered, accompanied by her maid. Although
he did not see his face, he admired the grace and elegance of her
walk, leanness and elegance of her figure, a certain ineffable prestige
seductive as the bright halo around it, and the aristocratic beauty
of its white, beautiful and well manicured hands.

The lady wanted to see how much more rich in the bazaar had. Abu Haf치z, full of pleasure, was offering before
his eyes, and putting on the counter, a thousand strange beauties
of jewelry and fabrics. She is not satisfied with looking. He was very
curious. The merchant said - yet I have shown, Sultana, the most splendid
treasures pilgrim my store. - And why hide it and do not you show
me? - She said. - Because I am interested and do not want to work
for nothing.

Show me your face and in return I'll show my best wealth

.