 Stopped short of Dona Brigida to throw
him down the stairs one day that has brought him a hundred and twenty reais.

Don Jaime was thus reduced to spend hours sitting watching play and giving players do not appreciated
advice. Used to pay the greedy cup of rum. Once in a time playing checkers with Mr. Lorenzo, as
he flatly refused to follow the game without interest, was that Marin arbitrate should not
be any precious metal. Discoursed expose one of the two cigars that his wife was in the morning.
When he lost, that afternoon was not smoking. Sometimes looking for a rematch, losing two and
three would one by one, giving his opponent in the following days. Then he spent, as their
Friends would say, "the grammar", that is, to ask here and there a cigarette to calm the unbearable
itching to suck. Poor Marin!

Dona Brigida what could not ever do was lie on a regular time. Years of staying up all night
until four or five in the morning, had formed a habit impossible overcome. As holding him was
not going home anyway to bed until daybreak, and spent the evening poking around the rooms,
and as the vice late nights alone the cheapest is known, the witty lady let him retire at the
time wanted. Coffee remained in the Navy with the last customers. After they retired, still
remained while the boys placed the dishes in place and the owner pointed out the latest games.
When he threw the establishment materially was to company to the serene de la Rúa Nueva, very
friend. Chatting with the hours he killed still lacking for the dawn.

Don Lorenzo, Don Agapito, Don Pancho, Don Aquilino, Mr. Germain and Don Justo were Indians,
that is, people whose parents had sent to America for children to earn a living and had back between
fifty and sixty years with a capital ranging from 30-100000 hard. There were over fifty of
them in Sarrio. The hard work and subjection in which they had lived for many years, I did have
an idea of ??happiness is very different from ours. To us the joy is to enjoy a new pleasure
every day, shaking, traveling, enjoying the body and spirit of the amazing variety of things
that nature offers us. For them was estimated solely on not working, spending day after day of
hard redeemed law imposed by God to Adam after sin. And the truth is that fattened fiercely
this singular enjoyment. Most of them had their capital in the Funds, whose income when it comes
to not cause discomfort. Rising up early in the habit of early rising, and walked all morning
through the streets or at the dock in gangs of six or eight player entry and exit, loading and
unloading of ships. After dinner they went to the mezzanine Navy coffee or Friendship, and
spent three or four hours playing or watching play billiards.

"Come on, ball of bone, go, go to hut! - Leave, leave, Don Pancho,
which is wound .-- Sal girl, leave the manigüita .-- Ah, ah, how nice
ute hits, Don Lorenso! - Do not get mad, don Pancho!

"

The game was always peppered with such phrases that smelled like banana
and coconut.

When the days were long, there veíaseles afternoon by walking near the village also gang or sitting
on the grass at the edge of a fountain. It was time for tropical memories.

"Remember ute, Don Agapito remembers mulatta aqueya ute dog that came to give plasma to the store?
- And how well he sang the guarachas, the sinvergüensa! - a design that ute vese the rubbed,
Don Agapito, the hard rubbed .-- And why not, Don Pancho, if what I would improve the dance
of people with black slipped my Justo compare? - Wow, man, do not say So I Enoha! The dance
that was going to ute. Vese Poquita trabao I saw him with eya dancing down the little girl,
little girl down! "

There was no count on them to subsidize the orchestra, or theater, or other public recreation.
Young indigenous people if they wanted to have fun need to appeal to the pocket of his parents. And
knew it was useless to seek the help of American gold. This angered them. On the back, and even
from the front, called them rusty, villagers, donkeys laden with money. But the Indians have
tough skin and despised such outbursts. The hatred they had declared (Who was not?) Was Gabino
Maza .--«¿ What are they pulled all those fifty vague on the street, opening his mouth and stretching
like dogs? If earmarked even your money to some useful industry to
the people!

"

When Don Melchor de las Cuevas and his nephew entered the Saloncillo, who alone remained standing in
the middle of the circle was the same Gabino gesturing Maza. I could not stay two minutes
sitting. The continued glorification of his body, the vehemence with which he tried to persuade
his audience, forcing him to take up the seat immediately, jumping into the middle of the room
and screaming and slapping until he concluded his breath and strength. There was talk of the company
the theater had announced his departure to have experienced losses
in the first installment thirty functions.

Maza was to convince them that there had been no such losses, it was all a hoax.

- Not true, not true! Anyone who says they have lost a penny lying!

... (Down voice and shaking hands with Gonzalo .)--¿ How are you, Gonzalo? I know you've arrived
yesterday.

Come Good: I'm glad ... I repeat that lie! Do not dare to say it to me?

- Six thousand pieces have been lost in the thirty functions, according
to data presented me Baritone - Don Mateo said.

Maza grinds his teeth. The outrage is not allowed to speak. Finally breaks.

- And you ignore that drunk, Mr. Mateo? ... Go, go (with affected contempt), to force to deal
with comedians you've forgotten the office, as the blacksmith of yore.

- Hey you, smarty, I have not said what he believed.

All I'm saying is that this results from the data that I presented the baritone.

Maza da full circle, is again placed in the middle of the room, ripped
the hat from his head with both hands, and waving frantically yells:

-
But sir!

But, sir! Seems not only far we have fallen from a nest!

... Want you tell me what they have done twenty thousand-odd real
imported fertilizer, and almost likewise to be entered at the box
office?

- Salaries are grown - said the assistant port.

- Do not
be stupid, by the Blessed Virgin, Alvaro!

Not an ass!

... I'll tell you right away salaries (counting on fingers).

The tenor, six dollars, the soprano, six are twelve bass, four are sixteen, the contralto, three
are nineteen, the baritone, four ...

- Baritone, five - said Peña.

- Baritone, four - insisted furious Maza.

- I know that there are five.

- Baritone, four - roared back Maza.

Alvaro Peña stands exalted in turn, burning with noble desire to bring the conviction his opponent,
and begins a furious race, huge, lasting about an hour taking part in all or almost all members
of that illustrious gathering of notables. Nothing like the famous brawls that among the Greeks
before the walls went Ilion. The same heat and anger. The same primitive simplicity in the arguments.
The same naive and barbaric violence in dictation.

"There will be more ass man! - Hush, hush, head of cork! - Ox spoke, and said moo! - Te I say you're
missing the truth, and if you want clearer, I say you lie .-- Jesus Gans! - Looks you a bad
woman. "

Were very frequent, almost daily, such altercations in the Club. Like all those who took part
had a direct, wholly original to appreciate the issues, like, if not equal to the heroes of Homer,
the argument set to start the dispute, remained unchanged until the end. Man who had spent
an hour repeating incessantly: "There is no right to meddle in anyone's
private life!" or, "That will happen in Germany, but as we are in
Spain !»... Some were still shorter and always yelling you left a
hole :--«¡ wacky bagpipe!

Do you know? Gaita freaks! "Until he fell lifeless on the couch.

But what they lost in the arguments ganábanlo range in intensity. Were increasingly expressed
more energy and forceful, and more unrhythmicity voices. Thus, it was rare day not to come out
of there any drone, generally, were Alvaro Peña and Don Feliciano, the weaker larynx, not
the most hawkers. That the City had sent prune Watering trees walk: dispute at the Club. The
clerk of the house González Children had escaped with fourteen thousand reais: dispute. The
parish priest refused to give a certificate of good conduct the pilot Velasco Alvaro Pena had
vomited blood a result of this dispute.

No despondency was never after them, nor had they had caused memory a personal matter. How could
there be if everyone had agreed tacitly accept without anger the funny epithets that have been mentioned?
The local character issues, it was perfect. The policy had very few growers Sarrio. Only when
newspapers much any news event package, it momentarily worried its inhabitants. It was nearly twenty
years that the district representation in Congress was entrusted
to the wealthy banker Rojas Salcedo, who only once in his life Sarrió
been taking donkey milk.

No one thought of disputing the election. Generally was made to meet the presidents and secretaries of
the schools, and pointing in the minutes the number of votes they wanted. The reason for this was
that it had always been Sarrió a market town where everyone could make a living without recourse
to employment State. Most young people, after, after two or three years in a college England
and Belgium, were used on the desktops of their parents and their successors were in them.
Others, less still any military or civilian career of fixed salary, and only came from time
to time to spend some time with his family.

Sarrió, it must be confessed at once, was a sleeping population for all major events of spirit to
regenerate all the struggles of contemporary society. Anyone studying high policy issues. The
battles that the various factions waged other parties to ensure victory and power is not in any
way passionate tempers.

In a word, in Sarrió the year of grace 1860 there was public life. It ate, slept, worked,
danced, they played, the contribution was paid, but all in a absolutely private.

When they tired to contest the of the Club and had to overcome the digestion, Don Mateo I said,
licking his taste, he did not care about the progress of the company. Within a few days preparing
a surprise to Sarrio. After much work was achieved to disgorge. Was in talks with the famous
Marabini, phrenologist, magician. Perhaps Tuesday ... yes, on Tuesday or Wednesday might admire their
skills in the theater. Brought tables also solvents and domesticated wolf.

Gonzalo had gone to the pool room and play the plated saw half a dozen Indians, which to give
Tacaza, sounded like a peal of bells all gold charms hanging from
his huge watch-chains.

These chains and these pendants were the attraction more powerful, the supreme temptation presenting
their children for artisans Sarrió deciding to go to Cuba .--«¡ Fool, who you see coming in
a few years with cloth coat Fine, great blouse ironed and lots of patent leather boot chain
Morelos, like Don Pancho! "A stake latter resisted almost any boy .--«¿ That gives me seven times
around the neck, father? - Yes, man, yes, and a portion of gold pens and lockets hanging. "And
off he went from poor guys head in the Bella-Paula, the Carmen, in the town of Sarrió or other
barcucho Sailing anyone to perish of hunger or black vomit, blacker still fascinated by the
brightness of those kitschy jewelry representing the eyes of the terrible Loreley.

The attitude of some Indians playing as people who are not seasoned to repress their gestures
and composing them, were strange and funny, served with joy to the young men whose antipathy to
the Americans always expressed by mockery.

Who, like Don Benito, was high heels on the ground as the ball ran, who, like Don Lorenzo,
bent to one side or the other, twisting and writhing as if their movements depended on the
ball be inclined to one place or another, who, at last, as Don Pancho, who was small and fat,
almost square, jumped up from the couch after having pushed the ball, the better to see the
damage had been done in the sticks. Occasionally you could hear the cry of impatience one of
them addressing the boy :--«¡ Point, boy, do not be distracted! "

Next came and sat Gonzalo Feliciano Gomez, who started him dizzy with his talk kind and insubstantial,
giving each moment loving pat on the thigh as he custom.

- When is the big day, Gonzalín? Will it soon, eh? Well, that I have and desire to see thy
arm lady going to church a dozen! ... Well, my boy, well, you'll be happy. Home the girls (as
she called her older sisters always) will not let me live from yesterday: "When Gonzalín married?
do not hesitate to ask. "As you have seen the birth of the poor! ... No nothing like the marriage
to live happy and peaceful. You tell me: and if so, why not married, Don Feliciano? Listen, my boy,
why I had to marry if I live happy single? What do you need me? I have at home the girls that I care
for what you want mouth, which I love ... (Poor man, quite another thing to be said in the town.)
And other things ... God never fails, eh, my boy? ... Also, while you're young you suffer
much. Everything becomes desire, and rage ... A fire in here that leaves you calm ... But
when the years come and stops the heat lover and is a cool as a cucumber, then, big, my boy!
... Look, if I might say now, "Feliciano," want to become at twenty? "Ca! another dog with that
bone. The great age of man, fifty years. Do not hesitate, Gonzalín. Now is when you know what
it is to eat and sleep in peace.

Is there any guy who is worth a fresh source of freshly fried sardines? ... And a lobster
with cider served by the espichón? Can not you make your mouth water, son of soul? ... You
now get married and kisses and "my life" for here "my soul" over there, right? ... Well, well,
that neglects everything will come. This is good, but this is better ... The girl is from a
good family ... Don Rosendo is rich ... Going well, you well, my boy ... But hey, why do not you
marry with small, Venturita, which is prettier? I'm not saying that the former is ugly, but
not no doubt that the latter is more beautiful, a rosebud. What eyes so naughty! What hair! What
teeth! What panache! In short, if you're committed to not say anything else ... But what is as beautiful!
... And the family, the same ...

These words made a strange impression on Gonzalo. The thought thus expressed was formula brutal,
but accurate and precise in its vague guess, a certain uneasiness
that had been the night before.

Indeed, what beautiful eyes, so naive and malicious at the same time! What alabaster skin! What
lips, what teeth, what golden skein hair! Cecilia, the poor, was even thinner than when he was
gone and most awkward. How he liked that girl? Gonzalo simply confessed to like ... what really
like is called ... Venturita as now, for example, never liked it. So why ... Who knows what
these questions! He was a child, did not talk to ladies. The kindness of the former was impressed
... After a certain vanity of having a girlfriend ... Then distance that enlarges and improves
things ... In short, everything had combined to link you that girl ... But if he had ever seen a
Venturita! ... It was better not to think about it. The matter was too advanced to turn back.

Contrary
to his custom, he remained a good fifteen minutes looking pensive ivory balls rolling without
seeing them.

Don Feliciano was gone. At last his sanguine temperament overcame strong those who wanted to disturb
him insane nervousness. Alzose seat. Traits its appearance, made temporarily widened and spread,
for her smile calm that characterized. At the same time shrugged with supreme disdain. With gesture seemed
to say: - "I marry the ugliest of girls Belinchón ... Well, what Why? Anyway, whether with one
or the other, but not marry me no! I shall be happy. I do not need that happiness comes from outside
me. I carry within me, in this mood of an angel God gave me, money that my parents left me in
this health inconceivable, in this bull's strength ... "

When he came back into the Saloncillo, greatly disturbed their daily
gatherings found with the news that Severino had just brought the
hardware store you do not know :--«¿ what's up, gentlemen?

"- Everyone gets up and surround him. The dealer speaks visibly moved .-- This night they
robbed and killed Don Laureano .-- What don Laureano, the fifth? - Yes, the the Watermill ...
They say the two and a half, more or less, nine masked men entered at home, the servant ground
with sticks, tied to the lady and the maid and Don Laureano cut his throat ... Before you think
he did suffer a lot to force him to drop the money ... The good man
had no more than twelve thousand pieces, and they determined he had
hidden cat ... They tied around here, save is the part, and strip
strip to make it sing ...

A shiver of horror shook the Sarrió remarkable.

Pale as if they stayed they had been rigged and all that appalling torment. The fifth of the Watermill
was a league of the town, in the solitude of a pine forest, but nobody took that into account. Could
be seen and attacked in their homes in the New or Caborana Rua and killed most cruel. Especially those
jerks! Holy Christ, what an atrocity!

After the first moments of surprise, the comments began quietly. Thieves would not be very far
away. However, remember that not Sarrió or around there such a thing ever happened. Marin said
he did day and saw some suspicious men night. This news came in a healthy surrounding terror which
was not revealed. All proposed not to leave home at night, without communicating, however,
so successful resolution.

The mayor said that in his opinion, the thieves must have come from Castilla Castilla .-- What?
- Yes, sir, Castilla ... Have heard my father (God rest his soul) that occurred five years seventeen
men on horseback armed Sariego, surrounded the people and robbed Jose Maria Herrero sixty thousand
hard he had hidden under one of the brick home.

At any other time, the circles have noted that this would have happened Sariego event in year
five, did not necessarily mean the same thing happen in Windmills year sixty. But now no one dared
to contradict the risky proposition. And they went quietly cementing the event, and seemed
all agree on the views most extravagant and contradictory.

But as he had not ever the case that Gabino Maza nod for more than ten minutes which was spoken
in his presence, took pretext a very simple indication, made by Mr.
Feliciano Gómez, with perfect naturalness and modesty that characterized
the speeches of this distinguished merchant, to fall upon him a so
violently as unjustified.

- I wonder you do not drop some kick!

What do you want to register houses neighbors?

I figure that you'll find there's money very apiladito Don Laureano.

-
If is not the money, find some evidence ...

- What, knucklehead,
what?

Armed himself well-known dispute. It screamed, was moved beyond words.

Finally, no one could understand, as usual.

The voices were heard throughout the square well the Navy, but passers
were used, and not stopped to listen.

V

THIEVES!

And since then Sarrió notable not set foot on the street at night,
as discreetly it had proposed.

The gathering of the Club last minute, the store Graells, Morana of the same, were abandoned.
The four or six blacksmiths set in the villa could not give or comply with the numerous requests
for locks, bars of iron and master keys that made them all homes. The thieves Windmills were
not incurred. All predicted, more or less foundation, who were prowling population to fall on
her to sack a deadline.

However, as the man gets used to everything,
even to the disease by up to conferences Ateneo, Sarrió neighbors,
after a few days became accustomed to danger. Began to leave their
homes, it was quite dark, but with proper precautions. The first Marin
was to venture. Being frustrated all the efforts made to Dona Brigida
an hour is sound asleep, threw home without pity