 

X

Well, sir, now tying the end of this story, I ate that day saying
that Mrs. with a good appetite, and as he took the food purchased
with hard-blind Almudena easily digested pious frauds that her maid
and companion he was getting into the body.

Had come to have such confidence in Doña Paca provision of Benin, who barely bothered Now for the
challenges of tomorrow, confident that the other had to overcome with the diligence and knowledge
of the world, won him much protection of the blessed D. Romualdo. Love and maid ate together and
table Doña Paca told him: "You should not spare the time these gentlemen, and if your duty is to serve
no more than twelve, if you ever want you're there in the afternoon, estate, woman, and I will
understand me here as I can.

- That's not - responded Benina - which is time for everything, and I can not miss here. They are
good, and take over ...

- Well they are known.

I ask the Lord to reward the good treatment they give you, and my biggest today would be happy
to know that D. Romualdo I made him bishop.

- Well, sounds like the run run they're going to propose, yes, ma'am,
Bishop not know how, beyond the islands of the Philippines.

- So far?

No, not that. Over here they have to leave to do much good.

- Same Patros think, you know? most of the nieces.

- Is that you've said has gray hair and squint a bit?

- No, this is the other.

- Ya, ya ... Patras is the stuttering, and suffers from tremors.

-
That.

He says that where they go for these seas so far ... No, no simple is better cure here, archbishop
there, where they say, are noon when here we twelve o'clock at night.

- In the antipodes.

- But the sister, Doña Josefa, said that come the miter, and is where God wills, she not afraid
to go to the end of the world, so to see the reverend in the position
it deserves.

- He may be right.

What do we do more than we will settle the Lord, if we are so far
in that amparándote to you, protects me, too?

You know God does, and could even be that what we believe was a poor well, and that D. good
Romualdo, to leave, leave us well recommended by a bishop here, or to own Nuncio ...

- I think so. Anyway, there we will see. "

It was not here the conversation about the imaginary priest, who knew Doña Paca and as if he had
seen and treated, forged in his mind a real type with elements descriptive and picturesque Benina
one day and another gave him.

But what else is pecked is in the pipeline to make room for things
of greater importance.

"Tell me, woman. And what does Obdulia?

- Nothing. What to tell the poor? Luquitas the crook does not seem that way two days ago. Ensures
the child will have money, they took a stuffed, and he spends it with a mort Bonetillo the
street.

- Jesus me excuses! And his father, what does?

- Reprimand, punish, if you are caught by hand. What is this and does not straighten. The girl
send him food from home of parents, but so rated, that does not reach
the tusk.

Would die starve if I did not take it took. Poor angel! Well, you see, these days I I found
her happy. You know the girl is. When there are more reasons for is happy, gets to mourn, when
it should be sad, is marketed as a lark. Only God understands that panpipes and how to tune it.
Well I have seen happy, yeah lady, and it gives good things to figure out. Better way. It is believed
that all what they make themselves into your head. Thus, they are happy when they should be
miserable.

- Well if you get on the other hand, help you to feel ... And she was alone, entirely alone
with the girl?

- No, Madam, there was this gentleman so fine that accompanies some
mornings, that is family of the Delgados, countrymen you.

- Ya ...
Ponte bottle.

Imagine if you will know. It is my land, or of Algeciras, which is
to be the same.

Has been elegantón and strives to be still ... I warn you it's because
older than a palm ... Good person, a gentleman of principle, and knows
how to deal with ladies such that it is unusual and, for now everything
is rude and impolite.

Ponte becomes a brother-cousins ??of my husband because he married her sister ... In short, I do
not remember kinship.

Glad you treating my daughter, because you agree to this subject
relations dignified, decent and good position.

- For the position
of this D. Bottle it seems to me that is like that of which is mounted
air, as well as the bright.

- In my day was a bachelor who was given
a good life.

Had a good job, ate at home large, and spent the night at the Casino.

- As should now be poorer than a rat, for the nights they are passed
...

- Where?

- In the enchanted palaces of Bernarda Sena, Grande
Rue de Midi ... the house of sleep, You know

- What you tell me?

-
That Ponte sleeps there when he has the three real hard bed in the
bedroom first.

- You are upset, Benin.

- I've seen, ma'am.

Bernarda is my friend. Was what gave us those hard eight, You know when Mrs. had to get an extra
card, and pay to send this to Ronda.

- Ya ... which came every day to claim the debt and we would fry the blood.

- Same. As with all good women. We have called for justice, although we threatened. Others are
worse.

You know you're rich, and sleep six houses he has, not lower than forty thousand dollars it has earned,
yes ma'am, and all this has put in Bank, and lives of interest.

- What things look!

Well is the world ... To return to the gentleman Ponte, so they called him in Andalusia, where
as poor as you say, will pity him ... And you better so, because the reputation the girl might
suffer some, if instead of being such a wreck, a poor beggar Levite
was a possible suitor, though old.

- I believe - Benina said laughing,
as his condition was shown in quantitative jovial that cares Life
gave him a break - which goes beyond ... to embalm him ... Lack good
makes.

And hurry up, before it is corruto. "

Doña Paca laughed a little with those occurrences, and then requested information of the other family.

"When
children have not seen him today or yesterday - said Benina - but I've said Juliana anda running
now as the same fumes, because with this the trancazo, have gone many advertisers of medicines.
Think a lot of money and take it a newspaper, particularly Store things putting a guess, where
they sell this article or other item. The two twins look like two rolls of butter, but well cooked
and well cooked they cost, He loves all know when they begin eating, but not when it ends. The
Juliana told me to prove some of the carnage that has to send his
uncle the day of the saint, and also two sections of booties, of spoiled
in the shoe to where she stitched.

- It is good that girl - Doña
Paca said gravely - but so ordinary, that does not match or never
match me.

Your gifts offend me, but I thank you for the good will ... Finally, it is time for us to
go to bed. Well, I think it is half done digestion, prepare the medicine in half an hour. Tonight I'm
more full of legs, and very lost sight. Holy God, if I go blind! I do not know what this is. As well,
thanks God and I will view every day, without my eyes ache. I do not spend the night awake, thank
you, that everything goes through me, and wake up, I deleted things my legs and made of cotton.
I say: What has to do with the visual rheumatism? I send to wander. But where am I going with
this facade, no decent clothes, fearing bumping at every step with people who knew me in another
position, or with those guys and ordinary profanity to whom we owe any amount? ".

Benina remembered hearing this the most important thing I had to tell his wife that night,
and not wanting to leave to the last minute, fearing to be unveiled,
before they left the kitchen, and while again and picked up the few
pieces of china to scrub, no Francisca disdaining this under-served,
said in a tone more natural to use known:

"Ah!

I do not remember ... What a head I have! Today I met Mr. D. Carlos Moreno Trujillo. "

He remained suspended Doña Paca, and came near to it fell from his hands the plate was washing.

'D.
Carlos ... But did you say D. Carlos? And what ... Do you speak, you asked for me?

- Naturally, with an interest ...

- Is it really?

In good times you remember me such a miser, who has seen me falling
into poverty, to me, the sister of his wife ... Purita and Antonio
because my brothers were, you know ... and has not been to reach out
...

- Last year, a day like today, when she became widowed, sent
the lady a Socorrito.

- Six hard!

What a shame! - Doña Paca said, turning his anger and animosity and despite accumulated in his
soul for so many years of disgrace and scarcity -. My face put as it were fire. Six hard! Purita
and some rags, dirty gloves, skirts broken, and a suit of society,
ancient, from when he married the Queen ... What helped me those crap?

... Finally, you continue: I found it, what time, what site?

- It was about 0:30. He left San Sebastian ...

- I know who spends all morning from church to church, gnawing bases. You say to 0:30? For if at
that time were you serving lunch to D. Romualdo! ".

It was not Benina woman cowered by this fuck. His mind, so fruitful for the lie, and his memory
most happy to sort the lies he had told before to support and enforce
them of the new lie, took her out of trouble.

"But I said to you that when they had set the table, missing a bowl,
and I to go in a hurry to buy the Plaza del Angel, and Mina Espoz
corner?

- If you tell me I can not remember.

But how were leaving the kitchen just before serving lunch?

- For the lass that we do not know the streets, and also do not understand shopping. Had taken
a century, and brings a basin fixed instead of a bowl ... I was flying,
Patros while he stayed in the kitchen ... he understands, believe
me it means both like me or more ... Anyway, I found the old thing
of D. Carlos.

- But to go from street to Espoz Greda and Mina did
not have to go through San Sebastian women.

- I say he was leaving
San Sebastian.

I saw him coming there, looking at the clock on Canseco. I was in the store. The shopkeeper
came out to greet him. D. Carlos saw me, talk ...

- And what did he say? Tell me what you said.

- Ah ... I said, I said ... He asked the lady and children.

- Does
it matter to your heart of stone the mother or the children!

A man who has Madrid thirty-four houses, they say, as many as the age of Christ and one more,
a man has earned lots of money being smuggled gender, spreading to
the U.S. Customs and cheating half the world, cuddling cum now!

In good times, green sleeves ... We say that I despise him, I'm proud
of my misery others, if poverty is a barrier between he and I ...
Because this is not about the poor but with your account and reason.

Cree to delivering farthing alms and cheaply be provided by the prayers
of the humble, may deceive and defraud up eternal glory, or sneak
contraband into the sky, making go through what is not, as introduced
the lisle percale declaring a real and half the staff, to march false,
false invoices, false certificates of origin as well ... Did you say
that?

Say, have you told?

XI

- I did not say that, madam, nor had to do - said Benina saw that Dona Francisca was excited
too, and that all the blood at her face up.

- But you do not remember what you did to me he and his wife, who was also Alexander in fist. Then
when they started my disasters, took advantage of my struggle to do his business. Instead
of helping, they pulled the rope to strangle me sooner. I saw devoured by usury, and were not
offering me a loan in good condition.

They could save and let me die.

And when I saw I must sell my furniture, they bought from me for a piece of bread, golden
room chairs and silk curtains ... Were the lookout for bargains,
and lost me, threatened with foreclosure, of course ... presented
as saviors ... What I got for the San Nicolas de Tolentino, school
Sevillian was the jewel of the house of my husband, a picture he felt
more than his own life?

What gave me? Twenty hard Benina of my soul, twenty hard! As I took silly in an hour, and I,
who died of anxiety and shock, not knowing what I did. For a man Museum told me later that the
painting was worth less than ten thousand pieces ... You see what people! Not only true charity
is always ignored, but neither knew the delicate lining. From what we received from Ronda, buts,
piñonates and alfajores, we sent him a good Pura part. Then they met with a tray of sweets on
the day of San Antonio, and some kitsch bazaar on my birthday. D. Carlos was as freeloading,
almost every day dropped home at the time that drinking coffee ... And how it licked! You
know that your house is not was more than dishwater. And if we were going to play together,
eat at my box, always arranged so that Anthony bought tickets ... Of rudeness that used to
all the time our car, anything I say. And remember the same day that we adjust the sale of
the stalls, they were walking on it every bit of the afternoon, giving him a resounding ratatouille
the Castellana and Retirement. "

Benina refused to take the rope breaks and negative, because I knew that when was fired at that
issue was best left to give him every lap. Until we put Mrs. point, flushed and breathless, did not
venture to say, "Well D. Carlos told me to go home tomorrow.

- Why?

- To talk to me ...

- As if I saw it.

Want to send a charity ... Just: Today is the anniversary of the Pure death ... Get away with
any crap.

- Who knows, lady! You may be starting ...

- Is that?

I can already see that puts you in his hand a couple of pesetas or
a pair of hard, believing that this feature has to lower the angels,
playing violins and guitars, to praising his charity.

If I were you, refuse alms.

While we have our D. Romualdo, we can afford a little bit of dignity, Nina.

- Not in our interest

.