 This is explained Reyes the instructions
given to the respective commissioners passed, and the river or stream Garey are closer to
the river Xejuí pouring in Paraguay in the 24 ° 12 'N Southern, which is well outside the tropics,
and leaves to the northern part of Iquamandiyú our peoples, Concepcion, Belen and Tacuarí, with the best
yerbales of this province.

The river is no doubt that the name assigned to the treaties Igurey juniors and seniors, is the
river Yaguarey or Yaguarí, which also has the names of Monici é Ibinheyma and empties Parana
in the West Bank towards the latitude of 22 ° -1 / 2, on the Big Leap Paraná. Yaguarey This is much
more water than the Garey, Amambay Igatimí and therefore more appropriate to limit, but may
be wrong, because, besides being well known, is the only entering the three mouths Paraná. Besides
that, Yaguarey there is so little to Igurey distance and identity so that it can and should
be copied by mistake from which treaties or the map had in mind for them. Indeed, it is easy
to see that the voice Igurey is altered and corrupted, it is not significant in Guaraní, when the
Yaguarey and Yaguarí are, and very pure.

The headwaters of the Yaguarey or Yaguarí, according to newspapers and maps of the markers past, are
closer to those of another very mighty river that flows into the Paraguay for its coast East, in the
torrid zone, towards the latitude of 22 ° 4 ': whose circumstances, and sometimes combined with
the penultimate and treated in accordance with the instructions of their respective commissioners,
determined to these, but it had controversy or doubt, to believe that the treaty by calling Corrientes,
and to put this name on his map of the ward, when, before seeing Igatimí river, marking the
Paraguay River to the Jaurú.

This river, believed Corrientes, has also the circumstances of high flow rate, and to be unequivocal,
it enters the Paraguay, together with some hills, these markers called Itapucú.

Addition to the above, the Yaguarí, and having their heads closer to him, sheds the river Paraguay,
covering well and navigation facilities of both crowns, leaving them far from the Spanish settlements,
and more the Portuguese.

All this is more conformable to the intention of the Sovereign, the most established in their
orders, instructions and treated, and includes the daily and final demarcation maps, the originals
solemn, signed by the respective commissioners, and approved by both courts, stop at the These
files, to which I refer: Limited to include a copy of a piece of
the map final demarcation, for the better understanding of what I
said.

So, no man just be separated from what I say, no doubt that the river has all the earmarks Yaguarí
without lacking one, be the SS. MM. indicated by the name of Igurey, and if the same were
present to make such treaties.

I know that has been applied to the Portuguese efforts that support Igatimí under of instruction
agreed to by both courts, on 6 June. I am also persuaded that any VE has managed to persuade
this idea, as Your Excellency orders me to demarcate the rivers Igatimí é Ipan, but I have
to blame for that lack of good news, is sought what hurts us infinitely, and to my view, is against
the royal orders and instructions I have, because everything has been done without my knowledge,
that being so, it must be assumed that I am more educated on this point. Nor is it in my hand
I understand the real instruction cited as clearly as I have seen and treated as subordinate
to, or that others understand absolute, being conditional and subject to the treaty, because
that does not support surrogacy of Ipan é Igatimí but under the false assumption that there
are no Igurey and Corrientes; but if they exist, as I have seen,
the treaty must prevail over it.

For VE is more convinced of this, suffice it to say, I have orders to SM, communicated by Mr. Conde
de Floridablanca Mr. D. Jose Galvan, and for this to Mr. D. Juan Jose de Vertiz, the April 7, 1782,
in which preference is given to the treaty.
The fact of chief of the 3. Th game forces me to say to your Excellency,
that, according real instruction on June 6, I can not demarcate the
river Igatimí, as I commanded, but in the case of not finding Igurey
river in my view there: and as for the Ipan, I can not accept in any
case