 She has loved me, she loves me still. How
am I going to regret? Who, for fear of losing it, he regrets having done? "

Such was the letter from Don Braulio, which closed carefully and certified
to not be lost, before confiding to the mail.

Made and their delicate and pathetic confidences felt more relieved
and serene, and available resigned to fulfill the promise to bring
that night and Ines Beatriz to Jardines del Buen Retiro.

VII

Dramatic poets have to talk to their characters according to the nature, condition and passions
that they represent, but in such a narrow box, such as a drama, there is good how to put corrective
to the evil doctrines or statements that such immoral characters may issue. So dramatic poets
poor fluctuate between two rocks. Or converted to their heroes and heavy annoying preachers,
or, if allowed to speak as that naturally inspires passion, commit to respond to posterity,
and if their works do not go that far, to his contemporaries, all losses, delusions and dreams
that forcibly put into the mouths of the children of his imagination, heated and vehement. Thus,
for illustrious example of this, we quote Euripides, who, since ancient times, have accused
of corrupting.

We know that Caesar, in order to justify all the insolence and wickedness that he used to seize
the dictatorship, often repeated some verses of tragic mentioned.

I am generally very opposed to teach anything entertaining works of literature, and a thousand
times opposite if highest education is sinful. For this I write novels,
not drama.

In novel explanations fit all: achieving poison antidote is administered. The author may take
the floor in the middle of the narrative and contradict his characters, mitigating or followed
by drowning in the bad effect that the views of any of them were produced.

Taking advantage of this permit, and to quiet my conscience, scrupulous tired, I have now speak
of Don Braulio and his letter, which contains risky propositions
certainly and that, believed by the naive reader might pervert one
of the ugliest perversions known: the genius considered understood
exceed unjustly neglected.

Don Braulio worked as a black in office, passed by an employee honest
and intelligent and not discovered his genius or semigenio fumes but
as quietly as his closest friend.

Proudly served his theory of comfort, or at least relief, in certain
bitterness and suspicion, tormented him cruelly, without knowing yet
how much had Beatriz reason for this.

Don Braulio, finally, if deemed victim, did not blame society as a whole, nor any individual
uniquely, but assumed that all emanated, by fatally and inevitably of the same kind of things.

In
sum, Mr. Braulio, melancholy temperament, little favored by fortune, and love and jealous not know
who, perhaps delirious forging theories, but would not let such theories
transcended into practice, and seemed, in view of more lynx, as an
employee modest I knew all that mattered was to know and care as do
to earn the salary conscience and not defraud the public purse or
take the hospice offices for people frock coat or privileged beggars.

As for the theory itself, there is little to say against, but here we will not philosophize, but
to narrate. I will say, however, that even assuming that each degree of culture that society
is coming only require a certain degree of understanding for the practical and daily, and other
grades are entirely superfluous, useless and even harmful, except
in exceptional cases, still will have to concede that the understanding
is not the only power the soul that goes to the man to be achieved,
the will, character, also fall by much.

Moreover, the understanding, in essence, is similar to God nobody sees, nobody know, nobody
but reverence and respect in their work. So Don Braulio, or any another might have more than
20 degrees of understanding, in their feelings, were necessary or convenient for the practical,
but when plus, when this surplus is not intellectual says nothing, but ruin the understanding that
is in use, there is no reason to complain that the world does not applaud or awe of the invisible
and hidden that can not fathom, nor penetrate, nor fathom. Who knows if the self-deceiving and
makes many people believe that have that understanding excessive
and unnecessary, and may not have but a superlative dose fatuity