 

The apprehended no answer, and seemed determined to use the most studied reserve your correspondent,
who showed keen interest in locking relationship.

- Is telescope that? - Insisted the unofficial.

The owner of the telescope did not answer.

Semiavergonzado the questioner, voyeur everyone we surrounded the
lord of the telescope, looking like a geeky guy who confesses to a
false position.

But our man was not to assign individual strains and two relapsed.

- Do I want to leave to look for a moment?

The owner of the telescope did not answer this time.

- Hey, mister! - Timidly repeated touching on the arm - I want to stop looking?

The telescope took his eyes of glass, turned to see who spoke and
answered dryly:

- No!

The snubbed tried to forge a smile to hide.

Meanwhile, had won seats at the gate of the seawall where we were, a lady fat, with a style of bananas
on which hung a Spanish mantilla sheet, tucking side by all the obstacles that had found its
way, the face lit by a layer recently applied rouge, distributed a perennial smile everywhere,
and tucked in a green dress Moiree, inflated by a moving and oscillating crinoline appeared Balloon
in a time of rising.

A mole with hair on the lower face of our new arrival was a roguish air coquette withdrawal.

He was accompanied two undistinguished-looking girls, but plenty of
cuddles and perendengues, bodies with a well designed, and a bust
in which nature or art had abused with some insolence of a marked
inclination to the exuberance.

The two girls, coming from the neighborhood of Montserrat probably
verged on the 20 or 22 years and entered our group, which was narrowing,
putting an unusual cacophony of screams and laughter which I could
not explain causes.

- Look, Mom - said the eldest, - this gentleman
is so friendly, that will let you look through the telescope.

- By
God, Rachel! do not bother this man ... What to say about us! - Answered
with a tone of reproach Mrs. apparent.

- Sir, sir!

Will you let us see out there? - Hinted the other girl.

- Ah, no, by God, not bother you! ... Judith, by God, shut up - repeated
the mother a continuous head wiggle.

The telescope remained impassive as a statue, as if no one spoke.

-
There is smoke, there are - shouted one nearby.

The human wave was stirred and an eddy, the people were grouped in the rail, everyone wanted to
see. I, pinned Alexander, perched on their shoulders, dominated the height.

- Oh, I wrinkle! --- Cried the mother of Rachel and Judith, without the help crinoline up .-- Oh,
my dress, I spoil it all! I do not see Judit!

Judit, Judith, Judiiit!

Judith, who was nearby, and whom the mother could not find, talking to a young slouch hat, black
shiny material of alpaca coat and starched white trousers, without
saving distances that is, bound to him by a close unused.

- Oh, my
daughter, my daughter!

Where is my daughter? I have lost my daughter! Judith Judiiit! - Exclaimed Mrs. prolonging
the scream.

- Here I am, Mom, no fuss, here I am - finally answered Judith, making it possible to loosen the
hand of her beau, which held firmly to her not to go.

- Do not move
from here, hussy, do not separate me.

You come too, Raquel. Oh, Jesus! Well I said your father! Do not mess much among people with
the girls, Donata; sight not bold miss your hands in the brawl and
that you too have to handle: What people, by God, what people!

What lack of respect with the ladies! How much better would not been going to the heights of Columbus!
...

But the crowd pulled him moving around. Uploaded by Alexander, who with his arm it was free, he
made his way as a Hercules, we went to take another position.

Yo, from the shoulders elevated my driver, saw the poor Dona Donata
and her two biblical creatures, victims of the prognosis of her husband
and manhandled by the mob undisciplined between the lad who had pirated
it rude daughters and undid him bananas and tore his splendid parrot-colored
dress, supreme admiration Montserrat district in a mass.

- I have
anchored, moored vessels have already! - Screaming around us .-- You
see, sir, - I said a black gentleman petizón, tiptoe in vain to see,
- see, there there - and pointed his index finger.

- Where?

Where? - Questioned the other impatiently, standing on tiptoe.

- There are, there has anchored the waterfall, there the Pampero, behind the Hercules who comes
walking is still the Pintos, and the other two boats are sailing
left, the San Juan Bautista and the Rio Bamba.

- Che! and you how
you know the ship - said Alexander.

- Oh! I do not see the lower,
friend - said the black .-- Look - added, - the destination for gigs
to seek officers, and the whale to land the troops.

Bomb! Pas! That is the Cordoba ago saved.

And indeed, a sudden white cloud enveloped the ship's sides and the echo of cannon dilated echoing
dully through the spaces.

It was three in the afternoon of that sweltering day, the church bells cast in flight, rockets
and bombs bursting in air without interruption. As the troops landed, the battalions were formed in
the spring column. While this operation took place, Alejandro and I beheld from afar, leaning
over the fence, because we had left pass kiosks, entry forward.

On the beach, and at the foot of the seawall where we were, several rounds of Bass, in evening
gown, had gathered to hear two of them, one armed with a guitar heavily ribbed white and blue,
and one with an accordion, singing songs chauvinistic one of those tunes compadrito characteristics
of Buenos Aires.

- You sing the ring! - Shouted one of the listeners.

- Your godmother! - Then said the guitarist, who actually had his
eyes more twisted than a crossroads.

- Sing what you arreglao ché
pa National Guard.

The guitar with the accordion attacked a vulgar air, but rhythmic,
ancestor straight from the milonga of the day, and behind the air,
the nasal voice said ferrule and shocking the following couplet:

Our
National Guard in Cepeda and Pavón, bravely unparalleled was launched
on the barrel the federal coward.

- Lindo, Don Polybius!

      If you Naide verseador race
    and wins. Even the gringos
    of the whaling were drooling
    when you sing.
    

The shrill wheeze of the accordion would have followed, along with the wailing of the guitar
if military bands had not announced that the column, formed already
got underway along the waterfront.

That was when the crowd blocked the entrance, snatched by a row of
guards armed, in charge of opening streets, swirled and fell back,
compact, to tighten against the walls of the neighboring houses, a
troop of horsemen came from the town, occupied abandoned space.

Gold dazzled me gals, white feathers and blue elastics agitated by the wind, the bright colors of
the uniforms. Alexander I lifted up so that he could see well, but barely had time to descry an elastic
covering a long and rich mane of locks falling on an indolent and spacious front lead-colored
eyes, all this supported on a body that would not have disdained to Doré Lafayette in drafting
a distance. I wanted to see more, but the riders did prance their horses, the first row of
the column appeared, and just came to my ear the echo of Olympic accents a proclamation but nice to
be extinguished in unison roar of applause taxed for twenty thousand hands. I also cheered
and clapped his hands.

- Why applauds - Alejandro told me, in a bad mood - if you hear nothing?

- Oh - I said - do you need to understand? How also applaud all the
others without understand?

VIII

At night, my uncles, as I promised, I was taken to the Victoria Theatre. Delgado García company
sang the National Anthem and representing the flower of a day, Camprodón. Oh, flower of a day!
Oh, Pavón Spanish dramatic theater! Why is my fantasy Eccentric see you disappear in the past,
in the same grave that swallowed the crinolines and banana hair? Was not Lola the loveliest
and most romantic of women? Did not Diego had the outline poetic lover and the Marquis de
Montero grave picture of a baritone zarzuela sad?

Why have to be a nonsense, oh legitimate daughter of Don Francisco Camprodón adopted by every
theater in Latin America? You have done an entire continent from tears Vera Cruz to Buenos Aires!

You
have died with the white robe, for, as well as suede gloves, long
and wrinkled, on thin, nervous arm of Sarah Bernhardt has given his
brushwork to Frou-Frou, and the white robe with blue belt, made you,
Lola made the prototype of all women of your time!

What the devil! You have had your own place in the century of Hernani! ... Presidents and ministers,
generals and great lawyers of Argentina, have believed in you as the Republic had believed
in them! Your octosyllabic murmuring stirred over night chest of the Virgin and the theater was
not just your domain! It was also the family, home, for all assailed him from the room of my Aunt
Medea to the Academy of blacks and mulattoes was my brown hawk Alejandro. I still remember
the gesture scandalously irreverent Voltaire Dr. Velez that mocked you one night, giving discordant
note in all your generation literature. I argue and argue as long as you have done to many of
our poets: and enough to reflect a bit to notice that every social event seemed you in those
days.

Phone lines became classics. Gravely cited in the editorial by journalists contemporaries and
the Chamber of Deputies for novice speakers with the same respect that in citing the statistical
restoration of Boileau.

The day of the country belonged to you; you all owned the day a national holiday! Until you patriotic
drama made by the author of your life without knowing it!

Some of your phrases as: "Do you have your sword tip?" Were enshrined as the Di quella pyre and
the donna e mobile from Verdi.

There was so realistic, Mr. Pickwick had not crossed the Atlantic, was presiding over his club
Bath, Nana was a microbe; Artagnan was professor of history, the Girondins taught politics.
It was the time of the Cavatina, cracked rudimentary accompaniments; Lohengrin drinking glasses
emblazoned Moselle in Bavaria, the Troubadour was the opera and Tamberlick Mirati, you were the drama
with Rodriguez and Bigon, with Love and Vilardebó. Theatre de la Victoria was your field!

Oh, my good and brave comedians that night were all!

My imagination conjures up, parade Sleep like the ghosts of the past and enter the dark and forgotten
pantheon of glory Argentine art, there I will get up a monument with the remains of wardrobe Dagnino,
they had everything, forming the base hull Gonzalo de Cordoba, covered by the blanket wool mottled
ermine Isabel the Catholic, Don Juan Tenorio vola on Earthquake Martinique while Almudaina Bell
plays the alarm by hanging of the steps of a gallows.

But on this pyramidal tomb, built at the Talma and Keen of the large village, three figures rise:
Lola, Diego and the Marquis, singing the national anthem prior to having their naive poem of
jealousy and love to a room full, where the most beautiful women shine of those days. Come in,
oh shadows!

       

* * * * *

We occupied a stage-right balcony, that old beam immediately bleached supporting the roof and
its thickness defied the forces of Samson himself.

My aunt had been accompanied by Miss Fernanda, I was accustomed to seeing frequently at home.
Fernanda was eighteen years old, pale, clear eyes and big, cold and as bewildered among the dense shaded
circles that, in his thick lips that drew a mouth that could be called great without injustice, trazábase
not know what vague smile on a shrewd observer would have found love and contempt together in a consortium
inexplicable; the head was noble and proud, however. At that time, which was an epic hairstyles
of rollers and stuffed his Fernanda had such a simple, bordering on great elegance: her hair, a
blond mate, collected and held by two strips of blue Moiree, were to finish in the most beautiful
woman's neck. His little heart, had, however, I do not know how appealing seduction, dilated by
the softness around her bust, that grace her face radiated apathetic indolent the brush of Veronese
printed on the face of Venetian patrician. Was in short, that woman a set of coldness and
eloquence, beauty and flaws that irresistibly attracted, and the
originality of gesture and look aroused in me a deep and greedy curiosity.

Fernanda,

leaning over the railing, standing hear the anthem, and when he finished, he left carelessly dropped
on his chair and opened her huge white feather fan, with a flourish full of innate sensuality.
What a contrast was that delicate creature with my aunt Medea! A distinction was personified,
the wrapping, the steam perfumed elegance an and good tone. The other was a faun obese, his
voice thick, its short neck, his chest invasive a mighty mustache, mustache was already almost,
made it a chimera, in which both sexes blur. That night was truly studded with diamonds from
head to fingers, and as it had, and very good, one of their pride was hung for display.

Restless and talkative, kept a real telegram of greetings to the entire theater with the boxes,
with the bowl, with the audience, everyone knew everyone greeted francachonamente with the fan.

Suddenly,
a murmur of sympathy spread throughout the entire room and all eyes
converged the central stage of the facet: many characters, dressed
in the strictest etiquette, taking seat.

My aunt began to name them all.

- Saluda, Ramon, compliments - I
told my uncle.

- If you come here, Medea ...

- Yes you are, greet
you say - and my aunt, at the same time ordering him to my uncle who
salute, was repeated head movements towards the central stage, without
being noticed by their occupants.

- Who are they, madam? - Asked
Fernanda.

But my aunt did not answer, determined to put your greeting in the
faces of their idols and that her husband also places him physically
shot it the arm and told him to wait for the occasion propitious to
move the neck.

Suddenly it seemed that they looked.

- That looks don Buenaventura!

There you see the doctor told Trevexo ...--, - now!

... greets, Ramón.

They both nodded urgently, made her a visual balance to hunt the adversary,
but oh, mishap!

A look vague and indecisive, which I had a vague idea, crossed the
line of the boxes without stopping at my aunt's brilliant, and greeting
was a greeting in a vacuum.

My uncle coughed to hide the disappointment. My aunt put the blame, claiming that he had taken the
lead, my uncle wanted to rectify, but was ordered to be silent, and
obeyed.
