 Despite be one
of the richest bankers in Madrid, had refused without fur store, and that this trade, compared with
letters and public purposes that the house had out, soon he represented. Calderon was a different
type of Salabert banker. Had a temperament essentially conservative, timid to a fault for
business, preferring Always small for big gains when it is achieved at risk. Enough intelligence
limited, cautious, hesitant, thorough. Any new company seemed crazy. When fail to see a partner in
some, smiled mischievously and gave himself Rejoice for the great talent he was gifted. If
surrendered gains, shaking his head muttering with relentless pessimism: "The fry will laugh."
Economic, rather greedy, to a degree scandal at home. If she wore to class on a force had been
pleading his wife, made fun of his friends, and especially because he had become convinced that
needed to enjoy a certain prestige outside if it was to compete with the many intelligent bankers
established in court. Times had changed a lot since his father hoarded a significant portion
of the turns in the plaza. But after taking care purchased with such dedication to the preservation of
furniture, such finesse required monitoring the servants, his wife and their children, they really
were all slaves of those expensive devices. For if we in the car, you can not imagine the
fear, countless agitations that cost him. Whenever the driver told him that a horse was unfettered,
was a disappointment. Trunk had a pretty French mares price. The pampered as much or more than
their children. Sacábalas a walk in the evenings, but not leading to the theater for fear of
pneumonia. He preferred that his wife was on foot or by cab, to expose themselves to the loss of
one of them. Needless to say, if one is her sick, what was in our bank. The concern, dejection
on his face was painted. Visitábala often, stroking, and often helped the driver and the vet
to the priests, but consisted of putting enemas. To heal the sick there was no humor in the
house.

He was a husband cominero. For that perhaps he was right. The apathy of his wife was so great that
if he did not take charge of taking the account to cook and manage
the keys cabinets, God knows how would walk home.

Mariana had neither running anything. Its role was the daughter of a family, and accepted it
without regret. Another woman humiliated anyone believe going to need every moment to her
husband for the smallest chores domestic life. She juzgábalo natural, and above all very comfortable
when the sordid economy Calderon did not tighten. The once silently protesting against the exclusive
centralization of administrative powers was his mother, thin lady, sunken eyes, whom we mentioned
in the first chapter. Such protests were not, However, frequent or lasting. In the background
was a perfect agreement between the mother and son. The old widow provincial merchant, who had helped
to carve its capital, was still mistress of order and the economy, rather, was even more stinging
him. For this had not ever been able to live with his son, his excessive spending, and especially
waste, outrageous whims Clementina, irritated, bitter all moments of existence. Calderon's
home, his role was to guard or inspector servitude, which played so marvelously. His son lay
confidence in it. Thanks to this and that Mariana expected to improve in the will, the more
kept considerations relating to it.

Salabert was, at bottom, so greedy as Calderón and almost as shy, but much smarter. His shyness
was offset by a good dose of bravado: his greed for knowledge men deep. He knew well that the
device, the ostentation of wealth, influence significantly even in the minds of the more carefree, contributed
significantly to inspire the confidence to undertake major companies.

Hence the luxury with which he lived, his palace, trains, famous dances from time to time gave Madrid
society. Calderon's character inspired by a profound contempt: while awaking him good humor. Seeing
the smallness of his friend growing up, gazed larger than that actually was and felt great
satisfaction. Judged not only more skilled, beating (Only positive benefits brought him), but
generous and liberal, almost a prodigal.

Penetrated snorting in the dark Street store in San Felipe Neri, leaving as usual stunned, killed,
annihilated dependents, for whom the Duke of Requena not only was the first man in Spain, but
a supernatural being. Producíales his view it impression of fear and excitement, fear and fervent
adoration to the great Japanese Mikado.

And if not prostrate and buried his face in the dust like those, at least he blushed to the ears
and not successful in a few minutes to put pen to the paper or pay attention to what the customer
told them. They looked to signs fear and they began to quietly what everyone knew too well: "The
Duke!" "The Duke!" "The Duke!"

The Duke rose, as usual when by chance was there, without deigning to throw a glance and went straight
to the small apartment where Calderón used to be. Long before reaching he began to say aloud:

-
Wow, Julian! When leaving this cave? This is not a banking house,
is one block away.

No shame that comes to visit. Ugh! But flay here also cattle, or what? There is an unbearable stench.

Calderón
occupied at the end of the store, a corner from the rest by a screen table painted with a
little door spring.

He could hear, then, all the words of his friend before it pushes the screen.

- What is it, man! - Said something piqued by becoming aware of the
invective dependents -; Dukes and we are not all the millions we are
entangled in the feet.

- What a million!

"It takes millions to have an office clean and comfortable? What must confess it hurts you
spend a dime on tidy. I've told you many times, Julian, you are a poor life will be. I'll
be a thousand richest real whenever you a thousand dollars; because
I spend it.

Calderon groaned some protests and continued working. The Duke, still wearing the hat, let himself
fall into the only chair that there was lined with white bandana, or it must have been white.
Now had an indefinable color yellow to amber, green ash and bottle, strong black accents in
places to support the head and hands.

There were also three or four lined sidewalks of the same and in the same state, a pine bookshelf
full of bundles, a small box of values, an ancient writing table in walnut and covered in black
rubber and behind it a rough and greasy chair where he sat the head of the house. That small
apartment was clarified by a window with bars. For pedestrians could not register it had curtains
that, in addition to being the most regular and cheap in gender, offered the curious circumstance
of each too long and the other as short was missing about a quarter to cover the entire glass down.

-
But man, do not let you move in that happy home fur trade, which is not worthy a man of your performance
and your fortune.

- Fortuna ... fortune - Calderón muttered while looking at the paper he was writing -. And I
know that talking about my fortune .... If we were to liquidate,
who knows what would!

Calderon never confessed his money: he enjoyed in lie on the ground. Any reference to annoyed
him extremely rich.

On the contrary, Salabert liked to give in face his millions and represent the Nabob, of course,
to the lowest possible cost.

- In addition - he went with a bad mood - everybody look at what goes in, but no serving what
emerges. The expenses you have are increasing. Do not know what I spent this year, will we see?

-
Not much - said the duke, smiling contemptuously.

- Not much?

Then spend seventy-five thousand dollars, and we're still in November.

-
What? - Said the Duke with deep surprise -.

No way.

- You heard me.

- Go, go, do not put me finger on the eyes, Julian
.... Unless in those seventy five thousand dollars are including the
cost of the house you are making in the Oven Mata.

- Well, naturally.

At Duke he was seized with such a blow to hear this laughter, he almost
drowns.

Cayósele smoking. The face, usually purple, now that was scary. The fit of coughing that came,
accompanying laughter was so intense, that it seemed to subside dam congestion.

- Man, it's funny! Grace has a lot of that! - Said after the flows between laugh and cough
-. I had not happened so far .... From here on out will include in the cost of my house all
purchases of securities and all that builds homes. I will appear spending more than a king.

The so frank and loud laughter of the Duke ran extremely upset and Calderon.

- Do not know what is that laugh .... If you leave the box, on the
expenditure side is .... All However, Antonio else knows the crazy
in your house that the sane on others.

The duke, in some time now, often visits his friend and companion. Began to make the thread to
lure the business of river mines. Approaching the time that the auction was to be effected. Then
needed to have some shareholders consideration. D. Julian was, both representing the capital,
for his character same. Enjoyed in the business world fame cautious of suspicious better. So
that the fact of taking part in any speculation of security clearances, and this was what Salabert
needed. He would not bother, then, very hard and changed the conversation. With great flexibility,
with the refinement it had under its rough bark, he knew put in a good temper praising his
foresight in a failed business where it was left to catch, skinning other tacitly recognizing enemies
and merchants on their superior talent and penetration. When I had it fretted, spoke to him for
the third or fourth time, in vague terms, business mine. Ofrecíalo as an inaccessible ideal
to put him in appetite. If one day off possible to buy the mine, what a great business! She
had never known a lighter in his life. The worse was that the Government was not prepared
to let go. However, f. .., with a little skills and working well, perhaps over time .... Necesitábanse
then some men who had no objection to a good capital investment. If not was in Spain, go abroad
to look ....

Calderón, to hear about a business, such as snails cringed when touched. That of was so fat
now, for the undecided data supplied him with the Duke, who was forced to getting hit in the
shell. So Salabert began to specify a little, stood grim and dark, showed himself wary and restless,
as if he were then to demand the same amount exorbitant.

When he had finished his long speech, a bit incoherent, that seemed
more like a monologue, Duke rose sharply.

- Well, Julianito, I'm
outta here to the Bank.

At the same time took out another cigarette from the flask, and without
offering, because he did not smoke, lit by formula, then let them
go off at once for biting.

D. Julian breathed with satisfaction.

- You always this hectic activity! - Said, smiling and extending his
hand.

- Always follow the money!

When I was about to transpose the door, he remembered that Calderón
could use this visit.

- Hey, Antonio: I have a lot of london there
.... Do you?

I give you cheap.

- I do not need now. How do you yield?

- Forty-seven.

- Do many?

- Eight thousand pounds in all.

- Sorry I did not need them.

It's a good time. Goodbye.

Trasladóse the Bank, attended the meeting, and after nine thousand
dollars effective heel Urreta out with his friend, another famous
bankers of Madrid.

Arriving near of the Puerta del Sol, shook hands in farewell.

-
Where are you going? - Asked Salabert.

- I go from here to Calderon's
house to see if you can give me London.

- It is useless to the ride
- said sharply the first -.

All that was just me taking them.

- Man, sorry. How about how he has?

- Forty-six, ten.

- They are not cheap, but I badly needed and yet the take.

- Do you make you miss it? - Salabert said while throwing his arm over shoulders.

- Really.

- Well I'll be your Providence.

How much do you need?

- Pretty.

Ten thousand pounds at least.

- I can not much, but for eight thousand, you can send this afternoon.

Urreta's face lit up with a grateful smile.

- Man, I can not afford! ... You will be short too ....

- Not as much as you .... But even if .... You know that he loves. Are you the only talented
Gipuzkoa have stumbled so far.

At the same time as you take hugged, gave affectionate pat on the shoulder. Estrecháronse hand again,
and after Urreta burst into phrases of gratitude, to which answer Salabert in that tone campechanote
sharp and both enhances the merit of any service, goodbye.

The Duke immediately took a cab.

- A la calle de San Felipe Neri, number ....

- Okay, Duke - answered
the coachman.

He raised his head to look at him the hero.

- Hello! Do you know me?

And without waiting for the answer he got in and closed the door.

- Julian .... Julian - shouted to his friend before opening the desktop screen -. I come to make a
favor .... How lucky you, damn you! Send me those London home.

- Welcome - cried the banker with triumphant smile -. Do you need?

- If, f. ..., yeah! I've always needed me to do what you should you drop .... Goodbye ....

And without going into the office vacated the screen that had held spring and left. Gave signs the
driver of a hotel in the neighborhood Monastery and leaned at an angle, biting and puffing
his cigar with evident satisfaction. Experimentóla our banker after committing this rascality,
after stripping to his friend a few Calderón pesetas, as the just concluded an act of justice
or charity.

His imagination, always alert for cases where there was money, wandered, as the carriage drove
him to the Hippodrome the various businesses through that was committed, but most notably stopped
mine in the rivers. The combination of Llera seemed to him getting better. However, had its weaknesses.
To reinforce the thinking was applied until the car stopped at the gate of a small hotel cheap
to build, with very ornate plaster and wood that made him resemble the works of confectionery.

Hastened
the doorman to open with compliance. Saved in three steps the tiny garden. Al climb the few stairs
on the ground floor out the door a young maid.

- Hello, Petra: What about your love?

- Sleep yet, Duke.

- Well, are the twelve - she pulled her stopwatch -.

I'm going up anyway.

And passing in front of her, entered the octagonal antesalita. Despojóse the overcoat that got
home and was responsible for hanging. He climbed to the main floor. Entered the bedroom where was a
cabinet room, separated by columns and a brocade curtain. Was furnished with a wealth of dubious
taste. Instead of the label that prints any person, if not entirely vulgar, the decoration
and adornment of their rooms, watched the hand of the furniture maker
to comply commission that has been given, according to the current
pattern.

The wooden doors of the balcony were open.

The light came in through a transparent representing a chocolate-colored landscape. The walls
were padded with yellow damask, gilded chairs were like a center
and a bedside cupboard to put goodies.

Watched in this room, belonging to a woman, the same disorder that usually present rooms for
students or military. Various clothing, petticoats, corsets, stockings, walked scattered chairs.
On the rich velvet carpet had some spit and cigar tips.

In the delicate side table in the center with a liquor bottle almost empty and bowls out of place.
The Duke looked grim at this liquor and gently lifted the curtain of the bedroom. In neat
bed of ebony inlaid with ivory, lay a young white skin, very white,
and black hair, very black.

Rested with abandonment no finesse, in a position of well-fed animal.

Even in the dream is possible to know status and spirituality of
the individual.

Salabert had a moment the curtain suspended.

Then held her carefully, and sitting on had an armchair beside the
bed, began to look intently at the beautiful sleeping.

Because it was indeed beautiful and sublime degree.

His features, notably accurate and sensitive: Greek profile, small
and pretty face, straight nose, a bit thick red lips, the skin, a
wonder of nature, a mixture of alabaster and mother-of roses and milk,
below which ran abundant and rich life.

Hair, black and bright, were loose, staining with scented oil batiste
pillow.

Despite the cold weather, one arm and almost half out of the sheets.

True that in the cabinet burned with vivid, chimney fire. The arm was completely naked and was all
the more beautiful and better turning likely to be in the genre. But the hand that was at the
end of this arm did not correspond its beauty. It was a hand where this idleness had failed to
erase the traces of past work, small hand, but deformed fingers and
aporretados solid, hand elevated commoner suddenly the patricians.

Although the banker did not move, the fixity and eagerness in his eyes fixed upon the young exercised
on it the usual magnetic influence.

After a few minutes changed his position, sighed heavily and opened
his eyes, which were black as ink.

Fijáronse an instant vague expression of amazement at Duke, and closing them again, muttered an
exclamation of road, while sinking his face into the pillow. Then, as if suddenly crossed by
his mind the idea that I had done something bad, turned around, opened his eyes again and He
smiled:

- Hello! Is that you?

At the same time held out his hand. The Duke shook, and rising from his chair gave a loud kiss
on the cheek, saying:

- If you want to let you sleep longer. I have
not been more than a kiss.

But there was one, but a good portion
of it being implemented on both cheeks. The young frowned in disgust
of those caresses, which come from an old should not to be accepted
of him. In addition, it has been said that the lips of the Duke, the
effect of mania biting the snuff, used to be dirty.

Quito, Quito!
- He finally rejected -. I sobes more. I've kneaded enough yesterday
afternoon. I have washed thrice. I took upon me a bottle of white
rose and yet twelve o'clock night I smelled bad.

- The smell of snuff.

No:
I like the smell of snuff. Smell old.

This output brutal aroused
no indignation of the Duke and was to be expected. Laughed and gave
an affectionate pat on the cheek.

- I do not come cheap kisses me.

Nor
is cynical altered replica of the beautiful, that in the same tone
in a bad mood said:

- You bet. And the older you are, you will emerge
more expensive .... Give me a cigarette.

The duke took the clip.

-
Do not bring more than tobacco.

- Do not want that .... There, on
that thing to write, must have. Bring.

The banker took over a small
desk inlaid some cigars and presented. The girl developed one with
the skill of an accomplished smoker and lit the match that Duke was
quick to serve. It tried again bring his lips to the beautiful nasty
face of the smoker, but was repulsed with violence.

- Mira, or you're
standing still or go! - She said with energy -. Sit there.

And he
pointed to the armchair next to the bed.

The banker dropped into
it, looking at the girl with big bulging eyes, expressing fear.

-
You are an increasingly surly cat. You abuse my love, or rather, my
craziness.

He had, indeed, one of the most wanton tempers could be
found. Life had been, in the pretext of women, burning, greedy. Instead
of correcting the years, this hobby was growing up to a nasty habit.
It was noticeable in Madrid. It was known that to meet it, after he
had come to wealth, he had a thousand strange vagaries paid with huge
volumes. He had known and loved by strangers remote countries, them
a Circassian and one black. This passion was really the gate through
which he escaped money like a river. But at the same time was the
only one who did not hurt to spend. The trappings of home caused him
pain, a tingling sharp: he kept for calculation and bravado, but he
weighed in the soul, but apparently something else