 

Observed one day in the cottage or ranch where he had stayed there a few disciplines wax pellets,
armed with acute spine and elsewhere, knowing that there was also a large number of them became
suspicious that it was a superstition, called him aside to Soriocó cacique, and wanted to
learn from him, asking the cause of this development, which I think it would make a big mistake
if the other words refer to those of that barbarous according to Father Knight said:

"- They came here (said the chief) to make their Ranchos the Borillo, people of lofty genius and
proud, that making fun of us and our customs, we had in recently. Angry us in such contempt, in
the darkest night we conjure with them, and kill all the men, women booking for our use.

"Within a short time we came upon a contagion that did such havoc, we think perish all, and
thinking it was a punishment from heaven, the penalty of that crime, we remember that Christians,
to satisfy the justice of God to shed blood disciplined the shoulders.

"Therefore, holding up aquesta cross you see here, many bitterly lashed us sometimes at the
bottom of it, asking God for mercy and forgiveness of our sins: ceased to point pestilence, so
that from that time no one died later of hits the plague, and none of the symptoms of infection
healthy, and many a night being present the people who saw him, fell from the sky a beautiful
young man with his face very bright, prostrate on the ground and adored her, and since then we have
a great reverence to this holy tree, and we embrace as soon as the faith of Jesus Christ. "So
much for the great chief.

It is not easy to explain how the holy missionary dared to lead to an end the work begun Reduction
of coupling in those towns, for instruction in the mysteries to believe, and the commandments
to be followed, seeing that God liked his designs, and blessing from
heaven with his influences.

Bye at the end of those people and straightened his trip to San Francisco Reduction Xavier,
which by January 1708, after five months at least merits for himself for work and toil tolerated
than helpful to the sky, by the conquest of so many souls came undone and consumed from the
fatigues of his apostolic ministry, to recover and breath, not in
the body, caring little, as in spirit to opening back in time, to
establish a new reduction in the countries discovered.

CHAPTER XV

Knight founded the Lucas VP Reduction of Our Lady of Conception, and is killed into the hands of
the infidels Puyzocas.

Father was ordered to Lucas, as I hinted, P. Juan visitor of those reductions Zea Baptist, to
choose a comfortable place open campaign in the midst of these settlements, different languages,
so that he could gather those people, and there be tax in civilian life, and instructed in the
divine law.

Was little to choose, for being all over the country town of very dense forests: only Tapacura
and Paunacas the valley was discovered, but for the most part was
full of holes and marshes, it was to have infinite multitude of mosquitoes
and flies by day and night causing unbearable discomfort.

However, constrained by the need, put here the Venerable Father house and gave first Reduction
to the Immaculate Conception, on the banks of a large lagoon where
people lived in many languages ??and different customs.

These were the Paunapas, UNAPs and carabids, exceedingly savage peoples,
low morale and cowards, all men and women, brutally walk naked, and
even in different languages Manacas and customs that have the same
religion of worshiping the devil in the form they manifest.

Propúsoles the holy man, with his usual energy that they leave superstitions and the mysteries
and precepts that were to believe and save to merit the favor of
God this life and eternal bliss in the other.

They were attracted by the hope of reward, and fear of punishment,
if not obeyed to the will of God, gave word, unanimous and conform,
to obey his will soon, so that only allowed them chicha, his ordinary
drink, because water caused them sharp pains in the stomach.

These people are much given to work, because they have no other God
those closest to their fields and crops, and despise a demon, and
only estimate as soon as they are persuaded While his interests.

No use going into the woods to hunt, or go to groups and only take away from their homes that
area of ??land that can last a bottle of that wine, which is the only provision and matalotaje
on the roads.

Father did not Lucas great difficulty in allowing the use of that
drink, because it caused them drunk, only reason to banish it from
the other reductions.

Roasted corn until it becomes charcoal, and then either walked or
put you to cook ground in a large boilers or payload of mud and dirty
black water that they take, is all composition of the chicha, that
they love so much they spend much of the day on toast lasting no work
in the field but from morning until noon, but although they promised
they leave their old evil superstitions, not so easily forgotten.

Father suspected Lucas some secretly do not observe this order, making and celebrating with funerals
and funeral rites and ceremonies of paganism, and to catch them red-handed, to put some spies.

Died
shortly after a woman determined to make the funeral unfaithful to his style. Made up for it
a shed or temple made of branches stuck, with the best work that
are possible, and set up between two sticks to the throne of the devil,
who visibly is to receive the offerings, to hear the prayers and to
acknowledge the sacrifices they make for the soul of the deceased.

Cinch the branches of a network, within which others do not enter the Mapon and the closest
relatives of the dead.

Celebrate these obsequies, that were not discovered in the dead of night, were already in the
best and most devoted of the function, when it suddenly became the Father Luke and staring into
that infamous shrine, saw in the midst of the darkness flash infernal enemy's eyes, that full
of majesty and terror was sitting on those two sticks, and though the servant of God is hair
stood on end with horror and trembled, intended however that, throw inside. Which, unable
to endure the devil disappeared at a time, stealing body and soul
to his priest, who never appeared, shouting that never would be more
in that place, where, against his will, was cast in shame and shame.

Rebuked the missionary zeal with burning zeal, his little faith, and
example of Mapon, brought alive by the devil into hell, did they know
clearly that their intention was nothing to lose them once the body
and soul.

Took home the closest Reduction of Manacas villages, leaving more distant located to the east,
the zeal of Father Francisco Hervás so that would lead the people San Francisco Xavier, but the
P. Hervás, with extreme pain and feeling not found another thing
and bones of dead bodies, for making those poor infidels a havoc the
fiery fatal contagion that had recently plagued the country.

Father was there Caballero certain notice of another nation with whom were always Manacas in wars and
hostilities, which will swell the heart in love and desire encendidísima to see them and bring
them to the knowledge of their Creator, especially that they were
so rude and wild like other peoples, at the expense of many jobs and
sweating was reduced to herd Christ.

Their settlements were well populated, with civil and political government,
the houses, streets and squares were well ordered, produced beautiful
feather coats, and women wove their clothes with great art, embroidered
with flowers in proportion and order.

The news fueled her desire to record that country and meet the natives,
and so, ignoring the risk of losing their lives, encouraged and exhorted
them to some of their neophytes accompany him.

Since, then, on the way, just played in the first land, a few miles distant, came out to meet
a gang of barbarians, who received him with a storm of arrows, not wanting by no means hearken
to his words, not because he lost the Father of his breath point and value, but rather, without
any fear, he was approaching them, seeing so much generosity, and
he could not be hit with any sight, the native fierceness moved elsewhere
so courteously and respect.

Samples received him with great kindness, presenting local fruits
and some shields beautifully adorned with feathers.

The house where he stayed fell into the temple, which took comfort to observe the rites and superstitions
in the burial of a deceased.

Entering the night they brought the corpse in the middle of the square,
where friends and relatives giving the last embraces, they put on
a bundle of wood, arranged in the form of pile, then you set on fire
and reduced the body to ashes, collected with endless ceremonies and
tears, placed them in a clay urn.

This view and show great fear and terror caused to the neophytes, and watching while it came
to the plaza many gangs hanging around people walking and taking posts and mouth-street well that
still and silent, they suspected that such funeral was available to them, so it is wanted
then put in safety, because it made him a servant of God such instances, it was necessary to leave before
dawn and come back with incredible pain him, because he lost hope
of reducing ill-disposed short that no nation to knowledge of Christ,
and to achieve in a short time a heavy gain souls for heaven.

Consoled, however, with the hope of reaping the harvest that next year, but even this hope it vanished
quite soon, because a band of European merchants of the profession as above said, suddenly gave
three of its ranches, where broken and made notable major havoc on all adults, up to burn
them alive at home when they wanted to surrender, destroyed completely, leading by slaves the
whole crew of children and women died that much in the way, delivered
to the work and cruelty of these barbarians winners.

Intended for all that, the Apostolic Father move on, but he found so confining people poisoned
by this most cruel massacre, treacherously contrived and concocted, who wanted revenge injury
in the lives of new Christians, for which he was obliged to retire with readiness for the innocent
not paying the penalty of the guilty, deferring the company when the weather put an offense
in oblivion and relief from both his zeal in other lands, whose inhabitants was gathering on the
new reduction, which moved to more comfortable place for the health
of catechumens, in a plain east of the band looked to the Puyzocas,
the north to the Cosiricas Cozocas and to the Western.

Here was no respite from the fatigues, placing the barbarians, with incredible patience, civil
and political traditions, teaching the observance of the precepts of God's law and instructing
them in the mysteries of faith being the continuous task of every time and of all times, and
lost to himself, attended only the good of our neighbor, so that even the necessary food to
sustain life was just day not dealt with its Christians, joyful and happy to delay the glory
of their Lord, and buying, at the expense of their sweat, the eternal bliss to those miserable
heathen, and when tired both the nature of work requested some rest, hid in the church, all absorbed
in divine things, was fired with love of God, therefore, who could not depart from his beloved well,
until unable to endure over the lean body, took that short sleep was necessary for breath and strength,
returning with more spirit and determination to cultivate those new plants. I was thinking meanwhile
the Apostolic raids that do to the Cosiricas meditated, at opening time, especially since they
sent him an embassy that was to enroll in the number of converts,
offering comfortable place to found in it a reduction.

Entered into doubt whether it would be of service to God to accept the offer of such Cosiricas
or go to the Puyzocas on that did not seem to make some decision before knowing what was the
will of God, for which, in the space of many months, with darker night gathered to pray (taking
for himself the night and giving our neighbor the day Keep your needs) to the Guardian Angels
called those nations that lit understanding with a ray of light, so that he could know for sure
what was in this business the divine blessing: and interior light or revelation was that the
will and pleasure God was to pass to the lands of Puyzocas, and to set to any risk, without
If her life, and I do not know how (because the news that those reductions
have not been expressed).

He also had announcements that the sky had already heard their pleas, and determined to comply to
his wish to sacrifice their lives for the glory of his Creator; and what were the joys your
heart and what the joys, the easier it is to think to say. But nevertheless wanted God take some
of that excess sweetness in his soul he was happily flooded, allowing the bottom to work and give
to do at the top, to be both more glorious the triumph and the palm, the victory was more difficult,
because running the veins in a cold sweat, turned pale and was represented as fierce light of death
many times did you come into question if he should run this company, and every time I thought
it shook everything, and showed signs on the outside of the inner battle, and do not know if
by their common diseases or new distemper of humours that caused them all members that match
the spirit and the flesh, I went down to the legs, wicked humor which obliged him to bed, intending,
apparently, nature, to those ends, preserve life, to whom so closely threatened death, and
in fact V. Father was large perplegidad and anguish of mind, so that he dared not resolve itself
and was a pitiable sight to see battle with himself, winning again, and leaving the other up,
always thoughtful and as impressed with this fight.

At last God turned the eyes of his mercy to V. Father, who for so long, in hunger, thirst, poverty
and many hardships, had been his most faithful servant, and penetrating the depths of soul
with a light beam, clarified that dense fog, which previously was in darkness and darkness,
and imbuing it with such courage and encouragement in the spirit,
losing the first set the meat, said with great courage:

"- That would
feel so much disgust, in spite of himself, put to work."

Are his words, and was already on the game, wrote to a comisionero
him, giving him confident of what happened and asking for her prayers,
he said:

- Quidém Promptus Spiritus est, caro autem infirm.

Finally, we set out for the Puyzocas, accompanied by thirty-six newly Manacas baptized, and
came to the first land of the nation, was received with samples great love and kindness, presenting the
fruits of the country people in great abundance and concealing so what machines: from there to
the second Rancheria, but carried in the arms others, because that through the weakness of the
body as a dam that was involved, no could have standing, here was also greeted with joy and alhagüeñas
false words the traitors have already premeditated, and having fun the chief in conversation concealing
in his bosom their damaged attempts, meanwhile ordered his people carrying strangers to their
houses, dividing them so that there would few in each, to make and shooting with more confidence.

Just
the new Christians were sitting at the table, not knowing what to
them is plotted, troops suddenly left many naked women, which threw
some black lines on their faces (ceremony that uses this nation who
want to kill) which Christians marveled much, and then fell upon them
many Indians great rage and killed, with little work, to most Christians.

Escaped,

by good fortune, for the massacre a few, which were to point to give notice to P. Knight, who,
having been only in his Rancho, all absorbed in God praying the Divine Office, and not see him
having a neophyte exposed to ravages of those barbarians put on their backs to rid his life by
flight.

It was in vain, for not wanting the traitors escape them from the hands that whom both hated
by the holy law they preach, followed and drove a arrow in the back.

Feeling mortally wounded Father asked the neophyte to leave him there,
and then nailing ground a cross, in his hands, knelt in front of her
offering the blood that poured from his own murderers, and invoking
the sweet names of Jesus and Mary, cracked and broken heavy blows
to the head of mace, gave up his spirit hands of his Creator on September
18, 1711.

The same purpose had twenty-six of his fellow neophytes who managed
to sort of give their lives in witness to the faith which had recently
begun to profess.

Libróse a boy she used to help mass, which, seeing things in bad data mounted his horse, and at
full speed could escape, and into the dense forest, where in company other neophytes who had
also fled, came just devoured Reduction Immaculate Conception, where the wounds, five died within
a few days.

Thus ended the VP Lucas during his sermon, full of many hardships, toil and hardship, with
the greatest display of love for God and neighbor, sacrificing himself to all, bring to the
knowledge of their Creator who lived in darkness and shadow of the Gentiles.

Yet it did not give satisfied the cruelty of the barbarians, so soon after, fearing that they
should come and punish his infamous betrayal of the Conception Christians,
they sent spies to observe the movements of the faithful, and found
outside a village people, an Indian killed and captured and brought
two women, which caused such terror in the Concepcion town, they all
were fleeing through the woods as if they were already enemies doors,
so it was necessary to Father Juan de Benavente beg the government
of Santa Cruz de la Sierra that he should put a brake on boldness
and ferocity of the Puyzocas.

Then came a company of brave soldiers to subdue that nation and avenge
the death of P. Knight and his holy body to carry this reduction.

The Spanish arrived there at sunset, so wanted to wait until the next day to collect the sacred
ashes.

In the darkest of night they saw, not far from where they had camped, a flame as a torch, which
is often turned on and off

.