 I spent night imagining
or dreaming disaster trips and falls. I can not convince them that God take me that way now
so different from what went before, without having to go right to a very great misfortune. I was
born with ill fortune.

- Tales, my dear, things of the imagination - said D. Benigno, draining your chocolate -. We
deliver a vacuous musings and have confidence in God.

That good and bad stars is not very Christian to say.

- Is true, but I can not avoid suspecting danger, being afraid of everything, and this misfortunes.
It is a specialty of mine. If I had not counted Primitivo many horrors .... Now with the death
of King, it will ignite a war such that Spain will be a nation of orphans and widows. Yes,
that is .... Flow rivers of blood, rivers such as water, and brothers kill brothers .... everything
has to rule whether the uncle or niece uncle niece. What dreadful nonsense! And these things
happen in meetings with people countries and nations are called!

... And this is the vaunted wisdom of men in Europe they laugh at the wild! I, ignorant woman,
I say that these scholars do not have common sense.

- Daughter of my soul - said D. Benigno - are you talking as the patriarch
of philosophy as Jean Jacques Rousseau.

Yes, the current state of nations and common sense are incompatible.

In their enthusiasm, Lamb tremolo napkin that had just detached buttonhole of his coat. That canvas
was the banner of common sense, the flag without color and heraldry.

-
I could not remove from me all night - Sola said - an idea that makes
me shudder penalty.

Who assures us that the man whom we seek, and will not be compromised
in the civil war?

Is it not likely to be firing shots in the streets? Can not happen that is already dead?

- Shut up, stupid .... A man so wise .... Do not you realize you ...?

- I do not understand anything, I feel and nothing else. The heart usually has some guesses as
weird .... Sometimes very mischievous, insists on one thing, and
God takes care after giving like .... I hope I'm wrong.

And now God commands us not just the scourge of civil war We also
sent another, this terrible disease .... Do not you hear about this
Primitivo?

It's a bad weird, for which people die within hours, sometimes in minutes, is a Amazing invisible
stab and kill, and no one is sure to live within half an hour.

-
Yes - said D. Benigno, falling in sombre sadness - is the Asiatic
cholera.

On hearing this name repulsive and scary, Sola running through his
body felt cold complacent.

Lamb felt the same.

- The disease - he said - has appeared in Spain.

People are very quiet for the street, and suddenly wham! fall to the ground and die. But this infection
does not come Madrid .... Come on, there's the car.

They heard the glad bells Peralvillo mules.

Sola said goodbye to the children crying, and promised to return soon. When boarding the car,
said:

- Slow?

- We fly - said the Hero -. Peralvillo, lead us to hurry
.... Oh! Too bad we do not have Now for those lanes of Satan here!

And
he was right. Great pity that at this critical time there were no
rails Satan!

-XVII-

On the morning of 29 and when no one suspected
that the King's death was so close, let Pipaón being single. The cute
couple were blessed with the beautiful church wedding San Cayetano,
on the corner of Bear Street and in charge of giving it was Father
Carantoña, of the Dominican order, big buddy of the bridegroom