 

Pepazo To which he replied instantly:

- Because I had empeñau in tackling the mares, and as pa columbralas
nievi served me well dimpués night fell ... pull, pull, pull, Eyas
parriba behind, turns here and saves acuyá ...

- And where are these
beasts to this? - Asked the priest.

- Sábelu God - pepazo saddened
answered the question -.

Al ayegar me to this gem, tresponierum Cumbria Eyas the other as
if the demontris yevaran ... and a galgu echil ... Squeezed blizzard,
thickening the nievi had to walk to Tablanca Muchu, had about this
Cuevona, and here I am so guapamenti mayor.

- And you've been able
to sleep? - I questioned the doctor.

- As he had no other thing ...--
JACER admired mozallón answered the question.

- But remember a damn
thing - insisted Neluco - the fright you gave to your family and all
the people ...

He shrugged his shoulders questioned, as it then fell
for the first time.

The notice, said Don Sabas decomposing a bit:

- And if we had all been so kestrels like you, what would become of you, if not today, tomorrow,
when you hunger and cold rush?

Another response shrug, as if no such signal had crossed the core idea of ??pepazo.

Finally, there was this man into channel ... not much time to lose
so they went outsiders in the Cuevona, work very easy, because it
had already reached the half a yard of snow mouth, rested and ate
all by the voracity of pepazo line, without which provisions have
not attained to himself, and as the sky was blackened bad part, after
a little rest they all left the cave ready against the march, and
undertook a good walk down the hill.

At first everything went well, and until you buzz abounded, hints and ironies untapped to pepazo,
who was not aware of most of them by natural clumsiness of his his
head.

" Whistle Salces atrocities are unleashed against him, and, above all, against Toper, who opened
the door as it closed at a man as smart as one that he (Chorcos)
knew of "equal than with himself, "and that while nothing was said
for certain languages, was the one who planted the jito in the heart
of Tanasi.
