 He left hurriedly to go where we know. While Rosalie was not claimed that Amparito at home,
he might be back now. Maybe the neighbors knew the whereabouts of the two sisters. Forward, noble
heart, and fear not.

Knight came later, and by the nuns, the Postigo, Hita Street, the alley Dog, etc ... went to
the streets of the Star. It is easy to assume that was a humorous thousand demons and did not
know to choose between doubt and certainty of his misfortune.

That such Doña Marcelina, what breed of bird would be?

This is thought to climb the ladder of the house that, older than speak evil. Called, and a
maid told the lady had not come yet, but that does not take even five minutes. We went to the
room, and when a lady was waiting there presentósele very singular
appearance, white, fine, clean and airy, an elderly woman who looked
like a kitten with two emeralds for eyes, and walked with feet of
wool without the steps you feel.

"Sir - you said that looking at him sweetly human relic - are you
by chance del Toboso?

".

- No, ma'am - he said - and I am not of Toboso of La Mancha.

- Ah, excuse me ...

And slipped away, looking askance at the light spots of mud that the
visitor had left on the mat.

Augustine noticed the room, which contained about seven comfortably
and other furniture anticuadísimos, but very well preserved, four
crucifixes, two children and work of Jesus four dozen films saints,
with branches of evergreens, bows and ribbons.

There soon came a semblance of mahogany carving behind a black veil.

"Are you Mr. Knight?".

- At your service ... I wanted ...

Doña Marcelina Augustine was passed immediately to a cabinet. After seeing the room seemed
that there was no more comfortable in the world.

However, in that cabinet had three. A brazier was very hot fire to the abandoned piece. The
visitor and sat on Pole armchairs.

"Did you see what day?" - Said the lady, lifting her veil and publishing the bas-relief of your
face, Christian had not understood it.

- Yes, ma'am, very bad day ... Then I come to beg you to kindly give
me news ...

- I know, I know - replied sternly Polo -.

Can I ask you reports, background that unhappy? If you will permit me, I will keep the greatest
secrecy, it is not in my early carry this story and deal with actions of others. I, though
I be wrong to say it, no I usually hurt even my worst enemies ... It is no praise, but many
who I have hated me full of benefits ...

- In the present case - Caballero said eagerly - you can make an exception for me, telling me ...

-
High there - the austere lady interrupted.

I do not count anything, I know nothing, I have not seen nothing, absolutely nothing. What
someone comes and tells me that Amparo is a saint? I quiet. What you come and tell me that he
wants to marry her? I quiet. Shut up and shut up is my subject. Today I got to God, and if he
had enough strength to keep to my guns, this just give to me.

- But sir, for the love of God - Augustine said, to the fullest confession -. The truth is before
everything.

- Just some truths are not for those ... Do not ask me anything ... my mouth is a snap ... Only I
tell you, and this not because you might be interested, but my own satisfaction, that my brother
was saved, my brother is already on its way to Marseille where released
within three days for the Philippines, my brother has a bad back,
and there in those wild lands of my brother will come to herself.
Do you know where is the island of Zamboanga? Because I have told
you, it also comes Carib land. For there, in that blissful Zamboanga
my brother landed within two months, and there will the opportunity
to christen heretics and make great achievements. This is not to say
that I absolutely trust in your salvation, since the goat as its spots,
the vicious strip ever ... to the shooting. Oh, what efforts we had
to make last minute! Had you seen ...! What hombrazo! At the station
told us that there will be a cassock Nebuchadnezzar