 Here nobody cares preferably with the political situation the nation:
the main issue is personal freedom, in harmony with the interest of the district. Work is the only
way to be the man who understands the Basque. He has such an addiction his freedom, his staff of
race, nation and individual, which retains its own language in spite of everything. Like the catalan
is entrepreneurial, cosmopolitan, if necessary. Whenever he looks jealous to preserve and exercise
their initiative in every work of social activity. Patient and tenacious, half-hearted, likes
to lock himself in his individuality to make things with aplomb - which does not prevent him
always served the association for all that is required collective strength and power, or a beneficent
action.

The natural consequences of all these characteristic features are noticed in the social condition loa
four different groups that make up the continental Spain. Without ignoring some exceptions purely local,
or that manifest in better-educated classes, the general rules are
no less justified, and can be summarized as follows:

In the Spain
that was radically changed by the Arabs or Moors, is met almost all
Spanish society which has produced most beautiful, big, rich and sublime
on fine arts.

There is no inch of usable land that is not subject to cultivation. The show much skill manufacturing
jobs and happy inspiration. The Art of the irrigation is generally known and practiced skill
dog. Where land ownership is not something divided (and this is rare), supplemented with the
population of movable property, whether in agriculture, the livestock industry, small manufacturing,
etc., so that the mass is prolatarios While relatively small. The trend to the possession of something
very general, and with it instincts and habits of independence. Populations are little or no superstitious.
The begging exists only in very small scale, and that, reduced to the major cities in no case
comes from the instincts of the Arab race, but of economic causes and ancient monastic traditions.
There is no true welfare of the masses, as far as possible in the present state of society.
Liberalism is great in all populations. The economic movement is very active in all branches
of production. People love neatness and elegance. In a word, Moorish Spain, with a much smaller
territory to half of Gothic Spain, and a population equal to 66 percent of it, is at least four
times higher in social movement, wealth, welfare and civilization.

On the contrary, the Gothic Spain, covering more than half of the territory and population continental,
and contains so vast fertile plains and alti-plains in inaction vegeta and poverty (with rare
exceptions) is pleased to isolation, with no interest in communications;
tolerate dirt everywhere and neglect, is literally full of beggars,
keeping begging as an institution, has an amazing profusion of ancient
churches and convents; look with disdain the beauties of vegetation,
and is extremely backward in the art of agriculture and manufacturing.

There (quite the opposite of the other parts of Spain) the fields are deserts, and the population
is concentrated in cities and villages, where persistently keeps habits of laziness, prudery and begging.
The clergy (without noticeable influence, or nearly mule in politics and social education in the other groups)
is very central Spain still powerful to resist the damage or progress, because it can easily influence
on idle mobs clustered in localities. The customs of the clergy are not austere, or thing it seems,
does not take any interest in popular instruction, and mixed in committed policy whenever it sees its
own interests. In general it is greedy, and their primary care is to ensure good income.

Life within that part of Spanish society ew monotonous and sad. The appearance of the people is
always gloomy, owing to his clothes, a yellowish-brown ink on general. The buildings lack the
grace, and elegance of simplicity and seduction of the picturesque. The people divided only their
attention, in entertainment, between the church and the bull ring, ie, two mysticism - that
of the traditional faith and danger. In conclusion, the old Spain (with the exception of the
ports of the Cantabrian coast, the city Madrid and Valladolid in part) is deeply backward
and stagnant at all.

And worse is that even still has the notion of progress, because they support or even understand
enough railways and other elements of communication.

Although the provinces are actually small republics, by the nature of its institutions and special
ways, and thus form a relatively superior to that of Catalonia the two are so homogeneous
in their general features, which can be understood in a common appreciation. It is in these two
sections where the people have always shown greater respect and more tenacious in the defense
and preservation of its rights or municipal liberties, what which in ancient times gave as examples
the Aragonese nobles, the most liberal fraction and the strongest
personality among those that make up the second group.

Provinces in Catalonia and all progress is accepted with enthusiasm and perseverance by populations.

In
them there is no begging, beggars found in some Catalan towns come almost all of Aragon, where
down to exploit the industrious and commercial spaces. In the two groups that are major centers
to Barcelona and Bilbao, intolerance Castilian, which repels the foreign and new, has no place.
On the contrary, overseas is welcomed there with pleasure, and all
involved new progress in civilization is the most cordial hospitality.

Municipal liberties and individualism have been fruitful to these people industrious, thoughtful
throughout, zealous to uphold the law, integrity and severe in meeting
any commitments.

In no part of the peninsula is so deep as there the feeling of personality (forgive me to repeat
it), and HOWEVER, is there which presents more powerful the spirit of partnership. This proves
that there is no antagonism natural between the individual and collective, and that man when
he is personally free always seeking the support of the other individual strengths, because it
is a social being, and makes collective things much better than the socialist powers seeking to
absorb the initiative individuals on behalf of the common law.

Provinces in Catalonia and the democratic sentiment runs deep. There is the proletarian a man and
a citizen, he lives the work and is aware that work is given in society a supreme title which
entitles to the consideration and independence. These Both towns are the only ones who are left to
absorb the proposed unity of the nation Spanish, looking unit that rests on truly liberal institutions,
popular and national. The Catalan and Basque keep their language, literature, traditions peculiar
freedoms and shall be considered as separate peoples. They summarize what is more prosperous and
strong, the most prolific and distinguished in the political, social
and economic of Spain, and there is no exaggeration to say that just
as England Catalonia is Spanish, Provinces are the French mainland.

There are missing religious fanaticism, the taste for monopoly (although the Catalans are
protectionist by reason of its factories), and the veneration sable or militarism. The day that
these people are founding of the Republic, the change would be insensitive to the social and
economic scarcely would be an upward movement political. It is within these people which is the
true seed of democracy Spanish.

The result of the previous comparison is obvious, embracing the whole nation Spanish. It consists
of several villages, formed by crossing more or less intense of different races, and the various
activities of the institutions that have governed. Where want to counter that has reigned without
any absolute power socialism, social life has stalled. Torquemada where Philip II and have
left the deepest traces of their passage, the field has become sterile or not has been rough but thorns
and weeds. Where convents and the clergy have dominated more strongly, begging has become
endemic, idleness great, gross superstitions, deep love of isolation, to the routine, the neglect
and uncleanliness. Where charters have missed the former (ie, freedoms or guarantees), industry,
agriculture and trade have remained steady, after The retrogradation
hauled by the expulsion of the Moors and Jews.

Wherever you see the bad fruits of an education vicious and corrupting. On domestic morality of
central Spain is not an effect but the old Castilian pride and social isolation and in no way
the result of institutions above, who have made every effort to corrupt the people.

On the contrary, where the blood had been inoculated and customs of a people liberal, of spiritual
religion, equalizing and fraternal, and lover of nature (the Arab people or moro), is considerable
prosperity. Where there was no fighting or duality of religions there is more tolerance, less fanatical,
but alive instincts of liberty and fraternity the clergy have been less eager for wealth and
power. Where traditions have taken root economic freedom (that was the secret of the agricultural wonders,
artists and industrialists of the Moors), activity is visible, prosperity satisfactory, in spite of
the dismal action of regulatory laws and prohibitive. In the villages (the Basques) where no
no monopolies, no soldiers, no bans or acquiring authority, or indirect taxes ruinous, no police
Inquisition, oppressive centralization, everything is spontaneous and virile all prosper, peace reigns,
the customs are pure, sweet and peaceful, the ball game almost replaced
the bloody bulls games, the game does not exist as passion and speculation,
real property is very divided, life is free, easy and cheap elementary
instruction is rather widespread, advanced civilization in every way,
the population is much more condensed.

Catalonia, although much less independent of central government, the situation resembles to the
provinces, and is conspicuous by its industry and wealth, precisely because it has been less
exposed to the baneful influence of socialism despotic, brutal and corrosive opened by Carlos
V and Felipe II, socialism whose formulas were: the accusation, leveling in obedience passive, the
convent, the unity of religion, isolation, Spanish, prohibition, regulation of life, in short,
the complete suppression of individuality.

Such are the lessons to provide the present and the past of Spain, comparing the situation four
social groups most characteristic. What is that justice may portend about the future of that
nation? To answer this question it is necessary to summarize the general features offered throughout
Spain, for its constitution, its government, its parties, social character, their education, their
ideas, their economic life, its literature and aspirations.

The Spanish Constitution is the image of the situation of the people whom he governs. They all
coexist by halves, without a well defined character. It is a traditional monarchy or legitimacy
half divine right, half-roots, so that neither the aristocracy nor absolutism nor democracy
have authority or power or prestige, if not to hinder and damage each other. Parliamentary forms
and the apparent origin, but to the government obeys the courtesans influences to those of the opinion.
Very restricted circle of voters and powerful means of corruption,
voting is always the power, with no example of a ministry loses the
election.

The parties, disoriented by lack of and operating principles in all cases the situations are exploited
to turn the power nation without any thing to win ministerial fluctuations. Little more or
less all governing parties by the same means: force, repression, intrigue, corruption of conscience.
Strange! the bulk of the Spanish people hate the government sable and wish the downfall of
militarism, and all ministries HOWEVER rely on on the bayonets.

Spain's mainstream institutions seem to have been calculated to counteract any tendency progress.
In vain the Constitution established the legal equality, if the law restricts imports and all
changes, pregnant traffic, regulate many industries make it extremely difficult for youth access
to the professions, and subject to dire hindrance the best companies. A single example, for a
very subordinate interest, simply in order to understand how disastrous are the effects of restrictive
regulatory regime that prevails in most of Spain. Shortly before my arrival at Madrid, the government
had wanted to befriend the porters, whose service is regulated. To this end set a rate that
was in the service of every waiter the price of four reales for a trip or diligence within the
city be so forbidden to all charge more or less for their work. This, no doubt, in deference
to the porters and the public. A few days after the reform, the porters were quejosísimos the government
because they did not win anything. The reason was simple. Earlier, arranging freely with individuals
and making competition, winning six, eight or ten reales per day, at very low prices because
they made many commitments or services. But with the high tariff, the public has ceased to occupy,
and triple or quadruple the price of very rare commissions were not
compensated for the losses in the number of operations.

Spain is a country that abounds in paper mills, although the product is usually defective. Economic
protection prohibits the importation of foreign paper, forcing the Spanish to serve their own. What
is the result? The thought that has suffered famine in 1859-60 proves that the prohibition only
serves to give a privilege to manufacture and maintain national stationary. For many months
have not been printing paper for their publications, impotence of the privileged. In Spain,
classic wheat and all kinds of cereals, often seen the strange phenomenon of a grain shortage
that threatens to produce hunger! Why? Because people do not have the freedom to import grain
when the crops are scarce by lack of rain. Spain (it is worth repeating) is one of the countries
of Europe where snuff smokes worse (if not contraband), - and it belongs in the production monopoly
of Cuba, Puerto-Rico and Manila!

Prohibitive and protective tariffs, and therefore very high and over-regulation, make it difficult
and relatively small trade of a State as large as that. What is the result? The corruption of
officials of customs service, and smuggling huge and shocking, sadly
respond.

Spanish treasure lost by what goes underground to the whole country (mainly Gibraltar, Portugal and
the Pyrenees) three times matter what a strong reduction in rates. But it remains a fatal, a
spirit of routine and deep backlog of statesmen in the knowledge of social economy.

Studied with attention and without warning to the Spanish people, is that he has many features
outstanding qualities, and many very serious shortcomings of education. All that is good comes from
nature, which provided him with admirably, like everything what is wrong is the result of deeply
corrupting institutions. It is a town loyal, honest, hospitable, very sober and frugal, patient,
courageous, capable of all prowess and all the efforts of a great race. But it lacks, in general,
the spirit initiative, spontaneity, - because the bad governments have become accustomed to the
sedentary life, inertia and routine at all.

There are many things vicious, hateful, that the Spanish people love, not by inclination but by
habit. The game, bullfights, cockfights, etc.., There are because the government encourages
and exploits with lotteries, circus officials, taxes, etc. The Spanish literally live among the vines,
and consume very little wine. If the laws had intemperance exploited as a prosecutor, is sure to abound
as drunks players and beggars. And convents and tax laws have created the begging oppressive
regulations have established official corruption and maintained an administration incapable consuming
and convoluted.

Spanish society is amazingly smart, and great talents born where want. I have not seen any
kind in Spain that resembles nothing to the peasants of France (The Central and the Pyrenees
in particular), whose stupidity is only comparable to that of the Indians of the alti-Andean
plains. But of what use are clear that intelligence, that good and that penetration shrewd sense
that distinguish the Spanish people? The vicious public education the thousands of occupational
barriers, the brutal oppression weighing on the media, and intolerance religion (abject for
the Roman Court) annulled the intellectual advantages that nature granted to the Spanish. Thus
the great mass of people are profoundly ignorant, in general; the middle class is at the height
of his legal position, not well understood his role in a constitutional monarchy, the nobility is
ignorant and superficial in their great majority, the clergy is unable to fill their high ministry
in a manner worthy of the current civilization, and youth, gagged in the field of the press, and public
forum and overwhelmed by the organization privileged to have the liberal professions, is condemned
to the vague and nebulous controversies and speculations of German philosophy, political economy
purely theoretical brochures and literature, and translations futilities petty and bad taste.

The Spanish people are one of those in the Old World are more deeply rooted feeling Personality
and equality. Without that, he would have died long ago, smothered despotism. This is a quality
that resists all, because it is in the blood and supports in topography, climate, even in the
traditions of the language. Therefore, Spain is one of the best elements of democracy in Europe.
Spain will be republican and democratic deveras long before France, Germany, England and other
great nations of Europe.

But today is a people coarse, rough education, whose polish will not come until after the whole society
has entered into a broad way of freedom of movement and progress. The language is very rough
on all classes of society. Too earnest and free, replaces the subtleties of satire or persuasive
style with the brutal eloquence of obscene interjections. In addition, the Spanish suffer from
certain shortcomings that neutralize much of its fine qualities. Their nationality or social arrogance,
which is not going on to lag behind that of the Portuguese, obfuscate them so that, taking
them to the sterile quixotic and the most ridiculous exaggerations, do not let them recognize
the backwardness of their country.

They believe the first people in the world, in any and every situation, despite their weakness, ignorance,
habits of filth, homelessness and employment-mania, and its deplorable indifference to the
common interests which is the best coat of bad governments.

That will not happen but to under friction with other nations. Freedom will have many miracles
in Spain.

But if there's civilization is far behind on other European societies, there to think about
why Spain does not progress. Four centuries of tyranny, intolerance and errors unheard, have
left behind them a people who, if he had been ruled as England from 1688, today would be the
first people in the world. Despite that, the Spain of today is very distant greatly from that of
1825, visible progress, and in just five years after the passing quasi-revolution of 1854, has
made great strides.

Perhaps will say: "If the majority of Spanish people have such good character traits, Why is let evil
rule and does not change your situation? "The explanation is simple. Is that in Spain there has
been so far, no revolution, but simply struggle: that of independence
first, and then civil strife.

Germany had a grand revolution with religious reform; England two of the seventeenth century, France's
philosophy and 1789.

But Spain has not experienced anything similar. Struggles passing situations change apparent
and the characters change something: the great revolutions are just ideas peoples. Spanish
has the instincts of democracy and progress, but lacks subsequent convictions, the ideas are
translated later in institutions. Napoleon unfriendly made in Spain with the invasion, the ideas
of the French Revolution.

They come by one of two ways: either liberal reform, honest and determined, initiated by the Government,
which is what has the strength, - or the revolution. Touch the men of State anticipate, if they want
to avert the democratic revolution, preventing it to peaceful reform. The day that one or the
other is carried out, Spain is a great and glorious nationality, first order in the game of
civilization!

NOTES:

[1] Later Paris was enlarged, extending to the circular line of fortifications.

[2] The cathedral, built on the same site of a dating from the late sixth century, was begun
by King Ferdinand III in the year 1227 and completed in its main mass in 1493. Castilian has
404 feet long, 204 high latitude and 116 in the nave. Several of the side chapels are subsequent to
1493.

[3] Throughout the country may well fit 500.000 souls.

[4] exceeds one million annually arrobas worth $ 6,000,000.

[5] is known to have the same origin as the Breton language in France
and the Wales in England.

[6] Note well that in these tables also maintain the subdivision of historical groups, corresponding
to the former classification of the country, viz: Kingdoms of Valencia
and Murcia - Andalucia - Nueva Castilla - Extremadura - Leon - Galicia
- Old Castilla - Aragon - Catalonia, Navarra and Provinces.

[7] Province Oviedo.

[8] I remember that when considering only the three Basque provinces, the proportion is 68
inhabitants per square kilometer, density remarkable.

FIN.

   NOTABLE ERRATA. (They are now correcting)
   
   Dice Line page. Read.
   
   June 1 bitter bitter "17 and coral and coral, June 27
  and souvenirs and memories, July 17 and embroidered
   and bordered by August 10 is to the industry, is
  at the first, 18 13 boars the peccary "26 for fish,
  fishermen, 1925 to 1926 found 20-ramos-sections found
  48 38 and the strength and force 54 8 whole globe! the entire globe