 But how?

After much thought, after trying in vain unwrinkle the newspaper with his hands, took him to the
kitchen and straightened with a hot iron, leaving it to his brother after find him without seeing
him Tirso. When evening came Pepe Millan, who used to eat there on Sunday, leaving much of the
night with Don Jose, for being near Leocadia. Presentation made him the father of his eldest son
happily ate all desktop and talked about politics, the only conversation I had the privilege
of diverting the poor old man, who was every moment means to relate the events of that time with
those of his youth, drawing comparisons between men and different times.

Pepe had begun to read Spanish La Libertad, which asked Leocadia and she brought without a single
wrinkle, to the surprise of Tirso, but this remained silent, willing to listen Miller that,
looking from time to time to the girl, holding a dialogue with Don
José.

Said old:

- Here are not only clumsy, if the liberal party is divided, we will see things sad.

- Already we are seeing. Does it seem to you little development left to take to war?

- If what you have done now for 69 Prim! ... Of course, sooner or later, will to do: with no progress
Conventions anything. I remember that when the de Vergara, who were actually lost us after
the Liberal Party said the crown the Queen, he was treated like a black-Espartero cornered him
at once, to official Carlist favored them much, they said we were
all brothers, and ours, which winter had beaten in denim pants ...
went to the Philippines or as Fernando Poo looked suspicious.

- That
and similar things so many Republicans in the new generation, because
we convinced that there is no alternative.

- That is very dangerous:
people are not ready.

- And since no one teaches anything, does he
have to learn at their own expense.

- Is that today there is no civic
virtues.

If you had known Mendizabal, then to Olózaga, now so fallen ...: it was he who called progressives
who said before exalted.

It has always been more liberal enthusiasm now.

If you only saw what indignation 40 year unfolded against Toreno
and Martinez de la Rosa, requested the extension because of half tithe,
and even the whole tithe and the scoop!

Well they would not approve Espartero the famous Councils Act!

- Enthusiasm sterile, and have often been drowned in blood.

- In that you are right. Was condemned to death for anything. Since the execution of Manzanares
sixty partners and twenty of Alicante, May 8, until the Sergeants
June 22, has last year without any such brutality, except to Zurbano,
and the death of Mariana de Pineda, for whom it was necessary to make
a new club, because my neck was very skinny ...

- In spite of this
- broke Pepe - there are those who look favorably upon the Restoration
and who fights for Don Carlos.

If Spain are monarchists, and especially Bourbon is because nobody
reads contemporary history.

- Finally, my children, you know that
I have a good memory: well, since December 43 to Christmas Eve of
44, two hundred and fourteen people were shot, most by liberals.

-
Have you right, Don Jose, and paid the crown to the Liberal Party,
first by the father and then the daughter, had made so many sacrifices
...

- Well if you do have family holy spirit - Pepe said - we were
without a drop of blood.

Upon hearing this joke wicked Tirso could not take it anymore. Praise Mendizabal, the reference
to tithing and the scoop, the horror of the executions of revolutionaries, the liberal spirit throbbing
in the conversation, made him harm, but to exploit what a grace the
third person of the Holy Trinity, set the height to their outrage.

Then, rising from his seat, approached the group formed by Pepe and Miller with Don José and,
as before the balcony, on which stood clear opening its slender black figure and said sternly:

-
It seems incredible that men talk and opinion!

Miller stopped in deference to his friend, and Don Jose because he
repented of having said such things, leaving room for the wrath of
Tirso: Pepe, more passionate, he faced it, and while talking moderately,
he said:

- It is natural to have sympathy for the reactionary parties,
are those that protect you; but do you deny that we can not look good
for the Church?

Always, and renege on their origin, has been the enemy of freedom and democracy.

- Freedom! Freedom! What for? " And what is democracy? allowing them to send crooks. Democracy!
How many pounds of potatoes are bought with that?

- No! freedom
is what Christ commanded you to preach democracy is that which hath
allowed you, clerics and monks, born among the most humble, climbing
posts highest in the world.

- For Mendizabal was a thief.

- That
is a nonsense that has nothing to do with what we say.

And look, do not fret; but what I like Mendizabal, is for being who has done more harm to the
Church.

- Hush, my children, hush! - Shouted Don José: - Are you going to fight now? I will not say much, but
Mendizabal was a great man. Take care if you have had merit a fifth of the 100,000 men!

Tirso made futile efforts to hide his disgust.

In vain to calm those affected hear things. His displeasure was not grief, but anger, seeing
that he was wrong when, shortly set foot in the house, he imagined that there was no devotion
or belief.

His father was a progressive ridiculous that Espartero excited talking, and his brother a demagogue
atheist, of which make a mockery of God and Divine Providence, his
mother a poor lady, whom he imagined to be a saint because he was
industrious, and a little girl presumed Leocadia, who spent the morning
embandolinándose hair.

There was no mass, or fasting, or praying; there was no bull, ate meat on Fridays and father tolerated
Pepe wicked jokes.

Was to vent their anger about violence in apostrophes, of which so often heard the gentlemen
who frequented the house of Mr. Thaddeus, but just looked at her brother pity, saying:

- You seem like Jews!

No greater insult conceived.

The women looked at the last words of dialogue, said gruffly, surprising
the news that there Wheels by political matters, Miller went to stand
beside Leocadia; Don Jose was silent, trying to find means of changing
the conversation, stood Tirso to the balcony, as challenging them
to all and ready to resume the dispute.

His figure was arrogant, more like soldiers ready to fight, that man eager to convince After a while,
as a champion who has waited in vain for his adversary, left the room quietly. Pepe and Miller
went for a walk through the streets.

In the portal, that he asked, referring to the last scene:

- Have you heard?

- You are going to have much trouble.

- Would you believe that this is the time we do not know why you came?

- Was he in town Carlist relationships with people?

- Why do you
ask?

- Be careful ... lest there come with some commission.

Now stir a lot.

Let's see if you give the police a scare. To print your father would be a disaster.

* * * * *

The next afternoon went to the home a very respectable-looking gentleman, asking by Tirso.
Leocadia accompanied him to the kitchen and told her brother, but he barely heard the name of the
newcomer, he was carried to his room and remained locked up with long time him. The visit was
long, and fired Tirso unknown with a great show of respect.

Since that interview, the priest went out almost every night, but
said or where ever he went.

XIV

       Often both at that time the priests who escaped from their parishes,
then appeared as leaders in the field or were caught in the cities
serving as assistants and messengers near the fractious party together,
that there was nothing absurd suspicion Millán: justificábala also
Tirso's commitment to remain silent for the purpose of your trip.

Could not they have become fanaticism that man in his instrument the same people that made him
cleric backs of their parents? The probability that in the present when you least expect it
police in the house looking for his brother, Pepe scared, fearful of the impression that such
release could cause in the mind of poor old man.

Regarding to give room for disappointment Tirso otherwise, for the proposed conversion of the
family or take campaign to raise their religious fervor, nothing
suspicious: was once feared, according to the character that the priest
showed, some feature of intolerance, excessive heat or harsh sentence
to disturb the tranquility of home, because false circumspection watched
Tirso hearing news of the war comment resembled the sly.

From the day of the dispute that thief called Mendizabal, turned a blind eye with respect to religious
indifference that surrounded him, but clearly felt that it was not all prudence, but lack
of courage. Pepe, anxious not to fuel the irritability of his brother, abstained wicked jokes
and mocking phrases, but sometimes he came to his lips, hearing deploy more naively rooted superstition
so that both began to pretend certain restraint, despite that Pepe knew that the situation was not
for long and the slightest thing to Tirso provide an opportunity to show their anger would be
enough to trigger a storm. For its part, the priest was convinced that he had come to be among
parents and siblings as tree suddenly transplanted to other land of his birth. Difficult was
that he could take root there or live in peace with their own. If they were lukewarm in their devotion
or just slow to meet the religious practices still have choice, but it was not people whose
heart had cushioned the faith, but of individuals who, judging by what Tirso seen, not felt before.
The father had no beliefs, perhaps a result of sympathy progressive
party that lied always respect for religion, not hide unwillingness
of the clergy Leocadia and doña Manuela women were misdirected, or
rather, neglected.

As for Pepe, their unbelief, their absence of all divine and sacred were more serious, because
the fruit, not forgetting the holy truths, but a deep contempt for them: he pushed the disbelief currents
of the time, studies modern courtly atmosphere and a definite predisposition. In this he was right
Tirso: parents and sister gave their comments as they really were: indifferent Pepe, as an unrepentant
confident with whom the struggle had to be more laborious, because the fight was inevitable.
He did not come home with the intention to provoke, but neither seemed unreasonable under his
ministry to look into that state of deep calm disturbance made him break out in a moment of
anger, "you seem to Jews." His enthusiasm was sincere religious: conscience told him that
if the hazards of life he had placed next to strangers, empecatadas as their parents and siblings,
would have dogged efforts to convert them, and that bad could look coldly destruction of his own
vineyard. When solved your trip to the court, not imagine having to devote to this work: some
were his purposes and he only knew; but since Providence showed him the weeds in its path, was
starting, but to step outside without being distracted from its main object. Duty along the
pleasant and painful save her parents and siblings of eternal damnation! Some read books analog devotees
but not so big. This saint became a spouse, another to his father, one to his brother: he
was dealing with his family, which never before thought, which lived paragraph voluntarily,
but suddenly it seemed scattered flock to the edge of a deep, and which was to be guided to pick
in the fold of the Church blessed. Brought him to cut the company to serve higher, because
it is the entire nation and not a few individuals, but since God put the sore at your hands and
the wound was as in the same body just was to heal her.

It began to worsen in the parent's illness, it took higher expenses came sad day for the family
and Dona Manuela greatly dismayed, for all of which determined Tirso start fulfilling its purpose,
imagining that in the midst of trouble is when most easily overwhelm our hearts. His mother and
sister were the first who attract thought. Not reach more sagacity, and even this will greatly disgusted,
as all delay seemed to her complicity in evil and all pretense seemed unworthy of the noble straightened
so that the will. It was fiery, Arriscado, but guessing at his brother a terrible opponent, he
realized that the circumstances put obstacles to his zeal. Would have preferred to fight face
to face obstacles, suddenly gather family and convince them of their error; but did not venture
much and, against his will, as there could be violent, it was clever: dreamed of playing the
role of apostle is combative, and had to be limited to acting as a Jesuit novel, but in good faith,
with a clear intention, make sure the mood in a company honest.

Determined to eradicate the wickedness which had dominion over his home, he would not delay
it, and one morning, and finds that Dona Manuela was unfolding the shawl to go shopping some
medications, anticipated it and waited in a corner next: then he followed Imperial down the street,
and when he would enter a drug store in the Toledo, called closely:

- Mother, Mother!

- Son, how are you doing here?

- I want to talk with you Do you have to wait in the pharmacy?

- A little bit.

- Well, let us first by drugs, then we will wait together, and I'll tell you what I want.

Tirso severe spoke with an accent, his mother heard him with a curiosity mixed with fear.

- But man, what is it? Is something wrong at home?

- No: if I left I was almost at the same time as you! Nothing happens, but I want to talk.

Dona Manuela entered in the pharmacy, esperola him outside, and just
saw her leave, continued to Thus, while she obediently followed him:

-
Let's go there next, the portico of San Isidro .-- And they went up
the stairs of the church.

- Look at you, mother, I will not shut
up: I disgustadísimo.

Since I have arrived in Madrid a heart full of sadness ...

- I understand,
son, our situation is not without reason.

If you saw the bay ever!

... And what's left! ...

- There's nothing like that.

- I do not understand you.

- Now you understand me My duty was to tell my father that I will tell you, but I think that
you will understand me better, also his character and state ... Later
I'll see what I have to do.

- Character, you say?

If the poor are not upset or annoyed anyone ever! ...

- Maybe that goodness we have much to mourn.

- Explain, by God, my
son!

- Yes, mother, much to mourn and to feel.

Well, Clarita, at home no religion, and where takes religion all is lost. So God punished you.

- God punish!

- I seem to you a few sentences that disease, the scarcity of such suffering! ...

- And what did we do?

We all work. Have not you seen the life they lead your brothers and
what I labors?

- Ask what you can do!

It seems impossible! It is impossible for God to help you.

Vainly sought to provide sweetness to his phrases, the extraordinary
vividness of an accused eyes strong resolution.

- No, mother, do
not expect you relief or protection.

At home there is no religion, no praying, no practice a single devotion
... Da creeps thinking.

For almost a month since I'm in Madrid I have seen many sad things!

Not a prayer, nor an act of mercy! I understand that father not go to church, although it may
well replace it with some acts of devotion and penance; But what
about you?

Leocadia what? What about Pepe? You live as heretics!

I confess, mother, I doubted much before taking this step, but my duty is first and foremost.
Do not you feel afraid ... shame to live well?

- And what do you
want?

I do not control ... I take care of the house ... and nothing more: cleaning ... work and more
work ... I do not know!

- Clean and working! With that you think has been accomplished! When the Lord takes this world,
that will ... unfortunately, is save you to have had the house neat? The house clean and the
black soul by sin! All neatly for oneself, all work for the same, and not a visit to the house
of God, not a thought for Mother Divine!

Da anger to see him!

Doña Manuela heard in silence, overwhelmed with this unexpected disappointment, that even for low
intelligence was a sign of bigger ones. The vehemence of Tirso became exacerbated therefore
the poor old woman could not help but say, almost angrily:

- Son, no slapping, people see us!

He was already possessed of his role, and would not listen.

- There is no son!

There is but one priest who had seen the foul leprosy of atheism and wants to heal. Did you
hear, mother? If you do not help me, I will just ... I will try alone, and if I can not do,
I'll tell you all face to face, shake at the door the dust off my shoes, like the patriarchs
of Israel as they left the house of the wicked, and you will not see me ever again.

- And the scandal and disgust your father will die.

- What more death than we have up? The heart closed to pity ... If you simply enter there to
be convinced! ... Pictures of prisoners liberals on the walls, newspapers perverse those selling
in the streets, carrying noveluchas comedies of the press that Miller and that you allow to read
Leocadia, bad books ... and throughout the house there is an image
of the Virgin or a wooden cross ...

- I do not control ...

- Well,
you have to send the absence of a father, and we as missing, you are
the should govern: I'll help ... and choose you, mother to remedy
the evil, or let the remedy myself, against my father, against Pepe,
against all.

- No, son of my soul, my God, why not, Pepe did not
talk about these things!

- Ah!

Do you have fear?

I have not.

They spoke quietly, alone in a corner of the churchyard, while looking
at them curiously a woman on the steps of selling prints, framed faces
of God tin, groundnuts, hawthorn and torrao.

Tirso intimidating gestures gesticulating with his mother broken-she,
and eager to cut the dialogue, looked alternately at the floor and
onto the sidewalk opposite where was the pharmacy.

The charges of impiety did not at first impressive; Tirso but when
presented as the cause of the evils suffered and promise of eternal
punishment, womanly weakness gave the thrust of the believer.

What set her worst, was the threat of would talk to Pepe.

They kept silent for a moment: he, doubtful of the success of your business, she, embarrassed,
anxious to escape the violent influence of his son, to subdue it better, just say it: "I am but a
priest."

- Are we going to the pharmacy? - Finally dared to ask the mother.

- Wait for you, do not want us to separate well. You have to promise before the rescue. Will it
work You with me so that we are all Christians, and I understand I with Pepe and my father? Can
you imagine you live holy by not doing harm to others?

What blindness! What about yourself? What about your salvation?

Pray you, mother, this is the first, and God's light and remove them from your soul that apathy come
You to church, and little to awaken the good feelings, you will stop laughing antics sacrilegious
my brother, you shall burn with desire for help. Did you promise?

- Yes, my son - said embarrassed - but Pepe did not tell any of this.

- As I understand it is him who is to blame for what happens!

We agreed that you are mine, ie God, otherwise I will leave for good, after declaring openly
to all I do not want to live among Jews.

Slowly descended the stairs of the court, Tirso waited at the door of the shop and saw leaving
his mother with a bottle in his hand, said:

- Both care, such request to seek remedy for the ills of the body
that do not matter nothing and no one thought to the health of the
soul!

Remember what you just mentioned.

Then he left her, leaving her confused and frightened, a woman who's just been amazing committing
a crime. Sin, condemnation, impiety, had sounded in their ears how empty words, the warnings of
a Bossuet had not exercised in she most empire. What was left unnerved about the threat of her
husband and Pepe, safe that reduced Tirso counterclaim sour cause
a scene, perhaps a break and a grave disappointment. What could she
do about it