 

Could it be that this same abundance of novels need to employ an exquisite art and deep to
stand out from all others which we write? I deny roundly. Good taste, the delicate aesthetic
judgments, if not in contradiction creates considerable confusion on this point. For anyone
refined and cultured, Prosper Mérimée and Theophilus Gauthier, for example, are best novelists
that Eugene Sue and Ponson du Terrail, and yet, and Colomba, or Captain Fracasse have been the twentieth
part of the favor of the public, sale and the applause that The Mysteries of Paris, or the
endless adventures of Rocambole. "This will consist in Sue and Ponson du Terrail use the fine
art and deep Gauthier and Mérimée ignored or that of the general public has a bad taste, is long
overdue and still prefer the coarse to fine? Or does it consist in the real fine art and depth
has not come to be discovered, only recently, when Mérimée and Gauthier were already dead
and buried, and by virtue of the public art have opened the eyes of minds to understand the good,
and Zola, Daudet, Bourget, Ibsen and Tolstoy, they have opened the springs and legitimate sources
of inspiration to produce works that not only pleasing in the day, but that already contain
the germ, if not in flower, the sublime novel future, compared with which Don Quixote is a work
surface, epidermal inconsequential, without education and pastime?

If things were like, fashion and would be fashionable.

The right way, art infallible to write novels would be found, and for the world should stay
away from him, not mislead us or stay behind.

I warn you, however, that these novels, written with exquisite art and deep commends both Mr.
Reyles, but are read, admired and imitated by those who are fanatically Paris fashion, presumably falling
into oblivion, and even contempt, when fashion go and come another fad. It is possible that then
everything today is subtlety, novelty and depth, look flashy and heavy false affectation.

The truth is, the most popular novels, which have been sold in the world right recent years they
have had in appearance at least, the more influence on political events and social, not written
in Paris and the fashion in Paris, but putting in a certain and impetuous current of opinion, leaving
away by it, increasing its spirit and spreading over its action on the human spirit.