 Then I go out to you for a trifle. Can you tell who is the lord so generous ...

- No sir, it is lady.

Another peek.

- Ah, rogue!

I knew you enjoyed great favor with the ladies.

On the face of Ms Serafina alegrísima ran a dark cloud that momentarily.

- It is gift of Ms Serafina, due to be my birthday today - was quick
to say the priest.

- It seemed to me that you came too happy today!

... To celebrate this there partying, right?

- How to spree? - Asked D. Joaquín with some trepidation, fearing
military openness his friend.

- Yes, an intimate comidita special
dishes and a couple of bottles of claret.

- It was burgundy - said
D. Joaquin laughing - was burgundy.

- Better and better.

- Yes!
- Ms Serafina said, ogling his chaplain.

He returned to start including the shooting glances and winks, lavishing attention thousand tender
denoting a state of perfect bliss.

The arrival of Ms Rita did not disturb her ecstasy, less or more delicious. This lady, small
and plump, with big black eyes and big teeth expressionless also healthy and yellow always
entered with a basket where he kept the job. Sacábala slowly, working half hours quietly listening
carefully to everything that was said, and picked up again after the belongings and went to
do the same elsewhere. This ran in the night three or four houses. It was his habit of knowing,
knowing everything, even the most trivial and insignificant. It well tolerated everywhere, because
despite his boundless curiosity never had febrile for any disappointment caused. Know as only
he enjoyed: he was a disinterested pleasure, intense as that of the scientists who do not look at
the result that their knowledge can give them. As the miser piled up in the box without thinking
of gold coins in use ever Ms Rita and treasured in his mind many private reports could pick
up on his travels through the town, without disturbing anyone with them. A few were kept, then,
to talk secrets in his presence, but if someone did it and came to notice him rushing these desires
and anxieties to know what he hid, he had not slept or rested for
a moment, walked pale, haggard, be made rude and intractable.

Once discovered the coveted secret, even if the thing flimsiest grew calm and serenity, returned
to its sweet, peaceful, harmless. Some subject thugs, as Don Martin, P. Narciso, D. Joachim
and others used to tease pretending a mystery among them, tormented, made him lose his mind
on a whim.

But when he entered the P. Narciso, D. Joaquin became more serious,
that fellow hiding ineffable joy, he frolicked in his soul, his eyes
avoiding find cheerful sparkling with his former mistress.

He felt at once in the nose a whiff aromatic cigar, looked searchingly at his colleague, Ms
Serafina other and began to date.

- There Gaudeamus, right? - Asked softly.

D. Joaquin blatantly refused.

One after another were coming director, Candida, Mrs. Filomena, P. Melchor, Marcelina and, in
short, almost all regular commentators. Soon Formáronse groups always disintegrated the elements
of that society, operating in it the chemical phenomenon elective affinities. But this operation
was done without the violent upheaval and shocks that are observed in the bosom of nature, without
the actions and reactions to gives rise by fermentation. That night, Candida, the bony Miss you
already know, in Instead of going to kiss the hand of the Father Melchor and sit beside him and
whispering all evening, was to do the same with Fr Norberto. Why this drop? In the gathering nobody
knew more than interested and Ms Rita. Fr Melchor had the foresight to say in a rochets house that
made him the youngest cited were limited in breadth, and it cost him work with them to bend the
arm. Instead, he warmly praised a collar that had given Ms Marciala. The case was serious, as
anyone will understand, and should produce this sad result. Ms Marciala, Father Narciso seeing
more and more inclined to admit and thank the fervent admiration of Ms Filomena, showed his emotion
and indignation, approaching D. Melchor and speaking with an affected baby. Ms Filomena, after
several years of worship resigned, quiet, had arrived, when they did not expect the goal of
their aspirations. Much attention, so much love had finally managed to captivate the spirit
of telling chaplain Sarrió, who gave clear evidence to the widow of his affection. After having
tried in vain many times, it had sought from him that was tutor to
his son, and to take office with fans.

His fiery temperament is dominant and then said. Poor child had to experience not only too
much work, beyond his years, but a series of cruel, malicious, refined. And Ms Filomena, who was the
sweetest, I had never raised his hand on his son, impassive man consented to whip mercilessly.
Quieted his conscience by saying that it was for good.

Marcelina, who had dreamed to replace Ms Serafina in the heart of D. Joaquín (and actually had
some basis for this dream, as the young priest did not stop to distinguish among all), he was
already quite disappointed. Became convinced that it took her as a tool for getting a little to your
love and have it more attentive and submissive. This conviction pushed back to D. Narciso,
who had long been abandoned, but this, that he had never professed
great fondness, as Obdulia, unceremoniously rejected.

If, however, ex-girl still struggling bravely with Ms Filomena. A few days earlier had given
the Chaplain crochet a bedspread that was a marvel of pacienzudo and skilled labor. Certainly
the widow, seeing her on the bed of the clergy, underwent a lively displeasure and cried many tears
in secret.

These spiritual turmoil, the struggles of sensitivity and pious devotion among ladies who attended
there were precisely those that gave a dramatic interest in that world serene, innocent. Skills
were certainly not rude down in societies profane, where a violent intrigues affect where the relations
of man and the female are based always on the explosion of the senses,
bear the stamp abominable animality.

Everything was done in a soft, innocent, spiritual small shocks that we have mentioned were
like the soft ripple of a lake and transparent beautiful. It was that gathering as a prelude
to heaven where the angels relations, of holy men and women reach the highest degree of purity
immortal.

What was happening for the soul of Osuna's daughter confirms that idea just made. After that
experience gastric upset, son of the excitement that was, fell into a deep physical and moral
weakness. I felt if they had the impression she committed a great treachery, and though his mind
told him vaguely absurd in a sense, could not lessens its intensity, or less discarded. P. hated
Gil, you hated with all his soul. I'd give anything for revenge. What? Not tell her, but beyond
the depths of the soul was convinced he was right to do so. He was unshakable resolution not to confess
to him anymore. With him! A priest comes by night in doorways whispering with beautiful women
and elegant! Ugh! Would be ashamed to do so. Obdulia was quite sure a woman talking to her confessor
was cute. This assurance was torturing. Of course that if he had the audacity to come to talk,
give him a cold shoulder from the fat, I would back. And confess again with D. Narciso. And
tell his friends in what situation you had seen a lady unknown and elegant. Because there was
no doubt who was dressed elegantly While he had repaired. Long coat that was not done in Peñascosa.
Who would? Some Lancia, sure, that would pay him a visit. And why do you come from afar to visit
a priest, not his mother or his sister or his debt? Do not you know that lady that fame Priests
are very delicate and anything bankruptcy? The brain of the young did not stop spinning and
turning these ideas and the like, while his body remained motionless,
dejected, staring stubbornly at the hands of Ms Marciala, leaving
no a time when his sock.

He felt ill, wanted to leave but a vague hope that he could not define the retained despite
himself.

Meanwhile Fr Norberto was surprised and confused by the unusual attention of it was subjected by
Candida. The poor man was not accustomed to being the lavish. The fair sex of her professed disdain
Peñascosa compassionate. Teníasele by a priest virtuous, but very short-sighted. His own companions,
when they talked about it, they did while the protective lips half smiling, half-mocking. For
the ladies, virtue Fr Norberto was not poetry, it lacked the charm that other priests becomes
contagious, was a pedestrian under that did not translate into delicate and sublime concepts as in
P. Narciso, P. Gil et al. So rare was the girl who confessed to him not least that felt like it
had the taste in conversation or envelop in clouds of incense, Candida as he did at that time. His own
inclination to rescue the lost sluts, much they respected, was not sympathetic to the ladies. Truth
that he spent admirably Without this sympathy and did not detract from fat each day and spend my life
laughing. Flattery he was pouring his ear with his new daughter insinuating voice of confession,
instead of pleasing, troubled him, annoyed him visibly. It was one of the few times he could
seriously seen lounging. It was grinding the seat, changing position every minute, and Knuckles
crackled hands in a formidable, coughed, blushed, and occasionally let out of the throat with
a slight snort alarmed protested his modesty. Finally, as requested strongly by the sweet prospect
of sitting, took a break from the maiden to rise and say a little
twisting hips by way of greeting:

- With your permission, Miss.

As
distressing situation that left his face and dilated blood reappeared
in it the universal benevolent smile which was his principal ornament.

Arrival the group where they were Counsellor, D. Martin, Osuna and
another military gentleman was greeted Lancia with joy.

- I present
- said D. Stranger to his friend Martin, lowering his voice and glancing
suspiciously around to make sure his wife could not hear him - the
father Norbert, a priest who will be able report all the huts of the
people, if you want to know any.

- Oh, oh! D. Martin, by God!

-
Dare you to say they do not know!

- Well, yes ... some know ... Unfortunately,
I need to enter them once ...

- This man is dedicated to the lost
youth - continued D. Martin, addressing his companion, smiling in
amazement.

- Jesus!

Consider, D. Martin, who this gentleman does not know me ...

- But that knows you talk.

Ms Eloisa, by far, cast glances of terror to her husband, noting the confusion of D. Norberto and
the laughter of others.

- Well - continued Mr. de las Casas, becoming cautious and conciliatory,
- I will not tell, D. Norbert, you go with bad idea to these houses
of iniquity, but what always argue is that it is you provide a great
service: you're making a killing.

- How, how? - Scared the cleric
asked.

- Very simple, helping to raise the price of the commodity.

Recall the example Carmen the zapatillera ...

This was a girl whom
Fr Norberto had managed to get a house of prostitution and lead to
a convent.

After some time he went out and returned to the bad life.

D. became Norberto to persuade her to repent, and again she came and gave asylum to vice.

- And what does that matter? ...

- I'll explain, Father, I will explain ... Meet you ... When you catechized Carmen, I do not deny that
the merchandise was quite undervalued and ...

- I do not know!

What things have you, D. Martin! - Said the cleric embarrassed.

- I know, father, I know.

Well, after he spent a year there and a bit fatter in the convent
and became surrounded by an aura of honesty, the price rose significantly.

You take it back when I was a bit estropeadilla and demand had diminished to a point raised
fears for the bucolic, and now it comes again chubby and sanctified
is quoted again as in their heyday.

- Jesus!

Jesus! Go all for God - said the priest covered their ears, but not angry .-- you will be very
bad, D. Martin.

Ms Eloisa, it warned that what was happening, finally rose from his
chair and came toward them, asking in a bad mood:

- Do not play today
ombre?

- Here we go, here we go - her husband said, stifling laughter
that flowed from the body, such as others.

They sat Adviser, D. Norbert and he was at table, and soon block out
all worldly sounds fascinating under the influence of the sword, the
bad and the rough.

Shortly after Councillor gnashed his teeth and mustache pulled cruelly, being twice followed with
three clubs, his personal enemy. Many years ago that had declared a war to death. Every time I
came to the hands, twitched Chief, swore silently like a trooper. The three of clubs, malicious
and cunning as any other card, enjoyed apparently irritated him, and whenever he could sneak nicely
in the pile he distributed.

Not only in the party, but in the whole village was known this antipathy. Some, with certain precautions,
of course, because D. Romualdo easy shooting I teased her.

On one occasion, angling behind the church, pulled in hook a card that turned out to be the three
of clubs.

He had no doubt that he had thrown there on purpose, but said nothing
so as not to laugh.

Osuna meantime had gone to rub a little against Ms Eloisa. Among all the ladies attending that
gathering there were only two fat, Ms Teodora and Ms Eloisa. Was also good meat Ms Rita, but it
was soft, yellow. Other "pure Scotland," as he called the skinny, referring to cod. So there
was no end to our contempt Hunchback professed that degenerate society and exhausted from adipose
tissue. Just going by there to find his daughter, or materially did not know where to shelter. Ms
Eloisa looked sympathetic (as I watched all the good lady) the passion that the monster seemed
feel to it. When you are too close, gently parted without extinction so his kindly smile.
Ms Teodora Instead you had a great fear, real fear. The same approach was Osuna, who was already
suffocating caste buxom, restless, color it was and another was coming. But such was the shame
he felt, had not declared to his own father's dirty insinuations misshapen. What is the difference
between this indecent and serene, majestic and romantic D. Juan Casanova! D. Ni Peregrin could
compare with, to be the latter, by way of the mature girl, a subject
much more voluptuous and land.

D. Pilgrims had arrived, as usual, in the past. And if the gathering is not warned most strident
of nasal snorts, as infinitely more solemn blink and the serious way to put a leg over the other
and lean back to something important, important, had to communicate was that he did not want
to notice. He waited patiently, like all men sure of success, to have a break, and when he arrived,
he uttered with his shrill voice, piercing, turning to the lady of the house:

- Do not you know whom I have just seen entering the house of his brother, accompanied by excused?

A
Obdulia he jumped so hard the heart that thought hit the ground. Other, including Ms Eloisa,
looked up curiously.

- Who was that?

- Your sister Joaquina - cried more that said former acting governor of Tarragona, as announced
Judgement Day.

Deep stupor throughout the party.

- My sister! - Exclaimed.

- His own sister - confirmed D. Peregrin with trumpeting horrid.

- There can be - said Ms Eloisa.

- There can be - said her husband,
suspending the game.

- There can be - repeated Ms Serafina Barrado.

The ex-governor of Tarragona let out through the nose some deafening
snorts as an engine that displaces the excess steam, and said:

-
Do you think, gentlemen, I have no eyes in his head?

This momentous question, accompanied by the appropriate frown, produced
enough impression among the switches.

- Well you could have been
mistaken - said the invalid.

- It's so easy! - Said Ms Eloisa.

-
I've seen as you see them now, three steps away.

I came to talk to the clerk to the issue of the anniversary of my
father, when the hole street Quadrant I to P. Gil with a lady who
seemed a stranger.

I wanted to know who he was, and I paused a little near the lantern,
hiding behind a doorway.

It was Joaquin, no doubt. I waited a bit and followed with his eyes until he entered the house
of Montesinos.

- But you know well? - Asked P. Narciso.

- The same as you.

- Peregrin, please note that you have not done more than a visit to Madrid, and the night, as
I've said - she said timidly D. Juan.

The ex-governor threw his brother a look of unutterable contempt.

- John, do not put the leg.

- Peregrin I do not know why ...

- John! ...

- Peregrin! ...

- Do not the goal!

Not the goals! A lady that I saw after visiting another portion times in the street, and I welcomed.
Therefore, I feel the sad need to show yourself what you just said is an impertinence. When assured
that I knew this lady, is because the know. I never talk to smoke with straw. If I were a man
light and baseless could not occupy the positions I have occupied. Sírvate of government.

- Now I remember - Candida said, - today I have seen alighting from the coach to a blond lady with
a very elegant dress.

D. Peregrin shrugged with a gesture of disdain, as if to say: 'What
you come in my support to counter the absurdities of this fool?

"

That data and concluded that gesture to annihilate D. John, whose face expressed dejection. But
Ms Theodora, with her large calm eyes, he plunged a look so warm that the factions knight, contracted
with grief, went gradually dilating, and a placid concluded by a melancholy smile on his lips
disappear. The head of D. Peregrin, however, was instantly crossed
by a portion of wrinkles. The undeniable superiority was about his
brother, what he used