 And Dona Beatriz - such was the respect
and consideration that he had wanted - the Count is angry that anyone could imagine he dared
to desire.

The Count would therefore appear as fine friend, as an admirer and constant as that He delights
in talking, watching, communicating thoughts, without interest or purpose it is not clear as crystal
and gold. To this there was no need to hide who spoke spend time with Dona Beatriz ear. It was
not secret to conceal the sinful, but in order not to pollute the holy. It was not the mystery that
surrounds the offender is over honest people, but the mystery of
undertaken with regard to the profane vulgar.

Unfortunately, the profane vulgar was not content with believing in the sanctity of mystery, and
I explained a bit tired so uplifting.

Almost every night and Condesito Beatriz had a lengthy duet, unheard of for all except for them.

Don
Braulio before the duo took place just as mysterious as Don Braulio was absent. Neither they are
modest, or Don Braulio was worried.

It seems that all three lived equally convinced of the pristine innocence of it all, although
would also that the conviction was entirely consumed in three of them, not leaving anything for
the rest the world.

All the pundits were complaining about the low of the sham and shame, which that the taking of
Conde, Beatriz, and even the great Don Braulio, in whom mercy to fame was getting to be too clever,
no person would involve candid and ignorance, but notorious and vile pretense.

More extreme and who spread this bad opinion was Arturo, the poet. In his verse was almost always
religious and moral, and ascetic, and mystic, without mixing mills, but in prose, as if the verses
had spent all the poetry of his soul, was most prosaic and realistic than you can imagine.
This dissonance between his words and his words triggered rhythmic
the pace was a strange contradiction.

The subway and the consonants seemed imperative categorical conscience. He recited his poems,
and listeners were inclined to regard as a holy father, Dr. enlightened and blessed servant of
God. He spoke without number and without rhyme, and was afraid to hear it was a runaway tyke,
without belief and without respect for anything.

The night following the morning when the conference took place between
the Count and his mother, Count, therefore he was moody, mixed very
little in general conversation the gathering of Rosita.

He spoke a few words with her, spoke briefly with Ines, who was there, greeted the pundits,
and went to make his apart with Dona Beatriz which was apparently
longer and more intimate than ever.

Don Braulio wine that night and saw the addition to the usual serenity.

The

gatherings usually lasted until about two, but don Braulio and ladies
used leave before one o'clock.

So they did that night.

The Count of Alhedín, though he had won more chat, did not dare to leave when it was Dona Beatriz,
or immediately afterwards. It was, entering the general run of those
who were there until the last minute.

Conde did not speak, however,
because he was preoccupied and imaginative.

The poet, usually was
the one who made the biggest expense of words when they spoke the
Count. That night the poet was in vein. Talked a lot, say a thousand
jocosidades, they are laughing, and he was one who got drunk to talk
and to be applauded, rather than drinking wine and spirits. Arthur,
perhaps without having taken a drink to his lips, he was drunk