 Once settled in the beautiful hotel "London" (one of the many fine and well has served the
city) went through the splendid square of the Infanta Isabel, from the which we saw the huge
mass of the famous tower, visible from almost every street in Seville. A few hundred meters from
the square we find the impressive cathedral and the tower is located backwards and form a separate
building but connected by later buildings.

Nothing greater than this monument of glowing dome, which shines in the sun as a huge jewel
suspended in the ether. Looking at her it feels full of admiration for the great simplicity that
she wanted to give the Eastern or Moorish genius. That air archangel bronze golden crowns
the dome and turns like a weather vane, is in blue do not know what causes to scale the height
to sink the gaze alternately in the sky and the sea of ??houses glowing and wonderful countryside
around them. The tower, perfectly square at its Moorish until very considerable height, was
completed long after conquest, and unfortunately a completely different style. Thus, until
the region of Bell is the Arab civilization, finishing his work the fine architecture of the Renaissance.
The total lifting of the Giralda is 364 feet, being at the same highest form there in Spain. The
body of the tower is 50 feet per side. You enter it by a miserable little door, and rises to the enormous
height of the bells for 35 ramps or sloping corridors without any tier. Then, for very narrow
staircases hand, can be dangerous ascension to the bronze figure is named Giralda. There feels
like a vertigo ... something like the flamboyant desire to fly over the abyss.

The show is viewed from there is of supreme beauty, but still wonderful (Except the sea view)
than that of Valencia. On one side are the mountains far vaguely Sierra de Ronda ending chain of
the Sierra-Nevada. The other plains lower Guadalquivir, stretching to the horizon in the direction
of the ocean. To the north are more or less the Córdoba Mountains, spurs of the Sierra Morena
Finally, tending view to east in the direction of the high Andalusia, are plain to be beautiful
are raising degrees even lost in the undulating hills and mountains that turn through the
center of the basin of the Guadalquivir to Jaén. The horizon is immense and admirably beautiful.

Picking
up the look in a small circle, is all over the opulent plain gorgeous for cultivation, careful,
their large populations, their graceful cottages, their swarms small
flocks, country homes, orchards and gardens, and its labyrinth of
trees and in groups more or less extensive, and in rows or streets
glittering with vegetables, where orange alternate with vineyards,
olive groves, endless fields sown with vegetables cereals, etc.. And
amid the vast plains will slow snail Guadalquivir as a gray ribbon,
with the most graceful twists and turns.

Localities more or less considerable, but all look industrious and homogenous, multiply in all
directions. There are on, with the aid of glasses or no it (in the direction of the road Ecija
and Cordoba), the towns of Alcala de Guadaira and Mairena, and then the hills (full of people too)
who dominate the town of Carmona, enough people. On the other hand (to Jeremy) Utrera and Oran,
and to the right of the Guadalquivir among other populations, San-Lucar
la Mayor, Encarnacion and Alcalá-of-river.

The province of Seville, the sixth in Spain in order of population, has 463.486 inhabitants.
The countryside, highly cultured, have a very abundant population, robust, vigorous and lover of
work, while the passionate pleasures. Quite the reverse of Castilian regions, loneliness is not
manifested at any point in the province of Seville, abound and the
small towns of 1.000 to 4.000 souls.

However, they do note some considerable cities, centers of a vast agricultural production is mainly
wine, oil, cereals, grains, livestock of all kinds, vegetables and fruits. The most notable
of these, cities are:

Sevilla, which has (even the new suburbs outside the fortifications) 112.600 inhabitants

Ecija, with 28.800

Carmona, with 18.800.

Osuna 17.500

Utrera, with 14.000

Marchena, with 13.000

Alcalá de Guadaira, with
8.260

All these people although they are primarily agricultural centers,
feed a crowd manufacturing, factories and workshops of all kinds,
which increase the animation of the country, and we give a lot of
economic interest.

Sevilla alone has some large branches and factories manufactures
special importance, - such as its superb casting of guns and cannons,
their nitrería, and especially its vast manufacturing of cigarettes
(by the State that is), which gives 4.000 labor to workers, establishment
worth a visit with pleasure and interest.

Specifying the view over the city, the scene is so curious and beautiful. The Guadalquivir
describing a semicircle around a large part the precincts of the city proper, screened and enclosed
by walls, it is said, dates from the time of Caesar, and numerous Isolated strong today are useless
if only by their obvious inferiority about the progress of the strategy and architecture brutal selfishness,
isolation and death. On either side you look at all interested in their whims and contrasts
funny, and the details stand out.

At around the nine suburbs, which only one, the de Triana, inhabited by Gypsies, which is the
most populous, is at the margin right of the Guadalquivir, linked to the city by a beautiful suspension
bridge. Very close bridge on the port itself, stands the lovely golden dome of the Torre de Oro,
which seems glittering scaly.

At the foot of the Giralda tower we saw the great mass of the cathedral and romantic, whose dark
Gothic style and color made her look a granite mountain shattered in one hundred peaks, needles,
bold arches and huge cracks. It was like an extinct volcano, imposing Fear for no majesty of its
great time-blackened rubble. Next of the cathedral, the splendid palace of stone and marble
called the Market or Bolsa, which was the famous "House of Trade" for the India trade. The beautiful
little further called the Alcazar Moorish monument, surrounded by
delightful gardens which are themselves Sevilla treasure.

And far beyond even the immense edifice of tobacco manufacturing, Modern and elegant palace
of San Telmo (owned by the Duke of Montpensier) to the edge of a vast and beautiful park that
stretches on the left bank of the Guadalquivir.

Looking in another direction, is in the suburb of San Roque the monument called Canos de Carmona,
impressive Roman aqueduct of 410 arches, and to one side the great factory of saltpetre, in
the suburb Resolana of the beautiful hospital of Charity and the Arsenal, in the splendid Macarena
military hospital, and St. Bernard's famous bronze cannon foundry. Else is a labyrinth of narrow
winding streets, buildings uneven, capricious, many bizarre shapes of them, whose swarm centenarians
coconut trees stand and Historical, many exquisite palaces or houses
of the same style as those observed in Cadiz, and a lump of balconies,
roofs, turrets and Moorish buildings, brownish glow at the bottom
of the towers and domes of many churches in Arabic style, shining,
picturesque on account of the flake-shaped roofs formed with small
tiles mixed colors.

Add to the interest of the thousand details of the delicacy of the interior vegetation, and include
the beauty of that pangram semi-oriental and semi-Spanish at the same time. The orchards and
gardens are numerous, not only in the suburbs but also in the center of the city carefully kept
in the courtyards. So, are the masses of the buildings as a huge trail of uneven rocks amid
a sea of ??pomegranate, orange, lemon, and millions of jasmine flowers that fill the air with
perfume. Sevilla deserved his fame: is a haven of greenery and curiosities of all kinds.

* * * * *

After having a general idea of ??the Andalusian metropolis, as a material object, we descended La
Giralda to go and observe the customs of their society. Walking the streets, penetrating in
cafes and hotels, visiting the elegant homes and gardens, and scanning monumental objects Sevilla
abounds, it recognizes the essential point type or characteristic of that society, ardent and
poetic for its blood and its climate, independent and proud by being that it seeks to actively
work, and passionate in the extreme. Sevilla is a huge museum, in the full force of the word,
and materially and morally.

       The feeling artistic background of the character is from Seville,
in all classes of society - now disclosed in the construction of sumptuous
elegance, now in the candid demonstrations - and predominant taste
(simple or refined) in the customs and usages, simply because the
picturesque and rudimentary.

The picturesque adjective is undoubtedly the type that fits better Seville. At the bottom of
everything that lives there and stirred, as the inanimate, a manifestation vigorous poetry, a tendency
to wonder, expansion sentimental, he can not escape the observer.

There is a trait that does not attend to impress the foreigner in this regard .-- The thousand
beauties of the houses belonging to wealthy families, where marble, flowers and decorations and
colors vivid and seductive are lavished, the grace and freshness of the thousands of yards,
that summer nights are converted into classrooms, the care with which many are preserved scented
gardens and orchards, where the waters abound not stop jumping ever, the enthusiasm that all
manifest: for the naive paintings and sculptural objects, either regardless of their quality,
the thousand funny quirks of all the portals, balconies, cabinets, viewpoints air and the barred
windows (which make such an important role in the adventures love or mere gallantry), the luxury and artifice
of the shops and stores, glittering of workmanship, jewelry, silks, art and trinkets, the taste for
variety, apart the requirement of the climate, is an art, whether
it is made, either through their use; passion for bullfighting, theater,
horseback riding, tightrope walkers and all games ios class entertainment,
love the game, under almost all its forms, passion in that work of
art, in a sense, and taste so wonderful, unexpected, or random, the
unique energy penchant for the picturesque and outstanding, which
is manifested in folk dresses, whether by their forms, either by their
ornaments or by a combination of bright colors and shining; charm
with all the music they love happy and passionate, passionate dancing,
horseback riding and careers, fairs, processions, etc., the strange
forms and motifs of gear riding, weapons and musical instruments,
the sum abundance of shops, factories small and workshops, where thousands
of employees work (isolated or in small groups) the making of a thousand
works of art: all that and some other circumstances that step high
artistic express deep feeling of Seville.

And it can not be otherwise, considering how powerful the influence they exert on moral education
of a people the nature and objects around him constantly and impress. The Seville, at birth, is
the notion of beauty and inspiration of poetry in all which is in sight. A wonderful sky with
a sun that warms and enlivens the blood., A prodigious fertility land, giving as they are required,
a vegetation essentially poetic; such as olive and orange trees, lemons and pomegranates, water
and perfumes in abundance for give joy and pleasure, an easy life, thanks to the topographical
conditions of the country, wine (The great tempter that incites pleasure) good, strong and in abundance.
On the other hand, monuments and race predispose to the love of art. From start to march, to live,
everywhere are wonderful monuments, beautiful on the outside and filled with treasures inside,
and beautiful faces are observed. I have not ever seen a race so strongly beautiful as that
of Seville, and I think it will rival in Europe, if not in some regions Eastern Hungary and in
some provinces of Italy.

The beauty is so general in the types of Seville that is almost vulgar. There is no severe
Spanish beauty majesty or beauty impassive and cold of the English, or artificial grace (somewhat
intentionally) of the French, nor the harsh and almost brutal beauty of Valencia. The man is generally
of high stature, - women of non-small-regular if Height .-- Despite the differences that determines
sex everywhere, there are certain features that are common to men and women in Seville: forms
slender, thin but strong; black hair, silky and shining, rarely curled, finely arched black
eyebrows; upper teeth and very white, a soft complexion and ruddy
brown color, very attractive; very dark eyes, vivid, intelligent and
quickly go through the 1st of more Ardentía more passionate tenderness
to the smiling and friendly, a ride full of abandonment and grace,
naturally faddish and as tempting without malice, the lilting voice,
soft and sonorous, accented dramatically at the end of predictions,
and always passionate interjections and salt idioms provincial - not
counting the popular pronunciation that changes the sound of 1st r,
1st l, 1a s, The 1st z, etc. in the most original and spicy - these
are the general features of type Seville.

Women are sweet and friendly, although there are in your face I know not what of manly without
affectation. The man has some rough, very East, which attracts or afraid in the manner as it
question. If you are looking to an Andalusian Seville for good, with refinement and courtesy, although
it belongs the vulgar, found him friendly, expansive, very attentive and obliging. But watch
out for walk by crook! Then, if a bullfighter, or bully or farmer, horseman or something like
that, I check for the moment a shower of expletives in to pound and he took out the knife or
rolling up fists to decide the question by way of enforcement. But if instead of one of those geniuses
Atrabiliarios occurs with a boastful type Andalusian (which abounds so much), the altercation
have different proportions: it is a struggle of words mountains where the alien who does not know
While the country may be completely mystified. On hearing the Andalusian throwing bravado, you
would believe able to swallow the Sierra-Nevada and unhinge the world
with a kick.

Is formalized, twitches, shouts, threatens, roars like a cannon and looks like a fury .... Le cojeis
the word, showing that not afraid, and then the lamb is lion, makes you a thousand blandishments,
laughs, makes him all joke ("binge") and invites you to grab a drink with the utmost cordiality.

The
Andalusian, and perhaps more than all the Seville, is frank and jocular, yet lightweight helmets:
a bad word, a quizzical look, a gesture is enough to cause doubt a complaint noisy. Fortunately,
though often the business is arranged with knives or at least to the more slaps and punches,
usually gruff and blustering storm ends a reconciliation at the pub, sworn on the bottle in a puff of
smoke, snuff, maybe the sound of the guitar. HOWEVER, there is a question not ever fix (at least
in the world of bullfighters, and manolas majos) but by ways in fact or by giving up absolute:
it is the matter of love, which often is only a matter of vanity or dot. The Seville of that class
does not support even a glance at his girl upstart addressed or your pretty girl, as they call
them. If a husband is sometimes tolerant and more human, as a lover leads to the ferocity of
jealousy or ridicule. This proves that the vanity goes a long, and very little true love in
the energy with which to defend its possession or monopoly.

We look upon his "girl" or pass by the bottom of the window once and spear, to the second makes you
frown sullen; to the third I said with anger and stress provoking:

"- Eh, mister! (Or Camarda) who encounters me bujca me! If you peel ujté me eye to EJTA girl
another sees, and know that it could occur to chicoteo, ú chicotéamo us! That if they want
sarba er Burt er ujté road and take to another party with music. "

And strength is giving up the company, failing which the knife into action to support with
their arguments, the intimation of Andalusian jealous.

The inclination to gallantry (and his many consequences) is very general in Seville. The 'Gate' or
window on that makes a very important and traditional. If you walk down the streets you after
six o'clock in the afternoon, wherever you will see scenes that will give idea of ??comedy
da hilt.

At the foot of many low and narrow windows is tipping some gallant head with an air of mystery,
leaning on one arm resting on the wall, and wrapped in his cloak, if gender is not nice (but not
spend jacket), as seen in the a face flattering shadow looming on the bottom of the grate. What
do these two figures? - Are stripping the kettle. I had often heard this phrase in Colombia,
with a very different meaning. There is called stripping the kettle to be idle, wasting time
when it is bound to a work or task - as the pawn suspending work for bed or get to chat free trade.
In Spain, the turkey strips in a more entertaining and promising, since operation is to make the cut
for the fence or window to dear or beloved.