 Watch his face, Don Juan! When he goes home at night from the top, the devil that match
on.

Don Juan was quick to turn it off to get rid of those insults were
burst in the idle audience laughter.

As time passed, the hum of conversation grew to be unbearable. The savages of the pan expressed his
impatience with kicking, screaming and Baladres.

Changed with each other, above the seats, jokes and phrases, rather than obscene, disgusting.
Because there were no ladies.

At last appeared on stage four men, Don Rosendo Belinchón, Alvaro Peña, Don Feliciano Gomez
and Don Rudesindo Cepeda, owner and producer of sparkling cider. The four took off their hats
when he stepped on the stage box. Prodújose suddenly silent. Some of the spectators, at least,
were also found. The majority, under the color of the dark and yielding to the instinct of
coarseness, strong in that region, remained covered. Don Rosendo and his companions smiled to
the competition to shame. To get rid pregnancy and fear they felt, began talking to viewers
in the first ranks, who could spot.

Alvaro Peña, something more daring, perhaps because of his character military and its anti-religious
instruction, advanced to the shell of the pointer, and giving his words too familiar intonation,
without winning smile as the dancers, said:

- Gentlemen, both my colleagues and I would like eh, you go up to this site some pejsonas of jespeto
eh, to be in the public, to help us with his authority Eh, and your
picture ... to help us eh?

(Could not find the final) in the company we will emprendej ...

The assistant marine r's pronounced with the throat, producing a sound very similar to the jack.

There was a murmur in the assembly of assent and sympathy for the
modesty that stood out in that proposition.

- Is not it around Don
Pedro Miranda? - Asked Peña, serene and, returning to purchase resolution
his characteristic military.

- Here's ... Here - said several voices.

-
Don Pedro, if we hiciese you the favoj ... Don Pedro is defended by
those who pushed to the stage, saying under his breath:

- But, gentlemen,
why me?

What issue? ... There are others ...

There was no choice. Gradually they were carrying up near the stage.

Once there, as there was no table or ladder to climb, including Feliciano Peña Gómez, the auparon
by hands to put on the stage.

- Well, Mr. Rufo, raise you.

Don Rufo (attending physician of the town), having defended a bit, was raised in suspense too. And
by the same simple mechanism went on stage five or six other gentlemen. Each ascent was greeted
with loud applause and a murmur of satisfaction with the benevolent competition. The assistant
saw Gabino Maza sitting in a chair near the wall, and he shouted
with joy:

- Gabino, not seen you!

... Come on, man, come here.

- I'm fine here - the choleric replied dryly former Navy officer.

-
Do you want to fall for you?

Maza said quietly:

- No need.

Those who were with him did so with others.

- Go, Don Gabino, above.

Do not be lazy. Men like you are the ones who should be there. By all means you should not
go up!

And at the same time tried to lift. But were unsuccessful in all instances. Maza insisted on staying in
the chair with an insistence chickened proud to excite you to rise. Alvaro Peña then dropped
him, but after a long struggle had to retire rebuffed.

Since the stage was almost full, gathered more chairs were brought from the cupboard the comedians.
They sat on them the finest Sarrió neighbors, and held secret meeting to resolve who was to
chair the meeting.

Certainly not quite understand, and the public gave clear signs of
impatience.

Most judged that corresponded Rosendo the honor of sitting behind
the pine table, but he refused it with modesty honored him far more.

At last she has noted that the public was getting tired.

This stoutly applauded.

New and annoying delay before you work out who was to lead the word to the competition. Alvaro
Peña, who was a duty and acceleration, decided to take some steps towards mouth of the curtain,
and said aloud:

- Gentlemen.

- Chis, hush! Silence! - Shouted some.

And there was silence.

- Gentlemen: The purpose of this meeting celebrajse (surprise and extraordinary complacency hearing
the buzzword contest exotic) is none other eh, that's all unite to fomentaj moral and material interests
of Saji. A few days ago told me our most worthy President that these interests were abandoned,
eh, and it was necessary at all costs fomentajlos. Gentlemen, there are several problems Saji jesolvej
at this historical moment; cubiejto mejcado the problem, eh, the
problem of the cemetery, the problem of cajetera Rodillero to the
problem of the slaughterhouse and others.

I told my dear friend, the worthy President: The only way eh, of these problems is celebraj
jesolvej a meeting where all emitij the sajienses can freely their opinion ...

- Huh? - Shouted a wag from the pan.

Peña furious looked up that way. And being a man who was supposed bad temper, and spent inordinate
whiskers, the cunning feared for their skins and did not whimper.

- My good friend, whose great heart and progress Amojan know all I
said a long time I thought the same thing, and he also eh, had another
project that is not in comunicaj Tajdar the enlightened public.

In consequence of this we have invited neighbors to Saji for public
jeunión, and here we are ... because we have come.

(This lack of inhibition produces excellent effect in the audience laughing with benevolence).

-
Gentlemen - followed the assistant encouraged by the rumors - I think
that what is needed to this town is that letajgo despertaj of lies,
huh?, vivij of the life of reason and progress, eh, catch up with
the advances of the century, eh, self-awareness tenej and their fuejzas.

So far, Saji was a town dominated by theocracy, many ninth long sermon,
a long rosary, not for anything pensaj in promoting their interests,
nor in learning anything useful.

You need Salija the sooner this situation, eh? You need sacudij the
yoke of theocracy.

A town dominated by priests, a people is always late ... and dirty. (Laughter and applause, of which
we hear as it chicheo.)

The aide spoke better, and acquired a certain grace in trying to denigrate the clergy.

- I ask the word - a high-pitched voice shouted from a balcony.

- Who is it? Who is it? - They asked each other spectators and dignitaries stage.

- The son of Perinolo .-- Who? - The son of Perinolo .-- The son of Perinolo.

This phrase was repeated in a whisper throughout the theater.

Perinolo the son of a young pale, dark-eyed, he spent long hair. No warning more in the twilight
that reigned. It was fortunate for him. To be whole, would be perfectly the grease spots on his
coat aged, fat on his shirt and matted hair of the mane, as holes in the boots and pants rags
in any way could be seen because the railing of the box. But all I knew by heart the neighbors
Sarrió TRIPPING often fed on the streets and cafes. Let's say that, despite this, was a youth of
gentle disposition and face.

His father, José María the Perinolo, antique and classic cobbler of the town, was a of those
old craftsmen spent the mid coat and top hat high. Carlist fan, a member of every religious brotherhoods.
I prayed the rosary for the afternoons at the touch of prayer in the church of San Andrés, accompanied
by a few mujerucas; out in the processions of Holy Week with a habit of disciplining and crown of
thorns and was responsible and cared for the chapel of the Nazarene in Back Street. This holy
man "who never had anything to say "(supreme expression of honesty in small towns) Sinforoso
educated his son and two others, in the fear of God and tirapié. Lashes penance on his knees, days
on bread and water, slapping ears and lugs. The childhood Sinforoso was full of these poetic memories.
When he reached puberty, as shown singular skill to learn their lessons, the Perinolo be persuaded
that it was called to support the shoe store when he was killed, but to be firm column of the
Roman Church. Faltábanle means to send the seminar Lancia. Relief came in his Don Rosendo and
Don Melchor de las Cuevas, Don Rudesindo and the pastor of the village, which will spontaneously
assigned three pesetas a day until he sang mass. But to study the second year of theology, these
gentlemen of the seminary received a letter written elegantly. In it they expressed he did
not feel called by God to an ecclesiastical career, and that before being a bad priest preferred
to learn the trade from his father or embarking for America. Ended up pleading earnest words
that let you change the theology of the law, to which thought inclined, and this does not give
so much to the chagrin of his father. Benefactors agreed demand. And Sinforoso column was
made after the state rather than the Church, as desired the Perinolo. As the race continued
with laws and awards outstanding at the beginning, Notable later and finally approved, Smear
some articulejos Lancia in newspapers.

With this thought in the case of letting the hair grow and put glasses
on his nose.

So unveiled its new graduate Sarrió with the aura of glory around
whom also made his debut, and even fought battles in the press.

He had joined in the Liberal Party's most advanced and denying their
ancestry.

With this, his father was strongly disagreeable. If you enter the house left debióse to the intercession
of the mother.

Not speak or give him a penny for their expenses, limited to consenting
him sleep under their roof and eat the ration.

After several months the shoes were skinned and was sorry to see her clothes. But all very well made
up for the lawyer with the packing and gravity the appearance and graceful in his bearing. He
spent the morning reading in bed, afternoons and evening in the café
loudly discussing what he read in the morning.

The neighbors do not loved him but respected much your artwork and talent.

- Who has asked for the floor? - Asked Don Rosendo.

- Suarez ... Sinforoso Suarez - said the young man leaning his breast over the railing.

- You've got, Mr. Smith.

The young man coughed and put his fingers on both hands through his hair, leaving it hollow and stirred,
put on glasses that brought hanging from a cord and said:

- Gentlemen.

The firm, calm intonation that gave the word, and made long pause after ensuring glasses on his
nose and walking a look of a great man in the competition, imposed silence and respect.

- After the brilliant sentence just made my dear friend illustrated assistant of the port, Mr. Peña
(the helper, but has not spoken with Smith more than three Sometimes in life, leans grateful. Sarrió
respectable neighbors learn that there more prayers to the Lord's Prayer, the Hail Mary and the
other prayed by the Church), will be well convinced the assembly of generous and patriotic purpose
which has inspired the promoters of this meeting. Nothing big, nothing so beautiful, nothing so
sublime as people gathered to see a to discuss the highest and dearest interests of his life.
Ah, gentlemen! to listen just now to Mr. Peña, I imagined being in the Agora of Athens deciding,
as a citizen free, including free citizens as well as I, the destiny of my country. I imagined
hear the word strong and burning one of those great speakers who illustrated the Hellenic people
... Because the eloquence of my dear friend Mr. Peña has a lot of the passion that characterized
snatched Demosthenes, the prince of speakers and enough also on the fluidity and elegance that shone
in the speeches of Pericles. (Pause hand glasses.) is alive and vibrant as Cleon, is sensible
and prudent as that of Aristides; have specific and serious tones
as the corners, and notes as pleasing to the ear Isocrates.

Ah, gentlemen! I too, like the eloquent speaker who preceded me in speak, wanted the town
where I first saw the light of day, wake up progress to life, the life of freedom and justice
... Sarrió! How sweet memory how unspeakable joy in my soul awakens this single name! Here ran
the happy years from my childhood ... Here he began to form my mind ... Here he beat first love
Once my heart ... In another part of my reason is enriched with the
knowledge of science, with great ideas engendered the study of law
... Here we have nourished my soul the holy and sweet emotions of
the home.

Elsewhere in my mind has been trained in controversy, in the struggle of ideas ... Here I have
cultivated my sensitivity to the tender love family ... Gentlemen, I'll say very high, no matter
what happens, is called a large Sarrió destinations. Is entitled to be one of the first populations
of the Cantabrian coast, an emporium activity and wealth, both for
the excellent situation in which nature has placed, as diligence,
honesty and the great gifts of intelligence of its inhabitants.

(Bravo! Bravo! Unanimous and resounding applause.)

Off ice of surprise, rather than preventing unjust, had formed, the
brave and the applause was followed without interruption to each paragraph.

Never the hardworking, honest Sarrió intelligent inhabitants had heard
so easy and pulidamente.

That speech was the revelation of modern parliamentary life, he said the dissolution of Alvaro
Peña meeting.

Half an hour lead on the floor amid the growing enthusiasm of the
audience, when one of the heroes of the stage occurred to him that
could have dry mouth and would timely serve a glass of sugared water.

Quietly reported the observation president, he interrupted the speaker,
saying:

- If Mr. Smith is tired, can rest.

I will give orders to serve him a glass water.

These words were greeted with a murmur of approval.

- I'm not tired,
Mr. President - he said softly.

(Yes, yes, let him rest rest .-- .-- That brings you a glass of water .-- It can make damage:
you throw a few drops of anise.)

The spectators, sudden undertaken an ardent sympathy, loving mothers became for the son of Perinolo.

This,
inflating more than it was, the audience smiled and said:

- Fatigue is characteristic of inexperienced soldiers.

Those who like me are used to the battles the podium (he had spoken several times at the Academy
of Jurisprudence of Lancia) is not give up so easily ...

Now let's
say Mechacan, shoemaker, neighbor and competitor for many years by
Mr Joseph Mary the Perinolo, who had been reared to Sinforoso and
had herded more than one and more two lampreazos with tirapié when
returning from school called him to vejarle by the nickname, I was
listening from the pot with big hands resting on the railing and face
bristling with spikes on his hands.

In his eyes, shaded by a tangled jungle tab, never gave the spark
of enthusiasm that burned in the other.

Previously I read with astonishment, anger and envy.

When he managed to hear the boastful words the child his opponent,
unable to endure so much farce, shouted angrily:

- Outside the louse,
gar!

Indescribable outrage in the audience.

All angry faces turn to the pan. Oyens the voices of:

- Who is this donkey? - A jail! - Off the Pig!

The president asked with terrible severity:

- Are we in a cultured or between Hottentots?

This question thus formulated, produces deep impression on the public.

Suarez, a little pale and agitated voice said at last:

- If the Assembly wishes, I am willing to sit down.

(No, no! - Continue! Loud and sustained applause the speaker.)

The outrage against the switch rude grown to the point with these humble words, threatening cries
are heard and many shake their fists in front of the site which had
left voice.

Alvaro Peña, the Greek orator, more angry than anyone end up in the
pan and slaps and kicks to the unfortunate Mechacan throws the applause
from the theater public.

Calmer and the waves, he continues. Makes an excursion into the field of history for Sarrio show
that, since the time of Roman domination, when Spain was Further divided into Citerior and
then in Tarragona, Andalusia and Lusitania, to our days, had shown in all cases a very powerful
genius of the people above Nieva. Such statements were greeted with
cheers of approval samples. Introdúcese then suddenly in the domains
of law and knowledge boasts rare Sarrió especially in science and
Papiniano Tribonian. At some point, modesty that great credit, said:

-
What I have said, gentlemen, has no scientific value. Any child knows
that has greeted the Pandects ...

Don Jeronimo de la Fuente, a master
of first letters of the town, which was studied by modern methods
and knew something of Froebel and Pestalozzi, enlightened man, who
had written a handbook of irregular verbs and had a telescope on the
balcony of his house always pointing to the sky, rises from his chair,
and smiling with great shame says:

- The palm leaves many years ago
have been removed from schools.

- I have not said clapping, I said
Pan-dec-TAS - replica Suárez smiling much more pity.

Don Jerónimo
reddened by the faux pas just given.

He continues and ends at the
end, wishing, as eloquently assistant marina, which Sarrio awaken
to the life of progress, which comes out of the lethargy in which
it lies, and that somehow manifested in its enclosure the struggle
of ideas always fertile, and look at its horizon bright sun of civilization.