 

Choose the Catalans Governors, and requested the Duke of Athens offered napkins.

After the miserable case of Rocafort, and that he followed our army not only headless, but people
capable of so much weight, because so many government people, accustomed to obey famous Captains,
and aged under His command, evil whom it could provide not equal in value to the past, and noble
blood. Roger Flor was the one who first ruled, man, as he said, among all captains señaladísimo of
his time.

After Berenguer de Entenza illustrious by his blood, and exploits. Then Rocafort, famous for its
victories, and even without these in our field there were many gentlemen and captains of name,
that could fill the position, had all perished by the cruelty of Rocafort, who as rivals and
competitors to their always sought his ruin, because there is no reason to prevail a man when
passing through the preservation of one large, and the means available to adquirille and mantenelle,
does not notice if they are good, or bad, in exchange for dating
his claim.

Themselves together to elect the council head and they had given the
lack of them, resolved to appoint two men, a champion, and a Almugavar,
that by all four together, the twelve council govern the field.

With this government some time in Casandria entertained, to where they were ambassadors Count
of Brena, who succeeded in the Duchy of Athens for the death of Duke, the last descendant of
Boemundo, that I leave his state succession lacking the Count his cousin. Trax is Roger Deslau
ambassador, Sir Catalan, a native of Roussillon, which served as the Count. With this settled
the deal by offering part of their Lord, that whenever he should
come and serve would give them six months' pay in advance, and the
advantages mesmos had been in service Emperor Andronicus.

But we doubted much could go and napkins, but armed with that pass them, because ground seemed impossible,
having to go through so many provinces, and almost all enemies, rivers,
mountains, rough, and all this without having recognized.

With all these difficulties all concerts were signed, if at some time you were to serve.

They spent the next winter our people with a lack of supplies, and thus opening time, they tried
to abandon Casandria, and undertake to Thessalonica, head of the whole province to which was
the major force it, because it had by the way, won the City could be found with much certainty
the Catalans and Aragonese his empire on it, and achieve the greatest riches of the East, residing
there for Andronico wife Irene, and Mary wife his son Michael, with his court. These tips were
not so blind to the Emperor Andronicus, as previously thought, and then tried to guard, because
he knew the Catalans with imbalances for undertake great things,
and it seems impossible.

Captains sent experts to Macedonia, to lift people to defend the main cities.

He ordered that they be reflected in the fruits of all campaigns to ensure the damage that could
cause the lack of them, and dexar the enemy so that land could not be maintain what it was. Also
ordered that from Cristopol to Mount neighbor get up a wall to prevent the return of Thracia. This seemed
to the Emperor that would end the Catalans, if coming to blows with
them, this never wanted to venture, because I was as impossible to
defeat them with force and violence.

Was very close to sprout well these traces to Andronico if the value
of our people do not would make them vain and useless.

CHAPTER LXI.

Get the army of Casandria, and passed to Thesalia.

Casandria Dexaron ours to, and came with all its power around Thessaloniki, believing descuydo
to find it on the big and crowded city might have, but it was very different what is thought,
because sufficiency of provisions, and men of war, was on notice.

Tempted in attempting to brute force assaults, but the two empresses who were inside, assisted
the bravest captains of the Empire, fought the city, because Catalan,
recognizing such a gallant defense, dexaron the company, and staying
in villages more neighbors, ran the ground to seek a livelihood, but
as people saw it empty, and livestock, they suspected the trace of
the enemy they had not prevented.

Treated after splitting, because eight thousand men, captives, horses and baggage, were able
to support larger numbers, and live on what the enemy had forsaken to collect.

Seeing as the inevitable debris, stopped and determined to return
to the road Thracia that they brought to the coming, but warned of
a prisoner who pass was closed Cristopol with a wall, and enough people
to his defense, tuvieronse almost lost, because they believed Prevention
also that after this, the Macedonian, Thracian, and Lyria, and Acarnanes,
and those of Thessaly, all the surrounding peoples, they would rush
their forces together, or at least they defend the search for sustenance,
with the lack of which would inevitably perish.

The last need, as always happens, I did resolve to go through the whole Province of Macedonia,
and enter Thesalia, whose people lived without fear of their swords, because believed that
Macedonia, and the forces that had within it were impenetrable walls so that might offend the Catalans.
Just finished taking this advice when then he put into execution, because they could not prevent
Andronico, and so desando to Thessalonica, collecting all their forces, with incredible diligence,
because the enemy does not prevent their the entry of the mountains, walked through enemy towns,
taking from them only support Forced, because the fear of danger
was greater then than their greed, that by not stopping, not the army.

On the third day they reached the river bank of the penis, which runs between Mount Olympus and
Ossa, and water that amenísimo valley called Tempe, so celebrated in antiquity.

In the villages, and towns, banks of this river were housed, where guests of your gift, and moderation
of the sky, spent the harsh winter. Gave them the opportunity to rest having firm, flat torque
output Thessaly, and the abundance of supplies they found in the earth, some military people worked
before.

This vale of Tempe was so dear to the ancients, and by the softness and mildness of the air,
as the religion, and deities that they believed that living among those forests, and forests
and the river, which had a paradise, and own room of their gods.

Quando Greeks knew the way that the Catalans had taken little sure
not return, they refused to irritate, but the readiness of the way
was so that although they may not wish to pursue alcanzalles, and
left with new fears of people, whose industry and value exceeded all
their forces, and councils.

CHAPTER LXII.

Baxa the army of the Catalans to Thesalia, and concert dexan this province, and pass to that of Achay.

In
entering the spring, left the army to the valley and Baxo Thesalia, without enemy who opposed him,
to be made freely contribute most of their people living on the plain. Hallab then the Province subject
to a Prince of low capacity Irene married a bastard daughter of Emperor Andronicus. Was quarreling
with his father, because did not want to recognize the obedience owed to the Empire at this
time because that monarchy East of the Greeks was in its last decline, and most of the princes subjects
not admit it, because they saw no strength, and without them near the machine right is lost, that
restraint is given but the powerful. Thus the Roman Empire of the West has come to be in vain title
of his greatness, because Italy, France, Spain and England, that once paid him tribute, and received
his law, are free today because declined power, and he lost his right; The Goths and other
northern nations will reduxeron to this misery. After the Prince of Thessaly forces knew he had
in his State, and they were superior to theirs, with good advisers, and ministers faithful
who had reached what others could not with weapons, which was persuade him with gifts, and
supplications, which depart from their country, and so with a polite ambassador, after having fortified
some Cities, and put on defense because it was also occasion that the Catalans do not dexasen
certainty for doubt, ofrecieronles necessary supplies and faithful spies for Achay would lead
to, or to where they liked, and together they gave a lot of money because when the power is much
lower, you can not have the impairment of value, and reduce redeem
vexacion money to the suffering.

Governors were assembled, and Trustees of the army, and pondering the difficulties and dangers
that could happen to stay in the province, on trial for something useful and necessary support
parties, and walk on, because how much more they move towards noon, therefore came to have
about the relief of Sicily, and Spain. Responded to the ambassadors, They admitted that the
party, and that the business was closed, and then by the Prince gave them money, and victuals,
and they departed on a very timely manner day he offered to leave. This Thessaly was freed by
his industry great damage, and the Catalans with the same avoided them, because war is harmful
to all, and often the winner is different only in the name of the vanquished. The way that
our people were taken, was in the mountainous part of the Province
called the Blaquie Thesalia, which necessarily had to cross part of
it.

Quando Zurita referred to the way he did this army, received great deception, saying that the land
that became called Wallachia, because there came news that his province had Blaquie call that
because Montaner where he got the call Blaquier and ignoring Zurita
name, and addressed Montaner, called Wallachia, led by the similarity
of the name; but came to Wallachia not ours a hundred leagues.

The Blaquie to call which is, according to Nicetas in its history, the mountainous land of
Thessaly, which is fine with the way the Catalans did, and the name Montaner the flame. Natives
are called Blacas warlike people, and had many years oppressed to
the Eastern Emperors, and even today among the Turks retain its name
and value as who subjected to such barbaric and powerful people.

Montaner's not just expensive work that took this path of Blaquie because was provided with weapons
in hand, and fighting, so much resistance found in nature.

I understand that one of the largest companies were made in this expedition,
was the opening way through this world so full of people talk, and
brave.

At last they crossed spite yours, with universal admiration of those who knew the danger, with good
and faithful guides of Thessaly.

Thermopile spent close call, famous for the three hundred Spartans that Leonidas died defending
the pass to Xerxes, and freedom of Greece. From there to the shore baxaron Cephiso River, which
descends from Mount Parnassus, and runs towards the East, wishing to that part of North calls
peoples of the ancient Locrenses, opuntia, and Epiemenides, and at
noon Achay, and Boeotia.

This river comes up Lebadia and Haliartus, where it divides and loses its name and will move in Aesop,
and Ysmeno. Aesop runs through the province of Attica, until enters the sea.

Ysmeno set of Aulis Eupoyco empties into the sea, called today for
Negroponte.

For those neighbors Locrenses villages stayed our field to pass the
autumn and winter, and take resolution of what was to be done next
spring.

CHAPTER LXIII.

The Duke of Athens receives the Catalans.

So the Duke of Athens learned that the army of the Catalans had passed the mountains, and crossed
the Blaquier diligently sent their ambassadors to the heads of the
army, Princes fearing that other neighbors greeted the Catalans in
their service, because as militia was much esteem, all sought to have
it in their favor, and so it with great offers to pay, and wages advantaged,
they agreed to the promise he gave in Casandria of veins to serve
Quando he sent to Roger Deslau.

The Catalans oida the ambassador of the Duke, seemed more useful to their friendship than the
other Princes neighbors, and thus concluded deal with him, which
was the same who served the Emperor Andronicus.

With these new relief Duke got in Campaign to restore what his enemies
had busy state.

The most neighbor and powerful enemy was Angelo, Prince of Blacas and the Emperor Andronicus Greek
Prince hated that as the Latin name, and wanted done in his State
of the Duke, and to the other Frenchmen who followed him.

The despot of Larter, call the old Andracia, also pressed him with their weapons. Against those
of these three enemies who were powerful even split, the Duke began the war, and it was so happy
that not only suppressed rage and rigor of their enemies, and defended
their state, but also took thirty forces that had usurped.

Recently tried and concluded peace with everyone, but became very
advantaged by the Duke.

All events of this war that the Catalans had with the enemy the Duke, no historian to refer but
only wholesale, nor has it been remembered or any role where they
could get something that illustrates these events, which were undoubtedly
remarkable, because the enemies were made that powerful in numbers
and value.

Great misfortune of our nation, which has buried quietly memorable incidents that could perpetuate
their esteem in the coming centuries.

CHAPTER LXIV.

Dismiss the Duke with great ingratitude to the Catalans had served him without wanting to pay,
with that one and the other is to prevent war.

Then Duke saw the absolute master of his peaceful state, did not try
to keep his word, paying what they had offered to ours Quando called
his service, but rather treating them low esteem, he was plotting
his downfall, something apparently impossible, so forget noted recent
benefit was reinstated as a state so powerful and suppress enemies.

Strangely admired this novel, and moving to the Catalans and Aragonese, who expected hand thenceforward
live with honor and comfort, for as the Duke will be raised in Sicily in the castle of Agosta,
showed a taste for Catalan, and spoke their language as if his natural and proper.

Were suspended from seeing him, so exchanged, when they ran more items and obligations. The trace which
took the Duke to get rid of people descomodidades could cause war in its peaceful state, was
as follows.

Culled from our army two hundred soldiers on horseback the most service
and parts and three hundred foot, and distributed among them some
farms with sick moderation throughout your state.

These were thrilled, and others also hope that the Duke had to use the same liberality with them.
But as they thought they had fulfilled their hopes, the Duke commanded that within a short time
were to come out of their State, and that when you do not obey to treat them as rebels and
enemies.

Ours, though confused and disturbed as little coup prevented, with courage and determination they
used to, they replied that they would obey with pleasure if they
paid the salary that they should, because he had served so well, and
six months in advance that offered Quando came to his service, that
this money could reach vaxeles to return to his country safe but poorly
paid.

Duke replied to this with much pride, and with such disregard for past service and said that they
were in his presence, and to depart from his land, he or they ought,
nor their I wanted to pay what they asked so shameless, that getting
ready after his departure, if not wanted to be dead or captive.

This response forced to ours, to identify rather die than leave their land without give them
full satisfaction. They made knowing this resolution, and meanwhile seized some important posts,
to where people although they helped to sustain strength.

After the Duke knew he wanted to defend the Catalans are made large joints of people thus natural,
as strangers, to drive them by force of its state, be able to do with less expense, less risk,
less note of ingratitude, if I dismiss them the had paid so well deserved.

At last he resolved done by force, and assembled a powerful army that it our short unequal power
because of Athenians, Thebanos, La Plata, Locrenses, Tocenses, and Magarenses, and eight hundred
French horse, came to have six thousand four hundred horses and eight thousand foot, but Montaner
want them to be much more, but in this case I found continue to Nicephore who writes vaguely sick,
and could have more news to be Montaner closer than that and was
not present at this conference, and the Greek is quite neutral Quando
not write the events of his nation, but of the strange.

The two hundred horses, and three hundred foot, whom the Duke had given the estate was said
watching danger of his comrade, and believing that there was also the same rigor of executing in them,
they went to Duke, and they told him, and understand that this army who had together was for against
their peers and friends, and that if this was so true, they would renounce the estates which
gave them, for he had better luck die defending his men, who enjoy wealth in peace, killing them.

The Duke assured of its forces, which were so superior to ours, they responded with words so
heavy and so full of a thousand insults and affronts, that when so
determined not to come depart from their service, their response is
only obliged to seek revenge.

Words all men have to be very measured, and more on the Prince, because of the rudeness can not
wait but hatred, and sometimes I wish more care and satisfaction and revenge.

Words just indignation cause broken even in the most humble. Courtesy is loop with hearts that
are caught and used with the enemies is usually a means to soften the largest force of his fury.

This is were the five hundred to join with the other Catalan, and Aragonese, and were advised
of the final resolution of the Duke, who says Nicephore, who was
so arrogant and proud, under His hand looking so lucid and so people
who were older and their plans to destroy to the Catalans, for this
he meant to do in passing, and then go into the provinces Empire,
by a cruel and bloody war to get to Constantinople.

But all these traces interrupted God in the beginning, because the smug confidence of himself
never accomplished.

CHAPTER LXV.

Catalans victory against the Duke of Athens, and his death, with the
Catalan possession of those states, and put an end to his pilgrimage.

The Catalans and Aragonese after they learned that the Duke came marching
with the entire field the back of their seats, did the other times,
when they were forced from need that the remedy was put in just its
value.

Determined meet him, but had been fighting with so much inequality.

They were in our army, of all three nations, three thousand and five hundred horses, and four
thousand infantry, when their quarterings dexaron to go forth to meet the Duke.

Came to stay the first day in a meadow where going through a big ditch, were offered a ruse
to ruin important trace of the enemy. The grass of the meadows was grown an inch high, enough
to cover the ground.

Bogged down those neighboring fields, where the cavalry had tried to their first attack. For
his dexaron some dry, so that when it was necessary could go out and skirmish at spandrels and firm;
befell either the trace, because the Duke The next day came with the whole army, so powerful, it
was occasion, his neglect to notice the wiles of the enemy, and it
seemed that only the brilliance of their weapons and finery enough
to humiliate their enemies.

In finding to ours ordered their troops, and because had greater confidence in the cavalry,
put all in front, and he himself with a troop two hundred French knights, and the most lucid of the
province, took the vanguard.

Our people, while the Duke was preparing
for battle, wanted to do the same mixing the squadron and the Turkish
troops and Turkish Greeks in hers, but they dropped out he was saying,
they did not want to fight, impossible as it had come against Duke
the Catalans, who had been so well served, but must be drawn with
the wanted to destroy them as people of different religion.

There
were troubled Catalan, and Aragonese in the resolution of the Turks,
although the brevity could not disabuse them, nor would they refuse
to fight, before they left with more courage skirmishes, and prime
the enemy to come to seek his own death