 Blessed and praised be His
divine will, even that with which we are overwhelmed and beleaguered humanity! As yet I was
strictly old and I felt strong, and in these narrows and roughness of the soil abundant grass
and comfort were the short ambitions of my mind, I learned to drag bravely the cross of my
pains, and I even managed to forget, time walk, that had in tow, come on, I became a burden, and
came to be men of good content and attached to the motherland as the ivy to morio. From time
to time we wrote my brother and I, and thus did he know my fortunes and misfortunes, I'm your
birth and your sister, then this marriage of a rich American who took their land, the death
of your mother and the paths that wouldst with books from the classroom, and making it as
going esponjándote man.

"Once your card at fault gave more than usual, which was very little, and the first I had at the
end of the month was yours and tell me that your father had died of a sunstroke bitter, or something
of this art. Absent your sister and full of family and property in the other band, were left alone
in here, and aticuenta in the world, although the means of fortune to brace it at your leisure.
Like me, except the comparison of people and places. I offered with this mine, suspicious
lot, truth be told, that I wanted the stake, done with all my heart, because conjecture your
way of life and knew your picture by Pictures I'd been sending. Neither the one nor the other
was rigged well poverty and rustiquez of these parts, it seemed to me. And it would not seem
out of the way, because that was your answer, well rooted out its niceties and courtesies. Since
then was pears for pound the letters between us. You run the mint and Mecca, and I grabbed
firm these rocky hills, as montuna fence. And so we've been pulling so beautiful: you not remember
twice a year the saint of my name and I no hurry for it something more, because while I had health,
I joy, and in light of how well she was accompanied by live among these people and these cliffs
and even their beasts, and I seemed to see and feel them strength, flesh from my bones and blood
of my own veins.