 With
this decision I have tackled, if not all, much of the injustice they were doing, and I have
a regular shape the economic governance of the peoples and the harmony that should be between
the mayor, council and manager of each establishment.

I tried all my attempted to encourage agriculture and industry, encouraging them to my exhortations
and advice, and for which applied more effort, increased the ration of meat to them was a third
more, and so I managed not to be applied rigorously to work, and seeing Pay all debts, and increased
cattle on farms, which at present have about 80,000 head more than you had my income, and proportion
is to increase the boyadas, mares, foals, horses, mules and sheep, not being less known advantage
in chacarería. Have increased the cotton, planted reeds repaired yerbales and improved in all branches
of agriculture have also sought new homes are built among all peoples, and that the consequences
of which had, as well as churches and main houses. Although this has not advanced as much as I wanted,
because the lack of construction workers as prevented, it has been so little has been done
is not known quite unlike now as they were before. But, to have achieved these advancements,
I have had to be go at least every two months, all peoples, see their mills and chacarería, improve
what was not as needed, to establish what it considered useful to encourage the Indians and
not forgive diligence and fatigue as deemed appropriate to the achievement of overtaking.
Up the same rooms I visited, however to be very separate peoples (some far more than 40 leagues)
I recognized all its land, people, places, rodeos, pens, status of their livestock, tools of
the workmen and, finally, the knowledge can lead to Practical them remedied many abuses and other faults
I found, leaving established with advice from two foremen and experience working as thought
it might be useful to increase and good cattle, and success has been matched according to my
wishes.

Seeing that one of the main causes that mattered to the gloom in which they lived these was natural
indecency and filth with which they treated in their homes, ensure that both magistrates decent rooms
were available to them, giving them to understand what I would like to find them them and their women
with decency whenever I visited them that would be often. After Every year I set aseasen and
repair their homes inside and out all of cabildo, and so people are being improved and used
to live with decency.

For the toilet of their home accounts for its people, how they tried to persuade I would be
pleased to see that instead of tipoy, they used their women wear shirts, skirts or petticoats,
even if they are cotton canvas, and bodices or adjusters who girt his body and hide their breasts,
and that they performed more grooming would be treated for me, and would do were all more distinction.
At this point there was something to overcome, because the Indians concerned with equality that had
grown up, did not allow any stood out from the others, but at last they have been desimpresionado
this error, and toilet are introduced with no overtaking small.

As things that try to not get the desired success if command or persuade them not accompanied by the
practice of some events in which the experience aware of the favorable effects and conveniences
offered to him, so of course knew these natives what they had to follow the toilet, I ordered
that houses the main in the magistrate, or those of other Indian leaders, they are not prevented
the coupling to have their home entertainment when there is a reasonable reason and decency
and order regular, which I attended quite a few times with my wife and I always attend such
managers and their wives, so I managed to banish the hateful separation had between Spanish and
Indians, establishing treatment and mutual communication, not only as on these occasions, but
also in every day of the year that we visit with each other Spanish men and all the families
in whom shines the toilet, and this is a powerful incentive to encourage
more and more each day, as is experiencing.

Considering how few of these natural proportions have to get some overtaking, because they
lack the means to benefit through the sale, the fruits that can be purchased with their work, and
that failure to provide this benefit would be futile my efforts and Orders, I ordered that all
the fruit they collect in their particular fields and want to sell to the community, have to buy
the very, paying cash value in those fruits and effects they want or the people have, making
it necessary to book for food that year. They must also buy full price for anything that have
acquired their industry, for prices that I mentioned in a tariff
that formed for the effect.

This ruling has had favorable effects in only two years that have acquired practical many Indians a
regular conveniences, many families have been neat and tidy and not ashamed to appear before
all sorts of people, with whose company are becoming sociable and acquiring a perfect civility
prevail in all abundance, and every day is over, for the example of a stimulus serves others.
You've seen it, and so has seen the Governor Governor of this province,
and so I have no fear that seems you more expensive born of self-esteem.

Although

the common view is taken these natives as lazy and unable to poderles instill a desire to escape
poverty and despondency that are, similar to those and believe it is natural for them this neglect,
I've never been persuaded to this view. I will not deny that the mood and food can have some influence
on the strength and disposition the body and make it more or less active according to their
qualities, and more can influence, my opinion, the education, which are printed in the mind
the ideas that shape their operations, but always deny that they are unable to overcome some
hindrances, such as many think. Will agree, yes, that was hard, but that is impossible.

By repeated experiences I have known that the Guarani Indians are not as lazy as the mean, not
even noticing they must be lazy. The town of Candelaria goes to work that of Santa Maria Maggiore
four sawyers Indians, not Indians have this job in Santa Maria, to whom it was said of two
real wages each day, one for the community of its people and the other for them in that people
working from sunrise to sunset very happy for the wages they knew they were winning. If you
have arrived to dismiss two of them, have already learned to saw other Santa Maria, none of
the four wanted to be fired, everyone wanted to continue, without flinching from the hard work
of the saw, and they caused much feeling when they were fired. The same happened with those
who have worked calafates ships in San Jose, and finally, how these terms are used in work with
pleasure and commitment.

All Spanish employees in the villages have one or more Indians who serve them without giving them
more wages than food, clothing and some short realillo. And with only this very specific and efficient
servants, without ever excuse what they're told, even trabajosísima execution, and the greatest
punishment that can be given to these servants is to dismiss because is something that costs a lot
of feeling.

Any Indian who offered a short interest is ready to send whatever they want, provide care themselves,
and seeking to be preferred to others; So these are not procedures
lazy, because if they were, no interest will move to work.

Everywhere that the Indians occupy Tapes are very good paying wage
laborers, as experienced in the city of Buenos Aires and in all of
Spanish, who prefer other laborers, so the not being applied here
is because they lack the incentive of pay.

They are also noted thieves, and they do all they can steal, but it forces them the need, they crave
whatever they see, and more so there is within villages and as they wish and are not buying it, and
even if they had they would find who sold it, knowing no other way to buy, steal, if they find time.
Well is that it is not so general this defect, which not conceive infamy, perhaps because this
year he was punished for theft, do the next mayor. I discover this defect in the Indians a
willingness to civilize and make time-consuming, because once you covet brilliant, if they provided
it can be purchased at the cost of work apply hard, which does not
happen if they were looking things with indifference.

To complete this regard I refer to here as the government's particular
political and economics of these natural, according to the generality
with which it is practiced in these villages to you come more aware
of the lights, genius and habit of all.

Each village has a council composed of a mayor, deputy mayor, two mayors, four aldermen, a mayor of
brotherhood, a sheriff, a butler and a secretary, those who choose the New Year's Day, according
to the provisions in laws, with the exception of Mayor and lieutenant, who have no time. Elections
do them together eight or more days in advance, and each chapter offers an Indian to occupy
the job he exercised consultation before the will of the mayor and the administrator, which
are major in this machine rolling. While all chords, lead the list of those who think naming
the administrator, which, if you please, tell them do so, and if any of the mentioned have any blemish,
or does not like the manager, tells them that they ought not, and to indicate other than perhaps the
manager tells them, or privately hinted to the sheriff, and well done. In addition to the jobs of
council members, has designated next year all jobs military, the keepers of the chores and
head teachers of all trades and arts, so that in every village passed 80 and even 100 those who
hold offices, and if the people is short, all become mandarins, and there are few who rule.
Recent jobs Exclusively playing the sheriff the name, but he always does with the consent of the administrator,
particularly those whose occupation is the care of community assets.

Prepared lists and chords all come together on New Year's Day, early morning, and to touch cash
being published on the doors of the house of the appointed council, whose act attends all the
local people, some by curiosity, others to receive in their jobs, to take possession immediately,
without waiting for confirmation from the government. They deliver rods and sticks to the mayor
and other council members re-appointed, and officers corresponding military insignia, thence go to
Mass, and then home administrator to be present, which charges them fulfilling their obligation, and
if not already extended the agreement of the elections, extends, and signed by the voters, they
always say all with one accord and a plurality of votes have been chosen and appointed to the
content, refer to governor of the province for approval, and for other jobs that are not town
hall simply the approval of the Lieutenant Governor of the department.

Every

day of the year, at dawn, and are together all the council members at the door of magistrate,
whose runners have a bench or seat in the meantime they feel it is time going to Mass, which
is always early. The mayors have their sticks, batons and policy makers, they rarely release the hands,
and finished the first Mass is going to care door of the priest's room, to greet and take you,
and from there go to administrator, who warns them what they have to do that day and fired,
van together to the house of the mayor, and his door determine the distribution of people,
and others corresponds to the mine. Meanwhile it's time to go to work, which is always late grievances
and demands heard there, which are almost always missing work, theft, concubinage and gossip with
each other. If the accuser is lobbyists, or is responsible for care something, they bring to India
and Indian prisoner accused, and with little consideration send him flogged, as they see fit.
Well you never can spend their punishment of 50 lashes that this government allows them, reserving
the punishment of felonies to understand its causes and judgments, except the capitals, or others
who deserve punishment on criminals, who dispatched to Buenos Aires with the summary. For the
executors of prisons and punishment called sergeants, and they never fail to hand the halberd,
and the scourge bring it tight to the body to be instantly ready to send him. Regularly hear cases
all lobbyists, together with the mayor and mayors, but in the tasks and work any the council,
he is but alderman him beaten with a missing or commits other defect.

From the time of the Jesuits have the custom, and still see punctual,
which, in ending of whipping criminals, have to lift the soil, where
they seek, and will humbly before him who sent them to punish, and
give the thanks Had they been corrected his faults.

If one ignores this requirement will take care of it, test and having it for pride, send it
again whip who humbles himself like or unwilling.

Always ensures that prison inmates do not stop, but those processed by capital crimes, or those
who drop out frequently and the other the penalty is applied, after the crime is justified,
and set free because prisons are unsafe and those who are responsible
too careless, and so often they are prisoners without sufficient to
punish caregivers.

They let them go out alone to their needs, are to mass, even the murderers, so that will not
be those who will not.

Daily feature classic and dress up with dresses that have the people for these functions. Vístense
also military officers with their own, and many others dress and accompanying form, that among
these are some expensive clothes, but they ridicule that serves to
embellish.

In the town where he attended the Governor or any Lieutenant Governor to attend every room,
accompanied by return to church in every ceremony, but being alone have little formality. Whenever
they go together platoon, or rather in a row, before the mayor, who is the deputy mayors,
and in turn others, the latter being the least degree. In church sit in seats; regularly divided
into two bands, although some people feel all of chapter in a single seat, and the deputy sheriff
with the rank military officers post, but the chiefs, who were to be preferred, have no designated
place, or thing The distinction, if not for having a job, take the place that he touched.

The
governor of the people they put in the church chair, rug and pillow, and was saved by priests have
all privileges that the laws are kept governors Timekeeping day, and attending other people's
religious. It gives peace a priest stole, and other holidays a neat band acolyte, we can observe
with lieutenant governors, when you're not the governor, by order of His Excellency Don Francisco
Bucareli, although the governors have patronized Lt. allowed another
chair was immediately put his own, when it is a Lieutenant where he
is.

Guess is that because, as the Indians are so rude, do not think is slight that they do, or the
lieutenant, in the absence of the governor, that usurps honor, in short, and it is practiced.
In the councils of peace gives an acolyte, and the priest gives holy water at the door of
the church on more traditional, but the governor all holidays.

The days of King's birthday, those of his real name, and those in which celebrating a happiness
of the monarchy or the royal family since the day before tomorrow gets the Cabildo in ceremony,
removed from the council houses of the four flags of each town, two with real guns and two with
cross of Burgundy, and other military insignia, which are four spades long five or six yards,
and very thin, small sunfish on the tips and some small colored feathers, put in order and
distribution in parts of these, four horsemen of the old-fashioned, and some sticks, some in
stock form, and others with metal shield or steel cuffs.

From ten o'clock start giving several turns in order, to touch or sound boxes, the square, some
on foot and horseback, to assemble several skirmishes and tournaments, until midnight, at which
time the festival is announced with pealing bells and a few shots of Camaret, whose signal
attend all the people at the door of the church, whose porch is attached the real picture
on the side for the gospel in a drawer, interior doors and curtains, and next opposite are the royal
arms painted on the wall or canvas. Together all the music complete, open the drawer and discover
the real picture repeating several times: "Viva el Rey, Our Lord, Don Carlos III ", and put
a guard with flags, and two effective sentinel before the real picture. In the afternoon vespers
are sung with great solemnity, efforts are required in this is not some religious priests,
and then return to the skirmishes in the meantime have some dances or dances of boys, who marvel
at the order and rhythm to keep, even if so young that fail to eight years. The dances they
use are ancient or foreign; I have not seen similar dances in Spain, or public amusements
of some peoples or those used in the octave of Corpus Christi day. Now some are introduced
modern contradanzas English, Valencian dances and other dances that use the Spanish. These guys
dancers adorn dresses by the way, with wreaths and garlands that are attractive dances, there
are some that are made up of 24 dancers, who are several links, and even letters with the name you
want.

Between dance and dance play games or snacks, in their language called decline, all of its invention,
and some of them seem quite artificial and grace to the principles but who can not complete them
properly, the more the end to beatings and whippings, which held with much laughter the bystanders.

As
the sun reserves the real picture with the ceremonies and cheers to that view, and at night they
put lights and cookers are assembled in the square, and repeated the dance as afternoon. The next
day at sunrise, turns to discover the real picture on the as such, which remains open all day.
At the usual hour, and given the ringing of bells, get together all the people in the church, which
is sung Mass and Te Deum with great solemnity, and then continue
in the square, horse racing contour in which, divided into four teams,
the Indians make many changes or figures the old fashioned way, all
at the touch of many boxes and trumpets, and with great clamor and
noise of large bells, that have covered the harnesses and halters
for horses, whose ornament and grandeur.
