 I do not
think that neither the climate nor the soil, or fertility, or the exuberance of nature and
its products are or have been among us as in India and in ancient Egypt, nor are could never produce
similar effects.

They say other thinkers, who think little, that all our evil comes from the bad governments.
This statement is unworthy of refutation. No country, not to be under the yoke of tyranny invincible,
has more government than they give and deserve. How much is strongest in Spain, more enlightened,
more discreet, and has ruled. Just be a man left note in every game that has not been minister.
If they are all unfit, strength is conjecture that Spain does not
anymore.

No lack of people our backwardness attributed to any love to the welfare and luxury to we are
happy and satisfied to live badly, and not feeling the sting of desire for enjoyment, we chose
not to work. This reasoning is absurd for the falsity of the premise on which is based. All men,
and peculiarly the Spanish, except for some fancy, prefer eating foie gras and truffles to eat
turkey and scrambled chanfaina, rich dress and velvet drapes, to wear cloth, living in a palace,
to live in a hut, and going by car, go on foot. It is not an occult science to know that there
are cars, good cuisine and excellent dishes, fabrics silk, gold and precious stones, and many
other delightful objects, nor is it necessary to have a very soul
lifted to covet. No one not ambitions.

If you desire, desire to be rich, wealth depended, Spain is one of the world's richest nations.

It
follows therefore that we do not know why poor Spain, unless we claim, and this I I lean, who
are poor quality opposite to that just mentioned: the love of luxury, extravagance, by disorder,
because we are very lavish indiscreetly and generous, and above all, because we do not spend and spend
without discretion and without splendor.

Suffer from this defect and have traditionally suffered in Spain for individuals and the state.

At
the time of Philip II, when we were at the peak of prosperity, when
dominábamos and despojábamos many regions where

The land yielded
their miners us, His pearls and coral Ocean;

Campanella was astounded
that so much wealth is dissipated without knowing how, and we're always
without real and borrowing.

    "Est, said, admiration dignum, so
    divitiarum consumatur quomodo vis, Ullo sine emolument, cum fere
videamus Regem laborare perpetual destitution, atque etiam ab mutual
ALIIS accipere.

"The same thing happened then between individuals in the State.