 

"If I shall have been light, watermelon and quirky? If I will have been in love monk, who believed
in me but not innocent and simple with paternal affection? ".

To ponder and doña Luz was filled with shame and trembling like a
restless and angry with itself, judging criminal, crazy and even unfaithful.

While

this was happening in the spirit of Dona Luz, Don Acisclo divided among his children or saved
for themselves the few poor articles that Father had left, and that more had to keep as sacred
memory by asserting that they had little.

D. In this partition reserved Dona Luz Acisclo for the few books that the priest had.

D. Do not know Acisclo that the father was writing a play and even thought it might Giving the picture,
although it had been incomplete. Sought, therefore, the manuscript, he found, and considering
that the only people capable of understanding in place what he called D. was a rant Anselmo
and Dona Luz, and D. Anselmo for being wicked are not so well appreciated the gibberish as
Doña Luz, who was a believer, do not hesitate to take the manuscript
to Dona Luz without even opening your pages, because it interfered
with the black, as accounts that were not He reaches out and winning
their favor.

Luz reverently received the manuscript of the Father, and not well D. Acisclo left alone opened
with eager curiosity and began to read.

In his impatience was browsing and ran all the pages, devouring its contents on the fly, trying
to understand the set, leaving for then read everything carefully.

A bit of browsing, gave Dona Luz with sheets. His eye fell on them. The heart he said something
very interesting enclosed.

Then read them pause, with interruptions, with very frequent interruptions because tears welled
in his eyes and blinded and not consented to read.

In each of these inevitable interruptions, in a low voice as if afraid of being heard, with words
broken by sobs, exclaimed Dona Luz:

- It was true. It was true. I loved my God! How much, how much I loved him!

At last, beyond and after what we know, the day before his death, Fr Enrique had written the
following, who also read Dona Luz:

"These pages, unless the trait or burned, they will invariably, after I die, to the beautiful
hands of it. And then not be ashamed that she knows my love. Sorry, My God, my new fault. I
want her to know him. What may disturb the happiness to know and
the peace of his noble life?

She has loved me, she loves me like an angel loves a saint and I I have loved as a man loves
a woman. I would be hypocritical if you do not deserve to reveal angelic love, that I loved as
loves a sinner. It is necessary for my eternal repose I forgive her for having become the balm
and poison innocent affection incentive vicious having fed the pure
light of his eyes this fire of hell to me it burns clean and stain
its image is engraved in the soul.

In spite of you, God mine, in spite of you and against yours, I recorded
with indelible traits.

All the verve my will, all the strength of heaven, all the pains
of hell will not boot from there.

Doña Luz and love of Dona Luz live immortal life in my spirit. "

After reading, Dona Luz pain became more acute, more tears came abundant in their eyes, the
sobs seemed likely to drown, but it looks like the iris between black clouds, a sweet smile of
triumph and gratitude for that love, forgiveness only requested,
shone in the fresh red lips of the gentle lady.

-XIX-

Embassy D.
Gregorio

The sadness of Dona Luz, after a few days, was more sweet
than bitter, but not left from being sadness was tempered by the satisfaction
he felt to have inspired Dona Luz so lively sympathy for the statement
made by the same Father, that she was not coquette, and the acquittal,
she herself was, after making an examination of conscience very rigorous.

Luz

was not his fault that he was grateful that love, or death that he regretted.

Their friendship, admiration and reverence to the Father could not have been higher.

If the Father had inspired a more lively sense, she had sinned against God, against the world,
against his honor and against decency.

Instead, his love for D. Jaime was legitimate, correct, according to class and her position,
and founded, finally, in cases not less than the love poetry by Fr Henry, if he been lawful,
it would have felt.

In order to strengthen and magnify the poetic causes her concern D. Jaime, Dona Luz considered very
high in D. Jaime to her. His selflessness was evident. He had found a hundred best games in Madrid.
Easily have been titled and women income, a little that would have looked. Don Jaime was without
doubt the most disdained by her brilliant weddings. After Don Jaime adored. AND D. Jaime, elegant,
noble family, full of the future, and honored and respected as a skilled captain and brave soldier,
could be proud any woman who would give his name and his hand.

D. Jaime also was young, handsome and arrogant figure, discreet and friendly. The letters he wrote
from Madrid showed Dona Luz While his love of the tender and loving, and his wit and jokes, so well
written and thanks and sets containing.

Doña Luz, then, in view of the foregoing, agreed with herself that
was very much in love of her husband, who had reason to be and to
have married him, and that their friendly tender for the Father and
the tears that poured over his death, and even kisses him given order
were so different, that in no way opposed or altered or modified in
a apex, or loosened at one point the bond of love and marriage that
D. Jaime the linking.

Missing a few days and to D. Jaime came back for her. He had already
taken home by the way, and almost had furnished.

He had already taken the title. Since both spouses could be called the Villafría Marquis. D. Jaime
would come within that same week, and it was Wednesday.

Luz was in her room, had just returned from Mass, and had prayed fervently
for the soul Fr Henry, in whom continuous and tender and melancholy
thought, when he entered Juana the damsel, and said:

- Madam, a stranger
wants to talk to your honor.

- Your name?

- Don Gregorio Salinas.

-
Do not know.

What is fascist?

- More good than bad.

Comes very decently dressed, but on the road.

It is known that just arrived.

It's tiny, plump, red as a beet, and smiles as if happy. It is, however, in mourning.

- Look, Jane, I have no desire to receive visitors.

Tell me a headache, which again again if you have something important to say, now do not get.

Jane
went for the message, and came right back with a letter placed in
the hands of Doña Luz.

- Don Gregorio Salinas - Juana said - I just
submitted this letter, ensuring that it will be admitted in your honor
to read.

Said that the letter is his credential.

Luz no sooner took the letter and looked at the envelope, he was amazed.

Recognized the handwriting of his father.

He opened it hastily, and looked at the signature. It was from his
father.

Then read the date and saw that the letter was written more than fifteen years.

The letter was terse. Contained only these words:

"Dear Daughter: The bearer of this letter will be Don Gregorio Salinas,
clerk of Madrid, person all my confidence.

Gives full credit to everything I say, listen to him and Send her away, and accept and receive
without scruple what you offer and give. "

- What happens later this gentleman - "Dona Luz.

Jane went to fetch, and D. Gregory went into the living room was that Dona Luz.

After the usual compliments, sitting Dona Luz and hitherto unknown guests in comfortable armchairs,
spoke it, with rest and as one who has much to say, the follows:

- You know your honor that my name is Gregorio Salinas. Now I am a notary and I'm not real bad fortune.
Twenty-eight years ago I was a poor student without a penny in his pocket; but, instead, nor
was fat, had no gray hair, or bald, or wrinkles, and people claimed,
Your Lordship will forgive the immodesty that I remember, that I was
a nice guy, smart and funny.

No wonder, therefore, that I fell in love with a woman of outstanding merit of my Joaquina.
This is my wife Joaquina, to serve your ladyship. He loves your honor and sends me a thousand
respectful and loving expressions.

- Thank you - "Dona Luz, interrupting
Don Gregorio -.

V. Let treatment and call me you, and also forgive me if I tell you
frankly that lighten your mind because I'm dying curiosity.

- Have
V. calm, my lady, have V. calm.

I promise not to be tedious or annoying. Go to the point. Do not think that anything I say
is to smoke with straw. All you need to that V. knowing.

- Come, follow you, and you will again forgive my interruption.

- Well, as I was saying - continued D. Greg - my wife is now a fresh
matronaza and still nice weekend, although the years do not go in
vain.

Five children have given me about five soles.

All orders are V., my lady.

At that time, when the courtship Joaquina was my one girl for the elite, who moved to Madrid, and
served as maid to some of the most haughty woman whose Privanza was
completely and all its secrets most intimate possession.

- What was
it called that lady?

- The Exma.

Ms. Countess of Fajalauza.

Doña Luz, as one hears a first name ringing in their ears, shrugged and stopped. D. Gregory continued:

-
Much should my wife and I to this lady. She married us, she protected us and she us given the
means by which to reach the point of comfort and prosperity we have come. God bless and increase
it to glory. Well worth it, because, after all, if some fault committed, in this naughty world
was his purgatory. The Countess was married to Mr. more that has known terrible today. All
trembling, starting with his wife. There had several sets of the callers of honor, and weighed
three deaths and several injuries on his conscience. He had a reputation as skilled, which
is believed capable of killing with a pistol pass a mosquito flying at fifty yards away, and
through a stab the devil himself who might set up a quarrel with him. Add to this that the
Count was jealous as a Turk, not because they loved much to the Countess,
but for other reasons.

The poor Countess had not given him any for eight years of marriage. This lady was a saint,
very suffered very cautious and very good Christian.

Luz began to show visible signs of interest in the narrative. Don Gregorio continued saying

-
The Countess brought into the marriage substantial assets. Gossips have been in that propagate
Count, to marry her, but took no account of your business. No love. The Countess almost married
girl, excited to do so by his mother, and without understanding all
the importance of that step.

Shortly after his mother died, and the orphan, no siblings or close relatives, was alone in
the world, face to face with that tyrant, that more should be called so that no husband and companion.

Countess
had no reason to love or respect her husband, but he loved cleaning of his fame, and fear God
and revered religious and moral precepts. Nothing, as I said, had to censor it in the first
eight years of marriage. Lived resigned as a martyr.

Did not even have the comfort and shelter with other women to establish their maternal heart to
love. The damn link was sterile. The counts of Fajalauza had no children.

An issue of great interest at that time claimed the presence of the Count in Lima. Not appropriate
Case trust anyone and there was that mattered arch-respectable sum.

The Countess was very ill health and could not accompany her husband in such a long voyage. The Count,
after much hesitation, decided to go alone. So he went and visited Peru about a year and a
half.

During the absence of Earl Countess was not presented at meetings or in theaters; lived enough
withdrawal, but not without suitors suitors and seek to seduce her. The Countess spurned them
all. There was one, however, endowed with such rare, bright clothing, so in love or pretending
so beautifully that I was, so delicate, handsome and seductive who
happened to captivate the soul of the unhappy Countess.

Contributed greatly to this result, as always, the conqueror's fame had already beau. Nothing
can be both with consider women as the one that seeks to despise
for their love of other women trendy, young, beautiful, rich and distinguished.

In

addition, and inasmuch as it is, the Countess loved the gallant, and such was his passion that
is left overcome despite their severe principles.

These relations were shrouded in impenetrable mystery. Joaquina was just my news of them. The
Countess was a unique woman.

Swept away by the irresistible violence of his affection, he saw his friend alone, and then cried
like Mary Magdalene, pray, loathed of itself as if it is deemed to
be most abject and vile, and even despair that God forgiveness.

In this spiritual fray, between guilt and repentance, was her until she turned her husband.

The secret was such that no one had said or the least suspected.

The Count, nevertheless, was suspicious and jealous, and suspected something from the day of his
return. Perhaps the excitement of his wife's disgust when she exchanged the chill with that before greeted
him, some words, some sighs, some ay! whistleblower who heard him in a dream, enough to put on
the track.

One night while he slept the countess, her husband took over the key to your desktop Women and
carefully recorded as it contained. The Countess had been rash to keep the first letters he
wrote her lover and the Count could read them. For this, these letters did not prove the full complicity
of the Countess.

She could even if any preserved not for love of who wrote them, but by vanity and testimony have
been so beloved. The letters were enough, however, that the Count had appalling scenes with his
wife. If the cards he had proven his guilt would have killed the Count. As letters were only
an indication, the Count was limited to haunt his wife and distrust it and watched. With a plausible
excuse was brought to live at home with a spinster sister I had,
which was a fury of hell.

This woman has since been the spy, the accompanying the owner, the black shadow of the Countess.

As
the leading man, whose name he discovered the count for the letters,
the letters also cost him faces.

The Count, in order for anyone to know and to try to inquire the reason, he sought the gallant and forced
him to fight with him to the sword, without any of the procedures and formalities of mourning. The
actor was mortally wounded in his own house, and only a miracle could
Surgery save lives.

- I knew that my father's release - said Dona
Luz - but did not know who was his opponent and the Because of the
set. V. continue, Mr. D. Gregorio.

- Since we know V. Beau was the
marquis, his father V., appointing him continue this story with your
name. If a sentence is beyond me that can hurt, even slightly, memory
Mr. Marquis, I to V. since then a million excuses