 Everyone has a desire to be a bit sharp, a little funny and a little naughty in front
of people, hence the follies and inconveniences, and almost anyone it happens to be sincere,
which, good education and a dash of common sense, have no guarantee of becoming "evil" there
or anywhere, it is not loose at the time warranty essentially communicative reach. For full sincerity,
and at its highest degree, together with a good understanding, was the first thing which I
took to see in the mediquillo of Tablanca.

Speaking of the illness of my uncle told me it was fatal. Was ... (And here laughing stopped to
ask forgiveness for the words she was going to drop) in a dilation heart ... asystolic state ...

-
In current Castilian - added with a gesture and a very natural and
expressive gesture - is the old machine whose body begins to decompose.

It hindered the wheel of the heart could be impeded as another major. For some of them had to
start the inevitable ruin. When consumed it, when the machine stops, it is not possible to
calculate a date fixed either by me or by those who know of these things I do: the same can stand
inside six months at the moment. What is certain is that there is no time machine.

Although it was well persuaded me, confirming my suspicions as authorized
by lips I was a very painful effect.

Apart from the blood ties that bound me to Don Celso, personal qualities in him that made him very sticky
to the affection of those who treated him.

Speaking of his illness, he sought other similar and many others, without seeming to them,
had, however, the same dismal outcome: death of the patient, and already this way, we ended the
proverbial "discouraged" by the learned in the "healing art" as collate and compare the resources
of his science with the miserable man's physical condition; only that the boy that, in agreeing
with me on the ineffectiveness of medicine in most cases of hardship, not her hands to her head,
or reneged on the human capacity, nor was any hope that they would go and slowly fixing these
problems' heroes and the martyrs of science "on the contrary, without denying that studying hard
was ascertained something more than what was known in the art, given the current failures, and
even the coming for one thing needful, and which already had him to begin his studies, ie
not I noticed the slightest spark of enthusiasm for his profession, nor the slightest sign
of disappointment to practice playing it their poor resources. Declaróme honestly and fairly
so was true, and with this and a little cunning mine, we were going step by step on the field
I wanted to drive you, or better, knowing it was all I needed to just met "inside."

He was a native of Robacio (like Chisco), and his father, Don Servando
Celis, a man of art Celso my uncle, had hoped to make health care
because he already had another son, the eldest, studying law at Valladolid.

To him, studying third degree in Santander, did the same thing.