 

On the banks of the river, starting from its junction with the Paraná, live to the west, Abipones,
of which number is reduced to people. Others, with their friends Tuffs and Bermejo River Mocobís
make incursions across the borders of Santa Fe, Cordoba, Santiago del Estero, Salta and Jujuí, and
sometimes from Paraná, make their shots in the jurisdiction of Corrientes, and often from the river
Paraguay and ambushes in the mountains, make significant damage to the northernmost village of
the Guarani missions, and stays the jurisdiction of Paraguay. The Indians arrive in the western
part of Paraguay to the Pilcomayo.

From the Pilcomayo begins the land of the languages, which are all that part of the Chaco,
the Pilcomayo to the land of the Mbayas, and also pass Paraguay, to make their shots into the rooms
of the Assumption. These Indians are no headquarters, nor do they support missionaries.

From the river Xexuí the one and another band, live the Mbayas, divided into several installments.
Its main tolderías are the first and second band of Paraguay, the lands most immediate the south
of Pan de Azucar. These Indians are all the earth, from the Tacuarí Xexuí by the Eastern and
Western, until near the Chiquitos. From the Sugar Loaf towards the north western side living
in the manure. These are Indians who work their land to plant corn, and also make their crops
to the Mbayas, paying these your work. Above the Tacuarí there, in the river of Porrudos, similar
to other Indians way of life to the Payaguá, but of more value, and excellent archers. Judge
is not many nations, they do not fall in their canoes to the river Paraguay. The Portuguese,
sailing by Xarayes from Cuiaba to Mattogroso, said that some trees there, in waterlogged Xaraya
is allowed to see some Indians, though few. Do not know what nation they are. Can be some relics of
the Xarayes. Up here I do not know that Indians inhabit some on the banks of the river Paraguay.

*
* *

§. III.

Mountains and trees.

The Creator of all things gave us adjoining lands a nice Paraguay River object to the eye, with
admirable variety of mountains, hills, plains and forests. From Flows to the river Xexuí there
by a forest and another band with a great variety of plants. But the above is greater Xexuí
charm the eyes, because sometimes you discover a bouquet of the mountain all covered with
trees, other times it is a campaign full of grass very green, others are huge palm trees, a
particular species of palms, because Logs are soaring and rights, hardwood and round crown, with
similar branches to the palm of making brooms in Andalucia. Nor can find anything more apropos swiftly
to form the roofs of the houses, because in removing the glass, and cutting the trunk by the
foot, there's no more to do to apply to the work. These palm trees are common from the fields Xexuí
to Xerez. And as the logs are very clean, walk the Indians horseback through the palm, without any
pregnancy. The clusters of dates of these palms are smaller than regular palm, and dates are
also smaller in proportion.

I do not know if they are edible.

Generally speaking, all the hills and mountains are in many mountain slopes with tall trees and
very thick trunk. And there is no doubt that they would be, with so variety, precious woods.
We found by chance the tree where they get the rubber guta, or gamboge, which is a paste of very fine
yellow. The tall tree, not too thick, sheet similar to that of the laurel. He uncovered the tree
giving some cuts for entertainment in the bark of one of this species.

Then cut out by the liquid rubber, which soon rubber coagulates as seen in the pharmacy.

From Mboteteí, sailing up the river is the tree called Cachiguá, which has thin trunk, about twelve
to thirteen inches in diameter. The wood is red, a similar to vermilion color. The Portuguese
Cuyabá wood used in this red dye: say that the wood does not lose
color, and so exquisite for desktops and other works work.

Tree of the cassia trees, or casiafistula, are mountains in the vicinity of the Xarayes, and
grow taller and thicker than the brown of Spain. The bark is white, similar to those of the walnut.
The result is a beer and a half span, and some two feet long. Have in large grains such as
beans, grains and between some pulp black, used to purge soft, and
is sold in pharmacies.

The color of the cane, while ripe, is black as the pulp.

Taruma tree is a species of wild olive. The same size as that of the olive trees with little difference,
and even the leaf is not very different. The icing is like small olives, and has his blood like
olives.

The Paraguayans eat this fruit, but I found it bland.

It would be good to test whether it can be very useful oil, and even
if ignited in the Tarumas olive grafts.

* * *

§. IV.

Cuyabá facilities and Mattogroso.

The city of Cuiaba, according to some Portuguese maps, is at 14 degrees and 20 minutes south
latitude, and as inferred from the length that was found the mouth
of Xaurú, and distance is of Cuiaba, we can put this city in 322 degrees
of longitude, counting del Fierro, with a short difference.

Its situation is on the east of the river called Cuiaba, which to lead in the Porrudos, runs
north to south, and navigate to the Cuyabá port, a distance of two to three miles from the
city.

In the northern part extends for many miles the great mountains, where they have their origin the
two mighty rivers Paraná and Paraguay. And just for the north, down to the Topayos Marañon rivers,
Xingu, rio de Dos Bocas, Tocantins and others.

In the southern part of Cuyabá be stretched for many leagues the wetlands of Xarayes: from so
that this part can not enter into the city but by the stream. Nor is it possible that otherwise
you can pass people on foot or on horseback. In times of heavy rains flooded almost all the space
of sixty miles from north to south, and about the same from east
to west, that between the river and the mountains of Porrudos Cuyabá,
and may at this time through Cuyabá boats from the river Paraguay,
without getting to the Porrudos, but dry weather Cuyabá are reduced
and Paraguay rivers to their narrow and deep channels.

And although the intermediate space are many gaps, or there is no communication, or not been
discovered so far, where you can go through in straight from a river to the other. Therefore,
for sailing time from Cuiaba to Xaurú dry, and go to Mattogroso, are the Portuguese need to
give a great back, down the river of Porrudos, and for this the river Paraguay, by which to climb
back over sixty miles to the mouth of Xaurú.

On the east side has Cuyabá many Indian lands inhabited only infidels: and although there is
no way to go through this part of Brazil, is the way very long, very laborious and esponse to
the assaults of the barbarians and the black rebels. For these reasons there are few The Portuguese
who undertake the journey by land.

The great distance from Brazil, and laborious the road make the horses and mules in Cuyabá be
sold at prices very deep: it is sell an ordinary horse in a hundred pesos, and a mule in two hundred.

To the west, from Cuiaba to Mattogroso, be stretched some mountains, which are branches of
the great mountain or mountain range that we discussed earlier. The Portuguese led the way for
these mountains, to have communication with those of Mattogroso:
but laborious way, and only for ordinary people used to temper the
climate unhealthy.

The city of Cuiaba no wall, or artillery, or a fortification, for the wetlands of the Xarayes,
and the neglect of the Spanish total, judge fairly defended. Only the guard of Captain General,
and to defend the infidel Indians, maintain a company of soldiers paid to fifteen dollars per
month. From these various departments are. Twelve in two prisons to the frontier of the infidels: twelve
others in a war canoe serves to escort the boats that sail to St. Paul, and the remaining twenty,
are in Cuiaba, and they are all defending the city.

The number of people of all castes come to five thousand people, of which only a small number
are free, others, or slaves, or taken and treated as such, because Except for little more than
two hundred people who will find white people, the others, many are black and mulattoes, and mestizos
many Indians, who are treated by the Portuguese like slaves: for,
though only to the actual ordinance and to those of Payaguá other
nation can make slaves, but those parts are served any Portuguese
Indians who can catch, and keep them in slavery.

The Indians Cuyabá by more immediate the north are the Paresis and
Barbudos: they never give to the Portuguese, for either have to overcome,
or are to be killed in the fray.

On the north-east are the Bororo Indians: these have the simplicity
of it, caught India by the Portuguese some of his nation, then come
the immediate relatives to deliver and serve the Portuguese who has
her home.

To the south, after the flooding, are above the Mbayas that the passage
of the Paulist Tacuarí by the usually undertake.

* * *

§. V.

Cuyabá mines.

Throughout Brazil are the Portuguese name of mines to the gold mines. And so neither in Cuiaba,
or any other part of Brazil, which has come to my knowledge, mine
is working properly such.

But there are gold mines Cuyabá of 23 carats, and one of the gold mines are diamonds. But in
these years history, because diamonds are not losing their estimation, was banned by the King
of Portugal them out of Cuiaba. The sinks are located in various parts to falls or slopes of
the great Cordillera. Work in these laundries black slaves, black and gives each his master in
every week three pieces of gold grains, which is the only currency runs there. And you do the math
on buying and selling gold in octaves and each octave are two weights.

In some parts is gold in abundance, but you can not take advantage
of him there for missing water for washing.

The great distance from Cuiaba to the coast of Brazil is due to the gender of Europe thence
selling price up. A very ordinary shirt worth six dollars, or three octaves gold: a pair of
shoes, the same: a flask of wine and brandy, which in the Janeiro given for ten pesos worth in Cuyabá
sixties. And this proportion is sold to other genres. What goes up there at exorbitant prices,
and is the largest smuggling, if you're not at the office custom, is salt, which is carried in
Lisbon, and not permitted elsewhere.

* * *

§. VI.

Cuyabá temperament and fruits of the earth.

In Cuiaba and its vicinity is very hot and humid temperament, and consequentially enjoys all
the land of poor health.

The most common disease which is called the Portuguese of the beast: and they die a lot, because
they can not cure. The disease is extreme laxity in the hole with dysentery, and some fever.
The Portuguese, convinced that is bred in the flesh some bug or Guzan, causing those effects, intended
to force lemon juice and other citrus fruits, to kill the bug, and happens not infrequently ending with
the patient. The surgeon D. Pedro Gracian, who sailed with me on a boat through the Xarajes, very
smart man in his right, hearing the ensign of complaining Cuyabá that was between the people some
patients the bug, maybe something was informed that the bug, and
actually went to see the sick, and found that there was no such creature
or Guzan, and offered to cure them later.

The Portuguese insisted upon very effectively that there was no cure for this disease the lemon tart, which
maybe mixed with AGI, garlic and salt, but The surgeon showed them the error where they were,
then taking his account of the patient who had of more danger, he was given two days healthy,
without applying any of the sobredichas thing to kill the bug, have certainly had no such animal.

The
storm water that run through forests there cañafístula, Parages covered by the rods that fall from
the trees, bushes and other plants large purges, with excessive heat and the sleepless nights
caused by the multitude of mosquitoes are in my opinion the cause of that distemper and that disease.
The Spanish, who got into Xaurú, experiments at that temper like dysentery, with great relaxation
in the stomach, which had no the heat needed for digestion. In this accident happened to happiness,
taking before eating a bit of sweet wine: remedy needed in that country to avoid losing health.

The
downpours are common in the uplands, but the strongest, which are grown dramatically rivers,
beginning with the month of December. And grow both rivers, not finding enough opening out
the many waters that flow down into the plain of Xarayes, overflow flooding fields, and forming
by this time a big lake, but later, in the rain ceasing, is drained by the Paraguay river channel,
and are only the channels of the rivers, and some gaps, uncovering
all the rest of the plain, full of impenetrable marshes.

But all that space for flooding, there are some groves of trees he very high whose trunks are
flooded up to three and four yards high. And most fans watched in Xarayes, is that all land to be
flooded part of the year, they found ants (Of which there are innumerable crowd) way to keep
their nests. These are manufactured by strong clay on top of large trees, with such art is like
a furnace around one of the upper branches, and so well constructed that they can not offend rain
or wind. And so that these can not be ants going up or down in dry weather, have made of it a
strong mud-covered road or canal, descending to the foot of the tree, which channel the ants up
and down safely.

The fruits of the land of Cuiaba and its region are maize, rice, cassava
(in other parts of America called cazave), pineapples, bananas or
pacobas with many other fruit species typical of hot climates of America,
sugar, cane syrup and bees, which There are several species in the
mountains.

The wild rice is on the banks of the Rio Cuiaba and Porrudos.

No fucks wheat, no wine, no nuts in Europe. The lack of bread supplement Portuguese with farinha
do pao, or cazave. There are Cuyabá some cattle, but little. In D. Xaurú bought them Manuel
Flores some cows for people on boats, and paid twenty pesos each. Piglets and game are more
abundant.

* * *

§. VII.

Navigation made by Portuguese in Brazil to Cuiaba.

Each year the Portuguese traders go to Cuiaba Brazil with a large fleet of canoes gender-laden, and return
the product in gold and diamonds. The voyage is long and work: out of sixty or seventy canoes
of a harbor, which is four or five leagues San Pablo, a city well known in Brazil. Añembí down by
the river, to fall to the Paraná. On this sail downstream to the mouth of the Rio Pardo, which
comes from the west, and has the origin of some streams that flow down from the great chain
that extends from north to south, from near to Mount Cuyabá Itapuá in the Guarani missions. Up to Portuguese
canoes, until they can sail above the river Pardo: download here gender, and to spend two miles
of mountains, which are from the Rio Pardo to Carnap, vessels and cargo transported on the truck of
a Portuguez that it was filled in that range, and is interested in the transport of these
canoes. Before there was population there, spent their canoes on the shoulders of slaves who
have to paddle. Carried canoes to Carnap, the reloaded, and sail down the river to enter the Tacuarí.
For this sailing with some care, because their margins go up the Indians running Mbayas campaign,
which are enemies of the Portuguese, and not lose the opportunity to kill or captive lead
away from catching the fleet. Before arriving at the mouth of Tacuarí in Paraguay, as are the
Cuyabá war canoe, which, while usually Paulist arrive with their own, are waiting to defend
the Payaguá because canoes carrying of San Pablo is not enough for his defense, since each is only
a Portuguez white, or at most two, and the black rowers but they
do not carry weapons.

The Payaguá the usually expect a multitude of very light canoes, each of which are six or seven
men, and to avoid detection, they come with their canoes under the branches of trees, coming
to play in the water: and when they pass the Portuguese, the assault of a sudden and give them a
volley of arrows, throwing Portuguez always white, and lie on canoes can take, and collecting
gender and blacks, are lowered to the Assumption, where the Spanish
out of compassion to rescue the captives. To avoid the Portuguese
these assaults and damage Payaguá do in their fleets, have reinforced
the call of war canoe, for the escort from the Tacuarí to Cuiaba.

The
weapons of war canoe is a bronze Cañoncillo a rod or something else
long, which promptly fired several shots. And for this they bear in
their drawers well conditioned cartridges, made of canvas instead
camellote because in this way prevent is some fire in the canyon,
and say they are not so hot, although shoot then with that many shots
Cañoncillo