 The
two largest, leaving Pascualet, who took refuge behind a tree whimpering, entablábase grabbed
stones and a battle in the middle of the road.

Pebbles whistled through the branches, bringing down a rain of leaves and bouncing off trunks and
slopes, dogs barking out fierce barraqueros, attracted by the noise of the fight, and women at the
doors of their homes, raised their arms to heaven, crying indignant:

-
Condenats!

Dimonis! ...

These scandals indignant Don Joaquin and made him move his inexorable
cane next day.

What about your school, temple of good breeding! ...

The fight did not end until a road went flying the whip, or left some old barracks, club in hand. The
assailants fled, was disbanded, and repentant of his achievement
at being alone, felt terrified, with the easy exchange of views of
children, in that bird who knew everything and what kept them for
et Joaquin next day.

Meanwhile, the three brothers continued their journey descalabraduras
scratching their struggle.

One afternoon the poor woman screams Batiste appealed to God and to
the saints see the progress as they reached their young.

That day the battle had been hard. Ah, the bandits! The two seniors were bruised; was always the same:
there was no need to ignore.

But the little one, the Bishop, as we affectionately his mother called
him, was wet from head to foot, and cried, trembling with fear and
cold.

The fierce vagabonds had thrown in a ditch of stagnant water, and
then gouged covered with silt siblings nauseating.

       

Teresa laid him in his bed when he saw the poor fellow was trembling in his arms, holding his neck
and murmuring voice like a bleat:

- Mare! Mare! ...

The mother resumed her lamentations.

"Lord! Give us patience!

"All that mob, young and old, had proposed ending with the family.

* * * * *

VII

Sad and frowning, as if to a funeral, Batiste began the road to Valencia
on a Thursday morning.

It was market day for animals in the river, and carried on the belt, as a thick lump, the burlap bag
with the rest of their savings.

Rained misery on the block.

All that was missing its roof that would collapse over them, crushing them all .... What people!
Where have you been! ...

The little boy getting worse, shivering with fever in the arms of his mother, who cried to all hours,
and visited twice a day by the doctor. In short, a disease that was going to cost you twelve
or fifteen hard, as they say nothing!

The eldest, Batistet, could hardly go beyond their fields. He still had his head wrapped in
rags and face cross-spanked, after the huge battle that morning said
on the road with others their age who would like him to pick up manure
in Valencia.

All fematers contour against Batistet had joined, and the poor boy could not look the road.

The
two small and did not go to school for fear of fights that should support the return.

And Rosetta, poor girl! was the one that was more sad.

The father, gloomy and severe glimpses gesture reminded him mutely
to be indifferent, because their sentences were an attack on parental
authority.

But alone, he lamented good Batiste the sadness of the poor girl. He had also been young and
knew how heavy are the pains of love.

Everything had been discovered. After the famous fight in the fountain of the Queen, the whole
garden spent several days talking about the Rosetta love with the nephew of old Tomba.

The butcher of Alboraya snorted courage against his servant. Ah, great rascal! Now understood
why he forgot his homework, which lost the afternoon wandering around the garden like a gypsy.
The master was allowed to have a girlfriend, like a man capable of maintaining it. And what bride
Good God! One had only to listen to the customers when they chatted at his desk. All said the
same thing: they were surprised that a man like him, religious, honest
and without other defects to steal something in the weight allowed
to accompany his servant to the daughter of the enemy of garden, an
evil man, which he had allegedly been in prison.

And this, in respect of the standard big-bellied, was a disgrace to their establishment, listening
to the murmurings of the gossips again enraged, threatening with the knife the timid servant,
or rebuked the Tomba to correct the rascal of his grandson.

Total: the butcher dismissed the boy and his grandfather find work in Valencia home of another
sharp, praying that no grant him freedom or even on holidays, to no more waiting on the road to
the daughter of Batiste.

Tonet went submissive, with moist eyes, as one of the sheep that had so often hauled up the knife
from his master. Never return to the garden. In the hut was the poor girl hiding in her bedroom
to moan, making efforts not to show pain to the mother, who, irritated by so many setbacks,
appeared intractable, and before the father, who spoke of it to pieces
if she was to have a boyfriend and talk to it the enemies of the contour.

The

poor Batiste, so harsh and threatening, so it hurt for all misfortune was the distress of the
poor girl, poor appetite, yellow, haggard, making efforts for being indifferent, barely sleeping,
which did not stop every morning march time at the factory, with a vagueness in telling pupils
that his thinking rolled away, I was dreaming inside at all hours.

Were they any more evil? ... Yes, there were still others. At the cabin, nor beast got rid of
the poisonous atmosphere of hatred that seemed to float on its roof. At that not trampling certainly
made him the evil eye, and so his poor Morrut, the old horse an animal that was like family,
which had dragged down by poor roads and trousseau boys in the pilgrimages of misery, he would
dribble out in the barn Again, the best accommodation during their long working life.

Behaved like honest person in the worst time when newly established family in the hut, had to plow damn
petrified by ten years of neglect, when there to make continuous trips to Valencia in search of the
rubble of demolition and old wood; when the grass was not much and
the work overwhelming.

And now that front window of the block lay a great field of fresh
grass, straight, wavy, all for him now had the table set with that
green and juicy tablecloth smelled of glory now fattened, their legs
are tapered and rounded his back knotted, died suddenly, without knowing
why, perhaps using their perfect right to rest after taking the family
afloat.

He lay on the straw one day, refusing to leave, staring with glazed eyes Bastida and yellowish did
expire on the lips of love vows and threats of indignation. It looked like a poor person Morrut;
Batiste, recalling his eyes, was often wishes to mourn. The barracks suffered a concussion, and
that unfortunately made the family to forget Pascualet poor momentarily, trembling with fever
in bed.

Batiste's wife cried.

Gentle animal that extending his nose had been coming into the world Almost all children. Still remember
it like it was yesterday, when I bought in the market Sagunto, small, dirty, full of scabs and
gore, like a smack of waste. Was a family member was leaving.

And when some nasty guys came in a car for take your horse to the "Caldera" [16], which become
the skeleton of polished bone brilliance and fertilizing compost meats, kids crying, screaming
from the door endless goodbye to poor Morrut, going away with stiff legs and head swaying, while
the mother, as if I had a horrible feeling, is cast with open arms on the sick child.

[16] place where they cremated the dead animals to use their bones.

Recalled to their children when they were introduced in the block to pull the tail Morrut the sweet
passivity which endured with all the boys games. I saw the little boy when his father put him
on the hard spine of the animal, hitting the shiny little feet flanks and screaming "arre! Arre!
"With childish babble. With the death of this poor beast Teresa thought she was going to be
left open a gap in the family where they would others.

Lord that deceive their mother painful forebodings, that was just the animal suffered which was,
that is not carried on their backs to the poor little one way to heaven, as at other times he wore
in the paths of the garden clinging to his mane, slowly, not to tear it down!

And poor Batiste, thinking occupied by so many misfortunes, shuffling
in his imagination sick children, the dead horse, son and daughter
Descalabrado his concentrated sorrow arrived at the outskirts of the
city and spent the Serranos bridge.

At the end of the bridge, on a plain between two gardens, opposite the octagonal towers hovering
over the trees its pointed arches, its corbels and crown their battlements, Batiste stopped,
running his hands over his face. I had to go to the masters, children Don Salvador, and ask
to borrow a piquillo to complete the amount it would cost the purchase
of a hack that would replace the Morrut.

And since the toilet is the luxury of the poor, sat on a stone bench, waiting his turn came to
clean the beards of two weeks, sharp and tough as barbed, which blackened his face.

In the shade of tall bananas worked the orchard people hairdressers, barbers to "face the sun."
A pair of armchairs with seat and arms esparto polished by using
a stove in the pot of boiling water, towels and a razor dubious dull
color, that scraped the hard skin of the parishioners with spooky
rails, were all fortune of these outdoor facilities.

Surly boys who aspired to be young men in barbershops in the city were there their weapons first,
and while inferring tame or village heads cut da trasquilones and peeling, the master was talking
to the customers sitting on the bench of the ride, or read a newspaper
aloud to the audience, which, with the chin on both hands, listening
impassive.

Those who sat in the chair of the torments pasábanles a piece of soap stone cheeks, and rub
that rubs until rising foam.

Then came the cruel navajeo, cuts, that stood firmly on the client's face stained with blood.
A little more sounded beyond the big scissors in constant motion, passing and reviewing on the round
presumed head of a strapping young man, who was shorn as a black
poodle and the height of style: long matted hair on the front and
back half a head of closely cropped.

Batiste was shaved quite lucky, as I listened, sunk in the Esparto chair and with closed eyes,
reading the 'teacher', made with nasal, monotonous voice, their commentaries and glosses man skilled
in public affairs. No more than three scratches removed and a cut on his ear. Other times he
had been more. Gave his half-real, and got into the city Serranos by the door.

Two hours later he came out again, and sat on the stone bench, from
the group of parishioners, to hear again the teacher while the market
was time.

The owners had just paying the piquillo he needed to buy the horse. Now important was to have
a good eye to choose from, the serenity to not be fooled by the cunning gypsies passing before him with
their cattle, then a ramp down into the riverbed.

Eleven. The market should be the most animated. Batiste came to the confused noise a hotbed invisible
climbed the neighing and voices from the bottom of the channel. Doubted stood still, as you
want to delay the moment of an important resolution, and finally decided to descend to the market.

The
bed of the Turia was, as always, almost dry. Some streaks of water, breaks the dams and reservoirs
that cool the meadow, meandering curved or islands in a dusty floor, burning, uneven, which looked
more like African desert riverbed.

At such times he was all white with the sun, without the slightest taint of shadow.

The cars of the peasants, with their clear awnings, formed a camp in the center of channel, and
along the banks of stone set in a row, were the animals at the sale: coceadoras black mules, with
bright red shells and legs agitated by nervous restlessness; Dobbins,
strong but sad, like serfs condemned to eternal fatigue, looking glassy
eyes to all that passed, as if they guessed the new tyrant, and small
and vivacious ponies, injuring the dust with their hooves, pulling
the tether that kept them tied the wall.

Next to the down ramp were the culled animals: donkeys, no ears, dirty hair and disgusting pustules
sad horses, whose skin seemed to pierced with angled the stark skeleton,
mules short-sighted, with neck stork all the misery of the market,
the castaways of work, which, with leather lined up sticks, stomach
contracted and excoriation Swollen bellied flies green and awaited
the arrival of the contractor's bullfighting or the beggar, who would
know still use them.

Beside streams in the middle of the channel and the banks that had moisture covered with a tiny
layer of grass, herds of horses trotted untamed, open air, luenga mane, tail dragging on the
ground. Beyond the bridges, through its arches stone, could be seen
herds of bulls, with the legs drawn up, quietly ruminating grass threw
them pastors, or walking lazily through the parched ground, feeling
the nostalgia of fresh pastures, standing fiercely every time the
youngsters are whistle from the parapets.

The animation market is
growing. Around each horse was adjusting the sale formed gesticulating
and chattering groups of peasants in shirtsleeves, with a stick ash
in the right hand. Roma, dry, tan, long and curved rails, sheepskin
with patches and hair cap, beneath which his eyes shone with a glow
of fever, spoke constantly, throwing his breath in his face as if
to Buyer hypnotize.

- But you look well in the pony. Fix in your
lines ... If it looks like a lady!

And the farmer, insensible to
the mellows Roma, self-enclosed, pensive and uncertain, looked down,
looked upon the beast, he scratched his neck, and just saying to power
stubborn:

- Well, they do not donate month [17].

[17] - Well, it
does not give anymore.

To make workplaces and solemnize the sales
we wanted the protection of a sunshade, under a big woman who sold
pastries adorned by flies or glasses filled with sticky content of
half a dozen bottles on a table lined with zinc