 

The boy did not dare, and continued smiling.

- Pull you, pull you - she insisted her back and thrusting back his
hair over his face.

Gonzalo her hand to him, but did no more than caress.

- What, has not been? It is very secure.

And he ran from the room.

Still took a while whispering secret. Touched on some points of the
afterlife.

Cecilia listened to her mother lecture on what to do once married,
feeling a tingle in the soul that was barely powerful hide.

He had taken a hand and squeezed and fondled nerve intermittently.

From time to time to his lips and kissed her hard.

Dona Paula looked at her smiling tenderness and rejoicing in the happiness that filled the heart
of his daughter.

The clock in the room vibrated, giving the 0:30.

Gonzalo rose hastily.

- Oh, how late! What will Don Rosendo?

- Never go to bed before this time - said Cecilia.

- Yes, but you
know I used a long time to close the doors - said Dona Paula.

Cecilia was silent. Gonzalo they shook hands warmly, promising to
return the next day.

After went to the office of Lord of Belinchón to say goodbye.

The mother and daughter continued chatting in the same corner on the same subject, receiving
first a number of hugs and kisses apretadísimos.

- This is not for me - said with a certain expression between happy
and sad.

- Yes, Mom, yes - the girl replied hugging her tighter.

Don Melchor de las Cuevas rose from the table, lit a cigar, and said,
offering another his nephew:

- Let's go for coffee.

Gonzalo wanted to keep it in his pocket because he had never previously allowed smoking in front
of his uncle, but he withheld his arm.

- Light, small, light, and boy you're no longer.

The young man took a match and began to take puffs on his cigar with
emotion.

Paired left the house and down slowly along the street enjoying the well-being Natures voluptuous
feel powerful after a big meal. Seemed two giant cedars, majestic, proud of their height. And they
kept the same silence them when they do not wind blows. The women who worked at the doors
of their houses looked on with curiosity touched with admiration.

- Who is the gentleman who goes to Don Melchor?

- Women, do not you know? The nephew, the Miss Gonzales, who arrived yesterday at the Bella-Paula.

-
What a real boy!

- Like his father, Don Mark, rest in peace.

- And like his grandfather, Don Benito - added an old family .-- What a noble and hearty!

At the intersections where they discovered a piece of sea, the Lord of the Caves would stop a moment
to take a searching look.

- For now calm. In a little breeze.

- Do you see? - Said with a look of triumph after a moment.

- What?

- The boats, man the boats. I have smelled!

- I see nothing, - said Gonzalo pulling the eyes descry on the horizon.

- Still as before. You can see is the soup in the dish - the guy said, smiling with pity.

The Marina boiled coffee and people. The rumor of the discussions and disputes, the ringing the glasses,
the shock of the dominoes on the marble tables, was a noise deafening. It was situated in a
square that formed the New Rúa to lead the spring, and one of its walls looked to the sea.
Reuníanse it most of the captains and pilots who were in Sarrió the way, and almost everyone who lived
without their work as in the village, plus the neighbors who felt one way or another maritime
inclinations. When crossing through screams were called to different
tables.

Don Melchor was the man more popular, the most loved and respected he entered the cafe. It was
necessary to approach to greet one and all, and introduce you to Gonzalo. Those wolves are staring
entranced; he pressed his hand to feeble, and offered with all the fervor of his heart a glass
of rum and maraschino.

When the board refused to talk about coffee above, deepest sadness on their faces are painted leather.

Don
Melchor was, in fact, the habit of taking in the Club. This was a room the main floor of the house,
which had communication with the coffee by means of a ladder iron. After she went by uncle
and nephew. They were gathered together remarkable people sitting on a couch run, each with Japanese
front tables, where everyone took coffee. On one door, which was usually open, saw the pool room where
always playing the same people surrounded by the same onlookers.

When Don Melchor and his nephew came, there was talk of a covered market for project preserve from the
weather to poor women selling vegetables and milk in the open. And Gonzalo recalled that on one
occasion they went to look for his uncle before going to England, was discussing the same subject.
The subjects varied little in that assembly. The existence of villa calm and quiet gliding amidst
the daily work. The only events that occasionally shake his lethargy were the entry or exit
of any major vessel, the death of an acquaintance, a bill protested, the paving of some streets,
failure of a cargo, the contraband stash, spring cleaning.

Women and boys were handiest matters to satisfy the human desire developments: the arrival of a handsome
stranger and stylish (great sensation among the marriageable girls) Fulanito Margarita that
accompanied the first ride (why it is a done deal seen already?), which Severino the hardware
store wear yourself out to beat his wife (well spent the is for marrying that ass !...). The
suit brought Fulanita Our Day Lady (say it came from Madrid Madrid ... What woman, if I myself
have seen it cut Martina!). The dance of trust that will be on Thursday at the Lyceum. (Do not touch
dance that day .-- Pagan spending the chicken neck.) Serious men
who met in the despised Saloncillo these issues, although from time
to time, by exception, stinging them.

Some, Don Rosendo, Don Mateo, Don Pedro Miranda and Mayor Don Roque, and Gonzalo I was greeted
last night. But there also were Gabino Maza, Don Feliciano Gomez French engineer M. Delaunay,
Alvaro Peña, Marin, Don Lorenzo, Don Agapito and five or six gentlemen, who rose up to embrace
him.

Don Pedro Miranda, whom we have already mentioned, was a man who had a good time of the sixties,
low height and color, shaved cheeks, head and lirondo peel, large eyes and dull, timid gestures.
It was the richest landowner of the population and genuine representative of the aristocracy
to come from an ancient family of landowners and have not certified person in the town that
best represent them. There was, however, important this privilege. He was affable, modest, with all
the neighbors alternated unattended their social condition, extremely helpful, if it were not for
money, and little friend to impose their will or contradict anyone. But if the pre-eminence
declined entirely birth, however, he was zealous in their property rights. He had never known
or owned more proprietary know that Don Pedro Miranda. The institutions of law force, the old
law, universities, army, navy, constitution politics and even religion, had no reason to be
in their eyes, but as elements that a direct or indirect entrenched those rights. The amazing machine
of the Universe was formed to support his undisputed title to the freehold of Praducos, village
situated half a mile from the village, and had direct on the Meanas, with a canon hundred and
fifteen ducats yearly.

This awareness of their right engendered very clear, however, excess
of clarity, some conflicts.

A settler came and said: - Lord, Joaquín el martinetero, has cut
the cane yesterday walnut hanging over their garden .-- But walnut
was mine! - Don Pedro exclaimed suddenly flushed with anger and surprise
.-- Yes, sir ... but hanging over their garden as ...--¿ How this
scoundrel dared to touch on one thing that is mine, mine? - immediately
filed an injunction, and naturally, he lost.

Of these injunctions had lost a few dozen in your life, without ever
deterrant.

Don Roque de la Riva, constitutional mayor Sarrió, who have been honored
to compare when I first saw him in the theater, a courtier of Louis
XV, or a coachman big house, not remarkable for the purity of diction,
before it was so run down and confused, that the caller he could scarcely
understand.

We do not know if it was in the mouth or throat or in the region
of the nasal passages, where Mr. de la Riva was kindly crushing and
tormenting the words, the truth is coming out almost always transformed
into sounds dark, hollow, chaotic, completely unintelligible.

Particularly after eating it was impossible to talk to him.

And this, for no other reason, they said, but because they don Roque
used to instruct pilots a wine friends Rivero, so exquisite, that
nobody would to drink, even at the risk of staying silent.

The paramount chief of the village civil leaving all evenings home
alone, in appearance, actually pleasantly accompanied.

Its huge face shaved wanted to take the blood through the pores, preferably focusing on the huge
back Bourbon your nose. The eyes, with bouquets of blood also, half veiled by not being able to
suffer the great heaviness of the eyelids slowly were spaced across the width of the street expressing
an enviable level of fitness. Serious step, slow, hesitant, accused just as a perfect harmony
between their mental and physical faculties. He lacked Don Roque to achieve happiness rather
than tripping over a sheriff, or a street sweeper, or serene, or chipping, with any employee,
in short, of the municipality. From afar I descry, and suddenly lifted her eyelids, and nostrils of the smell
was opened dam. If this, sniffing the tiger, he spent the other side, or trying to hide Roque called
him a voice of thunder.

- John, Juaan, Juaaaan!

The victim's head went down.

- Have you taken the job to Don Lorenzo?

- Yes, sir.

- Have you told the clerk to leave the file section of the cemetery?

- Yes, sir.

- Have you taken the cards to the headman of San Martín?

- Yes, sir.

- Have you been to tell Manuel to remove the debris that is in front of your house?

In short, I was wondering, until the poor sheriff answered negatively.

Then, the voice of choristers of the mayor was heard across the street, and even in the confines
of the town. His eyes were injected, and his face came to be apoplectic
purple.

Impossible understand what he said, if they were not splashing the garlic with the speech, and
even these the cupped so that only the jack was seen clearly. The rebuke never lasted less
than fifteen or twenty minutes, the time required to leave the vast amount of garlic that had
been accumulated in the body from the night before. Just as there are people morning put their
fingers in the mouth to cause bile Roque inevitably needed this relief to be comfortable. He had
not ever heard another interjection, but instead of this possessed such abundance that was
not enough to put one on each floor, sometimes put two or three.

Shopkeepers came out to the door to listen, but smiling, not surprisingly, as usual of old to
this show.

- Don Roque today pulled Swifts firm - told each other aloud.

- Look if you do John.

Indeed, the sheriff at every turn in the round that gave the mayor, had the thumb the mouth and
made the sign of steep.

Don Roque would rather find a sweeper or chipping in the exercise of their functions. Cautiously
approached him from behind, and he knelt his dedazo in the neck.

--¡... Garlic! rascal so, what is so sweeping that? Do you think ... garlic! I'll pay for let
me half the crap between the stones? ... Garlic! Is this gratitude? ... Garlic! Is it this shame?
... Garlic!

Sometimes himself in the speech enthusiastically grasped the broom and began to give the sweeper
a lesson in his craft. Shopkeepers, the few pedestrians crossing the street and some lady who
was leaning on the balcony with the noise, burst out laughing merrily. The sweeper itself, despite
their plight, could not repress a smile watching this madman with giving the coat rolled up
angry and confused wipe the floor.

- This sweeping! ... ... Garlic! (Broom terrible blow.) This sweeps! ... ... Garlic! (Another hit.)
This sweeps! ... ... Garlic! (Another hit.) This sweeps! ... ... Garlic!

Until exhausted, sweaty and ready to fall to earth with a stroke, gave him a broom and picked up the
baton with tassels.

Thus vented his noble bosom of the copy of garlic that was upon him, undertook again their
way and arrived at a most happy disposition Saloncillo body and spirit.

Gabino Maza was a man of about forty-five-year-old naval officer, retired early because his
maverick nature could not bear to military discipline. Face olive-brown, small eyes and dark circles
live with constant hawking his temper too bilious. High, dry, muscular, his beard and hair that was
black in color in blue, the always broken and violent gestures, voice
indefinable, sometimes serious, other, when angry, which was almost
always began to talk, shrill and sharp as a falsetto so shrill that
broke the ears.

Enjoyed a small income and a very small removal, with which he could live and feed his family with
respect Sarrió a wealthy gentleman. In the capital of the province and it would be impossible.
Eternal struggles, putting in each dispute, it was trivial, a lot of passion and violence really
amazing, always willing, be contrary to everything they said although it was clearer the noonday
gloom of a fierce and unfriendly to judge men, for that point was not made the case that never believed
pure motives of human action by noble and honored to appear, spiteful and vindictive to madness.
This man, however, did not attract the hatred of the neighborhood against another, as might be supposed.
In villages and towns, by the intimate, long and steady people, penetrates into the soul of each
than in large populations. Superficial treatment does, in them, many men sympathetic cold, selfish
and even evil. Courteous manners, gentle words, insinuating smile, immediately provide opinion
'nice and decent person. " In the province worthless this. On the contrary, is wary of excessive
friendliness, and above all, smile sweetish, is looking to every man the folds and recesses
of the soul with the same care and attention to a taxidermist is feeling and putting the scalpel
view all fibers of the body machine. Which are generally hated by some men that stranger seduce
him, while others, hard, violent, aggressive, often fall into grace. The dissimulation, which
is the talent of rude and vulgar natures, not ever forgive province, perhaps to be the predominant
service in all social relations. The geniuses alive, exalted temperament, not scary like the "bulls
clear." There is almost always in them a spirit of justice, which, though exaggerated and corrupted
by passion, not just them unfriendly. Moreover, as the exaltation of violence and constant
cause of suffering, physical and moral discomfort, rightly judged that men of such temperament
are in themselves the penalty of their excesses.

Gabino Maza was not hated and loved too. Those with grievances him, he murmured and prevented
their meeting calling him "jealous" and "bad language."

Those who do not laugh at his exaggerations and he led themselves with pleasure, without professing
great affection either.

Another character was gathered there Feliciano Gómez. Grocery merchant genres retail owner at
the same time three or four and some quechemarines that pataches coasting trade made by the Cantabrian
coast, venturing once in a while the more transport to get to Seville. Of medium height, bare head
of hair in pyramid-shaped pins that reached her nose, almost always hoarse voice. It was fun man,
kind, optimistic.

He was unmarried and living with three sisters over age, who had made real ladies workforce and
economy. The payment as they gave public voice, was to have him dominated and subject as a
child, bitterly rebuke lighter faults, and mortify and boring by all means imaginable. However,
he never was heard a complaint from them.

The Belgian engineer, M. Delaunay, had come to Sarrió years ago, in order to benefit mining
the preserve of a powerful English company. The operation did not work. The company withdrew his
commission and salary. But Delaunay, who had some money and entrepreneurial genius, went on
for six or eight industrial companies. First set up a paper factory then another tip from Paris,
and later tried to form an oyster farm, then factory cheese and ice.
Finally wanted to take a large marsh that was near Sarrió. All these
companies had failed, without anyone knowing why. Delaunay was smart,
illustrated, time-consuming. Each industry knew it was going to exercise
as the most competent teacher; charge devices to England, riding and
running was happily getting very acceptable products. The attributed
its fall to the lack of roads. The last of big corporations, aborted
before birth, it more than any other discredited. In a of his trips
around the village, had been near a small river certain uncultivated
land with little effort could be reduced to cultivation. Took hold
in mind; up the plane. A few months later, when he was forced to close
the ice maker and fire workers, the Marsh remembered and spoke of
them to Don Rosendo Belinchón Don Feliciano Gómez and two more Indians
to assist him in his great undertaking. Replicated them that was necessary
to see them, and concertóse the tour. One morning mounted in two horses
secretly initiated the march to the estuary of Orlean, distant four
leagues Sarrió. When you get near the horses she left and went on
foot of a hill, from which oteaban marshes. What would be the shame
and confusion of seeing the land Delaunay trying to steal the sea,
covered with corn, green and flowering were a blessing God! In fact,
more than six years were under cultivation. His mistake was born seeing
them in December when they were resting. They turned to the town,
and incident occurred in her laughter that must be assumed.

Laid
out ruined. Was obliged to live miserably. But far from going out
in his mind the fury of the business burned in poverty with more momentum.
So not leave a single Sarrió capitalist who does so in order to embark
on one. Sometimes it was a tram to the capital, others a port of refuge
or a wooden piers, other great restaurant. Some Indians, just by the
way, he seduced, paid some thousands of dollars his innocence. The
fact is that Delaunay was a man of talent, scholar, learning very
well with all the advances of science and industry. Despise impossible
without making an injustice.

The Assistant Port Marina, Alvaro Pena,
young man of thirty, dark, big eyes black mustache Victor Manuel,
was characterized by a deep hatred, implacable, the state church and
all who represent him, even if his own brother. Without being amateur
in any way to science or literature, had a fairly large library, composed
entirely of books against religion and its ministers. He was signed
to three or four newspapers known for their anti-clerical views, and
said he had been had been seized a few years to accumulate data for
a book meant to be published under the title of religion within the
reach of all fortunes, which many neighbors knew and some fragments.
He was cheerful, courageous, fond of stories and jokes, which always
played paramount role a priest or nun