 On top of this, full of the most deep
conviction, was Simon Bolivar. Such was the independent state of Venezuela, after the reaction provoked
by the successes that had obtained weapons from the landing Marino, in early 1813, with refugees in
Chacachacare, islet belonging to the English government of Trinidad.

After this courageous achievement Margarita Cumana grab aided by a countryman, Colonel Juan
Arismendi, Margarita first military authority from the June 5, when his last proclamation in
favor of independence, Anton, seriously wounded, fled to die Curacao. About the same time, taken
prisoner by the royalists had Bernardo Bermudez been shot by order of Cerveris, but picked up
with the same boss ordered life murder in his own bed at the tidings of the victory achieved
by Marino, who then added this laurel on the capture of Barcelona.

This event forced the boss who defended the city, the quarterback Don Juan Manuel Cajigal to withdraw
to Guyana, and among the officers who accompanied him, Francisco Tomas Morales and Jose Tomas Boves,
later acquired great celebrity, launched from that time, the head of a division of cavalry,
to go in the middle of a thousand chances the plains of Caracas. Turning now to continue to Bolivar
in his expedition, saying before he fled to shut Monteverde Puerto-Cabello as soon as he knew that,
encouraged by his courage, his genius and fortune, Valencia approached.

A year to that in the cells at Puerto-Cabello Jalon brave prisoner groaned, and Bolivar, save both
as to humiliate Monteverde, laid siege to the square with troops Urdaneta and Ribas division,
commanded by Giraldot. In one of the outputs that the Zuazola trying plaza fell prisoner and
immediately proposed Bolivar cange to Jalon The proposal was rejected by Monteverde, who persisted
in his conduct of not wanting to deal enemies. This and the Monteverde have shot some prisoners
forced the Venezuelan leader Zuazola order to pay their outrages being hanged in front of the plaza.
Cruel reprisals followed by the siege.

About 1,200 men landed under the command of Colonel Salomon, came to the aid of Monteverde September
l6, and Bolivar, raising the site, went to Valencia. A few days, the captain general and he
pursued the assailants and highlighted a force Barbula occupied the hill, on the spur of the
mountains of Guataparo, and 50 of the same month Giraldot columns, D'elute and Urdaneta attacked
the Spanish art, and climbing the mountain they placed the gun to arm routed the enemy, making him
a large number of prisoners. In this Giraldot gallant glorious action, while the tricolor
flag planted on more strong position of the royalists, wounded by a bullet fell to rise no more.

Then
the Grenadian soldiers to avenge the death of his heroic countryman
asked Bolivar and obtained from the formation of a separate body,
and D'elute, at the head of a thousand brave Spaniards defeated at
a place called the Trenches, crowned by a complete victory, of which
result, wounded in the face by a bullet, he fled to close in Monteverde
Puerto-Cabello.

The site of the square was restored again and Giraldot avenged the third day of his death.

A week later, on October 11, Lt. Col. Elias Campo met some forces a thousand rifle with which, under
the orders of Bolivar, Coro had left, and having aide to 1,200 horses,
since the orders of Michael Ustariz, achieved a splendid Victory at
the site of about 2,000 riders Mosquito and 500 laborers who sent
Boves and Morales, who, accompanied by only thirty horse men took
refuge in Guayabal on the left of Apure.

The head of the Spanish infantry, Francisco Tomas Morales, left seriously wounded in the battle.

The
same day that the republican arms are marked with a glorious fact, met civil authorities in Caracas
and the council in the middle of the Victors, applause and cheers the people, and in agreement
conferred on Simon Bolivar employment captain general of the army and title LIBERATOR OF VENEZUELA.
But the famous leader not slept on his laurels or interrupted for a moment the progress of its operations,
and directing the general Ribas who came from Caracas, Valencia went on, and on November 25, with
2,000 men aged Infants and horsemen; clog the movement attempted
by the division of Salomon on the heights of Vijirima, and beating
it to great advantage, forced her to retire to Puerto-Cabello.

Of Salomon ten days there sought a rematch in Araure with far superior forces in number, and
the republican arms, led by Bolivar himself, obtained a marked victory, therefore, with very few
losses, took the train all the enemy's military, which fled leaving the field more than a thousand
dead.

On this bright day gave evidence heroic General Urdaneta, Colonel Florencio Palacios, Lt. Col.
Manuel Manrique, Elias Campo captains, Briceno, Ribas Davila Villapol, Matthew Salcedo, and several
other Republicans. The soldiers deserved to grace your head, that made all the more praise
in the detailed part of this brilliant action. These losses brought discouragement and mistrust
in the Spanish ranks, and 28 December proponents of Puerto-Cabello Square, dismissed the remote
Monteverde Eleven days later he withdrew to hide their humiliation in Curacao.

Bolivar returned to Caracas, and making the political governor convene Cristobal Mendoza corporations,
most notable neighbors and, finally, to all parents, 2 January 1814, at the convent of San Francisco,
before an immense crowd, he realized administrative acts of his dictatorship and I hope the verdict
of the people. A governor's proposal among the most lively, enthusiastic and prolonged acclamation,
were confirmed at the Libertador powers until there had been invested, and fill with joy, headed
phrases, gratitude to the Venezuelan people for the confidence with which he was honored.

Then departed for the battlefield, and after that Ribas Boves courageously rejected in Victoria
on February 12, putting their troops in dispersion, while having to regret among other loss
of the distinguished Ribas Davila, 28 the same month, alone 1,800 men by Bolivar and 7,000 by
Boves, overcome this was to leave the field of action, which was the San Matthew, after having cost
the Republicans the victory 203 men killed and wounded. Among the first he had to regret the
brave Villapol and two other officers, and among the latter had, with Campo Elias, 30 other
officers, but the loss of the enemy was much higher.

Ricaurte garrisoned at the top of a hill near San Matthew a house
belonging to Bolivar and intended to serve park. The forces at his
disposal was not able to cope strong attack underlined column Boves against
the house, and knowing that their resistance would be useless, it outputs
its soldiers, left alone, set fire to the park and destroyed equipment
so the enemy, being buried in the rubble.

In late March the royalists laid siege to Valencia with 4,000 men Don Jose
Cevallos refresh was bringing the province of Coro, but not artillery.
The city was defended as the first chief of Urdaneta, Juan Escalona
as second, and as governor Mirror Doctor political. Taborda commander
directed the batteries. After several incidents, always advantageous to
 the besieged, on April 5, withdraw its forces at the foot
of Morro besieging the head disappeared down the road of Tocuyito.
Bolivar entered the square of the same day, accompanied by some officers,
and pay taxes after the heroic defenders praise that deserved headed over
Puerto-Cabello.

Because of the scarcity of resources and some mayhem in the space of one month had experienced
patriots, his situation was beginning to become somewhat embarrassing. Cagigal in person commanded
the army that had brought Cevallos, and actively harassed Republican when resolved on May 16
Bolivar present battle, which verified the next day Tocuyito in the fields, unable to get
anything for having blocked the action heavy rain, and 18 retired quietly encamped on the outskirts
of Valencia.

Ten days later, Bolivar's huge resources deployed his military genius presenting combined a good
battle plan Cagigal on the plains of Carabobo. The Spanish leader, for its part, had conveniently
located and with admirable order. The first line of Urdaneta was commanded by Republicans, while the Liberator,
Ribas, Marino and other heads operating in the second. The total force amounted to about 5,200
men, the enemy had more than 6,000 online. The successful provision of Bolivar, skillfully
executed by their heads, resulted in the extermination of almost
all the enemy infantry, as the riders unharmed fled to seek refuge
in safe part, to the right of way of Pao.

With only loss of about 60 men killed and wounded on this day won the Venezuelan leader 8 flags,
all enemy artillery, more than 500 rifles, a large number of mounts, ammunition, provisions and
cattle, so for the fifth time saving to their homeland.

Despite preventive measures taken by Bolivar, and was sure that Boves related facility people
to take revenge for the last defeat of the royalists could not prevent the door the 5,000 riders
and 5,000 infants defeated Spanish Merino, whose strength is not reached half of this number. More
than l, 000 Republicans were on the battlefield, many of them were killed after being taken
prisoner. The colonel and commander Aldao Freites were killed in action, and among the prisoners,
Colonel Jalon, Cangado to some time by Lieutenant Colonel Marimon. Also perished in this fateful
day the secretary State and Tevar Antonio Munoz.

While Bolivar and Marino, who had saved with good, having dispatched emissaries to Escalona to defend
the city of Valencia, ran to extract resources from the capital, Boves, after to pursue due
to the Victoria and leading a column of 1,500 men under Ramon Gonzalez for the master to be directed
to Caracas with the rest of his people, is presented ahead of Valencia on 19 and Escalona reducing
it to close precincts of the Plaza Mayor, forced him to surrender, offering to God to respect
the lives and property Those who occupied the square, but two days the colonel Alcover, Dr. Espejo,
all officers, unless he could flee Escalona for a costume, sergeants
and several individuals Valencia perished cruelly murdered.

Shortly before the capture of the city, Caracas was also occupied by the Spaniards, and 6 Julio
Bolivar, afflicted by the sad spectacle of the many families as a funeral procession followed his
steps, walking towards the mountains of Barcelona and the coast Capaya the sea. Boves by this
time, following the example of Monteverde, seized the remote and built in absolute lord of
his acts, in Caracas as governor left the traitor Quero, Valencia Don Luis Dato officer, and
ordered Morales to depart in pursuit of Bolivar. During the ten days I spent in Caracas circulated two
pardons, and then automatically to all authorities and chief justice
of the people to be able to send hand shot those who had taken part
in the deaths of some prisoners, executed while Arismendi Colonel
was acting governor of that capital.

Achievement in traffic Bolivar still pick up and organize up to 2,000 men, took possession did Aragua
de Barcelona. Colonel Bermudez accompanied the Venezuelan leader as his second. On August
18, and leading a respectable force of 8,000 bayonets, Morales attacked the Republicans, after
a long battle came to declare victory for the royalists, albeit at a high price because they
cost a thousand men and more than two thousand injured. Full of wrath, the Spanish leader to
pass control to the sword, besides the prisoners, much of of harmless neighbors, without regard
sex or age.

Beset by such fatal reversals of fortune, a less energetic and so pure faith does not enthusiastic for
the freedom of his country face, would have despaired of your company, but the Liberator,
which resilience and perseverance were steadfast, hearing the advice of a prudent value is
directed at Cumana, where he joined Ribas, Marino, Valdes, Azcue and other brave officers, weight,
measured and study the circumstances that made their situation precarious, and, after a long
debate, decided the evacuation of the city. The few troops that were there came out on August
25 for Maturin, and the squadron commanded by Bianchi, Marino and
Bolivar became the voir with towards the Margarita, as the Liberator
had to make safe the great treasure that high Caracas clergy had placed
in their hands to meet the needs of the Republic.

That treasure was composed of all the jewels of the churches, and Bolivar in such difficult times,
I had to make use of them to buy weapons and other necessary to the creation of a respectable
army, able to help save the motherland, ensuring forever their children the enjoyment of liberty,
the object of his most ardent desires and for which he sacrificed, not only the existence
but also the good fortune that their parents had left.

CHAPTER VI

A breach of trust .-- Judgement against Bolivar and Marino for their absence .-- Dismissal of
Liberation - New Maturin siege. - Defeats Morales Boves .-- .-- Death of Adversity pursues the Republicans
.-- Maturin Morales fell to so sad .-- .-- Advantages Ribas of the Spanish arms .-- Interview
Urdaneta and Bolivar .-- This appears to account for their conduct to the government and is
well received .-- Conquest of Santa Fe de Bogota Bolivar .-- Conflict with the governor of Cartagena
.-- Consequences the rebellion withdraw the Liberator .-- .-- Cartagena
Jamaica is taken by Morillo .-- New bloodshed .-- The republic seems
to have come to an end .-- .-- Bolivar Margarita Events threatened
by the dagger of a traitor .-- Preparations made by Brion.

Misfortune does not speak even ceased to grieve and to test the love of the heroic noble patrician; had not ceased
even to purify with fire of the most harsh torments his loyalty and diligence; had not yet downloaded
over his head the largest and most formidable of his punches. A new defection, the seductive
daughter of greed, came to clip the wings of his patriotic and halagueena hope. The riches he had drunk the greedy
heart of Bianchi, and with the greatest Bolivar cynically declare that he was willing to strip,
which would have verified live full if the claims of the holders of that treasure, seeking to purchase
the freedom of South America would not have gotten, sighting the
Margarita, the unfair ocean will cede a small part of jewelry and
two ships of his squadron to to guide him to Cartagena, but thwarted
his plans were directed toward and landed Carupano here on 5 September.

But

a new misfortune awaited them there. During his absence, the military chiefs province were tried
as traitors, and for leaving the army, it was his opinion there was a bill of attainder against them,
and Ribas and Piar had earned the first two military officers. Ribas Carupano occurred in
the day after the arrival of Bolivar and Marino became a prisoner to it, and let free, but dismissed,
as noble as unfortunate Libertador. However, one of those inexplicable events in men, by one
of those quirks of luck, the same as stealing had occurred in a threatening manner to protect
them; and having held strongly demanded Ribas, will provide relief and left for Cartagena
day 8, more willing than ever to sacrifice for their country.

About this time, with about 6,500 men, Morales stood before Maturin and intimated to surrender, offering
a most honorable capitulation to those who defended this point; but
the people maturinense reproduced again his old words, saying with
integrity: "He preferred the destruction of slavery."

Bermudez had at his side to the best Pedro Zaraza, the meek and brave Cedeno, Jose Tadeo Monagas
asset, other distinguished leaders, 1,000 Some 300 riders and as infants, all brave, all good
patricians.

Great was the victory of Morales Bermudez reached, despite the numerical superiority of the forces
commanded by him, in the battle that I present the 12th of September. After of having killed
more than 2,000 men, seizing up to 900 prisoners, became owner of 2,100 rifles, 6,000 beasts of
burden, 700 horses with their saddles, over 150,000 rounds, large number of cattle and other
provisions of mouth, without another sacrifice on his part that the
75 people dead and about 120 wounded.

The Spanish leader fled to Urica with people who had left to expect there to Boves.

This general arrived some days later, and on December 5 forces and defeated Morales Urica near
Ribas and Bermudez. Cara cost this victory to Spanish commander in chief, as Morales picked
up his corpse on the battlefield, while Republican leaders, almost alone, from there a short
time returned to Maturin.

It was not just the defeat they had to mourn supporters of American independence, as many were
experiencing by division of views, assumptions and unworthy arrogant warlords advocates insubordination
of freedom in the eastern part of Venezuela.

Resistance was useless in Maturin could oppose Morales who escaped alive of the last melee.
The new Spanish army general, for that he acknowledged his officers, getting it all with fire
and sword, slew without mercy and without distinction of age or sex
maturinenses loyalists.

Bermudez took refuge with fewer than 200 men in the mountains of Tigre; Ribas, in company with few,
if found to Urdaneta, walked towards the region Barquisimeto. This valiant warrior captured
while sleeping in the mountains of Tamanaco his head, with the same red cap that I used to use
constantly, was taken to Caracas an iron cage and exposed to the public on the road to La Guaira.