 Piques our horses, and be found in the same site. Stupid, do not
you entusiasmáis with these things? Mira, Gabriel, we're going: this is the hill we saw from
afar the ledge that you look to the left is the steep slope of Estaria-Winobradi, where the general
led us Vandamme. But believe it was something of play? The ledge was defended by a number of Russian
troops and a formidable artillery. The thing was tricky, but when the generals say, "Onward,
ever onward" is not possible resist, and although the 17. No line there are only a third to
tell, helped by 24. Number of light at the end take the ledge, seizing the artillery. The Russians
disbanded by the other side of the hill, heading towards that village in the distance brightens
the light of the moon, which is none other than the castle of Austerlitz.

Marijuán burst of hilarity. I in my turn I could not make any comments the narrator, saying

- Lord of Santorcaz, there is not any castle, perhaps they like it wants strength the hut of
a shepherd, the only Russians who go to these places.

- You do not know if what you say - continued Santorcaz, stopping in the middle of his male path
-. We will continue to count. While the center did what you heard, back the left in the flat land
we have on this side, the cavalry carried portentously command of Lannes and Murat. Frankly,
raptors, this bit I can talk to you because I fell wounded: for a while I got cobwebs in the eyes,
and my ears heard nothing but a faint hum. But there, right, is finished off the Russians
and Austrians as more admirable. Do you not see Satzchan swamps? In the distance shines its
deceptive surface; are frozen, and the Russians, driven by Soult, rush on them. In the event,
the Emperor commanded the artillery of the guard fired some cannon on the ice to sink, and between
the crystals crumbled into the water two thousand Russians with their guns, horses, ammunition,
weapons, ammunition and trucks, rushing confusedly, without their colleagues will provide
relief, because they thought only of escaping and fleeing drowned, and staying died away by
the French shrapnel. What a terrible disaster that poor people, and what a great win for us!
We were crazy with excitement. But what I see! Gabriel, and you, Marijuán, do not you entusiasmáis?
You guys are gaznápiros. That was wonderful. Just enter fire forty thousand men, and thanks
to the great working arrangements tyrant defeated ninety thousand allies, killing them or
drowning fifteen thousand, twenty fucking thousand prisoners and twenty guns. Was there no
reason why we had become mad with our boss? Ah, guys, if you had been there when he toured the
battlefield sending collect the wounded! I think that even the dead rose to shout "Long live
Emperor, 'and when the next night we lit a bonfire on the same site where we are now, and he
came to stand there in front to meet the Emperor of Austria, like a god surrounded by a halo
of fire and having at your fingertips with lightning destroying thrones and kings, empires and
crowns.

Marijuán and I laughed, but soon we were forced conceal our laughter, because Aragon asked
the young man having very sarcastically that which was taken advantage of such struggle Santorcaz
is piqued, and threatening to punish us if we got excited as he told us:

- Fool, hounds, did peace and the Treaty of Pressburg is straw? Prussia was an ally of France,
Austria lost the support of her sister. Austria France abandoned the rule of Venice ceded Tyrol
to Bavaria, while recognizing the sovereignty of the voters Bavaria, Baden Wurttemberg, after
paying compensation in France forty million war. At the same time, pieces of cork, the Treaty of
Schoenbrunn, France ceded Hannover Prussia, Prussia to the Marquis of Anspach Bavaria and the
principality of France Neufchâtel and the Duchy of Cleves.

Marijuán and I went to look at us and we came back to laugh, which warned by Santorcaz, was because
it shook us a couple of lashes to be repeated, we would have been forced to defend, making the
spot a second Austerlitz. Rather they were to ridicule for really,
and especially did not let Marijuán situation that might vex us partner.

As contrive to find a herd of sheep and goats, Aragon said:

- Apartémonos here by the ocean to see these Austrian defeat and rusiacos
that is mandated by Parranclof uncle, Emperor of the bag and king
of the piggy, and let us go the ridge of the belly to remove the artillery
and put them in the castle.

I therefore remembering D. Quixote, looked at the sky, in which the brown dark background and torn
clouds, black as soon as radiant light, drew thousands of colossal figures size, with that expression,
while still being close to caricature, it is not know which label of solemn and awful grandeur.
Out the effect of what he had heard, were simply my fantasy should find itself ready to hallucination,
which always produces a beautiful show in the solitary and silent night, the truth is that
I saw in those irregular spots Sky squads fast running from north to south, and its mass revolt
heads of horses and their powerful chests, from a front of others, and blacks, and whites, how
to dispute further advance of the race. The scrap, several to infinity, the clouds were grimaces
of ways: I saw huge feathered hats or helmets, plumes, bands, peaks, testuces, tails, manes,
egrets, here and there with hands raised swords and rifles, flags with eagles, pikes, spears,
running constantly, and finally in Amid all this turmoil, I figured that those thousand ways crumbled,
and the clouds are clustered to form a huge two-pointed hat lamps, under which diffused glow
of the moon as they sketched a round face and sunken between high flaps, from which stretched a
long black arm, insistently pointing fixity horizon.

I watched it, wondering if the image was really terrible in my eyes, or within them, when suddenly
exclaimed Santorcaz:

- Look at him, look at him there! Do you see? Stupid!

And you want to fight this thunderbolt of war, with this messenger of God who comes to transform
the people!

- Yes, there you see! - Marijuán said, laughing -.

Is D. Quijote de la Mancha comes in his horse and Sancho Panza after
him on a donkey.

Let him come, which now awaits the big beating.

The clouds moved, and everything turned into a caricature.

VIII

The sun was soon to leave, clearing the country and show that we were not in Moravia, as Brunn
going to Olmutz, but in La Mancha, the famous Spanish soil.

The village where we stopped at about eight o'clock was Villarta, and leaving behind our males,
took a few galleries in nine hours made us walk the five leagues is from that town to Manzanares:
such was the speed of vehicles in those happy time! When we entered the village at nightfall,
we distinguish in the distance a large dust, apparently lifted by the march of an army, and
leaving the car idle, we walk in the village to arrive sooner, and knowing what and where
those troops were leaving.

They knew we were the general's Ligier-Belair, who was in aid of detachment Santa Cruz de Mudela,
surprised and defeated the previous day by the inhabitants of this village. In the de Manzanares
there was great concern, and once the French disappeared ocupábanse arming everyone to come
to the aid of Valdepeñas, near the point where it was believed a fierce combat. We slept in Manzanares,
and the next day, finding no horses or or any car, we started walking to the sale of Consolation,
where we stopped to listen the great news that there are concerned.

Constant traffic on the way peasants armed with guns and clubs, all very determined, and as the
crowd of people came to Valdepeñas in Manzanares and Membrilla neighboring towns and Solana were
not to be more than women and children, because even the useless old went to war. Finally, we decided
to attend We also show that was prepared in the neighboring town, and putting in place, soon
traveled the two miles of flat road. Long before we saw a big reach smoke spread to the wind in the
sky. The town of Valdepeñas burned by the four sides.

Pressing the pace, close to the village heard the sound of voices
long, some gun shots, but no artillery barrages.

Soon we were unable to follow the reef, because the French rearguard prevented us, and following
the example of other villagers, we depart the road, running between vineyards and fields, unable
to approach the village. In this we saw that the French cavalry was withdrawing from the town,
occupying the plain to the left, while the fire took such proportions that it seemed an immense
Valdepeñas oven. Cries, groans, curses that came out of that hell filled Scared the bravest
spirit.

At once we realized that the inside of people heroically defended the plan was to seize the French
end, burning all the houses that could not occupy. Occasionally, a roar indicated that some
of the flimsy buildings adobe had come to the floor, and dust in the air mingled with the smoke.
Debris momentarily choked fire, but it came with more force, it spreads
to houses immediate.

At last it seemed that everything was going to stop, and they said those who were near, they
left the village some men to confer with the French General. Had long the last conference, because
we saw that they withdraw or to conclude the noise and merriment inside, but after a long time
a general movement of the crowd told us that something important was happening. Indeed, the
French, replicating their horses the road, fell to Manzanares.

When we entered Valdepeñas, the spectacle of the population was awful. It seems incredible that
men have in their hands instruments capable of destroying the works within hours of patience, diligence,
interest, accumulated by the arm forces worker the years and centuries. Calle Real, the largest
of that town, and as it were the backbone that serves the other crimping
and starting point, was physically cover French riders and horses.

Although most were dead, there were many seriously wounded struggled to rise, but digging back into
the sharp points the ground, fell back. It is known that under the sand covering the pavement
artificially road, the floor was strewn with nails and iron spikes, so that the cavalry was
entered as stumbling and falling to rise no more.

A street how many objects were thrown deadly hostilities are believed suitable for dragons, and even
after the fight plowed muddy sand streams of boiling water which was mixed with blood, producing
horrible suffocating vapor. Some windows saw with corpses hanging half out, still pressing
his fingers clenched or sickle the blunderbuss. Inside the houses were in flames, the show was
more pitiful, because not only men but women and children, appeared
sewn bayonet in the caves, and if it was to enter a house, to give
aid to the wounded what they needed, you had to leave in a hurry,
leaving his unhappy fate, because the fire, not satisfied to devour
nearby room, penetrated it furiously irresistible.

In short, French and Spanish had destroyed each other with unrelenting fury, but those finally believed
it prudent to withdraw, as they did, not stopping until Madridejos. When Santorcaz, Marijuán
and I continued our way to spend the night in Santa Cruz de Mudela,
the spirit of the brave countrymen Valdepeñas had not decayed, and
trying to repair the ravages of this bloody day, seemed capable of
repeating the next day.

From far and the end of the afternoon we distinguished the column of smoke covering the sky wanderers
and dim bursts, and the Aragonese and I could not less than cursing
loudly and expressively the tyrant invading Spain.

Contrary to expectations, Santorcaz not told us a word and he made
his way deep thought.

IX

To turn the land, I fully recognize my previous healthy condition. The influence no doubt of
that beautiful country, the strong sun, travel, exercise, balanced to the point the strength of
my body, and breathed with relief, he walked easily, without feeling discomfort one in my wounds.
All trace of pain or weakness disappeared and I found myself stronger than ever. Found nothing
unusual during our transit through the new settlements, unless alarming concerns and preparations
for defense. In the Carolina and Santa Elena very scarce men, because most had gone to join the legion
formed by D. Augustine Pedro Echevarria, whose base line were the brave smugglers country. There
was, however, in the gorges of Despeñaperros enough people to stop all or most of the mails,
and at several points, bet the kids or women rough as those narrows, contact the vicinity of
the convoy so that later fall men on him. We also note a large drop in the first fields of bread
that offered to our sight, and in some places women were busy reaping
in a hurry wheats still far from ripe.

About Guarromán saw large cultivated fields burned, signal that his office had begun there
the torch of the invader horrible.

Until then there had been no bloody collision between imperial and Andalusia. Here, suddenly
seeing that, among the pilgrims and bushes of the mountains, marching the soldiers of the story,
so beautiful and yet so just cocky value, not only returned from their astonishment when they
saw disappearing way of Cordoba and only then, feeling her cheeks scorched by generous shame, they
realized that the homeland should not be trodden by foreign boots. The French found the country
quiet, and thought happily come to Cadiz, but under the hoofs of their horses grass was growing
insurrection.

Those horses were not like that of Attila, who printed label death to the earth, but on the
contrary, their footsteps, as a touch clarion call, the men were awakening and calling behind
him.

Finally we come to dance, and explain why we stopped at this village a few days. Resided there
Marijuán loves, who presented it to us begged to acompañásemos, and this significant woman, who
was Mrs. Maria Castro Gold Afan de Ribera, Countess of Rumble welcomed
us with such kindness, so we pondered the baseness of the inns and
sales the villa, we did not see fit us to pray and accept the hospitality
we were offered.

The house was huge and there was always room for us, nor excellent food and drink of the elite
of Montilla and Aguilar.

- At this time - he said the Countess - the French must have committed an act with army of peasants
who say out of Córdoba to defend the passage of the bridge of Alcolea.

If they win the Spanish, French recede to Andujar, and how they have to be very angry, commit
a thousand atrocities on the road. That you should not go here, unless intend, as my son joining
the army that is forming in Utrera.

It was not necessary to convince many reasons. We were, therefore, in the illustrious house; and
now, gentlemen, yet I will tell idle time what I remember of that clarified mansion and its inhabitants,
destined to appear in the story enough I meant.

Rumble Palace was a house of last century, looks ugly on the outside, but with all the amenities inside
that reached the times. The high brick walls; rusty bars and finished at crossings, the two
coats of dark stone that occupied the spandrels of the door, the framework around apainelado and
looked back to string date older than the rest of the house, the two windows next to a gazebo
angreladas modern; the lantern held up by heavy armor of soft iron, in the center of some
twisted initial letters and drawn with a crown around the ingot, the garrisons whitewash around
the holes, the little windows, the shutters, and the diversity and variety of Openings in the
wall, as required by the interior, it resembled all the old mansions of our great, always detached
enough to spend on Factory convents taste and money required by the facades of its palaces.
For resplendent in white toilet houses of Andalusia. He had great lower hall, chapel, flowered
courtyard, rooms with tiled plinth yellow and green pine doors, polished and plated, large
number of bunkers, many works of carving, pictures old and new some
bird cages, fine mats, and, above all, tranquility, rest and peaceful
silence that was invited to stay long in that house.

Let's talk about family Afan de Ribera, or Perafán de Ribera, who in this are not consistent chroniclers.
Ranked first in this list reverent madame widow Ms Maria Castro Gold Worry, etc., Aragon birth,
which was most severe and solemn veneration that has existed in the world. He looked older than
fifty years, and was high, thick, arrogant, manly, he used to read his books or accounts devotees
of the house, a embedded in thick glasses large frame silver, and constantly wore black, to
suit a charm to his face and figure suited. Former and the latter were of who have the privilege
of never being forgotten, because their curved nose, his hair graying, thrown off his beard, and
clear and beautiful surface of his right forehead, made it a type I have not seen another. Respect
was the image of old, preserved to educate to the present generations.

Will

the second child, twenty year old boy yet their habits, their language, their games and their
lack of science. It was the only son, and therefore, the firstborn of that noble house, whose origin,
like the magnificent Guadalquivir, went back to the fastnesses of Sierra de Cazorla, where
the first Afan de Ribera did not know what feats during the conquest of Jaén. D. Young Diego
Hipólito Cantalicio Felix had been brought under their top destinations in the world, under the
guidance of a tutor that will speak, and although he was willing and likely to shake the shell
of the child, dragging in the dust Juvenile mischief of the purple cloak of primogeniture, her
mother had gotten into a fist, as they say, and had over him all the rigors of his character.
Truth is that kid with good instincts and wit, had discovered a way for skilful maternal attack
severity, and it was that when his tutor or the Countess did not taste in something, put their
fists in the eyes began to water with tears childish twenty years of his body, and exclaimed:
"Madam Mother, I want to get a monk." These words the resolution of the lad, from being carried
on relentlessly troncharía mayorazguil leafy tree, spread panic through all areas of the house.
Sought appease everyone, and the mother said: "Do not be mad, my son. Well, you can ride a
horse on the beam in the courtyard and you let the cat you throw nutshells in four legs. "

These
two characters will necessarily those of the Marquesa two daughters, two buds, two Andalusia
flowers, beautiful, modest, small, fresh, rosy, cheerful, unpretentious despite its nobility,
singers rezadoras night and morning, two birds that loved view with
the flutter of his innocent and somewhat naive frivolous coquetry,
of themselves ignored.

Were small as Reseda, but as the Reseda had a scent of seduction is announced from afar because
steps taken at the happy one, and its proximity was sucked with delight. Assumption and Presentation
were two angels with whom they wanted to play to see them laugh and to laugh at oneself from serious
gesture masking her pretty features when his mother sent them to be serious. The younger was intended
for faculty, and while Ms Mary stroked the great idea of ??putting it into the Huelgas de Burgos,
it was agreed to take lessons needed to be a doctor, so the tutor to his brother had begun to
teach the first declension Latin he learned in no time, finding that very nice. First, that is,
Assumption, had no need to learn anything, because it was intended marriage.

And finally, I will not leave in the dark to tutor the young D. Diego. Commonly called him D. Paco,
and he was a man of great simplicity and moderation in their manners, though somewhat pedantic.
He was convinced that he knew Latin, and sometimes cited most celebrated authors, applying what
these wretches never thought to say. In such slanderous accusations is celebrity exposed!
He also prided D. Paco to teach his disciples rightly ancient and
modern history, although we know from documents of incontestable authenticity,
in their explanations never happened on this side of Noah's ark. It
was, yes, very strong in life Alexander the Great, and we can ensure
it possessed in the highest degree an art that not all men is given
cultivar with regular success.

Don Paco was a great hangers, which could compete with these giants of Calligraphy: Palomares Torío
the Sublime and the Divine, and even with the modern Iturzaeta; ability that had partly passed
on to his disciple, as the Rumble heir flat filled with admiration for the Bishop of Guadix when
he was to spend a few days at home. In addition, D. Paco was a good man, and trembled with fear
Countess before when she blamed her child's faults. He was dressed in black, always in ceremonial
dress, although not new, also using white wig, topped with huge bag. A guest outsiders treated
us very gently, for "the hospitality - he said - was special gift of ancient peoples, and should
be practiced by those present to teaching of posterity. "

X

The heritage of the house was good, although well below that of other families in Andalusia
and Castile, but told the Countess that would be the first in Spain after his inherit the
firstborn son with relatives in the collateral line of succession lacking direct.