 

With the good fortune which had not tried to move on, or following the victory thing that caused
them to lose reputation, and was the occasion to make many excesses in that region, which seriously
angry mood of the natives and Greeks. When they tried to enter the land inwards, began the
first day of November to come so severely winter winds and cold water stopped them. The rivers
and their growing without being able to wade through the barren season full of enemies, the difficult
road which was to march to succor Philadelphia, causes were enough to postpone any business. Roger with
the advice and counsel of Captains decided to winter in Cyzicus, instead accommodated by the
strength of the site, and abundance of victuals, and that next year the output was less embarrassing
than if they had to leave Greece, and embarking and disembarking of chivalry so often, something
of his so upset. Emperor then gave notice of this resolution and far approvedthe taste, it
was what suited him, having stayed in the army against the enemy, and away from Constantinople
and other Greek towns, with enough complaints and grief, but walked about three months without effect
hosted by Asia, working the land contributions unbearable. Andronico sent diligently to be carried
by sea the food they were not in place, that passed our very mild winter. Roger sent the Grand
Duke with four galleys for his wife Mary. The order which was held in quarters to excuse quarrels
between the soldiers and their guests, was as follows. The Soldiers named six of his hand and land
as many, so that seems common and put an agreement price to the victuals: for more costly out
more than just great descomodidad for soldiers, and giving them a very low price does not result
in significant damage reviews, to more missing trade and regular provision that came from everywhere
abundance. Ordenose Aones Admiral Ferdinand, who were armed to the winter to the Jio island,
safe harbor and neighboring enemy coasts. Jio is the island of the most marked Aegean Sea,
have been born in the Almaste herself, which nature denied to other parties land.

CHAPTER XII.

Ferran Jimenez of sand away from theirs.

The things of land and sea, arranged in the form that, he spent the winter with calm and a lot
of conformity, but then our forces were emaciated with some divisions and civil strife. Ferran Jimenez
Arenas, gentleman of great lineage, and a good soldier, desavino with Roger on the government
of the people, and thinking unequal competition departed with his army and return to Sicily,
Athens fell through to serve their Duke, who was grateful, and honored with military officers,
in whose service stopped until the need of his friends called him at Gallipoli and returned to
join them, venturing as a good gentleman's life and liberty.