 In these interviews, Rush sudden whim
and joyful remembering the first stages of love, tender and showed affectionate, he swore
eternal fidelity. Oh, God! What infinite happiness which felt heavenly the young entomologist heard such
oaths of those beloved lips!

But all happiness is short in this world. His, brief. The day after that rapture of love, its
owner was cold as marble, dismissive, and even worse, reserved in long talks with Escosura back corner
of the room. Innocently thought that the end of the litigation would change his luck, Clementina,
and the minister need not, would again be entirely his own, without that odious deal that he
was saddened even more that he was ashamed. Their hopes vanished like smoke. The lawsuit was finished
as happier for her, and yet, far from dismissing her official lover, every day is showing more
respectful to him and in love.

One morning, two months after the dispute failed, received a little note that said: "I'm going this
afternoon at two." He jumped up the heart. More than two weeks ago that his beloved entresuelito
not appear by the Caballero de Gracia. At one I was waiting for her. Y discerned in the distance,
ran to open it with the same emotion as if it were a queen and with much more tenderness. She
presented herself acknowledged, affectionate, welcomed their living
and passionate caresses.

After an hour, being the two sat on the small couch where so many
conversations love had gone, she gave him a long look compassionate
and said with a sad smile:

- Guess what, world?

... Today is the last day and we are alone together.

The young man looked at her with amazement, not understanding or not wanting to understand.

- Yes, ... I can not continue to maintain these relationships secret
with you .... Escosura and been warned and has rightly offended a
lot .... I also think having two lovers ugly .... That's for Lola
Madariaga. So far I've gone through it because I understand that you
loved me and that I love very much .... I also have always shown true
love. You can not complain