 The
starry sky flaunted her pale fire, earth slept quietly, and when was heard in the distance a barking
dog or the crowing of a rooster.

I remembered things and past events, evoked painful memories of childhood, grief and bitterness
children, the sad days of school, the melancholy of first love. One by one they paraded loving
relatives before me, loyal servants, friends never forgotten. In reviewing the pages of the booklet
of my life I thought I was going through lengthy, desolate street between two rows of graves
whitened here and there in the shade of willows and cypresses.

The happiness and welfare of my family in better times came to smile, to hurt with their happy
memories my aching heart. Before wealth, respect, praise, flattery.

Now poverty, distrust, contempt, forgetting .... Where were the friends of my parents? No
had only two: the kindly doctor and the schoolmaster's unfortunate ....

I found thinking about the happy days of my first love. Then came
before me white woman's figure.

Lean, pale, ethereal, ideal, that image came to remind me dear forgotten oaths, promises. Sad,
sorrowful, weeping, seemed to say: - "I offer your soul and your life, you gave me your heart,
and gave them to another .... Ungrateful!

"

And that voice had the timbre of the voice of Angelina. The vision faded away by a wind gust morning
spent shaking the tops of the orange and swinging the datura.

Follies boy! Delusions of ardent imagination! Presentiments a timid soul, of an inconstant heart!

Infinite
longing that I felt the love that filled my soul was the last of my life, desire very firm
to live only for Angelina, just for her, craving to be good to deserve love the modest girl,
to enjoy, as a thing itself, the beauty of that sky studded with stars, the thousands upon thousands
of beauty that the night had covered with their veils, and that within a few hours, at the break
of dawn, would appear in all its magnificence, that only condition would be good to me possible
to enjoy the supreme spectacle of nature, so that I will reveal all
its charms, and are not mysteries to me the sweet melancholy an autumn
afternoon, and the smiling joy of a May dawn, or the serenity burning
one-day heat wave, or the terrifying majesty of the storm, when unleashed
on high flashes livid fire with the tops of the mountains.

I believed then - poor fellow dreamer! - A rising of fire would be dull and foggy for the evil, that
the lilies of the river would not have flavors for the wicked, that the rain would silence
enmudecerían fearful their music and when to pass under its arches, vaults beneath their foliage,
stained hearts. I thought that love was the real prize and palm of goodness, and to love and
be loved, to love as tall as I was and quite understand, elevation sublime, constant desire
for perfection, never-ending aspiration at all, it was necessary
resemble the soul, so pristine and pure, the flower opens its dew
crowned corolla intact loving the breath of zephyrs.

I spent the night in the window.

Orion fell into the sunset, and the truck was hiding its stars deep in mourning cloud that
rose slowly growing in the humid valleys Pluviosilla.

Long I stood there with his face in his hands.

The dream squinted my eyes, and was I to pick, when grave and majestic bell rang the parish church.
Ringing, mysterious and solemn that announces the arrival of the day, they repeated from mountain
to mountain states the inhabitants of the mountain that has raised
Villaverde.

A bronze sacred echoes answering the river, forests, orchards and poultry. Currents Stony change
of pace, there in the thickets chorale preludes, loving flutter, and begins all over the movement
and life.

It seems that the winds are rushing to pour through the valleys the
scent of the flowers opened during the night.

The highlights of the campaign were heavy and slow .... Ceased and a moment later broke all the
towers in a ring busy, placid, playful and childish, as if convened
school crowds, as if the little angels were naughty harpers escaped
from heaven.

Masses of Christmas!

XXVI

I heard noise in the next room. Pepilla aunt had risen, and soon to call. Banged on the door, and
the answer I said:

- Let's lazy! And is dawning .... Arriba! It's time! ... If you must go with us, Arise! Did not
you hear the ringing?

And the good lady laughed and joked like a child.

Still did not stop the music of a thousand bells villaverdinas.

The Parish, serious, solemn as an archdeacon when she sings the Preface in the Mass of Corpus, the
San Francisco Seriot, circular rhythm playing, round the twist, as in the string Sunday, the San
Juan tune and shrill, the steeple of the church of San Antonio arming an uproar without as
well as in an orchestra cymbals and chinoiserie, in the belfry of
the convent of Santa Teresa bells went crazy, and the cracked bell
of Christ sounded smug and conceited to resemble a cracked tenor that
does not leave the theater.

The group was uniquely beautiful.

One ring varied and capricious, without unity or measure, so different from another that are
advertised on special occasions and holidays classics, had something the wonderful modern music
it seems that the tools are free, your account walking free, neglecting time and discipline,
fleeing from each other, but suddenly come together and agree on
rare and unique harmony that first surprised, then subjugation, and,
finally, makes us silent woods, region or celajes cloudless sky, cerulean
seas asleep.

The music of the towers fell on the city in fresh waves and spread through the valley a flooded
river way that would escape the ravines.

There he paused a moment, and then as we got up eager to return to
the heights, to soar into the heavens towards the stars that were
pale and dim light erasing the sunset.

How well this vibrant harmonized uproar in the wake of valleys and
mountains, winged people's preludes, with the rustling of the trees,
with idyllic song Pedregoso with the sparkle of the stars, and the
lowing of the herds in the nearby ejido!

Do not know why I was afraid that Aunt Pepilla knew I had not tried to sleep. Rid the intact bed
sheets and blankets stirring, took his hat and overcoat, and went into the corridor. The old
and Angelina awaited me there. Aunt Pepa very battered with the shawl, the maid, fallen on the shoulders
coat, showed her beautiful face.

- Good morning - told me shy and
timid.

I am sure that turned red as a poppy to shake my hand.

- Come on, boy ... go! What are you waiting for?

And you Angelina: Lady Jane to wake up at to stay with Carmen?

-
Yes, ma'am.

- Well, let's go, Rorra that from here to San Antonio
and we have to walk.

Far, but there go, - repeat - there are stories, and rattles, and tambourines, and string
music that plays sounds and happy parts, and the mass is not long .... How that says P. Solis!

We take up the street, a narrow and uneven pavement. Excruciating had to climb hill. The chapel
of San Antonio is in the Barrio Alto.

From there you can enjoy a beautiful panorama.

The burning lanterns with dim light. The serene extinguished their torches, and women's groups
and children were rushed to the temple.

The mother scolded the kids because they sounded their horns and tambourines, and fearing
that a precise time and others they remain dumb.

I offered my arm to the elderly.

- No, - he said - I better off alone! Give the lady ....

Angelina not refused, but I realized that accepted him for commitment. He stopped aunt Pepa
and smilingly told us:

- Nice figure! The following old heartthrobs!

Angelina wanted to unbind his arm, but I would not let him.

Find new groups that were in a hurry, no doubt to win place in the chapel. In one corner ran
into some "nacateros' their way to market heavily loaded with large pieces of bloody flesh.
Upon arriving at the square in front of us spent a milkman, riding a pony, a pitcher on either
side. He greeted us respectfully. He was young, well clearly told us her fresh and clean voice

-
It ....-- Mauricio said Angelina.

- The Santa Clara dairy .... Of the estate of Mr. Fernandez ....-- added the old woman addressing me.

When
we climbed the stairs we saw people crowded into the door. Not yet opened the sexton, and all were
struggling to put in a good place to go first.

The chapel of San Antonio, the "sanctuary", as they call the old villaverdinos, is a Churrigueresque
church, very well prepared and placed on top of a hill from which dominates the skyline.

The cemetery is bounded with a fence that has paths doors on three
sides.

Four aged cypresses give the site a burial, the true appearance of the cemetery.

Pepilla aunt did not want to get to the point where the devotees were
scrambling to break through, and sat on the top step of the staircase.

Laughed the boys, the girls chattered, scolded the old, and was a
small fry around, with incessant noise of bells and whistles of water
wonderfully mimicked the chirping of a chorus of larks.

Angelina and I approached the gate, toward the city. And no ringing
in the towers.

In each of them a high-pitched bell, urgent and shrill, called the faithful.

Not yet dawn. Villaverde lanterns glowed in the dark streets and above the rooftops like a
swarm of fireflies.

The waning sky in lights, and a peaceful glauca clear, pure and peaceful
atmosphere and as the cool breeze that rocked the cypress, was flooding
the sky.

Orion sank between the peaks of the Andes, and Ursa Major down to
the valleys of Pluviosilla.

In the region where vague dawn heralded the dawn. The whole valley revived, the Stony ran garrulous
and singer, as if its waves softly repeated the strange harmony of the chimes.

The clear skies that night almost winter was gradually losing its immense serenity. Of vague whiteness
that dawned in the eastern peaks of the soft blue-green ink everything
invaded, rose slowly, first swing and indefinable, then different
and well shaped, colored clouds and clouds of violet, through which
we saw the stars disappear between bursts of fire.

The church bells were calling the river was still singing, and whispering the woods, and came
from the forests and glens something like distant sound of orchestras mysterious ran back in the
mountains, in the depths of the mountains, unheard symphony.

Was opened, at last, the door of the chapel, and the crowd rushed into the sacred precinct.

Elbows on the fence we beheld the spectacle of this splendid entrancing twilight Villaverde
landscape lit by the red glare of the rising day on fire furnace with reflections of the colored
clouds on the horizon that rowed.

- Angelina - I cried, shaking hands with the girl - you love me forever, forever, as I love
you?

- Always! - Answered trembling .-- As today, and tomorrow, even after death!

In the dim light of dawn, it bathed in celestial clearness the face of Angelina, I crying, that two
tears rolled down her cheeks.

- Girl! - Cried my aunt from the threshold of the temple .-- What are you doing? Mass has begun!

The
girl ran to the church. The towers released the last ring, the body broke its streams of mystical
harmonies, and their solemn chords joined children's choir festival voices, whistles warblers
of tintinantes noisy tambourines.

The Mass was beginning .... Fr Solis sang with his devoted and charming little voice:

"Gloria in excelsis Deo!"

XXVII

From my house to the office of Castro Perez. After work, at about five o'clock, no gathering
in the pharmacy, no touching to hear Ms. Fernandez.

In my house, my poor house, which I looked like a castle. If anything, and that from time to
time, to visit dominoes or chatting Andrew. On Sunday, back from Mass to talk to the aunts and
Angelina, reading, to write ....

In the afternoon the patio. The maid and I Regab plants, and then we we installed the orange foot.
We cut violets and roses, and we amused ourselves in making bouquets, determined each that theirs
was the best.

Angelina used to weave a garland that mixed ferns in a wonderful way. There are variety of them
in Villaverde, and our garden grew the most beautiful. Near the fountain, on the rocks, and trunks
old, there were some who seemed feathers, silk ribbons, strips of satin.

After the play, ran to hear the verdict of the ladies. For the sick were better Mine, for Angelina
Aunt Pepa were the prettiest. The award of those contests Flower was a loving embrace of the wretched
old woman, which could only prolong hand to pat the winner. But there was always for the young
tender phrase, a compliment those trembling lips, at times made for a smile of pain.

Served after the bouquets to decorate the small altar of the Virgin, before which burned a a butterfly
all the time. Placed the offering we returned to the patio. So did
Angelina another bunch, a very cute ramilletín, to glad my bedroom,
placed in a glass never missing glass, Diamela, carmine or heliotrope
blossoms fragrant.

While the young flowers available, confident that
the aunts could not hear and that Juana had left, we spoke of our
love. Masses of Christmas gave us time to talk very comfortable. We
went, we left behind Aunt Pepa, I gave the girl's arm, and from the
house to the church that was a pleasure chatting.

More than once
begged my aunt to tell me the story of Angelina, I asked insistently
I referred to it as had been under the protection of P. Herrera, an
old man to tending in a small town flavor of the saw large flock of
farmers, but Mrs. silent, without which neither prayers nor entreaties
made him open his lips.

- But, aunt - he would say me - you remember
that when I arrived, talking about Angelina, I told you: "I'll tell
you »....

- For what - he answered .-- It is a very sad story ....

I
did not cause surprise the singular discretion of my aunts. So there
were always all of family.

Certain things not spoken in my home.
This reserve was injurious to them on occasion. Until I was twenty-five
years I knew my uncle Albert, a brave soldier who died vomit victim
in Yucatán was not my mother's brother.

My grandparents do not know
where they picked him up, gave her upbringing, name and race, and
they all believed brother of my aunts. Nobody told me that story.
Supel casually. Registering a shelf left by the wayside I found several
documents, letters from the grandfather and a copy of his will. They
read the story of my uncle, and I estimate the noble soul of the testator,
generous and selfless than most. And what if the old military was
good! And what if it was smart! What cards so well written! Concepts
as clear as that its serene Spanish lyrics and graceful.

To tell
the truth, I wanted to know the story takes Angelina, but I never
dared to speak this. She was ahead of my desires, and one afternoon,
sitting at the foot of the orange, while available on his knees a
violet beam, separating those that were withering and meal worms severing
the stem and huddled in groups, he said:

- Look, my Rorra: love me
very, very, how you want your Angelina. I love you with more love
great that it can be warm in the heart of woman, and know how to love
the poor and unfortunate. Do you ever have had the misfortune of my
life? Never? Well if you do not know, if your aunts wanted to refer
my story, listen to my lips. Perhaps I should tell it before giving
listen to your love before confessing my love. Many times I wanted
to talk about it, but or I have not had the courage to do so, or you,
with your loving words, you have distracted my thoughts. It is good
to know everything. So you can not say you never cheated