 According are these, take different names;
current calling when they exist in reality and potential when there are more than possible.
The current is divided into metaphysics, physics, and comprehensive. Metaphysics, which distributes
all metaphysical parts, like the man in animal and rational physics, which distributes physical
parts, like the man in body and soul integral, which distributes it in parts expressing amount,
like the man in the head, feet, hands etc. The potential is distributed by a whole in those parts which
we can conceive. Thus, considering as a whole the abstract idea of ??animal, can be divided
into rational and irrational. If the statement of the potential division belongs to the essence
of the thing, is called essential, if not accidental. Will be essential if the animal divided
into rational and irrational, is accidental if you divided by their color or other similar qualities.

The
good division must: 1. exhausting all, 2 ยบ. not to award that does
not have parts, 3 ยบ. not include a party to the other, 4 ยบ. proceed
with order, whether this is based on the nature of things, or the
generation or distribution of ideas.

If I say one thing from another, I am a trial, if the statement with
words, I have a proposition.

Inwardly affirm that the earth is a spheroid, behold a trial, say or write: "the Earth is a spheroid
"behold the proposition.

In any trial there is relation of two ideas, but rather of the objects they represent, what
same will happen in the proposition, a term that expresses what we affirm or deny, called subject,
affirm or deny what is called predicate and the verb to be, I express or understatement is always
in the proposition, his name is union or intercourse, because it represents link the two ideas. So
in the example above, the land is the subject, the spheroid predicate, and copulation.

If there's assertion, the proposition is called so, whether there is denial denial. But it should
noted, that for a proposition is negative, not enough that the particle does not affect any of
its terms, but it must concern the verb. "The law does not require pay." "The law commanded
not to pay. "The first is negative, the second affirmative sense is very different just move
from place no.

The propositions are divided into universal, undefined, and unique individuals, according to that the
subject is singular, indefinite, particular or universal. Every body is serious: it proposition
universal, owing to the word all. The man is unstable, the proposition is indefinite, not express
if they are all or some. Some axioms are misleading, the proposition is particularly because
the subject is restricted by the attached one. Gonzalo de Cordoba was famous captain, the proposition
is unique, by being the subject. To be singular proposition, need not be proper name, just
a word anyone who determine, as if you say this coin is false.

Propositions concerning undefined, you may wonder if the subject is taken in respect universal
or particular, and give origin to this question two reasons: 1. not
being that accompanied universal or particular term, 2 ยบ.

He notes that they use points to a sense and to other non-universal.

Indefinite proposition is equivalent to the universal in an absolute sense, if matters are belonging
to the essence of things, or any of its properties to be considered necessary, is equivalent
to moral universal, ie for most cases, if versa on qualities that demand it, and finally to particular,
on the advice of the thing that speaking. The bodies are heavy, is equivalent to saying all bodies
are heavy.

The Germans are thoughtful, not to say that all they are, but this is one of the characters
of that nation.

The propositions are simple or compound. The simple are those which express the relationship
a single predicate to a single subject: like all the previous examples. Compositae are those that
contain more than one subject or predicate, and therefore explicitly
or implicitly comprise more than one proposition.

With the classification and examples, will be better understood what
is a compound proposition. The dialectic generally falls into various
classes; will indicate the main.

Copulative proposition is expressed
by the binding of two assertions or denials