 All agreed on what he said, and broke 350 Spanish, to those who offered, if they were with
him, together Indians and take care of clothing, horses and whatever else necessary. Joyful all
admitted the offer: He called the decay, and asked them if he wanted to go to 2.000? And the point
offered to serve as were required.

After two months, our general left the year 1548, up the Paraguay River with seven brigs and
two hundred canoes. People who did not fit into the ships, was by land, with 130 horses and
he returned to gather near the high, round hill of San Fernando, 92 miles distant from the
Assumption, which inhabit the Payaguá. Did the general return from there to the Assumption
five launches with the canoes, leaving the other two with 50 Spanish, supplied for two years;
by Captain Don Francisco de Mendoza, [41] in order to stay in that place two years entrusting
had great care with the Indians, what should happen to John Oyola,
until you return.

He began his journey with 300 Christians, 130 horses and 2,000 caries, and in eight continuous
days no found a nation. On the ninth, and to the thirty-six miles from Mount San Fernando,
we in Naperús, Indians are kept for hunting and fishing. They are tall and robust. The women
are ugly, and from waist to knee bring a towel.

Four days later we arrived at the Mapais, [42] populous nation. They are so sugetos to their
principals, that the Indians needed to serve, and served in the rustic German nobles.

Have an abundance of fruits of corn, cassava, sweet potatoes, Mandubia, pacobas, and other roots
and things to eat.

There are many deer, sheep, pigs, ostriches, ducks, geese, chickens and other many birds. In
the forests there are many groups, they spend on wine making and other uses, and how walking
later, so much more fertile ground. All year there eating corn and roots in this province.

The
sheep, which they call huanacos are of two kinds, domestic and Monte Carlo, that used to load,
horseback riding and other ministries, such as use of the horses, and on this day, for being
bad leg, I walked over forty miles at a time. In Peru, carrying the merchandise in them. [43]
are high and warlike Indians, who only take care of things War: Indian women are beautiful, and
walk covers and background.

Not working in the field, before the Indians are careful to support the family, home or do more
than tect or cotton spinning, or cooking the food to their husbands, or serve in other nice things
which are also with others easily.

Mbayas came out to receive, less than half a league from this village, next to a lugarillo,
where they said, perfidious and treacherous, that sosegasemos that night, and assist us with what
necesitásemos, and to ensure the treachery which dealt generally gave the three Indian girls
four silver crowns, which tend to bring in the head, and four plates, each half inch long and half as
wide, that are placed on the forehead ornament.

We believed were peace, and we stayed at the lugarillo, and finished
dinner and sentinel sites, sleep until near midnight, the general
least three Indian cast, and looking for them, was moved the army
and the Mbayas suspecting evil, secretly ordered the dawn that they
were all in its housing prevented with their weapons, and ready to
egecutar what they are commanded.

CHAPTER XLV.

Mbayas peoples, Chan, Toba, Peyonas, Mayegoni, Morrone, Paroni and Siman. [44]

Imagining Indians we were sleeping, suddenly rammed us 2.000, which were quickly routed, with
the death of more than half, and the rest fled the village, where quickly followed them and
entered it, but did not find anyone, not their wives and children. General chased with 150 musketeers
and 2,500 Indians in a great hurry, for three days and two nights without stopping over to
eat and to rest four or five hours a night.

The third day we took in the woods many Mbayas with their children and wives, but they were not
we sought, but his friends, who did not have the slightest suspicion
that they were to them: no But they paid for the guilty, because when
we hit them, killing them and intrigued with Indian and their children,
about 3,000, and it gets dark, no escape, because all the large number
of the people gathered on a hill surrounded by forests.

I caught the 19 Indian men and women stripping not very old, and other things.

We returned to camp where we stayed eight days, because we had enough food. From Mbayas the mountain
of San Fernando, there are 50 leagues, and from the Naperús, 36.

Following the path, we came to the Indians Chanes, subjects of the Mbayas, the way that Germany to
his rustic gentlemen are in this day and planted corn and roots cultivated
in this land during the year: for when you are harvesting, another
is maturing and another is planted, and so at any time in the fields
are fresh things to eat.

From there we went to another village, whose Indians fled when they saw us and left us plenty food,
we stopped two days, at six miles we came to the Toba Indians, who had fled, and was well aware
of food, are also sugetos to the Mbayas.

We continued the journey without finding any Indians, and to the seven days to reach the nation
of the Peyonas, which is only 14 miles from the Toba. The chief of the village came to greet
us peace, together large crowd of Indians, General fervently, toilets enter the village, putting
your actual site where we received. But generally not served, and with good words the right way,
he wanted and did not want the boss, he entered the town, he had lots of chickens, geese, deer,
sheep, ostriches, parrots, rabbits and other similar, much corn and roots, that the land is fertile,
but very lack of water, and silver and gold, which we did not dare to ask, because the other
nations where we were to pass, they did not know what they wanted, and flee. Three days we stopped
to these Peyonas, and generally informed of the nature and condition of this province, and to say
goodbye gave us a guide, take us by a way that there is water to drink. And at four leagues to the
nation we call Mayegoni, where we spent a day and taking guide and language departed. These Indians
were very peaceful, and gave us everything we needed. Walks eight leagues, we came to the
nation of Indians Peppers: recibiéronos also of peace, and we two days with them, and made relation
of the nature and quality of land, with new guide we continued our journey, and at four miles
we came to another nation, not so crowded, Paroni call, will Indian warriors 3.000: there we
stopped for a day, but had little food. At twelve miles we enter another nation, whose natives are
called Siman. His people is situated on a high hill and surrounded by thorns and underbrush
as wall.

Were assembled many, and we were in war with bows, arrows and other
weapons.

His pride was short-lived, it up, deserted their people, having been
burned before, but the fields give us enough food.

CHAPTER XLVI.

Of the Barcones, Leyhanos, Carconos, Sivisicosis and Samocosis.

A 16 miles from this village, we walked in four days, arrived near the town suddenly Barcones Indians,
not knowing we were going, they began to flee, but at our request stopped. We asked food,
and promptly trageron abundantly, chickens, geese, sheep, ostriches, deer and other things,
and very glad we stopped the Indians four days, taking news from the land. Thence in three days, the
Indians entered Leyhanos, nation that lives to twelve miles from the Barcones: had little victuals,
for the locust had destroyed almost all fruit, and not spend what we had, we went to walk past
night and in four days we went 16 leagues, and came to another nation called Carconos, that although
they had suffered the same plague, had more food. Reported in a day we were, that in 24 or 30
miles, which was about the nation of the Indians Sivisicosis, find no water. Reached on the sixth
day, with great difficulty, for although Carconos provided us, were dying of thirst, some of
us, if this trip we did not find a root, which was off the ground, it went out large leaves, which
had water as firm as in a glass, not spilled, or consumed easily, and each have half a pint. Two
hours night, being close to the people of the Sivisicosis tried to flee with their Muyeres
and children, but the general dispatched a language, which were still in their homes, and without
fear any, that would do them no harm, and they did. There was great lack of water in that province
and more for not rained in three months to fill the cisterns that collect it, or had rivers, or
other beverage that makes the cassava root, thus: - They missed a mortar crushed roots, and pulled
the milky juice: if it can be water, also make wine from these roots. There was only one well in this
town, when I put the general sentinel, to distribute water to every year, according to the
measurement given by him, and even with these Providence had great work by the lack of water, and
so many, that we remembered gold and silver, everything was crying for water. This job gave me the
grace, favor and kindness many, because their distribution was not very low, but careful not missing
water and only because she has Sivisicosis war with neighbors. Two days spent in this town
and wondering if we were to move forward or become, cast lots, and went to prosiguiésemos. Informóse
the general land and the Indians said that in six days' journey would come Samocosis the Indians,
and that he would find two streams good for drinking, thus continued our journey, leading some
Sivisicosis to guides, who fled the first night leaving confusing to find the way: but you
were right, and gave the Indians Samocosis, we were in war, not wanting to hear peace: but
easily routed and fled. In the battle we turned some, they told us that in that town had been
left sick Juan Oyola three Christians, when he was in recognizing that land of order of D.
Pedro Mendoza (as told at length in Chapter 25). As to these three Christians, One was called
Geronimo, and was a trumpet, said the Samocosis had died four days the before we arrived,
brought by the Sivisicosis. Paid well this evil, as were fourteen days in town to know where
they had retired, and found that they were in a forest, but not all,
went against them, killed many, and intrigued others, the which informed
us about the nature and habits of this province and his Indians.

CHAPTER XLVII.

Maigenos peoples and Carcokies.

Among other things, the general learned that the Indian nation is four days Maigenos way. Parties
to seek, and we were in war, but strive for peace. The people was located on a hill and surrounded
by a thick cord width everywhere, so high as a man with uplifted sword in his hand.

View your obstinacy forward, with tooth decay, people of two parts: we killed the Maigenos
twelve Christians and some cavities, which served us very well, but continuing with more effort,
we enter by force, and set fire Maigenos and fled: this caused the destruction of many who paid
with their life because of their peers.

Eight days later, 500 Carios armed with secret and without saberle us, they were two or three leagues
of the real, to find the Maigenos who fled, and gave them, they fought with such obstinacy that
killed 300 cavities and large crowds of Maigenos, which were so many that ocupabon about a
league. The Carians sent to ask the general distress alerting that had surrounded the Maigenos
everywhere, unable to return or go forward.

Sent then the general 150 Christians, with some horses, and 1.000 Carias, leaving the other soldiers
guard the real, if I attacked Maigenos. As soon as we spotted the Maigenos when raised their
real and fled, and although we continued with what was possible haste, not we achieve: but
we admired the destruction they had done the decay enemies and those who had been living back with
us, to our real, very happy.

The people are in great abundance of food, so we stopped for four
days on it: juntámonos later, and imagined I was fairly informed of
the land, quality and fruit, appeared to all to continue the voyage,
and continued walking thirteen days in , to walk 52 miles, he said
those who knew the stars, we come to the nation Indians Carcokies:
hence, in nine days, we went in another province, six leagues width
and length, which was all covered with salt, so thick that it seemed
snow white, and never apart.

We rested two days on this earth salt, questioning the way we would go, but he chose the right,
and after four days in the province entered the Carcokies, and generally being four leagues of
his people, sent 50 Christians and 50 Carias, to give us shelter.

We entered the village, and saw the largest crowd of Indians, who had never found so many together,
and grief gave general notice to succor us then.

The general was launched the same evening, and came to us between three and four morning. The
Carcokies, seeing few, were for certain victory, but understanding that the general had followed
us, and were saddened by force, and to keep to their wives and children
who were in town, helped us all, bringing deer meat, and other beasts
and birds, geese, chickens, sheep, ostriches, rabbits, corn, wheat,
rice and some roots, that was abundant in the province.

Bring these Indians on the lips a blue stone, as given, their weapons are darts, spears and
shields of guanaco skins.

The Indians bring pierced lips with a agugero boy, and he a little
blue glass or green cotton dress shirts without sleeves, are quite
beautiful, spin, and care house, and the Indians till the fields and
need to care what other families.

CHAPTER XLVIII.

Guapo river and people near Peru, and part two messengers to Potosi, Silver and Lima.

We took some Carcokies by guides to move forward, and in three days' journey fled: proceeded without
them, and arrived at Rio Chico, half a league wide. We could not pass safely, and to avoid
every two soldiers made a Balsillas, or network of clubs shoots and tissues, where, taken from
the river, we could take the other side, in this step four others
were drowned.

This river is very tasty fish, there are many tigers on earth.

Being a league from the village, located to four of the river, his Indians came to meet us,
guests, in Spanish, of which at first scared us.

[45] Preguntámosles, what Mr. had, and who was its mayor? - responded that they were of a Spanish
nobleman called Peter Anzures.

In this town we found some people, and some critters like fleas [46]
who go jumping, and if they bite on the toes, or elsewhere in the
body, will and gnawing them went, to grow as worms, similar to those
found in walnuts.

If you go in time to remove them, not hurt, but if it expands the choice, you lose the whole
finger.

From Assumption to this people, according to astronomers realized
there are 372 leagues there We were twenty days, and so they got a
letter from Lima, Peru's city of the kingdom in which he lived, and
was viceroy or president, Mr. de la Gasca, who is one for which Gonzalo
Pizarro was beheaded order with other, nobles and commoners, and were
condemned to the galleys.

It sent, by order of the King, life sentence, not the general pass
forward, but to await further orders in the pretty village.

Whose detention was because he feared Gasca that if you go in Peru, and moved a sedition against
him, we would join with Pizarro's followers who were fleeing, as no doubt would have happened if we
had gathered.

In order Gasca and the general concluded, leaving this very happy with the gifts that Sent: all this
was done without knowing the soldiers that if they penetráramos, she would sent to Peru tied hand
and foot.

After the general sent four soldiers to graduate Gasca, who were, the captain of Nuflo Chaves,
Agustin de Campos, Ruti and Rui Miguel Garcia. First came to Potosi, where ill and stayed
Ruti and Garcia, after a call to Cusco, from there to La Plata, [47]
and finally to the metropolitan Lima. These are the four main cities
of Peru and opulentísimas. There Campos Chaves and sailed and came
to Lima, the President, who having heard the relationship of all the
provinces of Rio de la Plata, their qualities and people, sent them
and try to accommodate splendidly, gift with 2.000 ducats and Chaves
commanded to reenter the general, not to leave the soldiers go in
Peru, until further orders, as he had sent, and to ensure they did
not do wrong to the Indians, nor allow them detract from if there
is food. Well we knew they had silver vessels, but they were sugetos
to Spanish did not dare to take away anything