 I ask for grace.

And in deference to the interests of my neighbor, we spent the rest
of the night in white, with torn ears and looking forward to the dawn,
finally appeared.

Such was the "night of Consuelo."

There was little work in the morning together all the elements of travel, from mules to Indian carriers.
But we did not hurry, because we decided to make that day a day short, to give rest to the ladies
and children. I will not forget a little girl of 7 years Panama, that a gentleman had to Bogota
to give to their parents. Quiet, smiling always a mule trepadita capricious, made all the running
without showing the slightest fatigue. In the only head wearing a straw hat, narrow wings. In
the hard times of noon when the sun beat down, burning the skull protected by Helmuth, used
approach her.

"What do we, my dear?" - Very good, sir .-- Are not you tired, does not an umbrella? - No,
sir, thanks .-- The mule is a good way .-- And I saw the poor creature shake the chair to drive
the mules trotted possessed! Can the misfortunes of Life down on this girl, I said, find someone
to talk.

It was out of Consuelo when we realized the place where we were and its great beauty. Our night
shelter was located at the top of the first string mountain to be crossed to get to Bogota. To
all sides, deep valleys which fund is glimpsed through the mist floating
swung our feet.

At the back, wide tape and bright Magdalena, extending as far as the eye could see, the front,
a series of stunning mountains and bleak. Many times, beyond those hills appear monumental
and others far higher still, looking at my mule, whose ears flapped monotonous and lilting, wondering
if the turtle would take me to the region of the eagles!

The going was slow, because we could not release our sovereign vegetation looks which stood as
a mighty symphony, at the foot of the mountain. What trees were those? What is your name in
the Linnaean classification these infinite fibrils that intertwine their trunks, sun defending and
preserving an atmosphere of eternal fescura? How name those thousand flowers, displaying the
colors of the iris, which leans on the narrow path and wave their clusters on the front of
the traveler? I did not know, I did not know, I do not know ever. Do I need anything to know
the physical laws that determine the storm to enjoy proud of their appearance? This was a violent
mix of alpine vegetation and lush tropical flowering. Costeábamos a narrow mountain path practiced
in its flank. On the left, the abyss, guessed right, but seen through the eyes. Trees, to ground your
logs back in the lost fund, raised their glasses to us, mingled and formed a broad united and
impenetrable canopy. Suddenly, a playful waterfall down the mountain and went to feed the imperceptible
thread of water in the valley that wound. That section of road is perhaps the most comfortable, but
a few extremely steep slopes and extreme fatigue in the painful position to be preserved on
the mule, the greatest part of the route is well preserved. From 11 am, the sun began to bother strongly,
the animals are reluctant, the view is fatigue with the constant distant reverberation and a relentless
thirst begins to devour.

We approached one or two huts found in traffic, but the good women who occupied invited us to drink
the water we asked and we would be harmful. That was when we went to the juice, cane juice,
slightly fermentation, which is a healthy drink and supportive.

At half past one p.m. we were on top of a mountain that we climbed early and that it seemed endless.
From there we master the beautiful valley of Guaduas (reeds), the most picturesque I've found
my path and in the center of its whiteness shines the village that bears his name. Is that one
of the most exclusive areas of Colombia coffee cultivation, whose red grain, standing out among
the green foliage of the extensive coffee around us, gave animation to the landscape. Guaduas coffee,
like other Colombia also reputed points, is infinitely better than
the brands listed trade.

Distinguishes it as the Yungas, a unique flavor, but has no perfume Moca unsurpassed. I think a
mixture of three parts of Moca Guaduas and make a drink able to shake the old Voltaire in his grave.

Another
feature of the valley are the canes that have given the name. Some reach for many feet tall with
a diameter of 20 to 25 centimeters.

The Indians used for their resistance and weight, to make the stretcher on the shoulders carrying
anything that can not be driven by a mule, such as pianos, mirrors, machinery, furniture, etc.

Each step we encounter caravans of Indian carriers, leading the eternal piano. Rare is the home of
Bogotá, which does not, even the most humble. Families make sacrifices of all kinds to buy the instrument,
which will cost three times more than in any other the world. Imagine the freight charge hanging
over a piano factory transport Saint-Nazaire, thence to Barranquilla, twenty or thirty days,
then to Honda, fifteen or twenty if the Magdalena permits, then eight or ten men to carry on their shoulders
for two or three weeks! Hunched, sweaty, leaning on the great sticks that serve to hold the piano in
his moments of rest, these poor Indians climb slopes with an inclination almost impossible for
the mule. In such cases, the burden falls on the four back, it is necessary relieve every five minutes.
Sometimes the forces are exhausted, the piano comes to the ground and is in the middle of
the road.

Thus we have found stationary engine boilers, heavy furniture, etc.. No one touches them, and
there is no example that has lost only one of these tanks delivered general good faith.

Many times we heard the guttural cry of a pig driver pushing his flock to forward. With all latching
conversation curious feature: usually go barefoot, but have at the waist, by way of a dagger, a brand-new
pair of sandals. In addition, the flank, the eternal comb, the knife of our gauchos, long blade,
flat and sharp. The appearance of these men, covered with dust and sweat, half-naked, unkempt, hoarse
by the continuous production a guttural cry, rough and intense, it is really wild. They are
humble and patient .-- Good day, friend .-- Good morning, your worship .-- What part is? -
Del Tolima (or many ).--¿ Antioch brings day trip? - Thirty (or forty ).--¿ passed Magdalena
Where? - Facing Ambalema (Oaa Nare, etc.).

It never ceases to ask for a pint, which, once in power, becomes immediately liquor or juice,
especially in chicha (the scourge of Colombia) in the next stop.

It is a hundred Indian bent under the weight and volume pots, pitchers, stoves, etc.., clay, leading
to the back, come to me, from further afield than The herdsmen, and after two or three months
of March, they return to their village with a profit a couple of heavy weights! Rude people,
hardworking, patient, that Indian fatalism, more intense and quiet that Arabic will be an
element of rapid progress in Colombia the day land are located in its European industries. But
above all, we must uproot the Indian habit of chicha, fatal fermentation of corn, which eventually
constant use brain atrophy. In Bogotá I noticed with astonishment the sparkling vivacity of the
cachifos Street (urchins), which answers nothing desmerecerían the occurrence of a gamin of
Boulevard. Meanwhile, adult children have the appearance and spirit dead dull. The ravages of chicha
are terrible, particularly women, always clustered in door of the filthy warehouses where the drink
is sold fatal. Bloated, dirty, hesitant in the march, even the young
people have the appearance of a premature decrepitude.

Wormwood, slow poison given at least some artificial excitement, the chicha enbrutece like opium
...

Here we are at last in the beautiful Hotel del Valle, located at the entrance of the village
and only Guaduas decent shelter across the road from Honda to Bogotá.

There are, however, many people and it is necessary content with little. We spent the whole
day, because he had firmly decided not to part of my fellow travelers. And are good friends with Mimi
and Dizzy, and Little Georgy begins to stretch out his little arms.

The third day we undertake as usual, at eight o'clock, having given appointment for six, is also very
short, since we stop at Villeta, where we will arrive at three in the afternoon. It was, however,
extremely hard, because the temperature in Guaduas was delicious, rose steadily as we descended
to the bottom of a funnel in which Villeta is located. This decrease endless, along a stone walkway
that destroyed becomes impossible, the sun that beat down, the mule,
tired, walking slowly claiming the the tips of loose stones, all began
to give us fever.

In addition, we saw Villeta there in the background, almost at hand, such was the effect of perspective,
and marched after the village it seemed as we drove away.

As the path is narrow, there is not even the appeal of the conversation, it is necessary to
go one by one. Back soon, as soon later, everywhere wrong. At the time I write these lines,
though far from my land, I see and mules in the future of my life. Heaven only knows the pilgrimages
that still await me, but will never be a spontaneous act of my will to return to climb up on a
mule. Every time in my long rail travel, when after twenty or thirty hours of immobility, there
is no position and come into my mind that a bad mood we all know, I have only to remember the
mule ... to feel fresh, cheerful and willing. The one I had at that time was detestable, reluctant,
sluggish, with a limp possessed. And with a custom of the most enjoyable. As the path is narrow,
as I said, every time he comes in the opposite direction a lowering of mules loaded precautions are
endless, so as not to shatter knees to the ribs or not to go to the abyss. Well, my mule was in the
habit of approaching, of shaking from all congeners was in its path. Not scarce reprimands;
but the victim was me, that his legs and arms dislocated. The pack mules, rendered by a grueling
climb, was thrown to the ground immediately to the carriers, that guided walk and cry, give the
halt. So when my friend Soffia Chilean poet who represents his country in Colombia, came to
Honda, given its substantial and more security, was given a sturdy mule, which, without any discrimination
between a drawer ware and a diplomat, was put to the ground in the event that the rider's stopped,
so no contributed to this, increase the charm of travel.

Villeta local authorities, with some kind neighbors who had joined, left to greet us and lead
us to the hotel. At the hotel! A Bogota turns pale at the mention of Villeta site: what would
we do when we look at reality! Fortunately for me, told me that a friend had prepared me accommodation
in a private home. I there and received the most warm welcome from Mrs. Mauri, who, along with
the waters springs and a huge tree in the square, is the only thing good in Villeta, as say
the gossips of Bogota. How delightful it seemed that little room, clean as a field, serene,
quiet! There was a bed! A bed, with pillow, sheets and blankets! For a month he did not know that
luxury Asia. The sweet old lady, loving, all around me care imaginable, I brought to mind the
distant home and another shutout as head his, doing good on earth.

When the next morning arrived at the hotel, fresh, washed, rosy, my fellow English me eyes
looked fierce.

They had spent a hellish night, sharing the bed (?) With such a quantity of unknown bugs, the
two or three boxes of powder insecticide had spread as a precaution, had only served to whet
your appetite!

I started out, only, to prepare lunch in Chimborazo. At the time of road, the mule I was definitely
tired, neither spur nor whip were sufficient. I was in unknown territory at the foot of a slope with
an inclination absurd. What to do? I looked the shade of a tree, I lay down, lit a cigarette
and waited philosophically, while crickets sang all around me and the sun was rising, burning
like an ember in the sky deep purity. Fifteen minutes later, a few pebbles that rolled, I said
someone down the slope. Soon appeared an Indian riding a horse chestnut, skinny, but slim legs and
nervous. I stood in the way and my twenty paces intrigued man paused, obviously for my dress
in those exotic places. Had not yet Colombia travel suit, later I adopted for convenience. A quarter of those
officers English used in India, a poncho over guanaco (the loving companion who accompanied me
Mendoza to Chile and now has fallen to the humble couvrepieds functions in the railways) grenadiers
and boots were my toilette of the moment. The Indian opened his eyes when heard out of the bottom
of this apparition in a voice that spoke Spanish quite clearly, to make him understand that my
humble desire to change my mule was tired from his horse fresh. I do not know if it would come to
the crime, if the man resists, but, at least, was ready for every sacrifice. The Indian thought
for a long time, dismounted, made a trade frames and asked me to hand over the horse from Joe in
Agua Larga. My servant, who came ago, at the foot of the mule that was carrying one of the
girls, carry my exhausted frame. "Now, friend, fix the rent." Was turning the straw hat, pulled and
returned to put on the belt the inevitable pair of new sandals, I spoke at length about the
conditions of sorrel, which was galloping, which is rare mountain horses, etc. Last burst: Wanted
three heavy weights! Oh naive Indian, who was descended from a handful to Spanish gold by a score
of glass!

I was magnanimous and gave him five, which earned me some tips on how to accelerate the pace of
sorrel.

I finally got to Chimborazo, after transposing hills and mountains. When losing a summit I still
had a higher one, he would stop and ask if it was not a toy colossal prank. Where do I go? How is
it possible that there, behind those hills giants in those peaks are lost in the clouds, inhabit
a village, there is a city, a civilized society? I just surrendered to the eternal piano went
next to me on the shoulder pain of ten Indians panting. Up, then. I do not know if any of the
children of Buenos Aires, born and educated the spectacle of the desert always open, you have happened
on his first trip in countries mountain the same phenomenon to me, that is, Sermo An effort
to persuade that in the narrow valleys, steep slopes, live a people of sedentary habits and a
social organization similar to ours. I remember traveling in Switzerland for first time (Coming
from the plains of Lombardy), I wondered how men could cling to rocks cold and sterile, so rebellious
to human labor, instead of going to sit on his royal fertile and
generous land, where the spade is lost without effort.

That same night, Schiller I answered admirably in this dialogue between Tell and his son

Walther, showing the Bannberg .-- Father, is it true that on this
mountain, trees bleed when they are hurt with the ax?

Tell - Who told you that, boy?

Walther - The pastor noted that there is a magic in the trees, and,
when a man has abused his hand out of the pit after his death.

Tell - There is magic in those trees, it is true. You see there, far
away, those high mountains white tip which rises to heaven?

Walther - are the snowy night resound like thunder and where they fall avalanches.

Tell - Yes, my son long ago that the avalanche would have buried the village of Altdorf, if
the forest is there, above us, not serve as a bulwark.

Walther, after a moment of reflection: - Father, there are districts
where there are mountains?

Tell - When it comes down from our mountains and goes all the way down along the course the river,
you reach a vast open area where no foaming torrents, where rivers are slow and easy. There, on
all sides, the corn grows wild in great plains and the country is like a garden.

Walther - Well, my father, why do not descend to rush into this beautiful country, rather than
live here in the torment and anxiety?

Tell - This country is good and beautiful as the sky, but those who have not cultivated crop
they have sown! [11].

And Tell your child explain what is freedom. No need, indeed, in Colombia.

I understand now the tenacious and tough love of mountain for his country! Is there certainly
a community more close and constant between man and nature, in the Pampas dilated, solemn
and monotonous, full of force at dawn, noon stunning, sad at dusk,
never intimate and communicative.

The mountain is smile and comfort, the pampa weeps with us, but he cries like a giant pain
and solemn, above our pettiness human. The mountain's shape, is color, gives the pleasure of painting,
sculpture or architecture, specifically when, the pampa soaks the soul in the vague feeling
deep music, infinite, but report!

... Also loved the plain, also in it, oh, poet, casts its lively and vigorous root the tree of
liberty! ...

Chimborazo is a point on the road on which stand two or three houses, one of which is something
by way of an inn, where, after a long speech to the owner, you get a lunch consisting of a broth
with potatoes, potatoes and broth hard thin, followed by a piece of salted meat, the meat into small
pieces and pachyderm. Is another privileged regions for coffee. The temperature, determined
not by latitude, but by lifting begins to vary, the transpiration stops, cool blasts begin to
caress his face, and atmospheric pressure, becomes more faint, somewhat difficult breathing
to the lung compact air accustomed to the hot.

There, I said goodbye to the family of my colleague, the British minister, who planned to spend
the night somewhat later, in Agua Larga, while I thank my sorrel, had hoped to arrive to Savannah,
advance to Facatativá and take there the carriage, which, according to my calculations, I would
be waiting on the eve.

Never would have guessed that this robust man who shook hands warmly and I replied with gratitude,
succumbed three months later, almost in my arms, down by an icy breath that was to freeze them
in their lungs. I'll never forget the deep and quiet desperation of a young woman, beautiful and
elegant, which had been sacrificed looking for career advancement
of her husband, alone, surrounded by her little children, in the most
Far most of the world, embarking on the sad path of return, while
the body of partner I slept the sleep of death, there in the remote
high!

We had the dark soul before the corpse, thinking everyone in the country, at home so far and
the vicissitudes of this race vagabond ... Rest in the bosom friend from the local people who mixed
his tears with theirs, and according to the beautiful phrase Soffia, the same sky that would covered
his body on English soil, ground covers Colombian!

Set off, carrying with me a boy mounted, since the boy goodbye Chimba walk, whose usefulness
for the trip had been quite problematic. The baggage would forward, and according to my calculation,
should already be in Bogotá. Just wearing a bag with my roles and values.

Water the way up Long is lovely, my sorrel nobly marching, climbing the safety of the mule,
but his walk infernal. Four o'clock in the afternoon when I arrived in Agua Larga point where some excellent
road to the savannah, passable even for carriages. As there no news found not mine, I ordered
my child squire go ahead, to wait on Apple, the first point of the savanna, while I talked
some time with distinguished gentlemen of the town who had come to greet me.

When I went traveling, I felt very cold. Long water is reputed to be the site more glacial mountains.
The height helps a lot, but above all, exposure to winds whistling coming two or three openings
in the surrounding hills.

With what pleasure I threw my horse galloping along the vast road! It is an unparalleled delight
that comes undone by the passage of the mule. But one hour later, neither shadow of my boy, it was
very time must be achieved. Did the earth had swallowed? Not suit me, because I had everything
I wanted. Retrace my path, I asked everywhere, no one had seen; really
uneasy, I paused to reflect on the party to take, when an Indian I
spent suggested the likelihood that the cachifo had taken the low
road, which greatly shorten the distance. Continued quiet. Rose, rose
steadily, and again I conclude that when asked where he was interminable
climb the promised land. The nature had changed, and now my eyes stretched
vast and luxuriant forests various pines. In front, inaccessible peaks.
Would also transpose? Of Suddenly, a gasp escaped me in the chest.
As we rounded a bend, a wide flat flat, sun-drenched, my eyes dilated.
I was in the Alto del Roble, pride entrance door to the savannah of
Bogotá. I looked back and saw the distance spread the series of mountains
that had been transposed to reach that height: 2700 meters was above
the sea!

What quirk of nature that lay at the summit pampa? How is
the most ignorant eye that this should be in primitive times the bed
of a huge lake superior! Printing is deep by contrast, in vain, the
spirit is ready, the fact surpasses all expectation