 Underneath the jacket, water appeared a red ribbon and white, folded in half and subject
ends with a clasp of gold. This served as a chain to watch in his pocket pants. There was another
man who stood out more so that Leonardo, although different way, that is, they differed in
their opinions and laughed at his jests of Afro-Cubans, and the familiarity with which he treated
women, all the loves of home. Already was nearing forty years old this guy had no beard hair
was white face, with big eyes and wild, long nose, red towards the tip, indicating their little
sobriety, large mouth, more expressive. Always carried under his left arm a Rattan-handled
gold and black silk tassels. Accompanied him everywhere, as shadow the body, a man of ordinary
facade, notable for the narrowness of the forehead, moving and burning their ojicos, and above
all for his enormous black whiskers, which gave the air before that sheriff bandit, played
job then, for the other to who was nothing less than Cantalapiedra, district commissioner of
the Angel, which left tempting to wander after birth.

Rato made the music touched the sentimental and lively contra Cuba,
although still dancing, to avail ourselves of the vulgar phrase, had
not rompido.

Eager accommodated the mistress of the house to her friends and older individuals in the chairs
in the room, for except that the steps and missteps could enjoy the party while not losing
sight of the objects or care, or caring, that as young people were in the room. Pepper, clarinet,
was still standing at the head of the orchestra, playing his instrument favorite, almost face to
the street, as if it had not yet entered the individual worth music, or I would be the first
to see it go. It seemed, however, useless this care, came as no man or woman who does not have
anything to say to the step. All these greetings he invariably answered with a nod, with the
exception that when it was her turn to captain Cantalapiedra, who with his usual familiarity put
her hand on his shoulder and spoke in secret, said removing the instrument from the mouth: -
So seems, sir.

Could be noted that every time he entered a remarkable woman for any reason, violins, certainly
to honor him, pressed the arches, the flute or fife pierced ears
with the sharp sounds of his instrument, the drummer who looked very
rattled, bass, managed by the then famous toast, [7] made a bow with
his body and pulled low deepest imaginable, and clarinet executed
the most difficult and melodic variations.

Those men, it is undeniable, were inspired, and the Contra Cuba, his creation, even with such a small
orchestra, had not lost one iota of grace spicy or deep character Malicious-sentimental.