 

Jaime was not behind it. Remained motionless in the solitude of the pine, insensible to everything
you surroundings, as a legendary hero under a spell. Then he ran a hand through the face, as
if awakened by coordinating their ideas.

Dolíanle as a regret his bold words, the shock of Margalida, the career of terror that the interview
was over. What nonsense yours! ... Was the result of his trip to the city, return to civilized life
that had upset his calm lonely, waking passions of the past, the conversation of the young
soldiers, who lived with the thought placed on the woman ... But no, he was sorry for his action.
What mattered was that Margalida knew what he had so often thought vaguely in the isolation
of the tower without able to precisely to your wishes.

He went his way slowly, not reaching the Mallorquí Can family.

Margalida he joined his mother and brother. He watched from a height, when the group walked Now
for the valley towards the farm.

Febrer twisted his way, avoiding Can Mallorquí approach. He went to the Pirate's Tower, but when I
got near it went his way, not stopping until the sea.

Rocky coast, which seemed to cut peak on the water, was shaken by the onslaught of them for centuries.
The waves, as angry blue bulls, bumped from foaming rage against the rock, opening concave
hollows, caves that extended deep into above in the form of vertical cracks. This secular work was
gnawing at the coast, snatching its stone shell, leaf by leaf. Fragments Despegábanse it big
as walls. Separábanse first forming an imperceptible slit, which grew larger with the course ever.
The natural wall leaned years and years on the waves that beat incessantly base, until, lost
the center of gravity, a stormy night as derrumbábase the shade of
a citadel under siege, shedding blocks, filling the sea of ??new obstacles,
soon covered with slimy vegetation, whose entanglements boiled foams
and sizzling fish scales.

Febres was to sit on the edge of a large boulder advanced, a fragment of rock detached of the
coast that was leaning precariously on the rocks. His fatalism led him to sit there. Hopefully,
the disaster was expected at the time, and his body dragged by the
great crash, disappear into the sea, with the sarcophagus is mass
equal to the pyramid of Pharaoh ... For what lay ahead in life!

...

The setting sun, before hiding, came to a hole in the stormy sky, the clouds torn. It was a
bloody field, a host of animated purple with shades of fire the immensity of the sea. The black masses
of vapor that blocked the horizon edged scarlet. On the dark green
water an uneasy triangle spread of flames.

Enrojecióse the foam of the waves and the coast appeared briefly in boiling lava.

In the glow of this light storm, Jaime stared at his feet by throwing water fro their jets roaring in
the hollows of the rocks, bellowing and writhing with foaming of cholera in the winding streets of
the pitfalls. At the bottom of this mass greenish lit with slides of opal by the sun, clinging to
the rocks looked strange vegetation, tiny forest, in which animals moved about sticky fronds
of fantastic shapes, rampant and rapid or awkward and sedentary, with heavy gray and red armor,
bristling with defenses, armed tongs, spears and horns, giving hunting and chasing each other beings weaker
than passed like exhalations, shining in the speed of flight transparency
glass.

Febrer felt dwarfed by loneliness. Lost faith in their human significance, we considered Like
one of those little monsters that were stirring in the vegetations of the abyss. Maybe even less.
Those animals were armed for life, could be maintained by own strength, without knowing the disappointments,
humiliations and sorrows that afflicted him. The sea! ... His greatness, insensible for men,
cruel and relentless in his anger, Febrer overwhelmed, awakening in his memory a host of ideas
that perhaps were new, but he accepted them as vague memories of
a previous life as something that had already thought, not knowing
where or when.

A shiver of respect, devotion instinctively went for him, making him forget the event bit before
plunging in religious awe. The sea! ... Thought, not knowing why, in the most remote ancestors of humanity,
the first men, miserable, barely out the original animal, martyred and repelled from everywhere
by Nature hostile in its exuberance, as the young and vigorous body
cancels or out the parasites strive to live off your body.

On the coast, to the divine mystery, green and great, man must have had their best moments
of rest. The water came within the first gods. Contemplating the motion of the water and lulled
by the murmur, the man must have felt he was born in something new and powerful: a soul. The sea! ...
Mysterious organisms that inhabit it also living, such as land, subject to the tyranny of the
medium, still in its early existence, repeated through the centuries, as if they were always
the same being. Also dead sent there. The strong pursuit of the weak, and were in turn eaten by
others powerful, the same story from their remote predecessors in the warm waters of the world
still in training. All the same, repeated over hundreds of millions of years. A monster from prehistoric
times to return to fishtail in the water present would find all parties, in the dark depths
and coastal shores, the very life and the same struggles who in his youth. The beast red armored
combat, armed with curved claws and pincers of torture, the ruthless warrior green underwater
caves, never had joined funny fish, weak light and moved the train of her gown in pink and silver
waters transparent. Their destination was devouring, be strong, and if you saw unarmed, with
defenses broken without protest delivered to misfortune and destruction. The death rather
than abdicate its origin, the fate of noble birth! For there was strong on the ground and Tues
satisfactions and life outside of their environment. They were slaves to their own greatness:
the breed brought to them, with honors, unfortunately. And always be the same! ... The dead
were the only governing existence. The first people who started an action to formed live with
their actions the cage in which prisoners had to move successive generations.

The quiet mollusc was now at the bottom of the water, clinging to the rocks as dark buttons,
guardians seemed divine beings in their stupid stillness of the mystery of creation. Admirábalos August
and large like the monsters who worship the savage peoples by immobility, and guess whose quietism
believe the majesty of the gods. Febrer remembered his jokes from other times, on nights of
revelry, with the plates of fresh oysters the great restaurants of Paris. Its elegant companions thought
him crazy to hear the crazy thoughts that suggested the wine, the view of the seafood and the memory
of certain readings fragmented and fast from his youth. "We will eat our grandparents, like
happy cannibals who we are.

"

The oyster was one of the first signs of life on the planet, one of the primitive forms of
organic matter, floating still uncertain and disoriented in its evolution, on the immensity
of the waters. The friendly and mono only had slandered the importance of cousin who has not
made a career, a relative unfortunate and ridiculous that is left at the door pretending to ignore
her family name, denying the greeting. The snail was our venerable grandfather, the head of the house,
the creator of the dynasty, the predecessor loaded with a nobility of millions of centuries
... These ideas Febrer resurrected now with the freshness indisputable truths, looking at the motionless
and rudimentary beings locked in its shell, clinging to the rocks
below your feet, deep green glass trembling among the reefs.

Mankind was true to its origin. No swearing these venerable traditions of ancestors that seemed asleep
in the vast catacombs of the sea. Men free because they believe move from side to side on the
planet, because your body is mounted on two columns agile and articulated that allow you to
jump on the floor with the mechanism of step ... Error! A illusion of many that falsehood happy
life, making bearable the poverty and its small! Febrer was convinced that everyone is born
sandwiched between two valves prejudice, unscrupulous and pride, inherited from those who
preceded us in life, and more than men are shaken, never get to pull in the same rock where vegetated
caught his predecessors. The activity, the incidents of life, independence of character, All
illusion!

Mollusk vanity attached to the rock dreams, and believes to be swimming by seas of the globe,
while their shells remain attached to the limestone! ...

All things were as they had been those who have gone before them, as would those who arrived
back. Changing forms, but the soul remained motionless and unchanging, as of those primitive
beings, eternal witnesses of the first beats of life in planet, and seemed more involved in the thick
of dreams. And it would be good. Were great efforts in vain to escape the fatal environment,
heritage of the medium the circle in which we move forcefully, until
it was death and other similar animals came to turn in the same arena,
believing free because they always had before his steps new space
race.

"The dead command," said Jaime once again in their thinking. It seemed impossible that men would
realize this great truth and are shaking in eternal night, thinking to new things in the glow
of illusions that arise daily, as there is the great deception sun
to join the infinite, which is dark and we find blue and radiant light
...

When Febrer thought this, the sun was hidden now.

The sea was almost black sky leaden gray, and the mist on the horizon lightning snaked down
to drink in waves. Jaime felt on his face and touch the wet hands of a few drops of rain. Would
set off a storm that lasted maybe all night. The lightning shone each closer. Rang a distant
roar, as if two opposing fleets were being shelling behind the curtain of mist on the horizon,
approaching to it. The gentle water slides, smooth as glass between the reef and the coast, began
to tremble with ripples eccentric raindrops.

Despite this, the solo did not budge.

Remained in the rock, feeling a dull irritation against fate, rebelling with all the harshness of
his character against the tyranny of the past. And why had to send the dead? ... Why darkened the
atmosphere with particles of his soul, like a bone dust, which settled on the brains of living
by imposing old ideas? ...

Febrer suddenly suffered a dazzling impression, as though he saw an extraordinary light ever. His brain
seemed to expand, spread, as a body of water that breaks the camel oppressor of stone. It was
at the same moment a flash of light colored pale sea and thunder burst over his head, shaking
with a horrid clatter echoes the vastness Seas and the hollows and ridges of the coast.

"No, do not send the dead, the dead do not govern." Jaime, like a new man mocked his thoughts
shortly before. Those primitive beasts that he saw between the rocks, and like all animals including
sea and land, suffered slavery the medium. Sent the dead on them because they did what they would do
their descendants. But man is a slave in the middle: is your partner and sometimes its owner.
Man is an entity of reason and progress, and can modify the environment according to their
convenience. Was his servant in the past, in remote ages, but to dominate in part to the nature
and power exploit it, tore the fatal kind of wrap that other beings are prisoners of creation.
What could I care about the environment in which he was born? One would think if he wanted another
...

Could not continue in his reflections. The storm had, exploded on him. The rain dripped the
edges of his hat and ran along his back. The night had come soon. In the light of lightning
could be seen the sea with the matte surface shaken by the Clash
of the rain.

Febrer went to the tower with all the lightness of his legs. He was, however, happy, with the
overwhelming joy of leaving a long imprisonment and the eyes do not see enough space for their
contained activity. He laughed without stopping in his career, and flashes of lightning was surprised
several times moving his right arm with one finger raised, while
shocked left hand on the bottom of the elbow, by a wave of popular
protest as little decent.

- Do what I want! - Shouting, taking pleasure
in hearing his own voice among the din of The Tempest -.

Neither dead nor alive send in me ... Take! ... For my noble ancestors! ... Take! ... To my
old ideas, for all Febrer! ...

Repeated several times with an unseemly gesture urchin joy. Suddenly he was involved at a red light
on his head and burst a cannon, as if the sea had just assumed a pulse of immense cataclysm.

-
Has fallen about - Febrer said referring to exhalation.

His thought, occupied by the memory of the Febrer, went to his ascending the commander Don
Priam. That explosion of thunder reminded him of the diabolical fighting hero Knight's Cross religious,
mocking God and the devil, who always made his sovereign will and as soon fought alongside his
men as he lived among the enemies of the Faith, as their quirks and
hobbies.

No, for he did not deny Febrer. She loved the brave commander, was the true ancestor, the best
of all, the rebel, the demon of the family.

Upon entering the tower lit light, wrapped in coarse wool haik of which served to their nocturnal
outings, and taking a book wanted to be distracted from his thoughts until Pepet dinner will
go up.

The storm seemed to be established on the island. Rain fell in the fields, making mudflats,
jumped on the slopes of roads, as overwhelmed ravines soaked the
mountains, and large sponges, the porosity of green pine trees and
bushes.

Rapid showed flashes of lightning instantly, like a dream vision, black sea with boiling foam,
flooded fields, which seemed full of fish of fire, brilliant trees under their aqueous layer.

In
the kitchen Can Mallorquí Margalida's suitors were a mass of sandals muddy bodies and smoldering
for the evaporation of wet clothes. Tonight courtship would be longer. Pep, paternal air,
was allowed to wait after atlots passing the time of courtship. I
felt sorry for those boys, forced to walk in the rain