 (None of these reasons bring change in Spain today. Economists explain why
this is, so.) The fourth point, and perhaps the most powerful, is that our century, being more civilized
is also more spiritual.

And here, I cannot help but to condemn the ridiculous habit of accusing our century of materialism. What
century has ever been more spiritual than ours? Music is an art more spiritual than all others
and now blossoms with extraordinary prosperity. There is hardly a fool, who, had he lived two or
three centuries ago would have had not enjoyed more to eat and not enjoyed, or at least say he
enjoys listening to much wiser and complicated music. Juan Ruiz, Archpriest of Hita, afirms that
there are only two esencial things that drive man: namely: sustenance, and another I will dare to
mention, although the Archpriest lies, shielded by Aristotle.

If,
it is said to me, to be my fault; the grand philosopher said to him;
I am not to crawl.

    
    

As was the concept of materialism of a fourteenth century Catholic priest in Catholic Spain, regarding
the essential motives of human actions. Out of these motives, other actions were not discovered.
How things have changed today! The music also moves a man and there are none who do not like
to go to the Royal theater.

But, the spirituality of our century is artificial, and this is the reason why some, who do not understand
are accused of materialism in our century. In the past, it did not matter and the case was left
at home like something lost and given to the devil, those in the mill falling, of which as subjects
mistreated and punished rebelled where the people came to take in the most cruel asceticism. In our time,
the people attempt to rehabilitate the matter, with words that feel good, and they purify when
they are able. At last, the matter is the work of God, and, although some are perverted by sin, there
is no thing as abominable as insurance. In the end, they have been resurrected and go to heaven,
yes, well transfigured and glorious. Because of this, it does not seem bad to me that we go polishing,
perfecting and subtilizing this beautiful world. To shine it, some men in certain developed countries
wash all day, a rare custom unknown in Christianity a hunred or two hundren years prior, against
which the piety of Mister Veuillot and other holy fathers would vehemetly denounce. Because of this,
they would not understand the significance of the priciple surrounding the ode of Pindaro:
High gift is water. Rather, water was looked at with horror and fear,
as the major cause of evil, above all, for persons of a certain age