 The tradition of race, selection secular
consciousness of high social position which is necessary to keep unimpaired, the fortune away
from the little miseries withering body and soul, behold the elements that combine to produce
women who pass before my eyes and those men strong, graceful, correct, I admired yesterday at
Hyde Park Corner. The aristocracy, under that light, is an elegance of nature.

The predominant feeling in the traveler enters the Vedic temple ruins India, walks her eyes
for the magnificent relics of Saqqarah Boulaq or even more than visit the ruins of the Colosseum
in Rome, is a mixture of devotion and awe, a feeling purely objective, if I can express myself well.
Our moral nature is not compromised in print, because those worlds have completely vanished
and their influence is imperceptible to the human ways of this. Not when running under the
arches Westminster, not when it rises quietly to occupy a place in the bar House of Commons
that the walls retained the echoes of the more generous accents higher than have come from
the mouths of men for the benefit of the entire species. In vain warn the spirit, alarmed by
the intense emotion that the memory in the heart awakens obscuring the view, in vain warned
that English history is but the development English selfishness, that these liberties so dearly
won, were only the English people, who for centuries lived on the British island walled, without
influence none over the destinies of Europe and the world. The thought is built on this approach
aside narrow resolution detail to see the whole. Then it is clear the slow development of free institutions
has been made in that place and The word light has gone out of his breast, at the right time, to
enlighten all men ...

Light penetrates through the glass ceiling, the room is small and
uncomfortable, with a certain temple and school.

Members sit on long benches narrow, undivided or tables in front. The speaker is tucked into
a niche similar to those in the bottom of which shines a Mongolian deity. To his right, the
first bank, the ministers ... I look with deep attention that humble seat. Many great men have engaged
in mud time! Many powerful spirits, restless, subtle, skilled, have excelled from there! I think
see the sardonic smile of Walpole, with his mischievous eyes looking to the world that dominates
degrading, the elegant look of Bolingbroke, Chatham theatrical majesty, restlessness, Addington
insufficient, the indifference of good taste of North, thoughtful, tired face Pitt, the noble
face of Fox, the stiffness of a Percival or a Castlereagh, virile Canning figure, the honest
and serious Peel, thin and bold face of Palmerston, the crafty Disraeli's face, and many, many others
whose names are thousands, each with his retinue own. In another bank that was sitting Burke,
dark day for Fox, that Hurricane of the French Revolution, saving the strait, broke for ever the
bonds of friendship sacred linking the two tribunes. There Sheridan fell, exhausted, eyes opaque,
the livid by the excesses of the orgy, and there got up to scream at Pitt, to whip face with
this phrase that arch like a whip: "Yes, no English blood has flowed in Quiberon, but the English
honor has run through every pore! "There Wilberforce beyond Mackintosch ... How to remember
them all? But there they are: his spirit hangs over this gathering of men, and Aliens who do not
have the habit of that show, create view, create even hear their human voices. In the bank ministers,
Gladstone, Bright, Forster ... But the last Roman dominates all. It concludes for now the long
line of great statesmen in England. Beaconsfield inheritance is still vacant between the Tories,
what is the Whig to be covered by the armor of the old Gladstone, and leaning on the tomb?
What is the arm that will move the sword overwhelming? Not available in British soil, as nothing
in the house of Brunswick a prince capable of lifting the shield of Plantagenet. The England
knows, and eagerly follows the last years, the last lightning of that spirit of unparalleled intensity,
the latest efforts of this extraordinary intelligence has saved the limits set by nature.
Helo there: he has worked in his office 12 hours consecutive, in finance, foreign policy, with
eyes fixed on the inside Asia, where the protégé of England at this time gives the field a successful
rival; at the southern tip of Africa, where the rough Dutch peasants challenge again English power,
and an hour for lunch, and then to the House. His eagle's head is leaning on the chest. "Rest?
Do you meditate? No, listen to the opponent who challenged his magnum opus, his will political,
this "bill of Ireland" with him who wanted to counter the rich stream three centuries of pain
and bitterness, the bill that wants to change a system in a day and petrified, as the generous Turgot
wanted to change the old regime in France, their "provincial assemblies' ... Suddenly, a tremor
shakes his body, raises his head, look at all sides, and at last, leaning the body to quickly get
up, so the Challenger has been completed. A nervous murmur runs through the assembly. Hear, hear! Gladstone!
M. Gladstone says turn the speaker. Prime Minister takes the first hat that has hand, since
no one can talk open and stands. How the Irish crowd on their small group on the left! The small
figure of Biggar, a sort of Pope, is noted for his mobility. Parnell is there, has already
spoken. If the political heritage of O'Connell is heavy, the tradition of his eloquence is overwhelming
... Let us listen to Gladstone: first, the moral authority, man's undeniable the assembly. Liberals,
Conservatives radical, independent, Irish, everyone listens with respect. Speak clearly and
High: exordium has cut its Greek and sarcasm is wrapped in bitterness have dark lived so many
years to reach the time when the vaults of Westminster heard the words just hurt his ear painfully.
Gradually, the tone goes down, and finally making your melee opponent, narrow, harasses, the
models between their hands, and giving a shape deformed and stunted, submit it to the mockery
of the House, as Gulliver in a Lilliputian. The victim struggles, interrupted with a steely
sarcasm, Gladstone, sign of access to the interruption, took a seat quickly, but seeing the
dart drop at his feet, as if it had been thrown by the hand tired of the old Priam, she takes
her time, and Achilles' arm, throws it against the one who leaves stuck and immobile for many
hours. Oh! Word! Sublime manifestation of human strength, the only element capable of shake,
drive, crazy, herds of men in the dust of the earth! You harmony verse, the pervasive influence
of musical rhythm, the form of artistic marble the color of the canvas divine. And among the
streams of light, waves of melody, harmonious forms as Greek meter, go the sarcasm of Juvenal,
Martial arrow, the Swift incisive edge, or the blunt force of the sublime Junius anonymous!
...

There are more profound difference between the social and urban aspects of Paris and London that
between Lima and Teheran. It seems incredible that just a half hour navigation, space a man
to swim through, to operate such a complete transformation. Out of a street Paris to get ten hours
later in London, to examine the appearance, the face moral of the Thames, having spent a couple
of hours studying the movement of the Seine, gives the feeling of having transported in Ariosto's
hippogriff to the region of the Antipodes.

I never tired of flânerie on the streets of London, there is no more eloquent and instructive
book on the political and social organization of the English people. No attempt to describe of
what they've seen, felt, because the pages that follow one another as memories crowd, and I have
already hurry to leave Europe and plunge into the far reaches of tropics.

But still I have traveled this fast that the British Museum, we use
three or four hours with Emilio Mitre, whose artwork unique and high
intelligence make him a wonderful companion for hiking.

What a struggle that, one against another, but both almost always against ourselves! Tucked in Nineveh
and Babylon, the running time insensitive, while Egypt, a few steps, looked at us seriously
with the big eyes its stone sphinxes and we could hear the horses pawing the Parthenon marbles
in the Elguín Lord ... What impression did not register great and pompous that preserves style
memory of the glorious deeds of a Rhamses or a Sennacherib, but those
simple red bricks, which, now fifteen or twenty thousand years, a
humble recorded in Assyrian characters cuneiform the terms of a contract
of sale or dark writing a mortgage!

The details of life at those times when men had to a configuration skull different from ours,
and therefore, moved his mind in different atmosphere, We called more attention than the stories
of the flood, which the sages have banished of the old walls of Nineveh with shouts of enthusiasm.
Then, the inimitable Greece, and in it, the inimitable Phidias. Below, the sovereign pieces of
the Parthenon, above, aerial figurines terracotta found in Tanagra. There are more than ten
or twelve inches high; but what perfection, what exquisite delicacy! How, under those veils
that cover as vestal robes, looks, feels harmonic motion of the body! A cramped, others up and
those ... Remember, Emilio, Creole blast enveloped us? ... Playing the tobacco! Yes, hunched over,
a delightful statuette avidly follows the turns of the small bone patient waiting while your partner's
turn. Look closely and we noted that taba otherwise had cast lots. What about autographs? How
to get rid of the windows that contain them, how to put out the eyes of the living portrait of the
great men, whose hand seems to beat even in the wrong piece of those lines but firm? ... And all
that marvelous museum, center, core, panorama, of the human spirit in time and space! There
is no source of pure sensation, higher than the contemplation of these artistic treasures and scientific,
penetrates the soul, indeed, a deep disappointment when the deficiency intellectual preparation
makes a marble is dumb for us, but certainly Intelligence horizons broaden at each visit to
such a world.

A visit to Brown, that sways gracefully in the waters of the Thames, at the height of Greenyde.
One object of my trip to England was to see the great ship in Argentina. The pavilion floating
in the stern filled me with inexpressible emotion, it was increased by the warm welcome received
from the officers in Argentina, with its worth Commodore at the helm. We visited the vessel all directions,
I explain its wonders, it tells me that European curiosity aroused by their new building and
while I contemplate their guns powerful flanks steel, the torpedo, machine guns, all these
barbaric elements of destruction, remember with joy that many years ago, Argentine warships
sail the seas, without peace, which is our aspiration and our wealth, has been troubled. Be well the
fate of Brown, that their guns do not thunder but the days of exercise, your flag respected
and loved by all peoples of the earth, not ever ize the mast are war, and if the attack makes
it inevitable that the chest of the men who made is as strong as
its iron scales, bury it in the ocean prior to lowering the flag white
and blue!

I spent a few days in Paris preparing for the long journey and saying goodbye to the comforts
of that life which, once proven, with all its subtleties and intellectual all material comfort,
it appears as the only logical existence for man on earth. What a mistake, how sad mistake
of those who do not see Paris but through the prism of its pleasures brutal and unnerving! What
is irresistible precisely this center is its atmosphere high and pure, where the vigorous spirit
breathes the air of the heights. Science, arts, letters, have there its noblest representatives,
and an hour at the Sorbonne, at school in France or in the Normal School, do more for our
intellectual education a month of reading ...

We flew over fields in the Vendée, the homeland of Larochefoucauld and d'Elbe, Cadoudal and
Stofflet, the land of the chouans where Marceau made his debut, which is Hoche covered with glory.
We have been made to change trains two or three times, which puts
us in a mood hell, and in the morning we arrived in Nantes, the train
crosses a slow pace.

Behold the countrywomen Breton with its characteristic white veil, with their stems thick, that is the
famous river, the scene of the Carrier noyades, Barbarian horrifying memory over time. We are
birds of passage, and for my part, I regret not having a couple of days to devote to Nantes, but
as I have merely cross it, go ask desist from annoying any data to guide and I hasten to get the nasty
port of St.-Nazaire, the French Guayra, as he called the secretary when the comparison was known
on the shores of the Caribbean. In the line of Orleans, would come at five o'clock, in the
West, after a trip fastidiosísimo, arrive at ten. We lost more than two hours to get our luggage,
and finally, all in order, we moved to the town of Brest steam, waiting, tied to the Dock and
the hot boilers, the time of departure.

I take pleasure in remembering that world still on board, so diverse, so complex and so different
which was used to find in the seas that surround the eastern part of America.

The journey is long, as St.-Nazaire to the Point-à-Pitre in Guadeloupe, not used less than a fortnight.
But during those two weeks, the animation is not a time fainted Ville de Brest, and good humor
knew why make a joke to the detestable food given to us.

Behold, the Azores, halting last pearl in the ancient and splendid Portuguese crown. The captain,
a compliment, it deviates slightly from the path and releases the ship between two islands, which
looks green, happy, killer breaking the monotony of the ocean, love the look and lifts the heart.
Both are neatly cultivated, and human effort holds on all sides of the mountain. We aim to
delight the moment laden atmosphere plant emissions, and then the
group of islands begins to get lost in the horizon, fading as an illusion.

We

are in the tropics, the heat begins to be overpowering and long hours that extend lunch at the food,
are really unbearable.

Most of the passengers, even the new governor of Martinique, crossing the sea for the first
time, and the crew, with the permission of the commander, organized tropical classic function
of baptism.

I could not figure out where it comes from that party property, some assume that was a resource
used by Columbus to distract the troubled spirit of his teammates. The fact is that low mood
brightens the monotony of navigation.

Tell it would be very long, from the time when, climbing on top rope, a messenger Tropic parent
questions directed to Commander, until the next day that the function develops and said character appears
in two sailors riding hunched over, covered with a bull's skin, which
remained in that attitude for hours.

Speeches are original and spark of the coarse salt gala, then comes the baptism is to receive
on her head a little water out of a huge pile of rubber and having a mock shave.