 

The president asked with terrible severity:

- Are we in a cultured or between Hottentots?

This question thus formulated, produces deep impression on the public.

Suarez, a little pale and agitated voice said at last:

- If the Assembly wishes, I am willing to sit down.

(No, no! - Continue! Loud and sustained applause the speaker.)

The outrage against the switch rude grown to the point with these humble words, threatening cries
are heard and many shake their fists in front of the site which had left voice. Alvaro Peña,
the Greek orator, more angry than anyone end up in the pan and slaps and kicks to the unfortunate
Mechacan throws the applause from the theater public.

Calmer and the waves, he continues. Makes an excursion into the field of history for Sarrio show
that, since the time of Roman domination, when Spain was Further
divided into Citerior and then in Tarragona, Andalusia and Lusitania,
to our days, had shown in all cases a very powerful genius of the
people above Nieva.

Such statements were greeted with cheers of approval samples. Introdúcese then suddenly in
the domains of law and knowledge boasts rare Sarrió especially in science and Papiniano Tribonian.
At some point, modesty that great credit, said:

- What I have said, gentlemen, has no scientific value.

Any child knows that has greeted the Pandects ...

Don Jeronimo de la Fuente, a master of first letters of the town, which was studied by modern methods
and knew something of Froebel and Pestalozzi, enlightened man, who had written a handbook of
irregular verbs and had a telescope on the balcony of his house always pointing to the sky,
rises from his chair, and smiling with great shame says:

- The palm
leaves many years ago have been removed from schools.

- I have not
said clapping, I said Pan-dec-TAS - replica Suárez smiling much more
pity.

Don Jerónimo reddened by the faux pas just given.

He continues and ends at the end, wishing, as eloquently assistant marina, which Sarrio awaken
to the life of progress, which comes out of the lethargy in which it lies, and that somehow
manifested in its enclosure the struggle of ideas always fertile, and look at its horizon bright
sun of civilization.

"... If true, as I have understood that through the initiative and generous patriotic a respectable
character of this town, is preparing it the advent of the fourth
of modern states.

If it is true that soon will be equipped Sarrió a newspaper reflect their legitimate aspirations,
that is the arena where they exercise their minds, the protection of their dearest interests,
the advanced guard of peace and rest, the organ, in order, where to contact the spirit world,
congratulate ourselves, gentlemen, Heartily congratulate ourselves! and also congratulate the
distinguished patrician by whose efforts will reach us a ray of that shining star of the nineteenth
century called the press. "

(Bravo, bravo! All eyes, eager to become president. The face of Don Rosendo shine full of majesty
and sweetness.)

After Perinolo son, sought and obtained the word Don Jeronimo de la Fuente. The illustrated Professor
of first letters, ardently desired up to the public eye after the fall of Pandects. Then he began
saying that was full of worthy ideas He (note that said not eloquent or illustrated, but worthy, worth
nothing more) that had preceded the use of the word he intended by his profession to light the
torch of science in children's minds, could not be decided in favor modern developments, especially
the press. In corroboration of these words, believes in the case say that, as soon as the creation
of a newspaper was Sarrió a fact, would have the pleasure of exposing their neighbors to solve a
problem which today had believed insoluble, that of 'trisection of angle ", which was dedicated
many efforts and vigils, and other crowned a fortunately for the best success. Spoke then great
opportunity for some areas, physical geography and astronomy, explaining
some problems of celestial mechanics, in particular the law of universal
attraction, discovered Newton, through which the planets orbit the
sun in elliptical orbits.

For this purpose brilliantly exposed what was an ellipse. Finally, speaking of our satellite
the moon, noted that the time of its revolution around the earth was significantly decreased,
indicating that its orbit is narrowed. This, according to the speaker, would result in later
or earlier than the moon fall on earth and both would shatter. Don Jerome sat down, leaving the audience
very agitated, under the weight of this terrifying prophecy.

He advanced to the footlights in the next breath, Mr. Rufo, the physician of the town, thin man with
Bucket beard and gold spectacles. A few words explicitly stated that, in his opinion, thought
is not just a physiological function of the brain and the soul an attribute of matter. But, what part
of the brain lies the focus of intellectual activity? - Wonders he .-- In his view, this activity
is centered in the "gray, brown or yellow" and certainly not in the "white matter" which is
nothing more than the driver of such activity. He spoke after the dura mater, the hemispheres of
the frontal, parietal and occipital of falx and tentorium.

At this point he had a happy occurrence, beautifully comparing the convolutions of gray matter
to a lot of guts thrown at random. All the powers which we call the soul, are only functions of
this substance gray, this pile of intestines. The brain secretes thought as the liver secretes
urine, bile and kidneys. He concludes that, as humanity does not penetrate of these truths, you can
not leave the state of barbarism in which it lies.

As never wanted to be less than the doctor, asked to speak veterinary
professor Navarro.

After spending a few words to welcome the holding of that meeting (none of the speakers failed
to mention the buzzword) presented some very reasonable ideas about the pig gangrenous angina and
prophylaxis. He stumbled, mumbled, sweating to cast their thinking. But the deficiency of
expression, dutifully made up for novelty and interest that the subject offered. At the time of
angina were dying in Sarrió, enough of those cute animals.

The public, though he listened with respect and affection this news
about the disease who complained at the time the swine, and was eager
to hear statements the president.

After the mention of the son of Perinolo the issue of the paper, all eager to know what was
true. While lecturing Navarro, came a voice from the pot crying

- To speak Don Rosendo.

And while the public punished with a strong chicheo this rude interruption was unanimous the view that
Navarro as he "had no conditions."

Finally Sarrió remarkable man, the bearer of all the progress, the illustrious Don Rosendo
Belinchón patrician, her breast rose majestically above the table.

(Hush, hush, hush! - Keeping quiet, gentlemen !--¡¡ !!--¡ Attention Please, a little attention!)

These
were the cries that came from the crowd, but no one had dared to
lift a finger even.

Such was the eagerness to hear the word president.

Like all really high-spirited men and biting wit, wrote Don Rosendo better than talking. However,
his word was a hallmark of relaxed grandeur in vain would look at the speakers who preceded him.

- Gentlemen (pause) I thank all people (pause) who have come this afternoon (Pause) to the meeting
which I had the honor of calling (pause much longer during which sounds are noisy). I have a
real appreciation (pause) to see collected on this site most enlightened people of the village
(pause) and all those who for one or another concept worth and mean something.

(Bravo, very good, very good.)

After this exordium as flattering welcome, said that what he urged in the time was "raising the intellectual
level of Sarrió." Then he added that his purpose convening this meeting was not one to raise
this level. (Prolonged applause.) To carry out such an enterprise had no strength and sufficient
merit. (Yeah, yeah. Applause.) But had he believed to have at least, with the help of many
powerful men of heart and patriotism, intelligence and progress Sarrió contained. (Samples of
approval.) Believed the most effective means to raise the height
Sarrió rightful, and make worthily compete with other towns, and even
less important maritime cities, was creation of a body that would
support its political, moral and material ...

- And, gentlemen (pause),
but have not yet been edging all the difficulties (pause), I have
pleased to convey to this August body ... (Attention, gossip, gossip.

Silence!) That perhaps in the month of August ... (Bravo, bravo! Noisy, frenetic applause that
interrupted the speaker for some time.) that perhaps in the month of August (bravo, bravo! silence!)
Sarrió the village will have a biweekly newspaper. (Thunderous applause. Navarro throws his
top hat to the scene. Some other viewers follow suit. Alvaro Peña and Don Feliciano Gomez, picking
up and return them to their owners. The appearance of Don Rosendo shines with majestic expression,
his lips, to contract with a happy smile, let see the two symmetrical rows of teeth, eloquent
testimony to the progress odontálgicos.)

- Despite these demonstrations
of affection that I thank to the bottom of the soul (pause) the pride
does not blind me.

The scarcity of my strength (No, no), my lack of enlightenment (No, no applause) will cause the
body blows certainly does not correspond to the expectations of the public. (Voices from various
sites: If you shall! We are confident. Applause.) But if you (pause) lack of intelligence
may be supplemented by faith and enthusiasm, will certainly now. My humble pen and my little
fortune belongs to people of Sarrió. (Samples vehement approval.)

The new paper, as he had "a great mission to accomplish."

This mission was to raise the reforms, the progress that the town claimed. The need for these
reforms and this progress was "the conscience of the world." The covered market was made it essential.
The road to Rodillero was the constant desire of both peoples. As for the public Macelo Rosendo wondered
in amazement how the town could agree that there was an outbreak of filth like this, it was "a true
standard of shame. "

Gabino Maza had been listening with marked contempt and disgust from his chair, a few had made
use of the word. Stirring as if the seat had spikes. He came forward appalling yell at the speakers:
"Donkeys, donkeys!" as he used to do in the Saloncillo, fulminate against them or one of those
ferocious sarcasm raised rash. "Those antics" had stirred the bile. It was a miracle. We know
the great virtue of segregation the liver of the former Marine had. Breathing hard, smiling
sarcastically, gritting spitting teeth and often, thus showing their disapproval of what had been
said, what was being said and what was said. From time to time, let out a bah! or some pouh!
or so! and other particles no less significant. Finally, in the middle of the speech of Don
Rosendo, or because nothing could oppose his grave eloquence, or
because the noise of the applause will be exacerbated so irresistible,
it is certain that out of the room, and began to walk through the
front door of the theater in a state of agitation regrettable.

A few times, went back inside and went to the pan.

There, listening to Don Rosendo touch the point of slaughter, sought
to please the populace to let him pass.

Once in the front row, cried stoutly:

- This does not play clean wheat!

Then he retired.

We do not know what it is, but it is certain that whenever a meeting is suggested by the idea any more
or less free play there is no clean wheat, this statement produces disastrous effects. This is even
more remarkable, since generally in assemblies has no wheat in their
pockets, neither clean nor dirty.

And if by chance any take him, it is certain that not even the thought would play with him.

Don Rosendo, on hearing the sentence, was suddenly silent and pale.

A loud murmur of surprise ran across the field of theater. Some shouted: - Out! - Others said:
- Chis, hush! - The eyes of all, after scrutinizing the heights of
the pan, they turned to the presidency.

Don Rosendo still troubled, and voice slightly hoarse, said:

- Gentlemen, if those words are to say that I, in convening this meeting, I have harbored some
thought bastard, my delicacy does not allow me to continue on this site, and I retire ...

- No, no! Continue! Long live the president!

- I am sure, gentlemen - he said, visibly moved, - that the individual he shouted not Sarrió neighbor,
was not born in Sarria, Sarrió can not be!

Having grumbled one that the switch was de Nieva, was assembled in the theater terrible confusion
and noise.

A formidable cry of: - Death to mazaricos! Sarrió Viva! - Rises of all parties. It should be noted that
in Sarrió were called residents because mazaricos Nieva perhaps the large number of birds of that
name there is usually there, while Sarrió Nieva finches were called
in for the same reason.

Finally appeased the spirits, Rosendo and gives thanks to public bodies.

- Prior to taking over this seat of honor (the president had retreated
to the back of the stage) I have to say that if the parrot ... or
Mazar (laughs) aims to snatch a statement about the problem of public
Macelo, I have no objection to it, because I do not clothes hurt.

(Viva, curiosity. You do not hear a fly fly.) I solemnly declare, gentlemen, the new Macel,
in my opinion, it must be placed elsewhere in the dump. (Immense sensation.)

He ends with a few words his great speech, and adjourned. Viewers leave the theater half asphyxiated,
both for the many emotions that were soon experienced, for the thirty-eight degrees Celsius was in
the room.

IX

A TALE OF TEARS

This happened at the top.

In the dark domain of privacy occurred at the same time, some events,
although not as memorable, were not without importance for people
involved in them.

The day after the interview and Gonzalo Venturita, we have described, he did not visit the house
of his fiancee. He remained in his, pretending to be afflicted by a severe sore molars. Such was
at least the news that reached Cecilia Elvira through the Maiden he saw the servant of Don Melchor
in the square. The next day, and did not appear either, assumed that the family was still pain.
No doubt more than Venturita and Valentina. The embroidery fled to stumble upon the look of the
girl. Maybe I would fear embarrassing, perhaps she herself felt embarrassed without knowing why.
Venturita was as cheerful as ever. Cecilia who only knew him a bad mood when he spoke less, out
of his comfortable toothpaste elixir, copied a prayer to Santa Poland had given him, and calling with
Elvira mystery to him said all flushed:

- Elvira, will you oblige me to take this bottle and this form to Miss Gonzales?

- Right now?

- When you can ... If we do not have to do ... I would not be whole ...

- Rest assured you, Miss - pale brunette said, smiling gently, - nobody will know a word. Her
mom is sending me for starch, and back, wham! I fit there.

Gonzalo Upon receiving the message, he felt sharp seized with remorse.
Began to walk restlessly in his room. Three or four times he was about
to take his hat and stand Belinchón home, and let things continue
as they had begun. Feelings honest, kind and compassionate in his
heart there, the voice of reason advocated in defense of Cecilia,
the angel, in short, that every man carries within himself, he encouraged
so I did. The gentle and graceful image Venturita present to remember:
the fire his eyes still flashed him the soul, the sweet touch of her
hair voluptuous gold, the devil, in order, held him back. Gonzalo
was a healthy man in body, powerful muscles, blood rich but very poor
control. The more scared the hell exhausted temperaments than to the
wealthy as yours. The battle between the devil and angel fought, did
not last long time. He came to decide in favor of the former Ventura
a little note that gender, the other maid of the house, brought him.
It read: Do not fret. Today I'll talk to Mom. Have confidence in your
- Ventura.

The look of the girl to give it, where thought he noticed
the smile despite a tacit censorship disturbed him a little. Sent
her away with a long tip. When you open later with a trembling hand
The letter caught the scent of sandalwood that Venturita used. Ofrecióse
sudden your imagination provocative beautiful image of the girl, and
removed every fiber in his being not yet had vibrated. Acercóla to
his lips, and drunk and throbbing with desire, he kissed frantically
repeatedly.

Poor Cecilia