 Great
rider and a good hunter, he had never boasted of a bullfighter. What we did have a hobby, for
two or three years of his earliest youth, was to imitate Leotard, and with such success, flying
through the air, in the combined traps, like a witch. It was not without however, but a nice
guy, dark, beautiful eyes, dark-haired and twisted whiskers shiny and well groomed beard.

Having lectured against queues reported a series of anecdotes that occurred to him or to someone
you know, in foreign lands where it came from. Some of these stories were hunting or riding, the
most were of love, finding means of disseminating their triumphs and conquests, who pretended
to believe or believed their partners, or rather, his audience Count it was of those who, whether
they speak beautifully, fatigue and offend the least suffered, monopolizing the use of the word
and not consenting, as they say, that no goal but they trick or spoon.

Despite this monopoly is not to deny that the Count was funny in conversation. Speaking, loved
or dazzled. Recounted how few, and with such art, which he believed history, although it was
a lie, and the audience used to believe it too. It seems that the imagination and memory were
in Count one and only faculty of the soul.

He was petulant, but smugly cute, cheerful and sweet, no one offended.

Its fine Figure nice manners and did much to produce such good effect.

That night they had taken to denigrate everything. Reminding the Russian princess, the ladies
English to German Countess, the French du Faubourg Saint-Germain,
and even the Phanariotes Greek, which was treated with the utmost
privacy, it was not worth holding a damn all women who were walking
at that time in the outfield.

"Just - he said - if this whole miserable crowd can cull half dozen warrant a declaration of love.
"

Friends challenged as cruel censorship, and the Count, to defend himself, holding his opinion
grace and naturalness.

As was well disputed and walking, he suddenly noticed that he walked in front of two women
two tiny, slim, young people apparently, but only from behind the saw, and something had heard
and continued to hear of his diatribe and dispute, because occasionally whispering and laughed,
as if their comments to the conversation of those who came back.

Conde had not seen the face of any of those two women. The costume of them all eye was remarkably
vulgar and profane. The one dressed in black silk light and the other a dark suit of calico
poor, the two were on their blanket.

There was, however, such neatness and toilet in the whole being and even the environment that
surrounded and enveloped those women that, without managing the explanation, the Count seemed
to feel like a magnetic current, and got to imagine that these two women were challenging his
assertion, and that any of them considered, with good reason, an
argument alive, very strong and irresistible, against their foolish
statements.

Conde also warned that both had nice body and graceful movements unaffected and wearing the
skirt gathered enough to not blemished or powdering awkwardly sand and so they could descry
from time to time her tiny feet, sharp, high torso and footwear dedication botincillos funny.

The
desire to see their faces was felt immediately in the mind of Conde, but they, perhaps suspecting
that desire, not turn their face, may to counter and make you more alive.

The Count had to walk faster and move ahead of them to look at them. Then he saw with a pleasant
surprise that both were pretty. In the face were declaring that they were sisters. They looked
to the air like we call family, and were all very different.

The older and smaller of stature, of the silk dress, was brunette, with eyes and black hair,
as a cherry red lips and white teeth that showed laughing.

The smaller, calico dress, was taller and seemed to have four or five years younger than the
other, ten and eight at most, was white and blonde with blue eyes, and properly looked like
an angel. No laughed so much as most, and was more serious and less carefree. He had a singular
expression sweetness, serenity and quiet contentment.

Count well known that unknown to him, nor were they of what they call the society or could not
be placed in any of the levels of the hierarchy of the straight.

His piercing gaze and knew at once that experienced were both middle
class, or poor, or very modest, that must have been married brunette
and the blonde was single.

Saw anyone accompanying them, and thought he noticed they were in
a hurry and have come as repentant alone and that if one side were
flattered to have self-esteem as the attention of disdainful lover,
the other went suspicious, almost appalled that little triumph.

Among the friends of Conde had boasted of knowing that all Madrid, high, low and medium, provided
the people belonged to women. The Count asked who were those girls. All looked on, and they all
said they did not know.

- Are outsiders - added one.

- Will be new to London - said another.

- Must be either Malaga or Seville - exclaimed a third.

- Sevillanas
son - said the Count -.

I have no doubt.

He made a pompous eulogy of Seville in general with clear allusions to the two who went before
and that such was, and spoke much louder voice that he had used in the rant, so you might hear
them and serve his speech as a function of relief.

But the ladies seemed to fear the praise and not satire. No sooner were heard commending tightened
step, and taking advantage of a moment of confusion and noise, tried
to slip away.

The Count was stare at them.

He followed that movement, he saw that were in the garden advantage and also the noise he was
separated from his friends, as if by chance the lost, and took the street of trees where he saw
the two young men had rushed looking the garden gate.

It seemed ridiculous that a man so run like the running then desalted after two poor girls. Earl was
not considered aristocratic and arrogant, but rookie or ensign estudiantillo
fresh out of school.

But despite its judicious reflections, the Count was in pursuit of these women, and even formed
the purpose of talking about saliesen the garden so that, in the
case of a sofión, which he deserved for his sick vulgar bad parenting,
not subjects might see him it might have.

Leaving the garden he saw the Count to his valet, he would call the driver to come over victory.

-
Ramon! - Said the Count -. Go and wait at the door of the Swift-Club.

A little victory snapped.

The count continued to rise to the two women.

Two or three times approached them and tried to speak. He looked at them, he faced them, almost
stopped, but was so ugly, so plebeian as rude, abuse and that they were alone two women and
chase and want to talk to them, which was contained and did not speak.

In the midst of this hesitation, the two women were passing an empty car. Seized it quickly
gave the driver the address, paid for in advance and double pulverized, and breaks out the
way, up the Calle de Alcala and then entered by the Turk.

The Count wanted to follow, but his car had gone to the Fast, and
no rental cars appeared.

Remained, then, our hero standing like a fool at the height of the fountain of Cibeles and
mocking of himself by the series of silly and childish he had done.

Who knows if it would be some grisette, some teachers of primary education
that had come to competitions, or something equally corny, those two
had been doing what nor ever did queens and empresses?

III

The Count of Alhedín was careful to have the Swift-Club thwarted his attempted prosecution and
the disdain with which he had tried the two unknown.

"I returned to the Jardines del Buen Retiro - said to himself -, and find out there tomorrow
last year. They will return. Do not awaken the greed of friends with excessive praise. God knows
how many would endeavor to conquer, and I would be hindered, if not beat me. I'm not in love with
either. I never believed in sudden passion. But my Curiosity is extraordinary. Each is beautiful in
style and full of unlearned elegance. I do not know what decide if the blonde or the brunette.
The same indecision increases my desire to see them again. What we observe in the new view
and decide for me one or the other. Truth is that this preference only comes time for something. I
spend my time with both, but we must start by me want one.

If they were not sisters, if they did not walk together, or could I rush to the time the two
victories, but remain as they are, should be in order. "

This soliloquy, made and repeated in myriad ways, but in substance
the same always, he held the thought of Count for two days and two
nights.

Hallábanle distracted peers. He apologized, without stating the real reason distraction.

Meanwhile, or on the streets or in the gardens at night, or anywhere else, became Count to
see the two beauties, more than wanted. And that he had a keen eye and always going to care if he
spent nearly escaped him.

The Count thought endowed with prodigious wisdom to find mysteries to learn about qualities of
people just for the track or trace.

Was judged as seasoned and expert in As regards human society as
the ancient sages said lone East they were in it depends on Mother
Nature.

Zadig had understood and described all conditions and circumstances
of the horse of the King and Queen's dog just by looking at their
footprints stamped into the ground.

The Count, in his art, was nothing less than Zadig, and took for sure he really say who the
two strangers simply because if any seen for a moment, but I did
not think, I did not wonder about this point.

Another more vanity than vanity to be as expert stopped him. The vanity of believing left
interesting for those women, who had seen him and had noticed his pursuit, return after looking
for him, first yaw or repentant or unrepentant, but following the same purposes as the leak, according
to Conde, had been very much in place, so penalty of having humiliated them to pass easily tired
and light, lending from the first time accompanied by left who knew neither the name, only because
they had repaired certainly he was rich, titled and have a car.

The Condesito would not, therefore, not bother with the thought in looking at the two beauties, because
I was pretty sure they would return to find him.

As there again or the next night or the night after, he was crushed Condesito and even offended.

In
his conceit forged several hypotheses to explain further, and involuntary and spite of the
unknown, its absence from the Gardens.

"Who knows - I thought the Count -. Maybe the husband did not get out. You may have the married
a boy with measles. "

In short, all supposed to not assume that perfectly free will by leaving to go the girls on
a date which, implicitly, but clearly, he so handsome, so distinguished,
so illustrious, so rich and seductive, had given them to the Gardens
and can not be understood or course in relations with them not to
miss the respect and social considerations.

With so comforting speeches Count hardly dominated his impatience, went two nights at the Gardens,
and also saw the ladies.

And then decided to use their wisdom and their activity to look.

"If you flee, if they hide - he said - is because I fear. The look for me. I will find them.
"

Justified and the work that discourse would be taken, which was running in Condesito summary we
will expose.

The Seville was unknown.

They could be Malaga, as assumed that ignorant. Confusing to Seville with Malaga is a crass error
as a philanderer Andalusian that women should know as a hunter mistaking a quail with a dove. It was
also clear that she was married, among other reasons because, if both single, would not go alone.
The marriage was the brunette. In this no doubt. Known in older, and in other evidence that
together all reached the most complete certainty. Who was married the brunette? Both were outsiders,
new to Madrid, since no one knew.

It was not probably had come to Madrid to have fun, because then the husband, farmer, rancher, merchant
or something, some people in Andalusia and Seville itself, should
have accompanied and he also amuse and curiosearía.

The husband should be a busy man. What occupation could have a husband in Madrid, but of a
government employment? The Count therefore decided that the husband was an employee. Calculated,
finally, by air had something mysterious the unknown, of some concern to note that he had believed
in them, that night they were in the Gardens had been without previous permission of the husband,
improvising that trip at a time when he was missing from home, save loyalty to tell the prudent
course for to approve and legitimize the fact.

If all this assumption was accurate, the husband sometimes worked at night, home away from
home. At night he works in many offices; but none are as common as the long evenings in the Interior
or Finance.

The husband was, therefore, employed in one of these two ministries.

Discovered the enigma to this point, needed to know the name of the husband and where he lived;
but this was very easy.

Before the appropriate investigations, as the name of a person and
number and street of a house can not be guessed by mere speech, even
if you have an understanding excruciating, Count, fond of exercising
his thought also below.

Fashionable society is easier, more open in Madrid than in any other European capital, even for
women. Here no one asks, before letting go, whether it is or less noble birth, more or less rich.
The most haughty woman does not disdain to friend not ashamed to be accompanied by their daughters
or wife of a clerk anyone provided that their manners and are not unpresentable facade. Poverty
is forgiven dress also, as no notice is made by presumed abominable extravagance or bad taste.
No leading lady or semi-major not a welcome to the most modest provincial, who met in the field
or in some bathrooms or in some provincial town, and that the call premium and the treated
as a relative, if by chance it is.

"In Madrid - thinking the Count - many people now lack in the summer, but Madrid has not been
desert. My girls - so he called them now - are a delicacy of beautiful: they are natural and
inborn distinguished. How is that they have friends or relatives
among the people I deal?

How is that, having so many people in Madrid, Seville, or has been in Seville, my girls know
anyone? In any house I have. Why live so isolated? At the same Sevilla must have lived in greater
isolation. "

Count inferred here that their unknown, although Seville, had lived
away from the world or timid, or too much poverty, or extravagance
of her husband.

Then going from thought to action, leaving the speculative method
and appealing to study and investigation of the facts, the Count,
who had good relations everywhere, was the chief of staff of the Ministry
of Finance and asked for the names of the most Recent employees in
all those units were.

The list was long, because long time that there had been changes, renewal and transfer of
employees, but not missing an officer on staff who had some news
biographies of all new.

"Don Anacleto Perez 'he said, for example, the list .-- Where did it come? - Wondering Count .-- De la Coruña
- answered the officer .-- Are you married? - .-- For you single
out - replied Count.

So the officer was indicating various names, until he said: - Don Braulio Gonzalez .-- Where come?
- asked the Count .-- De Sevilla - said the officer .-- Are you married? - asked again Count
.-- It is more than married - said the officer -: we can describe as a bigamist, because more
his wife, who is very pretty, has with him his sister, even prettier, if possible, and fair
as some candles .-- That is what I seek - said the Count. Then again recommended, since even
before I had done the chief of staff, secrecy regarding its investigation.

By the officer also knew the Count Don Braulio did no more than a month that was Madrid, which enjoyed
a salary of 3,000 pesetas, less discount, who had a reputation of excellent employee, that would
justify to work which the Minister entrusted to him, that he was
a man of forty-five to fifty years of age but looked older, because
it was rather bald and very sickly, and that only took three years
of marriage had no children; his wife, Dona Beatriz, and his wife's
sister, named Ines, were a place the province of Cordoba, where he
had been Manager of Revenue, that shortly after wedding had been moved
to Seville to rise, which in Seville he and his family had lived far
removed from the treatment of people, who now lived on Olive Street
in third floor of a house whose number is also given, and they were
all so ferrets, barely were treated in Madrid with a living soul.

Count
heard all, returned to his thoughts and calculations. Had taken the
first step; but it was necessary to take the second. I already knew
who was dealing with, but that's nothing served if he failed to communicate
wisely with Don Braulio and his family.

The Count was far from being
a reckless infinity. While She did not draw any danger, if it did
not hurt having to risk the skin, always feared a coup in vague, do
some anything that might put you in awkward and ridiculous situation.
This was more afraid, not that of a naked sword, but fifteen machine
guns were firing at him.

Given this its natural condition, the difficulties
were not small.

How to be present in a house where one of its kind,
and perhaps no other no any class, came to visit? What excuse to claim
snapped right out in the house of those poor people?

The presentation
is the most right to know and treat people, but the Count did not
feel the shameless enough to be presented there.

Would you write
a love note to enter into relationships? 

Letters of this kind, use,
usefulness, disadvantages and advantages, the Count, who, according
to we have said, was very circumspect and tidy, had made its laws
and made their considerations, to which always tried to adjust their
behavior.

Write a love for women seemed an excellent resource. Almost
all give more solemnity and the significance of what he writes that
what they speak. Many things that offend or blush when they hear the
weigh and ponder, and delight them with loving pleasure when read.
If they answer a gallant speech to the intended word, it's easy avoid
serious issues, taking it all a laugh. The writing gives or imposes
on the Conversely, almost inevitably seriously. Word answer, leaving
a glimpse of speech atom beam or ray of hope, just committed. The
word is vague, a point less than spiritual passes through the air
and enters the ear without a trace. Even in memory is deleted and
is confusing. Perhaps his greatest claim, its most substantial significance
is itself, but the accent was pronounced, the fugitive gesture that
was accompanied in looking smooth and fast, in a lightning instant
of the eyes, when the word came out lips