 His soul was flooded with tolerance, but did not want to give
manifest budge or defeated, so that her husband expected to give way before affecting it after
her obedience and resignation. The great Thiers, while after weighing in his mind the benefits
of traveling, looking at his wife as she left wishing that reconciliation initiative. It was as if
two are angry and no one wants to be first break the ice and talk about peace.

Rosalie went to bed, sure that Bringas, the next morning, he would be inclined to accept the invitation
of his cousin. I knew she had to say. First, a lot of anger, a lot protest of dignity, a lot
of talk against Amparo and Agustin, after a series of modulations transition. She (Rosalia) used
to ignore each other and sacrifice their own taste the taste of others ... For their children
was willing to do all kinds of sacrifices and spend blushes and humiliation. It was evident
that Isabelita needed bathing and Alfonsito also ... Given this need, the likes of her, his scruples,
had no value. In short, if Bringas felt they should be, her eyes shut y. ..

But against what they expected, did not speak a word cominero travel the next morning. Humming
rose and seemed to forgot about it. Rosalia pricked him in vain, cursing against Jeronimos baths
and complaining of a deadly heat. He said no more but: "For what it is now ... From 15 starts
to cool. " This was in despair Rosalia.

He waited until the afternoon, eager and full of anxiety, and seeing
that the tooth fairy does not mind at all to such Basin, ventured
to say:

"But anyway, what answer to Augustine?

I will tell you that for me, although I loathe living with those people ... see, for children
...».

- What children and eight rooms! They are very good ...-- Bringas said waving his hat straw, as if
to make a living -. If Manzanares baths are the best in the world ... See what colors the girl
has taken. Alfonsito seems an oak ... Every time I laugh more than the stupid to be out ... And
do not think last night I've been thinking about it ... Say what
you want, there are always expenses.

We would have free tickets to the border, "but the border there?

- If there are more than two hundred twenty miles - Rosalie said with great spontaneity, which had
fed his illusion reading the guide rail.

- Sean few or many, those miles we were to leave expensive. Also,
how to go without bringing a gift?

Is it all right into your home with empty hands? ... Then, other expenses ... Resolutely not
going. Since 15 and cools. Notice how the days are shrinking. Last night and the temperature was milder
... No we move, my daughter is going well in Madrid.

Rosalia heard this anger alive, but his own pride forbade him to contradict.

Callose, and Chest jumbles the snakes made him of his illusion vanished.

Already been used the idea of ??finding her friends in the station of San Sebastian and hit
them with Basin in snouts, to put in letters dating from the Basin, and finally, of Arcachonizarse
for throughout the coming autumn and winter.

XL

In the sadness of his exile, one thing glad the soul of the unhappy lady, and was that their
children were in excellent health. Isabelita, which always had its annoyances all on tenterhooks
mom did not suffer during the summer, none of those disorders spasmodic withered his childhood.
Whether or not good Jeronimos baths, this is that she had won, he took them, meat and colors,
in addition to an excellent appetite. In As for the small excuse to say that with the waters
of the Manzanares was bursting with sound. Its strength was such that never ceased to prove itself
and grow to become larger and more powerful. The development instinct urged him incessantly to
exercise body, and to try and learn laborious acts of energy. Up to greater heights I could, climbing
a pillar, caper, carry loads, dragging furniture, pour and distribute water, playing with fire
and if he could with gunpowder, were more fun than loved. Skills revealed no mechanical ability
as his dad. It was rather a clever As destroyer fell into his hands. During the tasks of strength,
missed his mouth profanity and suits learned on the street. When his little sister's prissy listened,
holy God, then he was running to bring the story to his father. "Dad is saying Alfonsito ...».
things AND D. Francisco, who hated the dialects, shouting, "Child,
come here soon.

Bring me a chili pepper in the kitchen. " Now with the chili in hand, and having a criminal
caught by the neck, was given gesture will rub their noses with her, but she looked frowning, saying:
"This time, go, but as you repeat that crap, you burn your mouth, and you drop the language, and then,
instead of talking like people, bray like donkeys. "

Alfonsito had a passion for moving cars. View one of these on the street was mostly delight. Everything
was very enthusiastic, the strongmen horses, that drawer where she was a house of mirrors hanging
underneath, and finally, those blue blouse loungers were sitting up, dozing the slow swaying
of the machine. His dream was to be like those guys, running a car, charging, download it,
and imagine one that big, so big that it could fit all the furniture Palace. In their frenzy of
imitation, exercising the mind and muscles, amused hours in their thinking to the highest
possible degree of reality. As D. Quixote dreaming adventures and real made so far could well
imagine massive removals Alfonsin and trying to accomplish. D. Francis, who was with Isabelita
Gasparini, heard noise dishes, whip cracking, and these curses, Ala ... up ... upa ... garlic
... arre horse! In the middle of the fourth stacking chairs, and the gaps between them put pots,
chess pieces, crushed stone meat, pestle, bundles of rags, brooms
and everything was hand.

The cat went over everything. After downloading began lashing the heap, and if anything fell,
there were screaming and kicking.

On the face and sweaty the brave boy did not stop until he Isabelita
would learn, from his dad, the reason of such a crash.

- If you knew,
Daddy - said the girl, dying of laughter -; has seats on each other,
and is whipping and saying a few asses ...

- Tell that gallegote
that if I go there I will put each buttock as a tomato ...

(Bringas
had the bad habit of calling the gross Galician, custom widespread
in Madrid and accused so rude and ignorant.)

Isabelita tastes and
inclinations were very different from those of his brother.

More than the difference of sex, temperament was due to the two brothers were playing a kept
separately other.

Do not look with indifference the budding of human characters in these sketches people we call children.
They are our premises, we are but what consequences?

Isabelita say, if you ever played with dolls, did not take this like
as big as to gather and collect and save stuff.

His hobby collector. Useless trinket much fell into his hands, the rolling object without an
owner for the house, ended up in little boxes that she was in a corner at the foot of his bed. And
anyone care to touch that sacred trust! ... If Alfonsin dared to lay their profane hands on it,
and she had reason to be moaning and groaning for a week ... These habits seemed to be exacerbated magpie
when I was more ill health. His only happy was then stir your treasure, sort and distributed
objects, which were of an extraordinary variety, and usually, a futility absolute. Bits of wool
and silk embroidery and cloth filled a drawer. Buttons, perfume labels, ribbons of cigarettes,
stamps, steel pens used, the empty matchboxes, the thousand things reportedly fragments without the
use or application, bordered on the incalculable. But the dearest lot was made up of French stamps
given as a prize at school, the chromites of the Sacred Heart of Beautiful Love, Mary Alacoque
and Bernadette pinturillas Parisian art that represents the holy things with the same style of
fashion figurines. He also had what she called paper lace printed leaflets that are covering
the boxes of cigars. This was of a cigar Augustine, and he had given Felipe. Do not tell the
confetti of empty needles, gloves old screws, artificial flowers, the whistles of San Isidro,
the crankpin, remains a birth, a thousand trifles crowded there. On the other hand was very well
kept Isabel his piggy bank, into which, when shaken, it sounded delicious music rooms. Was already
so full, and weighing a quintal. Did not cost her watch and hide little work the greedy eyes and
rapacious hands of Alfonsin, who, if they let the break for take the money and spend it all
on crackers ... or buy a car moving with horses really.

Isabelita was so enamored of his treasure of junk, which reserved the entire world even his mother,
because this is so decomposed, it ruffled, and appeared to have it in small therefore considered
once said, "Do not be cominera daughter. How much pleasure you have in store crap? ". The only
person she consented to lay hands on the treasure was his father;
because this admired the patience of the girl and praised the habit
of saving.

In those long summer days, D. Francisco, who could not read or work or engage in anything, had
pretty bored with it, if it had the appeal of playing with her daughter to stir, sort and distribute
stuff. "Angel - said after his nap sleep -, bring the boxes and entertain us." The two Gasparini,
without witnesses, they spent all afternoon sitting on the ground, pulling objects and classifying
them to return to save them after carefully. "Some of these things will still - "said the economist
-. Let apricot kernels close together here. Let's count them: twenty-three. Now it puts on
paper, are you? First half goes into the box of pens into account so that the bones do not run Apricot
... Ajaj! Come another paper. Look at me now making matchboxes, two, two ... two ... two. See? It
covers everything and thus can not roll. Follow the gadgets ... Let's not bone buttons next
to the metal, also split up the bone of wood lest they quarrel. Everywhere there are classes,
my daughter ... So ... Now put this mess a rag right next to, not to join with artificial
flowers, not having envious of them and throw a fight. Everywhere there are evil passions ... Works
of art separately. This is the Museum where they come from the English, who are these whistles
of the Holy ... Verne giving things ...».

Often, after put everything turned to take to get him back, placed otherwise. They also played both
with dolls, dressing and undressing, getting and paying visits. Meanwhile, the other Alfonsín
gross carrying herding the animals and their car until he could no more. In all the little mishaps
would seek refuge at the foot of his beloved mother and the girl always snuggled up to D. Francisco
mime or search for justice in a fight with his brother. Alfonso knew enamored of his mother
caresses clever when it wanted to get some pennies, and snogging
and made a thousand blandishments.

- A secret, mother - said subiéndosele
the lap, and embracing and applying his mouth to ear -.

A secret ...

- Ya, ya, oh, how delicious!, What my angel wants is a little room, right?

And the very rogue syllabicate in the ear of his mother these words fainter than the flutter
of a Fly:

- Dad says I'm leaving you, I'm a fool.

XLI

With terror was the clever lady who passed one after another day of
the second half August, because, as all signs, they should come after
the first of September.

Torres, who was an indication of an extension, he turned pale and
said he could not Torquemada wait for this and that and beyond ...
It had been clear that both the day the conclusion of the contract.

Was the main clause, and certainly Mr. de Torquemada what counted
as safe ...

And hearing this, the lady weighed in his mind the difficulties
of the case, more serious this time who had been in other similar.

Needless to say, then say certain things in themselves that the attorney failed to Milagros
Rosalia 4 or 5, or any other day of August what that was promised. Candida should not expect more
than fantasies. Who turn your eyes? Bringas those seen, and it was crazy to think again subtract
any amount domestic treasury. Talk to your husband frankly and confess his weakness would have
been perhaps the best, but it was also the most difficult. Well it would! ... It would be something
to rent balconies to hear.

Since Bringas found out their entanglements, would a period of repression strong Rosalia terrified
that most troubles that passed! His plan was to emancipate little little and in no way tied to authority
bonds tighter ... Would manage alone, as God gave him to understand. God does not leave her,
because sometimes there was not abandoned.

Since becoming the 25, felt in his whole being itching, fever, suspicion, and his lips liked bitter
gall. The idea of ??commitment that he would not let her see a moment free, and any calculation
took her to the probability of a convenient ... If fish again soon! ... He, who had offered him so
many times ...! But remembering what that surly he was at the time of yore, afraid that, on
returning to Madrid, his distinguished friend does not he were so disposed to the bounty ...
"Oh, no - he said then - I've gone mad. He'll do whatever I want. "

Thinking this, I remembered the scene that day, concluding by recriminations over too picky
... If she had not been so ... so ... so silly would not have needed to borrow the Kaffir de
Torquemada. A woman of her status ...!, be in such agony and why?, for a paltry sum ... It could
well be thousands of dollars if he wanted. Eight years before the Marquis of Fúcar, who often
saw her at home Miracles, he had made the cut. What about her? ... a porcupine. It was not
just the Marquis of Fúcar his only fan. Many others, and all rich, insistent manifested habíanle
gallantry that were willing to do anything foolish. But she always remained uncompromising
in its honesty elusive. Or never suspected that this inflexibility, high and firm like a tower,
might one day feel hesitation in its foundations, and had to seem so strange what I thought at
the time, believed that much work had been. "The need - is said - is what makes the characters.
" She is to blame for many misfortunes, and considering this, we must be lenient with people
who do not behave as God intended. Before you accuse, we say: Take what you need, buy yourself
something to eat, cover your meat ... these Are you okay food, well-dressed? For now ... come
morality.

Flowing well, Rosalie herself admired, I mean I admired the Rosalia the time before the trompe
who was then brought it so bewildered, and if a party could not see without a blush as corny as
it was at that time, the other was proud to be so honored and so happy with your life miserable.
The citadel of happiness vulgar was still standing, but it was made and charged to fly mine. Before
giving fire which still was spotless, in fact, looked sad to remember it when you sit on its
ruins.

In the last few nights of August was once the Prado, where he met with cucurbits, and although
horribly tormented by the idea of ??compromise imminent, took part in the light of the party
talks. It was a pretty lively group, who concurred Some gentlemen. The mentally pasábales Bringas
inspection review, examining monetary conditions of each. "This - I thought - is poorer than we
are, everything looks, all appearance, and under a sad tawdry salary of twenty thousand. I
do not know how manages to maintain that FAMILION ...».

"This has nothing but traps and much syrup ...». peak "Oh, this really is man: he entailing
twelve thousand dollars of income, but he says he does not like women ...». "Oh, this really
is love, but will they keep it ... and what is ...». ajadito "This is not what drop dead ... rake
is a bad taste that does more than escapades with women of evil life ...». "Here is one whom
I must like it very much, as the face that makes me and the things I said ... but I know Torres
Torquemada I paid two thousand reales to take baths with his wife, who is crippled ... !...».
Poor thing Of this magazine was that almost all were more or less embarrassing pauper, who hid
their misery under a coat bought a thousand drowning, and the few who had any money were calm
and cool temperament ... There was the lady locked in a double ring-pass. Pobretería was the one honor
the other. If the jump, where would you go to fall? ... Noting Prado in the gloom of the processional
tide of strollers, he saw some people go, very few, which attracted the attention of his exalted
spirit. The nearest street lamp illuminating them enough to recognize them, then lost in the dusty shade.
He saw the Marquis Fúcar, who had returned from Biarritz, pompous, crass, all lined with bank
notes, to Onesimus, who used to look like yours with the Treasury to Trujillo the banker, Mompous,
the stockbroker D. Lantigua Buenaventura, et al. Of these powerful, about the known, others
do not run any of them Tell them as it looks after that they must be loving. Others were of impeccable
manners in and out of home ...

Rosalia withdrew his, with a head full of personal Matritense anyone, and I saw pass through the region
of his brain turned to and fro as the Prado. Now poor, then rich, then the honest ... and back
again. Adding to the confusion yours Bringas those days seemed to be kinder, more loving, but
in terms of expenditure showed himself inflexible as ever:

'Daughter - told at bedtime -. Since the first of September I will return to the office. It
should work, and especially economy.

We have significant delay, and we must recover by dint of hardships lost ground. Story with you
today as I've ever; story your economy, your gentleness and your good sense. If we succeed, it
than a year at least do not spend a single penny in rags. I see that what you have elegant living
for about six years at least. And if you sold something to me I an outfit, whether you appreciate
what these poor bones ... Forgive me if I've ever been a little hard
on you and with some tricks that dragged them out ... I felt that
you were dating some of our traditional system.

But considering your virtues, I close my eyes to that nonsense show and I hope you I belong, back
to your modesty and not putting in case to justice. In this way our children will have bread
that lead to mouth and shoes to pull up and I can wait tranquil old age. "

These severe and reasonable expressions moved her one hand, on the other, terrified. Back the stale
system a cloth back and forth in front, and the endless metamorphosis of dress peach, Eral
and impossible to deceive unhappy that gave him great pain. In this perplexity We gave to chance,
to Providence, saying: "God help me. The events I tell me what to do. "

If the big fish again soon take her out of that rut. Studying it as a means of exploiting his
liberality unsold. Getting this would be the smartest woman in the world ... But there was
that D. Manuel returned from those tired bathrooms.

Carolina had said he would come in early September, without setting a date. What anxiety! And the
day 2 ...!

The first thing I had to do was to stop the lady poring hit the lender, or postpone for a few
days at least, until the fish come.

Despite the pessimistic considerations Torres, she hoped to get some success presenting to Torquemada,
and ventured on 31 to go home this step unpleasant, but necessary, in which good results trusted.
Lived the journey that the Moriana, in a large, dusty, dark, filled entirely Furniture and cuadrotes
of various taste and price, remains of its huge clientele.

Museum unaffordable luxury, the extravagance, of the glories of a day, the house was all tears and
sadness. Rosalie felt secret dread to enter it, and when Torquemada appeared, emerging from
those dishes with a Turkish cap and wing cloth jacket fly, she wanted to mourn.

XLII

"And the family?" - Torquemada asked to say hello.

- No new, thanks ...-- replied the lady sitting in the chair that was offered.

At once presented his claim for an extension, using the friendly smiles
and More sweet I could imagine.

But Torquemada heard the proposition seriously cold, and then offering
Rosalie looks at the threads formed with their fingers, as the host
offers to worship of the faithful, he spoke these fateful words.

"Lady, I told you not ... I can, I can not in any way. It is quite im ... possible. "

And when the victim refused to believe such cruelty, threw the last
argument in this way:

"If my father asked me ... this extension,
it is not granted.

You do not know what a hurry that am. I have bound to do ... a deposit. I will honor it. "

A replay of the appeal, up to the weight, not the rock broke.