 

  We crossed the ria of Southampton, the Bay of Biscay, Finisterre;
  we passed in front of Bordeaux, and the fourth day of travel
  we arrived at Lisbon.

  
  
  The Great Western steam led me, is a colossal vessel of 2.500 tons,
with an extension bridge and a prodigious wide and magnificent halls.

  
  
  We left England two hundred passengers, and each had comfortably
  his place in the table because the dining room is a Gorgeous salon.

  Cabins, double beds for the most part, are narrow and uncomfortable.

The
  treatment of travelers is good: at nine o'clock in the Breakfast
  is served lunch at noon the indispensable English lunch, which
  is equivalent to take the eleven, at four a abundant food, English
  for cash, at seven o'clock tea with bread and butter.

  
  
  From Southampton to Lisbon, all passengers were in bed clock. The
  sea of ??England and the Bay of Biscay, constantly agitated, give
the ship a continuous movement no traveler support without discomfort.

  
  
  In Lisbon, we stopped twelve hours, then continuing our up by a sea
calm and quiet, go to the thirty six hours to Madera.

  
  
  This beautiful island enjoys a healthy climate and produces
  wine held in all the good tables are served, deserves trip. Only
  eight hours rest in Madera, in which time we visited part of
  the island, running on the slim and light horses and harnessed
  willing to await the seashore where travelers arrive. The rent for
  a moderate price, and with their help you enjoy the charm that produce
the picturesque landscapes that are offered everywhere.

  
  
  Wood Streets in costs for the most part, are to right and left
  gardens planted with fresh and lucid, which with flowers perfume
the air pure and fresh there breathing.

  
  
  The population is small and short-importance: there are two or three
hotels, including one that is regularly English served [34].

  
  

  Wood went out to Santa Cruz de Tenerife using forty and eight
  hours.
  

  I was coming from foreign countries go all, it was quite time remaining
  in Spain and had need to speak our splendid language and remember
  my beloved homeland.
  
  My desires were thwarted in part, we came to Santa Cruz to
  the eight p.m., and the captain had said that we only would stop
  long enough to drop off and pick up the correspondence, any traveler
jumped to the ground.

  I got even, speaking, until the ship left, with the Spanish
  who came on board in their small boats laden with oranges, apples,
  plums and other delicious fruits.
  
  In the shadows of the night, my eager look distinguished, but confusingly,
the city of Santa Cruz, symbolizing my eyes all over Spain, and greeting
with joy and excitement, the I lost sight of at the moment we continue
our long journey.

  
  

  Santa Cruz de Tenerife to San Vicente, Cape Verde, employ four days.

San
  Vicente, notable for me, being the first site in the world where
  I saw what they call slaves, wretched beings as worthy as the
  first free man, is a miserable place that has only a dozen houses,
  there is the Enterprise from the vapors deposit of coal: this
  is the cause of stopping at such a place, otherwise no one would
stop.

  
  
  Groups of African men, women, children, all naked almost
  completely, cut up the population of San Vicente. Hurts the soul
  and the heart compresses the appearance of such a place: the
  climate there, almost burning, and playing in Africa it is, makes
impossible any vegetation: missing earth, air, life, human beings,
everything is missing there.

  
  
  The number of African slaves who live there, is not more food
  than corn, and not all. No traveler to land in San Vicente do
  not feel bad at the sight of such a picture: that our steam
  immediately provided coal necessary, we left the Cape Verde islands
general contentment.

  
  
  Leaving San Vicente gave the first real trip, we engulfed in the
  ocean, alone, in the midst of the powerful Atlantic, with
  no more witnesses to God, no other horizon than a always the same
circle, closed on all sides by immensity.

  
  
  Leaving San Vicente, the traveler takes leave of the earth I never
see in eight days, the sea and sky are the only perspective in all
that time.

  
  
  There is something solemn and gorgeous in a sea voyage, by the arrogant
element tells of the dreadful infinity voice their anger.

  
  
  The sea, whose secrets remain a mystery, that our curiosity can not
  understand that science does not explain who speaks with his
  eternal motion before we can know what is what he tells us, the sea,
I say, is superbly majestic and large.

  
  
  The man, in spite of its small size has worked wonders giant, now
  pick up the lightning in his hand, now scuttling mountains, and
  descend into the bowels of the earth saved to steal their
  secrets, and climbing the sky to see monitor these ports that you
  are covered and whose progress has learned, the man who prints everywhere
footprint its passage, has not achieved anything from the sea.

  
  
  The courage of the sailors, to which human industry has houseboats
  paid to cross the solitudes of ocean; science, one after
  another has been supplied to the ocean new conquests, with which
  knows where it goes and why sites, the walks and where it is, the
  vapor, which has go fast and facilitated in all seasons,
  no as before having to submit to the powerful assistance of
  the winds in a word, has only served for men to communicate,
  to study and understand the world, great and mighty conquests, it
  is true, but not for printing the human footprint, but not stamped
  with the seal of genius as a man does with all his works.

  
  

  The sea, the mighty sea, perhaps too proud, does not want the
  point man.
  
  The man has changed a thousand times the earth planting cities,
  mountains cutting, excavating immense collaring isthmus: Well,
  the sea surface is now the next day as having sprung from
  the breath of God, and so will be up to the last and final moments
  of the world. Spend a magnificent ship by ocean waves, opening a
  sulcus, new waves move immediately and delete the trace,
  for That scream eternally around a ship, are impatient to to feel,
but once that passes are thrown to erase their traces.

  
  

  The ocean is the image of the vastness, the mirror of God, brilliant
  proof of their existence.

  
  Eight days I was alone in the ocean, with no other dome that sky,
with no other support than the abyss.

  
  

  It arrogantly reckless man's value has been released to blind in
  the middle of the cliffs and storms.

  
  
  I do not speak in any way today, today has no merit a trip around
  the world today everything is known, there are now media.

  
  I refer to Colon, great vantage of modern ages has
  no rival.
  
  It is necessary to make a trip to America to gain insight the heroism
  of Columbus, otherwise it is not understood, and most of the Colon
  heroism, of our brave compatriots composed the crew of her three
  small boats.
  
  Yes, they are more heroic, Colon had the genius, the ray inspiration,
  the prospect of the glory that has immortalized by a guide:
  he knew where he was going: the simple sailors who accompanied
  him, no, no beaches that were more familiar of Spain, could not even
dream of the existence of another world were seen thrown at a company
that unnerving to all, that Europe all described as madness, were
alone in the seas that no one but God's eye had seen, without knowing
where they went or why route: believing that the return would impossible,
believing with reason and ignoring at the same time if would have
arrived, because they knew nothing, because then know everything,
because no one knew what was behind the sea.

  Is necessary to make a sea voyage to understand this.
  
  From San Vicente to Pernambuco, the first population of Brazil, on
the other side of the line is, employed our steam eight days.

  
  

  The distance between two populations is 1.620 miles sea.
  
  Nothing bigger than the rising and setting sun seen from a ship
  in the ocean.

  The world looks like a huge star glowing ball of fire: there
  seems but rises the bosom of the seas, the illusion is complete.

The
  horizon is closed on all sides by a circle of water there,
  on board in the middle of the Atlantic, the figures imagination
  that the whole earth is covered by the ocean, only element which
  is, hence the it may seem, with all appearance of truth, that
  the sun rises in the morning bosom of the waters, and that
  she returns to bed when earth spinning in a vacuum has made his move
to newspaper around it.

  
  
  At sea one does not understand atheism: it is not explanation
  on earth, no, but the ocean, with their immortal voice, sometimes
  talking with pride wrath of the storm, now with the peaceful quiet
  majesty of his eternal ebb and flow, always publishes the existence
  of God, always touts its power, always sings his omnipotence, he
always speaks of eternity, forever explains the infinite, always convinced
the afterlife.

  
  
  These huge ships crossing the seas today, notwithstanding their gigantic
  proportions, are at sea, in relation to a atom in the art, that
  a point in space.

  One of the tremendous Ocean waves lull apart and becomes chips
  the most vibrant squares.
  
  This speaks volumes for the man, notwithstanding his smallness
  in the ocean that can be felt anywhere, Sulca dared launches
  its Piélagos and chasms, marching between storms and thunder, alone
in a miserable boat because that is the most colossal Ocean vessel,
a boat; there goes the man alone, but with God over his head.

  
  
  A sea voyage of eight to ten days is great, surprising, admirable:
it is necessary to ask to see and hear God, to understand the world,
to divine immensity.

  
  

  But do not be a long journey by vocation ocean is monotonous,
  fatigue, tired.
  
  In eight days you can admire the beauty of a blue sky transparent,
  seen from the sea, the sun's descent portentous his bright hair
  dipping into the bosom of the waters: the frightening and dramatic
  grandeur of the sea mightily irritated: in short, eight days may
be so in thirty, that were those that I employed in my journey, in
spite of the steam was the agent of our march.

  
  
  Such a long time on the bridge of a ship fatigue. At the end
  of first ten or twelve days the scenes are repeated, are same, no
emotions, and where there is no emotion, my food, nothing, there is
the mundane boredom.

  
  

  From Pernambuco to Bahia employ forty-eight hours, and from Bahia
  to Rio de Janeiro four days.
  
  The distance that had to travel from Southampton to the Brazil's
  capital, my first voyage, was of 5.155 miles, distributed as
  follows: Rio de Janeiro to Bahia, 685 miles, from Bahia
  to Pernambuco, 380; of Pernambuco to St. Vicente, 1.620, of San Vicente
to the Canary Islands, 850; the Canary Islands to Wood, 265; for Wooden
to Lisbon, 525, and from Lisbon to Southampton, 830.

  
  

  The test was good, I was lucky not to suffer dizziness making the
trip just fine.

  
  
  # BRASIL. #

  
  Rio de Janeiro, capital of the empire of Brazil, is a city 300.000
  souls, superbly located and with a superb and picturesque bay,
  one of the largest in the world.
  
  Its main streets are Rua and Rua Deret d'Ouvidor: The first of these
is wide and open, in the center is Exchange building, is busy street
and quite animation, has good shops and cafes on the square start
Palace and ends near a church whose name I have forgotten.

  
  
  La Rua d'Ouvidor is the main street of Rio de Janeiro, for the
  importance of exclusive shops that adorn it: it is straight and
  empties into the rua Deret, which, as I indicated, is the best in
  town. It has a large number of elegant shops, mostly French,
  dressed in luxury shops of European cities: the pavement is what
  more detestable than you can imagine, as rainfall is Frequently,
you can barely passable by that street.

  
  
  The rest of the streets of Rio de Janeiro, in general, is in a unfortunate
delay, unpaved, careless cleaning, and perfect state of neglect.

  
  
  There are a number of places, among which stands out for its
  great extension, that of the Provisional Theater. As lacking
  large buildings, and has no proportion, no trees, no culture, or
ornaments, only provides the traveler a view large tracts of land,
which could be a great place.

  
  
  In one of his paintings are the palaces of the Senate and House
  of Deputies. In the center of one of the fronts is the Ministry
  of Foreign Affairs, in a modest house not I dare to call the palace.

  Opposite stands the theater Temporary, for the Italian
  opera.
  
  The Theatre name sufficiently indicates what it is, provisional
  built in a short period of time, neither has architecture, no
  style, no forms, no thought, is a work executed without any other
object than it used almost time for theater, built meantime another
was not yet has begun.

  
  
  Anyway there is singing Italian opera, and is indeed a great resource
  for Rio de Janeiro: in general there is good companies, the government
  contributes to the maintenance of Theatre With a grant of
  eight thousand dollars annually. The company sang in 1856 was
  pretty good: the two prima donnas, Crane Mademoiselle and Madame
  Charton, very well interpreted their roles, as in any theater
  in Europe.

  After singing the Steffenone, which has recently excelled in
  the Italian Paris singing with great success the Troubadour.

  
  
  When I left Rio de Janeiro to return to Europe, were Tamberlik
  notarized and Dejean.
  
  Another of the places worth mentioning is that of Rosario, spacious,
  regular, and with a higher proportion than the Provisional. It
  has four regular exterior walls, and center have planted several
dozen trees that complete and beautiful.

  In one corner is the Theater of San Pedro, devoted to the play:
  they are represented in Portuguese, parts translated from French
  and Spanish. When I was in Rio de Janeiro a raging fire burned
  for the second time the coliseum.

  
  
  Another great place too, there is a public garden, where military
  bands come the holidays: There are a profusion of tropical trees
  and plants, and is regularly provided, but lack taste and order.

  
  
  The botanical garden, named after some modestly, is outside the
  city and at a distance of three quarters of a league. The more
  complete carelessness and neglect more contemptuous, convinced
  when you visit the little interest that will undoubtedly inspire
  Brazilians.
  

  And indeed it is a pity, because apart from the two superb superb
  collections of bananas that adorn contains a wealth of plants
  you choose and highly appreciated, that arise spontaneously,
  perhaps in spite of those who care the garden. It also has a wonderful
  natural furnishings, you circular and with a lovely canvas of
  picturesque mountains, many and graceful contours, variety of forms
  and colors.

  
  The tours of Rio de Janeiro, completely unnecessary, since inhabitants
  of the country do not usually walk, are regular, distinguishing
  between all the de Botafogo, located at the coast, with trees,
  fountains, and carriage ride. Is pretty good and very thinly
  attended. The Emperor walks all Sundays always crossing the
  carriage across Botafogo extension.
  

  Aqueduct rides, and Corcovado, are picturesque, especially the last,
  which ends on the crest of a high mountain angled, hence the name.
  Can horseback ride to the summit, from which this is achieved
  an astonishing glance: the calm sea, the picturesque mountains
  and city, are offered in all the majestic observer. Another Bay
  headland is embellished called Sugar Loaf, named for its shape.

One
  of the best Rio de Janeiro enjoyed enough ago , is the lighting
  of gas, which are lavishly lighted main streets and squares.

  Also the Square carriages are very good and there are big numbers;
  Prices to rent them fabulously expensive. Different Cuéntanse
  bus lines that make the service between the city and suburbs: I
  stop to make mention of this, because it is a advancement
  in a city so far from the European movement.
  

  The hotels are scheduled at large, two good. The three best that
  is within the city are of Pfaroux, the of the four nations, and
  Europe. Outside the city, and the path of Botafogo, two British
  and one French, the Best of all, both in the city, as those of out,
  is the Hôtel des Etrangers in Catette Square.
  

  It's a great house, modern and elegant construction, solid with
  wide and beautiful rooms, a large garden at the foot of sea, wonderful
  views, many amenities. The whole hotel is lighting by gas, have
  bathrooms, pool, and large capacity: in the Hotel for Aliens live
  most of individuals of foreign diplomatic corps.

  
  

  There are other different hotels within the city, shortly certainly
  desirable, but good for the people of the country. There is also
  in Rio de Janeiro two or three cafes where they serve ice cream
  throughout the year, the snow is received from the United States:
  and now talk a little about the elements of the country.
  

  The richness of Brazil are sugar and coffee: the especially coffee
  is the main branch of wealth.
  

  Ships of all countries constantly loaded in their ports
  by this Article: 1855, the province of Rio Janeiro single exported
  ten million pounds of coffee: this cool number of picks with a
  single crop regular province Rio: the ten million pounds of coffee
  imported thirty millions of dollars, for each arroba is sold to
  50 reais.
  

  The main market is Brazil to vent his coffee, is that of the
  United States of America, selling more half of what is collected.

The
  railways are under construction accrue immensely as soon as they
  are completed public wealth Brazil, for then it will be easy and
cheap transportation of coffee from the inland provinces to the ports
of Brazil, transport is now done by horses, with large extravagance
and the jobs needed for a long time, because besides being great distances,
lack of roads.

  
  
  Sugar is another class of wealth, but no big promises future, for
  their condition, much less than that of the island to Cuba and other
parts of America, maintains a state of continuous depreciation.

  
  
  What is and how the wealth of a people, which gives a country's
  future, in addition to the natural elements is their population,
  and this is what I mainly need to rule Don Pedro II.
  
  His vicious laws of colonization, its climate, few attractions
  offered by the European, the lack of guarantees that ensure compliance
with the promises made by their agents to Europeans who want to emigrate,
are causes powerful European retract want to emigrate to Brazil whose
country, with a vast territory, larger than Europe whole day today
has not complete seven million inhabitants, of whom two are blacks.

  
  

  Completed its railroads, and increased its population, Brazil
  have a rich future.

  
  Brazil is in favor of the constitutional party Empire and the Republican
  side.
  
  As a new town, which has just entered public life of
  nations, has a policy that serves sincerity which are carried out
  on representative forms part of his life constitutional only way
  that the Empire exists. The policy that is outside has
  nothing constitutional aims to emulate the so-called free
  government the United States, following in his footsteps,
  made in America South, which the Republic of Washington
  in the North; predominates in neighboring states, influences policy
and tends to the continuous enlargement, although this is must break
laws and attack the independence of peoples.

  
  
  This is the policy of the governments of Brazil and Montevideo, Buenos-Aires
  and Paraguay: awkward sycophants have been led to believe Governments
  of Don Pedro II that Brazil could and should continue the conduct
  of the United States, I had to do in the South as they practice
  in the North, and that being the two peoples stronger of America
nothing more natural than go through the same way.

  
  
  Error! Gross error!

  Anglo-Saxon race that inhabit the North America has no analogy
  or remotely with the indefinable Latin degenerate Portuguese
  living in Brazil.
  
  The two towns are different in everything: energy, origin, in religion,
in laws, customs: the activity North Americans can only be compared
in a big way, with feature of the Brazilian sloth: they differ in
all absolutely everything, even the weather are opposites.

  
  
  Brazil does not widen its borders never, never, if today diplomats
  have been able to exert some influence on Plate republics, only
  the sad Debelo constant state of disturbance of their governments,
anarchy has full reign there today