 

Volume I consists of 336 pages and includes:

Warning of the translators and annotators .-- News about the life
and works of .-- Preface Ahrens the author .-- Introduction.

Principles of Philosophy of Law: Groundwork of the idea of ??law .-- Exhibition its capital
.-- Critical elements of the main systems of law .-- Forms, sources
immediate and mediate .-- .-- The State Division of private law and
organic groups, as the purpose of life.

History of Law: Philosophical principles of this story .-- .-- Periods
capital law pre-historic East .-- Right, look at general .-- The Hindu
.-- The Village Zendo .-- Egypt .-- China .-- The Hebrews .-- Appendices
.-- Muslim law.

Volume II consists of 464 pages and contains:

History of Law in Greece
and Rome: Difference between Greek law .-- .-- Rights Law Judgement
.-- Roman historical and philosophical.

Legal history of Christian: Right Germanic various times up today
.-- Law of non-German Germanic peoples Germanic law .-- peoples Latinos
.-- Law of Hungarian law Slavs .-- .-- Judgement philosophical history.

Volume

III contains 384 pages and contains:

Private law system: The concept, purpose and method of the same division.

General part: Subject of Law .-- .-- Foreign Object of the legal,
origination and termination Rights to acquire modes .-- .-- Information
law legal relationships space and time .-- Protection of Rights .--
The possession.

Special section: The right of individuals .-- .-- Right of property
law of obligations, contracts and classes of society .-- .-- law marriage
law, family law and inheritance law .-- professions.

Public law, law of the State and society .-- international law.

Legal methodology.

The cost of the work, 18 pesetas in Madrid and 21 provinces.

Spanish pasta bound, 4.50 pesetas.

CALDERON DE LA BARCA

Select theater, preceded by a critical study
of D. Marcelino Menéndez Pelayo, 4 volumes, 8. º, 48 and 56 reais.

Contains:

VOLUME = I =

Critical study, by D. Marcelino Menéndez Pelayo.

RELIGIOUS AND PHILOSOPHICAL DRAMAS

Life is a dream .-- Devotion of
the Cross .-- The prodigious magical .-- The Constant Prince.

= VOLUME II =

Tragic drama

The physician of his honor .-- A grievance secret, secret revenge
.-- The Mayor of Zalamea .-- The largest Amar .-- monster jealousy
after death.

= VOLUME III =

COMEDY swashbuckling

House with two doors is to
keep bad .-- .-- La dama duende No jokes like love .-- Morning April
and May.

= VOLUME IV =

COMEDY .-- VARIOUS WORKS

The worst thing
is not always true .-- Beware of still water.

OPERETTA

The laurel
of Apollo .-- The Purple Rose.

Mystery plays

Baltazar dinner .--
Life is a Dream .-- A God by reason of state.

Volumes are sold loose
at 12 and 14 reais.

MADRID, 1886 .-- Imprenta de Manuel G. Hernandez,
Libertad, 16 duplicat