 Because they do not renege on our holy faith and go to the pains of hell, even Help them with
your charity and five paternosters and five Hail Marys, to come out of captivity. And yet also
take advantage for the parents and brothers and relatives you have in Purgatory, as you will see
in this holy bull. "

As the people saw them throw ANSI as something that was for nothing and be coming from the hand
of God, they took more take, even for children from the cradle and all its defunct, having from
children to the lowliest servant, counting on their fingers. Vimon in such haste, as I aínas
I'd just break a poor old coat he had, so that VM certify that in little more than an hour
was no bull in the panniers, and it was necessary go to the inn for
more.

Finished taking all my master said from the pulpit to his clerk and the council that rise and, to be known
who were the ones to enjoy the holy indulgences and pardons of the holy bull, and that he give
a good account of who had sent him, were written. And then they all very willingly said they
had taken, having ordered the children and servants and the deceased. Made his inventory, he
asked the mayors to charity, because he had to do elsewhere, ordered the clerk to give him
authority to inventory and memory of those who were there, which he said the clerk, were more
than two thousand. Done this, he was dismissed with much peace and love, and so they patros
us of this place, and even before that we left, he was asked by the curate and the aldermen if Bull
profit the infants who were in the womb, to which he replied that according to letters he had
studied not, they might have to ask doctors older than him, and that
this was what I felt about this business.

ANSI E we departed, leaving all very happy with the good business. My master said to the bailiff
and clerk:

"What do you think, as these villains, that just say" old Christians are "without charities, think to be
saved without compromising any of their holdings? Well, for the life of graduate Pascasio Gómez,
which expense they'll more than ten captives. "

And thus we went to another place at that end of Toledo, to the Channel, said, where others
encounter's overwhelming to take bulls. Made my master and the others who were going our proceedings,
two parties that were there had not been thrown thirty bulls. Seen by my master the great destruction
and the great expense he had, (and) the crafty ardideza my master had to make spent with his bulls,
was that this day DIJA high mass, and after finishing the sermon and returned to the altar, took
a cross that brought a little more than an inch, and a brazier of
fire above the altar they had, which had brought to warm his hands
because it was great cold, put him behind the missal without anyone
looking into this and there without saying anything he put the cross
above the fire.

And, because the Mass was over and tossed the blessing, he took it with a handkerchief, tightly
wrapped the cross in his right hand and the other the bull, and so they got to the season
step of the altar, where he was kissing the cross, and beckoned them to come to worship the
cross.

And thus came the first mayor and the elders of the place, coming
one to one as used.

The first that came, it was a old mayor, although he gave kiss rather
delicate cross is burned their faces and quickly took off.

Seeing this my master said to him:

"Step, I am, Mr. Mayor! Miracle!"

And thus another seven or eight, and they all said:
"Step, gentlemen! Miracle!"

When he saw that the rostriquemados
enough to witness the miracle, did not want to give more to kiss.
Climbed up to the altar and said wonderful things there, saying that
the low charity that was in them had God allowed this miracle and
that cross was to be taken to the holy church of his diocese, that
the little charity that the people had, the cross burning. I was so
fast that there was in taking the bull, not enough two notaries neither
the clerics nor sacristanes writing