 

Sometimes going to see how marching repairs to your ship, excellent excuse for download in someone's
bad mood. Other morning she went into the garden on the banks of Chiaia by same places that
had stepped up going with Freya. Expected her to appear at any moment. All around him was something
about her. Trees and benches, sidewalks and electric chandeliers, knew it perfectly well, for
being in the usual way.

To be convinced that waited in vain one last illusion made him turn
his eyes toward the Aquarium white palace.

Freya had told him. Often entertained for hours contemplating life of marine life. And Ferragut blinked
rapidly passing the heated garden sunshine to the gloom of a wet galleries, no other lights than
the lowered daylight inside the aquarium, took to light through the
glass of water and a mysterious tone, green dye and diffuse the deep
sea.

This visit made him pass the time pleasantly. Arose in his old memory readings now asserted by
direct vision. He was not sailing the sea without worrying of what exists below the keel. He
had wanted to know the mysteries of the vast palace The ceiling blue
circulated, dedicated to the study of oceanography, the most recent
science.

To take their first steps in the Aquarium, the Navy immediately imagined depth with unequal
divisions that have split the scan. Along the shores called littoral zone, where rivers flow,
crowd nurturer substances the pulse of tides and currents and underwater vegetation grow. This
area was of the great catches, and reached two hundred meters deep, depth at which lost sun.
Beyond the light stopped, the plants disappeared, and with them herbivores.

The

submarine slope, soft to this limit, stressed, descending rapidly to the ocean depths, and this
part of the sea - almost all of the ocean - vast body of water no lights, no waves, no tides,
no currents, no oscillations of temperature, was the call abyssal plain.

On the coast, water, waved, salinity changed depending on the distance rivers. The rocks and
funds were covered with green vegetation that was near the surface and would cast a shadow, until
the dark red and yellow bronze and walked away light. In this ocean paradise, nutrients and light
water bacteria-laden Food and microscopic life unfolded with exuberance. Despite continuous
attacks fisherman, marine herds remained intact through procreation infinite.

The fauna of the abyssal depths, where the lack of light makes it
impossible for all vegetation was necessarily carnivorous.

The weak people devoured the waste and dead animals descended from the surface. The strong turn
nourished with concentrated substances small butchers.

The bottom of the ocean, monotonous desert sand or clay, the product
of sediment hundreds centuries, offered from time to time an oasis
of rare vegetation.

These forests arose Life as spots where the surface currents meeting rained a mana of tiny corpses.
Twisted plants and limestone, hard as stone, were not plants: they were animals. Its leaves,
tentacles inert and traitors, suddenly shrank. Its flowers, hungry mouths, bent over the dam,
sipping their greedy suckers.

A fantastic light passing through this world with colorful bursts
of utter gloom.

Was animal light produced by living organisms.

In the abyssal depths were very few blind beings, against the opinion of the vulgar, imagines that
almost all eyes lacking their distance from the sun. The filaments of the carnivorous trees
were garlands of lamps, the eyes of hunting animals, balloons electric; the insignificant
bacteria, photogenic glands, and they all opened or closed their fluorescent switches according
to need of the hour, sometimes to pursue and eat, others to remain hidden in the darkness.

Animals,
plants, immobile as stars, surrounded by a circle of their mouths
fierce rays, and the tiny beings irresistibly felt pushed toward them,
the same as butterflies flying towards the lamp and sea birds collide
with the beacon.

None of the lights of the earth could be compared to the nether world.

All fires artifice paled before the splendor of organic varieties.

Polypary living branches of the eyes of the beasts, until the mud strewn with items bright jets
emitted phosphoric sparks beams whose splendors opened and closed incessantly. And these lights
were going in degree for many different colors: purple, purple, red, orange, blue and especially
green. The giant octopus lit to sense the proximity of a victim and soles livid, waving his
arms deadly hitch.

All deep-sea creatures were the organ of sight enormously developed in order to capture even
the weakest rays of light. Many were bulging eyes and huge. Others were detached from the body,
at the end of two tentacles cylindrical like telescopes.

Those who were blind and did not produce glare offset this inferiority development tactile organ. Their
antennae and fins, were prolonged beyond measure in the dark. The strands of her body, long hair rich in
nerve endings, instantly distinguished coveted prey or the enemy
in ambush.

The abyss abyssal had two floors or roofs. At the top was the so-called neritic the ocean surface,
clear and bright, far from any coast.

Next came the area pelagic, much deeper, in which fish reside incessant movement, capable to
live without resting in the background.

The carcasses of animals that neritic and swim between two waters were a living direct and indirect
impacts of abyssal fauna. Fragile beings teeth and slow speed, poor armed for the conquest of the
live prey, fed with drops of rain food material. The great swimmers, armed with formidable jaws
and stomachs elastic and immense, they preferred the vicissitudes
of the struggle, persecution of hunting living and devour - devour
the earth and carnivores to herbivores - to all small and waste-eating
plankton.

This word, recent scientific invention, to Captain Ferragut was the most humble and interesting of
all the characters of the ocean.

Plankton is the life that floats in clumps loose or forming clouds through the neritic area, descending
to the depths abyssal.

Wherever he went was the animation plankton living animals grouped in tight colonies. Salt
water pure and clear under certain light rays showed numerous small bodies, restless as the
spirals of dust dancing in a sunbeam. These transparent beings, microscopic algae mixed with
embryonic mucus were plankton. In its mass dense and less visible to the naked eye floating
siphonophores, garlands of individuals united by a transparent thread, fragile, delicate and bright
as Bohemian crystal. Other agencies were also subtle form of small glass torpedoes. The sum of
all the materials floating on the sea albuminurie condensed in these
clouds nutritious adding to them the living animal secretions, waste
of their bodies bodies dragged through the rivers, the blades of grass
eating algae.

When the plankton, to random impulses or following mysterious attractions crowding would at some
point along the coast, fish boiled in water with amazing fertility. The coastal populations are
growing larger, the sea was filled with candles, the tables were
more affluent industries arose, opened factories and money circulating
in the sea, drawn inside by trade in fishery and canning.

If capriciously withdrew plankton, paddling to another coastal marine herds migrated behind
the living meadows and blue plain was empty as a desert damn. Fleets of boats remained dry, closed
shops, no longer smoked the pot, the horses of the gendarmerie charged
into the crowd Protestant and starving, shouted opposition in the
Chambers and the newspapers were responsible for everything the government.

This

powder fed to animal and plant species more numerous, so they in turn served grass to the great swimmers
armed with teeth.

The whale, the most voluminous of the ocean inhabitants, closed this destructive cycle in which devour
one another to live. The peaceful and toothless giant kept his body only plankton, absorbing
tons. Imperceptible and crystal manna fed his body lay tower, circulating under the oily purple
rivers of blood hot.

The transparency of planktonic creatures evoked the memory of the colors Ferragut wonderful inhabitants
of the sea, exactly adjusted to the needs of conservation. The species living in the area were,
in general, blue back and silver belly. In this way they could escape the sight of the enemy. Its
light color, as seen from the depth of darkness, mingled with bright white sheet surface. Sardines
swimming in banks, could go unnoticed thanks to their backs and blue
water, being freed from the fish and birds that hunt.

Living at depths where light never penetrates, pelagic animals ignored the need be transparent or
blue as the surface neritic beings. Some were opaque and colorless, other tan and black, were
of the most superb die, whose splendor human brushes desperate, unable to imitate. A gorgeous red
was the basis of this coloration, gradually descending to pale pink, violet, amber, to miss in
the iris of pearl milk and polychrome vagorosa trembling and nacre of molluscs. The eyes of certain
fish, placed at the end of rods separated from the body, glowing like diamonds on the ends of a double
pin. Outgoing glands, warts, the windings dorsal coloration took
jewelry.

But precious minerals on earth are dead they need the light beam to exist at short sputtering. The
animated jewels of the ocean, fish and coral, glowed own colors that were reflections of their vitality.
Its green, its pink, its bright yellow, their iris metallic inks
forever juicy wet painted by a patent, could not survive in the atmospheric
world.

Some of these beings were capable of a powerful mimicry that made them confused with inanimate
objects, or spend a few moments for the full range of colors. Some, of nervous activity, was immobilized
and cowering, filled with rough, taking the pitch dark rocks. Others in anger or love fever,
were covered with stripes and trembling spots, spreading his clouds epidermis different with each
of their tremors. Cuttlefish and squid, to be pursued, were made invisible in a cloud, as The
charming books of chivalry, muddying the water with the ink stored
in their glands.

Ferragut was moving between the two vertical rows of tanks of the Aquarium, showcases rocks
with a thick glass that left everything in sight inside. These two clear walls and bright,
they received fire from the sun by the upper part, scattered green
mirror the shadows of the corridors.

When driving, the visitors took a livid pallor, and if they went for a submarine canyon.

The calm water of the ponds was barely visible. Behind the glass seemed to exist only a wonderful
atmosphere, a sleep environment, which beings floating up and down color. Bubbles his breath
was all that betrayed the presence of liquid. On top of these cages water, the luminous atmosphere
was shocked by a steady stream of transparent powder.

Seawater was injected air, which renewed the conditions of existence of Aquarium guests.

Viewing these sleeves exhilarating master, admired the blue water force on nurturer he had spent
most of its existence.

The land lost its pride when compared with the vast water.

In the ocean had pointed the first signs of life, then continuing on its evolutionary cycle the
mountains, also emerged from their midst. If the earth was the mother of the man, the sea was
her grandmother.

The number of land animals was negligible compared with that of the sea. On the ground - much smaller
than the ocean - beings occupy only the surface soil and atmospheric layer a few meters. Birds
and insects rarely go back in their flights.

At sea, the animals are scattered at all levels of its thickness, may have many miles deep, multiplied
by thousands and thousands of miles extension. Infinite number of beings beyond all calculation
to swim continuously on every floor of its waters. The earth is a surface, a plane, and the sea
is a volume.

The vast mass of water - three times saltier than the birth of the
planet, owing to evaporation millennial declined without absorbing
liquid components - keeping, scrambled with chlorides, copper, nickel,
iron, zinc, lead, and even the gold from of reefs to global boiling
agglomerated on the ocean floor, and mass not are more than minor
veins tentacles the mountain, with its gold-bearing sands carried
by rivers.

Silver was also dissolved in the water. Ferragut knew for certain calculations that silver floating
in the ocean could rise to the enormous pyramids of Egypt.

The men who had thought about the exploitation of these mineral riches were withdrawing their
chimera. Were so diluted that it was impossible to use. Knew ocean beings better recognize its
presence, filtering it through your body to renew and coloring their
bodies.

Copper accumulated in his blood, the gold and silver were discovered in tissues of animals, plants, the
phosphorus was absorbed by the sponges, lead and zinc, by wrack.

All were removed from the waste water of some dissolved metal fragments as imponderably small,
that no chemical process quite grasp. Washed lime carbonates torn by rivers to the coast or
to many species were used for construction of their shells, skeletons,
shells and conch.

Corals, filtering water through their flabby bodies and mucous, solidified their hard skeletons,
to convert to final habitable islands.

Beings floating bewildering diversity, ramp or around Ferragut coleaban were nothing more than
ocean water. Fish, water made flesh, and the animals mucous, water as gelatin; polyphenos crustaceans
and water, transformed into stone.

Looked at one of the ponds a landscape that seemed from another planet, great and small at the
same time, like a forest seen in a diorama. It was a palm emerging among rocks; but the rocks
were merely pebbles, and sea palm annelids, simple worms that were
kept in vertical immobility.

Her body kept ringing in a leathery tube that protected them, and this trunk rectilinear throwing
ivory color, as a supplier of arms, tentacles shifting which allow them to breathe and eat.

Gifted
with a rare sensitivity, sufficient passage of a cloud with the sun to contrajesen inside the tubes,
leaving them without their colorful capital, such as palms lopped. Then slowly and cautiously,
they arose again the brush through the opening animated its pods,
floating in the water with eager anticipation.

All these trees and flowers, animals was a voracious microscopic
mechanical when the victim was left by its tentacles to attract The
contorted branches smooth, closed, pulling the slender tower secreted
by himself, digested conquest.

Other ponds attracted attention after the seaman.

Slipping on rocks, introduced in caves, half buried in slumber sand,
all the various and tumultuous nation of crustaceans moving their
cutting tools and tentacular Japanese armor shone, a dyed red almost
black, as if you keep the dried blood from a distant combat, others
in fresh scarlet, the same as if reflected in its hardness the first
fires of dawn.

The fiery lobster - the homard, ruler of the rich tables - rested on the scissors their forelegs,
powerful weapon as a double battle-ax. The locust jump with agility on the rocks using the
hooks on their legs, tools of war and nutrition. His nearest relative sea cicada, animal clumsy
and slow, remained in corners, covered with mud and seaweed, in a stillness that made him confused
with stones. And around these giants, red as a democracy used to suffer from time then the attack of
the strong, swimming swarms of shrimp and prawns. Their movements were loose and funny, so
refined sensitivity that the slightest agitation made them give huge
jumps.

Ulysses thought slavery had imposed nature of these animals showed them beautiful defensive shell.

Battleships
were born, and growth were forced repeatedly to change armor. Moved Leather, like reptiles,
but these, being cylindrical, could perform the operation as easily as a leg that leaves the
media. Crustaceans were to draw from its shell, which was beginning to crack, the multiple mechanisms
of its members and its appendages: the legs, antennae, thick claws, slow and dangerous operation,
which many seemed torn by their own efforts. Then, naked and helpless, had expected to be formed
a new skin to turn from becoming armor. And this in the midst of a hostile environment surrounded
by hungry beasts, large and small, who felt the pull of its rich meat and no other defense
that the concealment.

Among the swarm of small crustaceans that moved in the sand, hunting, feeding or fighting with fierce
tangle of legs, looking for observers to be bizarre and extravagant the paguro, Bernardo dubbed
the Hermit. It was a shell that moved straight as a tower on some
crab legs, crown having at the hair of a sea anemone.

The comic appearance was composed of three different animals, one over another, or rather of
two living beings in the middle wearing a coffin. The paguro born with back devoid of armor: an excellent
bite, tender and tasty, for hungry fish. The need to defend a shell made him seek to save
the weak part of your body. If a house was empty for this species is appropriate. Otherwise,
ate the resident, introduced after the pearly shelter later, armed
with two legs hooked.

Not sufficient to paguro their weak defensive precautions.

Need to be offensive to live; inspire respect for eating monsters, especially the octopus, looking
for prey of your breasts and hairy legs, leaning out for locomotion outside the tower.

A sea anemone came to look at the top limestone: at times came to be five or six. No relationship
existed between the body and bodies paguro above. They were simple partners, mutual interest. Animals,
plants and stinging nettles all monsters without armor fleeing from the venom of stinging organs, the
strands of her hair burned like needles of fire. Thus, the humble paguro inspired terror to
the giant beasts depth, carrying on the back its tower crowned with formidable batteries. Anemones,
for his part, thanked the pasease incessantly from one side to another, placing them in contact with
all kinds of animals. They could eat more easily and her sisters still in the rock. They had
to wait, like them, the food came casually to their tentacles.

Also, always floated to its heights any remains of the prey was below crafty crab in his wandering
impunity.

Ferragut, moving from one pond to another, provided the gradation of the mentally diverse orders
of marine fauna, from the original sketch the perfect body.

Mediterranean sponges swam in the early days of his birth - when they
were as pinheads - vibrating movements.

Then stood motionless, straining water by the cells and corridors of their tissues, protecting
their soft flesh with a ruffling spicules, calcareous needles and spicy, with which strung and
immobilize fish serving them food waste into putrefaction.
Deployed by thousands of sea nettles stinging their strings, projecting
a poison stunned the victim and made her fall into the corolla, mouth
and anus simultaneously. A voracious without limits, seized, locked
in stone, of larger fish to them, and presenting danger shrank so,
it was difficult to see