 Everything is gun and
bait for the devil.

One day when Ramirez led him in a beautiful gift bulb in a wicker basket, the lectoral began to enjoy
it without removing the skin. He was a pear of calabaciles by calling Dual turgor. Suddenly,
to drive its bite in the thickest part, made a frightful gesture
and threw the fruit into the corridor, shaking hands and saying: -
Vade retro vade retro!

The enemy had to show in that tight and bulky poma forms of women.

Since then the young man began to live in a sudden concern to conceive
virtue more difficult and experience in all its flesh, quiet until
then, a swarm of instincts that dizzy moment her brain by steam vats
at the winery.

A cold February afternoon, to leave the lesson, and after hearing his teacher read a learned
commentary on the Song of Songs, Ramiro encountered along the pillar Aldonsa of the ladder. She
invited him to climb the tower. A moment later either climbed the steps. Ringer suddenly stopped
and pulled the lantern light to the face of the boy.

Ramiro also stopped, his hand trembling recognized that modern had Sulamita released "twin fawns'
in singing.

There he plucked his virginity, on those dark stairs, where she slept sacred smell of candles and
incense.

When you lift your eyes to apologize for his horrible sin, he found himself face to face with
Ringer figure, that five or six steps up, waited impassively, holding
lit candle in hand.

How long he was there?

Ramiro naturally looked and began to descend, in the shade, feeling the walls, without saying
a word.

Once he walked out with new arrogance.

The breeze that came down the street of death and Life oreaba on his lip a touch unclean and
feverish.

X

At seventeen years, thanks to a precocious development, Ramiro took on a tough and adult. His lofty
brow, and his broad shoulders, imposing, all who spoke to him, treatment ceremony. Now generalized
thinking, seeking the hidden meaning of each appearance, believed to decipher, with youthful
arrogance, the supreme enigmas.

Took too long against the use, the jet black hair and his skin extremely pale, as if the constant
meditation will thin the blood, remember that mysterious whiteness
as the moon sets in the marble.

He, who hoped to find a counselor in the canon of humility, received his word grilled Live ambition.
The new teacher often interrupted their lessons for history, great events of that illustrious lineage
of the Eagle, founded by the champion Sancho de Estrada, come from Asturias, and also nombrábale
admirable warriors, sons of that city, though small, represented in Spain the first seminar
of honor and chivalry. In all Avileses parts are indicated by the
gift of his command and his cruelty in battle.

Sancho Davila surnamed The thunderbolt of war, now served copy to the flamingos.

- Who could give me back my youth and give me a few years of life
graceful and unembarrassed Soldier! - exclaimed the canon.

No he meant that he was sorry for the noble race that had tilted its constellation, no, a thousand
times. Just thought that with a buff jerkin, a shako and a Toledo steel, choosing the districts
as they see fit, have done far more for the sake of Santa Fe Catholic flushing their days tied
up with strings of slander and stupidity canonjil an armchair. Ramiro Confiole, bluntly, and the
meanness of that sordideces stifling existence of sacristy, and said the anger and the unusual
cruelty with which all his colleagues had linked against you when you tried to offer an episcopal
seat.

- The very sly and aliquot - say - feels that only the eagle can not stand and cleave space, will
fly very high, very high.

The eager longing of a miter was now stronger than their virtue and the great sin of his soul.

Dominated by the reverent admiration he professed for his master, and having delivered from the first
day all his heart, Ramiro looked straight path that hand pointing priesthood. I no longer
doubted that the arms race, following the example of their ancestors, could be as useful to God and
Holy Church and in the cloister or in the pulpit. Quickening then decipher the scrolls of her
family aged and read the story of the great Masters of Rome and Spain.

At first, representations of their own future is confused and formed the great old episodes. Amazed
by the reading, came to believe, himself, the hero of the story.

It was on Julius Caesar, the Cid, the Great Captain Hernán Cortés, Don Juan de Austria. To take in
hand The comments, it was he who led cohorts through Gaul, but, on
the Ides of March, more sagacious than the dictator peeping Brutus's
betrayal, and hiding a sword under his robe, entered the Curia and
killed one by one the conspirators.

Defeated the Moors in countless battles, offered to Spain the kingdom of Naples and the rule
of Moctezuma, and finally standing on the castle an unlikely vessel, destroying forever all the
Turkish fleet at Lepanto new prodigious your imagination dreamed as prints.

The result was he came to believe God chose to continue the tradition
of the glories unforgettable.

Deleted from the mental field at medium, so neat, so patient. Everything sudden and heroic was
not left him unmoved, feeling self-confidence, a certainty achieving absolute hit the highest
honors and become, in a short time, a of the first champions of the Catholic Faith on earth.

One
afternoon, sitting on a rock in the ravine that runs between the Convento de la Encarnación and the
walls of the city, Ramiro, his thoughts kept rolling.

He exalted his soul single site, making listening in their illusion,
war cries, sighs ecstasy.

Joyous wet shining gold color on the hills. It had rained until three afternoon, and the storm
moved away to the nascent large clear opening of ethereal pearl. Wayward tuft of golden and
purple clouds stretched over the city, retaining yet the movement
of the blast had twisted.

The rough walls reflected a yellowness amazing, that seemed born
of itself.

We talked with emphasis in those days, of a possible uprising of all
the Moors Spain, aided by the Turks.

In some palaces in the city were held frequently meetings, where
they exchanged news and views discussed.

The house of M. de la Hoz era to the present, every Wednesday and
Sunday, a swarm of church and nobles.

His campaign and his known animosity Alpujarra against false converts
said, from the Initially, Don Inigo as a head assembly.

Ramiro thought now if everything not arise the occasion to start its popularity.

It took two craftsmen. The youth officers realized they were the dust
stone whitewashed stone hands.

They came talking about food and wages:

- "Seeing that no one was shaking, I stood like a pine tree to the master, and I said, with the salary
he gave us we could not fill the pot to ours, and that with bacon soup and base crust of a loaf
which he took, we would dry the substance.

- What do you say?

- He replied: ill monks be you, rascal.

Know that you would do die of envy many bishops.

- He said that?

- Cabal.

- Patience, Martin.

Ramiro shook his head in a gesture of anger.

He spent a Franciscan monk riding a gray colt. Santa gladness shone
in his face.

Her bare leg showing below hairy sackcloth. Punished his horse with a piece of bardaguera. The
good friar cared a fig the appearance of your figure ...

Ramiro
considered the strength of that so superior that made fun of all the
vanities man.

Arrive later saw an old, slender, hooked nose, dark complexion, abstracted gaze. His ragged black clothes
shivered in the breeze like a book burning.

He walked slowly hitting the ground with his cane. Despite that aspect of misery, had both arms adorned
with bracelets of alchemy, and a double string of beads, in imitation
turquoise, fell on his chest.

Arriving with Ramiro, Miron straight, both hands supporting the staff. The young man took a
coin to give it. But the woman asked:

- "Are you muslim or castellanuelo?

- Cristiano old, by the grace of God - Ramiro said.

The woman refused alms, and stretching his arm

- I come to desengañarvos agora, descreyentes, servers of idols - ominous voice cried and ye
shall fatal .-- Hagar and his fiyo is escribto, and with them the joy anger. There will be
no whom you water the plain, nor any dominion over the plow, and who knows how to plant and
harvest, or adobe whom you smell fine. The round, who knows manejallo? Oh, those of Islam, are
with agrillonadas hands, but the sufrencia is good luck. Know that paradise is promised the
suffering and will be honored at stands high and advantaged!

Ramiro could not overcome and taught him the palm to predict your destination.

- Your jofor, you jofor! - Stammered the Moorish.

But scarcely had he taken in his hand that thin and energetic, soltola suddenly.

Ramiro, returning instinctively head, found himself with the figure of the canon that back of the
Incarnation, had recognized and approached.

- Chiromanciam habemus - lectoral cried.

Ramiro smiled. The canon then took a silver coin and handed it to the woman. The Moorish took
it and walked away shaking slowly. A moment later, teacher and pupil heard the rumble of the
coin on the pebbles.

So, back to the city in search of the Puerta del Adaja, Canon composed the following sentence:

-
You see, my son, the love we have this race of Ishmael. Here was a miserable old they prefer to continue
moaning, like a hungry wolf on the road, rather than accept our alms. Appear to have become,
and are as Moors and Africa. Van and dragged the hair to learn the doctrine, and only makes them
afraid to take their children to our churches for baptism. But ansi arriving home, they gnaw
to the fontanel a piece of pileup or the edge of a knife, followed by washing in neatly to quitalles
until the last of the sacramental chrism.

Then again bautizalles his way, with Moorish names are secret until death. Do not eat beef never
any that have not been beheaded by infidel hands, directing the animal's
head toward the East, to Mecca, towards the Qibla, as they themselves
are expressed.

Do not drink wine or taste pork to distinguish it from us, and behind closed doors, watch your Lent
and all the rites their evil cult. I have seen in the background of their homes in Andalusia,
marble bathrooms or tiles, where men are immersed and perfume as prostitutes, as usual infidel
and lascivious. The boys stun the streets of the suburb with its wild uproar, and they are all
given the timbrel, the bagpipe, the jingles, the lewd entertainment of dance and rides that corrupt
fonts and wall units and soften your mood.

He paused to mount the chest, then spit stoutly that there was, continued:

- In public places make compliance to the Holy Cross, of course, but
when they are no witness to any chapel or shrine, make you suffer
all kinds of taunts.

Myself I've caught near Talavera something horrible. Several of these damn dogs had gone to cut wood
to a forest edge.

One of them, returning, had to download her belly, and having made a cross of two oak chips,
the key straight in the filth, and let them fall. I was the first Christian, no doubt, that he
managed to pass by that site. Seeing my dear cross in such a state, I ran by her, and kneeled
down between the root of an oak I started adoralla. Consérvola still jealously, for the violence
they suffered, as if it were made bones of a martyr in Rome.

The sun had just set. The hills of western and brown trimmed short profile of the horizon of fire.
Master and disciple reached the northeast corner of the wall and turned towards the south. Down,
right, between the dark rocks, Adaja water off a fiery golden glow. The churches had finished
playing prayers, and the next bell in the chapel of San Segundo still had a buzz sleepy.

- What to do - went on to say the canon - this enemy home as often forgiven? What to do with this
treacherous servant, that day approaches us with a smile on the teeth, while night haunts our
sleep with his hand clenched on curved dagger? Your grandfather, Ramiro I said, and nobody
knows how it these things, that these carriers and porters Moors who encounter on the road
sleeping in the sun with their jugs, take and bring seditious messages of Aragon and Granada Granada
Aragon, Castilla past, and who no longer ignore that the plot has
all the Moors from the kingdom.

The light was fading in the sky, but the canon harangued increasingly exalted, as if rehearsed,
in the solitude of the road, solemn speech to try to pronounce in any assembly.

- Some say that the expulsion of the Moors from Spain would bring
ruin.

Greed modern Lords - said this time .-- Ah! already counted those very clear that men of old
preferred a grain of honors all full of piggy banks and Jewish Moor. Hogan, nobles of Aragon
are the most vicious and lawyers after the fact these dogs infidels,
and full Castilla is traditional Christian, Moorish enamored with
money, who follow his example.

They think the children of Muhammad would be the profit and tasty live, and their lands malignant
herb cover. This same; in the city of the Loyalists, Knights of Saints, most of the council
is against the expulsion. What a lot - he added, lowering his voice and speaking almost in
the ear of youth, - the Inquisition, the Inquisition, receives fifty thousand drams per year of
the communities of Aragon?

Addressing the illusory character, which he saw encouraged, no doubt, in the theater of his
imagination, continued:

- You say that the expulsion reduced to less than half the wealth of the kingdom? Better, greedy
lords. What more worthy and healthy state for a Christian republic that poverty? Superfluous
goods bring freedom and greed, just as overflowing water breeding vermin and toads unclean
lust and courage triumphs lose primitive rudeness the pair of swords that are tuned like pins
and are covered with velvet and precious stones not to frighten the ladies in the stands. Livy
claims that the great prosperity and abundance Rome, earned him all evil, and for this reason the
Romans came to extremes vice. If we consult Juvenal - said again, - he declares to us that
there is no lineage of evil the Romans did not fall since leaving poverty. Was it the people opulent
of Israel, the people of God? If we are to live with the opinion, says our Seneca, never be rich,
whether with nature, will never be poor. I know that I've never seen borrow the usurers to buy olives,
bread and cheese. I always saw that one it looks for horses the other for galas, the other
for prostitutes. Return, then congratulations, those golden age, or centuries of acorns, as
they are called. Stop this crazy ride floats and these lackeys parades, drunk with vanity
and wine, both stolen his master. Reborn the old virtues severe heap table, the rich devotion,
and that the decline of the garment make us better reach the healthy
meat openness of the wind.

Was over and spat several times.

They entered the city through the Puerta del Adaja. The streets were
full of leaden gloom and trembling. Some still life lit their candles
and poured over the causeway gates dull orange glow. An old man sitting
at a window, attached to the temple gate, looked at the sky praying
the rosary. In another window, without light, was a young man who
prayed. His face ashen hue took the time and his pupil fosforescía
strangely.

Stillness as if to have been encouraged to uncover the
deepest silo of his conscience, the lectoral, who had been terminated
his speech, broke again, though in a tone less oratory and sweeter:

-
The only compassionate spirit we empleallo, my son, on private occasions
and minute of life, as mandated by the Gospel law. Our own instinct
gives us a great education when we do save a fly drowning in a glass
and sometimes puts in our hand twisted canvas and kill us makes hundreds
on the table and the wall. Extend that his alms to the beggar, while
carrying a Koran in his hand, he's an orphan Pity and the widow, even
cursed sect of Mahomet gives drink to the thirsty muslim passing,
or ask your jar to the infidel, like Jesus to the Samaritan woman,
nothing say, that all he himself taught this gospel, which is the
law individually and daily bread, but sounded the hour big, righteous,
no fuss know the designs meet the Lord, because there other law, my
son - added show of hands and voice as an ancient prophet, - other
law elderly, law of peoples, is another testament, where God same;
with its own word the sentencing of the wicked, saying to Moses: "You'll
put my knife to please throat of the Amorites, the Canaanites, the
Perizzite, the Hittites, the Hivite, the Jebusites to quitalles life
", adding:" and do not be kind to them, "misereberis nec earum. And
also, by the prophet Samuel, Saul ordered him to tell him to destroy
the Amalekites, not forgive men, neither women nor children were milk
though, so no trace none of them or their estates. We must also, as
an act of atonement, capping the roots of our soil this plant poisonous.
Let's not be forgotten that we, in modern times, the people of God,
as it was in ancient Israel. Nothing should surprise us that people
semi-barbarous as England, Germany, Bohemia, Hungary contamination,
but do as we have to tolerate us, whom God turns away his confidence,
the idolatrous and blasphemous servant our own heritage? Whether the
expulsion everlasting, and the total destruction, if If requested,
making them a Sicilian Vesper, before you do them with us Heaven commands
us to clear finish the work of purification.

- The fear of blood,
my son - went on to say the canon - is a low instinct man. Jehovah
is frightened of vice, wickedness, a single sin, but not blood justly
discharged. Blood is needed watering every good germination, and the
Lord running makes your time with the same gentleness that runs the
clouds over the furrows. Human lives are not worth but for what it
is for their sacrifice, as grains of incense