 But very soon he
perceived it was too dangerous to try to scholars. Suscitóse a fierce debate about a law of
Zoroaster, which forbids eating faucet. "As they are not the faucet, said one, if no such
animal? Force is that it has, said others, when you do not want Zoroaster eat. Zadig, by them
comply, he said to them: I do not eat faucet, if there are taps, and if not available, we will
eat less, and thus to obey Zoroaster.

There was a wise writer who had composed a work in thirteen folio volumes about properties of the
taps, great Theurgists, which went to all haste to submit to the Archmage Drastanés, the most
foolish, and consequence to the most fanatic of the Chaldeans to those remote times. In honor
and glory of the Sun, would have this sent to impale Zadig, and then prayed breviary of Zoroaster
with more pious compunction. His friend Cador (a friend is worth more than a hundred priests) went
to see the old Drastanés, and told him this: Glory to the Sun and faucets; nobody touch the hair
to Zadig, who was a saint, and has taps in his yard, not eat: his accuser himself, which is a
heretic. Why, has not substantiated that are neither filthy nor the solipeds Rabbits? Well, well,
he said Drastanés, trembling, shaking his head, to Zadig has been of impaling, because they
have misconceptions about the glyphs, and other, because he has spoken without regard to rabbits.
Cador Apaciguólo all through a palace toilet girl, whom he had fact a boy, had much the qual
influx with the school of wizards, and not impaled to anyone, the murmured something many doctors,
and therefore decline and the next Babylon. Zadig was saying: How does happiness figure? All the
earth haunts me up Imaginary Beings, and cursing of the wise, decided
to stick to live with people fine.

Reuníanse at home the finest treatment sugetos of Babylon, and the kindest ladies; servíanse fine
dining, but sometimes preceded the academies, and encouraged friendly conversations, that no
one aspired to drive them out of acute, which is half very certain to be a fool, and tarnish
the most brilliant gatherings.

Dishes and friends were not chosen by the pride that all preferred the appearance of reality,
and thus a robust estimate grange by That same least she aspired.

He lived in front of his house a certain Arimazo, sugeto carrying the perversity of his courage in recorded
physiognomy: corroíale envy, and bursting with vanity, separate dexando was one presumed to know
annoying. As the fine people made fun of him, he retaliated speaking ill of them. With difficulty sycophants
met at his house because he was rich. Importunábale the noise of cars entering the night with Zadig,
but most of it annoyed the heard him praise. Sometimes went to his house, and sat at the table
without getting "invites corrupting the joy of the whole company, as they say it infects the
food harpies they touch. He was succeeded by one day we wanted to give a banquet to a lady,
who, rather than admit, went to dinner with Zadig, and again, with both speaking at the palace,
it was a minister that he invited Zadig to supper, and not told him anything to Arimazo. In
such weak foundations lie at times the most cruel enemy.

This man, surnamed Babylon envious wanted Zadig upset because he called the blessed. A hundred
times a day, says Zoroaster, opportunity is to do harm, and to do well just once a year.

He went home to envious Zadig, And he was walking through the gardens with two friends and
a lady who claimed to some flowers, not another soul to be said. We tried a war that had just
ended with joy the king to the prince of Hircania, his feudal lord. Zadig that in this short
war had given repeated evidence of value, to much acclaim the king and the queen still more.
He took his book from memory, and four verses he wrote in suddenly, he gave to reading his beautiful
hostess, but though his friends begged him they are read, out of modesty, or perhaps by a
very discreet self, he would not: that well knew that the verses of sudden events are only good
for those for whom it is made. Tore it in two leaf memorandum book in which he had written, and
pulled the two pieces to a bower of roses, where it was in vain look for them. Soon began to
drizzle and they all returned to the classrooms, but the envious who had stayed in the garden,
both recorded that gave with one half of the leaf, the qual was torn so that half of each line that
was filled a row direction, and even a short verse, and most foreign
is that, by a perhaps even more extraordinary, the meaning of such
verses were short infectivity was an atrocious against the king.

     Leíase them:
     
     A nasty monster Today governing
     the Chaldean; His throne invincible The ugly power itself,

For the
first time in his life he thought happily envious, having to lose
a man of good and friendly.

Horrible drunk in joy, went to the same king the satire written Zadig feathered, And he, with
his two friends and the lady was taken to jail, and was formed because, without being worthy
of hearing him. Stood the envious, when he had sentenced in the way which was to pass, and
told him that his verses were worthless. Not missed Zadig of poet felt yet in the soul be condemned
as guilty of lese-majesty, and dexar two friends and a beautiful lady in jail for a crime he
did not commit. Not allowed claim anything in his defense, because the book of memory was clear,
and that this was the style Babylon. Then walked to the scaffold, through vast ranks of people curious,
none dared to sympathize with him, but thronged to consider which side pony, and if it was
to die with the breath. His relatives were the only mourn, for they did not inherit, having confiscated
three-fourths of its flow to the Exchequer, and the rest to the envious.

While it was preparing to die, the bird flew from the balcony of the king, and came to rest roses
in the garden of Zadig.

The wind had knocked down a peach of a tree immediately which had fallen on a piece of a written
memorandum book, and he had stuck. Grabbed the parrot peach with writing and took it all to the knees
of the king. This curious read some words that meant nothing, and seemed the end of verse. As he
was fond to poetry, and you can always get something with the princes who love songs, gave to
think about the adventure of the parrot. We agreed then the queen of what was in the piece
of Zadig memory book, ordered him to be traxesen, and comparing the two pieces was seen to leave
each other, and the verses of Zadig, read as he had written were the following:

A nasty monster is the bloody war Today alone governs the Chaldean king without frights: Irresistible
love his throne is on earth; Ugly power who does not enjoy the same
tastes.

     
     
     When he ordered the king to Zadig traxeran his presence,
     and out of prison to his two friends and the beautiful lady.

He fell to the ground face Zadig to the king and plants the queen, he entreated her pardon
humbly for the bad poetry he had composed, and spoke with such Donayre, wisdom and wit, that
the monarchs would again see him, turned, and like best. We award the property of the envious
that he had wrongly accused: the restored Zadig all, and only affect the heart of his accuser
was the joy of not losing what they had. Day by day is increasing appreciation that King of Zadig
to: convidábale to all his recreations, and consulted him on all issues. Since that time the
queen began to regard him with complacency that could have serious dangers to her, to her August husband,
Zadig and the entire kingdom, and Zadig to believe that it is not difficult thing to live happily.

CHAPTER
V.

Generous.

Then came the era of the celebrity of a solemn festival to which every five years, because it
was Babylon style solemnly declare, after five years, citizens qual had made the most generous
action. The judges were great and wise men. He stated the first Satrap charge of city government,
the most illustrious actions done in time of his government and the judges voted, and the
king pronounced the decision. End of ground spectators flocked to this solemnity. He was the
winner of the hand of a monarch golden cup adorned with precious stones, and told the king
these words: "Receive this prize giving, and oxalic Gods grant me many vassals to resemble you.
"

At this memorable day, I leave it to see the king on his throne, surrounded by large, magicians
and deputies of all nations, which came, in some games where not the way of horses, nor the
physical strength, but by virtue grange glory. Recited aloud Satrap quale actions by their
authors could earn the inestimable prize, and not even spoke of the generosity with which Zadig
had restored all his wealth to envy: this action was not worthy of
the prize contest.

First presented to a judge that having, by virtue of a mistake that
was not responsible, missed an important pleyto against a citizen,
had given all his wealth, which was what equivalent to the loss of
the litigant.

Then produxo a young man who lost the love of a maiden who was getting
married, are nevertheless gave it to a friend, who was to death for
love of it, and also gave a virgin.

He then brought to a military that the war had given exemplo still Hircania greater generosity.
Suam Llevábanse to some enemy soldiers, and while he was defending against them, came to say
that other Hyrcanus were carried away by his mother; and left crying to his mistress, to liberate
the mother.

Quando returned to take the defense of his mistress, found expiring, and declined to death, but
he represented his mother had nothing but support him, and had a mind to suffer life.

Inclinábanse judges for this soldier, but the king speaking, said: "Action is noble yours, and so
are those of the other, but I Pasman, and yesterday was one that I Zadig has stunned. A few
days ago that has fallen from grace Coroebus my, my minister and valid. Quejábame it vehemently,
and all the palace told me I was too merciful Everyone said to Coroebus evil stubbornness. Asked
his opinion to Zadig, and dared to Allah. QNE confess I have seen stories in our exemplar of paying
a mistake with its flow, given his mistress, his mother a prefix
or the object of his love, but I've never read a palace has that property
of a fallen minister who was angry with his sovereign.

Each of those whose shares have been recited give him twenty thousand gold coins, but the cup I give
to Zadig.

Lord said this, your highness is the only one who deserves it, and who has the most outrageous
action, as being king is not angry with his slave that contradicted his passion. All held admired
the king and Zadig. King received the gifts of the judge had QUS given flow, the lover who had
married his beloved with his friend, and soldier before wanted to deliver his mother to his
mistress, and won the cup Zadig.

Grangeóse the king's reputation good prince, who did not keep a long
time and devoted the day with festivities that lasted more than they
prescribed the law, even his memory preserved in Asia.

Zadig was saying: with that in the end I'm happy! but Zadig was mistaken.

CHAPTER

VI.

The minister.

Having lost the king to his prime minister, chose to Zadig for this role. All the beautiful
ladies of Babylon applauded the choice, because there had never been minister as youth from the
foundation of the empire felt all the palace, the envious will took a vomit blood, and was extremely
swollen face. Zadig gave thanks the king and the queen, and was then to give it to the parrot.
Beautiful sparrow, said to him, you have been whom I have delivered life, and who have made
me prime minister. I had done much harm the dog and the horse of their Majesties, but you
have made me much good.

Lies in what things the fate of humans! But my happiness might fade in a few moments. The
parrot answered before. Zadig to blow gave the word, because he was of good physical I did not
think that parrots were prophets, then quieted, and began to serve his position as best he could.

Made
worldwide to reach the sacred power of the laws, and to overwhelm any the weight of his dignity.
Freedom did not prevent votes on the divan, and every vizier might, without dislike, sets
out its opinion. Quando failed a matter of law, not he, was the one who failed; but this was very
severe Quando, softens, and when missing law, to its equity such could have been attributed to Zoroaster.
It was he who I leave connected to the nations great principle that is worth a prisoner release,
to condemn an ??innocent. I thought it was fate of laws succor not less intimidating citizens.
His main skill Cifrábase in seeking to unravel the truth all dark. This ability was served from
early days of his administration. Had died in India too became a merchant of Babylon, and having
forsaken his wealth in equal shares to his two sons, after giving his daughter, dexaba also a legacy
of thirty thousand pieces of gold to that of their children to decided that he had wanted more.
The more he erected a tomb, and gave it to her younger sister part of his estate on the rise of
her dowry. The people said: The most wanted more to his father, and the child wants more to
his sister: the thirty thousand pieces should be given to the highest. Called Zadig on them both,
and told him the most: your father is not dead, he has healed from his last illness, and returns
to Babylon. Thank God, "replied the boy, but his tomb fed had cost me dearly. The same is
then said to Zadig the child. Thank God, he replied, I shall return to my father all quanto
I have, but I want my sister dexase what I have given.

Restituiréis not nothing, 'said Zadig, and it will give thirty thousand coins, which you You are
the one You wanted your father more.

Had been a rich maiden troth to two wizards, and after receiving Both instructions a few months,
was found on tape. Both wanted to marry her. The maid said that he
would be her husband had put the state to give citizens the empire.
One said: I have been who have done good work, the other: No, I who
I had so much joy