 That lends itself to the tree lighting and
the green grass and flowers somewhat vague and beauty. The hustle and bustle give pleasure
to the upper.

Women, when not blinded by vanity or the itch to excel, are usually well-dressed. In twenty one can
say that, at best, and not much is usually entrusted the devil for the eye and comb, where it
appears in the Gardens made a hag; but the other nineteen are as God intended, a blanket,
hat other, not few are very pretty, either way it carried.

All that, in general, could censor that night, and may even criticized in the suit women, is
along the lines. To walk to the Gardens, and although they go in car, to walk after walk, is
all that ugly and dirty white petticoat attachment dress that drags, gathering dust, lifting
and spreading in the air, and sweeping, finally, how much filth is the step. The queue is not
good but for clean walk on soft carpets, marble or burnished, lustrous, precious or and polished
wood, embedded in the form of elaborate mosaic. To walk the streets or the field, where there
is usually mud and who knows what worse, a woman of taste must without
the tail.

Some, but are less, do without now.

At night we are referring to was declaiming against the tails a little gentleman, as twenty-eight
years, newly arrived from Germany and France, and the most elegant,
bold and cheerful can imagine.

Rodeábanle, and involuntarily admired him and thank him were laughing, others five young men from
the most prim and haughty in Madrid.

Our orator had come so late is for a home business. Planned to spend in Madrid three or four
weeks at most and go to Biarritz in September.

He had the reputation of a skull, but not the skulls and exploited
victims nor executioners and operators.

Although generous, used to lend to those who call themselves friends and had taken borrowed
from loan sharks, and he knew contained when I played and lost, and
not let anyone loot their managers, and carried in memory all their
properties, income and products, and watched for everything, and when
I was with your account and reason, and without ever blinded by vanity
or affection.

This gentleman had more than 15,000 dollars a year, was unmarried, Andalusian, did not have a single
debt, and bore the title of Count of Alhedín the Alto.

I had never wanted to study or continue any race. It was, however, curious and clear; I had
read many novels and popular and entertaining of all kinds of wisdom: and with this, and the treatment
of the world, and travel for the best in Europe, had come to have a spirit quite cultivated and
understood everything, though briefly.

He hated politics. To hate newspapers. I never took one in hand but to read ads. Contemporary
public events teased him and would not learn them. Poetry was a thousand times more ancient
stories that modern, and interested falling more than Sardanapalus
Napoleon III, and the fabulous achievements of Osiris those of the
first Napoleon.

He had not wanted to decide himself whether it was realistic or Republican,
liberal or illiberal supporter of this Constitution or that.

In religion and philosophy was less lazy, but if politics was irrelevant in this another was uncertain.
In that, it mattered little if not resolved, in this, in spite of himself, not resolved.

Moreover, as I do with the practicality of his life and his conduct, Count Alhedín had a philosophy
of self, a particular doctrine, a collection of principles which
served as a guide and standard for behavior.

Réstame say that this hero, I put in the field, was of medium height, graceful, strong and
agile. Pulling the foil as few, and with a gun in his hand almost no one is ahead. Great rider
and a good hunter, he had never boasted of a bullfighter. What we did have a hobby, for two or
three years of his earliest youth, was to imitate Leotard, and with such success, flying through
the air, in the combined traps, like a witch.

It was not without however, but a nice guy, dark, beautiful eyes, dark-haired and twisted
whiskers shiny and well groomed beard.

Having lectured against queues reported a series of anecdotes that
occurred to him or to someone you know, in foreign lands where it
came from.

Some of these stories were hunting or riding, the most were of love, finding means of disseminating
their triumphs and conquests, who pretended to believe or believed
their partners, or rather, his audience Count it was of those who,
whether they speak beautifully, fatigue and offend the least suffered,
monopolizing the use of the word and not consenting, as they say,
that no goal but they trick or spoon.

Despite this monopoly is not to deny that the Count was funny in conversation. Speaking, loved
or dazzled.

Recounted how few, and with such art, which he believed history, although it was a lie, and
the audience used to believe it too.

It seems that the imagination and memory were in Count one and only faculty of the soul.

He was petulant, but smugly cute, cheerful and sweet, no one offended. Its fine Figure nice manners
and did much to produce such good effect.

That night they had taken to denigrate everything.

Reminding the Russian princess, the ladies English to German Countess, the French du Faubourg
Saint-Germain, and even the Phanariotes Greek, which was treated with the utmost privacy, it
was not worth holding a damn all women who were walking at that time in the outfield.

"Just - he said - if this whole miserable crowd can cull half dozen warrant a declaration of
love. "

Friends challenged as cruel censorship, and the Count, to defend himself,
holding his opinion grace and naturalness.

As was well disputed and walking, he suddenly noticed that he walked in front of two women two
tiny, slim, young people apparently, but only from behind the saw,
and something had heard and continued to hear of his diatribe and
dispute, because occasionally whispering and laughed, as if their
comments to the conversation of those who came back.

Conde had not seen the face of any of those two women. The costume of them all eye was remarkably
vulgar and profane. The one dressed in black silk light and the other a dark suit of calico
poor, the two were on their blanket. There was, however, such neatness and toilet in the whole
being and even the environment that surrounded and enveloped those women that, without managing the
explanation, the Count seemed to feel like a magnetic current, and got to imagine that these
two women were challenging his assertion, and that any of them considered, with good reason, an
argument alive, very strong and irresistible, against their foolish statements.

Conde also warned that both had nice body and graceful movements unaffected
and wearing the skirt gathered enough to not blemished or powdering
awkwardly sand and so they could descry from time to time her tiny
feet, sharp, high torso and footwear dedication botincillos funny.

The desire to see their faces was felt immediately in the mind of Conde, but they, perhaps suspecting
that desire, not turn their face, may to counter and make you more alive.

The Count had to walk faster and move ahead of them to look at them. Then he saw with a pleasant
surprise that both were pretty. In the face were declaring that they
were sisters.

They looked to the air like we call family, and were all very different. The older and smaller
of stature, of the silk dress, was brunette, with eyes and black hair, as a cherry red lips and
white teeth that showed laughing.

The smaller, calico dress, was taller and seemed to have four or
five years younger than the other, ten and eight at most, was white
and blonde with blue eyes, and properly looked like an angel.

No laughed so much as most, and was more serious and less carefree.

He had a singular expression sweetness, serenity and quiet contentment.

Count

well known that unknown to him, nor were they of what they call the
society or could not be placed in any of the levels of the hierarchy
of the straight.

His piercing gaze and knew at once that experienced were both middle
class, or poor, or very modest, that must have been married brunette
and the blonde was single.

Saw anyone accompanying them, and thought he noticed they were in a hurry and have come as repentant
alone and that if one side were flattered to have self-esteem as
the attention of disdainful lover, the other went suspicious, almost
appalled that little triumph.

Among the friends of Conde had boasted of knowing that all Madrid, high, low and medium, provided
the people belonged to women.

The Count asked who were those girls. All looked on, and they all said they did not know.

- Are outsiders - added one.

- Will be new to London - said another.

- Must be either Malaga or Seville - exclaimed a third.

- Sevillanas son - said the Count -. I have no doubt.

He made a pompous eulogy of Seville in general with clear allusions
to the two who went before and that such was, and spoke much louder
voice that he had used in the rant, so you might hear them and serve
his speech as a function of relief.

But the ladies seemed to fear the praise and not satire.

No sooner were heard commending tightened step, and taking advantage of a moment of confusion
and noise, tried to slip away.

The Count was stare at them. He followed that movement, he saw that were in the garden advantage
and also the noise he was separated from his friends, as if by chance
the lost, and took the street of trees where he saw the two young
men had rushed looking the garden gate.

It seemed ridiculous that a man so run like the running then desalted after two poor girls. Earl
was not considered aristocratic and arrogant, but rookie or ensign estudiantillo fresh out
of school.

But despite its judicious reflections, the Count was in pursuit of
these women, and even formed the purpose of talking about saliesen
the garden so that, in the case of a sofión, which he deserved for
his sick vulgar bad parenting, not subjects might see him it might
have.

Leaving the garden he saw the Count to his valet, he would call the driver to come over victory.

-
Ramon! - Said the Count -. Go and wait at the door of the Swift-Club.

A little victory snapped.

The count continued to rise to the two women.

Two or three times approached them and tried to speak. He looked at them, he faced them, almost
stopped, but was so ugly, so plebeian as rude, abuse and that they were alone two women and
chase and want to talk to them, which was contained and did not speak.

In the midst of this hesitation, the two women were passing an empty car. Seized it quickly gave
the driver the address, paid for in advance and double pulverized,
and breaks out the way, up the Calle de Alcala and then entered by
the Turk.

The Count wanted to follow, but his car had gone to the Fast, and no rental cars appeared.

Remained, then, our hero standing like a fool at the height of the
fountain of Cibeles and mocking of himself by the series of silly
and childish he had done.

Who knows if it would be some grisette, some teachers of primary education that had come to
competitions, or something equally corny, those two had been doing what nor ever did queens and
empresses?

III

The Count of Alhedín was careful to have the Swift-Club thwarted his attempted prosecution and
the disdain with which he had tried the two unknown.

"I returned to the Jardines del Buen Retiro - said to himself -, and find out there tomorrow
last year. They will return. Do not awaken the greed of friends with excessive praise. God
knows how many would endeavor to conquer, and I would be hindered, if not beat me. I'm not in love
with either. I never believed in sudden passion.

But my Curiosity is extraordinary. Each is beautiful in style and full of unlearned elegance.
I do not know what decide if the blonde or the brunette.

The same indecision increases my desire to see them again. What we observe in the new view
and decide for me one or the other.

Truth is that this preference only comes time for something. I spend my time with both, but
we must start by me want one.

If they were not sisters, if they did not walk together, or could I rush to the time the two
victories, but remain as they are, should be in order.

"

This soliloquy, made and repeated in myriad ways, but in substance the same always, he held the
thought of Count for two days and two nights.

Hallábanle distracted peers.

He apologized, without stating the real reason distraction.

Meanwhile, or on the streets or in the gardens at night, or anywhere else, became Count to see
the two beauties, more than wanted.

And that he had a keen eye and always going to care if he spent nearly escaped him.

The Count thought endowed with prodigious wisdom to find mysteries to learn about qualities of people
just for the track or trace. Was judged as seasoned and expert in As regards human society as the
ancient sages said lone East they were in it depends on Mother Nature. Zadig had understood
and described all conditions and circumstances of the horse of the King and Queen's dog just
by looking at their footprints stamped into the ground. The Count, in his art, was nothing less
than Zadig, and took for sure he really say who the two strangers simply because if any seen for a
moment, but I did not think, I did not wonder about this point. Another more vanity than vanity to
be as expert stopped him. The vanity of believing left interesting for those women, who had seen
him and had noticed his pursuit, return after looking for him, first yaw or repentant or unrepentant,
but following the same purposes as the leak, according to Conde, had been very much in place,
so penalty of having humiliated them to pass easily tired and light, lending from the first time accompanied
by left who knew neither the name, only because they had repaired certainly he was rich, titled
and have a car.

The Condesito would not, therefore, not bother with the thought in looking at the two beauties,
because I was pretty sure they would return to find him.

As there again or the next night or the night after, he was crushed Condesito and even offended.

In
his conceit forged several hypotheses to explain further, and involuntary
and spite of the unknown, its absence from the Gardens.

"Who knows - I thought the Count -. Maybe the husband did not get out.

You may have the married a boy with measles. "

In short, all supposed to not assume that perfectly free will by leaving to go the girls on
a date which, implicitly, but clearly, he so handsome, so distinguished, so illustrious, so
rich and seductive, had given them to the Gardens and can not be understood or course in relations
with them not to miss the respect and social considerations.

With so comforting speeches Count hardly dominated his impatience, went two nights at the Gardens,
and also saw the ladies.

And then decided to use their wisdom and their activity to look.

"If
you flee, if they hide - he said - is because I fear. The look for
me. I will find them. "

Justified and the work that discourse would
be taken, which was running in Condesito summary we will expose.

The
Seville was unknown. They could be Malaga, as assumed that ignorant.
Confusing to Seville with Malaga is a crass error as a philanderer
Andalusian that women should know as a hunter mistaking a quail with
a dove. It was also clear that she was married, among other reasons
because, if both single, would not go alone. The marriage was the
brunette. In this no doubt. Known in older, and in other evidence
that together all reached the most complete certainty. Who was married
the brunette? Both were outsiders, new to Madrid, since no one knew.
It was not probably had come to Madrid to have fun, because then the
husband, farmer, rancher, merchant or something, some people in Andalusia
and Seville itself, should have accompanied and he also amuse and
curiosearía. The husband should be a busy man. What occupation could
have a husband in Madrid, but of a government employment? The Count
therefore decided that the husband was an employee. Calculated, finally,
by air had something mysterious the unknown, of some concern to note
that he had believed in them, that night they were in the Gardens
had been without previous permission of the husband, improvising that
trip at a time when he was missing from home, save loyalty to tell
the prudent course for to approve and legitimize the fact. If all
this assumption was accurate, the husband sometimes worked at night,
home away from home. At night he works in many offices; but none are
as common as the long evenings in the Interior or Finance. The husband
was, therefore, employed in one of these two ministries.

Discovered
the enigma to this point, needed to know the name of the husband and
where he lived; but this was very easy.

Before the appropriate investigations,
as the name of a person and number and street of a house can not be
guessed by mere speech, even if you have an understanding excruciating,
Count, fond of exercising his thought also below.

Fashionable society
is easier, more open in Madrid than in any other European capital,
even for women. Here no one asks, before letting go, whether it is
or less noble birth, more or less rich. The most haughty woman does
not disdain to friend not ashamed to be accompanied by their daughters
or wife of a clerk anyone provided that their manners and are not
unpresentable facade. Poverty is forgiven dress also, as no notice
is made by presumed abominable extravagance or bad taste. No leading
lady or semi-major not a welcome to the most modest provincial, who
met in the field or in some bathrooms or in some provincial town,
and that the call premium and the treated as a relative, if by chance
it is.

"In Madrid - thinking the Count - many people now lack in
the summer, but Madrid has not been desert