 

It was her young son had seen entering the harbor when he was going to take charge the schooner
to carry fuel to German submarines.

VIII

The young Telemachus

Whenever the Mare Nostrum back to Barcelona, ??Esteban Ferragut felt a sense glare, just as if
it was opened a glorious window in his dark existence child and family monotonous.

No longer wandering the harbor, admiring from afar the great ocean liners anchored off the Columbus
monument or cargo vapors that lined the commercial docks. A vessel important was his absolute
property for several weeks. The captain and officers spent ground
time with their families.

Toni, the second was the only one who slept on board. Many of the sailors asked permission to
live in the city, and the steam is entrusted to Caragol Uncle guard with half a dozen men for
daily cleaning.

The small Ferragut could be under the illusion that he was the captain of the Mare Nostrum. He moved imagining
that the bridge was braving a storm; examining instruments water
with a severity of knowledgeable expert, ran all departments habitable
ship, down to the cellars, which aireaban, open, pending charge, and
finally got into the boat service, undoing of the scale, to row a
few hours with more satisfaction Yoles that in light of the Race Club.

His visits ended in the kitchen, invited by his uncle Caragol, who
treated him with a familiarity paternal.

The young oarsman was sweating. "A refresquet ?...» and preparing the sweet mixture, I did fall
to men of a single jump in the nebulosity of intoxication.

Stephen had much the "soft" chef.

His imagination, excited by the frequent Travel reading novels had made him conceive a type of
marine heroic, daring, philanderer, and able to swallow the beverage jars incendiary without blinking.
He wanted If so, every good mariner should drink.

While on the ground did not know other spirits that the innocent and sweet kept by his mother
family holiday once trod the deck of the ship felt the need for fluids
alcoholics, to show that he was a man.

"There was a beverage in the world that could with him ... And the second "refresh" the uncle
was sunk in a placid Caragol nirvana, seeing all pink and considerably enlarged: the sea, nearby
ships, the docks and the mountain of Montjuic, which served as background.

The cook, to behold with his eyes lovingly sick, he thought he had a jump dozen years ago and is
still in Valencia talking to the other Ferragut that University escape to paddle in the harbor.
Almost came to believe that he had lived twice.

The boy listened to the complaints, interrupting with solemn advice. This Ferragut fifteen years
of life showed discontent. He was a man, and had to live among women: his mother and two nieces
who accompanied him making lace, as she had accompanied once to his
mother Dona Cristina.

I wanted to be a sailor, and he was forced to study the Baccalaureate unfriendly materials.
Can a captain needs to know Latin? ...

Wanted to end his life as a student, to become a pilot and follow the practices in the bridge
next to his father. Maybe you'll command the thirty years or another ship Mare Nostrum similar.

Meanwhile,
the lure of the sea drew him away from the classroom, going to see
Caragol at the same time the roll call teachers to the students, noting
their absence.

The old man and his protégé are recruited in the kitchen with a responsible concern. Steps and voices
on the cover altered their conversation. "Hide!"

And Stephen crawled under a table or hidden in the storeroom of the provisions, while the cook
came out to meet the newcomer with a seraphic face.

Sometimes it was Toni, and the boy ventured out, with his silence. It also will wanted and approved
of his distaste for the books.

If from time to time was the captain who came to the ship for a few
moments, he spoke Caragol obstructing the door with his body, while
smiling slyly.

For Stephen, the two most worthy of admiration were the sea and his father. All heroes novelistic
that from the pages of the books had gone to stay in his imagination had the face and gestures
of Captain Ferragut.

As a child he had seen sometimes to mourn his mother with sad resignation.

Years later, to meet with his precocious little boy watched the relationships between men and women,
he felt that all these tears should be motivated by indiscretions
and infidelities Far navigator.

He loved his mother with a passion only child and spoiled, but not
least the captain admired, excusing all sins that might commit.

His father was the bravest man and most beautiful land. So he saw it. And one day, examining the
drawers in his cabin, found several photographs of women wearing the foot the names of distant
countries, his admiration was even larger.

All must be mad with love for the captain of the Mare Nostrum. Ay! For more than him to do
to be a man, never get to catch up with the winner to had given the existence ...

When the ship came to Barcelona without their owner around Naples, the son of Ferragut experienced no
surprise.

Toni, who was always short, lavished on this occasion. Captain Ferragut had been there for a business,
but would soon return. His second will expected at any moment.

Perhaps hiciese land travel to get there first.

Esteban was amazed to see that his mother did not accept this absence as an insignificant event.
The good lady was concerned and the watery eyes.

Her feminine instinct made him sensed something wrong with the delay of her husband.

In the afternoon, when he visited, as usual, his former love the professor,
the two spoke slowly, with measured words, but understood his eyes
during the long intervals of silence.

Pedro arrived at the pinnacle of his illustrious career with the possession
of a professorship at the Institute Barcelona, ??visiting every afternoon
to tape, and a half hours from his room exactly clockwork.

Not the slightest thought of impurity professor never stirred.

The past had forgotten ... But he needed daily to see the captain's wife knitting lace between
two young nieces as she had seen years before the widow of Ferragut.

Let him know the most important events in Barcelona and around the world, discussing them the future
destiny of Stephen, he heard her sweet voice with rapture, to attach great importance to the
details of domestic economy or to the descriptions of religious holidays,
just because it was she who had such accounts.

Often remained in a long silence. Don Pedro represented patience, humor equal respect silent, quiet
and clean the house, lost his composure only monastic the present owner for a few days, including
two trips.

Tape had been accustomed to the visits of Professor.

By checking the clock half past three sensed his footsteps on the stairs.

If any evening did not arrive, the sweet Penépole suffered a disappointment.

- What will happen to Don Pedro? - Asked with concern to his nieces.

This question was sometimes extended to the child, but Stephen, without hating the visitor liked
him very little.

Don Pedro belonged to the group of those gentlemen of the Institute
that the government paid for teaser with their explanations and their
reviews to the youth.

Still remembered two years had happened in his chair, and in a chamber of torture, suffering the
punishment of Latin. He was also a coward, always afraid and did not dare take cold to go out
on days cloudy if the umbrella was missing.

He spoke of you brave men.

- I do not know his mother answered ...-- -.

May be stuck in bed, with seven headscarves.

When I returned Don Pedro, the house resumed its normal slow clock and safe. Doña Film, from
consultation to consultation, he had finally consider indispensable
for your cooperation.

Professor sweetly made up for the husband's authority traveler, he had to represent the head of
the family in all foreign affairs ... I often looked forward to Ferragut's wife for advice urgently,
and he issued his opinion in a slow voice, after much reflection.

Esteban was intolerable that this man, who was but a distant relative of grandmother, meddling
in the affairs of the house, trying to address him as a father. But irritated him even more
to see in a good mood and with claims of funny.

He was angry that flames Penépole his mother and him Telemachus ... "Uncle lateral and heavy!"

The
young Telemachus did not hesitate in their revenge. Small interrupted their diversions for
"Work" in the hall, next to the neighbor to the door hanger. And the poor professor was dented
his top hat, hair in disarray, or in carrying out the Haldas several
spit coat.

Now the boy was confined to ignore its existence, going before him without giving him, greeting him
only when his mother told him to.

The day brought news of the return of steam without their captain, Don Pedro made the visit longer
than usual.

Tape shed two tears on the laces, but had to cut her tears, overcome by the good sense to your
counselor.

- Why mourn and head warm with so many unfounded assumptions? ... What you should do, my dear,
is to call that Toni is the second ship. He should know all ... Maybe tell you the truth.

Stephen received the commission to seek the next day, and could see the concern Toni experienced
knowing that he wanted to talk Dona Cinta. Ship left the gloomy silence, as if it leads to death suffer
torture. Then she sang quietly, it was in The indication of serious concern.

Unable to attend the young Telemachus to the interview, but he hung near the door closed overheard some
words louder than they slipped through the cracks. His mother was the one who spoke more often.
Toni dully repeating the same excuses: "I do not know. The captain is going to get from one point
to another ... "But to look beyond the classroom and the house, broke his anger against himself,
against his character that he knew damn lie, against all women, bad
and good.

Thought he had said too much. This lady had judge's ability to extract the words.

At night, at the dinner, the mother just gasped. His fingers reported a nervous trembling to
the plates and forks. Looked at her son with tragic commiseration as if he sensed enormous misfortunes
that were about to collapse on his head.

Opposed a silence desperate to Stephen's questions, and finally exclaimed:

- Your father left us! ... Your father has forgotten us! ...

And left the room to hide the tears that had flowed into his eyelids.

The boy slept a little uneasy, but fell asleep. The admiration he felt for his father and some
strong solidarity with copies of their sex made him take some little
tears.

Women Talking Dirty! His mother could not be the wife of an extraordinary man as Captain Ferragut.
He, who was a man in spite of its short tenure, he was going to intervene
in the case to clarify the truth.

When Toni, from the deck of the ship, saw him move through the dock the next morning, was tempted
to hide ... "Doña tape, which was called for questioning again !...»

But was relieved to tell the boy who came for their willingness to spend some time in Mare nostrum. Still,
wanted to avoid his presence, as if afraid some careless talk with
him, and pretended to work in the cellars.

Then came the ship, going to visit a friend vapor in a remote.

Stephen went into the kitchen, calling cheerfully to Uncle Caragol. Nor was it the same. His
eyes were moist and red looked at the boy with an extraordinary tenderness.

Suddenly stopped language, with a look of concern on his face.

Looked undecided about him, as if he feared it was to open a cliff
at his feet.

Never forgot the respect due to every visitor to your domains, and
prepared two "soft."

For the first time Stephen was about to give away to this return trip. Previous days, by seems unlikely
that the fact had not even thought to make one of his delirious concoctions. The return of Naples
to Barcelona had been sad, the vessel had a funereal atmosphere without its owner.

For all these reasons, it was the hand to the extent Caragol, lavishing
the shank to the liquid took snuff color.

Drank ... The young Telemachus began to speak of his father when only vessels guarding the half
of the "refresh" and the cook waved both hands in the air, giving a grunt which meant their desire
not to deal with the absence of captain.

- Your father will return, Estevet - added -. Return, but do not know when. Surely later ensuring Toni.

And
meaning no more, swallowed the rest of the vessel, engaged in making
a second "drink" rushed for lost time.

Little by little they broke the barrier prudent containing his verbosity, and spoke with the
same abandoned forever, but his flow of words drew no accurate news.

Caragol preached moral Ferragut's son, a moral in his own way, interrupted by frequent touch
the glass.

- Esteve, my son, your father is very respectful. Imitate as a seaman. Be good and righteous to
men who send ... but women fleeing!

Women! ... There was no better theme for pious drunken eloquence. The world infused pity. Everything
was ruled by the infernal attraction to the female. Men worked, fought, they wanted to be rich or
famous, all to win possession of a piece of meat, the most filthy and shameful of the human
body.

- Watch how it will be, Estevet that even in food animals is not known chef who use it. I always
throw it away ... Believe me, my son: do not imitate your father
about it.

The old man had said too much to go back, and had to go dropping everything to pieces Left. So
he learned that Captain Stephen walked in an affair with a woman
from Naples, and had stayed there pretending business, but in reality
dominated by the influence of this woman.

- Is it pretty?

"- Asked the boy eagerly.

- Gorgeous - said Caragol -. And some smells!

... Noise and fine clothes! ...

Telemachus shook with a contradictory feeling of pride and envy. He admired his father again,
but this admiration only lasted a few moments. A new idea seized
him, while the cook was still talking.

- Do not come yet.

I know what these women are elegant and full of incense: true interlocking nails demons when
they grab and you have to cut off their hands to let go ... And the
ship without working, as if he were stranded, while others are filled
with gold!

... Believe me, my son in the world only this is true.

And finally to drink in one gulp all that remained of the second vessel.

Meanwhile, the boy was taking shape in his mind to an idea suggested by sweet intoxication. If he were
to Naples to bring his father! ...

At this point everything seemed possible. The world was rosy, as it always glass in hand watching
the guy next Caragol. The obstacles were soft, everything is arranged with prodigious ease, the
men could walk to falls.

But hours later, when his thought was seductive cloudless, was afraid
remembering of his father.

How you would get to see him get there ... What excuse him of his presence in Naples? ... Trembled
evoking the image of his frown and his eyes are red.

The next day, a sudden confidence overcame this concern.

He remembered the captain as he had seen a few times to celebrate
from the deck of his exploits rower at the port of Barcelona or to
discuss with friends the intelligence and strength your child.

The father of the hero image in his memory now emerged with kind eyes and a smile that seemed
to shake like a fresh wind, the forest of his beard.

I would tell the whole truth. We do know that coming to Naples to take him as a good comrade
who aids another in danger. Perhaps irritated and give him a blow,
but he achieve his purpose.

Ferragut's character was revived in him with all the strength of a decisive argument. If travel
was absurd and dangerous ... Better! Much better! This was enough to undertake it. He was a man,
and should not know fear.

For two weeks to prepare their escape. I had never done a big trip. Only once had accompanied
his father on a quick business trip to Marseilles.

It was already time to come out to run the world a man like him, who knew from his reading almost
all the peoples of land.

The money did not care.

Doña tape had it in abundance, and it was easy to find your bunch keys. A vapor old and slow,
sent by a friend of his father, had just entered the port and sailed the next day to Italy.

This
sailor's son accepted his comrade without travel papers. The fix the irregular with friends
in Genoa. Among these services were captains, and Ulises Ferragut, which waiting for his son in
Naples - Esteban said so - was not going to waste time in vain a clerical formalities.

Telemachus, a thousand pesetas in his pocket a sewing learned that
his mother served safe, he embarked the next day.

A small suitcase taken from her home with slow and clever tricks was all his luggage.

From Genoa he went to Rome, and thence to Naples, with the boldness of innocence, using words
Spanish and Catalan to reinforce a short Italian lexical representations acquired operetta.
The only positive report held him on his journey of adventure was
the name Hostels the shore of St. Lucia had given Caragol as a residence
of his father.

Seek this in vain for several days. He visited Naples to the agents, which imagine the captain
back to his country a long time.

Not finding was afraid. Should already be in Barcelona, ??and what
had begun as a heroic journey was going to be a naughty teen drain.
He remembered his mother, maybe cry to those hours re-reading the
letter he had left to announce In order to escape. 

Also came suddenly
the intervention of Italy in the war, an event that everyone expected,
but many were still distant. What was left to do in this country?
... And one morning there disappeared.

As the hotel porter could
not say more, the father, once the first impression surprise, he thought
about the advisability of visiting the home consignee. Perhaps there
should give you other news.

The war was the only thing interesting
to this office. But Ferragut, ship owner and former client, was led
by the director to find those employees who had received to Esteban.

Do
not know much. Vaguely remembered a young Spanish man who claimed
to be the son of Captain asking this news. His last visit was two
days earlier. Torn between returning to his country by rail or embark
on one of the three ships that were in port ready to leave for Marseilles.

-
I think it has gone by train - said one employee.

Another of them
supported his companion with strong affirmation to attract the eye
of the boss. Was sure of his ground game. He himself had helped to
calculate what it would cost the trip to Barcelona.

Ferragut not
want to know more. I needed to leave soon. This trip unexplained his
son was for him a regret and a cause for alarm. What happened in your
home?

The office manager told a French steamer that came that afternoon
to Marseille from Suez. The fix was in charge of all matters relating
to recommend its passage and Captain. There were only four hours for
the departure of the ship, and Ulysses, after collecting your bags
and send them on board, took a last walk by all the places he had
lived with Freya. Goodbye, gardens of the Villa Nazionale, white Aquarius!
... Goodbye, albergo! ...

The unexplained presence of his son in
Naples had softened the disappointment of the flight German. He thought
sadly of lost love, but thought at the same time, with painful hesitation,
as you might see upon entering your home.

Shortly before sunset the
French steamer sailed. For many years sailed Ulysses as a mere passenger.
Wandered bewildered through the crowd covers travel. The force of
habit drew him to the bridge, talking to the captain and officers,
which appreciated at the first words his professional merit.

The
consideration that was but an intruder on this site, the discomfort
of being on a bridge that could not give any orders, made him descend
to the lower decks, examining groups of passengers. French were mostly
coming from the Indo China. In the bow and stern were housed Asian
shooters four companies, small yellow, with slanting eyes and a voice
like the meowing of cats. Iban to war. Its officers were living in
cabins amidships, bringing with them their families, who had taken
an exotic with long tenure in the colonies.

Ulysses saw ladies dressed
in white getting fan, lying on couches and their little chinoiserie
pages; military saw tanned and lean, sickly-looking, which seemed
galvanized the war that tore at the Asian nap, and girls, many girls,
happy to go to France, the country of his dreams, forgetting the joy
that parents initiated such time to death.

Navigation could not be
better. The Mediterranean was a plain silver in the light of moon.
Invisible coast came warm breaths of perfume country. Groups memory
were covered with a selfish satisfaction of the great dangers that
face people to embark on the North Sea, full of German submarines.
Fortunately, the Mediterranean was free from such a calamity. The
English were well guarded gate of Gibraltar, and yet he was a calm
lake dominated by allies