 Everything that was said in
contrast, was an innocent lie to exploit their ignorance. You could have picked in one of their
ambushes, like a fox in the trap, as it would take insurance if you have walked there ...

This is thrilled with horror the distraught woman and fell back on his knees before me to ask
me crucified by God not to do such a thing. She also had ever happened that could not be true
all that he said "the order of those individuals'; but so what? ... If that was not grieved that, but the
noise and fear of scandal to the place found out the case, then Don Celso and, above all,
his daughter, Oh, this ever! ... Cover, cover, and no more than cover! ... Therefore, your
life and a hundred lives and a thousand lives; the agony on the cross, in the glow of a furnace,
dismembered alive ... Buried in health, frogs and snakes.

- What about the theft too? - With ill-concealed interrupted harshly.

-
Lord - I responded as terrified by the sound of the question -.

Although capable off EYU, what do I know HERE saves on my master's wealth, or whether it is
even home?

Here I mentioned, spirit and troubled, after sitting down again, by my repeated mandates how,
not having the courage to do what was proposed by the infamous, or resolution enough to refuse,
had been entertaining him impatience with that objection and that of the continued presence of
myself and other people in the house because of the recurrence of his love (because this happened
in the days that followed the snow) but, although all knew about him to none of this was of
no importance: on the contrary, argued that under those chores and concerns, it was like she
could best achieve their attempts, whether placed by work. This, for good, because if he still
looked very much, would come to bad, then, for bad or good, it had
to be done, and in the air.

The poor do not know what course to take in this circle of hot iron, burning, and as the impatience
of the rogue did not give the slightest respite, one day, the day before Facia of which had me,
had told him: "Since we do not take it with you to solve your hands, "we" decided "we" steal
with ours. By midnight tomorrow, when there is no sign of man in the kitchen or embers spark
at home and sleep everyone in the house, get to the gate of the lane. Then you will hear a
hiss of the air (And whistled softly in a way). Needless to hear you and you come creeping to
astragalus I open the door with such finesse and care that neither of them know about it hinges.
The rest is on us. We'll come to the cat, which is hidden. If any too light to sleep, tummy
to in saecula as soon as you wake up, and the first your master, if it has not been started
by his nephew ... and not left to tie all submissiveness to order the case. So you're forewarned,
and how it has cost you. Knowing that life I play trance, imagine what I care for yours if to
put it in a lawsuit because you have gone a little tongue all day, and because of it does not
find the house at night in the calm and tranquility that always had those hours. "

Having said all this with a fierce cynicism, he departed, leaving more dead than alive Facia.
And so things were, and remain so, how to enjoy hours of sleep or quiet minute, or how fail to
confess at last and dessert, or who, but me?

Interes칩me really the case, because in view of the history of the "gentleman" and that their
fidalgos comrades, was not to take it to laugh, and after thinking
for a little while Facia moaned and wrung her hands corpses, said:

-
"So this has to happen tonight?

- That was the threat - he replied,
almost inaudibly for it.

I noticed that the poor woman was in those moments under the double torture of events they declared,
and the fear of what might reach the wrong opinion I had formed of it; inspir치bame deep compassion
and to relieve a little of both torments I spoke with:

- First, from words to action there is always some distance, and more if the facts are the magnitude
of it that scares you, so that threats come tonight these bandits to rob my uncle, he met ...
or not be met, and well weighed and measured However, it may be preferable to come, particularly
for you, by that which "Dead dog, no more anger." Second, with the confession that you made
me, and I wish I would have thought I have one the first time I met her husband at the source!
if not come here tonight to pay off all your debts into a single game, I have everything I need
to know to force, by the fact that it brings, to abandon this region callandito mouth and good
walking where no one will see, and leave you in peace santa every day of your life. So I must
not whine or fret, as you groan and anxiety. Let, then, all at my expense, obey me as I have,
starting with arranged the headdress and clothing, after a little brighter for the dark colored
clouds of face; now should return to their regular chores that used to Remango; attend my uncle
as always, and take good care of Tona no doubt start with an apology that in these and other storm
days, you were deceiving his candor. So now is you are absolved of all sin as far as I'm concerned,
and encouragement, and to fulfill the penance the just impose.

This gave two slaps on the back, I got that desperate anguish before cut them into copious
tears and calm, sat up at last with some panache, tried, and not
consented to it, kiss my hands, and after promising that he would
use all breaths to the left of yours and that I had borrowed, to obey
my commands, addressed at the door.

But I do not know why he suddenly saw the light of the room, which was launched, with that
drag force always a time did, to read the weather in sky, one of the paneled door utility.
There was a moment space devouring eyes. I approached me the other paneled, and then she cried:

-
Oh, Don Marcelo! ... If the signals do not lie, how lucky it was! ... Miri miri those mists that
down by ayi ... and Ayi, and toas parties; miri cielu encenizau esi and escuru; miri aqueyas above
of aya black specks, which are spent face Boutros here! ... Pos so unu and otru and EYU in juntu
too, and that cold sienti now I notice that, too is snow pure snow is cooked through and fall pa
hour to hour. If the Lord and my Father in heaven that was so misericordiosu
tampocu the barruntus fail this time!

...

And with that he left the observatory without waiting for my answer, and almost beating out of
cabinet palms and with a grace unknown in a long time she did.

I stayed why deny? vowing not fail because the intimations, then pondered
a while about the events that could occur that night, and the outline
of a plan head, I left my room and went to my uncle.

XXVI

At that moment came Neluco.

I had not seen the patient more than a minute after jump out of bed,
nothing had answered my questions because he dozed, and the low light
then cleared a little the darkness of the bedroom, I had hit anything
either in appearance, but look again and better light, and I found
something very different.

Was much more anxious than in the evening, more bluish color, the glassy-eyed, and, However,
very troubled by coughing and restless in bed. Neluco looked, that he was pressing, and read
in his face grim confirmation of my diagnosis. Suddenly, he said, his voice soft words and syllables
almost not reach more than their breath:

- Today I did not like pinch, guys.

We looked at the doctor and me, and said this:

- Why did you say?

- Because I feel worse than the worst day I have seen.

- Apprehensions of you, - said I, say he is encouraged.

- That has
to be soon - replied the patient.

Neluco, meanwhile, continue to press, sometimes in a doll, now on the other, pulled the ear
to his chest above the heart, and he discovered and felt his legs below the knee caused him Several
questions later, and finally, it was a long time leaning against the bed and looking intently, his
head something fall, as if not knowing what to say or what was flowing in view of the phenomena
he observed. I was in front of Neluco, leaning against the bed as well; and the bedroom door, arms
crossed and feet, and two statues of Melancholy and curiosity, Facia
and daughter waiting for orders.

The first was from my uncle to ask "Another pillow," and that they spent three of which served
as support for his back and head.

As the two women met the mandate and Mullian and arranging the resulting
heap for less discomfort for the patient left the bedroom and I Neluco
behind him, a sign that I did.

- This is for the post - I said, so
they would not hear the patient.

- So serious is it you? - Ask.

-
Very serious - he replied -.

Matter of hours or so. So if you point the slightest desire to confess, he was not bound by any
regard, and if not points ... you seek apunt치rsele. Do not I own anything new, because everything
would be useless, even mortification a blister beetle. The swelling of the legs, as you have
seen, has taken tonight a big increase ... Natural own and sudden advancement has given the
disease, perhaps by the rapid decline that has occurred in the temperature this morning ... because
they do not know if there you noticed that it is cold since dawn, cutting hair.

It was cold in my imagination a sudden scrambling of ideas, and forgetting the sick, I remembered
more than the attempt by the three outlaws ready for that night, and so I asked the same avidity
Neluco he could do Facia in their "best days" of ghosts and sorrow:

- Do you think it will snow?

- And the sign - I said Neluco -.

All the symptoms are of the heaviest snowfall and durable that hang around here.

- What do you too - insisted - that begins today?

- As already beginning when I came - I said -. See you!

And led me to the door of the laundry, from whose paneled we pass, carried by the icy breeze blowing
outside, some flakes were identical to those I had seen start another
novel.

However, the sky was not so "encenizado" or dark as ever. So I warned the doctor, and he replied:

-
But everything will come, and soon, no doubt you. For the same reason - he said - must be
very shelter care of these rooms. Do not miss it here on the hearth burned so as to keep unchanged
the temperature now is in the sick room. No precaution is to heal, or even improve it, of
course, but we must put on our part, for the sake of it, everything is possible ... Another thing:
given what is happening and, particularly, of what might happen in here that you need more people,
for reasons On another occasion gave similar, and I tell Mari Pepa to come immediately with
his daughter ... You may also say something to Don Sabas, to make it even prevented.

With little more than this and I did some warnings regarding the patient after passing another
little while at his side, he went and I remained Neluco I plunged into the most devilish thoughts.
Satan himself, as a discourse to a conflict to the house, so I had not spun well as it was the one I
feared for the night, if baratijero threats were made, or did not come to stop and fix all
the deus ex machina of the snow, in the dose that Neluco I had predicted. Because otherwise,
"Virgin my heavenly Mother!" As have said in similar cases the gray woman. Don Celso, dying
perhaps those hours, or perhaps already dead, Lita and her mother at his side, assisting him
or praying for him in Facia reproduced paroxysms of distress, three bandits raiding the house,
and I, Chisco and Salces Pito, a clean shot with them, ending with the shock of killing my uncle,
if still alive, and setting about to die of grief for women, two of which, at least, was I have
to defend any risk as I remain a breath of life, a cartridge burn or a grill to wield. I recently
heard by the confession of Facia, I had imagined this picture much easier. Chisco, Salces Pete
and I, armed to the teeth and well perceive, and not breathing lurking in the shadows of the
gate, one of us opening the door as agreed precautions were left outside to hear the whistle of
baratijero, and then the three, as the robbers were entering ... Point-blank fire on them! Neither
first rung of the ladder had to profane with his foot the infamous. Lest it be overwhelmed my
uncle in the crash, would have fooled me before with a lie either: I would have said, for example, who
had seen the night before the wolf around the house on that side, and thought to kill him in the
wee hours of the immediate if returned. Chisco galls and Pito Salces me were well known, and
there was no warning what most people do not give room to the preacher. We bast치bamos the three
for that company for the time: the rest, ie collecting the spoils of battle, the charred bodies and
jigote facts, and justice would duly notified. And this will reduce everything. But with the
new look of things, ignored by the bandits, with a house full of women, and death, with their train
of tears and ceremonies and accessories pathetic rule over them, what shocks and what scandals
and desecration and sacrilege which would not produce a battle in the astragalus, a shot dry, their
respective oaths and screams and bloodied bodies and throbbing! Finally, if not managed the conflict
of snow, had to make me and have the rope Tarumba and gray woman resigned to his recent troubles.
For one thing, and this calmed me something concerns, there were many hours ahead, it would be
what was taking courses and how carried the suggested time, and what was up in the morning
the aggravation of my uncle. I was well supplied with arms and ammunition; Chisco too, and
me living at home, and to Chorcos, and take care to tell me in time for him to stay to ensure
the pretext the serious condition of Mr. Celso. No longer fancy that, instead of waiting for
the robbers in the doorway of the house, they could put together an ambush in the immediate
rocks it and shoot at close range as the door is placed along the three. But this plan was
less "Conclusive" than the other, and was exposed to bankruptcy that they could get out faces of
the assailants, much as we attend to justice, by all divine and human laws. Still yet will weigh
and would measure both plans if the case came in due time, and opt for the better.

This and more I pondered mechanically by tacking inside the house after have fired the doctor. Dando,
suddenly, well, the point then, I decided to see how he was my uncle
of his mortal anguish.

But I went in his room without a trace before one of the glass in the door into the sunshine through
the dining room. The continued darkening sky and the sparkling snow thickens. I liked the
symptom. My uncle, though between continuous feigned coughing, seemed calmer, and slept. Facia,
sitting away from him and attentive to whatever might happen, after I had I referred to sick
tiptoed to the bed, his eyes told me:

- Well it going, eh?

To which I responded with another look and a gesture

- From the best.

But God knows that neither the question nor the answer referred to the condition of the patient,
but the temporal aspect.

They spent two hours with no inside or outside the house occurred novelty worthy of being noticed,
and came, but without the usual noise, Lita and her mother and even the Don Pedro Nolasco.
The ups and downs, relatively happy, in a dark drama that unfolded, and walk around in those
aged area, much the spirit lifted me. Came three characters deeply impressed by the news that
had given them Neluco. The giant Greeting all, I shook hands in silence, with two tremendous
shock that soon I dismantle the arm at the shoulder, his granddaughter and his daughter, his
eyes misted over, I asked, loosened as they began to shelters, and in a low voice a little shaky,
news drawer on the current state of my uncle. Tell him, not as bad as they expected them and
this encouraged them to come very quietly to the door of the bedroom. Since there were watching
the battle that did not stop within the ruins of Don Celso, between the dream you drowsy and coughing
he insisted, until it rolled over in bed in one of those clashes, which left half suffocated,
mouth and eyes wide open and collecting air breathing, even with their hands. Then he hid quickly,
almost jumping in the Hall, and did both to me, not lost sight of the grief and sympathy painted on
the face. To all this, Don Pedro Nolasco, standing, rigid, motionless and silent, in the same
place that had been planted at the door. Access soon passed, and turned fall ill in the morass
of before ... But what the hell I saw that I was captivated Lituca more attention at that time
that the shock of his grandfather and the plight of my uncle? What was in it again and strange
to me? Well, quite simply, tears their eyes and pained expression on his boyish face, and I wondered
as I left my doubts: "But when this girl is cuter? "When he laughs and gurgles as the birds
the mountain, without sorrow or care, or feel, as now, in the absence of pain themselves, compassion
that will inspire others? "And not knowing which of these two extremes to choose, I remained
with the two, because it's true that laughing or crying, I was really cute creature.

Fearing that too much impressed with frequent contemplation of that distressing picture human
misery, so new to her, advised her to refrain from entering the room the patient.