 That Provincial
  mules had also requested to come to these peoples, which would
  only have hope for peace, having maintained, and tested very well
  in Rome that he just thought able to bear the brunt of this province,
  being so troubled. And then finally ran a rumor that having
  returned Yapeyú browsers, which downstream vigia movements
  of the Spanish, had said, without sure, that that his pursuer had
  been taken to Lima, Nande moangeio ago Yape ogucrhaima Lima.
  But some are expected notice it.
  
  43.

  He ended the month of July, when a post Yapeyú flying or running,
  warned that the jump of Uruguay 20 Spanish boats they saw: that
  the scouts are cruzeños had met with Spanish explorers, and they
  had heard say, by command of the army generals approached:
  that four monks, the family of the Seraphic San Francisco father,
  had come to Yapeyú at festivals San Ignacio great Father, to move
  things with activity of transmigration, and having reached the sheriff's
  Lt. San Nicolas, had brought letters from the Captain General
  D. Nicolas Ñenguirú, mayor of Conception, who asked armed people
  or military supplies, it was determined that after the Feast of
  the Assumption of Our Lady, splitting the troops in each
  town. Meanwhile, three e-fame consecutive comforted the sorrowful,
  because he said that in the Yapeyú fields had reached a squadron
  of Spanish, to a small fee, called Jesus Maria, which is located
  near the jumps of Uruguay: but having sent the Indian to stop
  higher payment, and returned to their lands, and having claimed
  that their compatriots had no luck in move, and that neither the
  other people had to allow transmigration, offended the freedom
  of the Indian who resisted, having tied, took him and his men
  to rest of the army. This rumor spread by neighbors fazendeiros
  and excited to take up arms, and having called and Charruas
  summoned troops, and Guano Minuanes Gentiles who were wandering
  these fields more untimely as night, rushed to all the Spanish
  troops, to some stripped (he said they were 50), others
  forced to run, took a whole herd of horses, and released to the
  prisoners. These things happened in Uruguay.
  
  Phaco in the river, the explorers left their already Luisistas
  destroyed fortress, and approaching to that of the Portuguese,
  three guards took away the horses that grazed together at the same
  strength, and when they had pulled in vain shot from the castle,
the enemy took a troop of 14 horses.

  
  
  44. Europe warned of Lima, the confessor of the King expired at
  the end of the stimulus of his conscience, had totum declared
  the monarch in the state of affairs of Indians, who had shocked
  his Majesty, and then the point coupling the Council had ordered
the Proceres, and Universities had also called to board, so that Charms
and examine if the Indians, and his unarmed proprio motu, on the one
preaching it had secured, and surrendered their land to protect them,
and if they so freely subjects, could be lawfully deprived of their
lands, and other points.

  Still do not know the failure of directors, but is expected
  to cause justice require judges to give a just sentence.

45.
  Meanwhile, the villages situated to the other side of Uruguay,
  with those of San Nicolas that are of this, gathered together
  rushed 11 games against the Spanish that were approaching: namely,
  the conceptions, Nicole, the Thomists, and finally the Cross,
  the Apostles, the San Carlos and San Jose, San Xavier, and
  also the San Borja, but, having changed his mind, he rushed
  Yapeyú join. Besides this, those of the Martyrs, which Little has
  now, believing the priest, had been terminated go, stay behind,
  and they said, but falsely, because canoes went after the
  Uruguay River.
 