 If you get like ... if you obfuscate,
may see things blacker than they are. In these severe cases everyone should behave as she is,
and you are a decent and thoughtful gentleman. "

- By your way of speaking - without relent Augustine said - I come to understand that you also
you know ... and this is the time when neither you nor Bringas You
told me a word, at least to put me on notice.

- About Us - replied
the lady with haughty dignity - not we always talk about what we are
not interested, or give advice to whom we do not ask.

What we wanted to take risks desconceptuar to a person in our family, we gave you when such
a death blow and when we had no security of fact, nor could we give evidence? ... Understand, son,
this is serious ... And say one thing: when you set it to be your wife "We inquired of us on
this delicate point, as seemed natural? Not so. Beyond you fix it alone, and when we realize
it and had it very well cooked and eaten.

In saying this and what followed, anyone, who carefully observed Rosalia,
could have caught in it, along with the desire to convince his cousin,
no less alive to demonstrate their beauty, enhanced on this occasion
for the care of clothing and dressings and ornaments of great opportunity.

How he taught his white teeth, outlining how your neck, how stood to give his slender body swathed
momentary well, were details that you and I reader friend would have noticed, but not Caballero,
the situation of his mind.

"And do not think - said Rosalie with a sad countenance -, we have come to the soul not consulted
us a matter that could compromise your honor ... You have not had
in mind what you want, what we care about you.

"

- I see it - Augustine said with sudden start, and regardless of the
tenderness of premium -.

The first thing is to hear what she says.

- I think you're wasting your time if you go home, - said Rosalie going diligently to contain natural
one - boot. Not find it. I know you will not find ...

Knight looked at her as parallel.

"I have reason to know, and I say no more - he added with studied coolness of Bringas -. Go home
and do not move from there, that it Amparo going to see you and ask your forgiveness ... So at least
it has promised. This morning the poor thing's been here, and I swear that worse I have not spent
time in my life. Compassion was to see and hear. God, what tears, what sighs! I passed out on
the fourth of the work and had to bring her here. It was a Magdalene, an unhappy sorry ... What
hurts him most, son, is Having A deceived. You should not treat it bad, you must not ensañarte
with it because their pain is great ... believes that going to kill ... I told you're not a Otelo
and you do not give as strong. He has promised to go home and give
you rewarding loyal.

Knows that the poor can no longer be your wife, but the contempt yours the crazy ... It is
an unfortunate, that in the midst of yet retains some modesty ...».

Augustine took two turns on itself, a sign of horrible despair, as
is the intoxication.

He left without another word and went into his house. Arnaiz and were Mompous that night to play
pool, and during the game affected the Indian peace of mind. So it was more talkative than usual.

The
next day, Tuesday, a day of rain and gloom, Augustine spent the morning
walking around in his office.

Expected a visit of interest no doubt, but he received was to Rosalia very nice weekend, well renovated,
very fresh and fantastic as well as when he went to theater.

"You're not good - he said with affectionate candor -. I understand, because these things are
impressive, I think you serenarte and try to give everything to oblivion ... A man like you ...!
Yes, you will find women in their thousands ... and a thousand times
more beautiful, a thousand times more interesting ... So what? Have
you been? I presume not, because I sent word to his house and is not
there and nobody knows his whereabouts. Te I swear that's a shame
because ... Poor thing! If after all not bad background. Among these
unfortunate, there are excellent natural and even hints of dignity