 In the rusty key crude had settled her white hand. Wanted to open, then held, afraid to erase
the traces of his hand. But his arm is extended again, and the door groaned on its hinges. Her
trembling increased. There, in the chapel he saw before him, kneeling, head bowed, hands together,
turned toward the altar, covered with a dress the color of fire ...

Candle plant fell to his knees, breaking to mourn.

And amid their cries distinctly heard the voice would say, "Sorry ..."

The next day I called the judge. It was the first time was before
the judge from the day he, after triumphing over their arguments,
he had said he believed suicide.

The young man was extreme confusion, not knowing what they could want from him yet.

- I needed first and foremost - Ferpierre said - to acknowledge my error and tell you he was
right. It was providential that you insisted on the prosecution, in spite of the evidence, because
without the insistence of you without the confidence that saw him animated, I would probably Hand made
further investigations which have led me to discover the truth. No doubt this time you already
know what happened, but I wanted to personally confirm that your
friend has been murdered.

The Natzichet has confessed his crime, and Principe, was silent in
the hope to save her, has confirmed his confession.

Roberto candle plant remained silent and confused.

- Are you happy now?

The young man replied.

- Have you provided a service to justice. Without you, the murder would have gone unpunished, or worse,
an innocent man would have paid the fault of others. There was a guilty and instinct I noticed that
you do not deceive: the only difference is that the charges you against the Prince have proved
unfounded.

Ferpierre again paused a moment to give candle plant time to say something, and then as he continued
silent, he continued:

- Prince could not desire the death of the Countess when he came to
love with a passionate love and shy at once, compelling, a rebel like
him to abandon his revolutionary propaganda, to renounce their past,
their political faith, their accomplices.

And that was because I knew you estimated and obtained the affection
of the Countess, that affection before he disdained.

So reasons the human heart ... Then he saw his partner lost, not
only for the match but even for herself, because she loved him and
suffered at the thought that there was another, to be confident that
love is risen.

It was in search of the rival, to let him enforce it, and they had
she ended a stormy explanation to the crime.

Everything he confessed.

There was a pause of the judge, which opposed candle plant still silent.

-
Are you happy? - Asked the judge.

- Why do you ask?

And the two men stared.

- Should you be happy, I think, had avenged his friend's memory, confusing
the inmate and obtaining the triumph of truth and justice.

Both turned to look in silence.

- And you are not happy ?...-- candle
plant said finally.

In the judge's question had been a sort of incitement, almost a provocation to say entirely his
secret thoughts, as if their secret thought was the same judge.

- I have no passion to meet - he answered .-- One Love guides me: the love of justice ...

- If you have done justice ...

- Do you doubt?

- I do not doubt ... play

- Are you saying then that I should doubt? So why ... You have reported a crime: the crime is
proved. You have not been able to tell which of two possible perpetrators of the crime were truly
guilty, given that both were capable of committing a crime: the guilty are accused itself!
... Would you perhaps say that the confession alone is not enough?

I know! But That is when it is not proven. A fool can declare an offender, but can not give reasons
for its action, or explain your circumstances. But here Is not it explained everything? "The
declaration confirms the other not? ... Or do you deny faith to the test?

- Yes - broke candle plant, whose doubts had grown to express precisely Weird being strengthened
by the judge's questions .-- Yes, you deny faith, as you are also
the denied, because that statement is not disinterested, since he
had that look in your own freedom, because only a madman can not declare
an offender who has not committed, but who wants to sacrifice ...

-
So, you argue?

...

- I argue - added the young man quickly, as if to not take the time
to think about what he said, and was beat to talk to himself - argue
that this woman is sacrificed for love sectarian zeal, that the murderer
takes advantage of his sacrifice to ensure impunity.

I say the murderer is he who can not be other than him ...

Yes, candle plant had to say that. The silent voice of forgiveness,
that voice had never spoken.

What had been a dream, a hallucination.

The truth was otherwise: the beloved lay underground, his blood stains
had not been cleared yet, the requested blood revenge, and he should
get it.

- Why do not you said before?

Why hesitated at first?

- Why did not yet know, because I had not thought enough, because you do not believe in crime
and they identified all my strength to deny suicide.

- "So not only would have killed this man, but to let his infamy would condemn an innocent?

-
Are you surprised? Is not it natural that this man is full of joy?

- That idea is horrible! I understand what blind hate you, but I'm not blind. This Man is not as evil
as you believe: in life there are acts of courage, and his attitude in the presence the body
and in the early days of the prison has not been a joy.

- In the early days ... What about others?

Upon hearing that question, the judge thought for a moment before answering.

It was true.

When the nihilistic confessed, he had given immediate credit to his confession; but doubt was
beginning to assault him again. If the girl was sacrificed, what
value should agree to his confession and confirmation of it by Prince?

... However, he had again questioned one and another, separately and together, and both had
remained firm in their statements.

In the confrontation they had found some contradictions: while assuring Natzichet that at the
height of his explanation with the countess, hearing the voice of Prince troubled I called,
had fired the shot, afraid to show him and he had not been submitted another opportunity to get
rid of his rival, Prince said, however, have gone when he heard the
shooting from afar.

Again placed facing each other, had Natzichet corrected, stating
that he thought he heard her voice, but certainly in his excitement
he was mistaken.

Other small details Ferpierre had affirmed the suspicion that, as
in previous interrogation, in that the girl also somewhat took the
initiative of the explanation the drama, and urged the Prince to follow,
but, nevertheless, was determined to send to judges to the public
debate had just shed light on the mystery.

Before that, however, had wanted to call candle plant to see if he too doubted, to discuss
with him his new suspicion.

- In the early days were oppressed by the pain - he replied, after examining all mentally that again,
- but then saw that the prison made him suffer.

- Do you see? - Said candle plant .-- At first realized the error
of his crime, and later saw that their freedom was safe.

The media has been too easy!

So also thought Ferpierre.

One man, who suddenly happened several drives, which was not totally
incapable of doing good, but that was due more advances rapidly to
evil, had been, without doubt, next to confess, but the available
had changed his mind at any moment, and then yearns for freedom, had
no qualms about holding on to the raft.

- If he is so outrageous,
does it mean that the hero has a heart Natzichet?

- What prevents
you admit it?

Far from denying it, the judge had expressly recognized by the ardor of their faith, the tenacity
of her feelings, she was capable of heroism.

- But how to surprise?

His explanation of the crime was complete!

He had two reasons for commit: love and fanaticism.

- Does one and one should not advise that could save the man she loved and the fellow?

This was also true. If the Prince had died at the Countess, she was trying to save, much love for
humanity, for love of the game.

- Well, but what about the test?

- Ah! Test! We must find it yet!

- Well then, while we found that test, so why do you insist on his suspicion, as I return to
my first opinion.

- Why?

- Because! I come to believe that the Countess had been killed!

- After they admit the existence of the crime?

- And how do you support? You do not know how, under what circumstances has pleaded guilty Natzichet!
He confessed when I told her that the Prince had confessed!

I was lost and wanted save!

- And that does not show you in a lighthearted manner that he, only he is the murderer?

- But he has admitted nothing!

It was I who said that, as of desperation!

- And do not you see that telling the truth! - Argued candle plant .-- If I had known this
woman Zakunine was innocent, he would have laughed to hear you! I would not have believed it! Would
have discovered trick! How could he believe that his friend had ever confessed a sin committed by
him? If this woman believed what you said, this means that subconsciously you said the truth.
And he wanted to save him, because he has been really lost!

Ferpierre not answer.

I was astonished at not having done so obvious observation that among
many others.

And I felt full weight of the clearest observation, and saw further that if it was for the truth
he had been misled by a false path.

- Hypothesis or presumption as all the others! - Suddenly exclaimed,
eager to deny, Amid the confusion, the importance attached inside
the words of the young.

All we do is to move from one scenario to another, if the Countess has not been killed, has been
murdered, and if you have not been killed, death has come into their own hands! The crime
is the work of the nihilist, if not committed by Zakunine, if the nihilist is innocent, is
Zakunine the offender! The passion of you not a test!

Until you bring me a valid proof of their passionate statements, we want to be very severe with
defendants, we can not do otherwise than acquit them both, for lack of evidence!

And almost abruptly, he said he could retire.

When he was alone gave the order to not let anyone else. The gravity of his thoughts at that time
and the annoyance felt against himself, not allowed to deal with another matter.

The observation he had made candle plant was very just: How to deny
its value?

If so many questions had conceived and himself on the confession of Natzichet, why not admit it?
Was the most significant of all. So, then, the passion of the young serving of something, whereas
cold blood he was obliged to show it was no use, since the young man who see more clearly?

Certainly, without the artifice he had employed with the nihilistic, the Prince and she would
continued to deny, hide behind the likelihood of suicide. It was also clear that of the two,
the most careful of salvation had been common since the early days, Natzichet. In all interviews
had struggled visibly to push Prince to defense.

There were acknowledged to be his mistress and he was required to confirm this statement, eager
to prevent the discovery of the resurrection of his love for the Countess, resurrection could
be suspected that the cause of the crime were jealousy.

Then, believing Zakunine jealous and had pleaded guilty, had invented their own involvement
between the two actors the drama. Is the silence and sadness Zakunine could not be, was not, remorse
the culprit? Whatever it was, the Prince had shown during the first days perhaps in so much pain
force, indifferent to their fate.

All this made Ferpierre think they really had made a mistake when using your scheme against the young
man should have said rather that the Natzichet Prince pleaded guilty. And he should have said
when Zakunine was still under the weight of pain, then probably would
not have tolerated someone else suffer for it, and have confessed
the truth.

The truth! ... If this was the real truth, how do you know? Since I wanted Natzichet save the Prince,
would not have done, after it had actually confessed guilty, as he did when he heard the judge's
cunning story?

And then, accusing a and another, the confession would have been higher! Or who knows if the
confrontation would have been fruitful!

But the confrontations were useless. Determined to take advantage of the generosity of the
young Zakunine recognized her guilty, and since she insisted in his confession, how belie?

Ferpierre thought to recall the Natzichet and say: 'Do you believe you have saved? Far from
that, I lost you! Why did you confess?

Why I told him myself had confessed he had killed the Countess? Well, that's not true, he has not
confessed to anything! I have told a lie. But now I see I thought this lie is true, and yourself,
without meaning, or rather, wanting the opposite, I have tried it. If there been lying, you would
have laughed to hear it. And instead, you trembled for him, and has tried to save him, but
in vain ... "

But Ferpierre stopped abruptly, anticipating that she would not have gone unanswered: "I laughed
at the lie, because instead of laughing had to cause me grief. Believing that you I told the
truth, accusing Zakunine thought for saving me, and as he is innocent and I I'm the culprit,
I laughed, but trembled and told you the truth ... "

What answer that? And how to test it lying? ... What if I lied? If he was really guilty? If
their conduct was not of a hero saving, but a confessed offender?

What was the reason not to believe really guilty? Could have been so ably built and described with
so many colors a false outcome of the drama, which had known tell a heap of lies in a voice
so distraught, his face so sincere?

Then again Ferpierre measure likely to deepen the assumptions, to rebuild the task of all those days,
stopping and in one, and in another scenario, recognizing once again the intractable difficulties
of the case.

Should he resign positively to any further investigation?

Should we actually lose hoping to get irrefutable proof? And how long complete the vain and
file? "Rejecting the allegation, stating that the Countess had been killed, and that the accused
is Natzichet only by the fear of seeing sentenced the prince, although he was as innocent
as he, and For this reason, versions of one and the other had not agreed? ... Or back to the
hypotheses, and excluded the most unlikely, that both were guilty, that Natzichet had helped her
lover to execute the murder to the theft by phone, and treated after to save him, accusing?

Each of these conclusions repugnant to the magistrate, but it needed
to be decided by some, and thought to make one last attempt about
two Russians, when, despite had given orders, he heard knocking on
the door.

The usher, apologizing for the offense, gave a statement of the attorney general, two underlined
words in a corner of the envelope indicated that communication was urgent.

Ferpierre idly broke the envelope, because nothing seemed urgent if not leave a situation as ambiguous.
Inside were two roles: a telegram and a note from the attorney general. This he wrote:

"I transmit to you immediately at the office that just received from the Swiss Consul in Edinburgh.
Now we finally know precisely something about the mystery of Ouchy. "

And hand that shook anxiety, Ferpierre opened another sheet, which
read:

"Sister Anne lives in Stonehaven Brighton, County of Kincardine,
Scotland.

Already been agreed as necessary with the British judiciary to get a statement. "

And public curiosity had been aroused, the more anxious than ever, knowing that the instruction
was not closed yet as stated first, that the judge mistrusted confession
Alejandra Natzichet, and that everything was to be bound by new doubts
in the moment the mystery seemed to open.

The discussions raged, passionate and useless, among those who believed the sincerity of the
nihilists, those who saw in his conduct a new test Prince of guilt and with greater confidence
returning to the suicide, inquisitorial methods accusing the magistrate of an innocent confession
extracted.

But others recognized that justice was in the presence of one of those cases doubtful whose solution
must not despair until some unforeseen circumstance comes clarify them, and that most often
remain unresolved forever.
The news that had finally found Ana, took a curious anticipation
to the extent of fever. His statement, the last letter addressed to
him by the Countess, a few hours before his death, he would explain
everything.

It was not general, however, this trust, and the same
Ferpierre, after the first move of amazement and pleasure to receive
communication of the telegram, he feared not even get out of doubt.
If the dead had confessed that he would kill himself, if he sent his
sister last goodbye, this, on receiving the letter, to read that ad,
would not come due, or at least answer, or seek other news, you know
if Florence had put running their fatal purpose? And since all the
world's newspapers had talked the catastrophe, for the prosecution,
arrests and summary, was not for religious a duty of conscience to
send the letter to Justice? This all had received, therefore The letter
did not announce the suicide.

Nature was thus seen as uniquely worsened
the condition of the accused. If missing in the letter an explicit
reference to the desperate purpose of its author, had to seem less
likely than ever that an hour later, it had been killed, but at what
which of the two defendants should be liable for the crime? Could
one hope that Countess had charted the fear aroused in her by the
threatening attitude one or the other? Was not it more likely that
the letter was not explicit in any sense, and that while confirming
the anguish felt by the unfortunate, it announced it intended to die?
In this case, the ambiguity would survive.

A top story, given by
the British newspapers that announced the discovery of the whereabouts
Sister Ana Brighton, destroyed the judge's questions. The nun, said
those sheets was attack of severe paralysis, had lost the use of body
and speech.

A telegram from London to the Journal de Geneve said
the next day, the disease dating a month, and that the stroke, according
to the statement of the premium of Sister Anne his only relative,
had occurred when reading a dismal news.

And when a week later, he
Ferpierre with confirmation of these rumors the record formed by the
Scottish judge, was that once again he was wrong in their forecasts.
Sister Anne was not able to answer the Condesa or enlighten justice
because reading the letter from his former favorite pupil had fallen
as dead.

This letter, found by his side and attached to the report
along with others that did not matter, said:

"Sister Anne, you pray
for me. Pray you very much, with all the fervor of his good soul,
because I have need of much forgiveness.

"This is my last letter
you receive. If one day you know what I did, remember you name ever
since the first time I enjoyed his touch wanted me: remember you called
me his daughter and as such has loved me, for you will always be his
daughter indulgent.

"God reads in my heart. You mean I can not do
storm destroys me. Blessed you do not know the error! Why speak of
that which I fight? Think only this, that I have sinned, I want to
run away from other faults. I am Guests to a condition such that everything
is my fault and error