 (P.
13). As there are here including the U.S. Catholic, the Bureau of Health must remember that such
citizens with non-Catholics who live the Philippines do not enjoy antipestífera protection
of San Roque.

Superstition and crime

In his remarkable study of criminal anthropology in the Philippines, says Dr. Sixto de Los Angeles
(p. 119): "The easy credulity fostered by the overcultivation of religious fanaticism, has constituted
from the beginning until the present one of the flaws, unfortunately quite still widespread
among the natives of the country * * *. Lover of their traditions and habits inherited and lack
of sufficient opportunities to acquire knowledge, the Filipino populace must hold, as is logical
and natural, their beliefs, which, not requiring any effort for comprehension, are worsening
and are rooted in a spontaneous way in his mind. As evidenced by our judicial annals, superstition
holds a significant category between the factors of crime in the country. "Superstitions referred
to by Dr. LA not just those of the old paganism of Filipino missionaries after more than three
centuries, have failed to completely destroy. Superstitions referred in this conference are
those brought by those missionaries who have been easily to intrude on the Philippines, naturally
willing credulity, by effective propaganda and generously spread on the ninth and other booklets
called of devotion.

As to the arrival of American education in the Philippines was always and exclusively religious,
and directed by Roman priests, the persistence of ancient superstitions are a demonstration
of the failure of religious education. Missionaries would have an excuse blame the rude filipino
invincible, we could admit courtesy and to avoid discussions. But the trouble is not that they could
not remove some of the supposed hard head Indian, but the tremendous
wealth of superstitions that for more than three centuries, these
missionaries have the same penetrating head injury so severe in their
minds and morals.

Unwillingness

The sinner unwillingness to restrain their evil deeds said to Jesus, washing hands in divine intervention
and testifying to the lack of sense of responsibility, "Is possible, sweetest Saviour of souls,
making so many every day, only to loss mine you have to prove insensitive?

"(p. 13.) This is part of a compound sentence none other than the Pope Gregory VII in its Practice
Devoted to the Passion of Christ (Manila, 1905).

It is also said to the Virgin: "Cleanse, Virgin Immaculate, my heart from all sin, and let down me everything
that displeases your eyes purest. Purge my soul of love and affected areas. "(pp. 10-11; Franciscan
Crown - the Virgin Mary. Manila, 1902.)

By the intercession of San Francisco the devotee asks God: "I hold in all my disordered passions,
powers and senses, "so that" I can reduce my thoughts, my words to measure and direct my work
to the greatest perfection, "and"

Thou wouldst soften the hardness of my heart. " (Pp. 18, 20 and 21 of the novena to St. Francis
of Assisi. Manila, 1899.)

Afraid of the machinations of Satan, devoted to St. Philomena asks (p. 23, Nov.) "You reach the
Lord who break more and more the forces of my enemies, the demons, and to save me despite myself.
"

Invoke the aid of Santa Filomena saying (p. 25, Nov.): "Make me chaste
is also, In my state, and my mouth utters not any words that according
to St. Paul, should not be named among the faithful.

"

A Santa Ana, mother of Mary, tells his devotee: "Interesaos therefore Santa mine, so I grant
patience in my adversity, tolerance injuries, and around a tranquil mood * * * (IX, pg. 1, Manila,
1893). It is also runs the following plea, "Empeñaos therefore Santa mine, with your sacred grandson
Jesus to be removed from our hearts all disaffected and ill will for God's sake forgive all
injuries * * *. "

It is possible to cultivate a sense of dignity or respect for himself when spread doctrines such
as those resulting from the following examples, the ninth of Santa Rosa de Lima:

"Taken from his humility, was a maid stepped lips," (p. 10). "I loved most the scorn than worldly honors
* * *. "(p. 102), and" wanted to so effectively the others were the vilest thing in the world,
who claimed he deserved to be in hell and that was his own place
for their sins.

If anyone showed not believe it and that was acquit, Nobody knows
me, he added, I only know what I am "(p. 11)."

Hearing after the praise of virtue, it was felt as a faint "(p. 11).

In a prayer to Santa Filomena (Ninth, pg. 16) is said to Santa, asking for their protection: "My
sins I have become a little lower than the angels, much lower than the beasts, as they do not
forget his master's crib, and so appreciate their food and I've forgotten God's house * * *.
"It is not only self-contempt which is of such considerations, but the lack of logic in attributing
to the gratitude of the animals returned to his master's crib, when it is clear that the motive that
drives them is simply hunger.

The wrath of God

Natural phenomena are regarded as manifestations of ignorance of divine wrath, which not come
to occur if someone, in humanity, not caused by his conduct. St. Thomas Aquinas, who is rightly
regarded as the scientific man of his time firmly believed that thunder,
lightning and storms were only manifestations punitive God's anger
against men.

"In his fear of God, was born in the Holy Doctor a kind of fear of
thunder and storms, with that as a reverent son, feared to see angry
Father's face, fearing those storms were not caused by his sins.

"(Military Angelica, Manila, 1907, pg. 21.)

Fear Blind Thomas made him conceive a blind justice of the Divine
because of God guilt triggered a lightning storm and lavished naturally
hurt and annoyed a large number of people suffering because of the
sins of the Holy.

For the simple believer when the Holy wise thought and thought so, there is no reason to reject
explanation, much less suspecting it fair to punish sinners is not work of justice or even common
sense.

Lack of logic

The logical mind can not develop when it promotes and cultivates the absurd, mainly when you
have covered with the false veneer of religion, when based on superstition of a wholly childish
and simple.

In the life of San Vicente Ferrer, printed in the ninth, relate the following miracles and there
is no doubt that whoever believes in them, can not grow in any way
the functions of his intelligence.

"In Valencia, a servant of the Earl of Faure, who was born deaf and without a tongue, was so many
years and one day to worship the relic of San Vicente, cured of deafness, language was born
and spoke on "(p. 17).

"A woman gave birth to a piece of meat without human figure. Offered him to St. Vincent by say
a mass, and the Epistle and had the head, arms to the Gospel, to
embody legs and finally found a beautiful child.

The same thing happened to another lady of Toledo "(p. 34).

"In Lisbon, a lady lived run for being so ugly, it was the laughter of the saw. Went St. Vincent
and awoke one morning very beautiful and graceful, that was so devout San Vicente Lisbon ladies
that do not exceed those of Valencia "(p. 37).

"A merchant went to a show and in the meantime his wife committed
a vulnerability as was * * *.

Sorry was instructed to San Vicente and Santo came back to the path
where the husband with a horse, getting there to scare them by means
of a layer and scattered.

Then her husband lost his time to gather their horses, so when it came to home because his
wife had time out of your care, getting rid of the consequences lack thereof. "This refers
to the most natural immoral and grotesque, it leaves without reason or cause punished the innocent
husband and the Holy run with a mischievous layer only worthy of a rogue stream.

San Ramon is said that taking such an interest in the misfortunes
and sorrows of his devotees and is so extremely compassionate "who
have sweated their images by the distress of the devotees"

(p. 12). "A picture so obviously the Holy sweat while his devoted suffered, that the veil is
stained to be covered, and some soaked in sweat pañolitos wonderfully relieved pain head "(p. 21).

San
Roque has the power to prevent the spread of epidemics.

"Its protection is the preserve us from the plague and many other ailments, which have their
origin in corruption air that we had to preserve life, kills us "(p. 3).

The height of absurdity

Is it possible to invent and involve greater absurdities that mentioned here? No But not to
lengthen this conference presented only a small number of cases cited in abundance in these little
pamphlets distributed extensively in our people. What logic, we can reasonably expect from brain
nourished with such absurd nonsense fed so childish nature is not understood that men have been
told by a simple sense common?

"The mattress in San Vicente died kept under miracles, as lying in him on several occasions more
than 400 patients of different accidents, all managed health " (P. 32).

Once San Antonio de Padua was preaching at the beach, thought that "out of the water fish who heard
him preach and attentive. "No devotee questioned the output of fish nor interested in solving
problems in physics, physiology, linguistics and mainly logic of such an event, but it says the
novena to Santo (P. 20).

Unnecessarily prolong this conference if I mentioned all the absurdities
entered Novenas in which I have a large body which is a positive documentation
very useful for the history of the superstition that only deflowering
here.

With that said there is enough to explain the origin of immorality, the real cause of the predisposition
to addiction, the absence of a sense of responsibility, the natural explanation of the incomprehensibility
composed of a mixture of feelings that the missionaries have been attributed to filipino,
Indian, Spanish and Chinese, all influenced by the malicious spirit
that informs all that literature completely disruptive of reason.

She and non-secular education is responsible phenomenon.

I do not come formulating theories and hypotheses emit capricious. Before an audience like the one
I have the honor of speaking, I need to weigh the value of my words and my judgments. For this
reason I brought facts, repeating texts I have quoted the words, not secular literature Corridos
constituted by the anonymous whose harmful influence is well known, but the authentic texts
of novenas authorized by ecclesiastical censure for failing to contain anything contrary to
sound morality, as stated in the license to print.

Not for a moment I tried to mix religion in my criticism, nor is it
in my hands change the consequences that follow from the facts mentioned
in the ninth, which is the literature responsible for a state of childish
mentality, quite inadequate for moral intelligence, composed of elements,
crippling and not progress.

Morality is nothing more than the victory over himself whereby a man does what he must and not what
you want. In the immoral man there is no struggle between two tendencies, one toward evil
another to the right. There is only an instinctive tendency: no brakes rational object. What self-control
who has to curb his habit and utter dirty words and obscene uses the intervention of a saint?
Lack of will, devoid of the idea same control himself, how can triumph over himself? Plaything of
his passions, seemed that the only thing that could keep him was
the punishment in the afterlife, but that fear not worried, because
while he is threatened with eternal fire, is told how can avoid it,
not to do evil.

The immorality of the ninth

These contain a teaching ninth fatal to the society whose moral foundation
is in the development of individual conditions such as work, compliance
duty, respect for the law, fighting against their own instincts and
passions that requires prior of all the self-control.

Not only are not taught or even mentioned these social obligations, but also encourages all the
wrong ensuring criminal, a sinner, that will be forgiven, which may escape punishment, that evil
act and guilty that that is, without effort, as naturally and easily get what it wants and prevail
on earth, as in the afterlife.

On one hand it scares the individual with the genius of evil, always pushing for the road of vice
and shame: the other is putting blind trust inspired by an Angel
Guard that does not leave him night and day, he says, leads him, "their
intervention so useful that adjust what we were asking God when you
know that our requests are bring us some evil soul or body.

"

What justice can be conceived idea who remembers the spectacle he
witnessed the gentleman Cuzco in the cemetery?

Not only is presented to Mary and Joseph to intercede with all energy for the salvation of the
evil for no reason invoked their names, but neither are moved tested or even soften the cruelty
of Jesus Christ when sudden death sentence and eternal damnation
to the two unfortunate women of evil life.

They did not invoke Mary and Joseph, who only take pity on their customers and act with the
same bias of a chief nationalist or Democrat.

And what does the law does not allow polygamy and pursued when so many wives of Jesus afterlife
virgins waiting to surrender to her husband? What about Mary, wife of Father, his own son, Joseph,
and Santo Domingo?

Mr. Ignacio Villamor concerns in a report to the Committee on Infant Mortality, written when was
Attorney General, several cases of killings of persons considered to be haunted as those killed
by the fans.

The Traiguerra boy who rushed to an ugly old woman by assuming the devil himself, after hearing
a sermon of St. Vincent, is quite the same character as those possessed of asuang referred
by Mr. Villamor.

What about sponsorship of San Isidro, cited by farmers? He gave an example of neglect of duty as a
farmer, because instead of plowing the earth doing the work by paying his master, he spent the
day praying. By a miracle, an angel took the plow and driving the oxen while the saint was praying
and did not work. And in the shadow of our sleeves, trusting in San Isidro, rural people sleep
waiting for the angels to do their job! How to preach it to "eat their bread by the sweat of
your face," when the work that sweat means you do not need?

Unconnected to the Bureau of Education of the Philippine government
have proceeded in the how I have done, not to defend the secular schools
of an unjust accusation and unjustifiable, not to attack people or
religious or political ideals, but to help remove one of the bases,
one of the strongest causes of criminality, corruption, training of
individuals useless and harmful to society: superstition!

And, gentlemen, is not only a superstition worthy of laughter, in any way. It is a superstition
ridiculous, yes, absurd, but tragic, dangerous, because it offers the wicked, the criminal
the ignorant, the means to succeed in life, get away, to get what they want giving them the means
to avoid punishment, on the ground circumventing justice men, and getting God's forgiveness
of eternal damnation, by the simple means of invoking the name of a saint, or a Latin word,
like a sesame, devotee crosses the gates of heaven.

Lamentable failure of the Bishop of Cebu

The prelate accused in the aforementioned manner to public schools, has made a mistake regrettable. For
my part I can assure you that his accusations aroused my curiosity
investigate the causes of immorality and perversion of morals that
the prelate, and we with it, we all regret.

According to those who have studied the mentality of most of our
people, it is evident that superstition is the enemy we to fight,
she is the moral cause of the errors we observe.

Both priests regular and the secular clergy confess that the mass of people is still in bondage superstition
inherited from the ancestors, superstition could be called genuinely Filipino, which comes from the
ancient beliefs in nunu, the asuang and anito and all the spirits of ancient idolatry, before
the introduction of Catholicism by missionaries Spanish.

The failure of the missionaries

According to own admission, these missionaries, after three centuries of preaching, have failed
remove these superstitions embedded in the consciousness of people.

We must accept your statement as an honest witness to the failure of its religious mission.
I'm not interested or argue the point religious views, but the importance of superstition in
society, their influence harmful to the evolution of morality. What is undoubtedly a consequence
of the stories contained in this literature is the only reading of the people is the promotion
of ignorance, spread so effectively in all superstitions above them
and increasing the flow of errors that unfortunately governs mentality
of the masses.

It is not just the so-called Indians are also accused of the superstitions children of Spanish-blooded
or mixed with Indian and Chinese mestizos. All these, we, Filipinos, are included among individuals
infected with leprosy of superstition, encouraged by the absurd miracle
mongering of the novenas, and can not be said to be an evil race of
the Philippines, but the inhabitants of the Philippines in general.

For education to be useful, must be in the individual sense of responsibility through automatic
free exercise of reason. The line of duty will be your goal; to achieve this purpose it is essential
to develop in man's will through which fight against the bestial instincts against sentimental
impulses, against all which is in opposition to the dictates of reason.

Logical

mentality to know what to do in order to chart a fair follow: Will, in order to overcome the dictates
of our reason to the impulses of our desires. This is the subject of secular education, education
in schools without God, here as government schools at the College of Blessed Imelda, led by PP. Dominicans,
under the rule of Japanese ideas translated into mandatory laws, located in Taihoku, capital
of Formosa.

The reading of the so-called miracles of the nature of which I have quoted, makes the impossible
seems possible, thanks to mysterious influences readily available, not work but simply by unworthy
means, demeaning and condemned by the moral, such as humiliation, the praise, propitiation. Do
not ask or expect a benefit through a positive good we do, for the fulfillment of a duty of which is
an asset that is a right; procedures are used for, to win the goodwill of a saint into believing
that he wants, he adores, admires it, trying to enhance his vanity and his mediation God's will to win,
not a benefit provided directly to that request, but consideration
of the merits of mediator.

Can not imagine anything more immoral, more primitive, more despicable. The heavenly court
is a court more corrupt than those of the autocrats that history has condemned, the court of
the Khans, the Sultans, the Byzantine emperors, Mongols, Persians, Tartars, all the barbarians
who have abused humanity and who have personified injustice and justified the revolution and
bloodshed.

A society whose members expect any favoritism, ignores the emulation, when individual is a means
as simple as that offered in the ninth to get what you want, following
the law of least effort, not used to exercise any noble activity and
can not therefore improve their powers or even use, an individual
expected to achieve the absurd, the improbable, can not know the existence
of immutable laws that govern the universe, an individual who expects
to get what he wants through valimiento a celestial pattern, nor can
conceive of a God of justice, nor can in no way be a useful member
of society.

Please, propitiation, exception, protection, grace, preference, predilection,
fight against what should be God, against the ideal of civilization
against the supreme aspiration of Humanity: Justice.

Fatal results

Those who believe in the miracle-absurd, protective of Fools, an accomplice of the lazy, of the
players, the murderers, thieves, of all that through them achieve what they want, these are
criminals who fill our prisons and die on the gallows; those who, armed with his anting-anting,
their talisman, the rosary, scapular bones Santos or shark teeth, defy the police, commit outrages
and disrupt the order, relying they succeed by protecting your pintakasi heaven. That is the
product not of the schools without God, but God out of school, impossible and paradoxical,
whose power is manifested Procedural and capricious exercise of sleight of hand. These individuals
are in Indeed, the expected product of superstition preached, distributed, offered for grass
to ignorance of the people who did not fear God or the devil, and he knows that punishment Hell
not only reaches those who wraps a string around his neck and not
anchored to a pintakasi to ensure their eternal salvation, because
God does not allow a devotee Order your favorites!

What kind of citizen in society can be an individual who makes fun of using punishment the
easy way a lawyer in heaven? How can scare the pains of hell when know that through a forceful
advocate, God is forced to forgive? And when a man knows the way to avoid divine justice, it is
clear that to escape justice human touch upon to the mercy of the judge, to avoid compliance
with the law, Failure to comply with any duty and live only to enjoy rights, resort to use with human
authorities the same procedures of propitiation, praise, prevarication,
humiliation and deception that dominated the same God and defeated
the power of the devil!

Never a superstitious man will succeed, especially if the type listed
above, come to be a useful citizen.

This is unfortunately a product of three education centuries * *
*!

Religious schools have already borne fruit, so have given the
secular