 In spite of this, still
living with the same comfort and equipment than before. Her work and cost him around. Borrowings
by mortgaging his brother trasconejada some farm sales and auctions, notes some usurers thrown
on the inheritance of a sick old uncle recognizing three times the amount received, jewelry that
his sister gave him unable to give her money exorbitant bills with the importer of cars and horses,
with the tailor, with the perfumer with Lhardy, with the custodian of the club, with everybody.
It seemed impossible that a man could live peacefully in such a state of traps and entanglements.
However, our gallant young man lived with the same admirable spirit and the same serenity of
gladness of heart, and others like him many of his friends and fellow members as we shall see,
although not as ruined as Perky.

- I prepared a surprise - said Clementina concluding in his hat and grooming hair in the mirror.

The
beautiful gummy sniffed the air like a dog that receives winds and
went to the lady.

- If it's nice, let's see.

- And if it is unpleasant
as well, groserazo.

Everything that comes from me should tell you the atmosphere.

- Agreed, agreed. Let's see - barely conceals his desire said.

- Well, get me one sleeve.

Castro was quick to obey the command.

Clementina, where it had sat in his hands with affected calm on the
couch and waving in the air then exclaimed:

- You'll never guess
what is in this sleeve?

- His eyes shone with joy and pride at the
same time.

The sparkled Castro longing. Her cheeks were stained and altered voice answered between doubting
and affirming:

- Fifteen thousand pesetas.

Joyful and triumphant expression of the lady's face was changed instantly into another cholera
and defiance.

- Remove!, Off there, pig! "- Exclaimed angrily giving a blow in the
face with the luxurious cuff -.

Do not think only of money .... You have no hint of delicacy.

- I thought! ...

There was also a change of decoration in the face of Castro. He became more sad that night.

-
In the twine, yes, and just tell you .... No, sir, here is not anything like that. Only there
is a tie Alfileritos me silly me!

I bought the pass, staying Marabini, as proof that I have you ever thought.

- And I thank you in the soul, pigeon - said the young man making
a supreme effort on itself to overcome the sudden gloom and resulting
him a forced smile and bitter -.

Why did you shoot that? ... Give me that .... Well known to have very bad idea made me.

Clementina refused to release the memory. The young man humbly insisted. There was, however, in their
prayers a tinge of coolness that belied for the pervasive spirit of women, the deaf disgust and deep
sorrow that the soul was.

- No, no, my poor Alfileritos neglecting you terribly ... (Known to you face!) ... go to the
box where I keep the memories of the dead.

Alzose the couch, under the veil of the hat. Pepe still insisted for being polite and reparation.
At last, when he was near the door he turned suddenly and took the
bottom of the sleeve a gorgeous purse, which was introduced, while
staring into her face.

The eyes of the young, after landing in the portfolio with eager expression of joy, collided
with those of his beloved.

Contempláronse few moments, she maliciously and triumphant expression, him with gratitude
and joy repressed.

- If you always have told me! If no other like my baby to know how to love! ... Come here let
me give thanks, rich mine, let me adore knees.

And dragged, overwhelmed by the enthusiasm towards the couch, forced her to sit back and dropped
to his knees, fervently kissing her gloved hands.

- Jesus, what madness! - Exclaimed the lady a bit confusing -. What a thing to make such ends!

- It's not about money, my baby, it's not about money, it's because
you have a way to make original things, because you have the grace
of God, because you are a Barbiana .... Take, take, retemonísima!

And he hugged his knees and kissed them with warm gestures. Not satisfied, bowed further and kissed
his feet, or rather, the morocco leather of his shoes.

- How low are you, Pepe! - She exclaimed, laughing.

- No matter what you call me anything you want.

I'm yours, yours till death! I love you more God. I love these little feet so rich and the kiss.
See? Let's see, that someone comes tell me that I should.

Clementina looked at him smiling.

It was not easy to find out if it had in reality or simply amused
with that worship, or rather that dog joy resounding feeling creeps
caressed and licked the feet of his master.

- Not only do I owe you
happiness, but also the honor.

Do not know what I have suffered since yesterday cursed by the debt
- he said in an agitated voice.

- Will you return to play, eh?

Will you return to play, lost? - She asked pulling his hair, primororosa deleting that line that started
so nicely.

- No ... particularly on my word .... I assure you

- Not on your word, not on your money, great junk .... I'm, I'm - he added a gesture of mime,
getting up and running to look at the time the clock on the mantelpiece -. Ugh how late! ...
Goodbye, little boy.

And he rushed to the door reaching out to her lover without looking. This could not kiss the tip
of the fingers. She ran to open, but it had seized the lock, for true that angry because his
weak resisting pulls.

- Bye, bye, until Saturday - said in a falsetto voice.

- Until last week.

- No, no, until Saturday.

He went downstairs with the same haste with which he had climbed, made another gesture imperceptible
Farewell to the keeper and hit the streets. Continued to walk to the Plaza del Ángel, and stood
there a cab and got into it.

It was after six. An hour ago they were the lights of the shops. Ocultóse his best in a corner
and let his gaze wander distracted without curiosity through the streets going through. His
face acquired the expression haughty, disdainful, which characterized, to which was now added
slight hint of disgust and concern. For its refined elegance, by his arrogant demeanor, and especially
that severe majesty of his face pilgrim, no Clementina hesitate to depute one of the highest
and most noble ladies of the court. However, if it was indeed, as contained in all the aristocratic
salons in all lists distinguished people that the newspapers published the day after any soiree,
horse racing, or any other party, in law be was far from its origin. Could not be more humble.
His father had been in an English, Irish mistress of a cooper who had come to Valencia in search
of work. His name was Rosa Coote. It was splendidly beautiful and would have been something more
to take care of the decoration or dressing himself. Misery, ordinarily lived that home illegal,
had been dirty and ragged. Rogue mercadal of Valencia and the beautiful English is understood at the
back of Cooper, temporary owner thanks for this. Salabert was younger, more handsome: the vice of
drunkenness is not he had dominated as that. Rose followed him to his housetop, abandoning
the first lover. A few months of living together, Salabert, who appeared from time to Cuba
as waiter in a steam, turn left. The English, who had already in her womb the fruit of that
temporary marriage, filmed some time without protection, without resources, through the streets
of the city, until he entered a relationship with a carpenter who picked Grao and reached to
make her his lawful wife. Clementina was raised as an intruder in
that new home.

His mother was a violent woman, irascible, with gusts of tenderness, that only kept for their
children legitimate. To her, by all signs, and she hated unjustly avenged the insult of his
father. What a terrible childhood of Clementina! If Madrid knew some details, quick overview if
they could offer in the eyes of some scenes of elegant society that proud and haughty woman that
happened, few would envy his life. What torture what refinement of cruelty! After four or five
years and was forced to be vigilant two other brothers keeper.

If this monitoring decaying one point, the punishment came immediately, but no punishment as you want,
hit passengers, lug-eared, no. The punishment was thought to cruelty, trying to hurt where more
hurt and which lasted more pain .... The neighbors had come more than once to the cries of
the wretched creature had rebuked the unnatural mother. It was not only a thunderous brawl
that the fierce Irish broken Valencian, was shipped to your taste against Wives the neighborhood,
and more bitterness then against the cause of that displeasure. At all times shouted he was
going to put it in the foundling. This was against the carpenter, who boasted be good and compassionate
man, who once intervened in the punishment to appease, but most of the time he left his wife "to
teach her daughter", as he said neighbors who reproached him. His educational ideas clashed
with his instincts pious and when they could overcome woe to the unfortunate girl!

That series of unprecedented cruelty finally ended with a larger one that brought the judicial
intervention.

The unnatural mother, not knowing how to torment his daughter, made some burns on the back with
a candle. A neighbor found out the fact incidentally, reported it to other neighbors, the ensuing
scandal was assembled in the neighborhood, gave part of the judge, was instructed cause, and
proved the offense, the English was sentenced to six months in prison and girls gathered in
a charitable institution.

A year later came to Valencia Salabert, if not like a potentate, with some estate. Enteráronle
of what happened. Went to see her daughter to school for poor girls. The out of there and
put it in other payment, by rare chance, where would visit. In the population, however, was praised
his trait of generosity. He knew it asserted in the conversation by offering to eyes of his
acquaintances as a living example of fatherly love and noticeable contrast against the wickedness
of his former mistress. Shortly afterwards he married in Madrid. It was his wife's daughter a
dealer in iron beds and mattresses metal Main Street. She was a young Feit and sickly enough,
but good, caring and fifty thousand francs of dowry. His name Carmen. After three or four years
of marriage, that, looking increasingly delicate health lost hope of having a family. Knowing
that her husband had an illegitimate daughter in a convent Valencia,
he suggested, not very often generously, bring it home and consider
it as daughter.

Salabert gladly accepted the proposition. Clementina was looking for, and from then entirely
changed the fate of this unfortunate girl.

He was fourteen years old and already a prodigy of beauty, blissful blend of English style
correct and delicate and rough beauty of a woman in Valencia. Reflexes kept her complexion
smooth, pearly Saxon race. In his dark blue eyes had the same depth and mystery in the black
eyes of Valencia. Underdeveloped even by virtue of its most cruel childhood, sedentary life,
then the convent, as climate change and lifestyle acquired in two or three years, tall and majestic
proportions that we see today. Moral parts left much to be desired. It was his temperament
irascible, opinionated, contemptuous and sullen. If you were born with these vices or were the result of
their barbarous tortures, his sad childhood, it is not easy to solve. In the convent, where
no one was mean, was not well liked by his teachers and classmates for his character suspicious,
the lack of affection that is felt in his heart. The troubles of her companions, not only
moved her, but awoke in his lips a cruel smile, the left stiff. Then I had, from time to time,
access of fury that had been feared and hated. On one occasion, a girl who had said some offensive
words threw her hands neck and was very close to suffocate. It was never possible after you
beg pardon, required by the superior. He preferred to be detained a month, to humble themselves.

The
first months he spent at his father were good test for Ms Carmen. Instead of a girl happy
and grateful for the huge favor that was, was faced front of a shrew, a being nasty without affection
and submission, extravagant and whimsical to a surprising degree, whose loud laughter flowed
not only when a servant fell or the groom got a kick of the horses. But not discouraged. With
unerring instinct of generous hearts, knew that if that land was
because love was not until then only had sown hatred.

Sweet affections reside in every human being, as in electricity every body: but to make them vibrate,
requires submission to a strong current of affection for some time. And this was what made Ms
Carmen with his stepdaughter. For six months was wrapped in a warm atmosphere of affection,
in a dense network of extremely delicate attentions, live testimony constant and affectionate
interest. Finally, Clementina, who began by show disdain and then indifferent to that affection,
you spent hours and hours locked in his room and only went to the rooms of his stepmother when
he called, he had no with this ever expanding living in absolute secrecy, succumbed suddenly,
he felt vibrate in your heart that something wonderful that binds to human creatures as all bodies
of the universe. Changed in a strange, violent, and all that came from his unique temperament.
Fell, when least expected, and knelt before Ms Carmen, by devoting so profound a respect,
a love so passionate, that the good lady was shocked and he could scarcely believe his sincerity.
In his soul had operated at the end disclosure of tenderness. Maternal heat of that kind lady,
her heart of ice had melted.

The divine essence of love penetrated where, until then, had only entered the essence of Satan.

It
was a miracle. Rather than spend his life in his room, he knew out of her stepmother whom he called
mom, with joy, with a fire, with a pronunciation so determined, as only observed in sincere
devotees to go to the Virgin. Devotion could also be called Clementina felt that the wife of his
father. Amazed that the world was one so sweet, so tender, not tired
of looking at it as if it had just come down from heaven. I wanted
to read the thoughts in his eyes, he wanted to anticipate his slightest
wishes, wanted anyone to serve more than she wanted to, finally, like
all love, the exclusive possession the object of his love. A very
slight sign of displeasure of Ms Carmen was enough to confuse and
plunged into the most bitter grief. That haughty creature, who had
come to be hateful to all, is humiliated with intense pleasure, his
stepmother. It was his humiliation of the mystic who bows out of a
need invincible spirit. When he felt the hand of lady stroking her
face, thinking of God feel the same. He hardly dared to touch his
fingers to his lips thin and transparent.

Only his stepmother had
changed so radically. With others, even with the same father, still
showed the same cold contempt, the same stubborn and arrogant character.
If ever seemed sweeter and treatable, it had to be attributable to
its will, but the express mandate of Ms Carmen. As this mandate ceased
or forgotten, returned to its original be malicious