 White or in color?
All this is force us to know before proceeding to the graduation of the fault of both and
the application of the penalty you may be in justice. -Say to V.
S., Mr Mayor, with loyalty as I know in this particular case, said
Gamboa hesitated and with burning ears of shame.

The girl is young, quite young, and that you will only have 18 years of age. It has not been married;
nor, to what I understand, you can calificár is her of ugly, rather of pretty, real girl, I would
say. It is poor, Yes, poor, poor thing, and color, but it will pass through white where you want to
not know their history... - well, perfectly, replied the pensive
Mayor.

That you learned of the case are known. So I like. We can already judge informed... Occurs only
a vacuum, call it doubts, namely: do you know the facts it sets out,
by himself or by third party reference? -Some I know myself, others,
say, by inference. -Let us.

First, tell you if you know who lives with the couple. -Now, I guess
that with a friend of hers. -None of assumptions, Mr don Cándido.

You know you?

Yes or no? -No, Lord, I do not know, I inferior. -That I like. In this
class of business openness must come first. The lawyer and the judge should
talk to them as it speaks to the Confessor, with the heart in the
hand.

And earlier, who lived the pardita? -With the grandmother. -Do your
parents live?

Do
you have relatives, friends, protectors in sum, someone to do it?

Being so pretty, as you say, well it is knowing all this, find out
in time. -Little has died the grandmother.

The mother (added tottering and more red than ever), the mother...
Really I don't know at this time if you live or if he dies.

In any case, anything you would be worth if I lived.

With regard to the father... She does not you have known... She is
the daughter of the Royal House cradle.

Is V. S.? -Good.

Did you hear the grandmother of person? -Yes, Sir, I met her, although
I never had intimate dealings with her.

It would be long referred and alien here dwell on details. I know, however, that for women of
color (Brown era) led exemplary lives, which practiced the virtue,
which is confessed and Zoological often, he bred to the granddaughter
in Holy fear of God, which was monitoring her closely, and above all,
that the non consenting holgorios, dalliances with mozuelos or processions
of window. -Then the girl in question is well bred, living honest
and he has not even what to say. -This is the truth; only that, as
of hybrid race, should not be much trust in his virtue.

It is mulatilla and you know that daughter of gata, mice kills, and
which do jump the goat, jump which mama. -Well said.

We confess that our proverbs contain great wisdom Fund.

We also confess that our mulatas, generally speaking, are fragile by nature and by the desire, ingénito
in human creatures, ascend or improving condition. And here are the
key to decrypt the why of their hobby to the whites and their esquivez
towards men of his own race.

Good to talk to the person who should understand me.

No one like you who, by his long residence in the country, already
it has aplatanado, will have had better opportunities of observing
the idiosyncrasies of our kind of free color.

But a general rule, a strong presumption, a theory, plausible and brilliant as it may seem,
on the nature or hobbies or esotras people, is not done, unreported
crime, not even quasi-judicial-crime, which is what they penan laws
and judged and punished the courts of justice.

«We sum.»

You appear before me, the Mayor, in complaint against the Valdés to who accuses you of the quasi
crime of seduction and distraction inferred to his eldest son from you, which is still under parental
authority. Thus, calls you launch a warrant of imprisonment against the seductive, and that, without hearing
her, is her punished, depriving them of their freedom. I agree. So far there is no apparent irregularity,
the complaint is well founded in law, and you will have excellent
to not consent that a pervert to his son, much more when he follows
a career as honorable and noble as the toga
