 As always happens in historical sites, several guidelines are offered to accompany
me, but I refused them all, wanting to enjoy themselves so much work of art.

Suddenly I heard an exclamation of surprise and turned his face, I came face to face with the
Father Montero, my former classmate, who had not seen in five years. Acted of Sacristan of the Cathedral
and carried a huge bunch of keys, it was time to close the temple to reopen it at three in
the afternoon. Seems useless to report the taste I got to see such a good friend of mine.
Convidóme to lunch and promised to teach him it then possessed a charm that council and which
are rarely exposed to the public.

Sounded three, when Father Montero and I started walking the hall councils, sacristies major
and minor, Claverie, the chapel of Our Lady of the Roses, the costume
and other dependencies.

Just to list the many beauties that I showed you fill a volume, and
when I thought I had finished my visit, I announced with some satisfaction:

-
We need to see the main thing: the treasure.

Before an oak door with iron rivets, which at first I thought the staircase would provide access
to Tower, a canon praying his office was waiting for us. With the introductions of the case,
Treasurer opened the heavy wooden door, and appeared another, modern, similar to a safe. Opened
in turn, and then a strong gate, which still prevented the passage. But neither the security
apparatus would suspect the wealth that was stored in that room. Stayed over an hour admiring
custody, chalices, lecterns, statues and all sorts of jewelry, which reports increased interest
scholars of the canon. Suddenly, I blurted a cry of surprise. There before my eyes, locked
inside a cabinet and landed within a pedestal of gold, a bird was identical to my visitor
that morning!

I was studded with emeralds, rubies, diamonds, in short, of the richest jewels that can imagine,
and wrought all with such art, which at first seemed to be alive.

I
understand your emotion, "said the canon. This jewel is reputed as
one of the most remarkable that is news