 

In short, all supposed to not assume that perfectly free will by leaving to go the girls on
a date which, implicitly, but clearly, he so handsome, so distinguished, so illustrious, so rich and
seductive, had given them to the Gardens and can not be understood or course in relations with
them not to miss the respect and social considerations.

With so comforting speeches Count hardly dominated his impatience,
went two nights at the Gardens, and also saw the ladies.

And then decided to use their wisdom and their activity to look.

"If you flee, if they hide - he said - is because I fear. The look for me. I will find them.
"

Justified and the work that discourse would be taken, which was running in Condesito summary we will
expose.

The Seville was unknown. They could be Malaga, as assumed that ignorant. Confusing to Seville
with Malaga is a crass error as a philanderer Andalusian that women should know as a hunter mistaking
a quail with a dove. It was also clear that she was married, among other reasons because, if both
single, would not go alone. The marriage was the brunette. In this no doubt. Known in older, and
in other evidence that together all reached the most complete certainty. Who was married the
brunette? Both were outsiders, new to Madrid, since no one knew. It was not probably had come
to Madrid to have fun, because then the husband, farmer, rancher, merchant or something, some people
in Andalusia and Seville itself, should have accompanied and he also amuse and curiosearía.
The husband should be a busy man. What occupation could have a husband in Madrid, but of a
government employment? The Count therefore decided that the husband was an employee. Calculated,
finally, by air had something mysterious the unknown, of some concern to note that he had believed
in them, that night they were in the Gardens had been without previous
permission of the husband, improvising that trip at a time when he
was missing from home, save loyalty to tell the prudent course for
to approve and legitimize the fact. If all this assumption was accurate,
the husband sometimes worked at night, home away from home. At night
he works in many offices; but none are as common as the long evenings
in the Interior or Finance