 The
object of the intellect is the essence of the thing, quidditas, as expressive of the scholastics; and
sensitive performances tell us nothing about the essence. We offer a look of things, and even
this is limited to the perception of the extension, for in that respect to other sensations, but
rather experience a subjective fact that instinct and reason do we attribute to external causes,
we can not perceive the same arrangement of objects.

[232.] This latter observation suggests to me one that can support the conjecture that, in rising
intelligence to some degree, is incompatible with the sensitive faculties. In feelings We note,
we would say even anything about that aspect or disposition of the external world if they had to base
the extension, what do you reduce the corporeal world if we assume unextended? Having thus shown
(Chap. II.) That the extension, but based on some feelings, no is direct and immediate object of sensation,
is the only thing in the sensitive faculties makes us feel something about the reality of
objects is not really sensible. Then if the character of intellectual perception is to know the
reality of the object, the more intelligence is raised, more distant find the feeling, being
able to get case that intellectual and sensory faculties are incompatible
in the same subject.

[233.] Will understand better the strength of the observation above, casting a glance at the scale
of beings, and noticing what happens, as they are more perfect.

The isolation of a being, indicates imperfection: the slightest idea that we form an object,
is when you conceive of absolute limits to its existence, without any internal activity, or external,
completely inert.

So we figured a stone has its existence with shape: it is what has been done, and nothing else:
it retains the form that you have given but did not involve any activities, to communicate with
other beings has no conscience what is, in all relationships is completely passive, receives, but
does not give or can give.

[234.] As things rise in the level of perfection ceases isolation:
with the passive properties, combining the active, such agents conceive
corporeal While not yet reached the status of living, and take an
active part in the production of phenomena emerging from the laboratory
of nature.

In these beings, to more than have, find what they can: their relationships with others are
many and varied: its existence not limited to his own circle, it expands, communicating in
some way to rest.

[235.] As you enter the order of organic beings, and we find ourselves with a more nature expansive:
life is a continuous expansion.

The living being, somehow extends to time they have ceased to exist, confining itself reproductive
germs, not itself only for itself but also for others in its smallness, is nothing more than an
imperceptible link in the great chain of nature, but this link vibrates, so to speak, and their
vibrations propagated to the farthest reaches.

[236.] When life rises to the feeling, spreads even more, the feelings, somehow locked in the
universe with the consciousness of what they experience, is put into new relationships with all that
work on it. The perception is immanent, that is, lies in the same subject, but combined with the
subjectivity of objectivity, by which the universe is to be reflected in a point. So just being
there in itself is somehow the other things, verifying the saying
of the scholastics, so full of deep meaning: "What we know is the
thing known."

In no certain order sensations: they are the more perfect The less subjective: the noblest,
are what put us in communication with objects strictly speaking, those which are not limited to the
experience of the objects that cause us, but knowledge of what they are.

[237.] There for the objectivity of the sensations a base that is the extension: and this, and is
not directly and immediately felt: the only thing that moves us as it were, to the outside, is not
proper sense. The extension, which teaches us something about the reality of beings, with
respect to certain provisions of them together, is rather the subject
of intelligence sensitive to a power, the sensation is over, and science
is born.

And science is not limited what appears to objects, but to what is in them, the understanding does
not stop in the subjective, passes into the objective, and when you can not reach reality, it
expands by regions of possibility.

[238.] In this look just throw on the scale of beings, is that perfection of these is proportional
to its expansion, that, as they are more perfect, leaving more of
the own field, and enter the outside.

Here is that perception, the highest, is less subjective: the smallest degree what the feeling
is limited to what is experienced by the subject percipient, the highest level, intelligence, dispenses
with the experienced and deals real, and its own object.

[239.] We should infer from the above that if we know the intimate nature of pure spirits, you may
find that the sensitive faculties, were completely incompatible with the elevation of his mind:
and that the analogies based on the nature of our perceptions, are useless, referring to a way
of understanding more perfect than ours.

Whatever, it must be acknowledged that the issue would be resolved in a very incomplete if we had limited
to one aspect of simplicity, and that considerations the nature of intelligence should make us
cautious not to assert as possible, perhaps we would not be, if we knew more about the nature
of things.

[240.] So far I have spoken referring to the inner possibility of things, what we will think of
reality? this is a matter of fact that can only be solved with data provided by experience,
and these data are missing: because we are not in immediate communication, or with separate souls,
nor with pure spirits.

[241.] If we find any reason to deny the soul all the sensitive faculties, as soon as it is separated
from the body, and equal to all the pure spirits could find, rather than the essence of things,
in consideration of the purpose for which these powers are used. The soul, while united to the body,
presides over an organization subject to the general laws of the corporeal universe. In exercising
its functions as convenient, it needs to be in constant communication with his own body and
the around him, taking sensible intuition of corporate relations, being advised by pain of any disorder
that occurs in your body, and guided by the sense of pleasure, as by an instinct that guided and
tempered by reason, I can tell helpful or necessary.

When the soul is not attached to the body, there is no reason to have any of these diseases
need to target not having them in their actions: and as this reason militaria with respect to all
pure spirits, you can guess the cause of the difference that should exist between the state
of our soul in this life, and spiritual beings not attached to any body.

[242.] This argument, taken from the end of things can not be regarded as a test; has no more
value than a guess, because not knowing how far the soul separated and pure spirits, they may
be in relationships with some bodies, also ignored if these conditions might necessarily be
so sensitive or useful for purposes which are outside our reach. Moreover, assuming that no
separate soul or pure spirits, no they had to do with any body, we
could not say with complete security sensitive conditions that they
were useless, on the contrary, as we can achieve, it seems to strip
the soul of his imagination and feelings, is to take two beautiful
powers that help them over their understanding, is a powerful mobile
many of their actions.

We have some difficulty to form the idea of ??pain or pleasure, but by mediating conditions of
feeling. In the will of the purely intellectual, wanting to conceive or not to want: most simple
acts of relationship, we do not mean pleasant or unpleasant affection. Many times we want a thing
happens, and yet experience great distress in it: and conversely, happens very often that
we feel a pleasure in what you do not want.

After wanting and not wanting their own, and while in this life, do not involve pleasure or
displeasure, are independent of these conditions, and may be in opposition with them.

[243.] It may be noted that this discrepancy comes from the sensitive powers are in disagreement
with the intellectuals, that, albeit very true, is not opposed to it we are saying. Whenever it
is clear that the will of the intellectual order, when in opposition to the sensitive conditions,
it involves pleasure or displeasure destroyed; triumphs is true, in virtue of their free will,
but their triumph is like that of an owner who must to seek compliance with stringent requirements,
experience disgust, at the same time manages the execution of their mandates. Who knows then,
if you will, even after this life, walk accompanied by conditions similar to those which now
feels, rather than purified of the crude to mix them, the body that adds to the soul? There
seems to be no contradiction inherent in it, and if the philosophical
issues could be resolved by feeling, I would guess that this beautiful
set of faculties we call heart does not fall into the pit, but flies
with the immortal soul to the regions.

[244.] Concerning to the imagination, that mysterious power, than to represent over the real world
has an inexhaustible fertility create new ones, deploying in the eyes rich and resplendent soul
scenarios, does not appear that a soul could be separated smirch the body. The ineffable harmonies
that we assume in nature, why could not be perceived in a sensitive manner? Beware of venturing
on arcane propositions unknown to us, but also beware of the draw
boundaries to the Almighty, calling impossible that the sight of a
sound philosophy, is in the order of possibility.

CHAPTER XXXII.

POSSIBILITY OF PENETRATION OF THE CORPS.

[245.] The more you meditate on the corporeal world, but the contingency is found in many of
their relations, and therefore the need to resort to a cause greater than been established.
Even the properties that seem more absolute, cease to be when are
subjected to the test of reason.

What could be more necessary than the impenetrability? And But from the moment it looks severely,
it is reduced to a fact experience, which is not based on the intimate nature of the objects, and
that therefore can exist or cease to exist, without contradiction.

[246.] The impenetrability, is that property of bodies, which can
not be together in one place.

For all who do not make a pure reality independent space of bodies, this definition means nothing:
for if the place as pure space, is nothing to speak of a spot, with abstraction of the body, is talking
about nothing. Then impenetrability can not be anything but a certain relationship, or of
bodies or of ideas.

[247.] First order to distinguish between the real and the purely ideal. Impenetrability can be
considered two species, physics and geometry. Physics, is what we see in nature; the geometry
is what is in our ideas. Two metal balloons can not be in one place, here is the physical impenetrability.
The ideas of two balloons we offer two extensions that are mutually exclusive in the sensible
representation behold impenetrability geometric. When we imagine that the two balloons will match
perfectly, and there are not two, but one, when we imagine that a balloon occupies part of
another, is a new figure, Either one is considered as a portion of the other, and therefore
is contained in his idea, so is the case in which the child is placed inside the larger. In
both cases considers the interpenetrating balloons in whole or in part, but this penetration
is no more than the designation of certain parts in the one, considered as a pure space, in which Place
the other, also considered as a pure space. No geometric impenetrability exists only when the two objects
are supposed to separate, and only insofar as they are separated; in which case the impenetrability
is absolutely necessary, because the penetration equate to confused to what is supposed to separate,
that is, they affirm the separation and non-separation, which is contradictory. Then the geometric
impenetrability is no evidence in favor of the impenetrability physical, because that exists in
the single case of this budget, ie that the required under penalty
of contradictions.

It is clear that the same would be in the reality for if we assume two separate bodies, they can
not empathize while they are separated, without crashing into a manifest contradiction. At this point,
the ideal order teaches us nothing on the real.

[248.] Rapport can exist in reality? A metal globe, for example, could come within a metal globe,
as we enter into one another, two geometric balloons? clear is that
it is not the regular order, which contradicts such assumptions, but
the very essence of things.

In this case, stated that there is no contradiction in penetrable bodies do, and that analysis of
this matter shows that the impenetrability bodies has nothing essential.

We have seen that the idea of ??place as pure space, is an abstraction, then it is an assumption
entirely imaginary, one in which every body to give a certain extent, to fill some space, so
that I can not but fill, and will not be possible to one while to admit other in one place. The situation
of the bodies, in general, is the set of their relations, the extension
of each individual body is but a set of relations of its parts together,
to reach or to unextended points, or an infinite smallness, he will
be approached by an infinite division.

The set of relations or indivisible beings is what we call infinitesimal extension and space,
and everything is understood in the vast field that offers us the representation sensitive. Who
told us that these relationships are not variables? Is our experience is perhaps limit the
nature of things? Obviously not. The universe has not been traced on our experience, but our experience
has emanated from him, saying there is no nor can it be anything but what it testifies, is to
make our self the kind of universe is to assert that its laws are rooted in us and are emanations
of our being: pride imperceptible atom fool for that which is presented for a few moments in
the vast theater nature and then disappears foolish pride, for that spirit in spite of the grandeur
capacity, feels powerless to evade these laws, to these phenomena,
according the monstrous assumption, should be the work himself