 

Poldy could not resist the curiosity or the desire to seize defeat from the Promise. So, soon broke
the tie bar through the clothes hanging bird's neck and kept the
commitment in his hands.

It is not known if frightened or angry, then stork could consider stripping, abruptly withdrew from
the lady's wings and flew, rose in the air and eventually view.

Poldy was embarrassed as if he had committed a theft villain, but ultimately dismissed the scruples,
thinking that she had no intention of staying with clothes and was willing to return if the
bird bird turned to her and somehow the application.

Poldy collapsed after more than a few feet of ribbon was wound on silk fabric, shaping the ball,
and loose cloth that was the color of apricot, was written in black ink with too many odd lines
and small letters. He looked at them and Remiro, but in vain, because no one knew. And, although
it was moderately exploited wisely and disciple of his brother Henry Earl, could not quite careful to
determine what language and alphabet and words are signs. He suspected, however, that the inscriptions
on silk fabric were in Sanskrit, a language he studied assiduously and pleasure of his brother,
Count Henry.

III returned to the castle Poldy stimulated by curiosity and the
desire to decipher his brother what he said fabric.

Packed with good appetite, and then, while the widowed countess slept
after lunch, as was the custom, he went to the library with his brother
Henry, told him about mosquito birds learned to weave silk asked translate
what he wrote.

Count Henry testified that he was well versed in the language to translate the lyrics Valmiki suddenly
as they were, without doubt, the lyrics have been in the fabric, but requested time to her sister
have promised an accurate translation of all the same day.

Indeed, just hours after the search number Poldy, took it back to the library,
and showed her triumphant and translated lyrics. - Do not know what
to think, his sister said. Sometimes I imagine that the stork came
from India, where he spent the winter, and the lyrics are the work
of a Brahman, or Nabob Rajah well illustrated, and sometimes, I guess
it may well be a fellow scientist who wrote our lyrics and hung cloth
stork neck to tease the man who found it. - What purpose - Poldy said,
was to propose a countryman of ours that wrong?

I do not know the lyrics yet, but I made sure that the author lives
on the banks of the Indus and Ganges, and not on the Rhine or the
Danube.

Let's
see ... read. - You will see and find some inspiration in the verses
more European than Asian.

The compositions are three: two very short, and one of those two seems to be modeled on the
four verses of the prologue in heaven Faust. The coincidence is unlikely.
And, although not impossible, it seems strange and suspicious that
a Brahmin read Goethe and imitate him. - Come on, read the lyrics without
further preface. - The lyrics say: I want to ask his star shining,
the sky like a completely natural, and close or love, or love quietly
moved my heart. - True, "said Poldy, the lyrics are very similar to
those of Goethe, unless the poet says of himself as Faust tells Mephistopheles.
- Well, I hear the others who have not stopped Christian mysticism
metaphysical style that Tauler and Professor Eckart: no wings and
no light in vain to perfect the human mind is released, but crosses
will Eternal offers tremendous hope. - That's true - Poldy said, and
the same can happen to an Indian, a Christian .

In India, since ancient times, so I heard, mystics as
profound as those in Germany.

Moreover, all countries must be thinkers and poets to imagine and express that could enter and
come up with a love that goes up and enter the reason is subtle and
high. - I will not argue.

I agree that a Brahmin may have composed the song that I just said translated.
Maybe I did a translation on the European than the original not.

Hear now the final composition. poet and mystic within the folds of her growth and human women
as any earthly love, sensual love and inspire us. Something, however, is yet another composition
of mysticism. It's a small piece of the Song Songs, or rather, Gita
Govinda, whose compliments, descriptions and material sensitivity
can be interpreted by otherworldly and transcendent style.
