 If I had to save my reputation, aviada was with a friend like you. What things pose there!

And
smile with an expression of superiority, considering well above what
they could that the people of his friendship with Rafael.

- In the
market you tell me about all the vendors as if this was for me the
most irresistible of flattery; ensure that we are a proud partner.

My gardener takes all occasions to tell me you're very handsome. You give thanks ... What
else?

Even my aunt, my poor aunt who lives in limbo, has left it to me the other day: "You know Rafaelito here
so much? If you want to marry you? "You see, married ha! Ha! Ha! Married! The poor lady did
not see more than this in the world.

And he kept throwing in the face of Rafael, dark and evil thoughts, that hearty laughter and
mocking chatter seemed a mischievous bird satisfied with his freedom.

-
But what do you frown today!

Are you sick? ... What happens?

Rafael seized the moment. I was sick, yes, sick of love.

He understood that the entire city speak of them, he could not hide his feelings. If I knew what
it cost that silent worship! I wanted to start thinking of devotion to her, and could not. Needed
see, hear, and only lived for her. "Read? impossible. Talk to your friends? All repugnant to him.
Their home was a cave that went to great effort to eat and sleep. She left as soon as you wake up
and leave town, it looked like a prison. The field, and the field the blue house where she lived.
Which eagerly awaiting the arrival of the afternoon, the time by an unspoken custom, neither
scored, he could enter the garden and find it in your bank under the palms! ... I could not live
like this. Poor People powerful envied him, so young deputy, and he wanted to be ... You'll
never guess what? What absurd things! Leonora is not mocked! The terms would be that the bank
was for the garden, gently crushed by the weight of your entire afternoons, to become the work
revolving in his delicate fingers, by transforming themselves into one of the people around
her at all times, of that Beppa, for example, that the wake in the morning, leaning asleep
on his head, moving with her breath her hair undone, scattered as a wave of gold on the pillow
and wiped her ivory flesh out the bathroom, sliding your hands for incoming and outgoing curves
of her soft body. Servant, animal, inanimate object something that was in constant contact
with him, that he craved: not to be compelled to the arrival of the night away after a prolonged
farewell ending child pretexts, to return to the irritating banality of his life, the solitude of her
room, in which dark corners, as evil temptation, he thought he saw eyes fixed on green.

Leonora was not laughing. Abríanse inordinately gold flecked eyes, quivering with excitement the
alillas of his nose, and seemed sincerely moved by the eloquent young.

- Poor Rafael! Poor me! ... What do we do?

In the garden, Rafael had never dared to speak so frankly. Le proximity self-conscious of relatives
of Leonora, intimidated him and mocking the surface air with which she received visits, the
irony with which he aimed it a little disconcerting words of love. But there in the middle
of the road, was another thing was free, I wanted to empty his heart. What torment! Every day he went
to the blue house trembling hope, troubled by the illusion. "Perhaps is today, "they said. And
his legs trembled, and saliva in his throat seemed to solidify, drowning. And hours later in the
evening, desperate to return home, marching discouraged in light of the stars, zigzagging on the road
as if he were drunk, feeling beetles tears on the eyelids, wanting to die, as it needs to pass
breaks forward and fists against a huge wall of ice blocks. Did not noticed him? Do not see
the huge efforts made to please? ... Ignorant, humble, recognizing the vast difference that
separates them both for their different life, what's efforts to reach his height, for those placed
at the level of men who had owned for a few days or whole years! She must have noticed. If the
Count was speaking Russian model of elegance, Rafael next day, to the astonishment of his home,
took out his best clothes, and sweating under the sun, oppressed by the high collar, undertook that
journey it was her Street of Bitterness, walk like a lady so that dust does not dampen the shine
of their boots. If the musician German crossed the memory of Leonora, he revisited his books,
and affecting the outside neglect of those artists seen in the novels, arrived there with the purpose
of discussing the immortal master of Wagner, whom he hardly knew, but she adored as a person
family ... My God! All this was ridiculous, he knew him best was presented without disguise, with
all its smallness. Acknowledged that it was impossible that struggle to match with the thousand
ghosts that filled the memory of Leonora, but do not do it for wake that heart to be loved for a
moment, a day any more, and then die!

And there was such sincerity in this confession of love, Leonora,
increasingly agitated, approached to him, taped to his body walked
unwittingly and smiled slightly, repeating his phrase, mixture of
maternal affection and pity.

- Poor Rafael!

... Poor me!

They had reached the gate leading into the garden.

The avenue was deserted.

In the square, shut off the house, ran around the chickens.

Rafael, overwhelmed by the effort of that confession, which took account of anguish and dreams
of many months, he leaned against the trunk of an old orange. Leonora was facing listening to
him with bowed head, scratching the soil with the tip of his red umbrella.

Dying, yes, he had read this many times in novels could not suppress a smile. Now you do not
laugh. I had thought a few nights in the confusion of delirium, end that love tragically. The blood
of his father, violent and domineering, boiled in it. If she convinced that it would never be his,
was not to kill anyone, and kill him later! Drop the two on the ground soaked with blood, as
on a bed of red damask, kiss him in the cold lips, without fear that no one bothered him, kiss
her and kiss her until the last breath of life was lost in the pale
face of it.

She said with conviction, vibrating all the muscles of his face manly, burning like coals Moor
her eyes streaked for the passion of blood veins. And Leonora was looking at him now passion,
as if he saw a new man. Trembled with emotion on hearing the new barbarians dreams, death
threats.

That is not gloomily as the poet killed Italian looking lost love died killing, destroyed the
idol, if not attended to his pleas.

And sweetly moved by the tragic expression of Rafael, was carried
away by it, that had taken an arm and drew her away from the avenue
between the tops of the orange low.

Both remained silent for long. Leonora seemed intoxicated by the virile perfume of those threats of
wild passion.

Rafael, the head down and quietly watch the artist, thought he had offended his words and repented
of them.

Should forgive him, he was crazy. Exasperated at his strength is inexplicable. Lenore Lenore Why
strive to hinder the work of love? He was not indifferent to her, not inspired dislike or hate,
otherwise they would not be friends and would allow continued visits.

Love? ... I was sure that was not sorry for him, poor man, unable to inspire passion for a woman
like her.

But do not resist, and eventually love him, he achieved conquer by
force of love and of worship.

Ay! with only his love, was for the two and all the famous lovers in history. It would be his
slave, the carpet that would his feet, the dog always tended to her,
his eyes burning of eternal fidelity, would end up loving him, if
not for love, gratitude and pity.

And as he spoke, brought his face close to Leonora, seeking his image at the bottom of the
eyes green, pressed his arm with the fever of passion.

- Careful, Rafael ... do you hurt me, Let me go you.

And as if awakened in the middle of danger after a sweet dream, she shuddered, detachment with a nervous
impulse.

Then he began to speak calmly, and record of drunkenness that had troubled the passionate words
of Raphael.

No, what he wanted was impossible. The die was cast, I did not love
... Friendship I had taken something away.

She was to blame, but know about it. It was already a boat old who could not bear the weight
of a new passion. If I had known years before, maybe.

He acknowledged that he had come to love him, he thought more worthy of your love others men
she had loved. But it was late, now I just wanted to live. What horror! The emotions of passion
in a mean, in that small world of trivia and gossip! Hiding like criminals for wanting to! She, like
the love of the outdoors, with sublime immodesty of the statue shocked
the fools with their naked beauty!

Verse eaten away at all hours by the murmuring of fools, after giving his body and soul man!
Feel around the scorn and indignation of all the people that accuse having corrupt a youth, separated
from his path, away forever from the Yours!

No, Rafael, a thousand times no, she was conscious, was not the crazy
times.

- But what about me? - Sighed the young man clutching his
arm again with childhood anxiety - you thinks of itself and all, forgetting
me.

What can I do alone with my passion?

- You forget - he said gravely Leonora .-- Today I saw that it is impossible for me to stay here.
The two need to get away.

I flee before the end of the spring, I will not know where, again the world to sing, where there are
men like you, and the time and absence will be responsible of cure.

Leonora winced when he saw the blaze of wild passion that went through
the eyes of Rafael.

He felt her lips with the hot breath of those who sought his mouth, muttering to roar off:

- No, you will not go, I do not go away.

And he was linked, moved from head to foot by jittery arms that passion
gave new strength.

Her feet left the ground, he was raised, a brutal drive the he fell on his side at the foot
of an orange, while their clothes were moving about convulsive hands,
trembling, that wounded the beast flesh with caresses.

It was a brutal fight, which lasted a few moments ignoble. The Valkyrie reappeared in women up. Its
robust body vibrated with a supreme effort, she sat with her weight
smothering Raphael, Leonora and finally sat up, putting your foot
brutally, without mercy, on his chest Young, squeezing as if trying
to crack the bones of his chest.

His appearance was terrible. It seemed crazy, with dirty blond hair and ground broken. Its green
eyes glowed as sharp metal knives, and his mouth, discolored emotion,
contracting, releasing, by force of habit, the instinct of effort
his battle cry, a hojotoho! torn, savage, which shook the calm of
the garden, shaking to poultry, they ran scared from the trails.

Umbrella brandished in anger as if it were the lance of Wotan's daughters,
and several times pointed it at Rafael's eyes as if to remove them.

The girl seemed crushed by his effort, ashamed of his brutality, lifeless
on the ground, without protest, as if he wished never to rise again,
to die under that foot suffocated him angry.

Leonora calmed down, and slowly came back a few steps, while Rafael
was incorporated, picking up his hat.

It was a painful scene.

The two felt cold, did not see the light, as if the sun had gone out and the garden blowing
an icy wind.

Rafael looked embarrassed when soil was afraid of her, afraid to be seen in the clothes disheveled,
dirty ground, beaten and beaten as a thief who surprised a strong master.

Leonora's voice, speaking with contemptuous familiarity that is used
with the miserable.

- Go!

He looked up and saw the angry and arrogant Leonora, fixed on him.

- Me not take me - he said coldly, - give me if I want.

And in a gesture of contempt and rage with which dismissed Rafael, seemed to mark the memory
Boldini odious, disgusting old man, alone in the world that had taken by force.

Rafael wanted to apologize, ask forgiveness, but that memory of adolescence evoked brutal scene,
made her relentless.

- Go, go, or get slapped! ... Never come back here.

And to give more power to these words as Rafael, humiliated, dirty,
out of the garden, Leonora closed behind him the wooden fence so brutal
momentum, which nearly blew up the bars.

IV

Doña Bernarda Rafael showed himself pleased with her.

No more glaring, gestures severe, the mute scenes between mother
and son, who witnessed with awe the intimate of the house.

He did not go to the blue house, I knew with great certainty, thanks to free intelligence that
the affected people serving the family. Just left the house, a casino by the time the afternoon,
and the rest of the day in the dining room with her and friends,
or locked in his room, no doubt turn his books, which the austere
lady looked with superstitious awe of their ignorance.

Don Andres, the director, commenting triumphantly showed that change. What had him, provided that
Dona Bernarda, in the intimate secrets of their friendship that almost took the character of
a senile passion, quiet and respectful, complained of the rebellion
of youth?

That would happen: it was a quirk of age, had to give youth its own. Rafael no had studied to
Carthusian. Others of his age and even more years were worse! ... And the old Mr. thought
smiling at his easy conquest of the stores, between the unruly flock, miserable and dirty petticoats
papering orange. Good Dona Bernarda, after suffer so much from her husband was very demanding
with his son. Have fun! Enjoyed that!

Already tired of the artist to be so beautiful, and then it would be easy to get back on track.

Doña
Bernarda admired once again the talent of the director, seeing fulfilled
their predictions, made with a cynicism that the devout lady blushed.

She also believed it all over.

His son was less blind than the father.

Was tired the lost love of a woman like that, not wanting to quarrel with his mother for so
little, nor enemies discredit him and returned to duty with great joy of the good lady around
him to seek care.

- How about that? - Her friends asked her mysteriously.

- Nothing - responded with a proud smile .-- It has been three weeks and no hints of wanting back
there. My Rafael is good. What happened was just a distraction boy. If you only saw him in the
evenings to keep me company in the room! An angel, an angel. It spends hours talking to me and
the daughter of Matthias.

He added, exaggerating his smile and mischievous eyes:

- I think there's something.

Something, yes, or at least the appearance of any. Rafael, tired of wandering around the house
tired of books to which he spent hours turning leaves, unaware of
what they said, took refuge in the room where his mother sewed, watching
a complicated embroidery the daughter of Don Matias.

Rafael liked the simplicity of this gentle girl. Its simplicity produced in him a impression of freshness
and relaxation.

Cuevecitas saw it as a narrow and hidden in which slumbered calm after a storm. The satisfied
smile of his mother encouraged him to stay there. I had never been so kind and communicative. The
enjoyment of having him back safe and modified its austere submissive
to the roughness.

Remedios, head bent over her embroidery, heavily reddened whenever Rafael praised their work
or said it was the prettiest girl in Alcira.

The thread helped needles, with outstretched hands acted as the skein winder that curled the
girl and more than once pinched her under the frame, with the confidence to have met child,
which did not prevent her screams shocked.

- Rafael, do not be mad - said the mother kindly threatening their hands .-- Let dry Remedies
work, if you behave so badly will not let you enter the room.

And at night, alone in the room with Mr. Andrew, when it was time for confidences, Dona Bernarda
forgot the affairs of the house and the party to say with satisfaction:

-
That way.

- Do you love Rafaelito?

...

- Every day. The thing is in full swing.

That boy is this the image of his father. Believe me, they should not lose sight. If I were
not here, that little devil would be able to discredit the crazy
house.

And the good lady, she was sure that there was Rafael and daughter of Dr. Moreno, abominable
creature, whose beauty had been her nightmare for some months.

He knew from his spies that morning market were found both in the
streets of Alcira.

Rafael turned her gaze as if looking for a place through which to
escape, she went pale and pretending not to see him later.

What did that mean? ... The break forever. She, good piece, pale with rage, perhaps because he
could not catch her Rafael again, for he, Tired of filth, abandoned
forever.

Ah, the lost! The whore!

What then there was more to educate a child in the most wholesome
and virtuous beliefs and make him a character, so that later came
a correntona thousand times worse than those for money make junk in
an alley to take him away with his hands dirty?

What was believed the daughter of shirtless? ... Rage! Penalty pales, seeing that you will forever!

In
the joy of victory, began to think about the wedding of his son with Remedios, and lifting Reservation
tip of a great lady, Don Matías was like family, praising affection live increasingly linked to
the boys.

- Well if you want - said the rich man's crude - for me that the wedding
is soon.

Remedies makes a lot of paper in my hand: a young woman as there is little for housekeeping, but
This is no obstacle to the wedding. Very satisfied, Dona Bernarda, that we are relatives.
I just feel that Don Ramón can not see these things.

And it was true that the only thing that marred the joy of rustic millionaire, was that it
lived the high and mighty Lord for the pleasure of treating him like an equal, thus crowning
success its amazing fortune.

Doña Bernarda also saw in this union the height of his dreams: money joined power, the millions
of a business whose success seemed wonderful shots of the game, coming
to quicken with sap from the tree of gold Brülls, something cracked
and old for long years of struggle.

Beginning of spring. Dona Bernarda had some afternoons the boys to their gardens or rich estates
of the father of Remedios.

Had to do with what kindness air watching the young couples, screaming alarmed if in his travels
a few minutes remained hidden behind the orange.

- This Raphael - told his counselor that he had confidence that relate more once the sadness of intimacy
with her husband's .-- What a rascal!

Surely that will kissing!
- Let you, Dona Bernarda. The more you get into flour, less risk
of recurrence the other.

Go back? ... There was no care. Rafael enough
to contemplate how picked flowers and placed them laughing in the
head or chest of Remedios, who resisted weakly, with a blushing schoolgirl
moved by such tributes.

- Quiet, Rafaelito - whispered with a voice
like a bleat supplicant .-- Do not touch me; do not be bold.

And
his emotion betrayed in such a way that seemed to be asking the girls
to return to put in your body that upset those hands from the feet
to the root of the hair. Retreated by education, he was fleeing because
this is the duty of a Christian girl and well educated, escaped as
a goat with graceful leaps between the rows of orange trees, and Mr
deputy left behind at a gallop with quivering nostrils and eyes burning.

-
That you take, Remedios! - Mom cried, laughing .-- Run, which takes
you!

Don Andrés contorted his face wrinkled with a smile of old faun.
Those games will rejuvenated.

- Um, ma'am! Yes, things are going
full steam. Is hot. Cassettes you soon, take heed if not, we can give
a lot to laugh Alcira.

And they were all deceived. Neither mother
nor his friend saw the expression of dismay and sadness Rafael when
left alone, locked in a room whose dark corners still saw and mysterious
green eyes that he had spoken to Leonora.

Go back to it? Never. It
lasted shame and self-abasement as of this morning. Was seen in all
its tragic absurdity, matted on the ground, pressed by the foot of
the virile Amazon, stained earth, humble and confused as an offender
fails to apologize. And then the terrible word like a whip: "Go!",
As a lackey who dares venture his lady, and the gate closed behind
him noisily dropping like a stone tomb between him and the artist.

Not
again: he lacked the courage to face his eyes. The morning I found
it by chance near the market, thought he would die of shame legs trembled,
he saw that the street suddenly darkened as if nightfall. She was
gone, and he still buzzing ears and wanted to lean on something, as
if the ground beneath your feet dangle.

I needed to forget their
embarrassing blunder that memory tenacious as remorse, and is near
the protected stunned his mother. She was a woman, and her hands,
which seemed unbound since that painful morning, went to her, her
tongue was, after vehement confession love for the garden gate, now
spoke lightly, expressing an adoration that seemed without a trace
slide down his face expressionless Remedios, going far, far away,
where remained hidden and injured another. 

Remedios was stunned
about to fall into a sad stupid just barely visible. Was a drunkenness
foam evaporated in the desert. Remedios seemed one of those fruits
unseasoned, healthy, with the flick of virginity, free of pitting
and staining, but without the flavor and perfume delight that intoxicates.

In
his strange situation, living for the day of frolicking with a girl
child aroused in him no more than the joy of fraternal camaraderie
and during the night of sad memories, all he pleased was the confidence
of his mother, the quiet of the house, power come and go without feeling
eyes fixed on him angry and to hear words of indignation choked breath.

Don
Andrés and friends of the casino was asked when would the wedding,
her mother spoke presence of the children of the great transformations
that have to do at home