 If so, at all! - Said the young man so vividly as bad temper
.-- If a girl is not into channel! The affairs of the house will have carelessly. For her, the
only important thing in the world is itself, its beauty, its costumes, her jewels ... Everything
else, parents, brothers, husband, do not mean anything ... I am sure has been more concerned
that the hat that Paris has asked that my illness ...

- Oh, do not say that, by God!

You're crazy.

- I'm not crazy. Tell the truth ...

And with a quick word, vibrant, often stumbling by irritation that was possessed, neatly explained
their grievances, pleased to make punctures bleed again that had received in their married life. Ventura
had a diametrically opposite character yours. It was not possible to be good to her over an hour.
Because if last long compromise, and no reason to quarrel appeared, she was in charge of searching,
tired, no doubt, be at peace with her husband. If one thing was a pleasure to provide any, instead
of saying thank you, usually paid him with some scorn or sarcasm. Everything seemed little.
The greatest sacrifice the was small. There was no chance of making it think that their dresses,
perfumes, in their ribbons. What a life he had lead in Madrid three months there had been!
Not out of the shops in silks, jewelry, home of dressmaker. At night, surely the theater. Although
he was tired or depart head pain, nothing, it was necessary to be displayed in a box of Royal
Prince or Zarzuela. The money had been spent there, added an impressive amount. Believed to have
led enough, and three times he had to demand more from your home. Then, realizing that given that
train their income would not have enough, especially if God gave him many children, had tried to
mount a brewery to build even the studies he had done. Ventura had strongly opposed this, saying
it wanted to be "the lady of a beer ..." He was convinced that the blood that had burned in Madrid,
and was still burning Sarrio, was what had caused this sudden attack of erysipelas. Sure! He needed
a life of activity and work, leaving much to the field, hunting, horseback riding. Nature demanded
eventful year. Sedentary life that he liked to Ventura, that eternal theater, those visits,
one stay up late without substance, you killed, blood was placed thick as oil ... But what mattered
to her all that! The main thing was to satisfy their taste in everything and everything ...
In Madrid he had learned to paint, a large lot, because he was white as milk! ... For although
he had stated repeatedly that I hated that disgusting habit, it was
not possible to take her statement.

While thus he unburdened himself in an intermittent flow of words, the face of Gonzalo went on
to express outrage, sadness, anger, contempt, all emotions that stirred his soul to the memory
of their sufferings. His great chest of athlete, moved convulsively on the bed, sitting a few times,
dropping others, while trembling hands clenched instinctively took
care to pull the clothes that impulse their sudden shock was leaving.

Cecilia, with her head bowed and hands hang down and cross, hoping that after listening to him
release the burden of his disappointment, the anger of young postponed.

And so it was. After they had no more words in the body, covering her with the sheet up eyes
let out an endless series of intermixed snorting incoherently. Cecilia began to tell with a
very soft voice:

- I do not know what to say to all this, Gonzalo. Getting into the rifts that may exist in
a marriage is very dangerous. If anyone to interfere in your affairs is not to me, but Mom
... But I've always heard that in every marriage there are fights
and disgustillos, especially in the beginning, as the characters do
not conform ... All of this happens. Are clouds summer. While not
affecting the merits, while the hearts are disengaged, Brawls minor
marriage are well ... And here there is no fear of it, fortunately
... You want to Ventura ..