 One of them, without
interrupting his singing, pressed the right hand of an old woman who was walking beside her
serene and with dry eyes. The mother gathered their forces to accompany his fine fellow, with
a false joy, until the last minute.

Others came loose, detached from their peers, but this would not alone. The rifle hanging from one
shoulder, the shoulders were overwhelmed by the hump of the backpack red legs and hid out from
the wings turns blue coat, was smoking his pipe under the hood of his vest. Before one of them
walked four, ranked by order tall. Turned their heads to admire his father, suddenly magnified by
the trappings military. A companion walked beside him, meek and submissive, as in the first weeks
relations, feeling in a simple soul flourishing of love, a belated spring, Contact born at
risk. The man, a worker in Paris who sang perhaps a month before International, calling for the demise
of the military and the brotherhood of all humans, was now in search of death. His wife held
the sobbing and admired him. The affection and pity he did insist on its recommendations.
In the backpack had put best scarves, the little food she kept at home, all the money. Your
man should not worry about her and the children. Would leave the wrong way as they could. The government
and good souls would be responsible for their fate.

The soldier joked at the waist somewhat distorted by his wife, waving to the next city to arise,
announcing a birth in full victory.

A kiss to the companion, an affectionate Repelon to the offspring, and then joined with comrades
... No tears. Valor! ... Viva France!

The recommendations of those who quit were heard.

No one cried.

But the disappearance the last red trousers, many hands convulsively clung to the bars of the
gate, many tissues were bitten with teeth grinding, many heads were
hidden under agonizing death rattle arm.

And Mr. Desnoyers envied these tears.

The old, losing in his wrinkled hand contact of the right hand of
the child, turned where he believed the hostile country, waving his
arms to murderous rage:

- Ah, villain!

... Bandido!

Again with the imagination to see the face so often referred to in
the illustration pages of newspapers: a mustache of insolent commotion;
a mouth with teeth of a wolf, laughing ... had to laugh laughed as
the men of the Stone Age.

And Mr. Desnoyers envied this anger.

II

New Life

When Margaret
was able to return to the studio on the Rue de la Pompe, Julio, who
lived in perpetual bad mood, seeing everything with dark colors, was
encouraged by a sudden optimism.

The war was not going to be as cruel
as it is imagined all at first. Ten days were passed, and beginning
to become less visible the movement of troops