 

This is the ultimate aristocratic ideal to which we aspire as regards all summer. To do fully offered
many obstacles. The most common is to have no château, or anything remotely similar to it, or the Peninsula
or in the vast expanse of Europe, but this lack is supplied or are obscured if we have a cottage,
a farmhouse or a farm, which, speaking in French château can be described without much scruple.

Still,
however, is too often the family elegant, stylish or fumes, no home
where the smoke come from, ie does not even farm.

If you have a friend or relative, the family can take advantage of friendship or kinship. If
There is not no way farmhouse is deleted the purely rustic resort is limited to the hydropathic,
sweet, salty, or both. That is to mean that not having chateau or farmhouse to spend a month,
used all the time in the bathrooms, though no family never bathe. Just take the waters by
inhalation, breathing, say, Atlantic breezes in that Biarritz in San Juan de Luz, San Sebastian,
Santander or Deva.

Finally, if the desire to be eclipsed in recent months afflict too much heat, and the stock is
so drained, that there is not to go swimming or Motrico sea view,
is gone elegant, stylish family or to any place in La Mancha, where
sometimes the plain and unadorned, and no trees or shrubs of the field,
mimics the sea, and the grasshoppers, crabs and fish and there he
is taking all their fresh flavor, until it is the opportune time and
season return to Madrid without violating the laws and liturgies of
good tone.

There are families, but I just want him to believe, who says, not to violate such laws and liturgies,
as that will make travel and discreet and are surreptitiously economic here in very severe
confinement, having this line of martyrdom, to be conducive to deity whom they worship, which
is the fashion.

Anyway, now really, and using tricks and resources of some sophistical, this is the If in the months
of July, August and September in Madrid is only known person.