 Women amazed
watching him, the men retreated, forming wide circle around him that he cried oaths, waving his hands
as if to close to blows with the whole crew. Le enraged the silence of those people, as if to an unruly
crew.

- When did Captain Llovet not find in your village men who follow the sea?

The roaring said, as a tyrant who is disobedient, as a God who provides
the flight the faithful.

He spoke in Castilian, which was the sign of blind rage.

- Present, Captain! "- Shouted at one time a few voices trembling.

And breaking through, appeared in the center of the circle five old, five skeletons gnawed
by the sea and storms, former sailors of Captain Llovet, carried by the subordination and affection
that creates the danger faced in common. Yet a little shuffling, others with hopping of a bird,
one with eyes wide open, showing the pupils the vagueness of senile
blindness, all trembling with cold, his body wrapped in yellow cloth
double cap pulled on scarves wraps to the temples.

It was the old guard running to die alongside his idol.

Of women and children leaving groups, which were thrown on them trying
to stop them.

- Grandfather! - Shouted grandchildren.

- Stop! -
Wailed the Bouncers.

And the brave old men, standing as the hacks dying to hear the clarion
call of battle, repelled the arms to be tied to their necks and legs,
and shouted the voice answering your boss:

- Present, Captain!

Sea lions with his idol in front, were opened to the sea happened to take one of the boats. Red,
flushed by the effort, his neck swelled with rage, managed only move the boat and slip a few steps.
Angry with his age, tried a new effort, but the crowd was protesting against his madness, and
fell upon them, disappearing old caught by their families.

- Let
me, you cowards!

When you touch me, I'll kill him! - Roared the captain Llovet.

But for the first time that people, who adored him, put his hand on
him.

I grabbed as crazy, deaf to his entreaties, oblivious to their curses.

The boat, abandoned all help, ran to death on the waves tumbling. Already close to the rocks,
and was going to crash between swirls of foam, and the man who both had spurned such a life, which
had fed to the sharks with tribes whole name and wearing a dark scary as a legend, stirring
furious, subject a hundred hands, cursing because he was not allowed
to risk the existence relief to some unknown, until, exhausted their
strength, eventually crying like a child.

An official

Reclining on the bed and continuing with vague look roof cracks, journalist Juan Yanez, the only
guest room political thought had come that night in the third month of confinement.

The nine ... The horn had thrown in the yard the long notes of taps; in the corridors rang with
monotonous equal steps of the guards, and closed blocks, filled with
human flesh, came a rhythmic sound, like the breath of a furnace distant
or the breathing of a sleeping giant it seemed impossible that at
the old convent so silent, whose ruin was more visible to the harsh
light of gas, sleeping a thousand men.

The poor Yáñez, forced to lie at nine, with a perpetual light before the eyes and plunged in a
deafening silence that made them believe in the possibility of dead
world, thinking how was hard to settle your account with the institutions.

Cursed item! Each line was cost you a week of closure, each word a day.

And Yanez, remembering that night the opera season began with Lohengrin,
the opera favorite, saw the boxes full of lovely bare shoulders and
necks, between flashes with jewels, silks and airy reflexes waving
feathers ruffled.

- The nine ... You have now left the swan, and
the son of Parsifal will launch its first notes between public expectation
hiss ... And here I am!

Christ! I have no bad opera ...

Yes, it was not bad. The dungeon below, as if it came from an underground, came the telltale
noises with a brute existence of the mountain, who were to execute a time to time by a number
of murders. It was a clash of strings that looked like the noise a lot of nails and old keys,
and occasionally a weak voice repeated: "Pa. .. dre ours that is ... TAS in the heavens ...
San ... ta Maria ... "with timid, pleading expression the child who sleeps in the arms of his mother.
Always repeating the monotonous chant, without that could make him stop! In the opinion of the
majority, wanted to pretend to be crazy to save it Neck: maybe fourteen months of confinement in
a dungeon, waiting for all hours death, had finished with their little brains of fierce instinctual.

Yanez
was cursing the injustice of men, who for a few scribbled pages in
a bad mood when he was forced to sleep every night, lulled by the
delirium a sentence of death, when he heard loud voices and hurried
footsteps on the same floor where was his department.

- No, not sleep
there - cried a voice tremulous and high-pitched -.

Am I a criminal? I an officer of Mercy and the same as you ... and thirty years of service. Who ask
for Nicomedes: everybody knows me, even the newspapers have spoken of me. And after staying
in jail, do you still want me to sleep in a loft or for prisoners serving? Thank you very much.
Is this what I ordered to come?

... I'm sick and not sleep there. Bring me a doctor, I need a doctor ...

And the journalist, despite their situation, exhilarated by the intonation reíase effeminate and
ridiculous with that of thirty years of service requested by the doctor.

He repeated the murmur of voices as if they were discussing Council
were heard steps, each time closer, and opened the door to the room
of politicians, sticking out her cap with gold braid.

- Don Juan
- said the employee with a certain shyness - you have company tonight
... Dispense you is not my fault, the need ... Anyway, tomorrow will
already have the head otherwise.

Pass you ... sir.

And Mr. (well, with an ironic intonation) passed the door, followed by two prisoners, one with
a suitcase and a bundle of blankets and sticks, another with a canvas bag which marked the
edges of a wide and low box height.

- Good evening, sir.

Greeted with humility, with a trembling voice that he did laugh Yáñez,
and take your hat off discovered a small head, cane and carefully
shaved.

It was a fifty obese, ruddy; layer seemed to fall off their shoulders, and a pack of charms
dangling from a thick chain gold pattered on his belly at the slightest movement. His eyes
were small reflections steel blue, and the mouth appeared oppressed
by a curved and drooping mustache like two question marks.

- You
dispense - said, sitting down - I will bother you much, but it's not
my fault.

I have come on the train tonight, and I find that I get to an attic
bedroom filled rats.

What a trip!

- Are you a prisoner?

- At this point, yes - he smiled - but do not bother much with me.

And the pot-bellied bourgeois showed obsequious, humble, as if asking forgiveness for having usurped
his place in prison.

Yáñez staring at him: so shy he was astonished.

Who was that guy? And of course ideas danced imagination loose, just
outlined, which seemed to seek and pursue complete a thought.

Suddenly, the sound in the distance again complaining of the beast locked Paternoster, journalist
sat nervously, as if she had to catch a fleeting idea, setting his sight in that bag that was
at the feet of the newcomer.

- What have you there?

... Is the tool box?

The man hesitated, but finally gave him the quizzical expression energetic,
and bent head affirmatively.

Then the silence was long and arduous.

Some prisoners placed man's bed in a corner of the room. Yáñez stared at his companion accommodation,
who stood with bowed head, as shying away from their eyes.

When the bed was made and the prisoners retreated, closing the door
with the employee exterior lock, continued the painful silence.

Finally, one subject made an effort and spoke:

- I'll give you a bad night, but it's not my fault: they have brought me here. I resisted, knowing
that you are a decent person will feel my presence as the dark side may have occurred in this
house.

The young man was disarmed by such humility.

- No, sir, I'm used to it - said wryly -. They are made in this house so good friends, that nothing
else matters! Also, you do not look bad person.

And the reporter, who had not been cleansed from his first romantic readings, was very original
to the interview and felt some satisfaction.

- I live in Barcelona - continued the old - but my partner in this district has been dead some
of the last binge, and yesterday, showing up at the hearing, a sheriff told me: "Nicomedes ...
'Cause I'm Nicomedes Flavours. Have not you heard of me? ... It is strange; the press has published
many times my name.

"Nicomedes, order of the president that take the train tonight.

"I come with the intention of getting into an inn until the day of work, and from the station
brought me here, I do not know what fears and precautions, and more scorn, I want to hold Don
rats. Have you seen? Is this way of treating justice officials?

- How many years have you been playing the position?

- Thirty years, sir: I started at the time of Elizabeth II. I'm the dean of the class and tell on
my list to political row. I have the pride of having always fulfilled
my duty.

The will now be one hundred two. There are many, right? Well, I have behaved with all the best
I could. None will have complained about me.

Even the veterans have been presidio that by me at the last moment,
he calmed down and said: "Nicomedes, I am pleased that be you.

"

The official view was cheering in kind and curious attention paid him Yáñez. He was taking land: every
time he spoke with more disengage.

- I have also my little inventor - continued -.

The devices are manufactured by myself, and As for cleaning no more than asking ... Do you
see them?

The reporter jumped out of bed as if to flee.

- No, thank you very much. I believe it.

And he looked with disgust those hands whose palms were red and greasy. Blow this cleaning time
talking recently, but Yanez seemed impregnated human fat juice of one hundred who formed his
list.

- And are you satisfied with the profession? - Asked to make him forget the desire to look
their inventions.

- What a relief! ... Must conform. My only consolation is that every time you work less. But how hard
is that bread! If I had known! ...

And looking at the ground fell silent.

- All against me - continued -. I have seen many comedies, you know? I have seen that certain ancient
kings went everywhere carrying back the executor of his righteousness, dressed in red with the
ax to the neck, and made him his friend and adviser. That was logical! The manager to meet the
justice it seems to me someone and deserves some consideration. But these all times are hypocrisy.
Cries the prosecutor asking for a head on behalf of who knows what
things respectable, and all seems well, I'm off after his bidding,
and I spit and insult me.

Say, sir, is this fair?

... If I go into an inn, I put in the door just know me in the street all shun my touch, and even in
court me pay to throw his feet as if I were an officer just like them, as if my money was not
on the budget ... All Against Me! And then - just added a voice perceptible - the other enemies
... The other! Did you know?

Those who left never to return, and yet again, that hundred unhappy that I dealt with Father cuddles,
making unharmed and that ... Ingrates!

I just come to see me alone.

- What! ... Do they return?

- Every night. There are those who annoy me recently: the past, and scarcely seem Friends which
I left yesterday, but the old ones from my early days, when I was still excited and I felt awkward,
those are real demons that, just see me alone in the dark parade on my chest in an endless
procession, oppress me, choking me, touching my eyes with edge of their hopas. They follow
me everywhere, and as I grow old are more frequent. When I got into the attic began to see them
poke through the darkest corners. For this reason she a doctor: I was sick I was afraid at
night, I wanted light, company.

- How long are you alone?

- No, I have family there in my little house on the outskirts of Barcelona, ??a family that gives
no trouble: a dog, three cats and eight chickens. They do not understand is why people respect
me, me like as if I were a man like others. Age quietly beside me. Never I happened to kill a
chicken, I faint to see bloodshed.

He said this with the same plaintive voice before, weak, overwhelmed, as if he felt the slow collapse
from within.

- And never did you family?

- Me? ... As everyone! You tell it all, sir. So long ago I do not speak! ... My wife died six years
ago. Do not think that was one of those drunken sluts and brutish, which is the role that novels
reserves the female executioner. It was a girl of my people, with whom he married upon returning
from service. We had a son and a daughter; bread enough, much misery, and what do you want?
youth and a certain brutality of nature I brought to the office. Do not think I got the job easily,
until needed influences. At first hacíame grace the hatred of the people, I was proud to inspire
terror and disgust. I served in many hearings, we shot half of Spain, and the boys more and more
beautiful, until finally we were in Barcelona. What a season! The best my life: five or six years
there was no work. My savings were converted into a house in outside and the neighbors appreciated
Don Nicomedes, a man sympathetic employee at the hearing. The boy, an angel of God, a worker,
Miss Prude and quiet, was in a commercial house; girls - how much I regret not having her
picture here! - the girl, who was a seraph, with big eyes blue and blond braids, thick as
my arm, and when they ran around our little garden resembled one of those ladies who go to operas,
not going to Barcelona with his mother without some young came upon her footsteps. Had a serious
boyfriend, a good boy who would soon to be a doctor. Things she and her mother, I pretended
not to see anything with that kind blindness parents that are reserved for the last time. But Lord,
how happy we were!

Nicomedes's voice was increasingly shaky, his little blue eyes were glazed. Do not cry, but his
grotesque obesity agitábase with tremors of the child who makes efforts to swallow tears.

- But it occurred to a fiend with a long history to be caught, was
sentenced to death and I had to take over when I had almost forgotten
what my office.

What a day that one! Half the city knew seeing me on the stage, and there was even journalists,
such as worse an epidemic (you dispense), found out my life, presenting in print to me and my
family, like we're freaks, and saying with admiration that we facade decent people. We were
put in fashion. But what style! The neighbors closed doors and windows to see me, and although
the city is great, I always knew in the streets and insulted me. One day, coming home, I received
my wife like crazy. The girl! The girl! ... Saw in bed, his face
contorted, greenish, she so pretty! and white-spotted tongue. Was
poisoned, poisoned with matches, and had suffered atrocious pain for
hours, silence for the remedy came too late ... And here! The next
day was no longer living. The poor had value. He loved with all his
soul to mediquín, and I read the letter in which the boy said goodbye
forever over who was the daughter. Do not cry. Was it time? The world
coming down on us, the misfortune was blowing everywhere, this quiet
home We had built collapsed by its four corners. My son ... also my
son threw the trading house, and was useless to seek new placement
or support your friends. Who crosses the word with the son of the
executioner? Poor thing! As if he had given to choose the father before
coming to the world! What crime did he, so good, that I would have
begotten? Spent all day at home, people fleeing in a corner of the
little garden, sad and neglected since the death of the girl. "What
do you think, Anthony?" He asked. "Dad, I think of Anita." The poor
deceived me. Thought of him as we had cruelly wrong for a while thinking
ourselves equal to others, and committing the insolence of want to
be happy. The thud was terrible: unable to get up. Antonio disappeared.

-
And nothing has known you from your son? - Said Yanez, interested
in the grim history.

- Yes, after four days. We fished off Barcelona,
??came wrapped in networks swollen and broken ... I guess you and
others. The poor old woman was slowly, as if tirasen guys it from
above, and I, the bad, the hopeless, I am left here alone all alone,
without recourse even to drink, because if I get drunk, they come,
You know? them, my persecutors, to go mad with the flutter of black
hopas as if they were huge crows, and I get to die ... And yet, not
hate