 

The most unique was that neither in that miserable state had to abandon my good accounting Thiers from
home. While in bed, gave his wife the keys to the drawer where he had money, but since it was
raised again wanted to take up the reins of government and exercise that sovereign function, which
is the most obvious attribute domestic authority. Not intimidated by superimposing their blindness
and active spirit to the body condition, rose up from its seat, approached the table, felt
the furniture to avoid tripping, and opened the drawer Take the drawer where the money was.
Tact had acquired in such a short period education, the fineness in his own private vision,
and knew the coins sobarlas weigh them up and only a little. With the chest on his knees,
he was taking and counting to put the race much in the hands of his wife. This was a timid observation:
"You see, my son, spending is higher in these days."

- Well, it is not. Dress up ... Ah! Today is Saturday, the twenty-four coal actual ... As for the
dancing master, if he insists on raising more tanks, I do not pay more than what the usual,
the rest is on your own. Do not make me more chicken stock, unless the chef chief send you some.
Delete the fourth chicken or the chicken. Fortunately I've gotten used not to be a man of fuss. The
broth cooked with good bone and marrow is better than nothing.

Rosalia, not to the contrary, all said Amen. After removing the everyday of spending money, Bringas
stayed a while with the chest on his knees, and raising a false bottom the mueblecillo had, took
out an old and kneaded portfolio, whose folds were appearing Some notes of the Bank. With
exquisite touch the recitations, duplicated, them again carefully fold, saying: "This is the five
hundred, these two four thousand ... etc.. " Conocíalos by the order they were posted ... Then
put everything in place with respectful pause, kept the ark, and throwing the key is deposited
in your left pocket vest. The lady drove up to put back into the
chair