 A
cautious, wise and zealous government, inflamed with the spirit of patriotism, without intermission
other enthusiasms, under a real protection, which we in the day, taking all the growth and happiness
of the vast domains governing will be the main bases and columns which support and sustain
the successful outcome of these prove useful.

                         

PART THREE.

The short early establishment of the Black River, and his stubborn opposition, because of so
much waste and costs, [C] you have so much in the air, that the minor storm, everything he gives
ground. For their preservation and increase, it takes much skill and pulse, because real estate
is not in state spending and the multitude of reports and papers
submitted to the Court, have warmed to that first fervor that was
promoted by deleting in its real spirit foundations and causes, and
if not now seeks to hold, all is lost.

These reflections made me, or rather, forced to give the report of February 16 This year, by
order of 14 of the Viceroy Lord asked me D. Juan Jose de Vertiz, to fix the setting in the manner
commanded by His Majesty, the royal order of 1. ยบ August. The blind obedience and the deplorable
state of these issues gave me no other measure, to express the manner and form of their reduction,
leaving room for so short that promoted root, and produjese the high
expectations I have expressed previously, as having said I do that
in that state could not survive, was preparing his whole hurricane
debris.

They reformed to establish the single number of 12 families propose the means of its conservation
and subsistence, and open field with the promotion of whaling, and
supply of salt for to hold and flourish without spending real estate,
and these are the only means have to sustain and encourage, and should
deserve all the attention of this Government.

While the former is of more importance than the second, this is soon and easily, because spending
in the province does not cease, and beseeching order of His Majesty, to not allow in Spain
loading and driving of this kind to the ports of Rio de la Plata, and is prohibited where the carts
go to Salinas as has hitherto been practiced, it is this advantage to the benefit of that population,
and its neighbors engaged in the work of its stocks and the release
of its fruits, achieve profitable use of the industry and trade; with
the whaling established in the port of San Jose will be more important.