 What matters is to proceed with
quiet, to see all that there is no bias, no hate, no spirit of revenge, you use a right and
a duty to obey them. "Revenge impetuous, violent, frankly unfair, had not been able to achieve a
victory that has been obtained without difficulty peaceful revenge, insidious, hypocritically
disguised in the veil of reason, justice, of duty.

For this reason it is so fearful of revenge when he acts on behalf of zeal for justice. When
the heart possessed of hatred come to deceive himself, believing impulses to act of good will,
perhaps, the same love, is as subject to the fascination of a reptile whom he does not see, and
whose existence or even suspicion. So envy destroys reputations more pure and enlightened, pursues
relentless rancor, revenge is glorified in seizures and sorrow of the unfortunate victim, making
it exhausting to the dregs the pain and bitterness. The celebrated Protomártir shone by his eminent
virtues and terrify the Jews with his eloquence God, what do you think that name will envy and revenge,
dry them hearts and grind your teeth? Do you think that was the name surname is theirs? No,
in any way. These men are a scream as full of scandal, cover their ears, Deacon and slaughter
the innocent in God's name. El Salvador in the world to admire how hear him with the divine beauty
of his moral character and the wonderful stream of wisdom and love flowing from his lips Augustus
people throng to see him, and he goes about doing good; courteous to the young, compassionate
with the unfortunate, soft on the culprits, pour full hands the treasures of his omnipotence
and love, only to pronounce words of kindness and pardon, would seem to reserve the language of
a holy and terrible indignation to confuse to the hypocrites. They have found in it a majestic
look and severe, and they have corresponded with a look of snake. Jealousy is ripping the heart,
feel a burning revenge. But what will work, talk and vindictive? No, this man is a blasphemer,
say, seduce the crowd, is an enemy of Caesar, the fidelity for the public peace, religion demands
that it be removed from the middle. And he accepted the treachery of a disciple, and the innocent
Cordero will be taken to the courts, and will be questioned, and responding words of truth, the
prince of the priests will feel devoured with envy, and tear his clothes, and say "Cursed,"
and the bystanders say "it is worthy of death."

§ XL.

Precautions.

Never a man meditate much about the secrets of his heart never deployed too surveillance to save
the thousand doors where you enter your iniquity never be cautious too much against the many
pitfalls with which he is fighting to himself. Are not passions so scary when presented as they
are in themselves, speaking openly to his subject, trampling and impetuously as they are put forward.
In this case, however little is preserved in the spirit of love of virtue, if the man has not
yet come to the bottom of the corruption or the evil, feel rising in his soul a cry of horror and
indignation, as soon as it offers the service with her looks disgusting. But what dangers do
not run, if bartered names, and changed the costumes, everything is offered in disguise, upset?
if your eyes look through prisms misleading, they paint with colors and gentle Galanos However,
the blackness and monstrosity?

The greatest dangers of a pure heart are not in the brutal passions of the gross incentive but those
feelings that love for their delicacy and seduce you with her tenderness, fear does not fit
into the noble souls but with the dictates of prudence, the greed is not entered generous breasts
but with the title of foresight economy, pride takes shelter under the shadow of love of one's
dignity, and respect due to the position held: the vanity provides its little joys, vain deluding
to the urgent need know the opinion of others, to take advantage of criticism is disguised revenge
the robe of righteousness, the furor his name is holy indignation; laziness invokes their aid the
need of rest, and the gnawing envy destroy reputations, to engage in obfuscate his breath
impure the splendors of eminent merit, speaks of love of truth, of fairness, how much they should
guard against an ignorant or admiration childlike enthusiasm.

§ XLI.

Hypocrisy of the man himself.

The man used the hypocrisy to deceive himself, perhaps more than to deceive the others. Rarely given
to himself Mobile accurate account of their actions, and therefore, even in the purest virtues,
there is some dross. Entirely pure gold is not obtained but in the crucible of a perfect divine
love and that love, in all its perfection, is reserved to the heavenly realms. While living here on
earth, we have in our hearts a malignant germ or kills or weakens, or tarnish the virtuous
actions, and no small if you get to keep the germs to develop and we lost. But, in spite of
so much weakness, continues to shine in the depths of our soul that inextinguishable light on in her
by the hand of the Creator, and that light we distinguish between good and evil, serving us to guide
our steps, and regret our mistake. For this reason, we strive to deceive ourselves to not get
in too apparent contradiction with the opinion of consciousness, we covered our ears to hear
what she says, eyes closed not to see what she shows us, try us the illusion that the principle
teaches us is not applicable to this case. For this unfortunately serve the passions, insidiously
suggesting sophistical speeches.

Cuestal much the man look bad, or even their own eyes, do not dare,
it is hypocritical.

§ XLII.

The self-knowledge.

The defect referred to in the preceding paragraph has a different character in different people,
for which reason, should in no way ever losing sight of that rule of the ancients so profoundly
wise: know thyself; Nosce te ipsum. While there are certain qualities common to all men, they take
a particular character in each, each which has, so to speak, a spring that should know and
be able to handle. This spring, is necessary to discover what is in the other, to ascertain
to behave well with them, but is more necessary still discover each
one in itself.

Because there tends to be the secret of the great things and good
and bad, on account of that spring is but a propensity strong, reaching
to the others, subordinating all to an object.

This ruling passion resent all the others, she mixes in all acts
of life, it is what called character.

§ XLIII.

Man flees from himself.

If we had the unfortunate inclination to escape ourselves, if the contemplation of within us
we are not repugnant to such an extent, we would not be difficult to discover what is the passion
that we dominated. Unfortunately, no one ran away as much as ourselves, study anything less than
what we have more immediate and more interest. The generality of men down to the pit, not
only without being known to himself, but also without trying. We should be constantly looking
down on our hearts to know their tendencies, to penetrate its secrets, to restrain their impulses,
to correct his vices, avoid their wanderings, we should live with that inner life in which
man realizes their thoughts and feelings, and not put in relation to external objects, but after
having consulted his reason and his will given to the appropriate
address.

But this is not ago, the man rushes, sticks to the objects that incite, living only with the
outer life that leaves you time to think about himself. Sort are clear understandings, hearts beautiful,
do not keep for themselves any price that has enriched the the Creator, they shed, so to speak,
in streets and squares the exquisite aroma, which saved at the bottom of his heart, it could
be of comfort and gift.

Pascal referred to with great eagerness having devoted himself to mathematics and science Natural
tired of this study to find cause fewer people who can discuss on
the object of his favorite occupations.

Eager to find a subject that had not this problem is devoted to the
study of man, but soon learned from experience The study dealing with
the man were still in a lower number of fans to mathematics.

This is true now as in Pascal's time, suffice it to common men to
take to see how few are those who like such a task, mostly case themselves.

§

XLIV.

Good results reflect on the passions.

When you have acquired the habit of reflecting on their own inclinations, distinguishing the
nature and intensity of each of them, even when towing at one time or another spirit they
do not know that this violence. Maybe blind understanding, but this blindness is not set at
all to who has it, it says to himself, "you think you see, but not really see it;'re blind. "But
if man ever set his eyes on the inside, if you work according to impelled the passions without
bothering to figure out where the impulse is born; for him to become one and the same passion
and determination, intellect and instinct opinion passions.

So the reason is not only a slave mistress, instead of leading, coaching
and correcting with advice and mandates the inclinations of the heart,
is reduced to vile instrument them, and obliged to employ all the
resources of its sagacity to provide enjoyment to satisfy them.

§ XLV.

Wisdom of the Christian religion in the direction of behavior.

The Christian religion to lead moral lives close to the reflective about our inclinations,
has done a highly according to the most sound philosophy, and discovers a deep knowledge the
human heart. Experience teaches that what is missing man to do good, no is speculative and general
knowledge, but practical, detailed, with application to all acts of life. Who does not know
and does not repeat a thousand times that the passions we go astray and we lost? The difficulty
is that, but know the passion that influences this or that case,
which one usually dominates the action, in what form, under what costume
is presented to the spirit, and how attacks should be rejected, or
forestall its stratagems.

And all this, not as you want, but with a clear understanding, living, and that course is offered
both to the understanding, provided it is taking a resolution, business even more common.

The difference in the speculative sciences mediates between an ordinary man and another outstanding
is not to often but it knows clearly and accurately distinction, what that only knows one
way inaccurate, confusing and dark, not to the number of ideas but on the quality, nothing
says this about a point, that also does not have notice that, both look the same object, only
the sight of one is much more perfect than the other. The The same happens with regard to practice.
Men speak of the profoundly immoral moral, in such a way that no manifest disregard its rules,
but these rules are known them in general, without being careful to make applications, without
having noticed the obstacles that prevent them on the ground in this or that occasion, but
you can think of a way pure and alive, when offered an opportunity to make use of them. Who is
in possession of his intellect and the will, the whole man, the passions, those moral rules hold them,
so to speak, filed in the recesses of his consciousness, nor even like look at them as objects
of curiosity, afraid of finding in them the worm of remorse. By contrast, when virtue is rooted
in the soul, moral rules become a familiar idea, which accompanies all thoughts and actions,
which comes alive and stirred the lowest risk, and urges prevailing before acting, that gnaws
incessantly if the has been neglected. The continued presence under the intellectual cause of
moral rules and presence in turn helps to strengthen virtue, so that
religion does not cease inculcate, certain of which are precious seed
that will sooner or later some fruit.

§ XLVI.

Moral sentiments auxiliary virtue.

In support of ideas or moral feelings, which is also the very moral, and powerful and beautiful for God
to allow our spirit rattle and tumultuous and violent ominous storms, also wanted to provide
the soft zephyrs gentle rocking. The habit of attending to the moral rules and to obey its requirements,
develops and fuels these feelings, and then the man to follow the path of virtue, fighting inclinations
bad with the good inclinations, the struggles are not so much danger,
and especially not so painful, because a fight with another feeling
feeling, what you have to sacrifice of one is offset by the pleasure
caused by the triumph of another, and there those suffering harrowing
experience that, when reason fight with the heart all alone.

This development of moral feelings, that call in aid of under the same passions, is a powerful resource
for doing good and illustrate the understanding when you obfuscate other passions. There is opposition
in many different combinations that give excellent results. The love of pleasure is neutralized
with the love of one's dignity, excessive pride is tempered by the fear of becoming obnoxious,
vanity is tempered by fear of ridicule; laziness is stimulated by the desire of glory restrains
anger apparently not decomposed; the thirst for revenge is mitigated or terminated, with the
joy and honor that are to be generous. With this combination, with the shrewd opposition of
good feelings to the feelings bad, gently and effectively weaken
many of the germs of evil that shelters the heart human and man is
virtuous, while being sensitive.

§ XLVII.

A rule for practical trials.

Known the mainspring of their own heart, and developed as much as possible the generous and
moral sentiments, it is necessary to know how it is to direct the understanding to make guesses
in their practical judgments.

The first rule you must remember is not to judge or discuss with respect to any object while the spirit is
under the influence of passion on the same object. How offensive does not seem a fact, a word, a gesture
that just irritate! "The intention the offender, it is said the victim himself, could not be more
malignant, has been proposed not only damaged, but outrage, those present should be offended,
if not take prompt and complete revenge, to grin looming on everyone's lips would become hopelessly
in utter disregard for who has tolerated it so outrageous cover of ignominy. It should not
be broken, it is true, but is there anything more upset that the abandonment of honor? need
for caution, but this prudence should you get to the point left trampled by everyone? "Who does
this speech? Is it right? certainly not; is anger.

But the anger, say, does not run much. Yes, runs, for his service takes understanding, and this
provides you everything you need. And this service does not stop assist him in his turn the same anger,
because the passions in his moments of exaltation, fertilize wit admirably with the inspirations
that suit them.

Do we want a test that ran and who thus spoke was not the reason but anger? hela evident here.
If you think the man had something really angry, not disavow of all the bystanders. They are not
without feelings of honor, also consider much his own dignity, they know the difference between
a word spoken with plan to censure, and another breakaway unintentionally offensive, and yet
they see nothing of what the angry see so clearly, and if you smile, that smile is caused not by
the humiliation he imagine to have suffered, but by that terrible
explosion of anger, for no reason.

But still: it is not necessary to go to the bystanders to find the
truth, enough to appeal at the same anger when anger is gone.

Judge "then and now?

It is well certainly not, he will perhaps be the first to laugh at his anger and he will ask you
disguise his outburst.

§ XLVIII.

Another rule.

From these observations comes another rule, which is that when we feel under the influence of passion,
we make an effort, to suppose for a moment even in the state in which your influence there. A
similar reflection, and faster than it contributes greatly to calm passion, and to excite in
the minds different ideas suggested by the inclination blind.

The force of passion is broken, from the moment that is at variance with a thought that stirs in
the head, the secret of his victory is usually to turn off all contrary to them, and brightening favorable.
But as soon as attention is has led to another order of ideas, is the comparison, and therefore
ceases exclusivity. Meanwhile other forces are developed intellectual and moral unsubordinated
to passion, and it loses its original energy by having to share power with other life Before desfrutar
alone.

Advised the media not only the experience of their success, but also
a legitimate reason in the nature of our organization.

The intellectual and moral faculties never exercise operate without some of the material organs.
Now, between bodily organs are distributed a number of vital forces alternately enjoyed greater
or lesser degree, and therefore to decrease in the one, when there is increased in others.
This being so, it has to produce a salutary effect on efforts to put in action intelligence bodies
as opposed to the passions, and that energy of these has to subside as they serve the organs
of intelligence.

But it is noted that this phenomenon was verified by directing the
attention of intelligence in a direction opposite to the passions,
which is obtained by transferring it for a moment the order of ideas
which will, when not under an influx passionate, as if by intelligence
contrary it is to promote passion, then this will encourage more and
more with the help, and what we could lose power, so to speak, purely
organic, recovered in moral power, in the greatest abundance of resources
to achieve the object, and that kind of bill of indemnity that is
believed free of charges, when you see that understanding supports
far from combat.

This work on the passions is not just a theory, anyone can convince themselves that it is practicable,
and they feel its good effects as soon as applied to it. It is true that not always is right
in the middle but on purpose to drown tuning or to direct the passion lifted; or still found, you are
not used properly, but the habit of looking only sufficient for man to be more about themselves,
do not leave too facility to the first movement, and has in its practical
judgments criteria missing those who come otherwise.

§ XLIX.

The man laughing at himself.

When man used to seeing much their passions, to get inside to use ridicule against themselves,
the ridicule, the salt that is in the heart and lip mortals as one of many preservatives against
intellectual and moral corruption, ridicule, not only with fruit is used against others, but also
against us them, seeing our shortcomings on the side that lend themselves to satire. The man
says then to himself what others may say, attend the scene that would represent, If the launch
fell into the hands of an adversary of wit and good humor. That is used against another also somewhat
satire, when we use against ourselves, because although is observed within us two men vying
for that fight, they are never in peace, and just as intelligent, moral, foresighted, used
against the clumsy, the immoral the blind, strength of will and the rule of reason, and also
sometimes fights it and humiliates him with the sharp arrows of satire. Satire can be both
funnier and free, the lack of witnesses, does not hurt the reputation,
there is nothing to lose in the opinion of others, because it fails
to be expressed in words, and the grin that makes come to our lips
is extinguished at the time of birth.

A thought of this kind happening in the agitation caused by the passions, produces a effect similar
to a word judicious, incisive and penetrating, launched amid turbulent meeting. How often is
noted that a look expressive change the state of mind one of the bystanders, moderate or drowning
a frenzied passion! What has expressed that look? nothing more than a memory of decorum, a
consideration to the place or people, a friendly reproach, a delicate irony, nothing more than an appeal
to common sense the same as a sport of passion, and this has been sufficient for the passion
subsides.

The effect of another gives us producírnoslo why we could not ourselves,
if not equality, at least approximation?

L. §

Perpetual childhood of man.

Little enough to lose the man, but not take much to correct some defects. Is weaker than bad,
far from satanic stubbornness that does not deviate evil never once embraced, on the contrary,
both good and evil and embraces leaves with ease. Is a child into old age, introduce themselves
with all the seriousness possible, but in the end it is childish to himself in many things and
ashamed.

It said that no great big man seemed to his valet, that contains much truth. And it saw the man
closely, you discover the little things that debase. But more things he knows himself that his
valet, and this is still less large their own eyes, for this even in his prime, you need to cover with a veil
of childish that cherishes in his heart.

Children laugh and frolic and gambol, and then moan and rage and cry,
often without knowing why: do not do the same to her as an adult?

To give children a boost of its organization the good or bad state
of health, the provision affects atmospheric pleasant or unpleasant;
disappearing in these cases changes the state of their minds: do not
remember the time before, or think in the next, only governed by the
posters that are currently experiencing.

Does not that same man a thousand times more serious, more serious
and judicious?

§ LI.

Moving D. Nicasio in a few hours.

Don Nicasio is a man of advanced
age, calm and mature trial, full of knowledge, experience, and rarely
carried away from the shock of the moment. Everything weighs in a
healthy balance of reason, and will not let this weight bearing for
a dram passions of any kind. He speaks of a very serious undertaking
for which has its world practice, and his understanding at that particular
kind of business