 

Messengers arrived and were received with great love and courtesy, and were seated at the table
of the chief, whose tubers were reduced to wild thistle roots, which was all maintenance,
and great gift offered them a glass of water, because there was such a shortage, everyone was waiting
for the lucky to get so much fit in the palm of hand a small spring coming out of a cliff.

Two days later, the Christian left, accompanied by the principal chief, with other of their
own, and being in the forest with P. Miguel, turned, and to October 5 arrived at where Fr Zea had
raised the year before the cross.

Was incredible joy and celebration that made those good people, expressing the pleasure they see in their
countries for our missionaries, saying on behalf of all the principal chief, Indian, certainly worthy
of esteem, that despite their greater need, hunger and poverty section had not allowed his people
or his people moved away from being in continuous hope that our people had to go, having sent
several times, and he went on person to record the paths to see if
they looked.

Same was also the joy of P. I saw Miguel and sweats made of P. Zea,
which with so many jobs that had begun to plant a vineyard, and it
rained for fertility of sky abundant blessings.

Then treated with one boss and all the other major, the end of his going to those peoples, which
was the reduction in their land base and keep them asked for which purpose give him free passage
and guidelines for all other peoples, to pick at them which was wealthier for the foundation,
and in particular to those who were closest to the West to the salt flats, where they had informed
the Father had very good places for people, gouache, mountains and
palm trees for stays of cattle, being interested in this also go closer
to the other peoples of the Chiquitos, with the right path and shorter.

"The

chief hearing me (words of the Father Miguel, in the letter to Father Juan Patricio Fernández). Listening
to me the chief of these and other conveniences, gave a cry and sighed, saying:

"- I had to ungrateful and mean, after so many subtleties and estimate that you have made me, if
something you lie and deceive, and deny what you're asking me annoy you, and although ye believe
not me, you the truth, Father, that in all our lands will not find places, and the amenities you
say to found, as the same as you see and recognize in this my people happens in all others,
and even in the rainy season, because of the floods, are some canyons with plenty of water, but
after a few months there are more than mothers dry, without water, so then we spread with our
mob to find what to eat and drink.

"Despite this response, I again urged other reasons more effective
than our Lord inspired me to let me pass even to visit the cacique
of the peoples of the West, giving me guidance and who opened a path
for me to go to the light.

"He replied to this request the chief:

"- I assure you, Father, for
the love I have for you, if you go, you and all your colleagues, perish
of thirst.

"

So much for the P. Michael, who heard this and went aside to commend to our Lord that business.

Then
the chief all the people gathered in the square and heartfelt words rebuked which one of them
had lied and deceived the P. Mission to say he had in their land and such places and facilities
for the foundation, and they said that was very ashamed that had given occasion for the Father judges
that he was deceiving him, denying what they both wanted, and finally sent to all who obey in all
things will Fr Miguel. While he was retired to his ranch, praying to Our Lord who is not frustrated
Reducing this foundation and all the crowd close and committed to his Majesty's resolution which
would in this case.

Later learned through the interpreter, who had been hearing from the
chief secret, the whole reasoning that he had done to his people in
the square.

"With which (continuing the Father in their relationship), I determined to propose if would like
to establish and join for this purpose out of the mountains and the auction of the campaigns of
Japeras of Cucarates, being very sane land for a foundation, but
only in passing registered views and mind (if they came at it) to
register it better to return, bringing some of them with me to see
the sites.

"I called from there to the chief a while and I suggested all this, to go ahead without me, responded
with great jubilation that was great choice, and he'd been and seen all those campaigns, and
that seemed very good and calculated to the end and follow me then with his people and all other
neighboring villages, to not have all zapallares already in bloom and many had already begun to
give, and not sow anything but that ending would put together and convened the all those people,
and would then leave the site I mentioned for the people, and send me one of the main register and
they saw the place for such people, and give them back what has been,
then the road would to that place.

"With that he decided to return after two days because there was no water to drink, and in these
two days I was there, was forced to drink a few puddles that had gathered in a Glen, a league
from the village, a rain that fell, which was more mud than water,
and a they had little collection, rainwater, in a few pumpkins, we
got one, very fine, and sold some corn.

"Shortly after the people were quieted, it was quite dark, came the
chief, accompanied with some old, to ask me sitting next to my tent,
and seat giving a sign of joy and reward, "said the chief:

"- Father,
do not worry, that after the year that has populated the site to point
out to us, go with the people of this my village to the south in three
days of mountain road, to bring and invite Zamucos to another province
(with whom formerly were friends and we broke with them) that are
ten villages in both number and us, and from there back to a day's
journey, that crowns the mountain and begin campaigns is reaches innumerable
crowd to the people who call us from the Spanish.

These wars always with this other Zamucos province, called Ugaroñós (of which there is one in this
town of San Juan, that once came with his parents to the other province, and from there to
the Morotocos, and when was with the Padres, came to see all the crowd, which is the Chaco, and
some towns on one side Guarayos.) Agradecíle very news the chief, who again were thrilled to
add with the place that they had suggested, well adapted to power more easily from there and
soon penetrate to those nations, as the farthest I had come to their land and villages, and
giving me more news in other crowds in different directions, said goodbye to go to rest. "

Thus P. Miguel, who, loving the other day saying goodbye to them, there arose a clamor and tears
of all people, to whom the desire of the holy baptism was not encouraging to see from Missionary Father,
but by giving them word that as soon see them again, it still; and hands raised to heaven, asking
God to give them safe journey and return quickly.

Departed, finally, casting a thousand thanks to those people, so willing
to receive Holy faith, and brought in his company who Zamucos sent
their chief, and recognized the country of Cucarates, went to San
Juan Bautista, where the neophytes received and welcomed to the two
catechumens with extraordinary affection, those treating them with
courtesy and zeal the good of their souls and the love of God dictate
to those who are new to the holy faith.

, Then, arrived back from
the Zamucos the people of San Juan to October 26 of that same year
1718 and then took the news of everything mentioned in this chapter
to the Father Visitor of those missions, Juan Patricio Fernandez,
who attributed to singular mercy God and the merits and sweats to
the Apostolic P. Zea barbarians were so eager of holy baptism, and
so happy and ready to leave their land was then dispatched two Zamucos
brought Fr Miguel de Yegros, with notice to the chief of which was
with all vassals to the lands of Cucarates, because there soon would
break Fr Miguel, brother Alberto Romero.

Who would believe that a work, directed with much work and sweat and with so much happiness, where
it would be great glory to God and the church lot number of the faithful,
is destroyed at a time, and so, so far not been able to reduce, rather
than always you try!

The cause of this new attribute it all to the natural fickleness and instability of Indians,
but if I am against this common sense could add my own particular, I would say it has had
highest cause this unfortunate event, for being the conversion of
souls mainly work God, let Your Majesty many times the human industries,
and the power of the media that we do not take effect for us suspicious
of them attributed to single virtue of his grace those events to be
made prosperous, it would be an easy thing we those to be attributed
to ourselves.

But whatever it is that, left in August 1719 by Fr Miguel de Yegros and brother Alberto, bringing
all message to celebrate Mass and everything else necessary to support the church Reduction of the
new San Ignacio Our father, coming to the campaign that had Zamucos chosen to base it did not
find anyone, and sending some to everywhere take notice of these people, they found his burned
village, and knew that he had withdrawn some days away, beside a lagoon abundant fishing,
closing steps where they could follow.

Decided to go in person in his brother Albert to look up, as he did, and having encountered, remonstrated
with the word they had given to God and want to be Padres Christians
and live together in a village in the place they had chosen and marked.

They

put a good face at first the barbarians and feigned wanting signs of joy be to the promise, and
that signal, they walked with him to the designated site, covering up between both the heart
and its premeditated treachery, and many days were entertained with good words to the brother who
tried, with all the subtleties of his great charity beat wills with benefits. Finally the mask
is removed on day 1. First of October, and dead treacherously twelve Christians, an infamous
chief grabbed the throat to the holy brother and the edge of a heavy baton split his head, then
stripped him savagely, and fear of not to come upon them to avenge
this death the Chiquitos, fled together, without knowing where.

Fr Miguel, warned of this event by two Christians who by good fortune was able to escape the havoc,
he turned with great pain in his heart for not being able to do more, and disclosed by all peoples
the news of the death of the holy brother, he wept inconsolably Indians, who, as a reward for good
deeds that he had received, he held solemn funeral in all its peoples, the quota, and was possible
in their poverty, and I, for finish this chapter, give here a brief
account of his life and virtues, because it is very appropriate herein.

Alberto

Romero was the brother of the Spanish nation and native of Segovia, the son of honest parents and occupation
merchant, well settled, but eager to see land and make more fortune Peru went with other merchants,
hoping to find this fortune equal to his wishes.

Not left their hopes failed because acquired great wealth and was highly esteemed by all; and so the
Royal Court as the Archbishop of Chuquisaca, he rides a lot of businesses committed for public
good, but as is so common in the human things done and get rid at one point, changing face at
every turn of fortune, not last long in a state either prosperous and adverse, being just like
himself, to be always unstable, having Alberto always been our cheerful and supportive, experienced
themselves these moves, because suddenly, I do not know for what reason, if it was not to raise
their desires to the things of heaven, earth sank down to the great machine of its prosperity.

Soon
he lost all that many years, and at the expense of great difficulty
had acquired that was reduced to great poverty, but not without profit,
because this blow turned yes, and seeing an old man, without wealth
or merit earth to heaven, is hurt much of the wrong he had used his
heart to win and buy goods obsolete, without being this time lost
more than a perpetual remorse achieve their bad years.

Therefore decided to give everything to God, the care of his soul and to the things of eternity,
spending, most provident merchant, the rest of his life in the smuggling of goods not subject to removals
and reversals of fortune, which had better achievement when the sailing world booming prosperity.

And
God, which is often more like those who come to work in the vineyard to the final hour than the
first hour of the day to dig into the work, is extremely pleased
their determination, and gave him cash after a fulness of comfort
in his service, garment award for all his merits he was prepared on
earth, and then eternally in heaven.

At that time, some pious Spanish, collected from the residents of
Tarija some alms, sent every year a generous relief to the Christianity
of the Chiquitos and the Missionaries you need to celebrate the Holy
Sacrifice of the Mass and devotion to do with all possible sacred
functions.

With this provision once sent him our Fathers of the College of Tarija, with whom he was familiar,
and then paid that love God very long.

Because considering the fervor and holy life of the new Christian and apostolic labors the evangelical
workers, that live in such work, to them that writes itself St. Paul, were always cheerful and
a mouth with laughter, moved to another man and is vivid inflamed
heart desires to be more intimately with God, and spend his life in
service of this new Christianity, and indeed gave then sampling of
how really said it.

Then stood to teach the Indians all mechanical trades, to clear forests, to work the land and
to manage the plows to cultivate, with the sick, old and disabled, had guts and tenderness of
a mother, there was nothing that they would not do, with the barbarians
who became again, fell apart in the affections of charity, did not
know leave her side, appeared that one wanted to get into the heart,
and barbarians they were, kept Similar demonstrations to do with them,
not looking at them what appeared abroad but the value of their souls,
the Redeemer bought with the price of all his blood.

Not for work both for the souls of their neighbors was neglected in his own, collected many times
to have prayer, at which time the copious tears shed were indications
the consolations with which God comforted his spirit.

And indeed it was very necessary this celestial consort to give courage and encouragement in
the tough and continuing battle with the infernal enemy, which strongly aching like an old fool
and no letters running down the road to the highest perfection and
mocked by removing so many souls in their hands, would not allow him
to pursue the day or night, is already in feis form of animals, and
other visions espantándosele abominable.

This terrible persecution lasted more than three years, but our Alberto, God always attended and
her guardian angel, that if his side was not visibly, at least it
was the invisible operation on his heart, never gave up, nor missed
the usual charities, and took a step backwards in the way of life
he had undertaken.

And perhaps, in this generous award from the record, he lit the living heart desires joining the
Company, he loved very tender, but in view of its great age, it was necessary License our Father
General, which could not be reached so quickly, therefore, partly to console her prayers and
tears, Fr Provincial Vice Luis de la Roca, when he visited those missions, he admitted for
the Donated until the license came from Rome to welcome a brother Coadjutor of the Company,
but the sky more quickly signed him this license, and the Company
triumphantly told the number of those champions who boarded the livery
of Christ with his own blood, rather than here on earth he would tell
the militant in the number of those, who with humble ministries of
state aid for the conversion of souls.

CHAPTER XX

Developments and other reductions increases in the years 1717 and 1718.

Although I have written in these two last chapters, it has happened
in many years and in this time have turned to faith and livestock
to the sky many hundreds of infidels, yet not to confuse the events
and missions of the reductions, I wanted to separate with the intention
of and now turn would report the fervor and merit of the neophytes
of the other lands, deigning Lord God reward your sweats with abundant
harvest of unbelievers to encourage to work more encouragement and
enthusiasm in service of the church.

Christians, therefore, the reduction of San Francisco Xavier Mission
made up of two parts different.

Some ZAMALA went looking for some infidels, who had found the past years and had stopped collecting
for lack Guarayos, where they were welcomed, and although not understood, they made signs to
them and moved some to follow and to receive the holy baptism.

Others Piñocas nation, wanted to go to the Puyzocas, killing at P. Lucas Knight more barely
could get, because the way they entered a village of Cozocas, so suddenly, that sense of the peasants,
who were working in their fields, and People believed to be enemy
to flee were furiously to rid the life of us amounted to some, and
entering the Ranching found it empty, and no living person.

Seen in the Ranchos many shields, feathers woven beautiful colors with lots of art and industry,
they were adorned with cameras where they were piled many bones the dead and pieces of fresh
meat, evidence they were man-eaters.

Walk all dressed up and have the same customs as the Baures and Cosiricas, though use a different
language. Between large and small gathered 36.

Christians in the town of Concepcion was to preach the law of Christ
to the Cosiricas, but no more I took the job.

Two years earlier had gone to their village and brought four for them to see the reductions, where
they were received with great love and kindness.

These two were with the neophytes to bring to his countrymen, who were not admitted With great
affection, because the devil put them in suspicion that they were
Mamalucos or other enemies who had come to make them slaves.

However, sat at the table and presented them some gifts in the country, but there exist for other
Indian lands, encompassed in a half-moon, shooting a storm of arrows
to make them flee, the newborns without do more to repair the shock,
retreated in good order, and half that many were instance the captains
to respond with weapons, beat the part of the best, that imitation
of the Redeemer, unwilling to return evil for evil, three were dead,
the others, abused, returned to the reduction.

San Rafael came by two parties in search of souls, a troop of Taus
won to the faith four and eighty infidels Bacusones nation.

The other, risers, went to the banks of the Paraguay River in search of Curucanes.

When they arrived on the banks of the river when a little boy with
some others, came forward, and discovering a canoe coming toward them,
they hid behind some bushes, thinking he seeking the infidels, but
noting that it was a black man with two Indians, who were fishing,
Chiquito mates shouted: Mamalucos!

Mamalucos! and drove them headlong.

Just saw black Chiquito only when he pointed his musket, but stopped
shooting, because the Indian shouted out loud: Do not kill me, I am
a Christian like you and do not do any harm; and knew that more clearly
showed an image of Our Lady and Child in the arms, which, black, leaving
the musket, adored knees.

Then our neophytes were assembled there in number one hundred and fifty, issued in good order on
the bank.

In the interim came the Captain of the Mamalucos, and calling to one
who understood Chiquito Guarani language, asked who they were and
to what end they went for those costs.

Replied that they were children of our missionaries (this is the phrase that they use with which
reduced them to the faith) and Christians from the village of San Rafael, who were looking for
infidels to lead the guild of the holy mother church.

- For the same reason we look for us, - said the captain Mamaluco, and added in a gesture of
anger:

- Why come here if we have taken and all infidels?

Father asked him then what you instructed and taught the faith and
who came with them.

Said Fr Felipe Suarez, was a priest of his people, but they were alone.

- And, then, - said the Mamaluco - what captains and drivers govern you?

Those with cunning rather than Indians, they responded that their captains were sixty. So returned
to their own, they said Mamaluco:

- Many people have enrolled them, and without speaking again, by playing
to retirement, he embarked with all his men in the canoes, running
to every Vogar, for not coming to blows with such people, and heaven
forbid that Christians and Guarani, a long time now are the terror
of these cruel enemies, they are also reduced to the faith Chiquitos
and civil government.

The newcomers, happy with the good achievement of his cunning, proceeded far some way to that
shore, until they finally found the Curucanes Rancheria, where being
well received, They were all square, kneeling to pray the Rosary of
Our Lady to His Majesty to give those nations trial (sentence explaining
when They pray for themselves or for others to our Lord and the Blessed
Virgin) so that all will embrace God's holy law.
