 Ten. Sounded far Bark and
Jaime thought she recognized the dog Mallorquí Can. Maybe someone over betrayed approaching the
tower. It was about the enemy: it was possible to creep cautiously out of the path, between the branches
of the tamarisk.

He joined, requiring gun, looking for the gun in his belt. As soon as you hear a cry of defiance
or a tremor in the door window was put down, and turning the tower
picked up the enemy from behind.

He spent more time ... Nothing! Febrer wanted to watch the clock, but his hands would not obey
his will. No longer shone in the dark red tip of the cigar. His head had ended up falling on the
pillow, her eyes closed, he heard cries of challenge, shooting, cursing, but this was an abnormal
state, as if I lived in another world, where the insults and attacks not wake up sensitivity.
Then ... nothing: a dense shade, a deep and endless night, without slightest flash of vision
... I woke up a ray of sunlight passing through a crack in the window,
came to take in their eyes.

Daylight reborn with the whiteness of those walls that seemed to sweat during the night the
shadow and the other great mystery of centuries.

Jaime got up happy, and to undo the furniture barricade that blocked the gate, river somewhat
ashamed of his caution, considering almost cowardly. Can women Mallorquí he had been upset with
her fear.

Who would come to pick you up at the tower, knowing that was alert and receive the dead! Ferrer's
absence when he had presented in the forge and quiet of the night gave something to think
about Jaime. Would hurt the Verro? Do you have reached one of their bullets? ...

Spent the morning at sea. Guster uncle took him to the Vedra, praising the way and other merits
of his boat.

The repaired year after year, not staying in it or a sliver of its
original construction.

Fished in the lee of rocks until midafternoon. Returning to the tower, Febrer Chaplain saw
running down the beach waving aloft a white thing.
Before jumping to land when the boat sank his head into the gravel,
the boy yelled with the impatience of those who bring good news:

-
A letter, Chaume gift!

A letter! ... In one corner of the world,
the most extraordinary event that could disturb the ordinary life
was the arrival of a letter. Febrer stirred it in his hands, examining
it as something strange and distant