 Esperanza was like a cherry under the gaze of the young.

- Same - concluded by saying coldly -. All are good friends.

- Are you going home today from my sister? - Mariana said without realizing what was happening.

- Ramon and I'll go: Is not today Saturday?

And you?

- I have no desire to receive. A few days ago I feel a little discomfort
in the throat.

- Do not say you're sick, Mom.

Say that you like better go to bed early - said Esperancita with bad humor.

The mother looked at her with big eyes, dull.

- I have a sore throat, girl.

- What a coincidence! - Said it in ironic twang -. I have not heard it until now.

- If you feel like going - said Mariana finishing guess - you take your dad.

- You know that Dad, not leaving you, not come out.

Esperanza's tone revealed spite. Through the eyes of Ramon spent a flash of joy legitimate and a look
of triumph to his friend Pepe. She showed like going from he knew that he would attend as well.

The
conversation began shooting on public areas, stopping with a predilection in most common of all
in court, or on Real theater artists. It spoke of the beauty of Tosti. Ramon, touched by the victory
he had gained, he wanted to deny it; cursed tall women, and especially the blondes. He did
not like more than the rates skinned, round-faced, of medium height and dark-eyed (well, that
of Esperanza; needed was not named). Your friend Pepe, alarmed by the relief that looked at first
with all the plans that they had agreed siege, he made a lot of hidden
winks until he got to bring it on track.

But he did so badly, that is, began to contradict in a way so pitiful that the ladies did notice
right away. Were stunned and made a mess, which could not go out
without a coat that very time he threw his friend and teacher.

To repair a bit of awkwardness began to tell what had happened the previous day at City Hall,
with such details, which soon Mariana yawning like a blessed it was,
and Ms Hope became involved in embroidery and showed signs of thinking
about things very different.

Esperancita ended up making a sign to Castro to approach. This was due moving to a seat near
her.

- Hey, Joe - the girl said softly, shaking -.

Recently I've seen you get me seriously.

I do not know whether I said something that might annoy.

If so, forgive me.

- Do not know what you allude.

I do not bother anything can you tell me a girl so pretty and as
nice as you - said the young man with his beautiful smile Sultan.

-
I'm glad it was only apprehension .... Thank you very much for the
flowers, if you feel them, which I doubt .... I hurt in my soul cause
you an upset ....

Saying these last words, she blushed to the ears.

-
Well I have news that you are fond of giving.

- Oh, no!

- So says
my friend Ramon.

Esperanza's face darkened when he heard this name.

A severe wrinkle across her forehead virginal.

- I do not know why he says.

- Is not no remorse you conscience?

- Not a bit.

- Oh, what a heart so emperdenido!

- Why?

If you have provided any penalty will be that he must have provoked it.

- That's what I said I .... But in the end, I think the patient is already on the way to recovery
and that there will be more available to their darts .... I see a lot more fun to be around a few
days for this part.

Castro worked sincerely and in good faith by his friend.

- I am very glad that was the case - said the girl with perfect naturalness.

Castro made an impassioned defense of his friend recommended it to all practical effect of
benevolence Hope. But when you pour it into the ear of some exaggerated words of praise, the
tone dismissive of the pronounced and not smirk fell from his lips, refute enough. While this
was not the daughter of Calderón any, received with the same hostility.

- Come on, Pepe, you feel like rag!

- That yes, Esperanza, yes! Ramon has a great future and it would be difficult to time you see a
minister.

The council, meanwhile, explained with the fluidity that characterized him, and Ms Mariana Hope,
how he had discovered a fraud of consideration on the rights of consumption. Three hundred and
fifty hams had been introduced a few days ago, with the consent of matute some employees of the municipality.
Ramon thought to bring these employees to the bar very short term. Mariana begged him not be too severe
with them would be such Once parents. But he could not soften. Undoubtedly, the principles
of justice City were most adamant that their neck muscles, judging by the countless of times
he turned his head toward the spot where Pepe Esperancita and chatted. Was not jealous. He had full
confidence in the loyalty of his friend. But he liked her adored him listen when he pronounced the
sentence: "the bar", "I think opinion in the wrong direction" "Municipal law requires appraisals,
etc.., So that the angel of love is out penetrating the high destinies that luck had it reserved
so joining a man strong and as administrative. All those speeches aloud, they were just a continuous
invitation to tender once entered "in the realm of formality."

Steps were heard in this next room, and a cough that those present knew admirably. Ms Hope,
to hear, delivered in haste, rather, showed the work that had hand in the lap of her daughter.
When Calderon came, Mariana embroidered with affected application while his mother stood hand
over hand, as if he long time that would be in that position. Ramon and Castro barely set
at the maneuver. The reason for it was that Calderon did not forgive his wife, apathy, laziness,
judging these vices as true calamities often considered unlucky for a woman to have joined so
lazy. Not that it mattered little work, much at home, but his temperament worker indefatigable
revealed in the presence of another so diametrically opposite. Slack, the Mariana abandonment
clenched his nerves, gave rise to bitter quarrels and answers frequent. She lightly defended.
He alleged that his parents had raised for laborer, because it had
sufficient means to live as a lady.

D. This Julian is furious even more, shouting that everyone has the duty to work, at least do something.
The complete idleness is incomprehensible. The woman is obliged to care for is not wasted household
finances because it does not help foster that, and so on., etc. In short, the cause of domestic
trouble was this hopeless laziness of Madame. Ms Hope was very different from her daughter.
Temperament active, vigilant, or more so greedy that his son, no could never be a quarter of an hour
without something in hand. In the internal affairs the house was not very marked intervention.
Calderón was pleased to order it and handle it everything itself.

And that means a contradiction that we must draw attention to that fully understand his character.
He complained bitterly that his wife did not serve to bring the housekeeping, because he was
forced to take care of him, and yet, knowing his mother served very well for that matter, would
not give it. This makes one suspect that but Mariana was a prodigy of activity and order, would
not agree not to leave the affairs of the outside indoors. His character and sordid suspicious did
you always prefer work to rest. I wish I had a hundred eyes for them all on the objects of their
membership.

Doña Esperanza also deplored the character of his daughter went very according to the meanness
of his son, helping not a little in home monitoring. But though often blame it for their apathy, as
he had finally emerged from her womb, hurt Calderon Doing so strongly felt the marital quarrels.
So I always avoided them if I could be at the expense of a sacrifice, covering the faults of
Mariana, making herself voluntarily guilty of them. This was the reason for having given so quickly
that it was pad embroidering.

D. Julian came in with a book in hand, it was not the Journal or the Mayor, or the copier letters,
but the serial smoothly correspondence, I used to cut with great care and then stitched. Oddly, D.
Julian was fond of novels, but read nothing that correspondence,
the pious gave his daughter in school.

Of its own accord had not ever entered a bookstore to buy some. Not only was fond read them,
but what is even more rare, is softened significantly with them.

Because he kept on his chest a large pool of sensitivity. It was a weakness of his body, as
well as the asthma and rheumatism.

The misfortunes of others, poverty, extreme pity him. If could be remedied in any other way
that was not with money, make sure that disappear immediately. Traits of generosity made him
mourn with enthusiasm, but was judged, and with good reason, unable
to carry them out.

Still made a supreme effort for violating nature.

In fact, it was no less rich beggars who had in Madrid. Had a fixed amount to the poor and
I kept track in his books as if they were creditors. Having exhausted the monthly amount, we
believe that if he saw starving in the street to a creep, not socorrería a penny, not a lack
of sensitivity but by deep roots in his heart that had the numbers.

The idea of ??discarding something endorsed by other means of disposal that was not the sale
was for him almost incomprehensible. His charity had merit so much higher than others.

When he entered the sewing manifested in the face signs of being shaken. After saying goodbye
to the strangers, uttered by sitting in a chair:

- I just read this novel, a beautiful chapter ... Beautiful! ... I could not resist venírselo
temptation to read them ....

Stopped because no one dared to propose to Ramon Castro and, although
he wished.

Was very fond of reading aloud, through what medium did.

Mariana was pleased hear a lot in reading. So, on this side, the marriage was fine.

- Read it, man .... I think Pepe and Ramon not mind - it said.

Castro made a slight sign of acquiescence, Ramon was quick to express
with gestures extremes that would be a great pleasure ... he was very
fond of beautiful chapters etc. Few thanks!

Coming from the father of his beloved, would be able to listen carefully
reading the table of logarithms.

D. Julian put on his glasses and began to read, with a white ruff
voice that was quiet for these occasions, a chapter that described
the suffering of a lost child on the streets of Paris.

Instantly began to arrasársele alterársele eyes and voice.

He concluded by anudársele in such a way that barely understand him.

Ramon found himself needed to take the file and continue reading
to the end.

Castro, in the presence of those ridiculous, man hid his smile behind big top puffs of smoke.

Completed
Chapter and discussed in terms most flattering to all present, Mariana turned his eyes toward
his work. He noted that would be needed a piece of silk backing, as it was nearing completion.
Ms Hope, who reported this thought, was of the same opinion.

- Ramon
- said the first - do me the favor of pressing that button.

The councilman was quick to fulfill the mandate. After a moment the maiden the lady.

- You must go out and buy a yard of silk - it said.

The home, after learning the peculiarities of the commission, prepared to leave to comply.
D. Julian, who had listened attentively, stopped her with a gesture.

- Aguárdese a moment .... I'll see if by chance do I have what they need.

And he went briskly from the room. It did not take three minutes to come back with an old umbrella
hands.

- See if you can serve this silk umbrella - said -. I think it's the same color ....

Maldonado Castro and exchanged a meaningful glance.

Mariana took him blushing.

- Indeed, it is the same color ... but it is all chopped .... Does
not work.

Esperancita pretending to be engrossed in their work, but his face like a peony. Only Ms Hope
took the matter seriously and discussed it. Was finally discarded with distaste the banker,
who was muttering some unflattering statements about the order and
economy women.

Ramon could not suffer more punishment of Tantalus that make the experience of his friend condemned.
She kept looking toward the place where he chatted and Esperanza. Began to rise from his chair with
a pretext to stretch my legs a bit and gave a few rides.

Was slowly coming to them, concluded a halt in front.

- Hello, Hope .... How long have not seen her friend Pacita?

What excuse to stop so gross! He himself understood this, and blushed as he said these words.
Castro gave him a withering look, but either did not see, or pretended not seen. Esperanza
frowned and replied curtly that he did not remember to accuracy.

This would be enough for anyone to be given by a warning. Ramon was not made. Tried before extend
the conversation with phrases absurd or pointless.

Even had attempts at grasping a chair and sit next to them, but was prevented by giving Castro,
neglect, a fierce and expressive in the calluses stomp him back in
their agreement.

He continued, therefore, your ride melancholy and quickly sit down again with his future mother
and grandmother.

Soon was engaged in a lively discussion with Calderon on whether
the paving of the streets had to be done by contract or by administration.

Would have gladly given. His interest was to do so, because in the end it was the man whose hand
was his happiness or Unfortunately, but that stubborn and mischievous
temperament which nature disputón endow him, drew him to continue,
but he saw his father on and about to get angry.

Fortunately for him, before he reached this point, appeared in the
room a servant.

- What, Remigio? - Asked the banker.

- Just get
a friend of Brown, the driver of the lords of Mudela, and he said
that Leandro the gentleman was a little sick ....

- Sure!

What had to happen to that boy! ... Not accustomed to such revelry.

All life on the college or attached to the skirts of his mother.

Suddenly you bring to this life busy .... What is it about?

Leandro was a nephew of D. Julian, the son of a sister who lived in La Mancha. There come to spend
a season in Madrid and spent happily together with other boys the
same age.

For some field trip had asked his uncle's carriage.

This, by not to offend your sister who by reason of interest was
bound to observe considerations he had been granted, albeit with great
pain in his heart.

- I think it has hurt the sun and the food ....

-
Well, indigestion .... That will happen soon.

- I think you should
go there, Julian - said Mariana.

- If it becomes necessary, of course
I would.

But now I see .... Say you, Remigio, can not move here?

Have you stayed in bed?

- That's the case, sir - said the man twirling the cap and lowering
eyes if afraid to give a very serious news -.

The point is that one of the mares, the Primitive is foundered.

Calderón turned pale.

- But can not come?

- No, sir, is quite Malita, says the driver of Mudela .... Sure! how
those guys do not understand, have had enough water ....

D. Julian
rose prey of violent agitation, and without a word left the room Remigio
followed.

Ramon Castro and changed again a glance and a smile. Esperancita surprised them and blushed.

-
Dad takes to heart what these things!

- I could not take it, girl! - Said Ms Hope irritated voice -.

A log that has cost fifteen thousand pesetas .... Well I say if it
is a grace Leandrito!

And continued good time venting his fury, almost as big as his son. Ramon Castro rose at last
to leave. Mariana, who had taken very philosophy unfortunately invited them to eat.

- Stay you .... Gone are the time of ride.

- I can not - said Castro -.

Today, as in his brother's house.

- Ah! indeed it's Saturday, I do not remember. We will go (if I'm not worse) at ten when the triplet.

-
Do you eat every Saturday at Aunt Clementina? - He asked in a low Esperancita inflected strange.

The
dandy glanced at it.

- Almost everyone at home of his uncle Thomas.

- Aunt Clementina is very pretty and very friendly.

- This reputation has - said Castro a little uneasy now.

- Has many admirers. Are not you one of the enthusiasts?

- Who has told you?

- No, I suppose.

- Have you guessed well. His aunt is, in my opinion, one of the most beautiful and distinguished
ladies Madrid .... Well, until another time, Esperanza.

And he held out his hand with a dismissive air that struck the girl. The latter was manifested
despite calling Ramon, who was standing a bit away.

- And you, Ramon, why do not you stay? Do you eat well at Aunt Clementina?

- No: I do not ....

- Well, you stay, man. And trying not to get bored.

- I get bored at your side! - Said the council, almost faint with pleasure.

- Nothing, nothing, it definitely is not it? Pepe him go because he has other commitments.

Ramon would say yes with all the fervor of his soul, but above the head the girl, Castro began
to make negative signs, with such force that the poor said muffled voice

- No ... I can not either ....

- Why, Ramon?

--... Because ... I have to do.

- Well I'm sorry.

The council was so moved that he could barely mutter a few words of thanks. Left of stay almost
dragged. Once in the street, Pepe congratulated him warmly and told him strongly that this would
work. But he welcomed the congratulations with marked coldness. Persisted in silence to his house
where his friend and teacher left the full order head of grim foreboding and sadder than the
night.

VII

# Eating and sitting at home Osorio.

#

The day after having gone to the house of Raymond, Clementina was more embarrassed and regretful having
done that at the time downstairs. Proud beings feel remorse for an action that in his opinion
has humiliated them, as the righteous when they have failed to humility. Inside confessed that
he had given a false step. The serenity and courtesy of the boy, while it rose in his eyes,
irritated his pride. What comments would not have made him and his sister after that ridiculous
and untimely guest! When thinking it is the color rose to her face.
Not to see or be seen from the viewpoint of Alcazar, stopped going
out on foot. The young man keep his promise: he found no trace of
him anywhere.

But without knowing what causes the image of it floated
continually before their eyes, often came to mind. Was it dislikes?
Why resentment? Clementina could not in good faith affirming. His
former persecutor had nothing in the figure or in the treatment Doing
so abhorrent. Would, on the contrary, he had too favorably impressed
his presence? Neither. I saw many young people every day in society
more perky and pleasant conversation. So, the surprise as much as
irritated found him in mind. It never ceased to protest inwardly against
this involuntary inclination, and angry with herself. After few days
after the scene told an afternoon decidióse out on foot. Failure to
do so cowardice seemed to him, give honor to that little boy too.
When passed near home looked up and saw him as always veranda with
a book in hand. Underthe instantly and seriously crossed long and
straight. But a few steps felt vague discomfort as if you are not
satisfied with herself. The truth is that not even say hello or have
not expected the greeting of the young, had not been well done after
his frank explanations and kindness that she had used to show the
rich collection of butterflies and provide him finely.

Next day he
went by foot and realized the injustice of the previous sticking to
peer sight in the upper lookout. Raymond sent a greeting and a smile
as friendly as innocent, the beautiful lady was flattered. He could
not hide the fact that this young man was singular sweetness eyes,
which made him very likeable, and your conversation, if not full of
pleasantries, showed understanding and firmness of spirit worship.
These observations should make them in due time, but did not for reasons
that we ignore. From this day started out as before. When crossing
in front of the house Raymond's never failed to send her nap friendly
to the lookout, from which he responded with genuine warmth. And as
were passing day, the greeting was becoming more expressive. Without
speaking a word seems to be established trust between them.

Clementina
did not try to analyze the feeling he felt for the young Alcázar.
Was little fond look inside. I thought vaguely that was a charity
showing courteous to him. "Poor fellow - you said -. I adored his
mother! And how happy she had being a child so good and loving! "One
evening, when you took over a month of these greetings, he asked Pepe
Castro

- Hear: has stopped following you and that blond boy of yore?

Clementina
felt a strange thrill: got slightly red without knowing herself why.

-
Yes ... ago and at least a month since I've seen.

Why lie? Castro
was so far from thinking that between that unknown tracker and his
beloved mediate any relationship, did not notice the blush. Then went
to something else with indifference. But for our lady, shaking and
that that singular warmth in cheeks was a revelation vague in his
mind what befell. The first specific evidence of this revelation was
that he left the house of her lover, instead of going thought in it,
reflected that too faithfully fulfilled Alcázar not followed his word.
The second was that to stop at a jewelry shop window and see a brilliant
must-see figure butterfly, it was said that some of those he had seen
at her blonde friend were much more beautiful and bright. The third
was purchased to enter the house of Fe to buy some novels French.
It occurred to see so many books, her lover Pepe Castro had not read
any of them, nor read probably. Before, it was funny this ignorance
was now ridiculous.

Days passed. Mrs. Osorio, weary of the fashionable
life, having exhausted all the emotions that features a lady distinguished
for her beauty and wealth, would it please extreme in that innocent
greeting almost every day changed the young man's viewpoint. One evening,
having dropped the car in Retirement walk a few laps, ran with Alcazar
and his sister in a street tree. He led a salute very expressive.
Raymond responded with the same affectionate respect as always, but
noted that Clementina she did so with marked coldness. This worried
her and put her in a bad mood all day, more than ever wanted to confess
that the cause of your discomfort and it was melancholy