 

The Holy Child of Cebu, an image that left in that city co-Magallanes, resorted the Cebuanos, before
converting to Catholicism, to ask for rain, "leading him in procession to the beach and by putting
in the water, so getting the rain that had need "(Ninth the Most Holy Name of Jesus, Malabon,
1895, pg. 11). However, the immersion in water the sea, was a resource that could be called
extreme cases, it reads a line from this novena:

                "If anything failed to water
                because you prayed, the sea,
                O Child, you bore, and the waters
                I got: and water and asked,
                gave your love. "(p. 29.)

The
                best known miracles made by the Santo Niño took place from 1618 to
1675, from then it is logged in the Ninth none memorable.

However, the Ninth affirms that miracles the "continuously make Santo Niño" (p. 15) and "turn
it all the Visayas Bohol, Cebu, Leyte, Samar, Mindanao and many Tagalog to kiss his sacred feet, and
venerate and entrust their needs and misfortunes requesting relief in sickness, help in navigation
and protection in all the events of life "(pp. 15-16).

Safety in the ninth desired effect is complete in regard to San Roque
"The exercise of this Novena, says (p. 3, Ninth, Manila, 1910), gives
the average force to achieve this glorious saint of God that we ."--"

To get rid of fever * * * which has its origin in the corruption of the air * * * San Roque
to have to go with fervent prayers * * * "(p. 3). Next to the corpse of the Saint was found
a letter that it is written by God, saying: "Those who hurt fever, implore the favor of Roque
achieve health "(p. 5). The intervention of San Roque is only for Catholics; who makes his ninth
says the following: "I beseech you that by the merits of this glorious Holy libréis us, to all
who attended this cult and to all Catholics in your Kingdom of Spain and the Islands, all pestilent
disease that can take our lives " (P. 13). As there are here including the U.S. Catholic, the Bureau
of Health must remember that such citizens with non-Catholics who live the Philippines do not
enjoy antipestífera protection of San Roque.

Superstition and crime

In his remarkable study of criminal anthropology in the Philippines,
says Dr. Sixto de Los Angeles (p. 119): "The easy credulity fostered
by the overcultivation of religious fanaticism, has constituted from
the beginning until the present one of the flaws, unfortunately quite
still widespread among the natives of the country * * *.

Lover of their traditions and habits inherited and lack of sufficient
opportunities to acquire knowledge, the Filipino populace must hold,
as is logical and natural, their beliefs, which, not requiring any
effort for comprehension, are worsening and are rooted in a spontaneous
way in his mind.

As evidenced by our judicial annals, superstition holds a significant category between the
factors of crime in the country. "Superstitions referred to by Dr. LA not just those of the old paganism
of Filipino missionaries after more than three centuries, have failed to completely destroy. Superstitions
referred in this conference are those brought by those missionaries who have been easily to intrude
on the Philippines, naturally willing credulity, by effective propaganda and generously spread
on the ninth and other booklets called of devotion.

As to the arrival of American education in the Philippines was always and exclusively religious,
and directed by Roman priests, the persistence of ancient superstitions are a demonstration of the
failure of religious education. Missionaries would have an excuse blame the rude filipino invincible,
we could admit courtesy and to avoid discussions. But the trouble is not that they could not remove
some of the supposed hard head Indian, but the tremendous wealth of superstitions that for
more than three centuries, these missionaries have the same penetrating head injury so severe
in their minds and morals.

Unwillingness

The sinner unwillingness to restrain their evil deeds said to Jesus, washing hands in divine intervention
and testifying to the lack of sense of responsibility, "Is possible, sweetest Saviour of souls,
making so many every day, only to loss mine you have to prove insensitive? "(p. 13.) This is
part of a compound sentence none other than the Pope Gregory VII in its Practice Devoted to the Passion
of Christ (Manila, 1905).

It is also said to the Virgin: "Cleanse, Virgin Immaculate, my heart from all sin, and let down
me everything that displeases your eyes purest. Purge my soul of love and affected areas. "(pp.
10-11; Franciscan Crown - the Virgin Mary. Manila, 1902.)

By the intercession of San Francisco the devotee asks God: "I hold in all my disordered passions,
powers and senses, "so that"

I can reduce my thoughts, my words to measure and direct my work to the greatest perfection,
"and" Thou wouldst soften the hardness of my heart. " (Pp. 18, 20 and 21 of the novena to
St. Francis of Assisi. Manila, 1899.)

Afraid of the machinations of Satan, devoted to St. Philomena asks (p. 23, Nov.) "You reach the Lord
who break more and more the forces of my enemies, the demons, and to save me despite myself. "

Invoke
the aid of Santa Filomena saying (p. 25, Nov.): "Make me chaste is
also, In my state, and my mouth utters not any words that according
to St. Paul, should not be named among the faithful.

"

A Santa Ana, mother of Mary, tells his devotee: "Interesaos therefore
Santa mine, so I grant patience in my adversity, tolerance injuries,
and around a tranquil mood * * * (IX, pg.

1, Manila, 1893). It is also runs the following plea, "Empeñaos therefore Santa mine, with your
sacred grandson Jesus to be removed from our hearts all disaffected and ill will for God's sake
forgive all injuries * * *. "

It is possible to cultivate a sense of dignity or respect for himself when spread doctrines such
as those resulting from the following examples, the ninth of Santa Rosa de Lima:

"Taken from his humility, was a maid stepped lips," (p. 10).

"I loved most the scorn than worldly honors * * *. "(p. 102), and" wanted to so effectively the
others were the vilest thing in the world, who claimed he deserved
to be in hell and that was his own place for their sins.

If anyone showed not believe it and that was acquit, Nobody knows me, he added, I only know
what I am "(p. 11)." Hearing after the praise of virtue, it was felt as a faint "(p. 11).

In a prayer to Santa Filomena (Ninth, pg. 16) is said to Santa, asking for their protection:
"My sins I have become a little lower than the angels, much lower than the beasts, as they do
not forget his master's crib, and so appreciate their food and I've
forgotten God's house * * *.

" It is not only self-contempt which is of such considerations, but the lack of logic in attributing
to the gratitude of the animals returned to his master's crib, when it is clear that the motive
that drives them is simply hunger.

The wrath of God

Natural phenomena are regarded as manifestations of ignorance of divine
wrath, which not come to occur if someone, in humanity, not caused
by his conduct.

St. Thomas Aquinas, who is rightly regarded as the scientific man of his time firmly believed
that thunder, lightning and storms were only manifestations punitive God's anger against men. "In
his fear of God, was born in the Holy Doctor a kind of fear of thunder and storms, with that as
a reverent son, feared to see angry Father's face, fearing those storms were not caused by his
sins. "(Military Angelica, Manila, 1907, pg. 21.)

Fear Blind Thomas made him conceive a blind justice of the Divine because of God guilt triggered a
lightning storm and lavished naturally hurt and annoyed a large number
of people suffering because of the sins of the Holy.

For the simple believer when the Holy wise thought and thought so, there is no reason to reject
explanation, much less suspecting it fair to punish sinners is not work of justice or even common
sense.

Lack of logic

The logical mind can not develop when it promotes and cultivates the
absurd, mainly when you have covered with the false veneer of religion,
when based on superstition of a wholly childish and simple.

In the life of San Vicente Ferrer, printed in the ninth, relate the
following miracles and there is no doubt that whoever believes in
them, can not grow in any way the functions of his intelligence.

"In Valencia, a servant of the Earl of Faure, who was born deaf and
without a tongue, was so many years and one day to worship the relic
of San Vicente, cured of deafness, language was born and spoke on
"(p. 17).

"A woman gave birth to a piece of meat without human figure.

Offered him to St. Vincent by say a mass, and the Epistle and had the head, arms to the Gospel,
to embody legs and finally found a beautiful child. The same thing happened to another lady
of Toledo "(p. 34).

"In Lisbon, a lady lived run for being so ugly, it was the laughter of the saw. Went St. Vincent
and awoke one morning very beautiful and graceful, that was so devout
San Vicente Lisbon ladies that do not exceed those of Valencia "(p.
37).

"A merchant went to a show and in the meantime his wife committed a vulnerability as was * * *.
Sorry was instructed to San Vicente and Santo came back to the path where the husband with
a horse, getting there to scare them by means of a layer and scattered. Then her husband lost
his time to gather their horses, so when it came to home because his wife had time out of your
care, getting rid of the consequences lack thereof. "This refers to the most natural immoral
and grotesque, it leaves without reason or cause punished the innocent
husband and the Holy run with a mischievous layer only worthy of a
rogue stream.

San Ramon is said that taking such an interest in the misfortunes and sorrows of his devotees
and is so extremely compassionate "who have sweated their images by the distress of the devotees"
(p. 12).

"A picture so obviously the Holy sweat while his devoted suffered, that the veil is stained
to be covered, and some soaked in sweat pañolitos wonderfully relieved pain head "(p. 21).

San Roque has the power to prevent the spread of epidemics.

"Its protection is the preserve us from the plague and many other ailments, which have their
origin in corruption air that we had to preserve life, kills us "(p. 3).

The height of absurdity

Is it possible to invent and involve greater absurdities that mentioned
here?

No But not to lengthen this conference presented only a small number of cases cited in abundance
in these little pamphlets distributed extensively in our people. What logic, we can reasonably
expect from brain nourished with such absurd nonsense fed so childish
nature is not understood that men have been told by a simple sense
common?

"The mattress in San Vicente died kept under miracles, as lying in him on several occasions
more than 400 patients of different accidents, all managed health " (P. 32).

Once San Antonio de Padua was preaching at the beach, thought that "out of the water fish who
heard him preach and attentive. "No devotee questioned the output of fish nor interested in solving
problems in physics, physiology, linguistics and mainly logic of such an event, but it says the novena
to Santo (P. 20).

Unnecessarily prolong this conference if I mentioned all the absurdities entered Novenas in which
I have a large body which is a positive documentation very useful for the history of the superstition
that only deflowering here. With that said there is enough to explain the origin of immorality,
the real cause of the predisposition to addiction, the absence of
a sense of responsibility, the natural explanation of the incomprehensibility
composed of a mixture of feelings that the missionaries have been
attributed to filipino, Indian, Spanish and Chinese, all influenced
by the malicious spirit that informs all that literature completely
disruptive of reason.

She and non-secular education is responsible phenomenon.

I do not come formulating theories and hypotheses emit capricious. Before an audience like the one
I have the honor of speaking, I need to weigh the value of my words and my judgments. For this
reason I brought facts, repeating texts I have quoted the words, not secular literature Corridos
constituted by the anonymous whose harmful influence is well known,
but the authentic texts of novenas authorized by ecclesiastical censure
for failing to contain anything contrary to sound morality, as stated
in the license to print.

Not for a moment I tried to mix religion in my criticism, nor is it in my hands change the
consequences that follow from the facts mentioned in the ninth, which
is the literature responsible for a state of childish mentality, quite
inadequate for moral intelligence, composed of elements, crippling
and not progress.

Morality is nothing more than the victory over himself whereby a man does what he must and not what
you want. In the immoral man there is no struggle between two tendencies, one toward evil another
to the right. There is only an instinctive tendency: no brakes rational object. What self-control
who has to curb his habit and utter dirty words and obscene uses the intervention of a saint?
Lack of will, devoid of the idea same control himself, how can triumph over himself? Plaything
of his passions, seemed that the only thing that could keep him was the punishment in the afterlife,
but that fear not worried, because while he is threatened with eternal
fire, is told how can avoid it, not to do evil.

The immorality of the ninth

These contain a teaching ninth fatal to the society whose moral foundation is in the development
of individual conditions such as work, compliance duty, respect for the law, fighting against
their own instincts and passions that requires prior of all the self-control. Not only are
not taught or even mentioned these social obligations, but also encourages all the wrong ensuring
criminal, a sinner, that will be forgiven, which may escape punishment,
that evil act and guilty that that is, without effort, as naturally
and easily get what it wants and prevail on earth, as in the afterlife.

On

one hand it scares the individual with the genius of evil, always pushing for the road of vice
and shame: the other is putting blind trust inspired by an Angel Guard that does not leave him
night and day, he says, leads him, "their intervention so useful that adjust what we were asking God
when you know that our requests are bring us some evil soul or body. "

What justice can be conceived idea who remembers the spectacle he witnessed the gentleman Cuzco in
the cemetery? Not only is presented to Mary and Joseph to intercede with all energy for the salvation
of the evil for no reason invoked their names, but neither are moved tested or even soften the cruelty
of Jesus Christ when sudden death sentence and eternal damnation to the two unfortunate women
of evil life