 Any reference to annoyed
him extremely rich. On the contrary, Salabert liked to give in face his millions and represent
the Nabob, of course, to the lowest possible cost.

- In addition - he went with a bad mood - everybody look at what goes in, but no serving what
emerges. The expenses you have are increasing.

Do not know what I spent this year, will we see?

- Not much - said the duke, smiling contemptuously.

- Not much? Then spend seventy-five thousand dollars, and we're still in November.

- What? - Said the Duke with deep surprise -.

No way.

- You heard me.

- Go, go, do not put me finger on the eyes, Julian .... Unless in those seventy five thousand
dollars are including the cost of the house you are making in the Oven Mata.

- Well, naturally.

At Duke he was seized with such a blow to hear this laughter, he almost
drowns.

Cayósele smoking. The face, usually purple, now that was scary. The fit of coughing that came,
accompanying laughter was so intense, that it seemed to subside dam congestion.

- Man, it's funny! Grace has a lot of that! - Said after the flows between laugh and cough -. I
had not happened so far .... From here on out will include in the cost of my house all purchases
of securities and all that builds homes. I will appear spending more than a king.

The so frank and loud laughter of the Duke ran extremely upset and Calderon.

- Do not know what is that laugh .... If you leave the box, on the expenditure side is .... All However,
Antonio else knows the crazy in your house that the sane on others.

The duke, in some time now, often visits his friend and companion. Began to make the thread
to lure the business of river mines. Approaching the time that the auction was to be effected.
Then needed to have some shareholders consideration. D. Julian was, both representing the
capital, for his character same. Enjoyed in the business world fame cautious of suspicious better.
So that the fact of taking part in any speculation of security clearances,
and this was what Salabert needed.

He would not bother, then, very hard and changed the conversation. With great flexibility, with
the refinement it had under its rough bark, he knew put in a good temper praising his foresight
in a failed business where it was left to catch, skinning other tacitly recognizing enemies
and merchants on their superior talent and penetration. When I had it fretted, spoke to him for
the third or fourth time, in vague terms, business mine.

Ofrecíalo as an inaccessible ideal to put him in appetite. If one day off possible to buy the mine,
what a great business!

She had never known a lighter in his life.

The worse was that the Government was not prepared to let go. However, f. .., with a little skills
and working well, perhaps over time .... Necesitábanse then some
men who had no objection to a good capital investment.

If not was in Spain, go abroad to look ....

Calderón, to hear about
a business, such as snails cringed when touched.

That of was so fat now, for the undecided data supplied him with
the Duke, who was forced to getting hit in the shell.

So Salabert began to specify a little, stood grim and dark, showed
himself wary and restless, as if he were then to demand the same amount
exorbitant.

When he had finished his long speech, a bit incoherent, that seemed
more like a monologue, Duke rose sharply.

- Well, Julianito, I'm
outta here to the Bank.

At the same time took out another cigarette from the flask, and without
offering, because he did not smoke, lit by formula, then let them
go off at once for biting.

D. Julian breathed with satisfaction.

- You always this hectic activity! - Said, smiling and extending his
hand.

- Always follow the money!

When I was about to transpose the door, he remembered that Calderón
could use this visit.

- Hey, Antonio: I have a lot of london there
.... Do you?

I give you cheap.

- I do not need now. How do you yield?

- Forty-seven.

- Do many?

- Eight thousand pounds in all.

- Sorry
I did not need them.

It's a good time. Goodbye.

Trasladóse the Bank, attended the meeting, and after nine thousand
dollars effective heel Urreta out with his friend, another famous
bankers of Madrid.

Arriving near of the Puerta del Sol, shook hands in farewell.

- Where are you going? - Asked Salabert.

- I go from here to Calderon's house to see if you can give me London.

- It is useless to the ride - said sharply the first -. All that was just me taking them.

- Man, sorry. How about how he has?

- Forty-six, ten.

- They are not cheap, but I badly needed and yet the take.

- Do you
make you miss it? - Salabert said while throwing his arm over shoulders.

-
Really.

- Well I'll be your Providence.

How much do you need?

- Pretty. Ten thousand pounds at least.

- I can not much, but for eight thousand, you can send this afternoon.

Urreta's face lit up with a grateful smile.

- Man, I can not afford! ... You will be short too ....

- Not as much as you .... But even if .... You know that he loves. Are you the only talented Gipuzkoa
have stumbled so far.

At the same time as you take hugged, gave affectionate pat on the shoulder. Estrecháronse hand
again, and after Urreta burst into phrases of gratitude, to which answer Salabert in that tone
campechanote sharp and both enhances the merit of any service, goodbye.

The

Duke immediately took a cab.

- A la calle de San Felipe Neri, number ....

- Okay, Duke - answered
the coachman.

He raised his head to look at him the hero.

- Hello! Do you know me?

And without waiting for the answer he got in and closed the door.

- Julian .... Julian - shouted to his friend before opening the desktop screen -. I come to make a
favor .... How lucky you, damn you! Send me those London home.

- Welcome - cried the banker with triumphant smile -. Do you need?

- If, f. ..., yeah! I've always needed me to do what you should you drop .... Goodbye ....

And without going into the office vacated the screen that had held spring and left. Gave signs the
driver of a hotel in the neighborhood Monastery and leaned at an angle, biting and puffing
his cigar with evident satisfaction. Experimentóla our banker after committing this rascality,
after stripping to his friend a few Calderón pesetas, as the just concluded an act of justice
or charity.

His imagination, always alert for cases where there was money, wandered, as the carriage drove
him to the Hippodrome the various businesses through that was committed, but most notably stopped
mine in the rivers. The combination of Llera seemed to him getting better. However, had its weaknesses.
To reinforce the thinking was applied until the car stopped at the gate of a small hotel cheap
to build, with very ornate plaster and wood that made him resemble the works of confectionery.

Hastened
the doorman to open with compliance. Saved in three steps the tiny garden. Al climb the few stairs
on the ground floor out the door a young maid.

- Hello, Petra: What about your love?

- Sleep yet, Duke.

- Well, are the twelve - she pulled her stopwatch -.

I'm going up anyway.

And passing in front of her, entered the octagonal antesalita. Despojóse the overcoat that got
home and was responsible for hanging. He climbed to the main floor. Entered the bedroom where was a
cabinet room, separated by columns and a brocade curtain. Was furnished with a wealth of dubious
taste. Instead of the label that prints any person, if not entirely vulgar, the decoration
and adornment of their rooms, watched the hand of the furniture maker
to comply commission that has been given, according to the current
pattern.

The wooden doors of the balcony were open.

The light came in through a transparent representing a chocolate-colored landscape. The walls
were padded with yellow damask, gilded chairs were like a center
and a bedside cupboard to put goodies.

Watched in this room, belonging to a woman, the same disorder that usually present rooms for
students or military. Various clothing, petticoats, corsets, stockings, walked scattered chairs.
On the rich velvet carpet had some spit and cigar tips.

In the delicate side table in the center with a liquor bottle almost empty and bowls out of place.
The Duke looked grim at this liquor and gently lifted the curtain of the bedroom. In neat
bed of ebony inlaid with ivory, lay a young white skin, very white,
and black hair, very black.

Rested with abandonment no finesse, in a position of well-fed animal.

Even in the dream is possible to know status and spirituality of
the individual.

Salabert had a moment the curtain suspended.

Then held her carefully, and sitting on had an armchair beside the
bed, began to look intently at the beautiful sleeping.

Because it was indeed beautiful and sublime degree.

His features, notably accurate and sensitive: Greek profile, small
and pretty face, straight nose, a bit thick red lips, the skin, a
wonder of nature, a mixture of alabaster and mother-of roses and milk,
below which ran abundant and rich life.

Hair, black and bright, were loose, staining with scented oil batiste
pillow.

Despite the cold weather, one arm and almost half out of the sheets.

True that in the cabinet burned with vivid, chimney fire. The arm was completely naked and was all
the more beautiful and better turning likely to be in the genre. But the hand that was at the
end of this arm did not correspond its beauty. It was a hand where this idleness had failed to
erase the traces of past work, small hand, but deformed fingers and
aporretados solid, hand elevated commoner suddenly the patricians.

Although the banker did not move, the fixity and eagerness in his eyes fixed upon the young exercised
on it the usual magnetic influence.

After a few minutes changed his position, sighed heavily and opened
his eyes, which were black as ink.

Fijáronse an instant vague expression of amazement at Duke, and closing them again, muttered an
exclamation of road, while sinking his face into the pillow. Then, as if suddenly crossed by
his mind the idea that I had done something bad, turned around, opened his eyes again and He
smiled:

- Hello! Is that you?

At the same time held out his hand. The Duke shook, and rising from his chair gave a loud kiss
on the cheek, saying:

- If you want to let you sleep longer. I have not been more than a kiss.

But there was one, but a good portion of it being implemented on both cheeks. The young frowned in
disgust of those caresses, which come from an old should not to be accepted of him. In addition,
it has been said that the lips of the Duke, the effect of mania biting
the snuff, used to be dirty.

Quito, Quito! - He finally rejected -. I sobes more. I've kneaded enough yesterday afternoon.
I have washed thrice. I took upon me a bottle of white rose and yet twelve o'clock night I smelled
bad.

- The smell of snuff.

No: I like the smell of snuff. Smell old.

This output brutal aroused no indignation of the Duke and was to be expected. Laughed and gave an
affectionate pat on the cheek.

- I do not come cheap kisses me.

Nor is cynical altered replica of the beautiful, that in the same tone in a bad mood said:

- You bet. And the older you are, you will emerge more expensive .... Give me a cigarette.

The duke took the clip.

- Do not bring more than tobacco.

- Do not want that .... There, on that thing to write, must have. Bring.

The banker took over a small desk inlaid some cigars and presented. The girl developed one with
the skill of an accomplished smoker and lit the match that Duke was quick to serve. It tried
again bring his lips to the beautiful nasty face of the smoker, but was repulsed with violence.

-
Mira, or you're standing still or go! - She said with energy -. Sit there.

And he pointed to the armchair next to the bed.

The banker dropped into it, looking at the girl with big bulging eyes, expressing fear.

- You are an increasingly surly cat. You abuse my love, or rather, my craziness.

He had, indeed, one of the most wanton tempers could be found. Life had been, in the pretext
of women, burning, greedy. Instead of correcting the years, this hobby was growing up to a
nasty habit. It was noticeable in Madrid. It was known that to meet it, after he had come to
wealth, he had a thousand strange vagaries paid with huge volumes. He had known and loved
by strangers remote countries, them a Circassian and one black. This passion was really the gate
through which he escaped money like a river. But at the same time was the only one who did not
hurt to spend. The trappings of home caused him pain, a tingling sharp: he kept for calculation
and bravado, but he weighed in the soul, but apparently something
else.

There, in the intimate secret home, when there was to transcend the public, sparing, bargained,
and bare account any amount was insignificant, he had no problem
blatantly lying to smuggle a few pesetas merchant.

The money the women were costing entregábalo without hesitation or
remorse, as if all their work and sleepless nights, its large and
continuous calculations to extract the juice business had no other
significance or other destination purchasing the fuel for the fire
to increase its lightness.

Among the many loved ones who had been paid, any acquired much influence
over He and the lies ahead.

This was a girl from Malaga, called Amparo, who was three or four years, selling flowers to
the theaters and had his kiosk in Recoletos. From then called attention for their beauty and poise
and became popular among the fashionable. Festejáronla, persiguiéronla, and although at first resisted
the attacks, when they came in the form positive, let himself be
overcome.

It was, for some time, the mistress of the Marquis de Davalos, a young widow with four children
who spent large sums to her that did not belong.

For active efforts of his family, and money scarce and detours Amparo he found another best
chicken plucking, this relationship broke down, but not feeling so
Live young Marquis that was some intellectual impairment.

After replacement this, Amparo had several ones in the aristocracy of blood and money. Was known
and popular in Madrid under the name of Amparo Malaga.

In walking, in theaters, where came regularly, was for three or four
years a beautiful decorative element.

Because most of its singular beauty, had come to acquire in a short time, if not distinction, elegance.
I knew dressing, power is not as common as it seems, especially in
this class women.

They had enough guts to seek the harmony of colors, the simplicity and purity lines. Not intended
to draw attention, like most of his peers, so exaggerated hats and vivid contrast of colors.
For this reason there was between Madrid Ladies certain indulgence toward her. In its ex officio
kept murmuring more the other considerations, the recognized a very fine complexion, very beautiful
eyes, and taste.

Out of this natural endowment that ladies approaching truth, Amparo
was in dealing so crude, so uncivil, so beast and as ignorant as they
are almost always in Spain creatures of his condition, at least at
the present moment.

Later perhaps become as educated and refined as the courtesans of
Greece.

Today is what has been said above, without encouragement, of course,
offend.

After belonging to the Marquis de Dávalos and three other characters, without prejudice to
the furtive dalliances authorizing came to power the Duke of Requena,
or is the power of it, which is more accurate.

Salabert, as was aging and dwindling energy (for everything that was not to acquire money, that
is), grew in sensuality. The service was transformed into shameful
disorder in unbridled passion, as usually happens the old and vicious
children.

Amparo gave him at this late stage and managed to seize their will
without premeditation.

It was too stupid to design a plan and follow it.

His unevenness, brutally proud, his own stupidity, that did not foresee
the consequences for their actions, helped to master the famous banker.

A year ago it was his dear was installed in that little hotel in the
neighborhood of the monastery.

At first tried to restrain his genius and happy to have him showing
sweet and kind.

But as it cost him an effort, and as, moreover, could not be sure
at once that the disdain, bad humor v to insult, far from cool the
passion of Duke's lit again, gave vent to his genius.

The creature appeared out of the mire, his grossness, his inclinations
plebeian its aggressive nature and shameless.

The duke, who until then had managed to maintain their independently
of their loved ones and why some came to fall in love hard, be so
infatuated by it, which soon will tolerate friezes dignity Ahab later
time and further acts mocked.

Of course, this only lasted domain moments of sensuality, the hours
devoted to leisure.

So out of the temple Venus, recovered his reason the empire, returned
to their companies with growing ambition.

Amparo quietly smoking in silence, sending small clouds of smoke at
the ceiling.

Suddenly made a sudden movement, and joining said:

- I get dressed. Touch that button.

The Duke rose to meet the mandate. A few moments Petra came to dress. As he carried out, love and
maiden changed some impressions too familiar, while the banker was
still intently attentive and distracted from the movements of the
job.

- Miss, have you seen yesterday at the leading Felipa two mice
appeared pony? For happened here .... How beautiful! I have not seen
anything cuter in life .... To see when the master Duke will purchase
another pair as well - Petra said looking out the corner of the eye
to the banker, while tapes tied the gown to her mistress.

- Ps! -
It said, shrugging his shoulders with disdain -. I have not ever given
up guiding. Is skilled of the drivers. But if you give me, and I think
I buy like a log! 

And at the same time became a little half-smile,
to the Duke, who gave a corroborating growl, from its peculiar mouth
movement of smoking on the opposite side.

- As they are very nice
to go to the bulls. And that would be fine with her mantilla Miss
leading white!

- Mantilla to lead? You aviada, daughter!

- Well,
hat. The fact is that would mist: not as the earless of Felipa that
has no meat to satiate a cat ....

The maid, as she collected the
hair, chatted up a storm. The bottom of his talk was always flattering.
Amparo listening with some complacency. Ever interrupted with phrases
of the sort that the home used in more than one occasion, accompanied
interjections that it dared not pronounce. Had had the previous day
encountered in the street with Moratini, and the famous bullfighter
had said in passing: "Memories your mistress. "While the evil maid
looked askance at Duke. Amparo smiled flattered; but he made a mock
sneer.

- It does not matter. You know that I load.

- Well, he has
many supporters.

- Shut up! Shut up! that neither you nor he are
worth a small dog .... Come, bring me soon that cap, and get out.

So
the maid was gone, the Duke, who awakened the memories of the bullfighter
jealousy and bad temper, said leaving the cabinet and lying roughly
on the couch:

- It seems that tonight you had half spree. Who was
here?

He looked under the decanter, where the duke had inn.

- For
Relief and Nati have been to about three.

- Anyone else?

- With
his friends Leon and Rafael.

- Anyone else?

- No one, man. Are you
going to discuss?

- But I've also been known that Manolito Dávalos.

The
Duke did not know. He wanted to get in lies.

- Right: Manolo has
also been - replied with indifference.

- Well, the last time - said
angrily biting his cigar.

- That to me is if I feel like it - the
beautiful former florist said lifting her eyes to him with provocative
expression.

Salabert let out some grunts Amparo considered offensive.
There was a violent scene. Beauty fiercely demanded their independence
sang what she called with classical scholarship "Truths of the boatman."
The banker, excited, answered with his usual rudeness. It was he who
paid, therefore, was entitled to prohibit entry into the house to
whom I liked. The dispute was souring in terms that both rose quite
the voice, especially Amparo in whom a little that the creature appeared
scratched square