 A few days to this part do not you drop by the hand. What's your hurry? Did
not have come to Passages for me? ... In addition, I note that something distracted you, that
always crosses a deep wrinkle your forehead, a sign of serious meditations ... to meet you yesterday
and today a little haggard ...

- Well, do not bring bad crib with
my face! - He said smiling under this smile shone through anger.

Indeed, the generally explore all the time Miguel's face as the sailor on the time. Sometimes
he was pale, sometimes weary, other melancholy, some overly cheerful; never failed to have something
that catches your attention. This eternal and scrupulous inspection I was flattered at first, then
I got bored a little, and had recently become irritated.

- And why you're angry, ungrateful! - Said Lucy .-- If I see your face, you do not look more than her,
everything else seems irrelevant ... Your face is the book where
I read my happiness or my misfortune.

Although it did not cause any impression metaphors of the General's love, Michael softened.

- I can not, Lucia ... If your taste trasformarte at a light and note
all the variations I experience, what do we do?

It is a test of love that I thank you.

The General thought he should continue with the same subject.

- You can not imagine, Miguel, I suffer when I see you sad, what joy when you happy ... If
you only knew! ... Al through your smile I see the world smiling, beautiful, I think the sky is always
blue, evergreen and rondoso field, and that men are all happy ... Oh, if you did, I'm sure he
would smile as long as you do now! Is not it true? ... Sometimes I rush a few thoughts so sad!
Imagination excited by love, takes many turns ... If Michael were to die! I tell myself. This
idea kills me, let me stiff, as if the sky is falling ... If you you were to die, what would the
poor Lucia? Also die of grief, and if not die, too bad for her ... I do not want to think about
it, Michael, because all saddens me. There would be no happiness possible on earth: only your
sweet memory might lend some comfort at times.

Oh, I swear that if you were to die, would keep your image in the heart until the hour of my death,
and beyond, if possible, would live in spirit with me every day, every day, without missing one,
go to visit the cemetery on your grave and leave a bunch of flowers ...

The General had used this resource many times, always with the same
success.

A Miguel Grace did not like in these gloomy ideas and tried to steer the conversation to another
point.

This time the Court lifted the couch where the two were sitting down and taking his hat. To
alleviate a bit the bad effect of this sudden movement, approached
the lady smiling and lovingly stroked her face.

- I have a letter
to the newspaper started ... I need to finish before he leaves the
post.

Farewell, my love ...

That my love was delivered in a distracted, routine, which would have mortified the Generally,
if it were not common in her speech also caress her lover.

- How quickly! Has just been with me two hours.

- Tomorrow will try to spend more time ... Today I can not.

Lucia got up too and threw her arms around the mime before. Miguel endured that embrace and
even made efforts to be excited.

- Wait a little - said the general's pulling away and taking a bunch that were on the fire
.-- Take these flowers, put them in front of you when you write, so when you lift your head remember
your Lucia.

Miguel took the bouquet and kissed him mechanically, as was his custom whenever generala gave
him some object in memory, then said goodbye.

Leaving the Challet had less oppressed heart on leaving Romeo Juliet that famous night that
the reader will surely know, but its path was at least as light. Wanted to reach the ninth time
in San Ramon Nonnato to be held for days in the church of San Pedro. Maximina saw there, which
was bound by a sympathy irresistible. And you most excited about was that she had accepted
her love without that reservation that the fear of being deceived state requires the girls, when
a young superior status goes to celebrate. Maxi was his girlfriend had no need to overcome scruples
and cautions that the calculation or evil thought enters the affecting them. He gave his heart with innocence,
like a natural thing or could not be otherwise. The only thing that made her hesitate at first
was the surprise to be directed it in preference to other young people who went around town
for much nicer, a Once convinced that it had the bad taste to find beautiful or at least sympathetic,
no far found little difference in wealth or imagined that anything
could be nothing but a pure and frivolous pastime for the young stranger.

He opened his mind love with the innocence that the flower opens its cup to the sun. And that shy
girl, melancholy and reflective, in a few days had experienced remarkable transfiguration,
joy brimming with his soul on to her attractive face did not have before, thanks to their movements,
sound to her laugh, brighten your word. This change could not pass unnoticed by anyone but Miguel
least. Observolo with pleasure, the pleasure of the artist looking at the work output of their
hands, was another incentive to stay in love without counting the fatal consequences that this could
bring honest flirtation.

When he was away from the general's house, near the shore and where Ursula was waiting with his
boat, took a look at bouquet in her hand, and thought it was great
annoying to lead the church, saying: - Where am I going with this
load of grass! - what onto the floor, and quickly followed his way
without thinking about it.

The ninth of San Ramon attracted many people to the church of San Pedro. It was a large temple,
dirty and dark until day: night, with four or five oil lamps hung here and there over long distances
gave a sinister aspect. But now the canopy of lights that burned around the image glad a very
wide circle where protruding heads of the pious women who were placed in first row. Miguel used
to enter the church through the sacristy door, and from there, taking a little head, looked across
the illuminated portion of the temple.

Maxi and her aunt were accommodated there in front, near a bench to sit at intervals rest. The
girl, imbued with a keen religious sentiment, not daring to look at Miguel; believed profane the majesty
of God's house. However, occasionally, in rare rare, authorized the raising of the eyes and throw a
quick and serious gaze, regretting I did immediately. In our youth that made him enjoy more
shy and very fast look that hot and prolonged than other women more
beautiful and more attractive had lying in the course of his life.

Although long-distance, observed this afternoon that Maxi's face was not the same other days, the melancholy,
always scattered about him, had become the deep sadness; their eyes were more frequent and
longer, and around his eyes slightly red circle clearly accused the tears spill. What happened?
he asked anxiously. Does be scolded his aunt? And wishes to conclude the ninth soon to know.

It
was dark when they left the church.

The young stranger used to wait Dona Rosalia and her niece on the porch, holy water and offer
to accompany them home in conjunction with other neighbors, which allowed him to catch up
with his girlfriend and holding her conversation apart.

All this idyllic breathed a sense of gentle happiness, which, in
contrast their refined courtly love, was causing him great delight.

After having directed insignificant questions, to which the girl
replied with a sweet and subdued voice, little more subdued than usual,
he asked bluntly:

- What is it?

... Looks like you're sad and you cried (the secret had been tuteaba
few days: she did not dare to do it occasionally, when the young man
as strongly required.)

Maximina walked in silence.

- Do you have
fought your aunt?

- No.

Was silent.

After a moment, his face getting closer, he observed that some large tears rolled down her cheeks.

-
Are you crying?

... Why? - Asked anxiously.

- Do not cry ... is not - "she lifted her eyes towards him smiling,
but cloudy with tears.

- You cry, yes, and I want to know why.

I think I have a right to it ... if I want, as you say.

It took some work still wrest their secret. At length she vented her breast and His voice cut through
the sobs:

- Today have been Paul and Second home and took me to the store before
coming Joaquina to the ninth ... and there began to make fun of me
... I said something so bad!

- What did they say?

- That V. was
laughing at me and just seemed to love me for some fun ... That how
I could figure out a rich and elegant young man had to marry me ...

-
"All that you have said? - Miguel said with irritation deaf .-- Nothing
else?

- They also told me V. I had a girlfriend ... a lady who lives
there in the way of France and that was V. to see every day ... It
seems that they came for me especially designed to this knife!

-
I do not have told you the truth.

The girl looked at him with pleading eyes.

- There's just a little difficult for this writer, who visited many days, is my girlfriend ... and
that the lady is married.

Michael had fully penetrated the soul of the child: that's why I presented
this as a impasse.

Indeed, Maximina opened more eyes expressing surprise; demanded that
the young man I swear, and once made the oath, a ray of joy illumined
his face.

- But how bad are these girls! - Exclaimed, clasping her
hands .-- Do not be afraid that God the punishment?

Miguel has sought to persuade them to not believe anything that's to say about him, thousand
protests made sincere affection, and managed to get home before dissipating the clouds that
veiled his face. Upon arrival, immediately Maximina despojose blanket and went to the kitchen,
where our young followed.

It was an hour very busy for the child: dinner host boys and many preparations required: the
maid was responsible only seasoning of the dishes, Dona Rosalia account
of the tobacconist.

Maximina lit dining lamp and put the cloth on the table: Miguel's still with his eyes: she lifted
occasionally his and sent a smile to show him the confidence he had in his words and how happy
he had done with them. Once set the table, returned to kitchen.

- We need to clean the dishes - she said the maid with the bitter tone he always used.

- Has he scrubbed V. ya?

- If I had not scrubbed, how he had to clean? What a start!

- Do not bother, Rufa - said the girl a bit shortened.

And taking a towel, sat down calmly to dry the dishes.

Miguel sat near her.

- I will tell VV. a story - said that taking another cloth for drying dishes and putting Traveling
.-- also a friend of mine from China, many years ago, told me he had come evening at a village called
Cerdópolis. As he was inside and was not surprised the name it had, not only pigs were everywhere,
in gardens, streets and even inside houses, in short, could not take a step without bumping into
any of these animaluchos.

- What smell would be there, my mother! - Maxi said.

- Atrocious! I said you could not breathe. It happened that he was taken to the home of one of
leaders of the people, but most of the houses, even of the rich, had no more rooms to the kitchen
and bedrooms. The owner introduced him to their daughters, some girls pretty ugly, with eyes
bent and feet very young ... In short, VV. have already seen some Chinese. They seemed friendly, and
my friend was very pleased with the reception they did. It was not so happy with the mother,
wife of our Chinese.

It was an old woman who was next onion chopping the fire and is now Rufa.

Maxi looked up the cook and then turned to Michael with an expression between naive and malicious,
suspecting a joke.

- When my friend went to her asking how health was not answered more that hum! even without looking
up. My friend looked surprised her husband and daughters, as saying, What have I done to this
lady to get me this? But the same him that they, rather than ashamed, looked up to heaven in a
gesture of resignation surprised him even more. They went to dinner, and my friend at dinner
and after she tried to win the sympathies, or at least the benevolence of the woman, lavishing
directing much attention and often the word. All to no avail: China's answer with his usual
grunt, or all over, with a monosyllable that revealed his temper. The husband and daughters
were happy to make the gesture of resignation and pain that every was marveling once more to the traveler.
After spending some time on desktop, he went to rest.

When morning rose, the family found very sad and as appalled.

Then asked them why they went forward bad.

- The poor mother! "- Said one of the girls.

- What happened?

Are you sick? - Asked.

- There she V.

- Where? - Said looking all around, without seeing a trace of China.

- There.

- But where?

- That pig has V. ahead.

- What! - Said my friend, believing that the Chinese had gone mad.

- Yes, sir, we knew at home this week could not happen. You, sir, apparently, do not know what
happens in this town ...

The Chinese then explained that in that
town had a disease, unfortunately very common, cerdofalgia named,
and that was the transfiguration of man into a pig.

Hence the vast number of pigs encountered on the streets. The first symptom of this disease was
bad humor: in the first degree, patients could be cured as the consumptive,
and Indeed, where one was attacked, were used to return to health
thousand kinds of parties and rejoicing, in which the whole family
took part.

Some saved, but most passed the second period, called "silence," because they spoke very little,
yet in this degree except one another. But if unfortunately entered the period of the "grunts"
time was lost thing: after some time, came the transfiguration. His wife was and two months
he was in third grade.

My friend was stunned and realized why when grunting housewife gestures
were all resignation.

At the end of his story Miguel, Maxi made superhuman efforts to contain
the laughter that escaped her mouth, seeing what had piqued that Rufa.

At that time Dona Rosalia came another lady of the same trace. Miguel left to see them hastily
and the dish cloth in her hands, lest they should see him busy task as unmanly. After changing
a few words, Maxi, without realizing what he did, he handed two plates saying

- No longer are we more than seven.

But the young man, embarrassed and very angry, they are rejected.

- Let V. .. V. Let that.

The girl blushed and cried faintly confused:

- As in the past helped me! ...

XV

"My dear sister: - Michael wrote Julia - I wonder why I stay so long in this little town, and
suppose, unwisely, I'll spend most of it in San Sebastian. Also do some reluctance that I dislike,
because they are not good in the mouth or pen from a child as innocent as you are and hope that
you remain. You're wrong on all your hypothesis. Tickets remain in (and you can start to laugh)
because I'm in love my landlady's niece. It's a girl (still laughing) that bypasses pretty nor
graceful, nor has talent, and a good education. I love what I do not know, perhaps the soul, but
not sure. What I can say is that no woman (except you) as I think so cute, so friendly and
so well educated. Has not yet reached ten and six years. If you saw what is good and humble!
Is so convinced of his insignificance, I have done as Jesus Christ; wanting to be the last, high
at first. Has spent two years in a convent Vergara and when I arrived, I was determined to
become a nun: now we went to walk the Monji. This not mean that there was a good religious Maximina,
as it is called in any state and condition of life would be good, because that God made. I spend
my times as listening to a fool, when he tells his life as a schoolgirl: the nonadas and childishness
of companions, who tells me with great warmth, delight me just as the novel more interesting:
I already know all the sisters of the school as if they had given birth, is a sister St. Onofre,
eighteen years old, beautiful, educated, but very short temper, in the convent all the world feared more
than the superior, just imagine that a girl, because expressed disgust
at glass of another, made to eat the leftovers of all the other on
a plate! There is another called Mary Relief of the same age as Maxi,
very sweet, very shy, when girls entangled in class, not having the
courage to reñirlas or punish, she started to mourn. But love my girl
was the sister San Sulpicio, an Andalusian beautiful, graceful and
attractive; four girls were madly in love with her, but which bore
the palm and reached to be her favorite after some time, was Maximina,
but the sister, who was a apparently little flirty, sometimes took
pleasure in showing great coolness mortify or adopting a continent
with her severe, until seeing his face saddened, she started laughed
and gently tugged his ear, calling it silly. One day he came up to
order move to this sister to another convent, secretly left without
saying goodbye. Who Maxi Tells? wondered all schoolgirls. Finally
a more talkative and less well intentioned than the others, it reported
sharply, my daughter received a strong blow to the heart, but tried
to hold back, because he was ashamed to burst into tears in front
of her classmates: this effort on itself cost him dearly, because
after a while she felt sick and had to unbutton dress hastily, lest
they drown