 Then up
with the touch of verifying that a differentiation between limb movement and the object, not
born of mere sensation.

[88.] In this part because the touch is not in sight ahead, we examine whether this alone is able
to make us distinguish between eye movement and the object. We have already noted a single
feeling with respect to a single object, is not enough, but it is
not difficult demonstrate that the comparison of various sensations
we get this result.

Located one eye at a point A, looking at the object B, it is displayed at the bottom of the
visual field and projected on a plane. For clarity, imagine that the object B is a column in
the middle of a large living room, and that point A is an angle in the same part. The column
will seen as a dot printed on the opposite wall. If the eye moved, the column be presented
at another point, so that if we suppose that the eye turns around column, this will go on presenting
all points of all walls the classroom. This sequence of events can be verified in the same way,
assuming the column mobile and fixed eye: it is evident that if an observer situated in the center
column goes round, that, without the observer moves, it will be painted on every wall. Then
a visual sensation alone with regard to a single object, they could
not discern whether that moves the object or the eye.

But we add the simultaneous vision of other objects, and will not be difficult to discover how this
discernment is generated. Suppose that the eye at the same time you see the column, see other bodies
interposed between it and the walls, such as large chandeliers, lamps or too other columns. Let's
see what happens with the movement of the eye: the way the spine is projected at a different
point on the wall, it changes the position of all other objects, the other columns, chandeliers, lamps,
everything is projected onto different points: there is a change total position in all objects.
Let's see what happens without eye movement, moving single column, but it alters nothing: the
other objects are still designed in the same points.

Then the naked eye presents two orders of phenomena fully motion
different.

1. No one in which all objects move in position.

2. No one in which only the dumb one.

These two kinds of phenomena could not but be noticed, and it is clear
that with the help of reflection, excited and enlightened by the repetition
of the phenomena, it would infer when there is a total and constant
alteration of all objects, these are not that move but the eye, and
that on the contrary, if the change of position is checked only in
one or some objects, others staying in the same position, which moves
not the eye, but the objects that make different.

When everything is altered in around us, infer that the eye is what moves and when one or few
objects, follow that move them and not the eye. And although there is no only this is what would
happen but also what happens, because the ideas born of touch are
inherently limited and so is not it possible that that gives rise
to the movements of objects distant, which can not be touched.

[89.] I have shown that the alleged superiority of touch is unfounded; that is not true that the opinion
indicates the basis of our knowledge regarding to external objects, making it the cornerstone
of certain sensations transmitted by the other senses. Without it we can gain the security of
the existence of bodies; without it we form the idea of ??surface and volume, without the knowledge
of the movement, without Reaching out to tell when this movement belongs to the object or the
body receiving printing. The theory of the feelings that I have said, the results deduced relations
of dependence or independence of the phenomena with each other and
with our will, all of it applies itself to the sight to the touch.

[90.] Summarizing the doctrines explained here is the following:

1. º distinguish sleep from waking, even apart from the objectivity
of the senses.

2. º distinguish two kinds of phenomena of internal and external sensation,
to dispense of objectivity.

3. º The way we make sure the existence of bodies.

4. º The feeling on the outside do not have similar item to what we represent, except the extension
and movement.

5. No Touch does not enjoy the privilege of being the touchstone of certainty.

6. No. All that we know through the senses is reduced to that there are external things, extensive,
subject to necessary laws, and causing the effects we called sensations.

CHAPTER XVI.

CAN THE OTHER SENSES.

[91.] La-Mennais has written: "Who says that a sixth sense does not disrupt the agreement of others?
What could melt the negative? Supongámonos different senses of that nature has given us, our
feelings and ideas "would not be different too?

Perhaps, to spoil all our science, suffice a slight modification in our bodies. Maybe there
are things organized so that their feelings being in opposition to the ours is true for us what
is wrong for them, and vice-versa. Because finally, although there is what is found necessary relation
between our sensations and reality of things? And even if there, what would make us know our
senses? "(Test on indifference. Tom. 2. chap. 13).

These words contain several extremely serious, worthy to be examined
carefully.

[92.] Is there an intrinsic inability to oppose a different organization than we possess, and
therefore, gender and order to a totally different sensations we experience? It seems not, and if this
impossibility is, man does not know.

Whatever the opinion is adopted regarding the manner in which external objects act on the soul through
the body's organs, not any necessary relation or even analogy between the object and the effect that
we produce.

A body surface receives the rays of the fluid we call light, those reflecting come to stop at
the retina, ie to another surface, which is in communication with the brain: So far so good,
everything is understood, there is a fluid that moves, ranging from a surface to another, and
that can cause this or that purely physical effect on the brain matter, but What relationship
is there between this and the impression of a completely different
order, called see? the impression that neither is the fluid, or movement,
but an affection that is closely conscious being living, thinking,
self?

If instead the mechanism of light fluid, we assume a completely different, for example the air
that vibrates and is about to hit the eardrum, what is essential reason for not producing a sensation
similar to that of sight? Must confess that critical reason can not be point to no. Who had
no idea of ??the present organization, it would seem as incomprehensible one as the other.

[93.] He said hearing and sight, is applicable to the other senses: in all there is a body corporeal,
affected by a body: we see surfaces, or the one presented before
the other, or overlapping, we see movements of this or that class,
but how to save the vast distance of these physical phenomena is the
phenomenon of sensation?

For my part I find middle: this is a point where human intelligence is stopped, all appearances
indicate no more relationship between these two kinds of phenomena that set free by the will
of the Creator, if there is any necessary connection, this need is for man a secret. Consider
the tissues that receive the impression of objects, the mass that form the nervous system
through the sensation, and see what is the relationship between physical phenomena of this subject,
and an admirable set of sensible phenomena; not found.

[94.] Upload the difficulty point when one considers that the organs, even preserved without
injury any, cease to produce sensations from the moment they are cut off from the mass brain,
or that is having some disorder, and so that the vision takes place in the cavity the skull, in the
midst of the most complete darkness, and all the wonderful magic
of sensations can be presented to our mind the magnificent spectacle
of the universe, reaching deep into our souls the wonders of music
with us in exquisite taste dishes in delicate aromas, all this takes
place through the brain matter, ie a white material, apparently report
and rude, and that no one could suspect that was spent in so noble.

[95.] What reason is there to hit the nerve in communication with the mass, we to experience
the sensation we call seeing, and affected the nerve B, which we call hearing, and so the other
senses?

The reason will be, but we do not know, and probably not another that the free will of the Creator.
With this philosophy confesses its weakness, it is true; but would not it also expresses its scope,
seeing a phenomenon to another is immense distance, and can not be among them but the point of communication
established by the same hand of the Almighty? When there are secondary causes, the merit of
philosophy is to bring them; but when they do not exist, this merit is estimated to rise to the first.
A I do not know is sometimes more sublime for human reason, impotent efforts intemperate pride,
the understanding can also be high understanding their ignorance, because it is high understanding
including higher truths, and sometimes ignorance is also a really very high.

[96.] It is possible because a new meaning, or at least not in its existence found no impossibility.
If the deaf who have no idea of ??the sounds, the blind do not know what they are colors, would
proceed very wrong to deny the possibility of feeling that is lacking; would run no more success
with us saying that it is not possible order of sensations different from what we have.

If we look to the light of reason the current system of sensations, not discovered any essential
dependence between them and their respective body, or between this
and the purpose and circumstances that is affected.

Why the impression of light on the eyes to cause me a feeling given
that it's unlikely the same impression on the other hand?

Why the brain could not get in many ways such an impression?

And besides, why should be fully the fluid that surnamed light, causing us this impression?
Discover What disgust that the same feeling to see emanating from other brain disorders? A
blow to the head gives us the feeling of many points of light, and
hence the saying vulgar "has made me see the stars in the middle of
the day.

" Must confess, that philosophy knows nothing about these mysteries, and so far has not been able
to enter them, nothing can answer to the issues proposed, is an order of events, but not a
necessary link between them; rather, judging by the ideas we have about minds and bodies, everything
leads to believe that the phenomena of our life, no more reason than the will of the Creator.

[97.]
If possible an entirely new order of sensations, it involves no contradiction an animal endowed
with a sixth or seventh sense: the imagination falls short of what would be the new sensations,
but the reason you do not see them any impossibility.

CHAPTER XVII.

EXISTENCE OF NEW DIRECTIONS.

[98.] Is it true that we ourselves have no more than five ways to feel? I coat some doubts
about it. To present clearly and to resolve issues giving foot should be set while the significance
of words.

What is felt? In the more ordinary acceptation, expresses the impression that it is transmitted
to us by any of the bodies of the five senses. Taken the word in this sense, clear is to be limited
to these alone, but considered it expresses some kind of phenomena animals, is to experience a condition,
caused by an impression of the body. And this is as true in the same general purpose use the
word feel, in a respecter but can, not limiting it to the impressions
of the five senses.

While it is true that when expresses this idea substantively, is the difference between feeling
and sensation; However, even in this case, the force of things has used repeatedly to feeling word
in meanings that have nothing to do with the five senses. So you say "the news caused a profound
sensation." "He could not resist the urge sensation so vivid and so on. etc., "in which case
it is clear that this is not to see, hear, smell, taste and play,
but an order of the soul completely different conditions.

[99.] He said the force of things leads to use the word in the broadest sense; and this force is
that it considered the matter, check to see that the meaning can is more accurate than circumscribed.
Because in the eyes of philosophy, the phenomenon of feeling is to be in the soul an affection
caused by an organic impression, and of course this condition is that there is of order whatsoever,
and regardless of the body also affected, the animal phenomenon is in substance the same. The
difference is in the kind of affection, and the organ that is the conduit, but the essence
of the phenomenon does not change.

And if we call sensations species to conditions as diverse as those of sight and touch, why
can not apply this name to other impressions made by any organ?

[100.] But whatever it is the use of the words feeling and sensation, the truth is that conditions
over the five senses, we experience many impressions caused by organic. What are the passions
of the soul but conditions arising from certain provisions of organs? Love, anger, compassion,
joy, sadness, and many others that we agitated and upset, are not often excited by the mere presence
of an object?

[101.] Tell you that there is an essential difference between sense impressions and of the passions,
is that those disregard any previous idea of ??all reflection, and
these the always involve more or less unwrapped.

Thus, an object presented to our eyes open we can not see him, and always in the same way, and yet
this same subject about sometimes excite in us a passion, sometimes another, sometimes none, and
almost always very variation in their degrees of intensity. There is also the simple presence
of the object that we affects, are needed under different conditions, such as the memory of a benefit
or an insult, the idea of ??their sufferings and so on., thus you see that there is a essential
difference between these two kinds of views.

While reflecting on the difficulty I have proposed, you will find that most specious as it is,
and however much truth they contain, not destroy what has been established over above. In fact,
I have not said that the new prints were not subject to conditions very different from those
that mediate the five senses, but on the contrary, I always assumed, that the difference could
be not only the kind of posters and diversity of the organ, but also in the way in which this
was affected, and circumstances that through him the sensation was
produced in the soul, only I have argued that the phenomenon was in
substance animal the same, we see in him the three things which constitute
its nature, corporeal object; body affected by this; posters produced
in the soul.

That this impression to exist, need Gadget of this or that idea, of this or that memory, does not
mean that the phenomenon exists, and that is the same: there is a new condition and nothing
else.

[102.] But even here you can make another observation: there is no need to admit that it is necessary
any idea or thought to be born in the soul certain impressions at the sight of an object: everyday
experience teaches us otherwise.

How does the presence of an object captivated in an instant a tender heart, and maybe innocent?
Where does this fascination sudden, not preceded by any idea that brings no thoughts, and just
the consent? No thought of rude pleasures, for it may not even know its existence experiencing
the emotion, and the first time feel in your chest a previously unknown perturbation; then it must
resort to organic disease, similar to what is experienced in other senses. Congratulations
may be necessary under certain conditions of age and temperament, it has been necessary in a
thousand objects one particular circumstances, of which no succeeds to realize to himself touched
the heart: but the truth is, there is an object external, an affection of the body, and an impression
on the soul, all coexisting bound by a mysterious bond, but undeniable.

In the phenomena related to reproduction is easy to notice a series
of vivid impressions, arising from the mere presence of objects, and
if it is true that often assume the action of some of the five senses,
despite the varied conditions that on this occasion occur in the soul,
belong to an entirely different order. And to know that these conditions
depend on the organization, are not necessary physiological knowledge,
just remember that age, health status, temperament, food, weather,
seasons, and other similar causes, have in this class of phenomena
a lot of influence.

[103.] Among the feelings and sensations is a
difference, but does not alter the essence of the event, considered
physiologically and psychologically, however seem to change some both
in its intellectual and moral. The passions are excited by commonly
an animated object and sensitive and therefore it seems that rather
there is a communication of spirit spirit, soul with soul, not body
to body. A look languid and painful not just a human being, but also
of an animal, instantly aroused our heart the feeling of compassion,
but the look does not cause this effect but as we that expresses the
suffering of living. This observation is accurate, but does not prove
anything but there is in the mysterious nature of channels through
which knowledge is transmitted to us of hidden things, but this transmission
is done by a body in a way that affects particular our organization