 Separáronse in
the most cordial at the Inn of the Dragon, and D. Benigno, faded and lame, he went to his home
with a speed that allowed his detestable career, while searching Salvador where to stay. A
few days later found ourselves installed in their own room he rented in Calle del Duque de
Alba, not far from D. Felicísimo Butcher, of most happy remembrance. In Madrid did not find
any new development, since it deserves the name the fury with which everyone s uprising brewing
sedition. Brazilian infantas conspired with unparalleled impudence; realistic volunteers conspired,
aided by the crowd of monks and clerics bad avenues with the idea of ??losing their omnipotence
conspired sacristanes nuns and many military family that had been made bishops, and not missing
his humorous side this national troupe, also waved towards D. Carlos many men who had been rabid
Jacobin democratic and called the three years of the second season entitled constitutional.
Before the system had shouted and now yearned for the rights of immemorial sovereignty in its
fullness.

Salvador also heard the absurdities of the vulgar, who had been led to believe that the King
would not lived and that this good man who went by car to ride was the embalmed corpse of Ferdinand
VII. For a simple mechanism, the Neapolitan, who was beside him, made him move his hands and
head in greeting. And with a straw-filled King was cheating on this heroic nation!

Saw a change of ministers based on the October 16 seemed a bit damaged of liberalism, since
the Court government wanted a bittersweet absolutely contented to and reconcile all the day through
the night, something actually more difficult to roast butter. Also could see the cancellation
of the famous codicil ceremony that mocked the Carlist and heard telling the flight Calomarde
monk dress, and the excesses of the Bishop of Leon, which, as an Indian chief arrogant and
unable to rouse the kingdom, he put his arms diocese, giving the
command of volunteers realistic to the Immaculate Conception.

Other learned and saw many things that are not for referring to the light. Their relationships
with people of various kinds will tell you everything. Pipaón, D. Felicísimo Butcher and the Marquis
de Falfán made no mystery of the apostolic plans and Genara, raging sectarian system fair means
or of the settlement, was the happiest body can imagine the thoughts
Mr. Zea beating of that ruling or seemed to rule the ship (the ship
ever!) plus close to the obstacles that the desired port.

Genara had settled in his old house, striking three years before the gathering to concurred tender
and political writers mature, but in the winter of 1833 did not open the doors of that happy
home for the first poet to come to the province charged tragedies, nor for the Italian tenor,
or for lawyers began to speakers born in classrooms with a freshness to some extent dire.
The circle was much more close friendships and greater choice, thus winning account of the house.
And here it is interesting that the lady had completely lost his love of poetry lyric (that there
is nothing durable in the world), and therefore if the prisoner had already de Cuéllar as clouds
of yesteryear. He was indeed a character little purpose for the record in their affections. It
is not known if this season we're referring to was released Genara preference or sympathy for
any of the other liberal arts, or by artillery and sailing, as stated. Lacking definite information,
we decline to say anything; that in doubtful cases is worth more to comply with the general good,
and sends the moral of the story and Christian charity.

D. Luis Fernández de Córdova, militarily brilliant, passed, when he came to Berlin to take charge
Embassy of Portugal, long hours at home Genara. Would also, though not very Frequently, D. Francisco
Javier de Burgos y Martínez de la Rosa. Regulars was a young Granada official named Narvaez,
lively genius, ceceoso, quarrelsome and expeditious. But the person most worthy of mention among
those who visited the beautiful lady was a Jesuit Imperial college, called the Father Gracian,
a man of great piety and prayer. Some said that the friendship of the good friar with Genara was going
to convert this, or is your way into the good Catholic. Others declared that they had noticed in her remnants
of bigotry; but whatever it wants, the truth is that the intentions
of Father Gracian were highly profitable, because (let's say once)
had proposed to reconcile the lady with her husband.

That Pipaón visited almost daily to his old friend and compatriot no what to say. Moreover,
His Excellency D. Juan Bragas had much sympathy with the Jesuit Gracian. Both talked seriously
stunning of the affairs of State and Church, deploring much the warmth of beliefs that hurt
both the Spanish society at the time and concluded that they should come forward with better ones
in the nation to march on the road piety, gently grazed by the ministers of the altar. As much interested
Gracian by his friends and wanted to take all possible benefits to the heart of Christian
families took to heart the realization of marriage with Micaelita
Panties, draft already Headlines in the previous book.

Salvador was accompanying Pipaón sometimes Genara house, they ate together three and when they
were Monsalud and thanks also spoke at length on the State and the Church. One day, after
talking with him, asked the Jesuit reports to the lady of the house
on that unknown friend, perhaps to see if he could reconcile with
someone, because the desire of good disciple of St. Ignatius was reconciliation.

Genara said

- If you want to win the crown of a good peacemaker, make you a friend of my husband.

- Do not you want it? - Gracian asked slyly.

- No good .... Is enmity
dating from the war with the French.

Both are stubborn, proud, and perhaps in his youth befall any of
those things that always cause for rivalry among men ....

- Some
women ....

- May be, may be that this has been - she said calmly
pulling indifference.

Anything else said about this, but we do not care yet, and still more urgent following the
steps of the person alluded lady and the priest, going after him without delay. Some days we saw
him enter the house of D. Felicísimo Butcher, who still had some scores. The agent received
as received to anyone with whom he has made a very lucrative business, and making him sit at his
side gave him pats on the shoulder and up ventured to tell any of
the tasty little thing Carlist conspiracy.

One morning, entering Butcher house, found the ladder to a colonel in army friend. Was D. Thomas Zumalacárregui.
Was accompanied by the Count de Negri, and this made him understand that the brave Biscayan
previously resistant to the blandishments of prudish people, had been won at last. They greeted
each other and moved on. He opened the door table. Al stepped into the cat, who escaped mayando,
then, because of the darkness of the dilapidated corridors, met with Dona Maria del Sagrario,
who dropped to his shock hands a enormísimo bowl of porridge. He put the fuss was mistress, and therefore
noise alarmose D. Very happy, to venture out of their niche asking if he entered the house
a crowd of Christines. Salvador melt-in excuses, and as he approached the wall, the black clothes
manchósele such So like a miller. When shaken, not without comment with some phrases that rudimentary
laundering of the walls, there were tripping over one of the beams that supported the house
and found fragile that the whole factory was shaking and falling chunks of ceiling plaster,
as if between the upper timber load step ran warring armies of mice.

For finally came to shake hands with Butcher and came together in the office.

- It seems that enters a storm in my house - said the old man standing
in your niche -.

And what such? Did you find the stairs to Zumalacárregui and the
Count?

Good military good diplomat, hee, hee ...

- Zumalacárregui is a good buy - responded Salvador -. Has value and talent.

- As there are other acquisitions much better yet - Butcher said, rubbing his hands -. How unfortunate
that the Government of Mr. Zea has undertaken the voluntary disarmament realistic? ... Yes,
the phantoms of Castroterreño in Leon and the fool to put offices
in Catalonia Llauder the Government saying they have removed the volunteers
realistic weapons.

Do you believe? Do you think you can remove the sun rays? Hee, hee. And believe the bobbin that
has a pike in Flanders!

... I call this gentleman Zea bobbin, which is a kind of minister embalmed, as the King has become
a King of newsprint.

- The Government will create strong, Mr. Butcher, and seems determined
to throw a slab on the match D. Carlos.

Beware, my friend, now seems to throw them.

- Oh! I fear nothing
for me - said D. Very happy with emphasis, leaning back -.

But we to what is urgent. I know what's coming you today.

- At the same I came yesterday.

- And the day before yesterday and Tuesday and Saturday. Today you have not been in vain. At
last, at last ....

- Did he?

- Yes, Mr. D. Carlos Navarro, our brave friend, arrived last night
of your trip for the kingdom of Navarre and Alava and Vizcaya.

It is a beautiful subject. Whoever said that religious country until the stones have a heart
to throb D. Carlos, to cast pumpkins hands to pick up guns. The bells there, when they play
at Mass say "no more Masons' and date on which the war the men of the earth will be able to conquer
Europe while women conquer the rest of Spain .... Well, very good .... How you To see that gentleman?
I warn you that is hidden.

- No matter: I only talk about family matters. Last summer was the Farm but I could not see, because
he always refused to receive me. Now I will be easier, because You will write two words.

- I will be happy, but I warn you that Mr. D. Carlos is sick liver. It is already has done so
much work! He is a tireless champion of good teachings. Last night he complained of dreadful pains,
and, strange to a man so religious, ji, ji, relied more the demons
that the Blessed Virgin.

If you want to be sure that you want to interview, we'll tell Father Gracian, a Jesuit, excellent
subject that comes here some evenings, and then we usually go to drink chocolate Maroto's house,
where the Father is Carasa .... Well, thanks a friend of Mr. D. Carlos,
and has long been proposed that reconcile him with his wife .... Oh!
is a falcon for the good Father Gracian reconciliations.

- I know.

It is a worthy priest who has the best intentions, and if it fails bring happiness to all mankind
because God does not want .... In conclusion, you entiéndanse and
Father Gracian for me to see Mr. Navarro and talk about an issue that
is not political and only he and I are both interested.

Does he live ...?

- Do not know if I should tell you right now,
before the same Mr. D. Carlos, beautiful person, hee, hee ... before
the same Mr. D. Carlos Navarro to leave for you to display.

And I'll fix it. Come back tomorrow for this home.

After Salvador was, D. Felicísimo wrote a letter in which over after draw three crosses, put
it: A Lady Doña Maria de la Paz Porreno, street of Bethlehem.

-III-

The poor lady almost lived in the same narrowness in 1822, because the removal policies friendly social
and stopped at the door of the house, which was without doubt one of the best museums of fossils
that then existed in Spain. The periods of time prevailing absolutism were to thrive in the house
and plenty of cupboards Porreñanas the same as those prevailing in the vile villain of the
clubs. So in point facilities and supplies the dying Marquis would have ended a disaster like
the empires have been formidable if not come to his aid an industry
that, while is somewhat prosaic, there is something noble for being
associated with hospitality.

The two illustrious As unfortunate ladies chamber to house a respectable gentleman so rich in
seasons, sometimes very long, that the subject spent in Madrid. The treatment was excellent,
good pay, and harmony between the host and the ladies so perfect that the three looked like brothers.
Familiarity enhanced by respect and a dignified simplicity reigned in the silent house seemed
inhabited by shadows.

Well, that is, to what historians know that with modest financial benefits honestísimo acquired
by that environment had renewed the ladies of the unfurnished, although All antiques are preserved,
supported by patches and polished by the time and toilet. Wonderful thing! the hourglass 2 had
returned to walking, but from malice or watchmaker by a mechanical mystery impossible to penetrate,
walked back, and well after midnight was eleven, then ten and so on. Table of Saints of the
Order Dominica had been restored by the same Doña Paz, old man assisted by a skilled carpenter,
clerk and binder, and filler here, goop there, with half a dozen black brushstrokes in the
shadows and a good coat of varnish car across the surface, had been as the day he was born. For
the same style had been saved from complete ruin the polls saints
and the cornucopias, which no longer have their windows but irregular
spots quicksilver seemed a collection of maps.

What is new, it was very humble, was in straw chairs, gingham curtains, hems of mat colors,
but glad the house and his ancient matalotaje. In such a way that ghastly image of yore laughed
in his grave.

By the time we find that again, Doña María de la Paz was coming swiftly apoplectic old age, going to
her with gouty feet, shaky head, shoulders crass and neck. Her hair, however, blacks were kept
the same as the lunar and was pursuing her white hair like liberals, and gave no quarter to
none, being as ruthless with them when they came in droves and could not pull them up for fear
of becoming in the pure hull, outfitting dressed in black so that
no one knew. So when this operation was not done with skill (because
the forces had diminished the view) appeared the temples and forehead
marred with some dark clouds over them Snow glistened mimicking a
wonderful winter landscape