 

Meanwhile continued the struggle between mother and daughter. This, with frightened eyes, disheveled
hair, his forehead covered with copious sweat, cheeks flushed by fever, repelled with both
hands to the mother and repeated: - Let me, mama, let me see that face of a heretic. I ask
my daughter's account. The I removed it, he, entrails of a beast. And the mother, always in tears
flooded her in his arms, he replied: - By love of God, my daughter, by the Immaculate Conception
of Mary, for your health, the Your daughter, who is alive and well, shut up, calm down. I'll
beg for heaven's sake.

But as the struggle drags on, the gentleman approached the bed, took his hand of the patient, which
she rejected, and deep voice, but filled with exquisite tenderness,
he said:

- Charlie, listen.

I promise that tomorrow you will see your daughter. Back at you. Calm down! No more crazy.

Séase that deal runs out both the forces that impose respect séase voice the unknown, it is certain
that the patient, breathing a deep sigh, fell suddenly back on the pillow and lay there motionless
for a short time. Unless the mother did not believe, at first, but had expired. Laid it on
that occasion, hand on heart, and how, and by the shock, and because in fact he had paralyzed
the blood in the veins of the patient did not feel the pulse briefly. So, greatly frightened,
turned to the gentleman, who apparently watched the scene impassively silent, and bitter accent
counterclaim said

- You see, sir? She's dead.

This was not party to the gentleman to lose his natural equanimity.

Far from it, with very calm and deliberation took the pulse of the
girl in the guise of a physician, and then said:

- Bring you ether.

He's fainted. This girl is very weak, needs food.

- The doctor has forbidden, Josefa observed signal.
- Physicians do not know what is caught. You Dela broth. But dispatched
with ether.

Brought the volatile alkali, were applied to the nose,
but the only signs of life that gave the girl was a quiver of the
eyelids, which did not open by the way, and mourn in silence, or thread
by thread, as stated in the graphic vulgar expression