 He was a widower and D. Acisclo, and had a daughter
twenty, Morenilla very graceful, small body, still single, and called Dona Manolita aka the
snake. The so called because of its extraordinary resiliency and mobility. Claimed in the
people that were made and a batch of stalks of lizards. Said and did all the time two hundred thousand
funny nonsense, but all innocent and no commitment, so surnamed also the thunder, but it really
was not thunder, but storm of laughter, gay jokes and speeches rejoicing, because it was no
less talkative than his father. As Moreover, the bottom of Dona Manolita could not be more excellent.
He was loyal, affectionate without malice and without envy, sharp wit, and more judicious and
thoughtful in the importance of what promised stunning exterior and superficial.

As Dona Luz was serious and measured, Dona Manolita served to complete their modes be. For this,
no doubt, and other qualities that we have spoken, Dona Luz made her his companion. Doña Manolita
was the only person in Villafría tuteaba Dona Luz. Not yet trust her with total abandon, because
Dona Luz was very reserved, but by day days was winning more Dona Manolita in his heart. Boards
walk out walk, went together the church, and together they used to sit in the gatherings. Doña
Manolita mimicked Dona Luz in dress and hairstyle, and followed or where the name came. Dona
said Manolita that was it for Dona Luz which for the gallants of the swashbuckling comedy footman
funny, and recalling that several of the best comedies this lackey was called Moth, Dona Luz
said: "Child, I am your Moth."

Respect to D. Acisclo thought Dona Luz as her father, and not kept the former manager inquinia
the slightest, because it had raised nearly all the wealth of their elders. If The Marquis
had insisted on ruining what it sinned D. Acisclo? With some moral convoluted, Don Acisclo could
not know, maybe he saved the interests of the marquis perhaps would have done last another few
years the splendor of the house, but this request in those places was to order popcorn in the
Gulf. Enough, then, Dona Luz, to be profoundly grateful to D. Acisclo, the firm persuasion that entertained,
that any manager with another from there, the ruin of his father had been ten years earlier, and she
had not raised as an elegant lady, within the well-being, with English governess, and all care due.
God knows how it was raised and what it would have been ruined if the marquis berrenchín and
dies, leaving her an orphan aged five years and not fifteen.

Well liked Luz D. Acisclo. Sympathized with their activity, with a love of work and other virtues
that he shone.

For the good-looking, Dona Luz had lived, without any attempt at going home, home Don Acisclo,
until he was twenty. From then on, he tried several Sometimes going to live alone at home,
but D. Acisclo held her gently and lovingly. Gave him to understand that it would be a sadness
only after getting used to his company, and called also, somewhat grotesquely, what they say,
arguing that was a girl and Dona Luz was not walking free as old maid, who was good and severe,
if lived alone, had to say it was a cow's bell.

Doña Luz, far from being offended, laughed at this comparison ungallant,
and continued to live in the home of former manager.

On the other hand, the independence of Dona Luz was perfect.

Three or four rooms belonged to him alone in the house, and were furnished with most exquisite
taste. They did not come from the four daily but close friends and referrals: Joan the Maid, one
of the body of the house, which was cleaning under the supervision of Juana, in order not to break
an object of art or fine furniture, and, finally, other three beings, who were also semi - close
Dona Luz, and who completed or closed their circle family. Were these three beings Thomas the old
servant, and as his squire and companion when she went on horseback Uncle Blas, overseer of
the lady, who was meant to care property, which she ran and were improving to the point where
it produced about 20,000 rs. in some years of good harvest, and the
greyhound Palomo, white giant in its class, and terrible genius to
whom it seemed to him that upset or offended her love, with which
it was all gentleness, meekness and gentleness.

In addition to the normal society, not Dona Luz refused to attend other more broadly based. The
sons, daughters, daughters and sons of D. Acisclo, with flooding and numerous offspring, their
consuegro and Consuegra, godfathers and godmothers, formed a crowd
with whom it was necessary to switch.

All they were insignificant and not very funny, they were neither bad nor good, and Dona Luz
was miracles of diplomacy in order not to treat and not anger them much either.

In the days of the holy birthday of each individual to the family
of D. Acisclo had patriarchal food in the house, and dance fuss.

Luz excuse not to attend such functions, and almost always right
to leave on all of your kindness and joy.

-V-

Dona friendship Manolita

Dona
Luz's life was, however, so regular, so monotonous, so no accidents
to differentiate few days from other days, who had spent years, and
in memory of her was as a dream shooting, where everything was confused.

This

is for any spell of peace. For Dona Luz still had more charm.

The agitated his mind with thoughts, desires or their will or passions,
it was strange the world around her, coming from an ideal world, where
no space or time.

So that while Dona Luz, not distinguished in this from other men,
not thought or felt all at once, as the causes of his thinking and
his deep feeling were not marked point on our planet, and time marked
on the timeline, effects are also subtracted laws of succession and
the place and it seemed that they were given in a lifetime move.

I weigh not be clear and try to explain with more simplicity, but little to diffuse. Luz was not
a dreamy mystical life was far from infinite continuous rapture, see, understand and appreciated
what was happening around her in the real world, but the incidents and events Villafría the
less interested, though closely watched, that the incidents and events
that recounted stories and novels, that poetry was right to submit
or that she fantasized sometimes.

Dona Luz also did not have a heart of stone and mortar, but a very compassionate heart and
affectionate resented the evils and misfortunes of others, sought to remedy them, comforted them at
times, and consumed in this part of their business. But as his business was large, and very
dilated beyond the limits of Villafría and even dragged in a infinite came to be that the
most intimate and essential part of your life, what most affected was not in Villafría, and therefore
was not anywhere. Therefore, if it does dreamy lived like a dream.

However much we long to ponder the tenderness of someone, we're not going to say that they
are marked the most important periods of its existence the day the child died of smallpox
neighbor across the street, or the night they set fire to the farmhouse the farmer with whom
has ever talked to a walk or to leave the church. To mark these times, cases needed more intimately
touch our own being.

For Dona Luz had not time of this order since the death of his father. Truth is that, quite contrary
to the general women, it was worth little to many things that others fill the memory, without
neglect or delete the seemingly most insignificant details.

Nothing, in my opinion, it is noted that rather than the female spirit. I confess that I remain
listening enthralled to refer women events, sets or conversations. No small thing that be thrown into
oblivion. And he said ... and tell all he said. And said the other ... and do not forget word
you said. And then replied from beyond ... and neither is misplaced
a single letter of reply.

Imagine the listener up detailed and accurate record of as witness and hear. Not so Dona Luz. Luz
heeded very few events.

What most excited, delighted and moved, as it was today than yesterday, the same a year later
than a year earlier: the return of spring, a sky full of stars, moonlight, dawn, the smell
and beauty of the flowers, music, rhymes and things like that are forever.

Even the friendly relations of Dona Luz with the doctor, the priest and D. Acisclo were unchanged:
they were always in the same being, not grow or shrink.

Only in relations with Dona Manolita was no change, increasing the intensity of affection.

Let us, therefore, the moment that grows to a climax this friendship
between Dona Luz y Dona Manolita.

It was a May morning. We have said that Dona Luz morning. Also early in the morning the daughter
of doctor. At seven o'clock came to see her friend, and entered her boudoir, where she free admission.

If
any man in the world, aware of the life of Madrid or another European
capital, and knows the lifestyle of our places of Andalusia, had gone
there, it would pleasantly surprised and would have doubted what his
eyes saw.

Dona Luz The lounge had all the comfort, the elegance of a lady's
boudoir Madrid of the most comm'il faut, a pair of field singularities
and poetic the village.

Two windows looked out into the garden, where they were acacias, poplars,
black, flowers, fruit trees, also in bloom then, and bright greens.

Inside the parlor was also plants and flowers in porcelain cups. A large cage of birds enclosed
crowd cheered stay with their trills and chirps. Dona Luz had two exquisite antique desks
with drawers and columns, filled with inlaid ivory, ebony and mother of pearl, comfortable chairs
and sofas, a fireplace built better than the others in the house, mirrors, pretty pictures and
a closet full of glossy books.

On his writing table looked like the best picture, or at least more
Dona Luz estimated.

Contained a number of attributes and emblems of the Passion nails, crown of thorns, ladder, rooster
and spear of Longinus, in the center cross and the cross around nicely painted many flowers.
There was, however, that this painting was in the eyes of Dona Luz both price that object; what the
painting was covered up. He touched a spring, departed the painting we have described, like a
door, and took us to see another picture of superior merit, a horrible picture and beautiful at
the same time. It was the figure of Christ, medium body, admirable beauty and a job delicate and
neat. The beard and hair could be counted. The regularity and noble symmetry of all factions instilled
love and respect, but the anguish of the scaffold, the horrors of the agony, the torture they
were all marked on that face gaunt and haggard, and in that chest and those wounded by the
spear side. It was a dead Christ, the recess pale nail across his right hand resting on the emaciated
chest festering sores of thorns, blood still pouring, they were in their temples, the mouth
half open, bruised lips, eyelids drooping, but not completely closed, let see their eyes glaze and
fixed. The painter was right to join with inspiration monstrous image of a creature Next to dissolve,
and how superhuman God Himself had made.

Smart about that painting attributed to divine Morales, others said
it was a Morales disciple and not the master himself.

Anyway, the painting had been involved at home and was one of the few jewels of any claim that
the Marquis had not sold.

The picture was such a woman more delicate, less spirited Dona Luz, or you have in your room
or would look upon him as often. The representation of divine love of Christ had combined
with fear and with a tremendous compassion that perhaps had brought down seizures, or produced
in hysterics and even delirium. But Dona Luz was was very unique and strange delight in the
contemplation of that long table, where pinned the highest mystery, the two most opposite
extremes of human nature asserting: Beatification all, all beauty, all the heavenly glow that we
can meat, together with a pure soul, and being home temple of the Lord, and pains, while, and
misery, and suffering pitiful and sickening corruption of the flesh itself.

Luz wisely found this shocking picture covered by the other, and so he kept, bringing of the
manor to his room in the house of D. Acisclo. Almost no one showed him; but she, who had a very rare
condition and very contrary propensities in the active spirit and indefatigable, perhaps after
jogging and galloping and dangerous leaps on his black horse, for two or three hours, maybe after
you have cleaned, washed and rubbed with complacency her beautiful body, that the exercise had
become brave sweaty, overflowing it health, all the zest of youth and all the flowering of the
plastic beauty is impetus was full of ascetics, and opening her box, looked at him a long
time, and Tears came to his eyes and went to her red lips she murmured prayers ineffable and
just articulated.

That morning there was none in Dona Luz asceticism, or at least, had not come yet asceticism.
Dona Luz was wearing a beautiful gown and blond hair, no hair Moreover, subtle network collected.
Lying listlessly in an armchair, reading, and in this, as in another, of two books by his side.
Were Calderon and Alfredo de Musset. Luz walked studying and comparing how these two authors had put
into dramatic action that it: No teasing with love and Badine On ne pas avec l'amour.

Not impelled to this study mere hobby speculative literary criticism, but a practical case,
which was just over two months was presented and he was interested enough.

Güeto Pepe, the son of a wealthy farmer from Villafría, aged thirty years, was the man severe,
moderate and formally known throughout the province. The follies and joys something Dona decomposed
Manolita he clashed in a vicious and always was censored. Had been said that if Mrs. Manolita
it was something woman, for example, had to out of the corners of lizards body, although it
was necessary to use a good rod wicker. Doña Manolita, however, that he had known all along,
said Pepe had a lot Güeto lip service, it was somewhat educated man and would never use the
rod with women, and that if he might become her husband, instead of hitting, hitting and it would
be the model of the henpecked husband. The doctor's daughter added that the exaggerated severity,
especially in young men, mistaken for foolishness, and that, or she had little power, or was
to get Pepe Güeto gravity, as who gets the heck out of a possessed, and that if he was no fool,
had to be crazy, forcing him to make a thousand follies.

Also these threats came to the notice of Pepe ghetto, where he was, that wherever that she saw
him and was threatened again, and he scolded the brash and rowdy, and she laughed at the seriousness
of him and described as silly. The anger and bitterness of both grew in such a manner that
no longer sufficient to vent casual encounters, and often sought to move dispute and quarrel
and treated very badly. These fights ended by usually say that Pepe Güeto: - If I had the
misfortune to be your husband, and would get into the seam - and with Dona Manolita reply:
- If I incur in folly of being a woman of a man as fastidious, or put him happier than a rattle,
or I had to delete the name I have.

Güeto and Dona Pepe took Manolita such fondness for insults, curses and quarrels, which arming
each day three or four times.

This had raised questions about Dona Luz, because I wanted it to Dona Manolita, and on this occasion
I read those comedies, having reread another Shakespeare, where it
was the same subject in a more masterful.

Absorbed in reading that was Dona Luz, where, as we said, went to see Mrs. Manolita.

They kissed, hugged, they found the most cordial good morning, and then spoke the daughter of Physician:

-
My dear, you're the first one has to know. You'll know before my father. Great news! My fight with
Pepe Güeto no longer skirmishes.

The wrath of the two has reached its height.

We have engaged in a duel to the death.

- What do you mean? - "Dona Luz.

- I mean - said her friend - that to see if I get mad or if he makes me wise, we have decided to get
married. Truth is that he gives up for now, and says that they are home with me, should not
be in their right mind, and already, without getting married, you I won the game and the bet, but,
therefore, adds that wants to marry for revenge and retaliate. I answer that I feel not to lose
my son, but you want to get even, and I assure you will leave with hands on his head if he
keeps playing, and he threatened that his loss will be greater when
you are married, but the brash, daring, not afraid to charge me, and
closes eyes and lashes, and got married.

Today, with more courage than Cid will ask to my father is white hand, which will take the reins
and forced him out of step Canon mule and jump and be more clever than your beautiful black horse.

Doña
Luz, who could not hide his feelings, which showed on his face as
White pebbles through the clear water of a lake and gentle, rather
let see Although joy, knowing the new, already provided for her, the
marriage of his friend.

- How is that? - Continued the latter -.

Do you grieve me to marry? Do you feel the way informal? Do not you see it, simpleton? Do not fall
into that barbarous egoistón, Pepe Güeto, presumed and not without reason, to be a real boy, and all
the fury that has been and is still against me, lies that I had longed to love him so sad and so
serious, and I would since to sigh and mourn, not thinking only of him and not fun? Can not
you see it in love and rage that I do not think so in love or as capable of falling in love,
because I do not pout and do not get bored with tears and sublime? And do not calculate, finally,
I I love him too? If not, marry me? Once married, once the natural shrinkage that I save, I
will show my affection, and I'll see that it is a treasure in my soul, but hidden jokes and
joy, and when you see the treasure, and you enjoy, and know that it's yours, and better than
anything he could dream, must know that my heart is not cork but syrup and jelly, and has to
put such as jelly and syrup, and has to dance and laugh with pleasure, stating and confessing that
combine well the joys with true love, and laughter with ventura more serious and more serious in
the background.

Doña Luz, smiling and sighing at the same time, said then:

- It was not your kind concern for the cause of my sadness was my selfishness that after will achieve
victory. I feel that going to be happy and this I am glad, but I have jealousy for your friendship.
Why not confess? The only person I have gradually come to trust my heart and giving all my love,
you are. You, I admit, were paying me with interest, but now you have husband, and soon, perhaps,
have children, and all thy soul will be for them.

This poor orphan alone in the world, will be abandoned and without
a soul who understands and loves her.

Doña Manolita, tenderly embracing Dona Luz, said with these words:

- Although I did not have a thousand reasons to rejoice at my wedding, I glad, because I was excited
to declare your friendship now more explicit and as you've never done. I'm happy and proud that
both deem to friend me. Fear not you that neither Pepe Güeto, nor Güetillos that may shed some
light on what is to come, you steal that much of the soul I love you. Why, do you imagine the
chamber, corner, or place of my soul where the love of wife and mother, is filled or being filled
now, and formerly empty? Do you think that you love me did not exist before Pepe Güeto love? Go
if there was. What is is that then the boyfriend or husband, to whom I devoted, was dreamed,
made to order from mouth filled with perfection. The children, and I pretended I still pretend
they are a cherubim. As much as Pepe Güeto worth, not worth losing care or a hundred miles away,
I dreamed her husband. And as for the children, will be most noticeable difference, because
which have, if I have, as I hope and desire, not to be as clean and heavenly the imagined, but weeping,
naughty, dirty and stubborn, and I have to build up a thousand kennels
and should have between them a thousand cachetinas, all of which make
me not love them both.

Infer as I said, married and with children, you have to want more
than single, if you still love me you.

Even if you get married, will you let loving me?

- I'll never stop loving you - said Dona Luz -. I do not ever marry.

This last statement aroused much curiosity and interest of Mrs. Manolita,
and as privacy and confidence had reached its peak, there were many
secrets and revelations by Dona Luz, in a conference that its importance
merits a separate chapter.

-VI-

Dona Luz confidences

The doctor's
daughter led the confidences, telling Dona Luz:

- Why did not you
ever get married?

I do not deny, I know it is difficult but not impossible.

It's hard because these villages no boyfriend for you, and thou shalt not go for Groom to the big cities.
Not in your condition or your character go to find work, under the protection of an aunt,
you've neglected, or single and independent, now that you older.

- Useless is that I will answer - "Dona Luz -: you yourself answer
the question.

Our friendship, however, should be complete today. I want to give it the stamp of truth, not
taking secrets to you and opening my heart. I shall not fear, nor do I have to empty, or recesses
me on your concept, you have to show me the way I am. I will confess that anyone have confessed.