 Women, be strong, stand and crowded at the gates and
some of the neighboring rooms.

Golbasto was standing between two windows in the great room, facing the audience as a eagle
prepares to take flight. Momar smiling with his head down, feeling
Hurricane prematurely bent the wings of glory was about to descend
upon him.

As the national poet was always thinking about their business, even when pretending to favor
a friend coughed repeatedly to silence, and said:

- Since we wish to recite, allow that begins with the works of Father of the Masters. The great
Momar is not known as it deserves to be. There are many who are deceived with the best faith dividing
our national poetry into two kingdoms, one of which attributed to him and another to me. The
same add that Momar is inimitable and Golbasto love poetry in epic
poetry.

Error, huge mistake! Momar is great in all genres, and to prove I shall recite the heroic song to
the True Revolution inimitable work of which would authoring.

A burst of applause greeted the shameless flattery to the chief academic
and modesty interested the great poet.

- I recite that song heroic
- continued Golbasto - so you can see the difference between true
poetry and miserable and cynical counterfeits that are served to our
people perhaps at this very moment.

The allusion to the hated young poet who was reciting his work in the temple of lightning Black
was greeted with a burst of laughter sympathetic and intelligent
grunts.

After this preliminary success, Golbasto was released to the recitation of poetry by his friend
and protector.

     

The triumphant hymn to women's revolution began with a prologue, in which the poet begged the sun
to hasten his departure from the ocean foam and not arrive late and to witness the greatest event
in history. Golbasto launched with a clarion voice, the first verse:

Show yourself, oh, Sunshine! and with thy rays of gold ...

But instead
of showing the sun, as requested by the bard, which was the night
came unexpectedly in mid-afternoon.

The room was completely in the dark, all believed to have concurrent suddenly lost the hearing,
the mothers screamed with terror, spreading his arms instinctively to save their daughters,
the beautiful warriors laid their hands on their swords, but unable guess where the enemy was
hiding.

Some teachers accustomed to anything and not surprised to find the
scientific reason all the facts are realized after a few moments,
that this darkness was due to an outside release, to two massive curtains
that had fallen on both windows, interposed between their eyes and
light.

Momar wrists were scratched in the dark, wondering what the hell to service envious of its glory
had succeeded in creating this disaster ....

None of them thought that the man-mountain seat could be used as roof they had on their heads. In one
of his stretches of fatigue, had gathered Gillespie both legs, placing them casually, with
geometric accuracy on the two windows As the night suddenly created inside the room, precisely
the same time the poet invoked the sunrise.

After the first stunning surprise, eyes, accustomed to the darkness,
began to see weak, thanks to the dim light coming from the room immediately.

In addition, the slight movement of one leg of Gillespie leaked a ray of light, and this served
to everyone present would recognize what was the origin of the disaster.

Momar

was dumb, because the fact seemed so outrageous, I could not find words.

The guests burst into howls of outrage:

- Insolent animalucho! ... What audacity yours! ... Come to interfere with their legs party foul
high intellectuality! ...

A beautiful rose Guard officer, sword in hand, over chairs, and approaching
to a window threw a sword at the giant's leg.

Gillespie, who was half asleep, woke with a start. He raised one leg to put the ball at the
height results and scratched his chest with both hands he felt the
itch in the calf.

Then he dropped the leg again, and this, as if to obey a power Momar diabolical enemy, returned
to seal the window.

The crowd roared with anger, seeing in it a new insult for everyone.

Man-Mountain I wanted to make fun of them.

The military, eager to show his heroism to the children of marriageable
age, ran to the windows, peppering his giant calves steels.

Golbasto and Momar, infected by such heroic example, wanted to show that served to something else
to write poems, and took down a panoply a long spear.

They seemed outraged by this incident, which had come to disturb his glory, and holding four
hands the spear to puncture began to give a leg of the colossus.

This time the pain did jump to Gillespie, freeing the windows through which came to pour the
golden afternoon light.

Everyone could see Mountain Man crouched on his knees as he stooped
then his face contorted with pain, his eyes sticking to the two windows
to find out what evil insects were those who had crushed venom through
those holes.

The ladies were frightened to see those two big eyes that looked aggressive
peer.

But Golbasto and Momar, who had long and implacable anger of the weak when they feel wounded his vanity,
in collaboration continued driving his gun and shot a furious spear to one of the eyes that filled
the windows.

If Gillespie was not one-eyed, it was because the two poets, backing for his coup was more terrible,
diverted a little spear, tearing only one eyelid.

The man-mountain threw back his head, separating the eyes of the windows with a wink painful, but
immediately put her mouth on one of them.

There was a boil the kettle, then a sound of waterfall, and the crowd,
shouting, began to flee to the interior rooms.

Zas! ...

Gillespie, not knowing how to defend against evil swarm that had released a spittlebug in the classroom.

The
liquid projectile caught the two poets and brought down with his spear wrapped in a wave sticky,
which they did not know how to get out.

The giant continued to fire projectiles of the same species.

Ladies running, lifting their skirts to run faster. Other kicked falls on the floor, screaming
to get rid of this flood the bond that had nailed to the floor.

And the heroic girls Guard, not wanting to present their exciting
backs to the enemy, were retreating to the back of the room, making
pinwheels with their swords to defend themselves the bombing.

XI

That is the speech delivered by Senator Gurdilo and how the man-mountain changed suit

The, next morning, Professor Flimnap was long rush into housing the
giant.

Never had kindly offered his face looks like, alarm and bewilderment. Despite its lush meat, leapt
with youthful agility of the elevator to the surface plate the table, before the athletes responsible
for the crane had completed their maneuver.

Still far from Gillespie, opened his arms in despair and then joined
hands in an attitude pleading, crying

- What have you done, gentleman?

What madness was yours yesterday? And I believed him a man extremely sane! ...

I had never experienced so many emotions in such a short space of time. A fear overwhelmed dominated
him from hours before, and this fear was due to generous feelings, thinking More on the fate
of the Gentleman-Mountain than his own.

The terrible news of all occurred at the home of Father of the Masters had just surprised
at the most gratifying of its existence.

The day before he returned to the city late, after being feted and admired for several hours
over a hundred thousand women. His speech on the steps of the temple black lightning had heard
this huge crowd, interrupting him with applause. Its success was as loud as the young poet's
rival Golbasto.

Had never dreamed with such glory, even in times of adolescence,
when newly entered the studious life, his enthusiasm made him accept
the possibility of the most unprecedented elevations.

Slept badly, as the taste of his success seemed to repel the dream. But when dropped from his
university room, enjoying in advance the congratulations of some teachers and the envy of all his
pride broke triumphantly to reality. He heard the terrified The giant had done the previous
afternoon. Many of those who spoke had attended Momar to the talk show and they were still crowded
with indignation to remember giant shells, some of which had come
to splash them or to persons their families.

The Father of the Masters was in bed after this event, but without
known disease.

Golbasto, the great national poet, had retreated vowing revenge on the barbaric intruder.
The concurrent saw him with a bandage under his crown of laurel, for he had broken pate falling to
the ground under the trip Momar giant.

- What have you done? - Repeated the professor.

Many who witnessed the incident had forgotten the insolence of the man-mountain for concerned
only with the purpose of other action of his that seemed mysterious. After the giant crowd
was cleared from the halls of Momar, doing all the background to flee the house to escape the
bombardment liquid, raised his stature and went to a certain instead of the facade of the University,
releasing several shrill whistles with a hurricane.

Doctors scholars who stayed in their rooms trying to hide, believe
man-mountain that had gone mad and wanted to crush them.

But before closing windows of their homes could see how it ran on the roof a man wrapped in veils,
how the giant took one of his hands, putting it in a pocket of his suit, and how fast undertook
a march, led by this man unknown to the Gallery Industry, without waiting for the trumpets sounded
again and to meet the squad escorted him on his walk.

- What will happen now? - Continued the frightened teacher.

The gossips had been given to understand that the Father of the teachers suspected if intruder
would be helped by the giant Ra-Ra.

- I am afraid, gentleman, who by this time the police are aware that in fact the this man was
Ra-Ra and protected by you, came into our house to see her .... Popito
You, gentleman, mixing in political affairs of our country and support
in a way so brazen he a propagandist of the "male" enemy of peace
of the state!

Shiver I tremble for you and me.

Gillespie did not need to hear the teacher to realize the gravity of his act. But reborn their anger
to remember the sting of those pygmies, and believed still feel pain
her legs.

Why not sleep had left him alone? ...

However, the teacher's desperate gestures served to make him think he was humanity at the mercy
of that pygmy, despicable for him, but which could not feed or attend
to other care she needed him.

Flimnap, thinking she saw in his face a reflection of intense anger, recommended calm.

- Do not be exalted, gentleman, on the contrary, you should be prudent and conciliatory. I this will
be fixed eventually. Can you to apologize to the Father of the Masters. I explain that everything
is due to their ignorance of our language and our customs.

What worries me most is what Ra-Ra, but if no other remedy, and abandon the follow your destiny. Love
is selfish, gentleman.

Before you come to this land I had made the greatest sacrifices for the young. But now is not the same,
now you are here, and beyond anything I'm interested in him.

Professor seemed to have forgotten all the concerns that saddened him moments before, the jump-lift
plate. He had put his eye to a reduction lens to see Gentleman's face-Mountain, and this made
him smile sweetly.

- I think when the time - said insinuating voice - to show you my soul. While you were living sheltered
from dangers, I did not dare to say what I feel. Shyness possessed me anyone who has spent
his life among books, watching from afar to the people.

But after the madness of you, the situation is different. Perhaps the conflict with our Father in
Teachers will finally be fixed, but right now the situation is bad. You at large risks, and therefore
consider it appropriate to express what I had not dared to say a better chance. Listen well,
gentleman, and do not laugh at me .... I love him a little and I am interested in your happiness
.... Why not speak more clearly? ... I love you, gentleman, and want to spend the rest of my life
with you, dedicating his service at all.

Despite his bad mood for adventure in the University and by the persecution that could to experience
these Pygmies, of whom was a slave, Gillespie could not help but laugh. After stifled her laughter
to apologize politely

- Do not think, Professor, that I laugh at you.

I am very grateful for daring to such insolence. My laugh is a surprise .... In my country, rarely
a woman declares her love for man.

- Well here is extraordinary - said Flimnap -. Remember that all women go, and therefore for
us to the initiative in matters of love.

- Also - Edwin said - you forget the insurmountable obstacle that nature has established between
the two to create us with such different sizes.

I see you through your lens reduction and thinking I was excited for her size. Contémpleme as
I am, and be convinced that much I loved you would never be a wife of pocket.

- Oh, gentleman! - She interrupted plaintively -. Do not be materialistic in their views, not
display their feelings rude to judge people by their size.

Why not can love two souls through their containers completely different? ... Now that you I know,
gentleman, I realize that my whole life I've been waiting for his
arrival.

Always My soul felt the pull of the heights, always dreamed of something vastly larger. My
spirit viewed with indifference the pettiness of our everyday life.

I could only love a giant and the giant has come. Do not you think that a higher power has given
us to each other? ...

The Gentleman-Mountain just answered this question with an ambiguous gesture. But the hot teacher
continued:

- I do not demand that I respond immediately. I confess that this expression of my feelings
is a little violent and you did not expect. Except for the danger that threatens him, I had refrained
from talking about this for a long time. But in the end, what I should say already said. Think you
check your heart, wait for an answer.

What I needed let you know as soon as possible is that I am for you just a translator and
I look forward to participating of his fate, running their own dangers, if the situation worsens.

Gillespie,
holding back laughter again to shake his chest, he replied vaguely the passionate college. Obey his
instructions, study carefully preferences of his soul. But for now, the top priority was to
resolve the situation, which it claims seemed anxious.

- I shall leave you, gentleman - said Flimnap -. Anything with his remaining hand to hold pleasant
conversation, but that is sterile. I need to know news. Momar has powerful friends and must have
done something by this time against Ra-Ra. In addition, we must fear
the Golbasto.

Guess from here that his buggy pulled by three men, horses must be rolling Through the capital
since early morning. A screening will know what the dreaded poet! ...

Before disappearing for one of the hatches, still fell into the giant Flimnap to say quietly:

-
If you come to seek the Ra-Ra, not to strive to defend it, would be worse for him and for you.
Let abandoned to their fate. We must only think of our future. I always I believed that love
is not selfish not deserve the name of love.

And squinting eyelids caressing expression behind the glass of his
spectacles, the teacher disappeared down the ramp.

Only then will
the man-mountain lowered his eyes to look to himself, setting them
on his chest.

For the opening of his top pocket ajar saw head Ra-Ra, shrunk the substance of the shelter.

- Good you did it yesterday! - Giant said quietly, as if speaking to himself -. In Actually you're
to blame for everything that happened, in your damn idea to leave me alone go see .... Popito But
why not leave you, like me crazy Flimnap calls .... What the devil is this love that makes us
all make great nonsense, and even gives a grotesque to that poor woman so innocent and kind!
...

Giant eyes were resting on one side of the table club who had made during his trip to the jungle
of the emperors.

The presence of this primitive weapon you he smiled in a way disturbing to the Pygmies.

- I assure you, Ra-Ra - continued - the first people who come looking for you and annoy us at
risk of being killed.

But although this promise was barbaric, very much in Ra-Ra, it protested, poking his head recklessly
over the edge of the pocket.

- I believe it appropriate - said the pygmy - but in some time. Now it is useless. Must expect
our revolution ever closer.

Meanwhile, Flimnap ran the streets of the capital, learning of a series of news very disturbing
to him.

A teacher told him that Momar, for certain details that had reported some subordinates, was already
convinced that Ra-Ra was accompanying the giant. The Father of the Masters, accepting the suggestions
of his vanity, thought that men, the enemy of order, had suggested to the man-mountain discontinue
the idea of ??gathering at the precise moment that the great Golbasto recite his verses, to
take away and a big win literature. In the early hours of the morning had had a conversation
with Popito violent, which he denied having seen Ra-Ra in the top of the palace university. Then
the influential characters left his bed, and was now in the presidency of the Executive Board,
recommending without doubt the persecution of the revolutionary mascula.

Flimnap Shortly after he met a group of news from major newspapers,
which were seeking from hours earlier.

They wanted to know your opinion on what happened in the party Father of the Masters, but
he said in an ambiguous way. I would fain have answered roughly to those insatiable curiosity chasing
him at all hours, but the gratitude we forced to be polite. All the
newspapers spoke with praise of his speech at the temple black rays,
complaining of having unknown for many years to so eminent a speaker.

Gave
reporters a story that was the worst. Gurdilo announced his desire
to make a speech in the Senate to order the man-mountain barely opened
the session. Perhaps he was already talking scary at this hour.

Flimnap
ran the government palace, entering in the wing occupied by the Senate.
His love for Gillespie suggested the boldest decisions. The shy professor,
who just days before was incapable of the slightest initiative, now
in its audacity astonished. Thought to speak to Gurdilo, if it had
not yet begun his questioning the government. Not known, but few days
before he was a celebrity, which dealt a lot of newspapers, could
well afford the freedom to make a visit to a colleague of glory. Within
the Senate, to ask for the famous orator, he was convinced that he
had arrived late. Gurdilo was already in the chamber and did not allow
visits distracting him while preparing mentally its awful speeches.

The
professor went to one of the grandstands for the public, looking down
between midwives forming the Senate, the fearsome Gurdilo, towards
which all eyes converged.

Flimnap poor never suffered torture equal
to that of listening to this person confusion between the public and
unable to answer. After his victory in the temple of lightning black
considered as tribune like the famous healer, but here was nothing
more than a mere listener that could be jailed if he dared to alter
his breaks the stillness of the majestic assembly.

She Senate, with
the face yellower than ever, the grim look, bent nose and a hissing
voice, attacked Gillespie for a long time, trying to match their shots
colossus rebound should fall on the high lords of the Executive Council.

He
made the history of all man-mountain who had come to the country in
the course of centuries. The first, according to the testimony of
ancient writers, ended up being a traitor to the Empire Liliput given
him hospitality, as it was with those of Blefuscu, which were then
enemies. In addition, returning to his monstrous home, posted as news
brought vague by Eulame, a book in which he ridiculed all Lilliputians.

Giants
who arrived later were barbaric and vicious people without college
education and a stomach capacity that had caused great shortages and
famines in the nation. Committed such excesses, which finally had
to delete.

And when it was accepted as a prudent measure to kill
these intruders, which were presented from time to time, with the
regularity of an epidemic, came the last man-mountain, and Executive
Council, taking off from tradition, he gave life. 

Here Gurdilo began
to speak ironically of the enormous influence that few teachers lines
and manufacturers had over the current government.

- Was enough -
he said - a poor pedant who teaches at the University on the useless
language of the man-mountain, which can serve anything, has been sufficient,
I repeat, they discovered such a giant pocket-sized book any of us,
with some lines crazy, typical of large animals, so that all false
intellectuals dominate our university organization, and are paid excessively
by the government, they saw a chance to assert their influence to
protect this huge intruder as a partner letters. And the high lords
of the government, before taking office had known nothing reading
the journal every morning, have taken the opportunity to be a false
importance of intellectual, obeying the instructions of his proteges
who monopolize University.

"I do not want to talk to the illustrious
Senate of expenditure from which the man-mountain from living among
us. This will be a speech utter another day, when you comprehensive
statistical data that I gathered