 When it is weighed the merits of one, and expresses surprise because luck has
not been favorable, it is passed from one computer to another very different one, you want
some effects come from causes that have nothing to do.

Observe carefully to these two men so unequal in wealth, reflect on qualities of both, behold
especially if you can make the experience in a business view lies with the two, and you will
not be difficult to infer that this prosperity as the ruin of a the
other, born of very natural causes.

The one speaks, writes, plans, estimates, give thousand returns to the objects, all evidence, to
all answers, takes over a thousand advantages, disadvantages, hopes, dangers, in a word exhausted
the subject, nothing left to say it or even think. And what does the other? Can you to sustain
the dispute with his opponent? no. "Undo all the calculations that the first ends stacking?
no. Does it meet all the difficulties to which the opinion is opposed by the opponent? no.
In support of his opinion "copy of reasons such claims as its adversary?
no. To achieve the object, what features projects as varied and ingenious?
no. What does it the unfortunate ignorant, fought, harassed, bullied
by his formidable antagonist?

- What I replied V. to this, says the
man in the projects, and knowledge?

- Nothing, but what do I know
?....

- But, do not seem to V. conclusive my reasons?

- Not really.

-
Let's see, do you have V. something to oppose to this calculation?

It is a matter of numbers, here no more.

- Now you see, what is the role goes well and the problem I have is
that in practice same thing happening.

V. Account with many items, that I'm not quite sure, I'm so chastened
....

- But certainly V. data provided to us?

What there will be interest in deceiving? If there is a loss, we
will not be alone, and part of it that we provide the news.

They are knowledgeable, honest, versed in business, and also have interest it, what more do you
want? What reason is there to doubt?

- I do not doubt anything, I think what V. said of these gentlemen, but what do you want? business
I do not like. Also there are so many contingencies that V. does not take into account ....

-
But what eventualities, sir? if you stick to a simple can be, nothing
will carry on; every business has its risks, but here again I fail
to see any with hints probability.

- V. understands more than me,
says crude shrug, and then wisely wagging Head adds: no sir, I repeat
that I do not like business, I for one do not get into it; V. insists
that it should be so profitable speculation, congratulations, see
above.

I not venture my funds.

The victory in the discussion is without doubt the designer, but who is right? Experience will tell.
The rich apparently so stupid, you look less lively than his antagonist, but instead see clearer,
more deeply, in a safer, more insightful, more accurate.

Can not is true, opposing data to data, reflections to reflections, calculations to calculations,
but the discernment touch that characterizes him, unwrapped by observation and by experience,
we are say with certainty that many data are imaginary, that the calculation is inaccurate,
that do not take into account many unfortunate eventualities, not
only possible but very probable; its insightful look has discovered
evidence of bad faith in some involved in the business, his memory
well stocked with news about the behavior in earlier cases, we guide
to assess the true value of intelligence and probity, who praised
him so much the designer.

What cares not to see So if you see better, with more clarity, distinction and accuracy? What cares
about the lack of this facility to think and speak, well adapted to show off, but very barren in good result,
as irrelevant to the object in question?

§ VII.

Observations. The reverie and good sense.

The liveliness is not penetration: the abundance of ideas, not always
brings clarity and accuracy of thought, the readiness of the trial
is often suspected of error, a long number of reasoning too clever,
often suffers from fallacies, which break the wire the inference,
and go astray to be reliable in them.

It is not always easy task to point out these defects to fixed point,
mostly when the facundo have is a brilliant storyteller who develops
his ideas in a stream of beautiful words.

Human reason is by its very thoughtful, have certain qualities as
men to intended to dazzle, to present objects from the point of view
that suits them or the concern that it is not uncommon to experience,
good opinion, the destination, can not answer to a cloud of specious
arguments other than: "this does not go well, these rationales are
not inconclusive; here is illusion, time will manifest.

"

And there are more good things that they feel they do not know, the need to be seen but not tested,
because there are delicate relations, minutiae are almost imperceptible, which is not possible
to show the speech to those who do not discover at the first glance,
there are points very fleeting view, that in vain looking for who
has failed to put them in the right time.

§ VIII.

Delicacy of intellectual phenomena in their relations with practice.

In the exercise of intelligence and other faculties of man, there
are many phenomena that not expressed any word with no sentence, no
speech, understanding that the experience is also necessary to experience
them, and sometimes is just wasted time which is used to give the
impression, as if a man wanted to force view of explanation, give
an idea of ??the colors to a blind man.

This delicate phenomena abound in every act of our intelligence, but it shows in a particular
way in what is related to the practice. So, should not be abandoned the mind to empty abstractions,
fantastic systems can not be formed purely conventional is necessary
to take things as he does not imagine or want, but as they are, otherwise,
when making the transition from idea to object, will be at odds with
reality and will be baffled all his plans.

Add to this that in the case of the practice, especially in the relations of men with others,
does not affect only the understanding, but others operate simultaneously faculties. There
is only the communication of understanding with understanding, but of heart with heart, to more
than the interplay of ideas, there is also the feelings.

§ IX.

The folly.

The advantage is more gifted in the powers of the soul, if he meets other that either lack any
of them, or have them in lower level, is in the same case that those
who have completed the senses with respect to who is deprived of any.

If you remember these observations, it will save much time and effort, and even trouble in treatment
of men. Laughter sometimes cause its helpless to see how certain
people by away to others of a misjudgment, or make them understand
some truth.

Maybe hear in a solemn conversation with the greatest folly that
serenity and good faith of the world.

Is present a person of good sense, and is shocked and replies, and
sharpens his speech, and strives thousand arguments for the folly
understands its absurdity, and this in spite of everything, not convinced,
and remains so happy, so happy, reflections of his opponents do dent
in his mind unmoved.

And this why? Are you missing news? no. What it lacks in that point is common sense. His natural
disposition, or habits, we have made so, and that strives to convince should think that anyone
who has been able to pour a blunder as complete, can not understand
the power of impeachment.

§ X.

Twisted minds.

There are certain understandings that seem naturally defective, they have the misfortune see everything
under a false view or inaccurate or extravagant. In this case there is no madness, or monomania,
the reason can not say upset, and good sense did not consider the men short of trial. Are often
distinguished by an insufferable talkativeness, effect the speed of perception, and the ease
of reasoning baste.

Hardly anything deemed correctly, and if you enter the right track
soon be dragged away from it for their own speeches.

It happens often see in their reasoning a fine view they make a real
and solid building, the secret is incontestable that have given a
fact uncertain, or doubtful, or inaccurate, or entirely false, or
have settled principle eternal truth of a proposition for free, or
actually taken by a hypothesis, and so have raised a castle that has
no other defects to be in the air.

Rash, hasty, not doing If the reflections of all who hear, no guide to his twisted reason, driven
by their discourse and talk itching, drawn, so to speak, in the turbid stream of own ideas and
words, completely forget the point of departure, not realizing that build everything is purely
fantastic, for lack of foundation.

§ XI.

Inability of these men for business.

No worse for business men; unfortunate case that they put their hand; But many times themselves, if
their things are left to their own and exclusive address. The main skills are a good practical understanding
maturity trial, good sense, tact, and these qualities are lacking to them. When it comes to
come to reality, we must not focus only on the ideas, but think of the objects; and these men
are forgotten almost always of single objects and deal with their ideas. In the practice is
necessary to think, not what things should or could be, but what
are, and they tend to stand less on what they are, that they could
or should be.

When a man of clear understanding and right view, is trying a case with one that is vitiated
by the defects just described, is in the greatest perplexity. What that is clear, that it is
dark, so the first thought out of the question, the second looks to be very disputable. The judicious
raises the question in a way that seems very natural and simple, brooding looks differently,
it would seem that two men of which have a sort of intellectual strabismus puzzled and confused
the seeing and looks good.

§ XII.

This birth defect intellectual ground a moral cause.

Reflecting on the causes of such aberrations, it is not difficult to see that the origin is in the
heart rather than head. These men tend to be extremely vain; self-esteem misunderstood inspires
the desire to be singled out at all, and at last come a habit to get away from what others think
and say, that is, to put in contradiction with common sense.

The proof that delivered naturally at its own understanding does not look so erroneously objects,
and that the fall in ridiculous aberrations rather be a desire to be singled become a habit,
is often distinguished by a spirit of constant opposition. If the defect was in the head, there
would be no reason for that in almost all matters they held when the others did not say yes,
and they were by themselves when the others are by no, is worthy
of note that sometimes there is a safe way to carry them the truth,
and is sustaining the error.

I agree that often they do not realize everything they do, they have no conscience well clear
of the inspiration of the vanity that drives them and subdues, but the unfortunate inspiration not
cease to exist, or ceases to be remediable if there are those who tell it, mostly if age, social
status and flattery, there have been evil to the bitter end. And no wonder favorable opportunities
that arise to warn with some fruit, for those men recklessness, tend
to attract upon himself bitter disappointment, if not disgrace, and
then dejected by adversity, and taught by painful experience, often
have lucid intervals that can exploit a sincere friend to let them
hear the advice of a sensible reason.

For the rest, when a cruel reality has not yet come to disabuse them, when their unreason accesses
are given without measure to the vanity of their projects, there is often another means to resist
them be silent, with folded arms, and shaking his head, suffering with stoical impassive Avenue
impetuous their risky propositions, their reasoning incoherent, its outlandish schemes.

And by the way that it always causes impassive occasionally salutary
effects: because the desire for play ends when no one can replicate,
there is no opposition when no attacks.

That's not unusual to see those men to herself little time to overwhelm with his loquacity
who do not answer, and admonished by the eloquence of silence, dispense with their annoying petulance.
They are restless and ardent souls who live for conflict and that in turn needs contradiction:
if there is not, stops the struggle, and if they strive to understand, very soon fussing when they
notice that far from dealing with an enemy determined to fight, preying
in whom has been given as a victim in the interests of unwelcome verbiage.

§

XIII.

Christian humility in its dealings with worldly business.

Christian humility, that virtue which makes us know the limits of our strength, we reveal our own
defects, we are not allowed to exaggerate our merit, or exalted on the other, we do not despise
anyone aware that inclines us to take advantage of advice and example of all, even the lower,
which makes us look like frivolous unworthy of a serious mind walking
in search of applause, the flavor in the smoke of flattery; let us
not ever believe we have arrived at the summit of perfection in any
sense, not blind us to the point of not seeing how much we have to
advance, and the advantage we have others that virtue which is the
truth well understood, but the truth for knowledge of who we are,
our relationships with God and men, the truth to guide our behavior
so that we do not misplace the exaggerations of self-love that virtue,
again, is very useful in everything pertaining to the practice, even
in purely worldly things.

Yes, Christian humility, instead of some sacrifices, produce great benefits, until on the most
distant of devotion. The superb shopping dearly own satisfaction; and does not warn the victim
that sacrifices to the idol that has risen in his heart, are sometimes their dearest interests,
the same glory after so desolate that run.

§ XIV.

Damages which the vanity and pride.

Ajan many reputations, if not destroyed, by the miserable vanity! How is dissipated the illusion
that inspired a great name, if you find yourself to approach him
with a person only speaks of herself!

Many men, moreover recomendabilísimos, tarnish, and even become an object of ridicule, by a
tone of superiority, which clashes and angry, or attracts the poisoned darts of satire! Many businesses
are bent on dire, steps are disastrous are discredited or lost, only because they have given to
his own thinking in a way exclusively, without giving any importance
to the Council, the reflections or indications those who watched more
clear, but they had the misfortune to be looked up and down, to a
immense distance, and that god mind that dwells there in the great
empyrean made his vanity, did not deign to descend to the tiny region
where dwells the multitude of modest deadly!

And why did he need to consult anyone? The elevation of his understanding, security and success of
his trial, the force of his penetration, the extent of his foresight, sagacity combination thereof,
are not things already proverbial? The success of all businesses it has involved, who should
but him? If very serious difficulties have been overcome, Who but he has exceeded them? If
everything is not spoiled their peers, who would but he has avoided? What thought has conceived of some
importance that has not conceived him? What have been the other occurrence that far in advance
I would not have had him? What would have served as excogitating others, if I had not rectified
amended, illustrated, enlarged, directed it?

Contemplate him, his face seems to threaten the lofty sky, his eye requires urgent submission and
compliance, on his lips hovers disdain everything around him, in
all its features you will see brimming with complacency in himself,
the affectation of his gestures and mannerisms I present a man full
of himself, which comes with excessive composure, as if afraid to
spill.

Take the word, resignaos to shut up. "Replicais? not hear your replies and continues on his way;
"Insist again? the same disdain, accompanied by a look that demands attention and requires silence.