 Everything about her, rather
than fiction, has traces of a transcript of things that have been witnessed, not for nothing
that invented, but on events and people who are remembered. And yet, of such events and persons
that appear vulgar to start the story, emerges and evolves after the charming poetry.

Don Antonio, the main character, the owner of the four pennies, we are shown at the beginning shy,
spoiled with riches, selfish and even perverted and vicious, it dragged violent passions,
but by weakness of character.

The interest of this curious novel, what makes us really nice, is not the transformation or change,
because nothing changed or transformed, but the emergence becoming clearer and more shiny
goodness, nobility and sweetness of the soul of D. Antonio, who is throwing little little miseries
and vices of weakness made, and ends up shining in her nakedness
spiritual, clean, immaculate, rich in caring affections.

The moral worth of at sight insignificant D. Antonio will rise gradually that, in our opinion,
is transfigured and appears surrounded by nice glow.

Your generosity, misused first, and in light women, and to sustain in leisure and debauchery
to the shameless parasite Pepe Carranza, wise leadership is beginning to take grace to love,
without any semblance or shadow of lust that inspires Soledad, faithful
and honest housekeeper.

Extreme goodness is after the heart of D. Antonio when collect child Angelito, providentially
come to place themselves under his protection, and is the son of Soledad and Anarchist Isaiah, who
had to flee and emigrate to Buenos Aires.

Parental love feels D. Antonio for the child that has been collected, but is Soledad worth of
skill or cunning to pick you up and love him, Mr ago Antonio worthy of veneration and sympathy.

And
well reasoned further examination of conscience that makes D. Antonio crossing point about
his past life and recognizing how sorrow and regret is useless and
sterile, will enhance and purify it in our eyes, puts far top of the
four pennies, that before candidly boasted, and he also raised about
the miserable and interested persons around him: on the parasite Pepe
Carranza and their relatives loathe Teodora and Ricardo, who longed
to inherit and finally he inherited.

Again, this novel of the four pennies virtue triumphs in the world. Teodora and Ricardo are
those who succeed. It can be said that they who trouble to kill D. Antonio.

The end of the novel can not be more tragic. If only considering the material and external
Life can not be more pessimistic. Soledad is helpless, and almost accused of thievery dishonored.
Her husband, who has returned from Buenos Aires and has taken part
in a huge riot popular, died of a gunshot captaining the mob.

And the good D. Antonio, no person friend to care for him, and among the rapacious clutches
of their infamous cousins, unfortunately just his life.

But the singularity of this, which proves that style, beliefs and feelings the narrator and the
skylight that illuminates perhaps the most cruel and higher Disasters can exchange the evil
into good and make the poison antidote is that Angelito and Soledad,
as hapless materially, are worthy of envy and glory, and poor D. Antonio,
who at the beginning of the novel almost gives us is the object of
scorn and laughter and fun, just to be loved and revered by readers.

He let in the minds of them must be read after the novel is heartbreaking nor depressive, but full
of soft and religious consolation and truer morality and higher. And when this does not preclude,
but agrees and arranges to entertainment pleasant to work in this class have to bring with
you (because if you were bored moral, morals become immoral, as it would morally odious),
these works deserve applause and meet business and discreetly in order to be proposed novelist, delighting
and teaching time, not annoy the spirit, without giving us a hard
time, not sad or oppress hearts