 His meditation
of religious broke with his thoughts of man, and if a strong desire or fear of danger brought
the prayer to his lips, and the thoughts of the sacred severe Prayer slid a woman's name, entering
his image among gay; austere reflections, like a magician come in a choir of monks.

IX.

Josephine entered the room of the Duchess really determined to discover the inclination to Felix
felt his mother asking for help could be a decent man home, but against Margarita energy and resolution
were on the ground; began to mourn, and faltered amid fears that had been proposed that clear. The
Duchess, kissing her affectionately, dried her tears, he heard the confession of budding love,
and dismissing her request with tenderness, took her to the door
of his cabinet, ensuring that the interview as short possible.

Left alone, the Duchess cried too, but not with the tears peaceful
and pure girl, but bitter, bitterly, with tears in late spring and
sear to slip his face.

Determined to speak with her husband, asking if he was sent home, and when answered that the Lord
had not left, he walked into the office, where he found the Duke browsing the Senate rules. Caused
him to stop reading, and addressing the issue head told that by his own interest, not to sin of ingratitude
and Josephine Grace, it was necessary Felix Hamlet return as before frequenting the house.
Examinose between spouses of the question, and the Duke, who already was fond of everything
that had taste of discussion took the opportunity, talking at length about their honor and prestige,
it does not hurt your stay dignity, and another portion of that would
have made things any gossip, words, words words.

Finally, Margarita, with that touch that only women have, resolved the difficulties by proposing to
give a dance to celebrate the senate, being sent to Felix, as usual, corresponding invitation,
which, after what happened, came to be as a satisfaction without disgrace the offender could
make amends to the victim. Accepted the idea, Margarita left Duke to continue its consideration
of the Rules of High House, and back to his room, after have closed the door carefully to avoid
being suddenly startled, made into a chair, leaned against one of his elbows wide arms, and hiding
his face with , letting the tears bursting through her rosy fingers, frowning and red eyelids,
looked thoughtful, and nobody could find to see if that lady was
a mother who imposed a sacrifice or a woman whose jealousy harassed.

      

* * * * *

It fixed the day of the party, and began preparations. The tapestry and adorned took possession
of the rooms that had to be checked, he built a gallery foliage which put in communication
the main hall of the ground floor with spacious conservatory glass in the rose garden; cubriéronse
iron columns entwined litter, were hung from the ceiling of glass apparatus for gas were put
in angles the best sculptures in the house, making the white marble highlight on funds dark foliage
lanterns were prepared for the booths in the park, God order in the kitchen for dinner was sumptuous,
rushed all the treats you can gold suit the taste, and a legion of artisans invaded the palace for many
days, arranging things so that when two hours before the Dukes inspected dance all preparations,
the new senator, lolling on a couch with the dignity his inauguration,
and looking at his wife with conceited satisfaction, exclaimed: -
"He'll be fine."

And it was. From eleven in the evening a long line of cars was slowly leaving the Palace lobby
hundreds of guests, ladies, wrapped in delicious wraps, got out of their sedans and Clarens,
coquettishly revealing footwear feet rested a moment in the stirrup, while with his hand, gloved
to the elbow, picked up the long tail adorned with valuable lace, the servants were ordered to
return at dawn, the and curious onlookers, parked across the street, watched those doing great things
comments, suggested by the beauty of women or the envy of wealth, the halls were filling, and heat
and lights agglomeration was engendered lively and colorful faces. Here we heard praises of the homeowners,
said out loud, there were grouped others mumble censorship; about looking for acquaintances,
greeted all the Dukes, the more serious or curious discussed in the classroom immediately
collected works of art with exquisite taste, luxury or books, put on the tables of very rich deposits;
and young people, together with the old Gayelette, standing in the door, spent reviewing the
entering, changing handshakes, saying compliments or looks that seemed to receive signs.

A little past midnight the room offered such an appearance of luxury and wealth, joy reigned appear
to have much sway over the souls of all those people, so much enjoyment was reflected on their
faces, that it seemed that nobody had that joyous mob who knew grief or pain.

They, bound with tight outfits that oppress to model the shapes, with their long skirts pinned flowers
and lace, with their crowns with jewels on the forehead, beauty print in the face and joy in their
eyes, received the homage of convoluted sentences, not always frank with his worshipers tried
to take them. They dressed the harsh and unfriendly tails, were struggling to reach some of the most
effect caused, for on the floor displaying his wit, looking almost insolently at married, flirting
with the prevention widows, and trying to inquire the dowry of singles. Towards the end of the
hall could be seen some couples themselves busier than the others, in which she seemed resigned
to grant what she wanted to grant, as he persisted in asking what later was to tired. Ran
in a circle of politics, it was said quietly scandal week, speaking in his ear and in secret
the names of the protagonists. A gentleman surreptitiously approached to adjoining rooms,
watching the moment to reach out vegueros delicious spread on silver trays. The music dominated
intervals The buzz of conversation, the atmosphere was loaded until it becomes annoying, the
temperature increased; the parched environment of the room seemed to struggle with fresh penetrated
the garden by the broad balconies in soft bursts, and among the sea of ??light or whirlpool color,
the odor was perceived that were the aromas of flowers, perfumes toiletries and the heat of the sweaty
bodies.

The duchess, surrounded by her most intimate rivals of whoever received
the accolades came tribute to his good taste, almost all cut from
the same pattern, very few clever or well said.

His suit was the subject of gossip among the ladies, admiration among men. The dress of white
satin, whose sculptural folds the light was broken as a flexible marble had arrived from Paris
that morning, and both wearing black pearls the ears were worth a fortune. Beside his mother, Josefina
seemed the new outbreak of beautiful flower: she was like the roses that have exhausted their
finery pump deploying all its petals to the light touch, she, like those buds starting parted
to spread his scent around soft and weak. Her dress was white too, but in the headdress and lit,
the flowers replaced wings jewelry.

The stirring excitement that made her more beautiful. Anxious and upset, constantly looking
everywhere, wondering: - will not come?

Answered as briefly as I could disdainful and dismissive, and occasionally looked fondly at
her mother, who first appeared avoid the eyes of his daughter.

Finally, the girl was in love go to Felix, who, hailing the move to
different people, came to the Duchess, changed both simple phrases
of courtesy, then went near Josephine and a moment later saw them
confused between groups of couples who seemed crazy impelled to move
by the notes of a waltz by Strauss.

Lazarus was picked up and read when it came to his ears the lively bustle of the holiday. Then
closed the book, opened the balcony and the cool night breeze brought
him clear and separate the passionate phrases of music, as if the
world, with the voice of Mermaid I would like to wrest from loneliness.

Fell into the garden, approached a fence, and hid in a bushes whose branches intertwined climbing
the thick iron bars, held out overlooking the living room. His look is all encompassing. After
a moment, became the surprise in amazement, his eyes dazzled by the clarity, the groups were
discovering, isolating the figures, looking at the faces, seeing emerge from a confused sea
of ??lights and colors forms and the appearance of things. The cliques formed as soon dissolved,
the strange amalgam that produced in the table the black suits of the men standing on light
dresses of the women continued to move from shadows that crossed to the fence, cutting off his
view, the infinite variety of attitudes, the state of the spirits reflected in faces, testifying
in one of indifference, in another of jealousy, showing the cold here of apathy, there's nervous
impatience, all that set of riches for him unknown luxury ignored, he produced a strange impression,
strong because it was new and powerful it was continuous. The sight of this ceaseless movement,
light glinted in gems and necklaces, ladies, a fresh-faced and wild flowers, withered other
by cosmetics or years, decorated with silks of all shades, bare backs and breasts to own attempt revealed
how little they covered the ceiling, the sultry air and flawed that escaped through the gate, stun the
priest had finished, but why stop looking forward, thinking every moment to discover new smite
your imagination calm down his agitated nerves. There was a time when the music switched off
all other noise; rhythm and melodic sound of the notes seemed to crawl like dawn of spring planting
of roses turns subdued and languid sweetest chord suddenly were exchanged in fools gladly explosion
sounds, and harmonies were scattered like flying sighs to take refuge in the folds of the broad
draperies, producing combinations rare that were lost, some involved among other twists, like
rustling silk and burst kisses tablets. The couples were gliding swiftly to the gate in wild
confusion, disappearing and turning to pass which figures of a magic lantern, until silence suddenly
the orchestra and that rapid movement suspended, Lazarus saw him coming, still impelled by the
last lap of the waltz, one woman and one man, Felix and Josephine. He the encircled her waist
drawing her to feel confused breaths as she completely abandoned, drifting. They came to where
he was the priest, and unemployed the girl, moving the range of pearl and lace at her agitated
breast, leaned on the arm Village, while he whispered in her ear a sentence, paid to smile
sorceress world. Lazarus, holding tightly to the railing, looked not caring to be seen, without
thinking had not seen eyes for each other. Beside himself, agitated by a feeling unknown to
him, all the bitterness felt rush of human suffering, and as if your blood boil and ferment
crowding to obscure that poor brain, the idea of ??hatred stood In the terrible and powerful.
There was no crime or shame then that no one believed capable of committing; and measuring
the speed of thought with his innocence, greater even than his misery, he wondered, a wicked
start, if it was divine justice that tolerated the torment.

Under the priest's cassock for the first time pulsed in the heart of man's pulse wrong. The
minister of God suffered as the creatures of clay, and soul of immaculate purity, his gentleness,
his kindness evangelical point was overthrown by anger, hatred and revenge. The one time it
seemed more than ever created by the Lord with his bone bone and flesh of his flesh, promised
by the desire and nature to be satisfied of his love, the woman who was the emblem of his ideal and
his happiness was in the arms of another. Those irons that separated them and that he unnecessarily
shaking with impotent force, were their own votes and that supreme
moment of his life, the solemn ratification of the infamous law that
said: "Do not love it."

Feeling dying, he dropped his arms in dismay, and all his anger was dissolved in two tears rolled
slowly down her face burned. There are souls who instinctively reject evil. Hatred passed without
stopping on the spirit of Lazarus as the drop of water sliding by the hot iron. Forces lacked,
and while the happy sounds of the party, converted into mysterious voices in fantasy, they called
him wanting to get drunk on scents of unknown pleasures, he yielded ground, breathless.

The dance was at its greatest moments of brilliance, and animation,
generated by the crowd, resulted in a continuous murmur, which could
just dominate from unequal intervals the orchestra brass instruments.

The room looked like a focus of intense clarity. The shaking gas flames were reproduced to
infinity in the large Venetian mirrors, to multiplying images, creating a strange confusion and
disorder began to reign itself that all place to have fun at the same time. Inside there were all
joys and sorrows, was not was nothing but silence and shadow, a man on land, wounded soldier
bleeding in the battlefield, and a sky of deep blue, almost black, starry, which since its immeasurable
looked up with thousands of eyes, so indifferent to the pleasures
of some as to misery of others.

The precursors of the day light breezes began to frolic among the trees with leaves waving branches softly,
and a bird, revealed by the unusual noise, flapped its wings chirping happily, and confounding from
its hidden nest luminaries celebration with glow of dawn.

X.

Served dinner, which was wonderful, the guests began to leave happy and satisfied as people who
had accomplished his mission.

The noise caused those who were leaving, saying goodbye with joyous laughter, and wet with cold vapor
dew, did Lazarus back itself the length fainting while waiting for the last groups in the
spacious lobby and in the foreground of the garden, the arrival of their carriages.

The men, heavily clothed with Russian overcoats or between the fold
of the layers, smoked placed in rows, watching the ladies who came
down the marble stairs, whispering or covering the bare shoulders
or showy expensive shawls wraps.

Some have covered their cleavage cashmere sweat with a hundred colors, others are wrapped between
skunc skins, the blue fox and marten zibelina, this answer to a greeting, a look between those seeking
the crowded faces, all seemed at the time beautiful and happy, though many apparently without
be-all had something to say or had given something to envy.

Some men walking slowly, divided into groups or pairs, listening the distance for a long time the
sound of cars rolling in the deserted streets when was beginning to dawn on the day and ran sleepy calm,
bluff to bluff, off gas burners.

The priest, hidden in the shadows of the garden, watched them go, waiting to come out of hiding
that would have been all away when he noticed that not far from each other, between the branches
of a bush and near a fence, a man who undoubtedly purposely stayed
behind, and that suddenly moving carefully, cautiously crept along
the house, to penetrate there by a service door, that because the
ball was still open that night.

Lazarus then tried to scream, but the wonder voice drowned him in the throat, because to become
met to enter such a suspicious manner that entered the palace of the dukes and that man was Felix
Hamlet, the same few moments before had brought forth the Josefina lips a smile of happiness.

Quickly
climbed the ladder, and the priest was released on his watch, but
this one was far front.

On reaching the main floor, Hamlet, always spied Lazarus, crossed the aisle deserts, and through
the gallery that separated the rooms of the Duke of his wife and daughter, entered a room, which
flowed wing two corridors, one leading to quarter of the Duchess, and one that led to Josephine.
The door of that room was closed, but Hamlet just before it stopped, tapping with his knuckles, a
the leaves quietly opened out, showing a woman's arm wrapped around her a red silk sleeve. Village
came, and arm themselves attracted the door, which was once again instantly closed, while Lazarus,
pale and trembling, and fastened the feet on the ground, listening away, not knowing in what
sense the footsteps of two people, who walked on tiptoe produce no noise on the marble floor.

What
to do in such a horrible situation?

Who to call for help? Who to call? Discouragement I had a lot of helplessness and despair something
snatched away, and fearful of being seen, fled from the door, behind which was broken forever
the most beautiful of his illusions. In addition, together with the imperative mandate consciousness
imposed on it, felt his pulse in soul hesitation engendered by the surprise, suspicion treacherous,
but logically suggested by jealousy. Which meant an angel was female, and nothing else was not
worth the heart of a befit man, or that he loves her, but his indulgence of a priest trying
to redeem or apology. In the fall it got the blame for the way of premeditation; her lover
tried stepping back to the home of his parents, and trembling with love, agitated by desire, he should
expect to receive in his arms.

Wandering in this way, accepting as good despite the clumsy cravings,
piety was left in the soul of Lazarus fully erased by the irresistible
force of jealousy, to the extent that fear of making public the event,
fear of scandal and even the horrible idea of ??seeing the daughter
disgraced in the eyes of his mother, became this man hindrances created
by malice to evade duty.

* * * * *

The day after the dance, and late in the morning, it was noted in the palace of the Dukes lack
of movement inherent in any house where the late hours of the masters long authorizes little
raised up early. Some of them, gathered at the gatehouse, were run still rubbing his eyes, making
comments of the party, talking and cursing. Other arrangements repairing the mess halls that
had produced the guests. The cook, followed by a tap on his shoulder a large basket, crossed
the garden take the path of the square.

The groom, shoes clogs and singing a song of their land, the harness rubbing on the door of
the garage, and a plant room floor next to a window, the Duchess's maid dresses carefully cleaned
that his wife had decorated the day before, while others admired the rich companions finest
fabrics and laces, disorderly placed on the back of a couch, could easily be seen from outside.

Lazarus,
as usual, was down to the garden, and his book in his hands, walk
up, ride down, walked slowly on the stove distance between crystals
and the gate input, repeatedly going to the bars of the ballroom.

      Faced with one of them matched pair casually, and through the thick
bars was forsaken and deserted the same place where a few hours before
it was all animation and bustle.

The gold chairs and silks were removed, and remembering that even the corridors were seat,
the crystals obscured by dust from a night of continuous movement; forgotten on a chair a fan;
the candles on the chandeliers, dripping hurry up on the velvet and marble covering consoles, had
blown up with any of the expiring flame glass washers. The doors to put in a classroom with
other communication were open, revealing, feigned by mirrors, the prospect of a deep gallery,
enclosed in gilt frames, images formed with fabrics or tapestries, multiplying, reproduced
to confuse view with his last term hesitant and confused. The sun's rays penetrated by between
seams of curtains, settling in slippery drops the mist fogged glass, and then settling traits
or shreds of light color on the ceilings. On the ground, confused with the carpet, had been trampled
upon the odd flower and withers.

- "So they," - thought to see Lazarus, and turning his eyes to the
book, he continued his walk up to the window where I was the maid,
who was humming to distract his work a low voice a polka style.

Oyola the priest, and looked at her, his eyes stopped on the garment that she was holding: a rich
satin gown in a bright red, the same red that Lazarus had seen in the arm last night slammed the
door where Hamlet was expected. His surprise was great. His thought refused to believe what
His eyes said. That girl was the maid of Margaret of civet, and as Joseph had their bondage aside,
it made sense that his clothes were also of the Duchess. Hesitated time, daring and finally
wanted to see resolved suspicion.

- Who are these costumes? - Asked the maid.

- Who should be, - said the girl, - but the Duchess? This, - he pointed a gorgeous dress and
a magnificent coat, - is the clothing that Ms. led yesterday to ride, and this red satin gown,
- he added - is what has been the early morning after the dance. Certainly who insisted on staying
reading, not wanting me to lie down or undress. Must have veiled until late in the day because
it is, of haggard and broken, giving disgust her.