 The
beautiful gothic cathedral and other public buildings make it interesting in the eyes of the artist
the simple yet curious traveler. It has many notable institutions, including an excellent library
(40,000 volumes) and museums of painting and sculpture, natural history, antiques and mineralogy,
with a beautiful botanical garden. Among cities of the third order (and still almost second)
Tours is, without doubt, one of the most interesting in every way. Is this city ??a special
feature worthy of mention. Among its various printing has one of proportions gigantic, the largest
and most powerful in France, making immense scale publications and in all languages. From
there come every year from 7 to 8.000 works, and arises mainly prodigious mass of elementary books
for public education. Thousands of workers have permanent occupation in that vast establishment,
whose powerful steam presses do not stop providing food to civilization.

Amboise is only around 5.000 inhabitants and is remarkable only for its significant manufacturing
metal, whose products are generally estimated. This ancient city also delay on the margin
of the Loire. His strong castle served as temporary residence to the kings of France during
the XV and XVI.

The Loire Valley, as I said, is one of the most beautiful regions of France, but unfortunately have
suffered major disasters by the terrible floods of this river, whose waters overflow easily
owing to the shallowness of the channel and the complete natural grading the plains. The picturesque
may consist of natural forms and colors of objects and in artificial forms. It is to this second
kind of graceful beauty that belongs the exquisite scenery of the banks of the Loire, which would
be monotonous and tedious, because of their lack strong inflection, if it had the charm of the hand
of man has attempted. Plain is a vast open horizon, populated whole grain, vineyards, plantations
Hemp and beautiful carefully preserved forests. At the bottom of this magnificent panorama
vegetable slips the Loire, slow and quiet, with its endless shaded margins rows of poplars and other
large trees, and forming long beaches where the hot reverberates summer sun.

Here and there stands a mountain some distance, or a pretty flat hill inclined approaching
the river, where shine among gardens and parks on small towns fifth elegant, graceful houses gives
work (fermes), or the splendid castles history more or less aristocratic and heroic, raised
as watchmen on the heights of valley.