 Modern languages stammering
and imperfect even in the Middle Ages unfold with breathtaking blooms and produced masterpieces
in several literatures, it enlarges and becomes nearly full, in human mind, the concept of
the visible universe, are known to experience material things land and sky, reborn classical antiquity
and the renaissance, and being imitated, the itching of imitation begets new and original
poetry, divine, artistic creations, flamboyant philosophical systems and working methods of observation
and study to examine the nature and the human spirit and wring their innermost secrets. In comparison
of what made the century XVI, is less than the work of our century, but let us not forget not to
include it may be called new sciences as important as chemistry and comparative philology, and
so clever and useful findings as steam for motive power, photography, the electric telegraph, the telephone
and the phonograph. All this and it is extremely important, but and it matters very little when
compared to the Renaissance transformed the ancient world and to discover the New World. And
if not then thought he was going to emerge from the middle of the triumphant humanity an exquisite
and perfect being who llamásemos Superman, unless There is reason to believe now because Renan
enter the sentimental novel entitled Life of Jesus because there are railways and electric lighting,
and because they are invented sewing machines and bicycles.

If I leave my fervent dominated by philanthropy and my love to all
progress, I would convinced by the arguments that Mr. Gener claims,
and believe, like him, who is nearing appearance of Superman, but,
although I am progressive, I am not so much, and if I wanted believe
that Mr. Gener believe, come to my mind many doubts that prevent me,
sick in spite of myself.

I will take some of these questions as they occur to me. And I also to submit amendments or modifications
to the doctrine of humanity ascending as Mr. Gener professes, so that, after we let ourselves
be convinced and accept, be modified or amended, as to me it seems more reasonable and equitable.

First,
I am glad that the rise of mankind to be superhuman gender general or total, although in the future
superman would also, as in for mankind, and proper proproporción, inept and unfit, dull and clever,
and dumb and discreet, and so on.

On the day, England, France and Germany, and perhaps any other nation,
has not denied that are ahead of us in this crazy race, in which we
all, at the racetrack History, and approaching the finish line and
it would be unfortunate and foolish case to come before to that target
people of the North, they should come suddenly become supermen, taking
us to go now so behind, not to advance, but the animal back to or
to the inferior species that have gone out, ending up being, in relation
to the newly emerged Superman, what is now the monkey in relation
to us.

With that I will not take even of all the speeches of Mr. Gener and despite my unalloyed liberalism.

I
will say that I'm under or not under me is not the case. Good clarified is that the case is or is not.

Meditate
on their possibility.

Begin with a distinction. If progress means the accumulated capital of observations studies,
systems and discoveries that past generations have been bequeathed to us, that we maintain and
no doubt increase and improve, I believe in progress on foot face value. The darkest day bachelor
know more grammar than Homer, the most humble professor Institute Herodotus knows more history, and
natural things, their affinities, compositions, decomposition and changes, knows more than any mediocrity
Hippocrates village pharmacist. I do not deny this. What I deny is that this accumulation,
that this vast amount of doctrine, this effort and work of the spirit
of humanity, for three thousand years, has been infused in that same
spirit that art has been made being with him, giving worth and power
higher than he had before.

True, Homer, Herodotus and Hippocrates were less instructed that Victor Hugo, Taine, Renan and
Claude Bernard, but, in my opinion, worth much more than them.

Whence I infer that such substantial progress and staff, whereby
is to appear soon superman on the face of our planet, has not taken
any steps for at least about thirty centuries.

How do I set I doubt that Hegel knew more chemistry, astronomy, zoology, mechanics, history,
etc., that Aristotle himself? And But with Hegel as being original and powerful thinker, and
have a very fruitful and constructive fantasy and a sublime force to synthesize it all in
harmony, combining the real and the ideal and enclosing within its idea, which ever is developed, it
still seems Hegel small when I approach the image of him conceive the colossal image used to represent in
my mind the wonderful grand master Alexander.

I will not go to the opposite end of Mr. Gener, or affirm that men have degenerated. I merely present
here, without trying to resolve a contradiction that assails my soul. I want to believe, and
believe that people today are not worth, at bottom, essentially and nature, neither more nor less
than any other century, that education and the culture, so they have inherited from their elders,
for the treasure they have gathered for centuries and which arise as a pedestal, modern thinkers
and writers are worth more than the old, that in some sense, for the dissemination of knowledge,
There are more people on the day it is worth. And in the day, not Napoleon, but the most awkward
generals, defeat the son of Philip disrupting their phalanges with two or three guns Krupp, the
atheist Colonel Moses Ingersol prove their ignorance of chemistry, astronomy and geology, and that
all who had studied science in schools the priesthood of Egypt, not worth a Pitoche next to
the acquired by him in the Boston schools, and the last school teacher would Hesiod absorbed
and bewildered, and perhaps Pindar himself, if he began to explain that the names are masculine,
feminine and neutral, which may be or are in the nominative, accusative,
dative or otherwise, and a thousand other scientific truths the like
of which is quite evident that neither Hesiod and Pindar had noticed.

But Hence the contradiction. That same ignorance, the lack of education, let's say well, and that
very short knowledge of the old, born in our mind the awe and admiration we infuse their works.
More than the result of reflection and study, we feel inspired, revealed and divine. We see
in them the laborious effort or advance the science was acquired in the classroom, or suddenly
taken and given in a dictionary, or any another big book, but we see the spontaneous and fresh
freshness of wit himself, radiant light Inside, a pair beautifully illustrated by the god.

Mr. Gener traces a brief overview of philosophy of history, to test that approach at times
appear to be superman, but in many ways, I find false philosophy, and in any proof that this
appearance is close. By contrast, in several paragraphs of the last chapter of his book, which
explains his doctrine, he paints with such colors black society of the day, if we allanásemos to
believe, would ensure that mankind, instead of advancing morally degenerated or warped.

The main fault is pitiful degeneration, according to Mr. Gener, the erroneous belief that all
men are equal. For Mr. Gener nothing more absurd than equality. In my view, Mr. Gener is right,
if equality is understood in a way, but that somehow no one ever understood equality, now or ever,
where Mr. Gener creates himself a ghost or twit to look forward to topple the thrown of his
criticism.

Christianity, according to Mr. Gener, came to proclaim the equality of men in abjection and
misery, and the French Revolution and its ideas, taught and held the same equality Although levels
to all men, so tall, and being equally capable.

The accusation against Christianity seems so baseless as the charges against ideas revolutionary at
this point. Nobody in his view, by fervent Christian or tremendous revolutionary it is, has
ever known inequality of men, nor has it stopped notice the differences between them, because
some are low and high others weak some, and other strong, some clever, and many awkward, and
with regard to intelligence, natural agility and willingness to various trades, crafts and
chores, give and give scales always many degrees.

Equality that Christianity and the Revolution is agreed, is for low or better said, comes before
any religious doctrine or philosophical: it is radical and essential equality human nature,
the rights and duties of her birth and that it is based, with such evidence, it is enough common
sense to recognize that, although matter the enshrining of religion
and the laws, revolutionary or not, hold and for protection against
violence and injustice.

Equality so just do not understand that it can be destroyed by the doctrine of humanity upward,
that Mr. Gener holds with such enthusiasm.

In the way of understanding the Christian equality, Mr. Gener, blinded by passion antireligious,
incurs several errors. Neither heaven nor earth, nor in this life or the future, Christianity recognizes
that the fool and the wise, let alone the holy and the vicious are equal, unless radical and
essentially. And then, this equality is not based on vileness and contempt for the man himself,
but in the high concept that makes be it Christianity, teaching us that every soul of man is
the image of God, who should aspire to be perfect as God is God and so loved that he sacrificed
to redeem, and so dear, who wanted to join her and even the mortal
body which it is enclosed.

No doubt the fervently Christian soul when he goes to God your prayers and inner speech, becomes
very humble, is described as unworthy of sinners, evil of all evil and vile you can imagine,
but we understand very well that this says and admits the soul when compared with the highest
ideal of perfection, of rectitude, goodness and beauty, high end of all their aspirations and
white Unavailable their views and aspirations. When that same Christian soul, not by virtuous
deeds he has done, because this would miss the humility, but by the ability to feel itself and
the noble destination for which God created her and examines referred
to himself, instead of being under the concept in that it is so sublime
concept, which is not that of any creature leads of those affected
or likely to see, or imagine or pretend that or of that faith or revelation
known.

The soul of the most wretched human creature can be raised, if not for intelligence, love, to the
divine Being, it can go up to heaven and sit, as he sat Francisco Thus, in the throne on which
sat Lucifer before his fall. Repent, then, Mr. Gener his declamation against Christian equality
based on how miserable they are. If the is a confession of real meanness and contempt of himself,
God come and see, as is commonly say. Equality, therefore, there is in Christianity in power:
the power infinite we all have to be called children of God and heirs of his kingdom immortal
and glory. And what is in act, as it would be absurd equality, inequality is what there, as some
are reprobate and other saints; a just and sinners, and some acolytes and sexton and other
mitred abbots, archbishops and even Popes.

On democratic equality, which also condemns Mr. Gener, declaiming against it supposing hindrance
of progress, is to make plain fed similar defense.

Democratic equality, rational and discreetly understood, is not being performed, but in order to become
that power and do not choke or limit thanks to privileges odious. In this sense, democratic equality
is fair and reasonable in theory, and do not serve to invalidate the abuses and evils that
may arise from it. What can not be born evil and abuse?

The clearest manifestation of democratic equality is universal suffrage. Not refute I thousand
arguments against him do: accept as well founded, but above all these arguments, there is
a compelling reason that invalidated and destroyed. No doubt that an association men for a given
company, whose success concur about the capital, other with intelligence, others with their skill,
expertise and skill in any particular skill or trade, and others only with the hard work of their
hands, universal suffrage would be equally absurd, as well as what would be the equal sharing
of gains and profits. But the political society city ??or state association is a very different
nature and purpose. Its main purpose is men protect the free exercise of their rights, to
suppress any violence that and not to undermine the slightest obstacle to the charitable work of
each individual. In this there is no lower inequality between the
partners.

I almost say, or not almost say that the laborer who wins two or three pesetas a day has the same right,
and perhaps greater interest, that the capitalist who has three thousand
hard daily income, which the government is good, wise and judicious.

Because if the Government gets it wrong and ruin occurs, it is likely the Capitalist save much
of his fortune and continue enjoying it, or your own country semiarruinada, or in a foreign
country, where perhaps there are funds or property, while the laborer starve if it sinks the
industry that provided jobs and wages, and while most traditional be him, and the more proper
to their homeland is the trade which it carries greater their misery
and despair, for there is flat and easy to migrate to foreign land,
especially with family, looking for work and sustenance.

In view therefore of the foregoing consideration, Clearly I have for the poor porter, the dark
and helpless peasant, is about at least as interested as the Fúcar or Croesus, in prosperity
and good governance the republic. For the rich is this business more or less comfortable and more or
less fine joys, and the poor can be life or death business, can not win two or three ESP used
to earn, and having to resort to begging or little effective charitable public land whose wealth
promoted his work, and whose integrity and whose honor may shed his blood.

Understood that, for the love of truth and fairness, and not for adulation or flattery of the
masses commoner, I dare say what I say, against the splendid and curious aristocracy whose doctrines
says Mr. Gener, and believes that it is based or founded on the proud culture of that small
part of our lineage, which, it seems, is humanity ascending is now close to form the nucleus
or group of supermen.

The flamboyant aristocracy, or say to yourself the superman, does not want Mr. Gener arising
from revolution but by evolution, following the path of progress, not because we have now; but
if you follow the right path and we have strayed, not understood what luck we reaching the superhuman
for more developments are made. Ill have to enthrone trace supermen, if we are to judge accurately
the paint that makes society Mr. Gener present: "The more cunning, he says, climbing power
directly, or the protection of laws, relying for money, have been imposed, and companies groan
in slavery today thousand times worse than the old. A commercial piracy, industrial feudalism
have been afflict the human race with a government of nullity, toy bancocracia that protects
only the inept adherents and hinder the development of all real sources of life. The prose
has thundered into sovereign (sic) values ??have fallen into the hands of the wicked. Today, in general,
wealth is synonymous with moral void of selfishness and perfect mediocrity; at most elegant
cunning means, in short, a quality criminal offense. "

If so ugly features are accurate, if so, the present society, or not
going on the road progress, or have fallen, with the car we drive,
in a gully or rut of all devils.

I do not see, then, are about the advent and success of Superman, since, according to Mr. Gener,
are a bunch of idiots, criminals and miscreants who triumph, perch and govern all, while the
supermen out there scattered, with very little money, no power and no influence, and perhaps
making observations and experiences and writing big books that almost nobody reads. And how
anyone reading them when society cries Today, according to Mr. Gener,
the worst of slavery under the yoke of these guys infamous ordinary
and vulgar these rich men and rogues, which tells us, send us and
oppress us?

If by virtue of evolution have to leave this horrible state, the Aurora superhuman, instead
of being close, is lejísima; take millions of years to dawn. Now I understand I read some time
has sociology book that made me a deep impression and I have not never forgotten: "Humanity, said
the aforementioned book, taken as a collective life, not yet born. "Seeking after when born, and
after extensive research and calculations subtle, forecast to be born within fourteen thousand
five hundred years on, more or less. And if the collective humanity goes so reluctant to be born,
I fear that the victorious superman do double time in gestation, and only comes forth, not within
one hundred forty centuries, but within three hundred, then if our planet has not had a bad
encounter or stumble in the amplitude of the ether through which turns around and goes waltzing,
or you do not need water because which is combined with solids, or if not cool and inner fire goes
out, or if, by dint of rolling, no holes and eventually take the form of donut or ring, like Saturn.

Now
we dispose of the above objections, detracting from the arguments that it Mr. Gener supplied against
rapid progress against the conviction that we are close the target.

And in this case, cavilo me and I am inclined to believe that the happy outcome of progressive
movement, rather than the appearance of Superman, will the search and placement of the human
race, equality abhorred by Mr. Gener, if not impossible, the difficulty more every day that no one
stand out and excel.

As there will be no cruel and intolerant tyrants, no one can win the crown of martyrdom. Each one
can preach and disseminate the doctrine which he pleases, at ease and safely. The deletion of
the long and painful punishments prevent someone is distinguished by its sturdy energy to endure
them: the regulators and the Princes Constants may not reappear. Extinct poverty, charity, the generous
donation and the most beautiful works of mercy will not to be exercised and forget or be stunted
in the soul. If peace is made perpetual and wars are over, farewell military virtues, great
captains and valiant heroes. Discovered and figured out what remains to be discovered and to
find out, all will be wise and no Pilgrim invention enhance a mortal with an inch of height
above other mortals. Exhausted and hands and all matters epic, lyric and dramatic, tested all feelings,
and used to express the most natural, simple and proper workmanship style, prose writers and poets
will have to repeat what was said, and be kidnappers or imitators, exposing with a desire to be
original, the biggest fall in extravagance and absurdities: to be decadent, deliquescent, Impressionists,
Symbolists and naturalists. With own sculptors will occur when seeking to overcome by new trails
Phidias and Praxiteles. And the artists, if it aspires to be among his contemporary princes and
kings of his art, as it were in another age Rafael, Velazquez and Rembrandt, would fall into
mannerisms more disparate. In short: born equal progress and dissemination of culture harass
us all, and he who does not obey it, but to rise and shine on his
fellow will go crazy and will do about the sad hallmark of his madness.

For

this or for worse, this term progress is still very remote and may not arrive ever. We know
that full equality is impossible.