 My aunt was working in her flowers, and I close it, hearing it entertained
me.

- Did you like me to marry Angelina?

- Why not? - Said elated
.-- If it's so good!

If you want both!

I do not know why I turned on the face. Angelina never thought I could love me. Well seen the
case, why not? Angelina was very lovable. I did find out if someone had set eyes on her.

- And tell me, aunt: "Angelina has not had a boyfriend?

- By God,
Rorra!

From the other day you're with it !.... No, sir. Angelina is a little girl judiciously. Angelina
will have no boyfriend who becomes her husband. She is not able play with love.

- I think so, but .... Tell me: has not had candidates?

- Ah! That's another thing.

So! - And my aunt joined the fingers of his right hand and moved as To indicate a crowd of people.

- In Pluviosilla - continued - many!

A rich Spanish, a youth of very biting and endiantrado pharmacy,
able to laugh at shadows, a handsome college, which he wrote poems,
others, and others.

Here ... here ....

- Who?

- One no more.

- Who?

- Your friend,
classmate of yours ....

- Pepe Lopez?

- No.

- Say you, Aunt ....

-
Guess.

- Edward, the son of the mayor?

- No. Eddie is a piece of
cork.

He, the mayor's son, fancy to a girl poor?

When!

The love for Fernández Gabrielita ....

- The young blonde, who plays
the piano very well?

- Already know?

- The other day I saw her at
the gate.

- Beautiful!

Is not it true?

- Reguapa!

Linda like a sun!

- Eduardo will perish by it.

- So who is the suitor of Angelina?

- Guess!

- Ocaña Jacinto?

- God forbid!

- Agustín Venegas?

- Jesus me excuses!

Do not you say it is a friend of yours ?....

- Ricardo Tejeda?

-
The same dresses and shoes!

- It is feared rival! - I said to myself.

XIV

Sometimes I was chatting in the pharmacy of Don Procopio Meconium.

In that famous hangout, center recreational idle and unemployed,
was met at all times the young and handsome and older more talkative
of the Buddhist city.

At the pharmacy concurred: Venegas, spirit strong liberal of the
new pitch, infant republican, very bitter against the ill-fated test
imperial Jacinto Ocaña, monarchist to bone marrow, that whenever spoke
of Maximilian, was discovered respectfully, and every moment latching
disputes with Venegas, bringing to dance the Saratoga and the Treaty
Mac-Lane, and Dr. Don Crisanto Sarmiento backward on all four sides,
who lived pining for the colonial regime, which was made languages
??of Revillagigedo, who readily restored in Mexico saw the Holy Tribunal
of the Faith, and that when one spoke of Independence, he said, casting
of Acute

- The damn "India independence" has made us a pity!

I do not know how many more, among whom the owner of the pharmacy, the invariable Don Procopio,
wild player, who had made that temple of Galen in a sanctuary of Birj. We used to see there at P.
Solis. Came from time to time, when they had less social gatherings; be read from cover to
cover periodicals, and then ... Chatting with Sarmiento and Venegas! While Don Procopio played
in with his brothers, out in front of the counter, in the presence of buyers, often tangled talks
became disputed. Venegas was pleased to attack the fallen empire, Sarmiento argued hot and full
of verve. The Republican Catholicism was beating, the doctor said the Liberal Party pests.
The teacher, very fond of the "Political Catechism"

Pizarro Suarez claimed do not know what reasons for religious tolerance,
and those opposed to its opposite number Protestant arguments as those
used by newspapers in the late 56 and early of 57.

The doctor sat in Jupiter brings out their arguments in the form, science seminarian, and finally,
the outpourings of Sarmiento replied with insults.

Fr Solis, thoughtful and phlegmatic, was stayed, listened and kept quiet until to calm encouragement,
to arbitrate in the dispute. First, this was their tactic - it went straight to the doctor;
was granted the right, but bitterly reproaching his exaggerations of monarchist.

- Iturbide, (to whom the Declaration of Independence calls "a genius above all praise") made
nonsense. In our time nobody improvises king or emperor. Paper only as high block who was cradled
in royal birth, who was born on the steps of a throne. A people is not gives to himself, only
"because they want" good governance and good institutions. It should that the search according
to their traditions, it is necessary to take into account lessons of its history, it is necessary
that the institutions and the government will come form appropriate
cassock like me, you coat, bag and this young man short.

There you have explained ephemeral empire of Maximilian.

Then, turning to the religious question, serene and restful said:

- Amigo, Don Crisanto: I understand that the Church does not sponsor or monarchies or republics.
For her, any form of government is good ... When is good! It matters little that the head
of a state is called president or king or emperor. No, friend, do not have to pretend that you want.
Nothing to identify the political issue with the religious question.

Then shut against Venegas. Was to hear him when, in a concise, brief, incisive, pilloried the nonsense
of a teacher who knew nothing right and everything is back words
and booming sound.

He mocked him and laughed at the best of its conclusions Lutheran
and then countered, quite correctly, the errors of youth.

- Young!

Young! - Burst into preachy tone .-- This Constitution that you put by the clouds, has been made
in accordance with the needs of the country. As I point ignored it is against religion. Struggle
against our customs. Our bishop is not educated to those freedoms. Tell me, if I answer a demand
would have to consult with Castro Pérez, or any shyster, what if
one day I will get a deputy and I have to legislate?

And anyone can become a member: you, the doctor, the Indian who is on there, very busy with their
sovereignty, I .... No, not me, because I am a priest, a minister worship, and therefore am not
a citizen more than half. Well of course! or you would not know what would do, and vote for the
good of God, or whatever it is safer to the good of the Devil.

Now, as to such dirty tricks that you have vomited against the Holy Mother Church, we to the
point, sir, and my friend, you know not what they say. It is! All the science you is in the
Catechism of Nicholas Pizarro. Come on, girl: you drink cleaner sources, and do not talk for now
of things that do not understand. And this peace, and then glory! And farewell, friends! I'm
going, I have not prayed the office, and is the short hour of chocolate. Do you like?

The exclaustrated was going; Sarmiento comprised the hat and took the base, and Venegas pests
saying monks marched and retrograde.

We stayed commenting on the conversation of the guests, until the six me I was going to install
a seat in the Plaza, to hear Miss Fernandez touch.

Good to know that the Fernandez family was frowned upon in the city. Their culture shocked to
Villaverde good Buddhist.

When he bought the farm in Santa Clara, Mr. Fernandez came to live in my hometown, and sought
to relate to his family the best of Villaverde.

But they did not sex with anyone, better said: not correspond villaverdinos
to the wishes of Mrs. and Miss Fernandez.

They only became close with Sarmiento and P. Solis, because although the main families visited
the city, not my good countrywomen samples were estimated by the newcomers.

The people of Villaverde, particularly women, were not welcome the customs Fernandez family. She
murmured, whispered about Miss nonsense and teasing and, of course, the nice and elegant chick
liked any of this.

- Gabriela Fernandez? More proud! More frivolous! How smug! What tuned! What you will believe? If
you believe that we have not seen Villaverde luxury and elegance .... Yes, yes, we know who says
that this population is a large farm .... Believe that comes to dazzle
with externalities and their costumes.

And all for what? Because they can play the piano. There is Castro Perez Luisita as well as
she plays, and yet it is modest and humble. Well deceives; not have to visit or for one of these
nine things. To enjoy your class your money! That Gabrielita her clothes look expensive! For all we
need it. What fun! - Repeated The envious .-- What fun! All the guys from here go to shrift!
Best! Best! Marquesitas Who sends love! Well seen, who are lovers? Eddie ... Eddie only! The
fool, as you have money, like his father is rich, sure will listen.

My countrymen were quick to warn that late afternoon I spent hours listening to me play to Gabrielita.
One night, he entered the pharmacy, I heard talk of Miss Fernandez and saying something about me. I soon
learned that in all the corridors, in all the gossip in every house, they said and repeated
that I was in love, I drank the wind by the daughter the wealthy
owner of Santa Clara.

XV

One afternoon I received a note from Don Roman, a note very punticomada,
gracefully written, with the excellent letter that Palomares years
ago that my teacher gave skilful reputation hangers.

"My dear disciple and friend

"Like you I offered yesterday, last night I was to visit Mr. Mr. Castro
Perez to speak about you, and how useful it could be in the office.

As I told him I thought it appropriate: I told him of your good qualities, your good character,
your hardworking nature, your statement strong and targeted, and the difficulty that I was to
continue the studies and career started so brightly, and the need that you looked to find something
productive. Oyome of goodwill (which I thought was a good omen) and I promised to take in the
matter at the earliest. I judge it necessary to make a visit as soon as possible and I recommend
you try my friend (who was also very close, the Lord your grandfather) your great and characteristic
kindness, courtesy makes you unique. Castro Pérez is paid much of externalities, and to have
you flatter environment is necessary. It's manic, and slightest thing goes against him. And
leave you prepared the field. Up to you to rest.

"Come over here. The liver is me since yesterday, annoying and 'achicopalado.
"

Come, talk, and you show you something you'll like it much, some hexameters I forged last night
against those "wise men" of "The Shadow" and "The Voice."

"You know how much you want this your teacher and friend

Román López.

     

He gave me a bad feeling the esquelita my master teacher. Of course I thought I was going to
try a man of bad character. This got me upset. I figured it was a Castro Pérez of those lawyers
old peritísimos Court issues, but otherwise few out-and-out ignorant, a village matron, paid
his fame and his science, those who long for everything old, and are always unwilling to everything
new, a phantoms angry, grumpy, those who view with suspicion by young people, and are pleased
at all hours censored encyclopedic education these days, which, while not bulk produce non-breeding
wise fools, like so many old people I knew, fenced in his learning scenario, very arrogant
and cocky with his science, science meager and mean that conquer them in the popular vile fans
and acolytes of that pass as they say amen Socrates of the village, so they loose the biggest
blunder. In a word, I figured Castro Pérez was one of those old lawyer, replete with Latin
phrases, which are known memory the items that are allowed to push in canon, and who write
miss with 'h', 'cape theologians' as they were called "in illo tempore"; experts in the legal shenanigans,
but vacuous by everything else habilis to hide their ignorance and dismissive of what they
do not understand; watching everyone with an air of protection, and to appear serious and brainy,
showing inaccessible and go for a few wonders sullen and come to be, in towns and cities like Villaverde,
lords of life and property.

Nothing you will draw from them if you appear humble, submissive, hardcore fans their people.
Woe to you if you approach such lofty gentleman, pretending that expect all of them! Woe outcasts
who do not give up! Surely, nothing will, of fixed all will answer in monosyllables, and leave
there angry and desperate.

I hated to follow the advice of my teacher. I understood very well what it meant to me by saying,
"I recommend you treat my friend with your great and feature goodness"; but it shocked me
introduce myself as a shy and meticulous donated pretending estimate that did not happen to
me the limits of a vulgar and common respect, as we give all for reasons of politeness and courtesy.
What to do? I started to follow the advice of "Pomposísimo Cicero ', and late afternoon, just
before it rang the Angelus, I went to Pérez Castro's house.

He lived behind the parish, in a dilapidated and gloomy mansion.

When I reached the hallway I was tempted to go back and go talk to
Don Procopio.

I bite the bullet and walked to the door of the office.

- Inside!
- Said a high-pitched voice.

- "Mr. Castro Perez?

- Inside! - Repeated
falsetto.

It was the scribe. Bad impression made me very sensitive little person. It was a pale boy, haggard,
bloodless and consumed by work, a wretch condemned, no doubt, to life imprisonment in that
world of files and tomes, always bent over that table covered with
a green baize table in front of that lead inkwell filled with ink
born thick.

- "Mr. Castro Perez?

- In the other room! - He said
the clerks.

- I can go?

- Go you.

I slipped the rundown.

My man, almost lying on an armchair near the window, looking through
a file.

Joined to feel upset, left the seat, and went to close the door, perhaps so that the clerk could
not hear us.

- What sent you? - I said, frowning.

- My teacher, Mr. Don Roman Lopez, has recommended me ....

Pérez
Castro's face changed expression.

- Come on, girl, - muttered getting
up and offering me a seat, - here you have a chair.

My man returned to his armchair, and then over his glasses, looked at me from head to toe.

- What is available? Ah! Now I remember! Are you the young clerk that you want to enter in this
house?

- Yes, sir.

- Well .... We will see, see if you are useful. Here we have a lot of work. You know: My customers
are numerous, and therefore do not need task.

If you want to work ....

- It's what I want ...-- muttered, looking down, while the lawyer
looked me straight in the eye.

- Well, I want it, trabajadorcito.

Ten clerks have changed this year, and that Indeed, none has left
me happy.

Best not worth three snails!

- Do not pretend to be worth much, but ... procure, under such right
direction, learn in a short time as necessary.

Pérez Castro smiled, and two hands clasping the thumb and the index is composed glasses, and then
patting the abdomen, and fell back and stopped me.

- None of flattery, young man! Nothing worthy of what they say about me ....

He spoke slowly and calmly, hearing.

- You are by far modest ...--¡
Here! - I said .-- Here the incense! - Who is not aware the talents
of you, your profound knowledge of his reputation, his honesty purge?

They praise me blushed.

- Well! Well! We'll see if you get what you want.

Are you effectively recommended Roman. He tells me you was his pupil, and the more advanced
....

- The Lord my teacher loves me, and me too lenient.

I want to work, and I sure to advance to next person so recommended.

Who does not know that you are the first Counsel for the State of Veracruz!

Pérez Castro swelled up like a turkey, rocked in the chair, pretended
to blush, and said:

- To the Point!

To the Point! Do you know the industry?

- No, sir.

- Well then, how are you applying for a job that is unknown?

I have good news you.

Roman and I said you're a smart boy, who can you make nice verses
.... But it is well known: they are the best employees who go around
all day consonants to hunt ....

I wanted to strangle the old man.

-
Sir, - I said - it is true that I make verses, but do not live so
pleasantly delivered to occupation.

Also, I have understood you ... usually make ... And very beautiful!

-
Thanks, girl!

Remains of my hobbies youth! In truth that poetry tends to captivate, but only from time to
time. Well, well, well!

This was his crutch.

- I hope you in memory of my grandfather .... Romao and would speak
of the circumstances where I am.

I can not return to Mexico, I can not continue their studies, and
I am obliged get me a piece of bread ....

- Well!

Well! Well! So does a young delicate.

We will see, see if you serve me.

But I must warn you ... up within a week I can not solve.

Tomorrow I'll see if I can reconcile several things. Come back here,
Friday or Saturday .... Y.. you say.

Do you have good lyrics?

- Regular, sir.

- Come on. There you have what is necessary.

Obscured. On the table was a candlestick with a candle.

- Do not you see? Then light the candle and write down what you like.

Obeyed. I took the pen and wrote: "If Mr. Castro Perez Bachelor receive me worthy home, will
try to serve him with all faithfulness. "

I went to the lawyer, taking the blade and spark plug. My man sat in his armchair, was composed
with both hands, glasses, and read what was written.

- Well!

Well! Well! According! I prefer the old and gallant Spanish lyrics .... But end, you is clear
and beautiful. The English lyrics so mannered and smug!

And after a pause:

- You know: Friday or Saturday ....

- I'll come over here ....

-
No, I'll call you.

I understand that there will Pérez Castro fell
ill. That told me two days later the worthy Don Roman.

- The thing
is for sure, boy. You nailed a pike in Flanders!

XVI

We were in
late October, mediated the fall, and the fields were green again by
rain show off their foliage. The morning was crystal clear, fresh,
prodigal of light, and sunsets short, splendid, incomparable. 

I
was happy to wander around Villaverde. A hundred times I traveled
the banks of the Stony, and many others saw, from the top of Brush
Hill, sunset. My Site favorite, where I went every evening, was almost
flat rock, which appeared collapsed the last peak, and sideways on
a rock, gave me a comfortable seat that surrounded buvardias coral,
soft Cebadillas fragrance, wonderful and flowing grasses ferns which
floated on the wind, scattered the brown feathers of ripe ears.

What
a beautiful picture! At my feet the first streets of the city, as
extended in yellow plush carpeting, the mall Santa Catalina, buildings
crowding in proportion as they approached the Plaza, the town divided
by the river, and along it Franciscan Monastery, grim and sombre,
desolate and sad, like crying absence of beggars.

North side, the
hills of San Antonio, the pastures of the brush, the shacks of Barrio
Alto, hidden in the thicket of jinicuil and orange groves.

To the
east, the most picturesque in the valley. Right and left the mountains
of Mata-Thick, covered with the lush vegetation of the lowlands, the
hill of the Otates that seen from the point where I was, like a camel
lying on the sand awaiting the breath scorching deserts