 It would give me
two tight hugs ... A Canary with them, as it were, to overseas! And if you lose the boat that
takes the better ... I can not help, I feel like going out to the terrace and give a live the
Queen! very strong, very strong. "

Very nearly do so as I said. A while later, Milagros flattered to talk dynastic passion picturesque
Bringas, and asked for the generals, not a death but hundred deaths, and to all who conspire
the scaffold. With these things are very encouraged the patient, but alas, the next day was to
be the darkest in his life. Poor sir, after having spent the night very restless morning observed
a loss almost absolute power to see. The doctor was so stunned that not even hit the formulas elusive
that they use when they want to confess up. But man of conscience, finally learned to abdicate its
authority before producing greater evils, saying: "We must you will see an eye doctor. You
see you Golfín. "

D. Francisco believed that the sky was falling over. No doubt his illness was serious. Overcome
by greed fear, not thought to repair the opinion of your doctor and the whole family. Shocked
everyone in the prodigious distrusted most famous science curator
of eyes that had Spain.

Remembered not to delay the consultation or a day or an hour.

Ah, Golfín! ... Bringas knew him. He was a man of which there were wonders. Many blind had evicted
view. In South America and North had won big bucks, and Spain is not neglected even in this.
Go ant! To beat a waterfall to the Marquis Castro had taken eighteen thousand real, and for
care of a child's conjunctivitis cucurbit, had an account such that the Cucurbits, to pay, insisted
for six years. "But in the end, God help us, and go out with either of this. Heal me on this Golfín,
and let me in the pure leather ...».

Discurriose then whether the patient would go to consultation or
would come home to an eye doctor, deciding Bringas at first, it was
the cheapest.

"Paquito and I get into a car, and there ...».

- No, you're not to go out. He will come.

- It does not come, woman. These potentates of science does not move from their home rather
than rulers or people visiting a lot of money.

- I tell you to come. I'm going down.

His Majesty will put four letters ...

- That sounds very wise. And if the Lady wants to add that this is a poor ... better better. God
bless you, honey.

And he came and saw Ridley, and his rough kindness infundiole encouragement and hope began to
lose. The ailment was not serious, but the healing would be slow. "Patience, lots of patience,
and exact compliance, escrupulosísimo what I prescribe. There is a bit of conjunctivitis,
it is necessary to combat readiness and energy. "

Poor, miserable Bringas! For the moment, bedding, diet, quiet, atropine.

Inaugurose with this sad life for the unfortunate Thiers.

Earned no longer take off band, then just drop saw, and gave him much pain, he turned to darkness,
in which His only consolation was to remember the words of Ridley and that heavenly promise
that farewell: "You see, you will see it has ever seen," meaning weight and fullness precious faculty
believe above all others of our body. See! ... But When God Almighty, when, Santa Lucia blessed?
Patience was not lacking in the poor man in that situation eagerly bent their minds to religious
contemplation and spent part of the lonely hours praying. His wife never left him, but when
any unwelcome visit forced him to, when afflicted with air entering Miracles, and calling apart,
regaled me with a couple of tears and caresses flattering ... Was no longer a Bathrooms think, unless
Bringas not be restored for the first days of August, which did not
seem likely.

Fish was the most constant friends of the honoree that tribulation family. One afternoon he
could speak alone with Rosalie in Gasparini, she said: "We are now entering an era difficulties,
which I do not know how we get out. " To which D. Manuel said with a burst Quixotic, offering
to help in all those difficulties of any kind were. This noble thought entered the mind of the lady
as a ray of heavenly light. He could have some support in the storms that will bring further life.
Had already behind it a place of retreat, a reserve for any critical event ... And looked around
If an arm, a shield ... Life offered flatter, more open ... "I'll look - I thought - that this friendship
and I honestly do not conflict. "

XXXI

Seeing her husband was so down and bloodied in Rosalia budded affection of other times; and
the esteem in which he always had depurábase of capricious malevolence to resurface large
and cordial, touching on reverence.

Entertained in the vain thought the good lady your life partner for many years, which, if satisfaction
had not provided self-love very much alive, had given no trouble. He remembered then that there
prosaic marriage and quiet, full of simple pleasures shortages and, if isolation seemed of little
value, valued in total memory offered a nice set. Al Bringas side had not enjoyed it or amenities,
or representation, nor pleasures, nor greatness, and estate, none of which was his by right
of its beauty and its being genuinely aristocratic, but instead, how calm and how sweet the days
passed without choking or traps, or creditors! Do not owe anything to anyone was the great principle
of the man walking, and he was so corny as honest and as happy as wretches. Surely if she had Fish
hit a man would be in position brighter ... "But God knows - thought very wisely - the agonies
that go in those houses where they always spent more than have. That must look closely and
pass it and feel it to know it well.

"

This is Rosalie, with the aggravation of her husband's bad morally and mentally approaching to
him, tightening the bonds of matrimony. The attraction of misery wrought this miracle, and
the habit of sharing all the quota of life, and in bad as in happy. And with what zeal he cared!
What his hands to heal so subtle! With what grace and Art poured the balm of tender words on
the spirit of the sick! He was so grateful, that never ceased to praise God for the good they
gave him, inspiring fellow that wonderful sense of conjugal duty. Sweetened intimate joys and penetrated
his sentence of religious zeal, believed that the care of his wife were faithful expression
of care divine. Only when she was killed, because of his duties, left her side; and each time
he called for the smallest thing, begging him to shorten as much
as possible their occupations to devote to it.

Throughout this time, Rosalie gave hand to sumptuary galas. I had no time nor tranquility of mind
to think in rags. These lay buried in the dresser drawers, waiting
better opportunity to show themselves.

Or she happened to be composed ... Good were the time to think about frills! Was it true luxury
boredom or devotion? Something single and otherwise. If it was self-denial, this came to present
themselves before the end of Mr. de Pez home to packing more prosaic
than one might imagine.

The only assumption that was retained to always have your best brace that he was not disrupting
the body. But her hair was primitive, and his robe induction could be studied all issues the government
of a poor house. One evening he had told D. Manuel: "I do not see you. I made a bogey. " And he had
replied: "That, and anyway, you are always beautiful ", she was grateful gallantry.

The weakness of the body flojedades necessarily bring the whole to the more regrettable. Prolonged
illness in humans mimics the effects of aging are comparable to children
and good Bringas was not spared the physical and moral infirmity.

The decline ignited in the heat tenderness, and tenderness resulted in some excitement cuddly.

"Daughter,
do not tell me you're a woman. I tell you you're an angel ... Look, so far no the house has more
will than mine. You've been a slave. From now on no will make your will. The slave will be me.
"

The first day of what we call the reign of Ridley, D. Francisco was brought to bed the money
box, to get himself, as usual, the daily expenditure. But well soon that tenderness mimosa,
or rather childish passivity that before I spoke, he inspired confidence I never had. "No need,
my dear, you bring the Cajoncillo. Take the key and out what you think is prudent. " The lady
did so. In what is not neglected after Bringas was to ask for the keys and keep them under
his pillow, because all the enthusiasm and even senile or infantile weakness has its limits.

Rosalie
could thus freely explore the hidden treasure. Stirred, told and retold all that was in the
double bottom, astonishment of flow stored there.

Her husband was very more than she suspected, was a capitalist. There were five tickets of four
thousand reais composing thousand dollars, and after a peak in small bills totaling three thousand
seven hundred. The five big bills were the most elegant booklet that the lady had seen his life.
In considering that, were revived and complaints rencorcillos different times had disturbed
his spirit ... Who that had deprived her to wear a new dress!

The owner of that sum was determined to wear his wife as a housekeeper for a cure! ... Oh,
what geek man! ... If, as he said, would henceforth be her true lady home precisábale vary in
temperament, be more demanding, and make economies the family a more suitable job for the dignity of the
same ... Save money that way, without obtaining any product it was not it silly? If at least give
it to interest or employed in any of the companies that distribute dividends ...!

The discovery of the treasure brought Rosalie's ideas of the circle
of modesty and self-denial that the disease had locked her husband.

This he said in a burst of enthusiasm: "When I get good, I'll buy a dress gro, and in winter,
if I'm right, you'll one of velvet. It should make yourself shine once, not with the gifts
of the Queen and her friends, but the product of my finances and my honest labor. "

And she began to think that if the treasure does not belong to him entirely, most of he should be
in your hands.

"I have enough private enough to have suffered shortages Now, holding, pass the drowning happened.
If you do not want to give it to me, and I will understand the consideration
you owe me.

" In this state of mind took her one morning Miracles, with such good fortune, it seemed that Providence
had made preparation for the blissful satisfaction Marquise. It happened that had not yet announced
this conclusion with sighs and groans imminent of disaster when decided
tone Rosalia said

"Do you me sign a promissory note promising to
return within a month the amount I give now?

Because the more friends, more formality.

"You give me an interest of two percent per month? Did you pay the six hundred added to those real?
... It is one thing friendship, my friend, and business ... I think you will not be offended
...».

I must not add to the Telleria said yes to everything sincere and ardent expressions. Do not believe
it would be like questioning the daylight.

"For these conditions will give you four thousand realitas" - said Rosalie with pretensions lender. "

Those
who have had the good fortune to see, really pray, pray in ecstatic figuration, the open sky and
his cohorts flying angels singing the praises of the Lord, do not get insurance a face more radiant
than put Milagros happy to hear that announcement. But ...

XXXII

There is no happiness that is not his but, and the happiness of the Marquise was that to complete
the sum was needed about five thousand ... Because yes, was awaiting a little story ... This was
irrelevant. With regard to interest both gave him two, four, six. "This is material, daughter,
and the more profit for you, the greater my satisfaction. " Rosalie hesitated a while, but
finally everything was settled to the satisfaction of both, and that same afternoon expanded and signed
the contract in the quartermaster, with all the necessary precautions to Isabelita who was sniffing
around, not aware of anything.

Milagros D. goodbye Francisco with the most cordial and sweet phrases he had spoken in your life.
"Oh, what a woman is you! God has sent one of his favorite archangels. Do not complain you from
their evil, my friend, because that is worthless, and soon healed.
Thank God, for those who have next to people like Rosalie, and can
receive calamities and to cope with value ...». Don Francisco conmovidísimo
held out his hand, hearing the frantic kisses smacking the Marquise
gave the beloved angel.

A different had obeyed the impulse to do
what he did. First, the desire to please friend encouraged her greatly.
Secondly, the idea often expressed by Bringas, that she could have
all had taken possession of his intellect and breeding in his other
ideas of dominance and authority. It was necessary to show with facts,
though they go through something the limits of prudence, which had
ceased to be a slave and he assumed his share of sovereignty in the
distribution of marital wealth. This is not only calmed his conscience
but considering that he did have money to put to revenue. The little-thing
would have no reason to complain if the five thousand returned to
the box with the increase concerned. Finally, the above might not
have sufficed to identify it the reckless action of the loan, if you
do not count on the safe withdrawal in the extreme case Bringas discovered
that it disapproved and, if not count on the evening offerings earlier
he had made friends with the house