 Had time to leap to the home of Weasel, and re- point to return to
his home of Dona Bernarda. Said and done. A moment later came diligent in the hypocritical old
tabernuca that faces the public in the establishment above, and the first thing he saw there was
the picture of Luquitas abominable, the husband of Obdulia, with other lost and two or three ragged
women, playing cards in a dirty circular coffee table, between glasses of Carignan and Camus.
At the time of going to Benin, had just a game, and before you put your other hand, the son of
Doña Paca shot foul on the table cards, dirt racing in the hands of the players stood up unsteadily,
and language and fine half-confused, which usually employ drunk, offered the maid of his mother
a glass of wine. "Stand back, sir, I've drunk ... We thank ...»-- said the old woman, rejecting
the cup.

But so heavy was the gentleman, and such others chanted insistently calling Mrs. drank, that he
was afraid, and took half the contents of sticky glass. No I wanted to be wrong with this mob,
so he could thunder, and without wasting time bickering getting into the vicious Luquitas,
by the neglect in which his wife had, went straight to its object: "What is not around the Pitusa?

-
Here's to serve - said an emaciated woman, coming out of narrow little
door, well hidden among the shelves filled with bottles and bottles
that were behind the counter.

As a crack that leads to the cache of an eel, so was the door, and the exemplary women thinner,
stunted and elusive that could be found in wildlife such females belong. His face was so thin
that when you see him in profile could tenérsele built sheet, as the figures of the vanes. In his
neck did not fit more seams, and a your ears earring hole was so big that he could get with
all a finger play. Jagged teeth and black, bald eyebrows, eyelashes, bleary, the tender eyes,
lynx-eyed, completing his physiognomy. The body does not have to say but which are difficult
to find exactly comparable ways to those of a broomstick dress, or, if desired, covered with
rags scrubbing floors, arms and hands, that gesture seemed whipped, as a fox runs like dusting
the face of the interlocutor of his speech and accent, which sounded as if gargling, and strangely
enough, I will say also to give complete idea of ??the person, that all these externalities unpleasant
it appeared a breeze of kindness, a moral attractive, so ensuring that the Pitusa term was not
far from unfriendly.

- "What brings you here Benina Sena? - Said shaking hard on both shoulders -. I heard tell
you were in big, rich house ... Ya, and will bring good rebañaduras ... And you have no bad
cat! ...

- Daughter, no ... That a century ago. We are now in decline.

- What? Would you go wrong?

- Pulling, pulling.

If soups, eat, and if not, nothing ... And the Weasel, is it?

-
What you want, Sena Benina?

- Daughter, you know him wonder, if healthy.

-
We argue.

The wound is opened when you least think.

- Oh dear ... Tell me something else ...

- Send me.

- Let me know
if you picked up at your house to a gentleman who called Frasquito
Ponte, and if we have here yet, because I said that last night was
very bad.

"

In reply, the Pitusa Benina sent him to follow, and both, stooping,
slipped through the hole that served as a gateway between the estantillos
the counter.

The other partly tore a very narrow staircase, which rose by one after another.

"It's a decent person, as they say, character - added Benina, safe
and to find there the unfortunate gentleman.

- De la grandeur.

Ensure here where titles come to stop. "

For a smelly and dirty corridor came to a kitchen where not cooked.

Cooker and kitchen shelves served as a reservoir of empty bottles, broken boxes, broken chairs
and lots of rags. On the ground, on a miserable pallet lay full length D. Ponte Francisco in
sleeves shirt, still, the face was broken. Two big women, kneeling on either side, the one
with a glass of wine and water, rubbing poking the other, we were shouting: "Come back in yes
... What the hell is wrong? ... That is just maulería. Do not want to drink more? ".

Benin, fennel, it was also yelling, shaking, "D. Bottle of my soul, what is that? Open your eyes
and see me: I am the Nina. "

Soon the two tarascas which, incidentally, if foul and ugly to bet there would be no who will win,
not long, say, to give the elderly the explanations of the event asked. Ponte unsupported in the
chambers of Bernarda arrimose the doorway of the chapel Irishmen for the night. There he found
them, and began to give jokes to say things ... masters ... things said and were not to be offended.
Total: the poor poor old man painted it had to be uncomfortable, and chase them with the stick
raised to beating, pataplum, round fell to the ground. Released them laughing, thinking he had encountered;
but when he did not move, came, also came near the serene, he began to face the torch and then saw
it was an attack. Húrgale here, húrgale there, and the good lord as a dead body. Called the
Weasel, discouraged him, saying it was all a sincopiés, and as it is charitable, good Christian
he, and had also studied a year of Veterinary sent bring him home to assist and give back his breath
with poultices and rubs.

This was done by charging between the two and another partner, because the patient weighed a bunch
reeds, and at home, pinches and rubs force, came to himself, and thanked them so kind. The Pitusa
asked him some soup, he took with relish, giving each time the most thank very much ... so
fine, and so remained until the morning, well apañadito on his pallet. They could put in a room
all night because there was just the unemployed, and there in the
old kitchen was very good, being part of ventilation.

The worst thing was that morning when he rose to leave, he repeated the attack, and all gave day
long every hour a syncope so tremendous, that was a corpse, and it was hard to get back to God
and help itself. Had left him in shirtsleeves, because he complained heat, but there was the clothes
without anyone to touch her, nor anything of what toil he had in
his pockets.

Weasel had said that if not recovered in the night, would part of the delegation to bring him
to the hospital.

Pitusa Benina said the pain was sent to the hospital to such an illustrious matron, and she is
determined to take him home, yes ... Struck the mind of the old one bold idea, and the resolution
was primary quality of his character, he hastened to put it in implemented expeditiously. "Want
to hear a word now? - Pitusa told her, seized her the arm out of the kitchen. And at the end
of the hall, entered the room only vividera of the house: a bedroom
with double bed iron hook point quilt, mirrors twisted sheets of concubines,
comfortable crippled, and San Antonio in its base, with flowers rag
and oil lamp.

The dialogue was quick and nervous

"What is offered?

- Well, not
much.

Lend me ten dollars.

- Sena Benina, are you in your mind?

- In them I am, Teresa Rabbit, as it was when I lent you a thousand
real, and I saved to go to jail ... Do not you remember?

It was the year and day of the cyclone that ripped trees the Botanical
... You live on the streets of the Governor, and I in St. Augustine,
where he served ...

- Yes, I agree.

I met you that we bought together ...

- I saw a strong commitment.

-
I was beginning to roll down the world ...

- And rolling, rolling,
fell into temptation ...

- And how you served in big house, I figured
I said, 'Well, that, if you want, you can get me.

"

- You came to me with fear ... what happens ... did not want to lift
your skirt, and I will leave you uncovered.

- But you covered me
... I thanked much, Benin!

- And revenues ... Then you, as you made
peace with the wine store, I paid ...

- Hard on hard.

- Well, now
I'm the one that has fallen: I need two hundred reals, and you'll
give them to me.

- When?

- Right now.

- Mecachis ... San God As
I can not return money chickpeas fireplace!

- Did not you?

"Neither you nor Weasel?

- We like the cock of Moron ... And why do you want the ten dollars?

-
For what you do not mind.

Say yes to me or give me the days. I will pay it soon; and if you
want real hard, there incomeniente.

- It's not that: it is that I
have no quarter cut in half.

This does not bring cattle indecent but misery.

- Válgate God!

"Y. ..?

- No, I have no jewelry.

If it did ...

- Looking good, teacher.

- Well, good. There are two rings.

Not mine: they are the King of Clubs, a friend of Rumaldo that gave them to keep and Rumaldo
gave them to me.

- Well ...

- If you give me your word play within
eight days and bring it to me, but word formal, San God!

Take them ... Give ten long, because one of them has a bright which
gives the falls.

"

Little more was said. Firmly closed the door so no one could pry from the hallway. If someone
did, would not have heard more than a blink of the dresser drawers,
a whisper of Benin, and harsh gargle of the other.

XXII

Soon the two women back next to the collapsed Frasquito, entered the Weasel, which was Achille
a strapping young man of fine appearance, with complexion and features some gitanescas, wide-brimmed
hat, well tight waist, and the first thing he said was soon to be
conducted on interfezto Hospital.

Benina protested, arguing that the disease was Ponte those requiring
home treatment and family at the hospital would die without remedy,
and thus worth more than it will take home of Dona Francisca Juarez,
which, although it had been very least, still was in position to make
a charity, housing countryman Mr. de Ponte, with whom he had, if I
remember, distantly related.

In this he turned his fading the poor lover, and recognizing his benefactress, he kissed her
hands, named Angel, and what I know why, very joyful to see her at his side. With an imperious
gesture, followed by a kick, the Pitusa urchin ordered the two to leave his duty in the front door;
The Weasel fell to ship, and standing alone the Benina and her friend to the poor Ponte, I
wore the coat to take him away and Levitin.

"Here in confidence, D. Bottle - he said Benina - tell us why did not I sent.

- What, ma'am?

- To Bernarda peseta, on account of nights due ... Or is that the penny was spent on something
he needed a guess, in painting the face of the mustache? In this case, I say nothing.

- Cosmetic, no ... I swear it - Frasquito answered with languid accent,
drawing from his mouth words as with a hook -.

Wasted ... but not that ... I had to pro ... pro ... if I will say
at the end ... to provide a photo ... graphy.

"

He fumbled in the pocket of his coat, paws and between letters and
papers, took one that unfolded, showing a photographic portrait, regular
card size.

"Who is this Madame? - Said Pitusa who promptly picked it up for consideration
-.

As beautiful, it is ...

- I wanted - continued Frasquito breath taking each syllable - Obdulia show their perfect likeness
...

- Well, this picture is not the girl - staring Benina said -.

Something you find in the face cut, but is not it.

- Tell you if it looks or not. For me they are identical ... The one or the other, is like that.

- But who is?

- The Empress Eugenie ... But do not see it? He had not only home of Laurent, and not gave
less than a quarter ... Forced to buy it, show the similarity Obdulia
...

- D. Bottle, by the Virgin, we see that to believe you're gone
... Spend the peseta !...». portrait

Sure did not give the poor gentleman,
and carefully keeping the cardboard, buttoned his coat and tried to
stand up, operation could not perform complicated by the extraordinary
weakness of his legs, no thicker than drumsticks.

With the readiness to use used in cases like this, Benin went to take a car, for which previously
had to evacuate another measure of the utmost importance. But as was so executive, soon dispatched, with
ten dollars in his pocket, he returned to Big Midi cab car taken by the hour, and the door the
house stumbled upon Petra drunkenness and his companion Fourth and kilo, which the tavern shouting
out.

- "Yeah, we know that they said took him to tinkle ...-- -. Well behaved women of course, they
consider a man ... Well, well, that's cum ... Well you see you can.

-
Let's see ...!

But as you do not mind, I say ... So what?

- For na ... Finally, relief.

- Glad to have you at the Almudena blind!

- What happens?

- That the lady has waited all afternoon ... I had to go, if the gentleman
was looking for puny!

...

- A recadito gave us to you in case you saw.

- What?

- See if I remember ... Ah! themselves, do not buy the pan ...

- The pot of seven bujeros ... he has brought from his land.

- So what? Are you going to put strainers factory? If not, why are so many omen?

- Shut the very big mouths. Ea, with God.

- And we drive. What a luxury! How do we know who runs the loot!

- That you calléis ... I might as well help lower and put him in the car.

- Well yes. Heart and soul. "

Of entertainment served to all home and outside. It was a noisy function immediately down to Frasquito
are singing songs in funeral, and saying a thousand jokes applied him and the Benin, insensitive
to the outpourings of the vile villain, got into his car, leading
the Andalusian gentleman like a bundle of clothes, and ordered the
driver to bite Imperial Street, snuff taking care of the horse well.

It was not, as is easy to suppose, loose Dona Francisca surprise to see that you got in the house apparently
dying body, transported between Benin and a porter.

Poor Lady had spent the afternoon and evening in mortal anxiety,
and saw a strange thing, believed to have turned the dream or direction.

But the naughty maid hastened to reassure saying that this was no corpse, and its shabby could
be inferred, but sick grave, D. himself Frasquito Ponte Delgado, born in Algeciras, who had found
on the street, and without going into further explanation of the
unprecedented event, came to comfort the Doña Paca troubled spirit
with the betrothal took news that its tough new bag odd, it adds up
to attend to more urgent commitment, and breathing for a few days.

-
"Oh, you take my weight off of my soul - said Mrs. raising hands -.

The God bless you. We're in a position to a charity, picking up this unfortunate ... See?
God in one time point and supports us and says it protects. The favor and obligation accompanying
health.

- We must take things as they have ... wagging the thunder.

- And
where to put this poor scarecrow? - Doña Paca said to Frasquito feeling
that, although I was not unconscious, barely speak or move, lying
on the holy soil arrimadito to the wall.

"

And after marriage and Antonito Obdulia had been sold these beds,
a dispute arose domestic installation, Nina decided to propose to
assemble your bed the little room in the dining room to put it to
the poor sick.

She would sleep on a mattress on the mat, and it would, and would if it were possible to boot
the wretched old nails death.

"But my soul Nina, have you thought through the load that we have
caught up with ...?

You who can not, take me back, and said the other.

Do you think that we are ourselves to get us a protective one?

... But just tell me: Was D. Romualdo blessed who ...?

- Yes, ma'am,
"replied the old ...-- Rumaldo, that stunning was not prepared to
lie.

- Blessed, blessed a thousand times sir!

- She ... Teresa Rabbit.

-
What, woman?

- I say ... But you are not aware of what I mean?

-
You said ... Perchance a hunter D. Romualdo?

- Hunter?

- As you
said do not know what a rabbit.

- He does not hunt, but he was given
... I do not know ... so many things ... partridge, rabbit, field
... Then this afternoon ...

- I, I said, 'Benin, to see how I put
this rabbit morning that brought me ...'.

- Asked if there were to
be in gazpacho or rice, were disputed, and as I said nothing and I
burst into tears, 'Benin, what do you have?

Benin, what's wrong ?...'.

In short, rabbit's foot took the trouble to tell him that I saw ...».

Doña Paca convinced no longer thought only Frasquito install, which
did not seem realized what was happening.

At last when he had gone to bed, recognized the widow of Juarez and showing their gratitude with
handshakes and warm sigh, said:

"This child, this mother ... You are the spitting image of Montijo.

- What does this man?

- Gives because all we seem a. ..

I do not know who ... the emperors of France ... Finally, quit.

- Am I in the palace in the Plaza del Angel? - Ponte said considering the miserable alcove with missing
eyes.

- Yes, sir ... Arrópese now;'re very still to take the dream.

Then he will make a good broth ... and live. "

They left him alone, and began again Benina the street, eager to cover the opening to creditors
rude, that impertinent and shameless pressure overwhelmed the two women. God great pleasure
of bringing them to the harsh hills that they had made more provisions, was to the streets
of Rue, and with her basket full of good food and the heart of hope, thinking freedom from the shame
of begging, at least for a couple of days, returned home. Methodical promptly went to work in
the kitchen, accompanied by his mistress, who was also smiling and joyful. "You know what happened
to me - told Benina - at the time you've been away? Well I was dormidita on the couch, and dreamed
that two men came home grave clothes black. Were D. Morquecho and D. Francisco José María Porcell,
my countrymen, who came to involved the death of D. Pedro Jose Garcia of the Antrines, carnal
uncle of my husband.

- Poor lord is dead! - Nina cried with all my heart.

- And that D. Peter Joseph, who is one of the first rich men of the Highlands ...

- But tell me, is what I dreamed account or is it?

- Wait, woman.

These two gentlemen came, D. Francisco and D. José María, a physician,
the another town clerk ... they came to tell me that the Antrines
Garcia, uncle flesh of my Antonio, I was appointed probate ...

-
Ya ...

- And ... the thing is clear ... as such had no direct succession,
naming heirs ...

- Who?

- Be quiet, woman ... It left half of his
assets to my children Obdulia and Antonito, and the other half to
Frasquito Ponte.

What do you think?

- That the blessed Lord should make him a saint.

- They told D. Francisco and D. José María you were looking for days to let me know inheritance,
and wondering here and there, finally found out the address of this house ... Say by whom?
by the priest D. Romualdo, already proposed to the bishop, who told I also had picked Mr. de
Ponte ... 'So - I said, laughing - that come to offer you our respect,
my lady, kill two birds with one stone.

"

- But let's accounts: this is, as they say, dreamed.

- Sure: Have not you heard that I fell asleep on the couch? ... As these two gentlemen who
were to visit, died thirty years ago, when I was the girlfriend of
Antonio ... just imagine ... and García de los Antrines was very old
then.

I have not heard from him ... Yes, all has been the work of a dream, but so vividly that even I
find that I am looking ... Te I tell it to laugh ... no, it is laughable
that dreams ...

- Dreams, dreams, whatever they want - Nina said
- are also from God, and who will know what is true and what is false?

-
Cabal ... Who tells you that behind or below or above this world we
see, there is no another world where people live who have died?

... And who tells you that dying is nothing fashion and lifestyle? ...

- Below, underneath is all that - said the other meditatively -.

I make the dream case because it could happen, a comparison, that those who come here go over there
and bring us the remedy for our ills. Below ground there is another world, and the point is
to know how and when we can talk to the living Soterraña. They have to know how badly we here,
and we dream we see how well you go over there ... I do not know if I explain ... say there
is no justice, and for the Haig, will dream whatever we please, and dreaming, a guess, here we
will bring justice. "

Doña Paca replied with a string of sighs drawn from the depths of his chest, and Benin was
launched, with fever and tenacity of a fixed idea, to think again about the wonderful spell.
Restless tinkering in the kitchen, my mind's eye, I saw only the pot of seven bujeros, laurel
stick, clothing, and prayer ... Démontrer of prayer! This really that was hard!

XXIII

Everything was fine the next morning: Don Frasquito improving
hour by hour, and the entendederas middle state clearly, Doña Paca
happy, well-stocked home vittles, that the next day and insured, so
the poor could Benina rest of his pitiful bid in San Sebastian.

But to be so necessary to sustain the comedy of their care at the home of church, went as usual, the
basket on his arm, ready to keep the morning and do something useful. Upon leaving his mistress
said: "I think we'll have to make a gift our D. Romualdo ... It should show that we are grateful and
well educated. Bring from me two bottles of Champagne a good brand to accompany them stew,
you do today, the rabbit.

- But she's crazy, lady? Do you know what they cost two bottles of Champagne? We pawn for three
months. You will always be the same. For like both look good, is now so poor. And we will give
when we drop the lottery, because today is not going to look I who
give one penny at a tenth of those three.

- Well, well: go with God.

"

And it was the lady to talk to Frasquito, which was animated and talkative. One and one evoked memories
of land they were born Andalusian, raising families, people and events;
you talk and talk, Doña Francisca walked out the registration of his
dream, but was saved well to tell the citizen.

"Tell me, Ponte: What has become of D. Pedro Jose Garcia of the Antrines?.

" After a painful espurgo in obscure folders of your memory, said Vial that D. Peter had died
the year of the Revolution.

"Go, go, and I thought he was still alive. Do you know who inherited their property?

- As his son Rafael, who has not wanted to marry. And goes for old.

It could be that will remember us, your children from you and me,
as it has closer relatives.

- Ay! do not doubt you, will remember
...-- Doña Paca said with great animation in his eyes and the word -.
