 The noise that made water, goose frogs,
it was the only thing that interrupted the wonderful silence that
reigned in lathe.

Poldy, by thoughtless and curious instinct, continued walking along the Bank of the lagoon toward
the site where the Tower looked like. And while already very close to him, he was suddenly an object
that, even though she was not shy, he was a nervous sway, for showing so suddenly and when
less so suspicious. It was a large white stork, which left behind of the Tower, and without
the least dismay, but mansa and serene, it came towards Poldy with step slow, serious and
majestic. From time to time moving the head to one side and another with funny vanity. When it
was close, he gave some hoops, stretched and broke the long wings as in jubilation, and opening
and closing several times the Red peak, produced a very similar to the of castanets are. Turning
then to walk more slowly and with some hesitation, as if the respect would contain you, followed
by the basking bird walking towards Poldy, and stopping at every
two or three steps as if you awaiting permission to reach it.

Poldy understood the intention of the bird; did not fear anything because it was considered harmless,
but it surprised that he showed so loving and so resolutely and long Strider their stringers, you
come to it as if it were an old friend of his. You would have known and dealt with before and would
not remember it then? Poldy sought in vain all the more deep and forgotten breasts of his memory
some vague memories of that knowledge and treatment. It was not the lower trail or the lighter
footprint of having ever had. The same Stork let her see that she had never met Poldy, because although
it wise not to express themselves in any human language, but only with the resonant castañetazos
of its peak, the slow pace of its progress, frequent stops and each one of the looks that his
Brown eyes directed to Poldy seemed to mean interrogation and appeal, as if say: funny Countess,
can I V. e. me closer and treat it? There were also in the Stork a do not know what of exotic:
somewhat weird if, quite similar to that note in a traveller of distinction, come from very
remote countries, with whom by such a face and conducting conversation without thinking about it
or pretend it and only because of sudden and mysterious sympathy.

Poldy, no doubt, sympathised with the Stor