 

EUMORFO .-- That same repeat myself. How could you sink into the center
of the earth?

Inicua .-- CREMATURGO! We were fooling everyone.

EUMORFO .-- This goes from dark brown. Three at the same time!

CREMATURGO .-- What can you claim for yourself?

.-- EUMORFO mute wonder.

Asclepigenia .-- I do not become silent or with reason or without it. In order to show you that
the reason I need, I will tell a parable, if you are quiet to hear it.

CREMATURGO .-- Account.

EUMORFO .-- I hear.

Asclepigenia. (A Proclus, who has been and is silent since it came.) And what do you say?

PROCLEAN .-- Nothing. I hear you too.

Asclepigenia .-- In the garden of this palace is a rose, which was almost dry and lost found
in sterile soil .-- What do you need? I said to myself to contemplate .-- Mulch, I replied. It is necessary
that corrupt substance that is absorbing mulch rose sap you must give invigorating freshness,
gala and elegance to its leaves and flowers. I covered then with Mulch the roots and the foot
of the tree, and the rose has budded and bloomed like a charm. The greens of the leaves is bright,
your roses are divine. The petals of these roses have on the color of dawn: the center looks golden
cup: the cup is honey. What being delicate, elegant, light, nice, consistent with the rose petals
you can play without withering, and suck the honey from the cup with the appropriate smoothness
and refinement? - An air, painted and cheerful Butterfly, I thought. And just as I had thought
and wanted, came the most gentle and playful butterfly I've seen in my life, and hovering around
the pink, rested on his breast, without skewing only the flexible stem, and Libo honey golden
cup. I noticed, however, that this was not enough.

Rose was clear exquisite fragrance, which was dissipated by the atmosphere
and the zephyr spreading their wings.

In the rose was also extraordinary beauty, reflecting the idea, perfection of forms, which contains
pure artistic thoughts. This can only understand intelligence.

Only the spirit can enjoy all this.

Thus, the butterfly has no intelligence or spirit, not even smell,
the rose was missing after the best.

Her clothes were worth more without end and without purpose.

Then I saw clearly that if the mulch and the Butterfly were essential for Rose, were more indispensable
even higher mind, spirit and conscience I understand and admire him. Apply now and you will
recognize my justification parable. I am the rose, thou Crematurgo, you mulch, you Eumorfo, butterfly,
and Proclus is nose sucking aroma and the mind that considers the beauty and dignity enjoyed it. What
fault Rose becomes that nothing is complete in this underworld? Pity is not achieved mulch,
butterfly, nose and mind in a single being! As Rose needed this and not was meeting, I had to
look separately.

CREMATURGO .-- I do not really Avenger. Not to be litter and nothing else. Farewell, ungrateful
(Exit)

EUMORFO .-- Nor I am resigned to be a butterfly unintelligent, especially when out of love I had
already put yours to study philosophy. Infamous Goodbye! (Exit)

SCENE XI.

Asclepigenia, Proclus.

Mulch and butterfly .-- Asclepigenia leave me. Do I abandon you too, Proclus mine?

PROCLEAN .-- I confess that my soul is shattered. Maybe I would do well to escape from your
side forever, but there is a force that keeps me close to you. In vain I wanted to spiritualize,
sanctify the ancient civilization, cheerful and fond of beauty, but light. No success, however,
to divorce her. I am of her. I'm hopelessly yours.

The embarrassing and hard disappointment not kill the love of my
heart to demolish the entire philosophical edifice with so much zeal
and I had raised arrogance.

I figure that falls on me the just punishment of pride spirit. The spirit turned away with
scorn of nature, wanted to rise atop the intelligence and facts; struggled to move beyond being
itself, aspired to be confused with the immutable principle of all being. The mystical union,
that I am therefore proud, was not illusion definitely unhealthy.

The indefinable principle of being, which I thought to join, and
which all claimed to be denied, was not: it was nothing.

My supposed identification with death he was selfish.

No death was generous of him who, loving life, knows how to give
for the triumph of a noble idea, for their country, for the happiness
of the beloved.

My itching to get lost in the A, absorbed, impersonal, that everything
is itself and nothing is the most monstrous perversion of the spirit.

Is not able to live and enjoy within the various and beautiful universe.

Is to create a mystique opposite of love. Mysticism refocuses my soul: love the spread. Point the
spirit of nature, what can you expect but what and I regret it now?

" Or the delusion that nothing takes the principle of being, or the
baseness, the lowering the impure rude and brutal appetite for material
pleasures, which has won the nature, in society and in every thought,
when the spirit leaves them.

In contrast, What value is the spirit that moves away from the real
world, believing and worshiping the divine worship to himself?

Or to resist the blows of misfortune more vulgar retained sufficient
vigor.

What will power I have?

I can only vile and cowardly resignation or die penalty here, as
nervous little woman.

What a shame! I can not. Alas!

(Proclus falls unconscious in the chair long.)

Atenais .-- Asclepigenia! Atenais! Attend! Oh calamity! Go, bring a bottle of essences. We
ran out of philosophy! There is no longer possible philosophy. Since there are only positive
sciences and prosaic. I killed my philosopher. (He leans over him and embraced him with the
greatest tenderness.) Smells bad, but ... Is so wise! Is so good!

SCENE XII.

SUCH, ATESTAIS.

(Atenais Asclepigenia helps care for Proclus, using a jar of scents
to their noses)

Atenais .-- Calm down.

It's nothing. And regains consciousness.

Asclepigenia .-- I have been a good scare! Poor thing my dear! Too bad it gave me!

Proclus. (Gets up.) - Forgive me, friend.

It was a moment of weakness. (Repairing in Atenais.) Who is this dashing damsel?

Asclepigenia .-- It Atenais, daughter of Leonard.

PROCLEAN .-- The daughter of my learned and illustrious friend!

... Heaven bless you, Atenais!

Asclepigenia .-- Will you forgive me, Proclus?

PROCLEAN .-- Say no more of the past: forget it.

Asclepigenia .-- Will you live with me?

PROCLEAN .-- I do not want and I can live without you.

You are the star that illuminates with its gentle light the melancholy
evening of my life.

These soft white hands (making hers) sealed with love when they meet
my eyes to sleep the last sleep.

Contigo .-- Asclepigenia not miss neither wealth nor the body beautiful
... What else beauty that more wealth than the treasures of your soul?

If required, we will live to the fullest strait.

Something I can spoil the cook's hands and clothing remendarte. Elegance, dedication, the scent of
aristocratic distinction will vanish almost entirely when live miserably.

But what matter? Do I possess your soul and mine?

PROCLEAN .-- There has to be. Not consent to be lost or deteriorate even a spark or an atom
of all the beauty that nature gave you and that art has been completed and enhanced. I earn
wealth for you. For you will have lush beauty and youth body.

Asclepigenia .-- Do not freak out, Proclus. The youth is gone, never returns. Venus Urania not visited
you for no reason. As for wealth, I certainly did not ever win a mite with all your philosophy,
unless that appeals to the miracle.

PROCLEAN .-- Well, the miracle appealed. Now you will see who I am.

Here I love you, oh Theurgy! For something I have to serve. So far, Asclepigenia idolized, and
have owned in Eumorfo in Crematurgo beauty, youth and wealth, quotas, limited and outdated. From
now on later you will have youth, beauty and wealth at all and forever. Saved religious silence. And
starts the spell.

(Deep silence. Proclus, waving his stick, he draws air in circles, and other magical figures,
and muttered unintelligible words.

Hear celestial music, slow and submissive. In the center of the theater is a brilliant and
candid curdled cloud with carmine red glow, gold and pearl.)

And Atenais Asclepigenia .-- What wonder!

PROCLEAN .-- Hiding in the cloud you already have, at your service
and your service, replacing Eumorfo and Crematurgo, the archer Apollo,
the most elegant and beautiful of the gods, and the son of Jasion
and Ceres, Pluto the blind, a dispenser of wealth.

Want to go with retinues of muses, graces, nymphs, genii, or go alone?

Asclepigenia

.-- To go out alone. And asking them to go in the time convenient, everything I can think of.

PROCLEAN .-- Appear gods!

(Opens the cloud, and out of her bright Bengal, Pluto, lame, blind and winged, and Apollo, very
bizarre and airy, with a purple robe, crown of laurel and lyre in hand.)

PROCLEAN .-- What else do you have to ask?

Asclepigenia .-- Nothing. I was content to your love.

PROCLEAN .-- reflect, however, if something is missing.

Asclepigenia .-- If I am not accused of being overrun beggar and demanding, yet I would ask one
thing.

PROCLEAN .-- What?

Asclepigenia .-- That you wash.

PROCLEAN .-- I'll wash.

Already .-- Atenais happy. Possess science, beauty, youth, wealth and even toilet. I, helpless
and needy, far from envy you, rejoice.

PROCLEAN .-- Heaven will reward you, generous Atenais.

Yo, I'm now inspired, I read in the future your eminent destiny.

The younger Theodosius, who educates her sister Pulcheria well, so
shine on the imperial throne, will marry you.

So you will be Empress of the East. Will be happy and powerful without resorting to magic,
but will have to make a Christian. Finally, for that our glory and our happiness are more wonderful
and McCabe, after passing chop or fourteen centuries, counting from the day of the date shown
on the smiling and fertile Betic cradle of the dynasty and home to
your grandfather Theodosius the Great Political and countless other
Eminent persons, a witty and truthful writer, which is to write about
Tonight's events in a dialogue, where trying to compete with the divine
Plato in the high and severe, and the satirist Lucian in the funny
and cheerful.

I Atenais .-- Much of idle if your predictions are true.

Asclepigenia .-- And me too. I fear, however, that this dialogue, which Proclus announces,
is a extravaganza without amenities and without liveliness, where we figured, not as real people,
but as allegorical characters, where Proclus and I represent the old and corrupt sensual poetry
ancient knowledge and exhausted, desperate and barren, that are delivered live together to
witchcraft and superstitions.

Atenais .-- If the allegory may have some application when the dialogue is written, perhaps
interested in dialogue.

Asclepigenia .-- Whatever happens, should not matter much. There you are the author. Five of
us, mortals and gods, come to the couch, where I have prepared a
succulent and spicy dinner.

GODS AND DEATH .-- Let's go to dinner.

GOPA

PHILOSOPHICAL DIALOGUE IN THREE PICTURES.

TABLE I.

The scene is Capilavastu City: 593 years before Christ.

Interior
of the magnificent palace of Prince Siddhartha. It is night. House
of the thalamus, lit a lamp of gold.

GOPA .-- PRATYAPATI.

PRATYAPATI
.-- The king's servants more vigilant Sudono roam around the palace.
The city ??gates are defended. Not go away. It must not go. Without
it what will of us? With equal vehemence we love him, though in different
ways. I love him like my son. When, shortly after giving life, died
BU mother Maya Devi, their request was Siddhartha to my care. They
did not want the gods that she lived, so they do not suffer what we
have today.

GOPA .-- Immense pain overwhelms us. Why irremediable
blight her beautiful face sad? Why you want to leave? What's missing,
what is waning in me? I would have preferred to gods, as he preferred
to Nal Damayanti. My fortune is estimated to obey with humility and
be all yours. Ungrateful! Your heart can not be still insatiable in
my love. His noble head never lying still on my breast. I no longer
love. Judge me unworthy of her affection.

.-- PRATYAPATI not torment
yourself, oh Gopa! Siddhartha loves you. To him you are the favorite
to be among all beings. But love is grief. Love is his martyrdom.
Love is devoured, creating in his soul an infinite pity, not condone
nor delight, nor joy, nor peace alone. All the evils of life weigh
on your heart, comprising in their affection the lives of the three
worlds. Love, eldest son of nature, by a fatal expansion of its divine
essence, be given to that lives, and life was born the pain, poverty,
disease and death. It seems that Siddhartha is the embodiment, the
avatar of love, weeping and regrets having created life; itself suffering
as every life has suffered, and longs to roll back the life to nothing
for the suffering ends.

Ephemeral .-- GOPA's life: the suffering
that emerges should be too.

PRATYAPATI .-- No, Gopa, life has no
end. Death is change, no end. Entrained in the current life, so moved,
but not of essence, which always comes back reborn or for pain. In
this sense, the gods, the asuras, and men are equally immortal.

GOPA
.-- And there is no happy?

PRATYAPATI .-- None. Unhappiness is the
first condition of life.

GOPA .-- Why Love created life, and unhappiness
with her?

PRATYAPATI .-- For Love was not free. As the spring sun
rays as the water flows from the source and flowed and flowed Love
life. Just sublime compassion moved, under superior effort to the
human and divine, collecting itself with portentous abstraction, Love
achieved also record themselves and give life eternal stillness.

GOPA
.-- I see you think like Siddhartha. Clap, no doubt, its purpose,
I do not understand.

PRATYAPATI .-- To some extent I like him but
its purpose is bold, it seems impossible, and bold and impossible
not applaud. If he was called, as he thinks, to be the deliverer of
men, I would and would gladly sacrifice a few to do to achieve it.

GOPA
Pratyapati .-- Oh! How mixed feelings are ours! If you love him as
mother, I, as a wife, a woman in love I love him. This mode of love
is less strong, usually the mother's love. Mother's love is much that
is born from the womb and rooted there. So, not only women but the
same fierce love their offspring. The woman in love with a man when
he just loves to love from the heart, does not love you more he loves
his mother, but when you love with love the spirit, love you a thousand
and a thousand times the most loving mother, she idolizes, he looks
like a god, have faith in him, he believed capable of everything great
and everything good and thinks that his will, which is law for it
must be born a miracle, the good and happiness for all. I do not know,
I do not understand the purpose of Siddhartha, but I know and understand
it will be good purpose, and to achieve, if you want. If by that I
do to achieve the greatest sacrifice I am eager to make.

PRATYAPATI
unhappy .-- Oh weak woman! What miserable resignation is yours? You
alone can Prince stop chain with the delight of your affection, but
the veneration Prince excites you inspires you to break that chain.
Violence will not be enough to keep him, but if your soft white arms
intrigue you, how do you depart from each other to go where dreams
that their vocation is calling? The king puts his hope in you. Not
disappoint. Retaining Siddhartha the spell of your love and your beauty.
Do not let him since .... Sorry steps. Siddhartha is coming. I will
not be staying here. Courage, Gopa oh!

(Goes Pratyapati.)

GOPA .--
Encouragement .... I needed to stop him, not need. I need to leave
from all my courage.

(Enter the Prince.