 Ask me later with no less
love, if he knew it was there. Replied the holy man, no doubt for my sins. That is, my son:? But that
sin? Speak without rezelo. For more than kill me, could not manage, until the charity of the pious
inquisitor gave me some light. I remembered the end of my reckless words, and I was not convicted
of more than Exercises, discipline, and thirty thousand pieces of fine. They carried on to thank
the Grand Inquisitor, sugeto very friendly, I wonder what I had thought that her party. Deliciosisima
Rospondile was, and I went for my haste saliesemos companions to the country, since it is so
enjoyable. These had taken place to informed of all the great deeds delivered again by the Spaniards
for the sake of religion, and read the memories of the famous bishop of Chiapas, where it has beheaded,
burned or drowned idolatrous ten million Americans to convert them to our holy faith. Well
I think it weighs something the bishop, but rebaxe although half of the victims, is still proved
a prodigious zeal.

Atormentabame burning constantly traveling, and was determined to end my pilgrimage to Europe
for Turkey. Encamineme to this, with a firm purpose of not saying my mind again about the parties
he had seen. These Turks, dixe my companions, they're pagans have not received the holy baptism,
and certainly should be more cruel than the holy inquisitors callemonos then, while living among
Moros.

This would encourage, but was astonished to see many more temples in Turkey Christians on the
island where he was born, and even grown congregations friars, who dexaban in peace to pray
to the Virgin Mary, and Muhammad curse, some in Greek, some in Latin, and other in Armenian.
iQue honest people are the Turks! I exclaimed. The Greek and Latin Christians irreconcilable
enemies in Constantinople, and these slaves are chasing each other like dogs that bite in the
street, and that separate suits their masters. Then the grand vizier protected the Greeks: the Greek
Patriarch, who had accused me of dinner with the Latin patriarch, and was convicted of the
divan a hundred sticks on the soles of the feet, to rescue price five hundred sequins. Hanged
the next day the Grand Vizier, and the third his successor, which was not hung up there a month,
I condemn the same fine for having dinner with the patriarch Greek so that I saw in the sad
precision frequeentar not the Greek church or America. For comfort rented a beautiful Circassian,
who was the most affectionate person alone with a man, and the most devout at the mosque.
One night, the soft taste of love exclaimed giving me a hug: Allah, Ilah, Allah, are the sacramental
words of the Turks; I thought you were the love, And I said with much love: Allah, Ilah, Allah.
Ha, he said the delay, Merciful God be praised, and you are Turkish. I replied that he thanked
the Lord that had given me strength to be, and I thought it was very happy. Morning came to get
circumcised the magnet, and I have difficulty putting, I proposed the cadi of the neighborhood, a man
of good composition, I would send impaled. Free at last my foreskin and my back for a thousand
sequins, and I escape running Persia, resolved not to hear Mass in Turkey Greek or Latin,
and if ever Allah, Ilah, Allah in the moments from the likes of love.

So get to Ispahan, I asked if it was the party of black sheep or ram white. Replied that the same
one that gave me another, which makes it tender. It must be noted that Persia was still divided
into two factions, the ram's black and white. I believe that by mocking both parties, and I
found myself in a terrible commitment to gate of the city, of whom
I left paying a lot of sequins, not having to do with sheep.

Do not stop to China, which comes with an interpreter, he said that I was the country where could
live happy and free: the Tatars had invaded it they placed all blood and fire, while the reverend
Jesuit Fathers on the one hand, and the reverend fathers Dominicans second, they said winning souls
for heaven, without anybody noticing. Have never been more zealous converters, are chasing
each other with the most fervent ardor, wrote Rome whole volumes of libel, and tried by a
faithless infidels and soul. There was an awful row between them about how to do the courtesy,
the Jesuits The Chinese wanted to greet their parents to the fashion of China, and Dominicans
it was the fashion of Rome. Sucediome the Jesuits thought I was a Dominican, and they told
him that His Majesty was Tartara spy of the Pope. Commission gave the supreme council a first
mandarin to arrest me, the qual command a sheriff, who had at his command four brackets, which
seized me, and I bound with all ceremony. Conduxeronme, after hundred and forty prostrations, before
His Majesty, I wonder if I was a spy of the Pope and if it was true that the prince had to
come in person to dethrone him. I replied that Pope was a clergyman of more than seventy years,
that his statements were far more than four thousand miles those of his Sacred Majesty Tartaro-China,
that his army was two thousand soldiers standing guard with a para-waters not anyone dethroned,
and I could sleep without His Majesty fear. This was the least fatal adventure of my life, as
did more than send me to Macao, where I embarked for Europe.

It was necessary to caulk the ship off the coast of Golconda, and I take advantage of the opportunity
to see the court of the Aurengzeb, of whom there were then a thousand wonders. It was this
monarch in Delhi, and enjoy the taste imponderable façade to façade behold the day of the pompous
ceremony that received the heavenly gift that he sent the sheriff of Mecca, and was the broom
which had swept the holy house, the Kaaba, the Belho-Allah: broom is a symbol that alimpia all
the filth of the soul. It appears that did not need Aurengzeb, who was the male more Hindustan
religious whole, since it had beheaded one of his brothers, and given poison his father, and
had destroyed a scaffold twenty Omra rajas and many others, but That did not mean anything,
and nobody talked about anything but his devotion to whom is the of no other comparable, as
it was not that of the sacred majesty of the Most Serene Emperor
Morocco, Mulcy Ishmael, qual a quantas heads cut every Friday, after
to prayer.

No article I word that I had chastened the voyages, and knew it was not competent judge to adjudicate
between these two August sovereign. I confess, however, that a French boy, who locked, lacking
the respect due to the emperors of India and Marruceos, saying with great imprudence in Europe had
very principles governing sovereign rightly his states, and also frequeentaban churches, without taking
life so their parents and siblings or cut the head of his vassals. Our language interpreter realized
expressions india impias of this boy. I trained with him on other occasions I had happened, send saddle
camels, and went with the French. Later I learned that night had come and fetch him great
Aurengzeb officials, and not having found more than the interpreter, was this executed in the
main square, without flattery confessed all that was very fair palace
his death.

Quedabame to see the Africa to enjoy all the delights of our hemisphere, and saw effect. Black
corsairs seized my vessel. My boss complaining bitterly, and ask them for violating the laws
of nations. He was answered by Captain black: Your nose is long, and our flat, your hair is smooth,
and our wool curl, your skin is ashen-gray color and our Ebony, therefore under the sacrosanct
laws of nature, we must always be enemies. At fairs You give us of Guinea, as if we were pack
animals, to force us to work in not that such tough tasks as ridiculous, to vergajazos haceis
we pierce the mountains to get a kind of yellow powder that nothing is good, and that's no good,
or very, a chive Egypt. Quando So you find us, and we can only, I force them to labreis our land,
and if not you cut the noses and ears.

There was replicated as discrete reasoning. I went to the tilth of a black woman by keep my ears
and my nose, and after a year I rescued. Having seen all quanto good, beautiful and admirable
in the earth, I determined to see no more than my household gods:
I married in my country, I was a cuckold, and saw it was the most
pleasant condition of human life.

       

End of the voyages of castigating.

       

* * * * *

MICROMEGAS,

Philosophical history.

* * * * *

CHAPTER ONE.

Journey of a denizen of the world of the star Sirius to the planet Saturn.

There was one of the planets revolving around the star called Sirius, a boy much talent, whom
I had the honor of meeting in the last journey he made to our paltry nest. Micromegas was his
name, a name that falls perfectly to all large, and had eight leagues high, I mean twenty-four
thousand five steps geometric calipers.

Some algebraist, caste people are very useful to the public, to take this step in my story pen, and
calculated that taking the Lord Don Micromegas, Sirius country dweller, from soles to occiput
twenty-four thousand feet, making one hundred and twenty thousand feet King, and we citizens
of the land going through the community of five feet, and taking our globe nine thousand miles
in circumference, it is absolutely essential that the planet where our national hero has fully
twenty-one million six hundred thousand times circumference of our earth. Well, nothing is more
common and more natural, and states certain princelings of Germany or Italy, which may beating
in half an hour, compared with Turkey, Russia, or Spanish America, is an image, still very distant
from Indeed, the differences that nature has established among men.

It is the height of His Excellency that we said, where all our painters colegiran and sculptors,
whose body might be about fifty thousand feet in circumference king because is very well proportioned.
His understanding of the most insightful is that you can see he knows a multitude of things, and some
have invented: only bordered with the two hundred and fifty years, while a student at the
Jesuit college of your planet, as there style is common, I guess by the force of his intelligence
over fifty propositions of Euclid, which are eighteen but did Blaise Pascal, the qual having guessed,
according to her sister, thirty and two playing, became, walking
the years, fed medium geometry, and malisimo metaphysical.

Age of four hundred and fifty years, but not to get out of childhood, dissects a very small
insects that did not reach a hundred feet in diameter, and the microscopes were hiding regular,
and wrote a book about them very funny, but that he brought not a few surprises. The mufti
of his country, not less ticklish than ignorant, found in his book proposals suspicious, ill-sounding,
rash, heretical, or smelling of heresy, and he chased the death, then tried to see if the substantial
form of fleas from Sirius was of the same nature that of the snails. Micromegas Defendiose
salty, declared the women in their favor, because after two hundred and twenty years which had lasted
the lawsuit, did Mufti condemn the book for qualifiers that he had not read nor could read, and
was banished court time the author for eight years.

Not much afflicted him out of a court full of intrigue and gossip. He composed a few tenths very
funny against the mufti, that this does not give a damn, and devoted himself to travel planet
to planet, only to perfect his reason and his heart, as they say. Those who are used to walking
in car cufflinks, or chaise was amazed at the carriages up there, because we, in our ball of
mud, do not understand other styles than ours. Fully knew the laws of gravitation and the forces
attractive and repulsive our walker, and he used them so well that
now mounted in a sunbeam, now riding a kite, balloon balloon went
he and his servants, as well as a paxarillo flits from branch to branch.

Soon there run the Milky Way; and I regret to confess that never could descry, among the stars that
is planted, that beautiful sky empyrean, who with his spyglass discovered the illustrious Derham,
curate [Footnote: English Wise, author of Theology astronomical, and other works, who strives to
prove the existence of God by the contemplation of the wonders of nature.]. I do not say why that
has not been very well Mr Derham, God forbid size of committing mistake, but after Micromegas was
in the country, and was a good observer: I do not want to contradict anyone.

After many journeys came a day Micromegas the globe of Saturn, and although he was used to see new
things, yet we stop confusing the smallness of this planet and its inhabitants, and could
not release the smile of superiority that can not contain more sane sometimes. Truth is that
Saturn is nine hundred times larger than the earth, and the inhabitants the country are dwarfs
of about two thousand yards, with a short difference in height. Riose to top of them with their
servants, as does an Italian musician Lulli's music, when it comes
to France, but Sirius was the man of reason, and quickly recognized
that one could very well be that thought to have nothing of ridiculous,
since there from six thousand feet height.

Acostumbrose to Saturninus, after having been shocked, and became
a close friend of the secretary of the Academy of Saturn, a man of
great talent, which in truth nothing was invented, but very nicely
gave account of the inventions of others, and to regularly couplets
girls and big load.

I'll post here, to the satisfaction of my readers, a conversation
very surprised that the secretary had one day Mr. Micromegas.

CHAPTER II.

Sirius Talk to the inhabitants of Saturn.

HE went to bed, went up to his face to the secretary, and said Micromegas: We confess that is
very diverse nature. Truth is, he said the Saturnino; is nature as a garden, whose flowers
.... Ha, he said the other, DEXA gardening. As it is, followed the Secretary, as a reunion of
blonde and brunette, whose adornments ..... What do I care about your brunette? interrupted
the other. Or as a gallery of squares, whose images ...... No, Sir, no, replied the traveler,
nature is as nature. ? A what the hell you walk looking for those comparisons? For to rejoice,
'said the secretary. If I do not want to recreate me, what I want you to teach, "said the traveler.
Tell me what senses are first quantos men of your globe. Nothing more than seventy-two, he
said the academic and everyday We complain about such a shortage, that our imagination is dexa
back our needs, and we believe that with our seventy-two senses, our annulled, and our five
moons do not have enough, and it is true that despite our great curiosity and passion that of
our seventy-two senses are daughters, we have plenty of time to get bored. Well what I think,
he said Micromegas, because on our globe we have about a thousand ways, and we still are not
that vague desires, not that concern, which constantly tells us that we are girl thing, and that
other beings much more perfect. I made a few voyages, and have seen other very inferior to
us mortals, and others who are far superior, but I have seen no with no more desires than real
needs, and more needs satisfaction. Perhaps a day will END a country where nothing is needed, but
I have not been told of this country. Then threw themselves to form conjectures on Saturnino
and Sirius, but after many no less ingenious reasoning uncertain, was forced to re-establish
facts. ? Quanto long live? he said the Syrian. Ha, very little, "replied the man from Saturn. The
same is true in our country, 'said the Syrian, we are always complaining about the shortness
of life. Must is that it is universal pension of nature. Alas! our lives, 'said the Saturnino
is five hundred revolutions of the sun movie (coming to be fifteen thousand years, or near,
counting as us.) You see that it is almost die so that one is born: it is our existence one
point, a moment our lives, our globe an atom, and each instruction is just beginning something, when
death snatches before experience. As for me I dare not any draft form, and I am like a drop of
water in the vast ocean, and what more sonroxo cause me in your presence, quan look ridiculous
in this figure do world. Micromegas answered her: If you were not a philosopher, would have, the
apprehension of desconsolaros, telling that is our life seven hundred times more extensive than
yours, but you well know that when has been to restore the body to the elements, and revive
differently Baxo nature that is what you call die, Quando is reached, say, this moment of metamorphosis,
it matters little have lived forever or one day alone, two is the same. I have been in countries
where people live a thousand times more than mine, and I saw that still complained, but are
everywhere sugetos of reason, who can resign, and give thanks to the author of nature, which
with a wonderful kind of uniformity has spread in the universe varieties with an endless profusion.
So par example, all people who think they are different, and they all look in the gift of thinking
and desire. Everywhere is the matter extensive, but each has different properties globe. ? Qantas of
these properties have your area? If you speak of the properties without the quale we could
not survive our globe as he is, he said the Saturnino, do not exceed three hundred, to wit the extension,
impenetrability, mobililad, gravity, divisibility, etc.. Without doubt, replied the walker,
which is sufficient for such a short number of breeder plan your intimate room, and in all
things I love his wisdom, because if all I see differences, also provides in all proportions. Your globe
is small, and so are its inhabitants, you have few feelings, and your subject has a few properties:
this is the disposal of Providence. ? Color is your sun well tested? Very ashen white, 'said the Saturnino,
and when we divide one of its rays, we find that has seven colors. The strip our flesh, he
said the Syrian, and we thirty-nine primary colors. In all quanta have examined, I have not
found a sun that looks like another, and not on your planet is a
face that no differs from all others.

After many queestiones analog, was reported to be different substances quantas Saturn knew, and
was answered that he had until about thirty, God, space, matter, people who feel large, extensive
beings who feel and think, people they think and are not widespread, which penetrate, and not
penetrate, and so on. The Sirius world in which there are three hundred, and that he had discovered
in his travels up to three thousand, I leave necessarily extraordinary philosopher stunned to
Saturn.

Finally, having communicated a quanto another almost all knew and
did not know many things, and having discoursed for space of an entire
solar revolution, were determined to make a short journey together
philosophical.

CHAPTER III.

Journey of two people from Sirius and Saturn

They were to board our two walkers in the atmosphere of Saturn with a very decent provision of
mathematical instruments, when the lady of Saturninus, who knew, it came to make bitter complaints.
This was a very graceful brunette, who had no more than fifteen hundred feet high, but repaired
with the boy through his body. iha cruel! exclaimed, I've resisted after fifteen hundred years,
when I had just given up, having no above last hundred years in your arms, go ime abandoned by traveling
with a giant another world!

Come on, you're not more than a curious, and have never been in love, that if you were Saturnino
legitimate, most constant serious. Where are you going? ? You want? less wandering is that you
our five moons, and less changeable our annulled. This is just, I want anymore. Philosopher embraced her,
weeping with her, as philosopher, and the lady, after having fainted, went to console with
a dude.

They cut our two curious and jumped first to nullify they found very flattened as you guessed
a famous inhabitant of our globule, and from there they went to moon in moon. A comet passing
close to the last, and threw him with his servants and instruments.

Just had walked a hundred and fifty million miles, they encountered satellites Jupiter. Alighted
on this planet, where they stopped a year, and learned very secret curious, which would have
given to the press, had it not been for the inquisitors propositions have found something hard
to swallow, but I managed to read the manuscript the library of the Most Illustrious Archbishop
of ... allowed me to register their books, with all the generosity and kindness that characterize
such an illustrious prelate.

Let us return however to our walkers. Leaving Jupiter, passed through a space of about a hundred
million miles, and cost the planet Mars, the qual, as everyone knows, is five times smaller than
our globule, and they saw two moons that serve this planet, and have not our astronomers have discovered.
While the abbot was written in much Donayre Ximenez against the existence of these moons,
but I appeal to those run by analogy, all great philosophers who know very well that it will be possible
to live without two moons Mars at least, being so far from the sun. Anyway, they seemed to our
travelers thing girl, who feared not finding a comfortable inn, and went forward as do two Quando
walkers encounter poor sales in the wilderness, and continue to the
next village.

But then he repented the Syrian and his partner, who walked a long
period without finding hostel.

After a little light descry, which was the land, which seemed very
mean thing to people who had come from Jupiter.

However, rezelando repent again, were determined to land on it. They went into the comet's tail,
and finding an aurora borealis by hand, went inside and brought ashore
to the north shore of the Baltic Sea, five of July 1737.

CHAPTER
IV.

That accounts of what happened on the globe of the earth.

Having
rested a bit, had lunch two mountains that are then cooked his servants
with much toilet