 He brought the back loose hair and was wearing Cute embroidered
slippers. He came to say goodbye to go to bed. He approached his mother and gave a kiss on the
cheek, making, meanwhile, malicious grin on his sister, Gonzalo could not see.

- Well, good night - he said extending a hand.

- Good night - said he looking ecstatic, with a sort of rapture that
go unnoticed by the girl.

I was going to retire, but a feeling of coquetry brought her back
from the door and ask Cecilia:

- Where do you put the shoe?

I had to come with flip flops for not finding ...

At the same time
showed his little foot.

- Then there is, in the drawer of the nightstand.

-
If you knew what a dream I have! - Moving further and said placing
a hand on his head his sister .-- Do you know how you remove this
- he said smiling.

Gonzalo examined it carefully. It was really a perfect creature.

The more closely is observed, the more they admired the unique parts that he was endowed. The
epidermis was smooth and shiny as satin, a faded pink color, the mouth moist and fresh red
lips discovered somewhat larger than the opening two rows of tiny teeth and equal; golden
hair, silky, abundant. His only blemish was the height. If her mother had no one would put a repair,
except, of course, her friends.

Noting that examined not just leave.

Spun round to it saw it everywhere, capricious positions adopted, affected, directed questions
irrelevant to his sister, laughing for no reason, covered it with kisses and rubbed without
consideration.

- Let, Ventura.

What you're frisky today! - Exclaimed that with his frank smile kindly,
trying to free herself.

- Go, go, to bed - said Dona Paula.

- I.

But
instead of going back to be embraced Cecilia, the tickled to take
every movement to say it in his ear:

- How are you enjoying, naughty!

Do not throw those big eyes, woman, you are going to stun .-- Farewell
farewell, gentlemen - concluded by saying aloud ...-- And leave something
for tomorrow, huh?

- What a fool! - Cecilia said, blushing.
