 And this thrill was communicated to the young priest and down
in the depths of his being. What she felt in her soul was no pain, no agitation, or distress,
was just cold, deadly cold gnawing bones. Never seen so alone and helpless. His eyes were
fixed on the ground stubbornly. She dared not lift and question the immensity as usual. He was sure
his response and feared.

When he reached the first houses in the suburbs of the worms had already closed the night. Al
pass one of the poorest and dirty got his attention the noise of blows and started screaming
inside. Stood still scared and tried to figure out what it was. Lighted by small windows could
be seen but not violently shaken some shadows. To his ears came, among the confused shouting, some
swearing that he shook. Suddenly violently opens the door and rush out a black mass, triggered
by a hands immediately closed again. Fr Gil acknowledged in that black mass to a cleric. He approached
and saw that it was diligent Fr Norbert, with his cloak and no hat.

- D. Norberto! What is that? What happens?

- Hello, darling.

Nothing, nothing ... is not - responded without stunning.

- If something
happens ... What have they done to you in that house?

- Nothing,
nothing ... Come to meet people.

- Are you going to go without a
hat?

- It's true ... I will ask ... Wait a little.

But at that moment out of a window of the house and flew off his hat, falling in the middle of
the road, that is, close to the clerics.

At the same time a rough voice said, accompanied by several interjections:

-
Take the tile thief.

If you come back here, you leave without the ears.

Fr Norberto was quick to pick it up and started walking.

- But you
explain to me ...-- said the coadjutor with him and making efforts
to keep step.

- I'll explain ... There below.

When they had gone to the worms, bran into the square and the streets of the Quadrant, D. Norberto
shortened a little step.

The toilet used the occasion to press their questions.

- Let's see,
what happened to you?

- Well, look at that house lives a girl, a
girl just fifteen years old, who her mother is a prostitute, delivering
it to the horse trader called Pepe the Manchego.

- And you've gone
there to see if her out of his clutches?

- I had already seen twice,
and seemed ill-disposed, but do not know who gave breath that man,
and now suddenly appeared and made a fuss.

- Jesus!

Are you hurt! - Gil said the father, seeing a few drops of blood running the cheeks of your
partner. At the same time he lifted his hat slightly and saw had
a hit in the forehead, where the blood started.

- But this is an
indignity!

Let's take part then the judge ...

- Do not think about that, dear ... This is worthless ... The part
of all would be lost, is would a scandal, and the girl, looking lost,
would these people with the shawl.

Staying Here, I have hope that with a little skill will achieve that devil take it off and
reduce the same mother ... This is nothing - he said wiping the blood with his handkerchief
.-- What I something else is hurt this shoulder ...

- But what has given you more hits?

- I was shaken a little sheepskin - answered innocently laughing .-- It is a matter of arnica
and rest ... I think that hurts me. Was too lounging ... For some time every day I invite
to calluses ... I getting too fat, do not you think?

Fr bye Gil at the door of his house and walked to walk towards lighter yours. It seemed as if he
had been relieved of the burden that was overwhelming.

He felt relaxed the deep melancholy that oppressed him all the way, and ran for his inexplicable
be sweet shake well.

After questioning the nature move, after consultation with decrepit
theology, the breath of Jesus had passed the order for his soul and
had cooled.

X

Two months later, P. Gil rested sitting in his chair Poor gutta-percha.

Work of those days, especially the latter, he had surrendered. It was a purely material where
his spirit, troubled by heinous and horrible thoughts, was pleased, looking soothing to the inner turmoil
that tormented him.