 Well,
then! If you had knowledge, child, you give thanks to God for having put a teacher who is like
a glory. To serve the endin too, for his hands are too thin and feet ready, eh, you?

Concha had been serious again, sitting down and doing an imperious gesture to the girl to approach.
Tocábale the turn of the grammar. Walked here even worse than ever, séase lack of memory or because
they fear the mob. Began thrashing: a ballenazo now and then another and another and another.
Manin, true to his educational, clapping mouth full, serious cutting, carefully, in geometric
pieces of bread before to lead in all seriousness to his lips. The faults were many, the blows
were many others. But at the end of the lesson, Concha considered more appropriate punishment
each violation, taking into account how badly she had done, it was appropriate to end with a general
bashing that comprise all. He lifted the chair and brandishing a formidable whale said:

- Now, for you to study better and you will awaken the senses, making!

Were so many tough blows, the creature, trying to escape that martyrdom, caught with his hands
clenched to the skirts of his executioner. Somehow, perhaps by having hung them unconsciously,
that held the tape broke and came to the ground, leaving only the seamstress shirt. He gave a cry of shame
and quickly lifted. But without stopping to tie the ribbon again, looking deep grudge against
the girl stay out of the hands holding them.

- Have you done, good, good, good! - Manin said, neatly carving bite
to would lead to the mouth.

The creature, paralyzed with terror, not crying. Not even the wounds ached. After few moments
he appeared again accompanied by Mrs. Concha. This came smiling sarcastically.

- Apparently, Miss now likes the girls to undress in front of men.

Will you be happy, lady, is not it? Manin've seen it everywhere Concha. Right, Manin, who has
been comfortably?

He took a few steps. The girl drew back frightened.

- Do not worry, miss. Calm yourself, lady. I do not come here to whip you. That the whipping
is very old. Who remembers and whipping!

Just come to invite you to take a turn in the cave ... Cave of the
mice ... you know.

There can entertain in a rat stripped of many that come to visit ... Come on, give me hand
for the lead with all ceremony.

The girl went to stand behind a chair, thence, pursued by Amalia and
Concha, ran around the table and finally took refuge behind the butler.

-
Manin!

Manin, by God, hide me!

But he grabbed her arm and handed it to the lady. Each one by one they took the hand and dragged
her, despite his piercing cries.

- A cave no! The cave is not! Godmother, sorry!

Kill me first. It seems I have a lot of fear! The cave is not that I eat the mice!

The servants went out into the hallway and witnessed the scene silent
and serious.

The cries of the girl went missing in the dark and winding staircase leading to the basement.

Amalia
opened the door of the terrible cave and pushed her daughter into the interior. Closed fury, but she
ran towards the exit door and took her hand.

They heard a cry heartbreaking. The Valencia opened the door again, gave a strong boost to the creature
she fell to the floor and locked it.

The cave was damp and black dungeon where only penetrated a few faint rays of light a porthole
open on top. He served in the past to wine cellar. Now there was no there than empty bottles.

The little girl was alone stood up, looked around mad with terror, tried to scream and Her voice
knotted in the throat, and finally, extending his hand, attack of a strong earthquake, fell
faint.

After half an hour the groom, who had witnessed the closure, moved
by compassion, He approached the door and looked through the keyhole.

Could see nothing. He called very softly.

- Josephine.

The girl did not respond. He knocked louder. The same silence. Startled, she screamed and hit
the door with all his might not get answered. Then he hastened to give up part of what was,
at the risk of losing their jobs. Amalia Concha sent the key to see what was happening. Between
her and Paula went to the creature senseless, cold and rigid, with the characters of death printed
on the face. Fearful of the complications that This would occur, the Grandee's wife rushed
to get her into bed. Took little small to herself, but immediately declared a high fever. Llamosa
doctor. Found her badly. To explain the wound of the hand and the cardinals presented, Amalia, fertile
in lies, invented a story that the doctor believed, or pretended to believe.

He was between life and death a few days. Amalia was with eye during disease. No loss hurt the
creature on which he had poured the bitter gall your heart, but he waved the idea of ??losing
at once his vengeance. Just the third days of being in bed Josephine, was reported last night that
Fernanda had left in the post-chaise to Madrid, and Luis only take four or five days to meet
with it. Experienced violent shaking. A seething wave of bile filled his chest. That night had
a fever too. He escaped! There was no possible retaliation for the
traitor.

Go to Madrid, marry, maybe there would receive the news of the death of his daughter cry a little,
after the caresses of his beloved wife would forget it. Love those so long, so alive, there
would be more than a man walking his happiness in Europe, and Lancia a poor old woman serving sad
scoffing to the corridors of Altavilla. Their flesh flaccid trembled. Vengeful instincts of their
race shouted angry, overwhelming. No, could not be! Before throwing
his daughter dead at the foot, before stick a dagger in the heart.

He thought, singular and terrible to tell her husband everything.

Knew what it give of themselves, but for now would cause a scandal. D. Peter was violent, had
great power and prestige.

Who knows the havoc that could cause the pump? True, he was paralyzed and could not take revenge
into their own hands, but what would happen to not be so arrogant
man and punctilious means of returning the wrong which he felt?

She would fall among the ruins, but fall with the traitor like if somehow paid their perfidy.

After
much struggle with this thought, not risking to confess by word or
write under his signature, sent to D. Pedro, disguising the letter,
an anonymous letter.

"The girl you've collected six years ago is the daughter of his wife
and a gentleman who frequents home and who you call your friend.

I do not tell you the name. Search and soon you to find the traitor
.-- A loyal friend.

"Echola the mail and waited anxiously for the effect it produced.

D. Peter was in front of it and read it.

His face fell sharply and pulled cadaverous pallor.

- Who do you write? - Naturally she asked.

The Grandee recovered immediately and folding up the letter and keeping
it, he retaliated by efforts to ensure his voice trembling:

- Nothing,
a complaint of mine who recommended that you have been laid off ...
That governor!

No has no memory or formality.

And restless and looking forward to the events he retired to his cabinet.

Afternoon Jacoba mysteriously came and gave him a ticket from the count.

- What you want from me man? - Surprised and asked scornfully.

- I do not know, ma'am. Wrote the letter in my house and there wait response.

Count the ticket said:

"Amalia, I know our daughter is in danger of death. For heaven's sake in this world for the salvation
of your soul, grant me an interview. I need to talk. If this afternoon can not be, come tomorrow
morning Jacoba's house .-- Yours, Luis. "

- Yours!

Yours! - Murmured with a bitter smile .-- You have been mine, yes,
but has changed hands.

It will cost you dearly.

- I have answer, miss?

He was thoughtful
for a moment, took a few laps around the room, completely abstracted;
approached the balcony and looked out the windows.

At last he said, turning to means and with great Drying:

- Well,
tomorrow when mass.

- I asked with great interest by the child.

-
Tell that remains the same.

Funky's intrusive, and she remained a long time looking at the street,
through the glass, without seeing it.

From seven o'clock the next day Luis was waiting in the shack Jacoba. There was no more than a
kitchen on the ground floor and a living room with bedroom above, so low Count ceiling with
a hat that played in the ceiling. In this parlor was furious rides with his hands in his pockets,
looking carefully at every moment by the curtains of only window I had. Until nine did not
attend the queen. The blanket was thrown reach through the eyes, the prayer book in hand and
a rosary hanging from the wrist with a firm step and calm, as if it came to giving some orders
to his former protege. When she heard his voice in the kitchen, turned over his heart, he trembled
like a leaf and was deleted completely the words he had prepared.

- How are you, Count? "- She said to come very naturally, holding out a hand.

- Well, how about you?

He lifted his head as if surprised to be heard and answered staring tutear:

- Perfectly.

- And the girl?

- Something better.

Despejose hearing this the face of the gentleman. Shone a ray of joy in his eyes and said holding
hands with his former mistress and pulling her to the sofa poor straw was there.

- Sit, Amalia. Although a presumption on my part, I beg you let me go tuteándote when we're alone
... I do not forget, I can not ever forget how many hours of happiness I owe, how much happiness
you have poured into my life dull and dreary. You have revealed me as sweet and intimate that
existed in my heart without me even suspected.

For you have been the first stirrings of my soul. Only you have penetrated so far into it, you've
probed and know their blues, their weaknesses, and tenderness. If I separate from you, if I say
goodbye our love, do not think it's because I no longer required: only obey a law of nature that
drives us all to create a family. I have no more than the world My mother, a poor old woman
soon leave me alone ... You should not want to seem wrong make a home and have an heir of
my name and my title ... Moreover, the cry of conscience chasing me ...

The Count, delighted with the improvement of the girl, showed more
expansive and talkative than usual could not hide the happiness that
was upon him, thinking that everything was arranged as their wishes.

Josefina happy next to his mother beside him happy Fernanda; Amalia
taxed resigned and sweet and always love the purest daily.

It looked at him with mock curiosity. When he finished, he smiled benevolently:

- Especially since the night you saw that lovely Fernanda with low-cut dress, that cry must have
become unbearable.

The Count smiled, embarrassed.

- Do not believe it, Amalia, I've always felt remorseful. It is clear
that to be an old one see things more clearly.

My beard and bleaching in several places, as you are watching.

What a young person can apologize as madness, as the hopelessness
of the fire expansion runs through the veins, called on an old crime.

Love, at the age where I am, should not cover with their wings in
the light of reason, and if the lid deserve the label of a fool.

My serna bitter resolution may both. To me it is much, I can hardly let go of a passion that time
force has almost become a habit.

There is also, by Unfortunately, a bond between the two completely unbreakable. Fate has given
birth the mire of our sin a beautiful flower, a naive lily. Murdering his depart Front: as
it has been generated by an illegitimate love, not spotted with our behavior reprehensible.
Let us make ourselves worthy of it live as Christians.

- It is well that. I just feel that this course of Christian doctrine has been so late and coincided
with the arrival in this population of your old girlfriend. Because it looks and if you had
forgotten all about the catechism, and she came to refresh your memory.

But in sum, I must not get involved because it does not concern me.
The result is that you marry.

Do well. The only bad man, and when is a worthy companion, as you
have found, no to miss the occasion.

Fernanda is a good girl, I'm sure that will make you happy. You will have many children and,
after a long and happy life, you will go to heaven.

Luis watched; that resignation and could not help but feel some concern.

- And you will be happy too? - Asked timidly.

- Me?

... What matters to me to be happy or unhappy! - Said, shrugging his shoulders with a gesture
dismissive.

- Do not say that, Amalia!

Happiness is not madness to give us seven years.

There was a bitter aftertaste that I perceived it long ago, and you
would soon perceive.

A pure and decent life, peace of conscience, the estimation of honest people give you more happy
that the guilty passion ... You also have what I have no ... have
by your side an angel, a sweet and fragrant lily to embalm your existence.

-
Ah, yes, Josefina!

... Indeed, it will provide to me the only good times we pass on.

He said a strange voice inflection, so sharp and shrill, that Louis
felt a chill.

- What do you mean?

- What I have said, which fortunately
I have a Josephine to recover.

- Is that what you say in a way so
weird!

The Valencian chuckled unique out beyond the bottom of the
throat and sounded so sinister. Luis stared at her, getting restless.

-
But what a fool you, Luis! But what retontísimo! Selfishness has such
cataracts your eyes do not see or what you have ahead. If you had
twenty years, that innocence may might inspire pity your age does
not inspire me more than laughter and contempt. Think that four palabrillas
insolent about morals and conscience would be enough to force me to
accept satisfied with the humiliation that I impose, I suppose, if
you do not know who you ought to know, I agree that I throw like a
dirty rag, which I love drag as a captive at the foot of Fernanda
to serve you up a cushion when your bed is the height of stupidity
and bravado. Why not also ask me to be your bridesmaid?

The count
watched with eyes wide, expressing anxiety and fear.

- So what I
have said about the torture you happen to our daughter is that true?

-
And so accurate! And still not know completely ... Look, I referírtelos
everyone to not mislead you ...

And with word brief, incisive, with
a cruel satisfaction that is reflected by the voice, he front of the
big picture of the miseries and horrible pain that the unfortunate
creature had suffered in recent months. That painting was infinitely
more terrifying than Mary had exhibited the ironer. The count, pale,
haggard, without the slightest movement, it seemed the statue of despair.
After a while she covered her face with her hands and so listened
to the end.

- Oh, how vile! Oh, how vile! - Murmured softly.

- Yes,
very infamous, but still hope to be more. Have you heard all these
outrages? Well, are nothing compared with that will.

- Not gonna
make such a wicked child, - uttered Luis rising and rushing to her
.-- Before you drown in my hands.

The Valencian escaped out the door.

-
If you take a step further, cry!

- Oh, infamous, infamous! - She
cried a deep voice Count .-- And God agrees on land these monsters!

He
stepped back and fell back on the couch. He rested his elbows on his
knees and put his head in his hands. After a long silence up, saying:

-
Well, what do you demand of me