 

They are not hateful or scratch even in exaggerated comic cartoon characters in action involved.
All make you laugh, even more children of the observation of a fantasy humorous and joyful.
Their talks would say they were taken by the phonograph, the phonograph if had the rare ability
to throw heavy and intrusive and retain only sobriety enviable what does not tire, which portrays the
characters and what drives and contributes to final outcome.

The action has nothing complicated, however, first aroused curiosity, interested then and finally deeply
moved.

Among the festive and sad, between comedy and tragedy in this novel, as in reality, almost no
intermediate, but the absolute lack of involvement in the narrator worth more than contrived detours
to avoid the transition is abrupt, and that events unfortunate and
the consequent change of tone produced dissonance.

The noble and excellent gentleman D. Alvaro, a widower with two twin daughters are named those
of the patron saints of Seville, Justa and Rufina, comes to rubble to spend the season summer
and to replace his very ill health. Boyfriend is just a cousin Gongora named Paco, who is deeply
in love with her. Paco, no moral sense and Lightweight sick character, is committed to his
cousin, not realizing that in fact not love her. And although neither love with true love Rufina
Justa's sister, talk and flirts with her, and insensibly, as if they were slipping and falling
down a slope Gently traitor, Paco is unfaithful to Justa y Rufina
becomes cruel and victorious rival of his sister.

With no little talent as a novelist and using several funny episodes
that everyone attend action, Paco and Rufina warn later the grave
offense that make Fair and D. Alvaro by the bond of love that, taunting
and mocking secretly have become entangled.

New lovers fear being caught and no courage to confess his duplicity
and face the wrath of the father and sister so severely offended.

Then take the worst and most vicious of the resolutions. Both run away together.

D. Alvaro, who idolized her two daughters and was very sick, she can not blow so rude. Falls
exhausted, aggravated their woes and death ensues.

The beautiful character of the local priest shines in the poignant
scene in the holy words, eloquent without art by religious faith and
charity that inspired that persuade the dying man to forgive the guilty,
and how he comforted and illuminated with heavenly hopes the last
moments of mortal life.

The epilogue of the novel is also very moral, very religious and very
tender.

Fair, transformed a sister of Charity receives Rufina has been rushing to the depths of depravity
and vice, cares for her and forgives her generous and holy.

Critics of Seville, to give Mr. Muñoz y Pabón founded praise, you are qualified to disciple and
imitator or follower of Fernan Caballero. I will not deny me the works of such famous She may have
served to encourage the talent of the elder novelist, but are such differences between written by
him and written by the ingenious daughter Bohl de Faber, can not assert or assume that imitation
both authors belong to the same school. Well seen and observed Fernan Caballero uses, customs and
passions of the people Andalusia, but I felt everything and then it represented the stranger
through a prism. Their culture, rather than books castizos was modern books, English, French
and German and this was reflected in the characters children of his observation and inventiveness.
Them and in sets and events that are, I think I notice a hit and exotic sentimentality that it is
unusual among us: it is less Andalusian Dutchman.

In contrast, in the novel Mr. Muñoz Pabón everything is Andalusian and nothing really hybrid: the
substance and form, passions and language that expresses them.

As Mr. Muñoz Pabón is still young, we are pleased to expect no less seasoned wit and abundant
fruit.

Like many authors, in all countries and especially in Spain, Mr. Muñoz Pabón began writing verse
before writing in prose. From his works in verse know only I was a little book published in
1899, which in my mind reading produces very mixed effects. On the one hand confirms in me the
idea that Mr. Muñoz y Pabón has uncommon skills writer and poet, while on the other hand,
I presume that moved the author for his great religious piety, perhaps on Candida, unthinking,
taken for a matter of their songs or rather tell their stories in romances, and it is a romance,
something in my opinion extremely delicate and ocasionadísimo to infractions. The Ballad is entitled
The Child Nazareth. I do not think anything in this book is taken or copied from the apocryphal
Gospel of Jesus' childhood. Everything is clearly invented by the author. But to what point
is well compose something like a novel with mock events, no matter how credible they are, life
earthly incarnate Word, whose glory appeared to men, as the glory of her Son the Father, full of grace
and truth? Is it not a matter cut too high entering in vulgar details and realistic? The Virgin
Mary sewing, washing and taking care of the house; San Jose working in his workshop and the
Baby Jesus by going to the source water pitcher shoulder or other
necessities like that, or playing games with young children of age,
are quite difficult to be represented with the appropriate decorum.

Whom such This stuff is exposed, much to his chagrin, to tarnish the propriety and offend the
majesty of divine things.

Heterodox writers reckless or wicked or just anything, so dangerous abused genre of entertaining
literature in recent years. Which is more than a novel, yet so do not call, Life of Jesus by
Ernest Renan? The Lady Mary Corelli, has not recently written a novel whose amorous entanglements
and fit and fit, so to speak, in the passion and death of our divine Redeemer? Even in the
epics that are based on such supernatural events exposed the poet, eminent, to go into details that
provoke derision of unbelievers and that hurt the veneration of believers. What can not be said
of Jerome life and even of Klopstock? Also a compatriot of Mr. Muñoz Pabón, Seville Diego
de Ojeda, wrote a beautiful poem about the death and passion of Christ, but nothing Hojeda
invents and adds to the essentials of the events that the Gospels relate. Activity your imagination
is used only in the allegorical, symbolic and otherworldly. Very different is the manner in
which the ballads of the Child of Nazareth is made, which are attributed
to Jesus All very laudable actions, but have no historical basis and
that dwarf the concept of the Messiah rather than enhance it.

Age of greater faith in the age in which we live, there was little danger of mixing innocent fictions
with the truth more or less discreet. On the day it is and we should not fuel to keep writing
novels is that Christ, St. Joseph and the Virgin and the apostles are actors, if not the choir or
comparsa relatively insignificant action for world history, as it
occurs in otherwise well written and very famous novel titled "Quo
Vadis?

When the actor feigned cases is the same Christ, Son of God, the danger is over clear. What
attributed to Salvador actions not found in any authentic document? How can any man imagine not
accurately represent the development and grow a soul and a human body, closely united with God
himself in person the Word? It is clear that Mr. Muñoz y Pabón invents nothing unseemly or offensive,
such as for instance, that someone has attempted recently in Germany prove that Christ was studying
in a college or Institute can not remember which city of India, but still despite what the Catholic
innocent and invented by Mr. Pabón, it is best not taken for granted, but by mere symbol, allegory
and foreshadowing of real events that occurred later. I agree that this can excuse the facts stated
in the ballads of the Child of Nazareth where the conversation with the Samaritan woman, the raising
of Lazarus, the forgiveness of the adulterous woman and other passages of the Holy Gospels are
read and written in narrative prefigured child and as personal reading for children. So can
apologize and perhaps applauded by the naive some details of customs that I do not know if
they are outdated or not are, in my limited knowledge in archeology. For example, if the kids
at the time of Christ, resident in Nazareth, and playing hide and seek, to jump rope and grub
like children now. Candor is that you can do funny. I find it funny, in the poem of San Jose
del Padre Fray Jose de Valdivielso, that suspicion of the saint Carpenter was just a hobby, for
being such an illustrious lineage nobleman was not possible who won a living working with his
hands, instead of living of their income,

    
    Then he must have had actual juros, What descendant of such gentlemen.

What will not prevent exposure to acknowledge the remarkable poetic talent of Mr. Muñoz and
Pabon, the cool freshness, light and color that puts into his paintings
and enthusiastic passion that animates them.

Perhaps the disadvantages I see in the genre are not for children
or for readers of great faith and little malice.

II

Much goes on whether or not administrative centralization and grades of autonomy that they
should enjoy the province and the municipality. Tough questions are those that I leave happy for the
resolution of the bustling hive of politicians and state orate both in Spain and agitated. What
worries me is the centralization that comes individual initiative and the effort we all usually
have to live in the capital and to leave the camps, villages and even cities that do not consider
of great importance.

If all that is flowery, wealthy and elegant, comes to Madrid to show off and if they go too
to Madrid in search of fame and fortune, subjects who are wealthy or who are believed to know
and wit, big fear is that the land area of ??our country is as neglected and abandoned that
glitters, promotes class welfare and contributes to the culture.

In other European countries, the barons and large landowners, attended by more time in cut
into their houses and castles. Here just want anyone to leave the capital, except in the rigor
of the summer, and then, usually not to visit rural lands and direct or attend agricultural
tasks, but to go to France or other foreign countries to pass over there spend their time
and finances.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, you may do suspect that refocuses in Madrid as bright and assets
of our nation, it is certain that persist large pockets of light and activity in our provinces,
and therefore we can not but rejoice that we as supporters of this
innocent and peaceful regionalism.

The former shows the solemn pomp of some religious festivals, exhibitions industry to modern usage,
the resurrected games floral Catholic congresses, conferences and even some other ultra-political,
by dint to deny that they are political, as well as passionate and eloquent sermons people seeking
to regenerate, all this is useful to preserve and revive the life in the extreme preventing
flow back to the center and leave the rest inert.

Only one problem do not cut: that such sermons regenerative hull lift
people rebellious and fond of living hand to mouth, and produce disturbances,
riots and even civil wars.

But if this danger is avoided or plot, I understand that everything is well, but always preferred
the preaching regenerating floral games, the processions and fairs.

Anyway good news is that we encourage as far as our power, and celebrate,
if deserve it, those who cultivate letters, staying in provinces without
coming to Madrid In order to become famous.

Sevilla, since ancient times, is a center of civilization castiza, whose light, that is not
extinguished or blight. His school of poets and painters school, and bright flowering in the sixteenth
century, and renovated in the last third of the eighteenth century, they sparkle still, Despite the
general decline of our nation.

Disto much I suck in these articles, which can not be extended, to submit a picture motion full
intellectual, literary and artistic city of Seville and other cities Andalusia. I limit myself,
and I must limit myself to try some very recent works, test, I feel that this movement is not
sterile, but in that same land produces seasoned fruits, regardless of Andalusian farmers who
come to Madrid, as the Alvarez Quintero and not a few others, to produce and exhibit.

Time has it's brilliant evidence of intellectual activity in the province of Cordoba poetic
production of Manuel Reina, born in Puente Genil, where ordinarily resides, but books printed
in Madrid. Elegant and inspired poet, has published Errant and cheerful Stickers and watercolors,
restless life, The song of the stars, Pagan Poems, in 1896, and recently, in 1899, The Garden
of the poets, the last book of his that we know. Celebrate in this book portrays traits, often
happy, several eminent poets of all ages and nations: from Homer, Anacreon, Aeschylus and
Catullus to Goethe among strangers, and from Jorge Manrique to Espronceda among themselves.
While in Spain, do not know why, estimates are not very popular and
free verse heroic verse, I sometimes prefer to subject to the artifice
of rhyme, when the lack of it is offset by the excellence and simplicity
of diction and musical cadence meter.

The rhyme also have serious drawbacks when to overcome their difficulty, are used above epithets
and participles in "bear, bear, body and face, and ada ado." Either way, this book The garden
of the poets I find better and more spirited, inspired and concise that rhymed, what is in hendecasyllables
free.

But Manuel Reina, where you consent to the coldness and indifference to the poetry of our Today's
public is already well known, esteemed and celebrated, I consider unhelpful and exposed to tilde
I presumptuous to call attention to his writings with careful consideration
and reasoned criticism.

Suffice to state here in all sincerity, that Manuel Reina is already, in my see, one of our
finest poets, and as is still young, he should expect much higher successes, if polished, lime
and fits and adjusts forward more firmly within the appropriate and
clear way, the beautiful ideas and the deep feeling that with such
force and abundance pouring your spirit.

Let us try things here that although a lot less important, say that the ingenuity and grace,
which we call Andalusian charm, has not dissolved yet, but persists, despite so many sorrows,
losses and vexations.

A Season with the salt handfuls Mr. Don Francisco Toro Luna, something like a comedy, which title
is Happy Day!, which was performed in Cordoba in Circus Theatre and Great Captain July this year. Only
two characters appear in the action, which is very simple. All credit is in the dialogue, natural,
funny and relaxed. First there is the monologue a girl and then the conversation of this with a
cousin who eventually declared fervently love with her. I do not want to have here the progress
of the action and sneaky trick that merges with the ingenuity and by means of which reaches
the most fortunate and happy outcome. If I relate the plot would destroy all the charm of the work do
not have much extension because in the work, words do not rejoice, be it the character of the protagonist
as genuine, friendly and rejoiced, the Córdoba my countrywomen can not ask for more, despite spicy
than some very slight stinging satire.

In sum, I believe that happy day! would applauded in Madrid, if Lara is give, but as I am not
infallible, as the public is capricious, and by reading may be noticed that the representation
beauties fade or pass unnoticed, I refrain from predicting in order not to discredit a critic.
I'll just say Happy Day! I like it as much as any of the most praised and short sayings Alfredo
de Muset: as a whim, for example.
About Happy Day!, Like the novel Justa and Rufina, I want to touch
a point both works the same: the adulteration of spelling to play
graphically how to pronounce the Andalusians. In my view this does
not print the essential character dialogue and makes it fun and funny,
and tend, instead, to create a new dialect, or rather barbaric and
report language. Cervantes makes people talk meanest unmarked Andalucía
the cycle of the pronunciation in writing