 Accounts were, as if the ship was theirs. While it was being repaired he could
tolerate the conduct of Captain.

- The British paid - said Toni -.

But now will not pay, the ship is without a win, and we spend every day ... What do we spend?

Calculated
and cook it thoroughly support the cost of steam, frightened to reach the total. A day of immobility
represented more than the amount earned by two men in a month.

-
This can not go - Toni protested.

His outrage led him to the ground several times, looking for the captain. Afraid to talk, considering
a lack of discipline to interfere in the direction of the ship, and
invented the most absurd Ferragut pretexts to address.

He looked harbor antipathy goalkeeper, because he always replied that
the captain had out.

This individual must have air pimp great fault in the stillness of steam: it warned the heart.

Not
to go to blows with him and why not wait to see him covertly riese
hours in the hall, they bet on the street, watching the entrances
and exits da Ferragut.

The three times I got to talk to him got the same success.

The captain held much see him as if he were a ghost of the past that could communicate the joy
of exuberant happiness.

Listened to his mate, glad that everything went well on the ship. And when Toni, faltering
voice, he dared ask the date of departure, Odysseus hid his hesitation in a tone of caution.
I was waiting for a precious cargo.

The more we wait, more money going to win ... But his words were not convincing to Toni. Protests
remembered their captain, a fortnight before, the lack of good charge in Naples and his desire
to leave without delay.

Returning on board, the second sought to Caragol, commenting both
the changes in their boss.

Toni had been done another man, with beard, wearing the best your
luggage, betraying in arranging his person a thorough dedication,
a strong will please.

The rough pilot was believed to perceive the true talk like women's
perfume Visitors to the blonde.

This news was most unlikely to Caragol.

- Captain Ferragut scented!

... Captain smelling of ... bug!

And raised arms, while their short-sighted eyes looking cane bottles and flasks oil to make them
witnesses of his indignation.

The two men were consistent in assessing the cause of his sadness. She was to blame all, she
who was delighted to have the ship in this port, who knows how long, with irresistible power of
a witch.

- Ah, the females! ... The devil is like a lap dog behind her skirts ... Are rot of our lives.

And the angry chef chastity against women still throwing insults and
curses equal to those of the early Fathers of the Church.

One morning the crew who cleaned the deck posing a cry from the bow
to the stern.

"Captain!" They saw a boat approaching, and the word spread and cameras corridors, giving
new force to the arms, encouraging the sleepy faces. The second came Caragol to the deck and
put his head out the kitchen door.

Since its first look at Tony sensed that something important was about
to happen.

The captain had a brave and cheerful air.

At the same time saw the kindness of her smile exaggerated desire
to seduce, to impose something gently considered of doubtful acceptance.

-
I'll be happy - Ferragut said to shake his hand -.

Soon we shall sail.

They entered the room. Ulysses watched his ship with some surprise, as if he were returned to
him after a long journey. I was looking different, arose before his eyes details had never
attracted attention.

Recapitulated in a synthesis that was like a lightning stroke, all that had occurred in less than two
weeks.

Could see for the first time of great change in her life since Freya
had come to pick you up steam.

Was seen in his hotel room in front of her, who was dressed as a man and smoked looking the
Gulf.

- I am German y. ..

Suddenly he would explain his mysterious life, even less comprehensible
detail.

She was German and served his country. Modern war nations mass rises, it is not, as in other centuries,
a small minority clash of professionals whose job is the fight.

All strong men went to the battlefields, the others working in the
industrial centers of war turned into workshops.

And this included general activity also to women who engaged in the
service of parental work in factories and hospitals or intelligence
beyond his borders.

Ferragut, surprised by this revelation brutal, fell silent, and finally
dared to ask their thinking.

- According to this, are you a spy?

...

She noted with disdain the word. It was an outdated term that had lost its original significance.
Spies were in other times, when only professional soldiers took part in the war, mingled voluntarily
or by interest in the operations, surprising the enemy's preparations.

Now with the mass mobilization of peoples, had gone the old spy craft,
despicable villain, who face death for money.

There were only patriots tiding of work for their country, some with weapons hand, other craft
using or exploiting the qualities of their sex.

Ulysses was taken aback by this theory.

- So, Dr. ...?-- again asked,
guessing what could be the awesome lady.

Freya said with an expression of enthusiasm and respect.

His friend was a distinguished patriot, wise to put all his faculties to the service of their
country. She adored her. It was his protector: had saved the most difficult moments of its existence.

-
And the Count? - Kept asking Ferragut.

Here the woman made a gesture given reservation.

- It is also a great patriot ... But enough about him.

There was respect and fear his words. It was evident desire not to deal with this arrogant character.

A
long silence. Freya, as if fearing the effects of meditation master, the cut suddenly with his
impassioned speech.

The doctor and she had come to Rome to take refuge in Naples, fleeing
from the intrigues and gossip of the capital.

The Italians were fighting among themselves: some were in favor of war, others of neutrality. No
one wanted to help Germany, its former ally.

- Both have protected them! - He said -.

Raza, false and ungrateful ...

His gestures and his words evoked the memory of Ulysses in the image
of Dr. scolding to the Italian land from a car window on the first
day he spoke.

Were the two women in Naples, entertaining his futile hopes to travel to the populations nearby,
where they found the ocean.

- I kept a good memory of you - continued Freya -. I guessed from the first moment our friendship
was going to end up as over ...

He read the look of him a question.

- I know what you're going to say. Strange that I made you wait so long, that made thee suffer with
my whims ... Is that I loved you while I wanted to get away. Posed, an attraction and a hindrance.
I feared in my affairs complicate ... Also, I need to be free to
devote to fulfilling my mission.

There was another long pause. Freya's eyes were fixed on her lover with a tenacity searching. I
wanted to probe his mind, realizing the maturity of its preparation, before risking the decisive
blow. His examination was satisfactory.

- And now that I know - he said with painful slowness - leave! ... You can not love me; I am
a spy as you say, a wretch ... I know you can not still love me after from what I have revealed.
Get away on your ship, like the heroes of legend, and we will not
more.

All we will have been a beautiful dream ... Leave me alone.

I do not know what fate will be the mine, but I care about is your peace of mind.

His eyes filled with tears. He fell face down on the couch, hiding his face between the arms
while crying hiccups shook the lovely curves of her back.

Odysseus, moved by the pain, while he admired the perspicacity of Freya, who guessed all your
ideas. The voice of good counsel, that voice spoke rope in the middle of Brain saw the captain
at a difficult time, had begun to scream shocked to the first revelations of this woman:

"Ferragut, run! ... You're in a bad way. You do not want the deal with such people. What hast thou
to do with the country of this adventure? Why face a hazard cause anything to you? ... What you wanted
it you have it. Be selfish, my son! "

But the voice of his other mental hemisphere, and that swaggering voice that drove him to mad loaded
on ships destined for shipwreck, to defy the dangers for the sake
of test their effect, also gave advice.

Villain was a woman to leave. Only afraid he could do ... Both seemed
to love the German!

...

And with its lush southern hugged her and lifted her up, away from his forehead loops of the
hair, which had been destroyed, caressing her like a sick child, drinking their tears with endless
kisses.

No, do not leave! ... What is more, he was ready to defend it against all enemies. The I did
not know who these enemies, but if I needed a man, there he was to
him ...

In vain the voice rope insulted him while formulating such
offers.

Undertook blindly maybe this adventure was going to be the most terrible in its history ...
But to allay her scruples, another voice shouted: "You are a gentleman and a gentleman does
not leave for fear of a woman hours after receiving this from your body. Go ahead, captain! "

A selfish coward excuse emerged in his thinking, made in one piece. He was Spanish, was a neutral,
that had nothing to do with the war in Central Europe.

His second had spoken at times of solidarity of race, Latino people, the need to end to militarism,
to make war so that there are no more wars ... Simplicity Reader
gullible!

He was not English or French.

Nor was German, but the woman he loved was, and was not going to abandon it for some antagonism
that seemed uninteresting.

Freya should not mourn.

Her lover said repeatedly that he wanted to live always at his side,
was not going to abandon it for what he had said, and even gave his
word of honor as evidence that would help in everything we consider
it possible and worth it.

So its fate decided hastily Captain Ulysses Ferragut.

When her lover took him back to the house of Dr., was received by it as well that if it belonged
to his family.

And had no reason to hide their nationality. Freya called simply Frau Doktor. And she, with
teacher verbal enthusiasm, finished catechize the ocean, explaining the law and reason of
his country to go to war with half Europe.

Poor Germany had to defend himself. The Kaiser was a man of peace, notwithstanding for many
years had methodically prepared a military force capable of crushing to humanity. All had caused,
all had been first to attack him. The arrogant French, long before declaring war, sent clouds
of airplanes on German cities bombed.

Ferragut blinked in surprise. This was new to him.

Must have occurred while at sea. Verbose authoritarianism of Dr no doubt allowed ... Besides,
that lady should know things better than those living at sea.

Then had come the English challenge. As a traitor of melodrama, the British government preparing for war
came from a long time, not wanting to appear until the last minute. And Germany, lover of peace,
had to defend against this enemy, the worst.

- God punish England! "- Said the doctor, looking at Ulysses.

And that, not disappoint, his hopes, he shook his head gallantly ...
For he could punishing God.

But to express felt so agitated by a new duality. The English had been good comrades pleasantly
recalled his voyages as an officer on board ship British. While some irritation caused him increasing
his power, invisible to men inland, monstrous for those living at
sea.

They were found as dominant in all the oceans or solidly installed
in all strategic costs and commercial.

The doctor, as if divining the need to stoke their hatred against
the great enemy, appealed to historical memories: Gibraltar won by
the English, the piracy of Drake, the American galleons with methodical
regularity captured by the British fleet, the landings off the coast
of Spain, which had disrupted the lives of the peninsula in other
centuries.

England at the beginning of his greatness in the reign of Elizabeth,
was the size of Belgium.

If you had done large, was at the expense of the Spanish and Dutch, to dominate the world.

And so vehemently spoke the English doctor gives the evils of England
against Spain the ocean impressionable spontaneously ended by saying:

-
May God punish!

...

But here the navigator reappeared Mediterranean, Ulises complicated and contradictory. It was
agreed Suddenly the repairs of his ship, which should be compensated for England.

"May God punish ... but wait a bit! "he muttered in his thinking.

The imposing teacher was exasperated when talking about the land they lived.

- Mandolinists! Bandits! - Shouted, as always, against the Italians.

How much were they owed to Germany.

Emperor William had been a father to them. All everyone knew this! ... And yet, at the outbreak
of war, refused to follow their old friends. Now German diplomacy should work, not to keep his side,
but for were to prevent adversaries. Every day he received news from Rome. There was hope
to keep Italy neutral. But who could trust the word of such people? ... And he repeated his angry
insults.

The ocean immediately got used to this house, as if it were theirs. The few times Freya was separated
from him, was going to look in the hall of the imposing lady, who
took Ulises air with a gentle mother.

In several of his visits he met the Count. The taciturn character handed him a hand instinctively
keep a certain distance. Ulysses knew now his true nationality and he did not know this, but the
two continued the fiction of Count Kaledine, diplomat Russian. Like everything about this
man commanded respect in the house of Dr., Ferragut, attentive his selfish love, not allow
any investigation, links to instructions the two women.

He had never so happy as in those days. Experienced the monstrous pleasure which is sitting at table
in a well-heated room and go to sea crystals stormy, with a ship
against the waves. 

Newsboys hawked the terrible battles in central
Europe were burning cities under bombardment, thousands died every
twenty four hours and thousands of human beings ... And he did not
read anything, do not want to know. Continued its existence as if
the world lived happiness in a paradise, sometimes waiting for Freya,
evoking his memory esplendideces your body, refinements and new sensations
that he tried his passion, others embraced to reality, with a rapture
that erased and deleted everything that was not two of them.

Something,
however, he suddenly pulled his selfishness love, something that overshadowed
his gesture, started his forehead with a wrinkle of concern and made
him go on board.

When he sat in the great chamber of the vessel,
against his mate, his elbows on the table and began to suck on a fat
cigar he had just lit.

- We shall go very soon - repeated with obvious
concern -. You'll be glad, Toni, I think you'll be happy.

Toni was
unmoved. I expected something more. The captain, a journey, he always
said the destination port and the specialty of the load. So, realizing
that Ferragut would not add anything, ventured to ask:

- Is it where
we're going to Barcelona? ...

Ulysses hesitated, looking toward the
door as if fearing to be heard. Then he saw the bust to Toni.

It
was a journey without danger, but that it should be a mystery.

-
I'll tell it to you because you know all my stuff, because I feel
like my family.

The pilot did not seem excited about this show of
confidence. Impassive, while inside were beginning to awaken all the
concerns that had been agitated in the days above.

He kept talking
about the captain. Were times of war, and should use them. For both
not a novelty carrying shipments of military equipment. He had led
a time in Europe arms and ammunition for a revolution in South America.
Toni had told his adventures in the Gulf of California by sending
a small schooner that served as transport to the insurgents in the
northern provinces rose up against the government of Mexico.

But
the second, at the time she moved her head yes, him with questioning
eyes. What were they going to carry on this trip? ...

- Toni, it's
not artillery or rifles, nor of ammunition ... It is a short work
and well paid, we will lose little way in our return to Barcelona.

He
stopped in his confidence, feeling one last hesitation, and finally
said, lowering his voice:

- The Germans paid! ... Let us provide
essential oil to the submarines have in the Mediterranean.

Contrary
to expected Ferragut, his second did not make a gesture of surprise.
Impassive, as if this news was meaningless to him. Then he smiled
slightly, shaking his shoulders the same as if he had heard something
absurd ... Did the Germans had submarines the Mediterranean? Could
one of these machines sailors, small and fragile, making long crossing
from the North Sea to the Strait of Gibraltar?

Was aware of the great
evils which caused the submarine near England but in a small area
in the limited range that they were capable. The Mediterranean Fortunately
for merchant ships, was to shed its treacherous wiles.

Ferragut interrupted
him with a vehemence south. This man, extreme in their passions, expressed
as the doctor spoke as if his mouth.

- You're referring to the submarine,
Toni, to the small submarine that existed at the start war: steel
cigar fragile, plying evil to separate water and can be opened to
retail Shock ... But now there's more: there is the sub, which is
guarded like a submarine by a ship's hull, which may go blind in midwater
and at the same time can navigate on the surface better than a shortstop
... You do not know what they are capable German. They are a great
people, the world's first! ...

And with impulsive exaggeration, insisted
glorifying German and inventiveness, as if a share of this glory mechanical
and destructive