 Handed him a thick packet letters
and newspapers. In the letter envelopes and stamps was guessing who wrote to him: a single letter
from his wife, consisting of a single sheet, judging by its flexible thin, three very bulky Toni,
kind of diaries, in which was telling to shop, their crops, hopes to see come to the captain, all
mixed with plenty of news about war and unrest of the people. In addition, several sheets of banking
institutions Barcelona Ferragut realizing the use of their capital.

Standing on the steps of the palace, finished reviewing your correspondence on the outer face. Was
similar to that found at the back of his travels.

I was going to keep in their pockets and move on, when an envelope
caught his eye voluminous unknown letter, certificate in Paris ...

Curiosity
made him open it immediately, and saw in his hands a sheaf of true
leaves loose, a long story that went beyond the limits of a letter.

He looked at the printed letterhead and then the signing. Which he wrote was a lawyer in Paris,
and sensed by the paper Ferragut luxurious and address of her home that was to be a famous maître.
So remember to have found ever his name in the papers.

He began reading the first page there, longing to know why because
he wrote the serious character.

But scarcely had spent the eyes for a few lines, stopped reading. He stumbled over the name
of Freya Talberg. This was his defense attorney to the Council war.

Hastened to save the letter, dominating his impatience.

Felt the need for quiet absolute seclusion and loneliness experienced by a passionate reader
to acquire a new book. This bunch of papers contained for him the most interesting stories.

Speaking to his ship, it seemed the longer route than usual. He longed to be locked in his cabin,
far from curiosity, as if to make a mysterious operation.

Freya did not exist. Had disappeared from the world in a shameful, criminal and disappear, doubly
doomed, but even their memory was repelled by the people, and Ferragut, within Moments later,
it was going to emerge as a ghost in the houseboat she had visited twice. Could know the final
hours of its existence, wrapped in a mystery of contempt could force the hand of the judge,
who had condemned to loss of life and after death to perish in the
memory of all.

With real eagerness sat at the table of his cabin, tidying content about: more than twelve pages
written on both sides and several newspaper clippings. In these cuts saw the picture of Freya,
a hard and confusing picture. Recognized only by their name placed
at the bottom: it had been another woman.

He also saw the portrait of his defense: a old lawyer, neat appearance, with finely combed white
hair and youthful eyes.

Ferragut guessed from the first lines that the maître could not write or speak without literature.
His letter was a measured and accurate story, in which the emotion, to live was, it contained
quietly, not wanting to mess up the folds of a regal style.

Began his professional duty to explain how he had decided to defend
a spy.

Needed a lawyer, was foreign, public opinion, influenced by the exaggerated accounts the newspapers
about her beauty and her jewels, showed a fierce animosity, requesting a prompt punishment. Nobody
wanted to take over his defense, and that's why he had accepted,
without fear to the unpopularity.

Ferragut guess thought this sacrifice momentum old philanderer, who
had made Freya go because it was beautiful.

Moreover, this process was a Parisian event and could give some notoriety novel to those who intervene
in its proceedings.

A few paragraphs further, the ocean became convinced that the maitre
d 'had ended up falling in love of his client.

This woman to die when it scattered around its power seduction.

Professional success interviewed by the lawyer to dissolve the first steps. Defense Freya was
impossible. Crying for answer when he was questioned about the facts of his previous life, or
remained silent, motionless, staring, as well as if it was the fate of another woman.

Military judges did not need their confessions: they knew full detail by detail existence during
the war and in recent years of peace. Never police abroad had worked
so quickly and successfully.

A mysterious and good luck Sovereign pushed them in their search. They knew all the works of Freya,
had even provided accurate data about their personality a secret
agent, the number of order contained in the Berlin office on the money
they earned, their reports in recent months.

Documents written by herself, with an irrefutable guilt had come
to join the process, nobody knew where they were sent or by whom.

Each time the judge put Freya in the eyes of one of these tests, she looked desperately to his lawyer.

-
Them! - Moaning -. They who wish my death!

The defender was of the same opinion. The police had known their presence in France a letter
he addressed their leaders from Barcelona, ??clumsily defaced, written
under A key to the mystery which was discovered by the French counter
long before.

For the maitre d ', was certainly a mysterious power had wanted to get rid of this woman sending
it to an enemy country as if it is sent to death.

The defender Ulises guessed a state of mind like his, the same duality that had plagued them
in all dealings with Freya.

"I, sir - he wrote the lawyer - I have suffered greatly. One of my sons, officer, died in battle
Aisne, others close to me, nephews and pupils, have died after Verdun
and East expeditionary army ... "

He had felt, as a Frenchman, an irresistible repulsion convinced that Freya was a spy who had caused
great damage to his country ... Then, as a man, took pity on its
unconsciousness, its adversarial nature and light up to the crime,
selfishness beautiful woman and friend of the estate, had to admit
that the moral turpitude to change welfare.

Its history attracted the interest lawyer beating an adventure novel.

Commiseration it was taking a vehemence of infatuation. Moreover, the idea that they were the
exploiters This woman who had reported a chivalrous enthusiasm inspired him to defend its cause
unsustainable.

The hearing before the council of war had been painful and dramatic. Freya, who until then seemed
stupefied by the regime of the prison, to be aroused in front of
a dozen men in uniform and severe.

His first impulse was that of all beautiful and flirtatious female. He knew his physical influence.
These converted military judges reminded him that she had seen in teas and great balls of hotels
... What the French can resist the attraction to women?

...

Had smiled, she had replied to the first questions with a gracious modesty, setting wickedly
candid eyes on the officers sitting behind the head table and the other men in blue uniform makers accused
or read the documents of his trial.

But there was something cold and hostile environment in which paralyzed her smiles, leaving
no echo his words and made dull the glow of an eye.

Every head bowed low severe weight thoughts all men at that moment seemed to have thirty years.
Would not as it was for more efforts to do. Their admiration and wishes lay abandoned on the
other side of the door.

Freya guessed that he had ceased to be a woman and was no more than one accused. Another of
her sex, an irresistible rival, fill it all, linking to these men
with a deep love and austere.

His instinct was to look at the white matron, her face serious, advancing its bust vigorously over
the president's head. It was the country, Justice, Republic, watching with his eyes vague
and female pupil to the flesh and blood began to tremble, giving aware of his situation.

- I do not want to die !...-- cried suddenly, leaving his empty, going to be a poor creature mad
with fear -. I am innocent!

Lied to the absurd and blatant illogicality of that seen in danger
of death was necessary re-read his first statement, which denied now,
to resubmit the evidence materials, whose existence would not admit,
to march the entire past supported of those irrefutable facts of anonymous
origin.

- It is they who have done it all!

... They abused me! ... Because they want my loss, I shall tell what I know.

The lawyer went slightly in his account of what happened in the council of war. The secret professional
and patriotic interest prevented him from being more explicit.

Council had lasted from morning till night, their judges Freya revealing everything he knew
... Then, his counsel spoke for five hours, trying to establish a kind of exchange in the implementation
sentence. This woman's guilt was unquestionable and very great evils which had caused. But life
had to give in exchange for their confessions important ... In addition, had to take account
of the irresponsibility of their character ... revenge of the object did the country's enemies
...

He waited until late at night, next to Freya, the court's decision.

Her client seemed animated by hope. Had returned to being a woman, spoke quietly to him, smiling
les gendarmes to charge for their care, did praise the army ... "Some French, some Knights
were unable to kill a woman ... "

The maitre d 'was not surprised to see the sad and sulky gesture of the military to leave deliberation.
Seemed unhappy with his recent vote showed at once the serenity a
clear conscience.

They were soldiers who had just reached his austere duty, removing
everything he had on them as mere men.

The manager read the sentence swelled its voice with a fictitious energy ... "A death !...» Freya
was sentenced to be shot after a long list of crimes: reports given to the enemy, representing the
loss of thousands of men, ships torpedoed in consequence of their ads, where they had perished helpless
families.

The Spy shook his head to listen to their own actions, appreciating for the first time full enormity,
recognizing the justice of the tremendous punishment.

But at the same time confident a gracious pardon to change all that was revealed in a gallant
mercy ... to be her.

At the sound of the fatal word, uttered a cry, pale, pale as ashes, and relied on its attorney.

-
I do not want to die ... I will not die! ... I am innocent!

He continued shouting his innocence, without giving further proof that the desperate instinct
of preservation. With credulity that you want saved, accepted all the comforts of his defense
problem.

Stayed the action to appeal to the grace of the President: maybe the pardon ... He signed
this appeal with sudden hope.

Got the lawyer suspended for two months of sentence visited many of
his colleagues who were political figures.

The desire to save his client's life was haunted like an obsession. Had devoted to this subject
throughout its business and personal influences.

"Love! ... Love like you! "He said in a tone of mockery in the brain Ferragut voice of wise
counsel.

The newspapers protesting the delay in the execution of the sentence.

He began to dream in the talks on behalf of Freya Talberg as an argument against the weak government.
Women were the ones that were more ruthless.

One day in the Palace of Justice, had been convinced of the general animosity that pushed his
client to the guns of the execution. The woman in charge of keeping the togas, verbose midwife familiar
with the treatment of distinguished lawyers, had made their views
rudely.

- When to kill that spy?

... If I were a poor woman with children, they need earn their bread, and have shot ... But
it is a cocotte elegant and jewels may be slept with the ministers. Any day we shall see in
the street ... And my son who died Verdun! ...

The prisoner, as if divining the public outrage, immediately began to consider their death, losing
little by little the love of life, which made him break into lies and crazy protests. In vain hopes
maître pretended pardon.

- It is useless: I must die ... I have the right to shoot me ... Have caused much damage ...
I horrified at myself to remember all the crimes in the sentence
... And there others ignore!

... The loneliness has made me know as I am. What a shame! ... I go: I have lost everything ...
What I have to do in the world? ...

"And then, dear sir - continued the lawyer in his letter - when you
told me, as how they met, the damage they did unconsciously.

"

Convinced of the futility of his efforts, the maitre d 'had requested
a last favor.

Freya wanted to accompany her at the time of execution: it would
maintain its serenity.

And government promised to his colleague on the forum a timely notice to assist in fulfilling
of the sentence.

It was three o'clock in the morning and was in the best of his dream when he awoke to sent
to the Prefecture of Police.

The execution would take place at dawn: it was a decision at the last moment, to journalists later
they found out the event.

A car with his companions took him to
the prison of Saint Lazare, Paris through silent and gloomy. Only
a few reverberations hooded cut its pale light the dark streets. In
prison he met with other officials and many police chiefs and officers
representing the military justice system. The sentenced was asleep
in his cell, not knowing what I was going to happen.

They marched
in single file through the corridors of the prison in charge of waking,
shaded and timid, jostling with their nervous haste.

A door opened.
Under the regulatory light was Freya in bed with eyes closed. To open
and be surrounded by men, his face swelled with a wave of terror.

-
Value, Freya! - Said the prison director -. The request for clemency
was denied.

- Courage, my daughter - said the priest of the establishment,
starting the beginning of a conversation.

Their terror only lasted
a few seconds. Surprise was the rude awakening, the brain still paralyzed.
By bringing their memories and serenity returned to his face.

- Should
I die? - Asked - and the time has come? ... Well, I shot. Here I am.
Some men turned their heads to hide their eyes ...

He had to jump
out of bed in the presence of two guards. This precaution was to avoid
attempt on his life. She asked the lawyer to remain in the cell, as
if would thus reduce the time to dress before strangers.

Ferragut
surmised pity and admiration of maître At this passage in his letter.
He had seen her half naked, laying the last hit of his life.

"Adorable
creature! So beautiful! ... He was born to love and luxury, and was
about to die torn by bullets as a tough soldier ... 