 She
may well have learned the most authentic & accurate recipe for cooking these empanadas. I bet she did
not if she does not live in my province. To those who have not eaten such empanadas, the recipe
will seem strange consisting of anchovies or sardines stuffed with picadillo tomatoes & onions.
The pies are made with chocolate. That's the truth & they are good
although it seems odd.

This art of baking & pastry making is not new & it's growing within Cordoba. According to a reliable
written source; little has been reprinted and released about the true story of Lozana Andaluza.
This art flourished as early as the sixteenth century. The famous Cordoba woman made almost
all of this with remarkable perfection. The author suggests that you run without stopping much as we do
in Cordoba tradition. Mothers & daughters have passed down this knowledge to date by means of tradition.
So any native of Cordoba may boast of the day as Lozana did more than three centuries ago. Speaking
frankly with regard to proper cooking I wish to boast about the bakery. In the province of Cordoba
this art is more liberal and less likely to be produced by mercenary hands. It is hardly noble
but swanky and lazy.

His white right hand made the adobo seasoning & the sausage dressing. A woman would often come
home in the days of slaughter or in the preceeding night & make a thousand sweets. Or she
would arrive during harvest just before easter to make the syrup & porridge wine, pancakes, fritters,
& Piñonate gajorros. An adept woman would make three or four for each plate. The cook would take
the lead in everything, but very rarely the Mrs. relies on this woman completely and removes all responsibility
from herself. This woman is nothing but a helper, an alter ego. The woman who is truly in charge
is the housekeeper.

Her job is to give direction & share the responsibility of the divided
empire when it so happens that she is an inspired genious with vocation
& mission unique to such matters. This was the case in my home with a
woman named Juana la Larga. She has passed away already, and it is
certain that she has left an heiress daughter of arcane procedures.
But genious is not inherited, & the daughter of Juana la Larga is recoginzed
as competent by those who have met her.

In the kitchen with the daily meals it is a very different proceeding. A careful woman who is at home will
have what is wise, go to the pantry, give orders, but the actual cooking is left entirely to
the care of the cook.