 Will you go? Do you saved?
- Muttered impatiently time that lit another match.

Which face of Sorrows: children, contracted, tormented by a dark pain, barely conscious!

- I want to save! I want to save! - "His voice was sobbing, clinging desperately to my arm like
a lifeline.

We got to the room of Don Guillén. She did not go ahead, and I had
to do it myself.

My intention was to leave it in and retire quietly to my barracks. Against my purpose I had
to witness the beginning of the scene, because it developed suddenly and then because, in spite
of myself, and still remained gripped by the anticipation.

Anxieties fell at the feet of Don Guillen. Embraced them, foreshortened neck albo ductile, they
are watered with tears, they are lean with abundant hair and coppery. And the image is reproduced
with online emotional naive and drafted the translucent inks holy
melodies of the breviary.

- Sorry!

Sorry! - Implored Sorrows, in the spotless innocence of his soul -.

I'm very bad but I wanted anyone but you. I lost love, the despair
of love.

I'll tell you and forgive me.

Don Guillen, pale, stiff, stuttering, asked: - Get up, sister!

Anxieties due as a passive creature. Then Don Guillen knelt before her.

- You're clean. All your sins are turned against me. You and God are those who must forgive me,
and forgive me, for I have loved and suffered greatly.

Say you forgive me, gave a qualified yes lips a nod, but not from the heart.

- A thousand times yes - Angus said with a gasp, waving in the air their hair.

Don Guillen ground rose up and rushed Sorrows in her arms, tending towards he parched lips, her
head fell to the back, as inert. Don Guillen gently straightened her head and kissed his forehead.

I
realized it was the right time to retire the sly, stealthily and
turned on my heels when I heard that Don Guillén, with an accent between
alarmed and severe, he said:

- What are you doing?

Wait a moment, I have to ask a favor.

It is necessary help me to improvise an accommodation where my sister rest for several hours.
If you have in your room couch, or even a chair, I can sleep there if you do not mind, and Angus
is in this room.

Arrange the accommodation as Don Guillen wanted. By their express wishes and decided, lay on my couch.
The couch was next to the partition walls between my room and hers. Across the wall, leaned
the bed where I lay Sorrows.

Lying and Don Guillen told me from his couch:

- The most immediate and urgent and I have it decided.

Within a few hours, the first train Sorrows will Castrofuerte way,
with a letter to Don Abel Parras, an old canon, fat, peaceful and
good-natured, my best friend.

Anguish will live with him, and thus impede malignant gossip. Later, we'll see what we do ....
In thesaurus repository ...; the lost drachma has been restored to
the king's treasure and the pearl looks again, taken from darkness
to light.

If the unhappy Mrs. Basilisa not think change the will! ... Oh, what a beautiful background to the service
of men, which is the service of God ...

With the knuckles gave a slight ringing in the wall.

Answered another ring cautious.

Burst laughing, turning to face me.

- Have not you heard what we said?

I said no, dimly, because the dream I surrender.

- As I said, 'Sleep in peace, sister, has risen with the Lord.

"She said," God bless you, keep me forever.

"

"What insight! Have been granted the gift of tongues, as if instead of Easter Pentecost was,
I thought dimly, from the initial darkness of sleep.

And from very deep in my consciousness melting point guard, I said, I reckon it aloud:

- The gift of tongues! The Pentecost!

I woke up at two in the afternoon. Don Guillén had disappeared from the couch and Madrid. About
my table stood a white writing that read: "Goodbye, good friend. I've given a hug thanks and farewell,
without you, sound asleep, he has noticed. Already know you from me. Forever friend, Pedro Guillén
Caramanzana. "

And, in fact, years later, I knew and witnessed great things from him, which I refer On another occasion,
if the opportunity arises and I have nothing better to do.

CHAPTER VIII.

Sub specie Aeterni.

It is Easter Sunday. Time: just before noon. Location: in the vicinity City of Pillars. It is
a northern spring day. Earth and sky, two by female. The earth, and dense evergreen, is groomed
and Alinda prodigiously and did not shave or use other water composure and wintry snows. On cloth
Verdegay, graceful folds and lobes, with dresses that mother earth provided maid has been,
here and there, some flowery orchards, candid ornament. The sky is so gentle, pure and happy,
like pre-pubescent schoolgirl, wearing apparel and Sunday May; mild crinolines snowfall, which
shines through a blue silk background.

From the village discerned the city, shell covering a hill, as scaled breastplate lying on a torso
armor, armor wrought copper and iron, battered and, at intervals dirty gold, reddish gray in
places, a greenish stretches from the years corrosion and rust. On one side leaves the tower
of the cathedral, as Lance chipped, still stands firm under armpit. Gurgling sound and bells
ring.

From the city, up the road, up a fat man was red and sweaty, which looks at the morning sun,
a matte silver knob, and aluminum.

Follow her another man and a young boy, both of the white coat, each with baskets on her head.

- Sacrebleu, Sacrebleu - swears the fat man and crimson, in time to wipe the bleeding from the forehead
-.

Come, Nolo, that I have need for trust, and is so much better to find a loyal heart than monologue.
Oh, my God, I'm tired ...!

I tired of the patron saint of my beloved wife. The women in my country
are saving.

I love saving women, good management.

But my wife is already much too thrifty; very much, very much.

I head into my business and work like a donkey after morning to night to earn good money, but
I love me good money for good life and feed my degree.

This is already what I have. Voilà - slapping his stomach - this friend is very demanding. But
the landlady she does not eat, or eat like a little bird, she believes
that all other habemos not need to eat as it is needed.

Well, for eat in my own house I must invent some mystification. Is not it amazing and rather
unpleasant? For now, even in this way. That I'm tired ...! I'll tell you what has me the other
day, that day was thin, how say ye?, day vigil. I love salmon, but my wife does not buy salmon,
because it is expensive.

Then I myself was the market and bought a magnificent salmon for sixty pesetas, and the beautiful
fish I sent my house, as if he were a gift from a friend, on the
contrary, if she knows I I will have purchased, my wife makes a terrible
quarrel.

Behold, I am going to my house all happy, saying to me today as my
pleasure salmon.

My wife greets me with kisses of love, and she whispers, we have
good luck, they have made us a beautiful gift of a salmon too large,
which, as we would not have eaten, I've sold for forty pesetas.

Sacrebleu: no salmon, and twenty pesetas less.

What do you say?

- I give it a go away locally termed pa life like it's getting back to Pescadero.

- Voila. In this country men are little cultivated. You should not beat women, or even at the
sake of food, let alone because of other reasons unimportant infidelity
for example.

- Caracho! - Said the call Nolo -.

That food, go, but what is that. The pareceríame death recently.

-
Ah!

"Kill you? That's different. It is a beast, but I understand.

- Why Diana kill myself ...! Kill her ....

- My God, you're wild ...!

- No, sir. O Nah, you require or demand a woman, and if gets out, stick. O Nah, you paste,
or it sticks. Nah, you remember what the poor Bellarmine.

- What do I say? But is that the poor Xuantipa Bellarmine was unfaithful? I ignored.

- You win, you may not lacking. What I am saying is that, as Bellarmine could not cure his wife,
when held, with syrup ash, there is no better melecina pa the big women, then, fixed, that his wife had always
atosigao him and cure pa therefore Nah, you know, I gave poultice on the backs each stake ....

-
Yeah, I know. The poor man, my dear friend .... I miss it less, since which is enshrined there
in the asylum who you say maletería; name truly comical.

- Not maletería; is malatería.

- Is not it the same thing?

- No, sir.

- So what do you mean malatería?

- Curse if I know.

- That does nothing. But the beloved Revenga Bellarmine. I can not do without it. I I come to visit
every week or fortnight for ten years, in spite of this costs abominable that I must climb
to get. He never spoke, he never speaks. Is sweetest of souls, and I argue that a great intelligence.

-
A wimp, stupid, like the other, Apolonio ....

- Shut up, Nolo.

You do not understand. Bellarmine is a great man. And Apollonius, it is also another great
man. I want to show how much they love and admire them. That is why they I have these thick Easter
cakes and thick custard sources, and many dozens thick cakes, like other years, so many of them,
on this day.

- That will eat greedy nuns and other inmates, like other years, this
same day.

- Ah, of course!

But the cakes are in Belarmino and Apolonio, and they enjoy invite
more than being invited.

They've always given everything and have not wanted anything for them. I was not trying to Apollonius
once, only after being in the asylum. Very interesting, very interesting. It is a curious thing,
Apollonius would not treat me Bellarmine. He hates, that is, he thinks hates him. Very funny. But
Bellarmine does care if I try to Apollonius. He disdains, that is, he believes that he disdains.
Spicy situation. I have a need for great tact. But it all is so extraordinary, so extraordinary
.... Belarmino I love most, this is not to say, he is an old friend. But I love you too Apollonius.
Here we are now in the asylum. Remember, the employer can not know that habemos brought this
gift. She would make a great scandal.

Mysterious gravitation Colignon going to Bellarmine.

Is vulgar error to suppose that the force of gravity brings down the bodies. This fall involves
the notion of up and down, and in infinite space there is no up or down, the bodies and souls
sometimes rise and others fall down upwards.

The latter is what Epicurean Colignon happening to that, between gasps and hot flashes, going
back regularly costs asylum, attracted by the ascetic Bellarmine
ie falling, no will, going up to him.

Colignon rather old-looking and, penetrates, with his party at the
hall of asylum, an elongated piece of bare walls, with four helpless
straw saddles.

Front in front of the door, there is a bracket on the wall of pine, over it, a statuette, unhappy,
San Jose, cardboard, at the foot of the saint, half a dozen beans, chickpeas and half a dozen a bottle
with an olive, dense liquid, and a label says: Azeite. These holy gifts in kind to indicate that what
appears to spare, is precisely what is lacking in the asylum, so
that they know that charitable souls there seldom fall to meet in
a work of mercy, and that their gifts are the most have been necessary
in the poor house.

Tinkling, farther and farther away, a bell, voice cracked and old.

Through a door, painted black, comes an old nun, warning that is skeletal, despite Haldudo
faldamento, mummified the face. His eyes, bulky and tired, they revive a point to see Mr. Collignon,
running to meet him with outstretched hands.

- Ah! Felicita Felicita nice.

- Sister of Dolores, Mr. Colignon - corrects the nun.

- True, true. But I can not forget.

- We must forget, and if we can not forget, we seem like we've forgotten - says sister, nun anointing
and emphasis of nostalgia, as implying that, despite everything, has not forgotten. What had
to forget the sad Felicita! Above all, the cooling Colignon memory and disturbs the chest of
the sister of Dolores. These effects occur without French intention or guilt, just because of
their obesity. As viejucos asylees, and Beaton also all who go there to visit are, without exception,
lean people, each Once the sister of Dolores sees a fat man, imagine having before it the love and
Novillo spoiled, and feel again the old Felicita. Is now with his eyes obstinately humiliated,
not to get in them the image of the abdomen, round and damn evocative Mr. Collignon.

- But, my God - the newcomer exclaims laughing - which already Nah, you will be very difficult to
forget and hide .... This is a branch of the Rua Ruera other times. Bellarmine is here, Apolonio
is here, the usurer is here, you 're here. I'm only missing, and I'm here now. All others who are
not coming to the rendez-vous is because they are dead and the eternity of nothingness.

- Oh! - Sighs sister, without raising his eyes, against all rules of good sigh -. The people
here are also dead and watched the world from the perspective of eternity.

- What an idea! But still eat cakes. Meanwhile we can eat cake, God be blessed .-- Y Colignon
laughs as always with trepidation Glog turkey and stomach. I continued .-- I needed here as
beans and peas and oil.

All the better to eat cakes.

- God will reward you, sir Colignon. Leave before the sun came out today that you appear Easter
with entertainment. The old man, for eight days, smacking taste in advance, and do not talk about
anything but the rich Mr. Colignon jams. How little is needed to make the happiness of others!

-
Well not much, three kilos of flour, three kilos of sugar, three dozen eggs, three two sticks
of cinnamon and vanilla. But it appears that those who invite the poor little I'm not old, but
it is their peers Belarmino and Apolonio.

- How little is needed for happiness, and how he almost never comes to that little ...!-- says
yes the sister of Dolores, without referring, of course, to the flour, sugar and eggs, since
there was no standing attention in the reply from the French, but was absorbed in their thoughts.
Leaving him, adds: - to leave here these baskets. And will pick them up. Go, Mr. Colignon, to see
their friends, until the time of the refectory.

You know the road. Are in the garden, for sure, waiting with impatience.

Colignon runs hallways, where smells of trash, and leaves the so-called garden a garden without
flowers that some daffodils. It is an expanse of prairie, the prairie, cut by sandy tracks,
on sidewalks, wooden benches, canopy banks, the tops of the acacias. There are a breath of damp
earth.

Shines a dim and yellow sun melts forms and turns into a hint huidera and intangible, it is unknown
if dawn or dusk, and noon, a golden vapor blurring the boundaries
and melts things flowing and unit undecided, we do not know if it's
memory or hope. Elysian light. Each time Mr. Collignon, so carnal
and concrete, overlooks the garden, stepping on the edge is given
first the Champs Elysees, inhabited by disembodied images of those
who were and are no longer, of those who left in the solid earth,
home of the gentle pleasures, and do not retain but the appearance
of life, and with it the age-old passions, because passions are the
soul and the soul is indestructible. The moist breath of the earth
it gets up to Colignon bones, and experience a deep chill.

But this
is just what you like, enter for a few moments in a kind of beyond
or world of illusion and memory, to bask in their curious villagers
and certainty that there are also eaten cakes, and that he, although
within that mock the grave, can go as he pleases and return to the
delights of physiological and eventful life.

So Colignon looming
in the garden, the old, scattered on either side, come to him, with
faltering steps and labored, as in dreams, when movements are hindrance
impeded by heavy and invisible. One, especially, lingers. Comes with
step majestic and indifferent mood, determined to show no vulgar haste:
it is Apollonius. Just another remains in place, far away, sitting
on a bench, having greeted the Colignon with a slight gesture of the
hand is Bellarmine. Belarmino and Apolonio are substantially younger
than the rest of the inmates.

A nun, keeper of that herd of decrepit
men, walking down one of the paths transverse, and manages to cross
the Apollonius Roncero. The nun is Sister Lucidia. Nothing old, nor
any younger .... On the right side of the face, taking him from temple
to the corner of the lips, and all through the cheek, has - since
he was born - a crimson stain, tentacular profile as a brand new track
slap, a blow that, before out to life, gave him the destination. Lucidia
sister always has her head bowed on the right side, as if he would
not like that shame, as if trying to hide or if the other cheek, pale
and intact, with the adversity of the aggressive providence. That
spot, which seems smeared with red grape skins for a lewd hand satyr
in delirium bucolic vintage suggests a tragic love story, intimate
and sealed. The nun must have been pretty, despite the embarrassing
spot, and even more so cute, because of the stain to a passionate
spirit and prone to dramatic emotions, such as is that of Apollonius.
Apollonius about the nun, and content with fire, because if any spy
not notice, he whispers:

- Angel Comforter of my soul! I adore you,
I love you night and day. Are the pair comfort and sorrow, brilliance
and pale, like the sky. Day and night, oddly, are represented in your
beautiful face. On this side is calm and without reproach, deathly
pale, Diana, the night. On the other side is red and on, like Apollo,
fiery life father. Oh terrible fight! Penile joy or, as I look at
the fiery side, and the watchman, and looking at your face, night
and day pass the hours of my life.

- Mr Apolonio, let's couplets.
When I talk like he wants to ask me something, I know experience