 

The lady did not budge.

- Lady, get you - repeated again taking her
gently by the arm.

The silent stranger stood up and dropped into a chair, raised his hat candle covering his eyes and
wiped with a handkerchief. Fr Gil, standing before her, waiting to explain. And showed no signs
of it, before covering her face increasingly ventured to say:

-
Madam, I would like to know how I can serve ...

Still took a moment
to respond.

Finally he said, without removing the tissue of the eye:

- I am
the wife of D. Alvaro Montesinos.

The toilet took a step back involuntarily.

How? "This lady was despicable slut had the misfortune of D. Alvaro of who her godmother Ms Eloisa
always spoke with horror? For it knew the sad story of that marriage. The heir to the house
of Montesinos was in love like crazy a young man of good family, but without money, one of those
girls who are usually seen in Madrid in all theaters and all Sarah to hunt for a rich husband. Be
even with Montesinos, Joaquin Dominguez (that was his name) gave cordelejo a season, perhaps
hoping that came with the same wealth and better shape, because the firstborn of Peñascosa
was, indeed, the most feeble and miserable that could be. When they did not arrive, resolviose one
day to fall in love with him and showed it in a way that left no room for doubt. "All the elegant
Madrid" recalled a cute blonde paid to turn first pair of theater Real, who spent the night chatting
with a skinny, pale gentleman sitting in the row back, that the Comedy Theatre and the Apollo
did not detract top Twins from his audience, taking him on the ride trailer del Retiro, and up
in the morning when she went shopping, she looked to him, escorted by his mother. Entirely convinced
love, the gentleman asked her to marry, and obtained not without some work, because the mother
Costolo many tears give that jewel, which was the joy of the house. In the first D. spent four
months Álvaro income throughout the year. Joachimite wanted car and box in theaters, and gave meetings
and soirees. But she was so beautiful and her husband was so happy, frantic with love professed
that he had not refused the heart and blood if one day the request after a long loving kiss, pressed,
spasmodic, such as those gave him when he had to ask for a diamond rivière sociable or full
suspension.

At six months just fancied the young wife to travel to Europe, a long trip was to last a year
or more, to visit all of France, Italy, then England go, go to Germany and run to St. Petersburg.
The lover Montesinos placed no obstacles in this desire, but should put them. We needed a respectable
capital to do it, watch the comforts and trappings that Joaquin intended travel. Loan requested
some of 30,000 farms went out hard and Madrid. In Hendaye at the inn were railroad Federico Torres
drinking chocolate, a half-witted son of a minister Madrid Court Accounts. A Joaquin had always
been very unfriendly, not knowing why.

- Where will this puppet? - Asked softly, after his greeting coldly match.

Montesinos shrugged indifferently.

- What will you fight this guy! I find it fine and pleasant.

- What horror - she said laughing.

Pau went to see him at the station, and no longer saw him more. In Marseille thought marriage
stop four or five days, but the third, coming D. Álvaro station fix the subject of sleeping-car
for the next day, to his surprise he found his wife not at home. The surprise became all at once astonished
to see the horrible mess of the room. The big Saratoga trunk of his wife was gone. There were
different items of clothing by soil. The servants told him that the woman had been transporting
the chest after leaving He double-billing for small, he said. Then came out and had not returned.
Montesinos, stunned, horrified by the idea that crossed by the brain, opened with a hand convulsively
Secret of the chest where they kept the money. Not a penny was there already. Understanding of
once all his misfortune, fell to the ground as if struck by lightning. It was several days
between life and death.

When she regained consciousness, he telegraphed to his brother D. Martin which immediately appeared
and took him to Peñascosa.

He soon became known that Joaquin Federico had escaped with Torres,
and traveling merrily around Europe with the money the gentleman.

This was the woman before the P. Gil. After that first movement of repulsion, was rebuilt and said:

-
Serénese you a little lady, and tell me how I can promote it.

- I just returned from Madrid - articulated with the lady working
- and I headed home to my husband with whom I fought long ago ...
Wanted to reconcile with him ... to conclude that separation so ugly
and so outrageous ... An old servant who has ... A brute!

... would not let me see ... grabbed my arm ... I threw to home to shove ... Yes, shoving!

Here the woman burst into tears again and again covered her face with
her handkerchief.

The priest waited to continue, but seeing that he did not, took the floor again.

- I'm sorry this incident, Mrs. ... But I do not think there is cause
for such despair.

The offenses that do not feel forgiven.

Pardon this poor servant who has done without knowing I did, and
tell me what I can do in your gift.

Dry eyes unfaithful wife. Again and again moisten dry.

- As I have said here at the inn, you're the only person who visits my husband ... I beg, for the
most sacred, and that you are his friend, to intervene to end our
separation.

I want it long ago with anxiety ... I confess that I was not good for he ...

- Yes, yes, I know everything - impatiently interrupted the cleric.

The lady was highly colored.

- I confess that I have offended seriously ... It was a moment of blindness ... a temptation demon
... But I've always wanted ... and I love him ... I have no objection to humiliate to ask forgiveness
on his knees ... You see, father, if you do not humiliate me like no ... I am appalled at the idea
of ??not getting his forgiveness, dying away from him alone, damn! Oh, future so awful! ... If
anything I have sinned, believe me I have suffered much in recent
times ...

- Lady, and can you understand if I would join a satisfaction
in marriage dissolved ... the same thing to you than anyone else.

My mission is to preach harmony between men and die for it if necessary. Even without asking me
I have the duty, my responsibility, to strive in this parish reconciliation
among quarreling marriage ... But this case is sensitive.

Apart from the extremely serious offense that you have inflicted on her husband, the scandal that
accompanied it, of those who followed, all of which make it extremely
difficult reconciliation apart that, again, there is another major
difficulty.

And is that your husband is out of the Church Catholic. I have no other influence on him than
he can give a superficial friendship.

None of reasoning to which I could appeal as a priest has power over his mind. On the contrary,
given their ideas, it is possible that served to embravecerle more, or at least derision ...

-
Yes, yes - the lady interrupted shrilly, malevolent, - my husband has always been a wicked,
an atheist outrageous.

- Lady, is of little use to believe if you act as if no thought -
said severely toilets, who had wounded the aggressive tone of the
lady, so contrary to humility before.

To be turned red and dropped his eyes back to affect a great contrition.

Fr Gil continued:

- Anyway, as a Christian and a priest, I am willing to do all they
can my power to get what you want.

I doubt much of the success of my speech ... I know I also expose
you to be cast as the house, but I do not care.

Keep my duty, and if you do not get anything, I will be at least the satisfaction of having fulfilled
...

He remained thoughtful for a moment, while the lady kept on him a look intense and anxious. Then, as
if speaking to himself rather than with her, continued:

- The address is now home to D. Alvaro has drawbacks. The common people are curious ... Came
the gossip ... after the scandal ... I think we should wait a while to concluded dark, or better
yet, that I was ahead to test the matter ...

- No! No! - Exclaimed the lady .-- will not prevent you. Would refuse to receive me. It is necessary
to take him suddenly, take the first movement of his heart that is generous. Then, when reflects,
it is bad, mocking ...

- As you wish. So we will wait.

But the moment of pronouncing the word took over the inconvenience
of staying much time alone with a woman, a little embarrassed and
said:

- You will allow me to leave her alone while a few moments
... I'm with you shortly.

Instead of being with her, sent her love to accompany her.

Only when the light was extinguished completely up again with hat
in hand, prepared to leave.

The wife of D. Álvaro, so I saw this trace, rose from his chair.

He had already closed the night.

Seafarers had retired to their houses or taverns. In the long, winding
street a few passers-circular dial.

The toilet and wife Montesinos walked a while in silence towards the Field of fainting. Approaching
he both felt agitated, fearful. Both to calm down a bit as a precaution, paused a moment, and
getting into the hollow of a door, whispered with animation. Fr Gil insisted on his idea first
entered the house and explore the spirit of D. Álvaro: afraid of
a scandal.

The lady was opposed by heat, convinced beyond all doubt that her
husband would refuse to receive it at all, and take precautions to
avoid the pisase floor of his house.

The more embedded in the discussion were of another door opening
near a shadow came close, high, and approached them quickly.

- Good
evening, Father, good night.

She was the daughter of Osuna. There was in the inflection of his voice as he uttered these
words ironically, mixed with anger, which surprised both the lady
and the priest.

He raised his head and replied coldly:

- Good night, dear.

- Are
you going to pray, or you come from? - Asked the same jingle and smiling.

-
Neither I nor come for prayer, my daughter.

At this time I deal with issues in my ministry - said Fr sternly Gil.

But this tone, rather than reassure the young or intimidate, the curled
apparently.

- You are always doing something for God, Father, hee!

Ji! the same in the church, which at the head of the dying ... in
the doorways, ji!

Ji!

... If you die before I, and you have a witness to some of his miracles
to him canonized ... Well, I do not want to impede the miracle.

Hasta la vista. Ji! Ji!

And when he had taken two or three steps, without turning said:

-
And enjoy!

Montesinos's wife looked up and stared at the P. Gil a look of wonder
and curiosity.

- What is that?

The priest, red with shame and indignation, lifted his shoulders in
ignorance and walked toward the mansion of Montesinos.

VI

By pulling the wire greasy, the same mournful tolling, which had so
impressed P. Gil the first time I set foot in that house, was both
a thrill of fear and anxiety.

He soon heard the hoarse voice of Ramiro.

- Who is it?

- Peace People.

- Who is it? - Turned to ask.

- I, Ramiro.

Open - replied the priest.

The door swung slowly on its hinges and appeared the silhouette of the old, dimly enlightened
by the light of the lamp that burned over the lintel.

- Go you, excuse - without receiving said the lady, who had hidden behind it. But seeing it finally
stepped back and opened his arms in an attitude of preventing the entrance, said:

- Ah! Does it return you company? ... For neither of these ... Do not enter you, no!

- Come on, Ramiro - the priest said softly, laying a hand on his shoulder, - let us step, this
is a delicate matter and that does not concern you.

- Come in anytime,
but that woman can not pass.

- Why can not happen? - Courageously
asked the priest, raising his head.

- Why not come here p. ... or
thieves.

Before this barbarous insult, the lady covered her face with her hands
and groaned.

Fr Gil turned red, and taking the old by the arm, shook him violently.

- Be more polite, and since it does not respect the cassock seen, save the regard that are due to
the ladies. Before God and man this is the lawful wife of his master
you.

Let me safe passage, which you do not touch on the subject rather than hear, see and be silent.

And
giving a jolt to the old saying went:

- Come on, lady.

But Ramiro, agitated, convulsed, as if to fall prey to syncope, began
to run before them, shouting:

- Alvaro, Alvaro!

To enter the z. .. at home!

Two maids looked out the ladder and watched with amazement the scene.

The old man did not stopped in the main, proceeded to the second, giving the same cries. Fr Gil,
who Joaquin was still told it to reach the first floor:

- Stay here
for now, I will go alone.

When he reached the second, stumbled D. Alvaro to point out to your
room. His face, always pale, it was now as scared.

In four words he had learned Ramiro what was happening. In the afternoon, when first wife had been unfaithful
to home, had not done. D. Alvaro did not utter a word. Caught with a convulsive hand arm the
priest and brought him into his cabinet. Then he closed the door carefully.

- What's that woman? - Asked by futile efforts to appear calm. The voice left her weak and hoarse throat.

-
Comes to beg his forgiveness.

- You are mistaken, is for money - said smiling and forcefully.

Fr Gil remained silent for a moment and said after:

- I dare assure you nothing. It seems that you are sorry ... His accent is sincere and cried with
real pain in my presence.

A flash of anger came into the eyes of the gentleman. In that rush of emotions that are stirred in spirit,
anger managed to beat all others, and uttered in a tone dismissive:

- I am perfectly satisfied that comes only by the quarter ... but anyway I could care less about their
repentance and sincerity ... If you are repentant, that you have
a priest for absolution.

The figure for a moment that I can forgive is a new insult is an idea that a soul can only be as
miserable as theirs.

- Forgiveness never degrades.

It is the virtue that most ennobles man - said the cleric, surprised.

D. Álvaro thrust a long look angry. After disdainfully shrugged and said:

- Okay, let's stop that.

What matters is that, since it has brought, will take you immediately
this woman.

- I would beg her to, but not forgive, we allow at least
talk to you ... You may have to make some disclosures.

- I am curious.

You can keep his revelations or entrust to whom he pleases ... For
me (hear you well I'll tell you) - while she took with clenched hand
wrist - for my part, now or ever will cross the floor with her ...
You can tell them.

Fr Gil dropped his head and remained silent while the primogeniture
began pacing restlessly the room with his hands in his pockets.

From time to time he drew on his face sarcastic smile and let out through the nose a slight
huff accusing tension your spirit, reveals the tension whistle steam boiler.

- Since it can not be - said after a while the priest softly, - you
understand, D. Álvaro, that lady can not go to sleep outside the house
without giving fuel to poor languages, without renewing talks should
not be renewed.

Selfishness, if not for charity you must consent to his wife now
sleep in this house, because I do not think that suits you shock the
population.

D. Álvaro continued its hectic rides without a word, as if he had
not heard the proposition the priest.

After a while he stood in front of him and staring at him, said:

- Okay. Tell him if you like, there is no objection to sleep in this house ... but it needed little
dignity to accept - he said, lowering his voice and emphasizing the syllables .-- And if you
want money for the trip back, Osuna will provide it.

- I thank you for this courtesy, but I'm very sad - he replied smiling P. Gil .-- Any sacrifice
would erase the memory of the offense received and again welded chain
their marriage.

How would this time be a man eloquent! ...

- Eloquence, Mr. toilets, has served in this world to committing large vile; but I think it
would be any higher than you propose.

- For you are a vile what to me would be a noble and generous act,
himself an imitator of Christ.

We understand in regard to what is dignity or indignity ...

- Sorry for you, father - said the firstborn, extending his hand.

- And I for you, D. Álvaro. Good night.

Left alone he continued to walk even a few moments, then stood before the cord the bell and pulled
hard. Ramiro submitted soon.

- That woman is there ... You want me to take? - Asked the old man, without waiting for orders
of his master.

- No. Lead it to the room, turn on all lights and tell Dolores you upload.

The servant stood still, looking at him with surprise.

- And you will agree that this ...

- Silence! - Said the firstborn with energy, bringing the finger to his lips .-- s immediately
I command you.

The old man walked away grumbling. At once the maiden.

- Dolores, tell the cook to prepare dinner for the lady who is down,
and make every what you know.

Light up the room, take out the fine china, blue and fix the cabinet's decision best clothes closet
to put it in bed ... You do not miss anything. Help her to undress, anything you do to order immediately.
Are you aware?

- Yes, sir, miss you care, you will be treated as who she is.

D. Álvaro glanced sideways to her and said quickly, something shortened:

- Despáchate soon and show her the blue cabinet. If you want to sleep on the other hand, can show
also the fourth call of the bishop.

Again and again was only launched his nervous walk from one angle
to another of the camera. Despite the strength and calmness that was
shown to reject the pleas of P. Gil, his brain worked agitated, feverish.
That visit so unexpectedly removed the happy memories and unfortunate
that they had settled to the bottom of his being, and no longer bothered
him. His life double that in those three years had been moving away
from his memory like a dream the clarity of the aurora fades, suddenly
appeared before his eyes, so close that touched by hand. Not a detail
missing from the table. And before that vision was embarrassed, as
if the events had just made.

After walking a few minutes long strides,
started to pause often, paying heard noises coming from the first
floor. Guessed more than perceived preparations that slavery was running
for the sake of that vile woman who had revealed all the blackness
and all the pain of life: "Now the dining room down the lamp ... Now
take the dishes ... They must be making the bed ... Has left people,
will be looking Rufino to store something ... Look like they're blue
in the cabinet ... "

No longer walking. With his ear to the keyhole,
avidly collected all the rumors came from below. And as they arrived
too confusing, he concluded to open the door, advance cautiously to
the handrail of the stairs and listen from there, motionless, gathering
breath. He had vaguely imagined that his wife, once alone and free,
would rise to its room to talk. I would have liked to be the joy of
throwing it with some phrases disparaging you reach the bottom of
the soul. There was a moment he thought that desire was done. Heard
footsteps on the stairs, all his blood flowed to the heart quickly
to leave the rails and get back into the room. Dolores was coming
up to ask a key. When he left, returned to his espionage remained
on the stairs very long time without knowing why he did that. She
heard the confused murmur of conversation and his wife Dolores. The
girl was chattering; Joaquin also had an expansive mood: the talk
increasingly encouraged. So it figured to see some happy laughter
of his wife, that surprised him most indignant. At last he noticed
that he began to eat. Dolores was and came with the dishes. Finished
dinner. The maid stood in the dining room and continued talk. Tired
of standing, sat in one of the rungs of the ladder. In doing felt
ashamed and began to give some vague account of the emotions that
seize your mind. Waited a long time that way, feeling the confused
murmur of voices, in which nothing could distinguish, or even what
it was that of his wife and which is the maid. After observed leaving
the room. I still figured that his wife would use this occasion to
go up to visit. He stood strongly and prepared to get into his room
as soon as felt footsteps on the stairs. But he waited in vain. Mrs.
Dolores went to blue cabinet. He felt the door close behind them,
then noticed that opened again and the maid came and took the path
of his room. Undoubtedly helped to strip the lady and left her in
bed.

With his head in his hands, his elbows on his knees, stood motionless,
abstracted, only now hearing the voice of his thought and the beating
of his heart. A lively spite, which would not notice him cruelly biting
the bowels. I felt the need sighted with his wife, insults, spitting,
slapping her. Why was a moment had refused to receive it, and now
yearned to have it that way before? The thought mayorazgo it was because
their hatred and indignation had grown up. He did not know how long
it stayed in this position. The desire to be in front of his wife
increasingly burned alive in his chest, made him restless, excited,
it was becoming a fever, an intense rage that devoured. Oh, having
it in his hands, squeezing until he screams in pain, make you suffer
in the body that he had suffered in the soul! Hot iron spikes pricked
him by back, his hands trembled as if you were asked to calm down
a choke with his forward, an unbearable heat was rising from the legs
to the brain