 It feels stunned with admiration at the sublime view of the Assumption of
Murillo, so deeply celestial in its form and expression, of the famous painting by Zurbaran (Which
has its political and diplomatic history) representing the preaching of St. Thomas Aquino,
Concepcion, and a Visitation of Valdez, which evokes the whole poem divine unction the biblical
mystery, of Christ, also Zurbarán, amazing supreme pain and agony; of a Marquez Jesus of Stephen
(disciple of Murillo), who seems set for the inspiration and the master's hand, and purpose
of the Five Apostles of Polanco, an artist whose works I have seemed remarkable for the power
brush. Looking at all these figures, under the shadows of the deserted temple, one can understand
the superiority of the geniuses who, deeply agitated by a feeling of piety and Christian idea,
have created a new art form, giving seal of majesty, the anointing and holiness.

This is precisely what stands out to tour the room that contains only works Murillo. The twenty
paintings that form this collection were made during a closure volunteer to be condemned by the pious
artist, exiled in the Capuchin convent in Seville. Murillo is well known that never began a work
without having received Communion, which proves how impressed him deeply religious feelings.
The loneliness was her best element, because infused recollection, she gave them their supreme
bliss almost inimitable character to all creations of the great artist from Seville. In this regard
it is worth a mention superior work of Herrera the Elder, which is in the prime living. San
Hermenegildo is an admirable, made in his dungeon by that artist, condemned to lose the hand for giving
him a slap to a certain cleric. No doubt the artist really understand the full value of your
hand into a chapel since produced a sublime work that earned him forgiveness. Almost always the
biggest productions born genius at critical moments and in the shadows of the gathering.

Would be almost useless, and perhaps pretentious, to make a choice either between the twenty-three
Murillo paintings, worth more than five hundred thousand dollars, according to some insiders.
All are to that better. HOWEVER, the picture representing the miracle of San Francisco Assisi
is perhaps the most vigorous as brush work or labor. As a work of inspiration, nothing seduces as
well as the Worship of Jesus: the figure of the Virgin is an expression of purity and joy celestial
insurmountable, and the candor, simplicity, surprise guilty to the shepherds who peep the child
with childish curiosity, are inimitable. It may be necessary to mention also, as sovereign creations,
the beggar's box Santo Tomas de Villanueva, a San Felix of Cantalicio, a Concepcion (the study
of choice for Murillo) and Asuncion, very kind rare artists have managed to copy or disclose
their true condition.

       

* * * * *

The reader will forgive me if I invite you to visit yet another interesting museum, simple portion
of this vast, complicated and precious museum of a thousand forms is called .-- I speak Sevilla
University Church, which overseas visit with great pleasure. There is a large collection of
interesting tombs in every respect. Among the ten that stand out are the Duke of Alcalá and
his wife, founders of the building, and other noble Castilian famous in history, they are true monuments
for the sake of form, the merit Marbles and the delicacy and richness of the reliefs, busts
and other sculptures or bodies. In class religious sculptures are a Christ Montañez, so astonishingly
higher alone is worth a museum and a San Ignacio de Loyola and San Francisco de Borja (Same
artist), which are impressive statues. The San Ignacio mainly seems to have made the supreme
ideal of art which can animate the marble, stone or other material, and give an eloquent speech
and a deeper look. The whole history of the Society of Jesus seems
to emerge a priori from the marble facing and that burning eye and
fascinating that polls and meditate.

As to paintings of the chapel, the altar and the side walls contain really works Roelas master,
Pacheco, Alonso Cano and other artists who had just celebrity Spain. It is well worth noting
that the art of painting has always run in pairs chivalric and religious movement of peoples.
Among European companies brush always seems to have reigned next to the sword and the shadow
of the cap. Italy, Spain and France, - the people more and more exalted warriors before in the
religious sense - have history revealed in the paintings with remarkable
energy.

Spain is a country immensely rich in paintings, because he had exuberance of conquistadores
and friars.

HOWEVER, few cities have on the peninsula has the privilege to Sevilla. Madrid, Barcelona, ??Cadiz,
Burgos, etc., Are essentially Spanish. Valencia is half Moorish, but much less in terms of
art to the two most notable cities of Andalusia. Cordoba is almost entirely Moorish. Toledo
essentially complex, but leaving dominate the Gothic and Greco-Roman in its main monuments. Only
Seville and Granada have the unique advantage of revealing simultaneously, for their artistic,
the most complete expression of different and even opposing civilizations.

       But Seville is still far superior to that Granada.

Sevilla holds them together and alive, with singular energy, all the Eastern traditions, as well
as evidence of Latino art and works of gothic top.

* * * * *

Mention a monument still extremely funny, which is a Moorish-style works more interesting in
that plastic art of sculpture and colorful as the Moors had advanced in the fourteenth century.
I refer to the House of Pilate, curious building which now belongs to the Dukes of Medinaceli.
It ensures that the house is a reproduction of which dwell the famous court in Jerusalem that left politicians
who sit and model the skill is to kill and wash your hands, a Crusader Auditors Spanish, again
Seville of holy war, wanted to perpetuate the memory of his campaigns in Palestine and that built
the House-Pilate brought under the model.

Whether or not the tradition, is that the house does not reveal in his works of art but the
florid Arabic style (most advanced) I could not have been known at the time of Christ, and that
had barely begun in of the crusades. But the question we do not mind the curious, we merely observed
and pick up prints.

Cross the famous house of Seville has two courtyards, the first ordinary and works of art, and consists
of two floors, with superimposed galleries, as cloisters. The inner courtyard perfectly square (generally
in the oriental architecture) is all paved with beautiful marble tiles and large black and white,
and has a gorgeous center source matching with four Roman statues in each corner. The galleries
are supported twenty-four columns, also of marble, grace and lightness, and all around the walls
are busts of Roman emperors worked very well. If pavements galleries and the central bottom and
walls of exquisite tiles shine (Which are mosaics of oriental art) at the top is a great luxury
of arabesques or relief, white and colors that mimic or reproduce the plastics and fine workmanship
stucco of the Alhambra and the Alcazar, - always servile, without originality or variation, but
always funny.

       Finally, around the courtyard, low galleries, are four classrooms
whose tiles, arabesques and ceilings are happy for the execution careful
and colorful.

The rest of the House of Pilate, though more or less funny, low flame attention, being noted that the
distribution of the building is extremely simple.

* * * * *

Seville is a city famous for many reasons, among others, by the eminent
men or characters history has produced.

They had their cradle Roman emperors Hadrian and Theodosius the famous Las Casas, painters Murillo,
Herrera (old) Roelas and Pacheco, the famous historian Herrera, called the divine, and poets
and Jauregui Rioja. Magellan went away to make his first trip around the world in 1519, and
Seville to Granada is challenging home of Lope de Rueda, the illustrious actor and playwright,
Molière kind of Spanish.

Each of the nine suburbs of Seville is marked by a monument or important factory. But Triana
is a specialty purely social. Is linked to the city, as I said, by a beautiful suspension bridge,
which disrupts or serves to limit navigation Guadalquivir sea. Its docks facing the main port of
Seville, as to the strengths that dominate the river and the railway station leading to Cordova. If
the first streets of Triana coming to the port have the general structure of of the city, to
move into this suburb is the complex issue of old Spain and Roma
populations.

Triana is the residence of all Roma Seville, whose fate is very similar to that of the Jews in
Rome, Prague and other cities Europe. Just as in these there is a ghetto or barrio where the Israelites
live or vegetate, confined in some places (as in Prague) and cruelly treated or banned (as in Rome),
Roma have their ghetto in every city of Spain, without ever inhabit other neighborhoods.

But there is a very substantial difference. The Jew is banned in Europe, especially in Rome,
a spirit of persecution and intolerance, or by tradition or custom, while the gypsy Spain is not persecution.
He is confined to a single neighborhood, outlawing himself, by race spirit (pride, resentment
and interest in isolation), and it shows Roma to form a separate community, both in Madrid (to
the door of Toledo) in Grenada (in the Albaicin) and in Seville in the suburb of Triana. Here
is revealed perhaps more energy to one of the hallmarks of Roma. In Grenada it is almost natural
architecture ground of that race, because the ground appears to indicate in the Albaicin. But
Sevilla not understood at first why the Roma are the same system (although varied greatly in
shape), even though the field is entirely level Triana. The appearance of the streets is very
sad. Rare are the homes that have a high floor, almost all are very low, with doors and windows
petty, small deserts patios, walls and ceilings regrettable that reveal extreme poverty and neglect.
The streets, very badly paved, are usually deserted, and when walking
on them can barely hear the noise of underground objects Metal Hammer
or cobbler, - or very rarely seen a female face, in a window, or a
small group of dirty boys in a hallway or patio, sad, poorly clothing
and repellents and rough faces in general.

It is rare gypsy's house has no basement floor is recorded from the street. The door opens immediately
on a kind of basement (the workplace), or by through a small vestibule tilted, either through
a grandstand almost abrupt. Rooms that are at street level are for bedrooms and other uses,
or dug deep on earth contain the workrooms, workshops and forges. Obviously there are the Gypsies
a tendency to life underground, which is not consistent in appearance with the nomadic habits. Even in the
way of preparing food is served from the gypsy holes dug in the earth, - procedure ingenious that
lends itself to mystery and promotes the rapid cooking of animal substances and vegetables. You may
have some ethnological principle determine these trends to the underground; but the simplest explanation
seems to be in the nature of the industry and customs of Gypsies. Race and tin smiths of people
who have no regular notion the idea of ??ownership, traditionally accustomed to fraud, theft
thieves, the mystification and the procedures with hypocrites, - the Gypsies have understood
clearly that their Breakfast should be appropriate to the concealment and deceit. Thus, when lead
nomadic life, home change from night to morning, about the place, and are always set in the
most lonely, and when forced to build their fixed residence Breakfast in the least conspicuous,
making a mockery of social control.

We were told that in the Triana district would see curious and animated pictures of people Roma,
which is quite large. But we find only sadness, solitude and silence. Perhaps chose the wrong
time or day to satisfy our curiosity. What I could get with Security was the belief that the
Spanish people there is no hatred or no concern for Gypsies (race which I find much less than
is generally incorrigible think), but efforts are not suitable for producing an assimilation
or full merger. There are many Catholic Gypsies in Spain, HOWEVER they are seen to persist in
habits of isolation. And the most curious is that the Catholic Gypsies (who are by Baptism and
without any awareness of Christian doctrines and Catholic) are distinguished Spain by the brutality
of his fanaticism, in moments of religious exaltation. This proves Fanaticism is always the companion
of ignorance, and that the full force of the truffles is anywhere in the domination of the masses
to obey mechanically barbarian the impetus given to them. The world will not get rid of religious conflict
but the day disappeared from the companies' barbaric element. " So we can understand the horror
The operators of religion truffles look any tendency towards training and education of the masses.
* * * * *

Seville is not only a commercial and agricultural center of the first order in Spain is also
a city ??on a large scale manufacturer, but little manufacturing. Large factories, called actual
manufacturing, which in other European cities to meet hundreds and even thousands worker and
consumer are huge masses of products do not exist in Seville, where machinery (As in most of Spain)
is still very backward. What is there is the small manufacturing and the engine, whose products
are very significant on account of the mass of workers and the multiplication of the workshops.
There exists an organization of work in detail produce visible results. Since the establishment
of a small factory does not require a train expensive, is very accessible to men of the middle
class and even the workmen acquisition one or more looms, a workshop or workshop, and therefore
is easier than in cities manufacturing step status to the master worker, employer or landlord.
With the small factory or workshop agglomerations of workers are very small, article worked
is often more accurate and art, morality wins, the craftsman or worker has an interest in the
work and work at home, and their welfare is greater and perhaps less exposure to trade shocks
affecting large-scale manufacturing. In addition, the worker more independence and dignity is
working on his own or on a reduced scale.

Economists in general (perhaps quite forgetting the interests of moral address in preference
to those of wealth) have led to exaggerated enthusiasm for manufacturing. The economics of
production, which lowers the price of products and ultimately serve the same workers, has made
them ignore certain interests moral (purity, dignity and independence of the worker) that are
seriously committed large factories. I do not intend here to examine economic and moral issue
so important; but I will note the observation made about the population of workers in Europe.
In major cities in Spain and in Switzerland, in Lyon and others in Europe, whose more valuable
products are the result of the production in detail, I noticed more independence and welfare,
more dignity and sense of personality in the workers' strictly in the cities manufacturing where
large clusters of machines (human and iron) tend to replace the collective strength to the force production
or limited to small individual groups of workers. Others are perhaps the predominant causes,
but the fact is patent, and truth is that in Spain, where the vast factory is very rare (except
a few cities Catalan), the notion of personality is deep and comprehensive peace in the village.

Sevilla,
as I said, is a city artist and artistic excellence, and its industries reveal strongly. There
is a street where many shops are not and workshops Sculpture (mostly
in plaster), painting, jewelry and silverware, and all sorts of curios.

There is very considerable value made by weapons, tools and everything which corresponds to
the hardware, musical instruments (especially the elegant and bandolas guitars and fine),
lots of fabrics and artifacts of silk and wool, hats, etc., etc. The production of fine china
is considerable, and noting the fur enough tanned, which mimic the beautiful Moroccan morocco
and leather. Sevilla, and agricultural center Low Andalucia, makes strong exports of oil and
wines and great values ??centralizes in grains and fruits of all kinds. It is beyond the agricultural,
industrial and commercial that can reach Spain, and particularly the provinces of Andalusia,
the day in that country renounce the inept regime of selfishness (which results in prohibitions
and monopolies), and acceptance of free trade with all regions of the world.

* * * * *

We did not have much time to do a thorough study of Sevilla.

       But impressions collected within a few days enough to make us sympathize
strongly with the mother Andalusian so poetic and original, so picturesque
at all.

It is interesting also as a center intellectual life and welfare. Has a substantial library, an
economic partnership, a high school, several notable institutions and arts education, a savings
bank in prosperity, as sixteen hospitals, orphanages and institutions of charity and beneficence.
On the other ie churches abound, as fabulously abundant convents. I have had a hundred and twelve
buildings religious, among churches, convents, chapels and oratories, which proving that in Seville
famines have never been as regards the spiritual nourishment. On the contrary, in this area
in Spain has been sinned by gluttony, indigestion resulting secular.

Sevilla has a total circumference (with the suburbs) of 25 kilometers, and its walls, still something
to resist the action of time, have more than sixty turrets and thirteen
doors or fourteen more or less significant.

Are numbered up to five hundred sixty-four streets and sixty seats, the barracks abound, unfortunately,
but even also abundant sources and public water is not needed at any point. Besides the many
sights of interest, more or less officer, of all styles and uses, cite the two theaters of the city
and the splendid bullring. The Seville rightly boast of having the best bullring in Spain, more affluent
and the Virgin in the cathedral. Rather, I would have a poor and lack Virgin bullfighters and a
circus that could not be better name than slaughter splendid.

Contáronme fabulous things about the luxury of ostentation that unfolds in Seville Week Santa,
coinciding with the great fair in Seville.

So while people makes pitch wonders in the processions to be at the height of opulence unheard of
Virgin, manolas majos and hold at the fair all the luxury of their picturesque dresses, their
weapons, horses and riding harnesses. Each class does things his own way, but I confess the
vanities of the show seem more excusable than those of the processions. Christ and the Virgin
should bother much in heaven, seeing the way they worship publicly on earth.

* * * * *

       CHAPTER VII.

       * * * * *

The Guadalquivir.

It was seven o'clock when we took the train from the recent railway which connects Cordoba
and Seville. For the first time was to test the route between the small Lora City, not far from
Sevilla, and Cordoba. Thus, although the train was beyond reproach in the first section already
in operation, was reduced from Lora to Cordoba, to a third wagon class, in which employees of
the company's administration had the kindness to give us place. As the rails were recently settled
and demanded rectification, our great wagon (which looked like a Noah's Ark, bringing people
of all kinds in the most democratic confusion) jumped and bucked
at every moment as ten wild horses together, which amused us and alternately
frightened.

The principle runs via a beautiful and vast plains, to the left of the Guadalquivir and from
numerous country houses, plantations of vegetables, cereals, olive still fresh, and fallow fields
where sheep graze, and some beautiful pomegranate groves that looked more charming for its elegant
form and pretty red flowers. Lora is a town of 8,000 inhabitants, located a short distance of
the railroad, and that becomes more important to train under. Later it crosses the Guadalquivir
and it pays via constantly until very near Cordoba, So it is always
in sight.

The river banks generally low, shallow bed, sandy and muddy, no navigation and has the beauty that
is supposed to advance. The land, generally flat framed in the valley between low hills cords
or high hills, is well suited for landscapes laughing, but the absence of trees on the banks of grasslands
(but is very rare points) makes unpleasant or monotonous a region that could be beautiful
in its entirety. HOWEVER, Here and there are gorgeous views on the game from the hills to the valley,
the twists and turns of the river, some trees and some very interesting geological formations
(Such as the ruined castle hill and Almodovar) corresponding to the
buttresses Sierra de Córdoba, which is part of the Sierra Morena.

From Seville to the front of Palma on the railroad played in the city of Carmona and three
small towns, Lora, and Peñaflor Guadalabar, offering beautiful views
and leaving register a vast field of olive trees, vineyards and cereals.
But as he passed by in front of Palma admire the landscape is beautiful.