 There is in the style of The Lonely is a significant concern to imitate Cervantes, and
as he said announcing his novels, attempts to show "its originality in their works and parts components
are not marred with the modern present, vandalism, barbarian language supplants today property
and beauty of our language. "

The preparation and Arabs had Estébanez Calderon and his love of Granada and Andalusia, brought
him to write novels and short stories, and historical arguments, and fantastic; but all related
to the Muslim world. Among those who publish only in the story Don Egas squire - something
comical imitation of the medieval language - Arabs are no longer
their characters.

To the best of these novels, Christians and Moors, says Canovas del Castillo in his work Lone
and his time: "If anyone wants to know what the root of the conquest of Granada was a village
in the mountains of Ronda, Malaga or the Ajarquia Alpujarra, and why way he thought and lived, you can simply
flip through the pages of this booklet delicious. And surely, if truly expert in the annals
of Spain in that time, and particularly of the kingdom of Granada, will say to himself something
like that in the Censeur Européen de to May 1820 he wrote the famous
Augustin Thierry about Ivanhoe, is as follows: there was more story
there than in the genuine stories.

"

A DON LUIS RIO USOZ Y

Certainly be a hard thing, dear friend of mine, rebuffed those traits from my pen and these fantasies
of my imagination brought down to achieve the severity and correction of your choice and your
knowledge of all the charms and trappings of our happy indulgence that language both need
the fruits of my barren ingenuity. Thing is, indeed, difficult, for in time like this, that
everywhere and in all the languages ??of Europe are sprouting works imagination, enlightened
mill daughters, who strive to take a bay leaf in such a rough path to pure being beaten and
tired, it must be attributed before to set good Fortunately, not a deliberate result of the
talent and studio, creating, writing for such style, which deserves the honor of reading. But
not everything that is written is written with the one studied in order to maintain public attention,
with the aim of creating in the other new sensations, itching to be remarkable, to be made
to look like window where flying rocket shoots. No, my friend, is written by fever, sickness,
is written also for comfort, for relief, and true remedy. Who can explain which of the two
drives should refer these inspirations are going to read? "Not who can ever amidst the storms
of life, explained, to understand himself, to realize the springs have been moved to his mind,
or the ideas that have dominated their inspirations? No, my friend. You, however, reading these
my fantasies born in a land of orange blossoms in a country of dreams and memories, portraying
the misadventures of a hapless nation, the misfortunes of characters brought high unless, death,
and the contempt for contempt and cruelty of bad luck, you'll know to distinguish fact from
fiction, what are memories distant than they are echoes of immediate sensations, impressions perhaps
throbbing yet. Your wisdom to know the distinction, and still a slight sign of approval yours,
a single movement of sympathy from your heart, fill mine and leisure
certain lineage of thanks, I refers to the feeling of glory and the
future.

       

THE SOLITARY

* * * * *

    
    CHRISTIANS AND MOORS
    
    NOVEL HURT

    

CHAPTER ONE

Other natural declared their strange and strange things by construction, and perpetuated themselves
for a clear in memory copy of the letters, giving each its measure as judges of fame and witnesses
of the truth.

LUIS OF MARBLE.

Fresh and peaceful autumn evening was, and how happy Sunday after vespers, and happy Recreation
poured back in the arena and suburbs of the place a certain rustic inhabitants village, whose
name, if not aim now is to do little to the purpose of history we are telling. Suffice it to
say that this place was well established as the Andalusia, to know
that he was rich, and that you did not but a short distance from the
city of Ronda, I enjoyed the most picturesque site and more rustic
approach that can entice the They cling eyes the scenes of cliffs,
springs and freshness.

These good people, say, a rose to the highest
peaks of the mountains, to amuse eyes on the quiet plains of the sea,
there seemed to far, others are coming through between both trees
and fruit orchard and garden as close to the village, and here and
there pomegranate or groups of young men young boys amused themselves
in playing the mall and pulling the bar, or painted kites released
into the air with the greatest joy in the world