 And your father?

- I am Valdés, I have no father.

- That's better,
"said Mrs. reconsidering.

- Daddy, Daddy, said most of the girls
went to a gentleman who was leaning on a couch to the right of the
podium.

Dad, you've seen a lovely little?

- Ya, ya, the father replied almost without turning his head. Leave her alone. But they went out
those words from his lips, he noticed Cecilia, and between admiration,
and Reid said:

- Ay! I know the man who is lying there.

This, under the hands, with which already shaded forehead, he looked fierce, which were painted
her temper and anger. Then he rose and left the room without another
word.

Is indeed strange that only this man did not feel sympathy for the lovely street.

- "So you have no father or mother? Turned to ask the good lady, if no one is concerned by the
previous scene. And how do you live? Who do you live?

Are you the daughter of the earth or air?

- Holy Mother! cried the girl bending her head over his right shoulder and looking intently
to their questions. Oh, Jesus! What people so curious! I live with my grandmother, who is a very
good old lady, who loves me and lets me do whatever I want. My mother died a long time y. .. my
father. I do not know more or ask me more.

While girls want to ask more questions, and learn other details about of life and relatives of Cecilia,
but, on the one hand, his father had told them to leave her in peace, and, secondly, his mother,
unable to control his chagrin, he indicated by a gesture Significantly, it was time to come out
of there so impudent wench. Filled with gifts and farewell finally, Cecilia, went through the
back hallway on the street, a seasoning that came down from the high a young man in summer attire,
ie shorts Saudi sucks and who just saw her recognized her and told
from the top:

- Cecilia, ah, Cecilia!

Hey, look.

She, not containing the passage, but still staring at him and cried, telling him to front door:
Cuica! Cuica! And while opening the right hand, put his finger thumb on the tip of the nose and
moved the other very quickly. That is a fun way they often do kids in our streets, as saying:
Ah! Fooled you! Ah! I escaped from your nonsense.

It is not referring here to the scene following the departure of the girl in that house. Mr. and the
lady can say that no further mention of his name. The ladies, on the contrary, even when turned
to the window to see and greet their friends, who spent the ride back in luxurious carriages,
did not stop talking about Cecilia and repeating his name, helping
then the older brother who knew her and was often with her when she
went to the father's Latin class Morales, opposite the convent of
Santa Teresa.

In the meantime the girl, following in the street below came to the square of Santa Catalina,
whose embankment, which runs across the front, went up by leaps, and then fell to the street
Avocado by a concrete staircase. Once there, he went right, though cautious, immediately to
the corner house occupied by a tavern. Not touched or stopped before the door, but gently pushed
the blade of the right or male, which was subject with an average iron shot on the ground. He
had been with vermilion paint that door but washed by rain, sun and time, no dark spots left
but around head of the nails and the boards deep moldings. The window, which mirror was high,
only had three or four balusters, had lost the original painting, bathroom light was left with
a lead color. As far inland, its appearance was meanest, if possible, than abroad. It consisted
of a small room divided by a screen for form a bedroom whose door was precisely toward the
street, and one on the right narrow exit to the yard and not longer than the back of the house.
To the left of the entry and the height of a rod, had a hole in the dividing wall, as a niche,
whose background was a whole body pain Mother, although very small, with a sword of fire across
his chest from side to side. Lit day and night so strange Painting two butterflies, that is,
two burners with its corresponding wick, floating in three parts of water and oil, regular glasses
into glass. A garland of all artificial flowers and pieces of gold and silver cardboard, soiled,
faded and dusty adorned the altar. And all around, the walls, on the screen and behind the doors and
windows large number of signs, for example Holy Mother! The Grace of God be in this house! Viva Jesus!
Viva Maria! Viva Grace and Sin dies! With many of the sort, that I must not repeat them. The prints,
no box, glued to the walls with wafers or paste, were more numerous than the signs, all saints,
printed by the printer Bologna [6] on plain paper and collected at the hands of the applicants
of the monasteries in return for alms or purchased at the door of the churches in the holidays.

Very little down to the furniture, but in his littleness and debris
that had been known better times when new.

The more palatable of the house was a seat of Campeche, and lame, with big ears and rickety.
Agregábanse three or four chairs with seat and cedar cowhide back in the same style, strong, solid
and ancient. Matched with them a corner of the wood itself, whose feet were carved in the
form of hoof satyr molded and vine leaves.

Despite the narrowness of this hostel was a sleepy cat, several chickens
and pigeons, certainly very familiar with only two human hosts, as
they came and went, jumping on the backs of chairs, meowed, cooing
and cackling without consideration or fear.

On one side of the room was a loft bed, oblong, who was always of receipt as it was of rawhide,
the hardness of the softened a featherbed covered perennially with a quilt of a thousand and one pieces
or inlay. The twisted columns, instead of curtains, held San Blas, scapulars, crosses, cardboard,
glass stones and blessed palms of Palm Sunday many years ago.

In reality this was not home but gave shelter to about two, because, outside the two mentioned
parts, had no more comfort or relief that the court said, where he was the kitchen, the better,
fireplace, wooden drawer full of ashes, mounted on four uprights
and protected from rain by a kind of forward bedside.

We stopped in both description of the shack where Cecilia came, because their imagination stop
the benign reader in contrast, would offer a girl so beautiful, overflowing life and youth, in
the midst of antique, that it seemed that heaven had placed there to say all the time ear: - Child,
includes what you will and be more sane.

But we are confident that this was the least she thought, and then double reason As mattered most
felt they did not get a certain person who, back in chair, in front of the niche, seemed to
pray or sleep.

However, that he should put more touch the rogue in the way of settling the plant, could not
do so callandito not hear her and distinctly felt the old, whose ears were very fine, and then
do not read or asleep but read, take a bow, in a small book of prayers parchment-lined.

- Hello! he said looking sideways over perfectly round rings of glasses, enhorquilladas at
the tip of the nose, by way of a boy to the back of a horse Hello
Miss! "Here's you? Huh? Great!

Are these times come to seek the blessing his grandmother? (Because the girl was coming with
his arms crossed.) Where have you been up to Now, a good piece? (They had played and the prayers.)
Linda was to go for the oils! And suddenly throwing hand, in which event he dropped the book and
were afraid the cat who blinked often sitting in a chair, pigeons and chickens. Come hither,
spirit, she added, butterfly wingless sheep without a flock of wild stocks; see, I have to figure
out where you've been up to these hours. What, you have no king nor Roque govern you, nor Pope excommunicate
you? Where One has seen that? Do not you have more life than running the streets? Can not find anyone
with you? I will make you understand that some people can. I was to see!

Cecilia, far from being frightened or run away, with much laughter burst into the arms of bad-tempered
grunting and grandmother, and to tie his tongue, he gave as he had
been given the where girls had been.

CHAPTER III

     Damn old That the
      girls badly Crazy about fables.

ZORRILLA

More
      flattery and cunning of which fit in a girl her age, Cecilia hugged
and kissed his grandmother, whom he named Chepilla (Josefa capricious
alteration), so usually called.

         That was enough to appease their anger, and nothing in it that surprising
because, as we shall see, had been so unhappy woman, felt such a need
to be loved by the only person that cared about the world, to maintain
reliability the granddaughter, had been like to extend his own martyrdom.

Of course, sealed his lips at once, and he missed another thing to contemplate, well and just
before had been contemplating the sweet face of Mary, in earnest prayer.

While the girl clasped at the waist to the old with shapely arms and leaned beautiful head
on his chest, similar to the flower that blossoms in a dry stem and leaves and fragrance enjoys
life with death itself, the figure was more sign Josefa strange and ugly than it was naturally.
Her face itself was opposed to the rest of body. Whether it was because he used to take the hair
back, and because it took nature, the truth is that it looked too
wide forehead, big nose, blunt sharp chin, and sunken eye sockets.

This gave expression to his face grimly, not easy to overlook the less informed observer.
Morbidity was still in her arms, and his hands could be described as cute. But the most notable
of his face were his eyes large, dark and penetrating remnants of a faction that had been pleasant,
disharmony now by premature aging.

Mulata of origin, their color was copper, and over the years and wrinkles had become sunburnt,
or slanted, to avail ourselves of the common expression that is designated in Cuba to a mulatto
child and black, or vice versa. Could be 60 years old but looks older, because it began to bleach
the hair, something that people of color tends to happen later than in the Caucasian. The mood
disorders face first annihilate the body mortal man. As we shall see later, Christian resignation,
the work of his faith in God, grass that finally fed his spirit in
the long hours devoted to prayer and meditation only had remained
standing against the onslaught of his wretched fate.

Moreover, with the sad conviction of which a measured look at his past and his future, and what
should and could expect from his granddaughter, beautiful flowers thrown in the middle of the
public square for be trodden down of the first passer-by, and in the last third of your life with
regrets the past, before anger, he realized that he played to appease the wrath of their invisible
judge and sought quiet moments, when sounded postrimera meantime.

In one in which our narrative surprises, although it had met 80 of its life, have believed that he
had lived a very short time if they did their last moments and left behind yes to the helpless
young granddaughter in the world, and she was not as attend the outcome of a drama in which
she, rather reluctantly, without being the heroine, represented, for some time, role important.
Sign off the character of Joseph, naturally irascible, the rule of conduct that has been said
before, as a means of achieving the forgiveness of his own faults, it is easy understand why, but
Cecilia just mad because she was late, and other many previous failures,
he was willing to exonerate rather than scolding.

Then as she came with his flattery, rather than steal the body, it's served as a pretext plausible
to be confirmed in their purpose. By virtue thereof, promptly changing the tone and appearance,
contented himself with asking for a second time where he had been.

- Me? repeated the girl supporting both elbows on the knees of my grandmother and playing with scapulars
hung from her neck. Me? In the house of some very pretty girls that I were passed and they called
me. There was a fat lady sitting in an armchair, I asked what my name was me and how my mother
was called, and who was my father, and where I lived ...

- Jesus! Jesus! said Josefa crossing sign.

- Ay! continued the girl without considering the grandmother. What people so inquisitive! Did
not know the market as one of those girls wanted me to cut hair to make a cap? Yes, sir. But
I stretched forth.

- See You evil spirit, and where to climb! she cried as if speaking
grandmother itself.

- And if not for a man, went on Cecilia, who
was lying on the couch, and scolded the girls and told them to let
me still and then went to his room Bravissimo ... Does your mercy
do not know who is he, Grandma?

I've seen him talk to his mercy sometimes beyond to Paula, when we go to church. Yes, yes, he
is, I have no doubt. And I remember now that is the same each time I find on the street tells
me street, lost, urchin and many things.

Ah! He says he sent the soldiers to take me and take me to jail. How do I know more! I have
much fear of that man.

It must be very nagging!

- Girl! Girl! hoarsely exclaimed the old lady get away from his chest and looking at her Fixed
a strange way, more angry than surprised. But as if a serious thought occurs or a painful memory
and between warn and advise, what perhaps amounted to shine what you should be ignorant life,
his spirit sad struggle in a sea of ??doubt granddaughter surprised to suddenly his lips sealed.
Gradually the high sea was serene disheveled, vanished one after
the other clouds huddled at the horizon naturally dark, and turning
to shake the girl in her bare arms, said with all the sweetness he
could give his voice hoarse naturally, calmly that he could take his
face:

- Cecilia!
