 

Don Juan slept that evening, and on a couch in the living room, forced the Spanish siesta rancid,
and awoke surrounded by henchmen, to the summons to him by the mayor.

- For the king! Take your worship prisoner.

The Vizcaya he picked up a knife from his belt Albacete and fell on the mayor and his delegation,
which left him terrified out to the courtyard. More Güerequeque, who had been a lookout at the
front door, looking haggard and battered their partners, took off his coat and threw it with
astonishing rapidity over the head of the offender, who stumbled and fell to the ground, then
the whole pack fell over the fallen, as he is a longstanding practice
the world and were strongly linked with him in the court prison, located
on the street Fish.

- What things so beautiful - muttered Don Rodrigo
on the way - we must see the Day of Judgement in the valley of Jehoshaphat!

Wise without wisdom, honest without honor, each weight back pocket to its rightful owner, and
many children encontradizos the true father to father. Some will go to hack a ruin. What bahorrina,
Lord, what bahorrina! Well I guessed that This Don Juan was blessed face and cat's claw ...
Nothing! Al Capone is cock descañonarlo; that as the song says:

Gentle twisting tree but can be put right, but not enough strength
in acquiring human power.

Three months later, Juan de Villegas, who previously received two hundred lashes by hand executioner's
going on leash with other criminals to the prison of Chagres, convicted and confessed the crime
of defrauding the royal treasury, reagravado with forgery of the signature the Viceroy and
resistance to justice.

When the Viceroy Conde de Castellar, who at that time was forty-six, came to Lima, brought in
his company's own employees who had bought their positions in court, Don Juan de Villegas. During
the trip had the opportunity to attend the treatment of the Viceroy, who took some love and sometimes
invited him to dinner at the palace ... But I realize I'm talking about the viceroy without
having presented in the form to my readers.

We then share knowledge excellence.

II

Don Baltasar de la Cueva, Count of Castellar and Villa-Alonso, M. de Malagon, Lord Viso villas,
Paracuellos, Fuente el Fresno, Porcuna and Benarfases, a native of Madrid, second son of the Duke
of Alburquerque, a knight of Santiago, sheriff perpetual city ??of
Toro, Castilla and twenty alfaqueque viceroy of Peru, entered Lima
on August 15 1674, boasting - says a historian - in mules richly dressed
the opulence used to make other viceroys.

The people thought, and thought wisely, Don Baltasar not come towards achievements and huge estates,
but in search of honor and welcomed him with keen enthusiasm.

His first administrative acts was to organize the fleet in anticipation of pirate attacks, artillery
Valparaiso, Arica fortify, Guayaquil and Panama, and repair the walls of Callao while increasing its
garrison.

In civil and religious order gave a very wise provisions.

Gave respectability the courts, was jealous guardian of the board, holding serious quarrel
with the Archbishop; reformed the University, created funds to support
the hospital in Santa Ana, and enacted ordinances to moderate luxury
cars and crowds, to avoid the challenges and improve other lines of
police.

In the Treasury made a number of economies in public spending,
punished with the utmost rigor abuses of the magistrates, and performed
thorough inspection of the real boxes