 It is very difficult to uproot a fondness for many years, and this conviction was
what more desperate to Juanito. He felt ashamed for having such a mother and worship, without
But with the sweet blindness of love.

- Hey ...! Aside!

Juanito instinctively jumped back, feeling in his face two burning snort horses. He had reached the
entrance to the cemetery, and those beasts that almost jacos trampling him were bony, unfriendly
and unhealthy that pulled the hearse.

The grim conductor, with its black livery, filthy, over, spraying of insulting the distracted and
threatening him with his whip.

Juanito could barely see him. His eyes were fixed on the white and gold coffin that rocked with
the rattle of the wheels, leaving in its memory the impression of a small cloud crossed by sunlight.

It
should also could you be right there. Better than in the cells before watched with envy. The
silence forever the bitter satisfaction of not being, the grand monotony of eternity free from
all corruption. Why was not he in that box? Why had not fallen Four years earlier, when he
suffered a concussion pneumonia got your whole family? At least have died believing in his mother,
and as a gesture would have comforted a tear the woman.

But now he was alone. Single die, the only thing that was strengthened certainty of death
as a solution to their woes.

The face of a girl leaning out the window of one of the carriages of the procession seemed to change
the course of their ideas. No, it was madness to seek death. If I had not known at Tonic, could
accept such a desperate resolution, but being loved by her, it was crazy. There was still a remedy.
A portion of its capital had given to Don Ramón Morte, not to play Exchange, but for the purchase
of government securities. Sell, even if a loss, the secure part of its capital would pay the outstanding
debts he had contracted to save his mother, and what remains would be set modestly, was the
owner of the Three Roses or a small shop, marrying at once with Tonic.
This was the real solution.

Nothing to search millions, the lesson had been hard. Merchant routine and phlegmatic, good
virtuous husband and father, it was happiness, which he had ambitions for the future.

And when more enthusiastically forjábase the patriarchal illusion of tranquility, a whistle
strident tore the air, as if Mephistopheles, from the clouds, answered with his laughter Squeaky
the beautiful plans of domestic virtue. Juanito, while walking, awoke from strange sleepwalking
that made him run around the city, stirred every minute for the most
diverse thoughts.

Perfilábase front of him over the sky of pale blue square de Toros, with its outline of the Roman
circus. She and the boy was the level crossing the railway, which began to beat, throwing bellows,
a beast of iron.

Juanito saw himself arrested by the string just
lay the linesman. This obstacle seemed irritate. He felt within himself
again that mysterious companion who had guided the his living room
to make the terrible discovery