 

APOLLO-BAMBA [1].

The town of Apollo, today capital of the province, was founded about the middle of last century
by Franciscan missionaries, who met at that point to the natives
of the nation Apollos, and formed a mission, which having been stuck
in the year 1800 to the other neighboring towns people came to compose
the province of Caupolican.

Apollo is situated in the center of a plain, slightly wavy and plant cover grasses. This plain,
bounded on the south by mountains to the valleys and their corners These are, give a very picturesque,
is five to six miles wide, and its length extends from north to south, about twelve to fourteen,
appearing one oblong. Al this is raised, similar to a wall, a large mountain that runs from north to
south, and to that of their great elevation has been called Altuncama. There is a low hill west, filed
between Apollo and the plains of Santa Catalina which come to occupy the west and southwest. The
Last Valley horizontal, which is twelve miles long on five wide, is covered part of grasslands, and
Tupili crosses the river, whose banks are adorned widths and thick forests, which so contrasted
with the rest satin, they seem to have been planted by human hands.

The village consists of three distinct groups. The first is located before moving the river, and consists
of scattered houses: in this group, called the bias of the Concepcion, is where they are established
merchants of all kinds of fruit, and whom the native inhabitants are in their particular language
Matagua name, ie outsiders. The second group located in the center and on a slight hill of red
clay is on the other side of the river, and contains the town hall, parish church and convent
of the Franciscans, whose facade that faces east, overlooking a square in which the sides
north and south are composed of several buildings, and the eastern border to the convent, a number
of houses inhabited by indigenous people: these houses, each of which has a single door and
about fifteen to twenty yards long, are placed on the hill an amphitheater, so that from the convent
is found all that happens inside of them. Such was the manner in which the Franciscans had provisions
in order to be at the sight of all the steps of the Indians, and to ensure their actions. At that time,
traders who came to the province, were forced to stay in the convent make their exchanges in the
presence of the religious. A creek separates this second part, the third group that is located
on the path of Aten, and arranged in the same order we have just seen in that.

Apollo temperature is pleasant and healthy, but let their free access plains to all the winds,
the air becomes drier than in Santa Cruz. There are grown the same fruits than in other districts,
but coca is the only important object of trade barter. Also there in Apollo as two thousand
to two thousand five hundred head of livestock, and its inhabitants were a little more industrious
and neat, would have certainly all kinds of goods in abundance. A single fact will suffice to justify
this assertion, as regards to the great procreation of the stock. An Indian named Pedro Chambi,
had met with the product fifteen cows their industry, dedicated to breeding as carefully then,
so came to multiply, it was the large number sold by him while he lived, still left in 1828,
at the end of his days, like a thousand heads. It is seen that with some care because the plains
and could easily be covered hills of livestock, both cattle and sheep, and even perhaps to
equine. It would be equally possible that Altuncama mountains, in view of his elevation, produjesen
vines and potatoes.

The draw-modified hulls some way to be both of these people, teaching them to estimate the positive
value of things, and giving an idea of ??money. For trade in this particular have come to
know too many other objects, they were entirely ignored, and in whose possession they enjoy
today's comforts. If I had continued this trade, there is no doubt that the inhabitants of Apollo
would already well advanced in the way of a civilization, fighting relentlessly against those
who have become directors of these Indians, under the stupid pretext the business relationship
with the foreigners corrupting their morals. Although this can be verified sometimes, why not
have to deny the immense advantages which must necessarily bring get the frequency of these relationships.
The nature of these people, indigenous people all Apollos them in the nation, whose number does
not pass two thousand seven hundred and seventy-five is the most peaceful, and gentle, pleasure-loving,
looking at all the fun. The numerous festivals of Christianity, yet increased local usage,
provided they Used frequently meet to give herself the happy and playful danses, stimulated
by repeated libations of brandy, which misused by some to be deprived of reason. Such is the way go
through life without thinking of dealing, or in their future, nor in that of their children, probably
relying on the natural wealth of the country, whose products are sufficient to satisfaction of their
needs. With a lively and light, have a lot of skill to imitate as they show, so we gather all
the qualities that make them susceptible of civilized, but soon, maybe the same indigenous
Andean nations. Lack only to enable it to carry out some benevolent men, stripped of their interests
particular, want to devote to the development of intellectual faculties of these Indians and his social
education, moral governor and physically.

Apollo southeast of the town of Aten, a distance of nine miles per itinerary following:

Leagues.

                                                        Leaving Apollo, beat about the plain-Chico Bridge.

1

From here to Puente Grande. 2

And to arrive at Pampa-Tupili. 3

Go up the slope after Chímasacro-Large, 1

Then go down, it and take
the slope to Chímasacro-Chico.

1

                                                        
                                                     And he finally goes to Athens.

1

-------- TOTAL 9

SANTA CRUZ VALLEY AMENO.

Its position has made him delightful to Santa-Cruz deserve the nickname of Valle Ameno. Nothing indeed
could be more charming, more picturesque and lively than their surroundings, or that it is more
peaceful and cheerful your home. Located on a plain, on a slope scarcely perceptible leaning
to the south, and at the foot of a conical hill, this village is also surrounded by low hills,
but they will gradually rising towards the north to reach higher
to form mountains, which are topped with elegant palm trees whose
foliage mingles with the drinks giant tree more robust.

The contrast presented plains with hills covered with exquisite and varied vegetation, stream
Santa-Cruz River that runs through all of this table, scattering a healthy freshness, attends all in
order to make this place more enjoyable point of the province.

Although small, it contains only nine hundred forty-one inhabitants, some of them nation of
Apollo, the parish of Santa Cruz is very neat, and looking at its beautiful contours, easily
divert attention from the irregularity of its streets and buildings. Field surrounding it produces
in abundance all the fruits of the torrid zone, so their people are all farmers, not only collect
enough for their consumption, but they also do some trade with their abundance, for which
they put to air cure the sun the fruits of banana, cut into long strips or slices, that after
of dried apricots are transformed into eSCelente. Also prepare and coca snuff, and all these
products come to serve them to operate their exchanges, for want of money in coins, has not
yet entered it into circulation. Are active as the inhabitants of Santa Cruz in the breeding
of cattle, which is achieved with much advantage over the hills. There are times when actively
engaged in the collection of the husk, forest rover of the surrounding mountains, but found these
and so destroyed, which at present are required to run ten or twelve miles to get to find
it.

With regard to fishing and to the hunting this region is as abundant as the Pata, and natural products
are entirely the same: it has been found, however, in the forests of Santa Cruz, countless woods
of the finest cabinetry and beautiful, such as guava, granadillo, etc.

In short, if the population wanted to take advantage of all resources is surrounded, engaging more
actively, to the raising of livestock, agriculture within the land so fertile and where nature gives
you full hands treasures, to the judicious EXTRACTION graduated from the chaff and tillage, in
short, mines of gold and lead, said be in the mountains of Santa Clara, no doubt it would get
double their riches, but to this would be overcome first the natural
apathy, which leads to these indigenous people to not work but the
very measured to obtain the things necessary to existence.

Truth is also it was necessary to move and activate your ambition, a larger population and markets
exportation of more outstretched.

Santa-Cruz was a very safe place until the year 1830, which already began to feel some diseases,
hitherto unknown, and vigorously attacking the inhabitants. Today on day intermittent fevers
have settled there his domain. Some people have believed that came from this in the introduction
of trees in the hot valleys [1], but according to my observations on the province of Valle Grande
[2], I think such a change is rather due to deforestation caused by fires, where residents are
accustomed to promote each year with the aim of renewing the grass of the plains and hills. The fact
is that many places, very healthy in the past, are at present invaded by this pest destructive,
which is increasing in proportion as it extends clearing.

It is therefore the duty of the government taking a wise move to cut the progress of such
evil, and improve where possible tainted sites.

                                                         

Santa-Cruz is located west-southwest of Apollo Bamba.

To come to this place will go five leagues by the following schedule:

Leagues.

Go

up the hill of Santa Teresa. 1

                                                   He gets after it, until Huilipisa.

1

And it follows then by a plain to Bacqueria. 1

Where you have to walk for a ground well, until they came to Apollo. 2

TOTAL 5

ATEN.

This town, old mission of the Franciscans, is located amidst mountains, a hollow pretty equal, and their
houses, though regular, are scattered. The climate is hot and humid, very healthy therefore,
in spite of the rain that falls there frequently. Its culture, its production and trade are
of the same nature as in Apollo críanse also some cattle in the grassy plains of Tupili.

The number of inhabitants reaches, more or less one thousand thirty-three; these Indians belong to
a nation different from the Apollo, and speak the language Tacana, perhaps one of the most shocking
and hard, as well as the most guttural of America. His character, similar language, is irascible,
stubborn, full of arrogance, and little merry, are nevertheless more inclined to work than Apollos,
especially to agriculture and to scrutinizing raids within the forests. Each individual of this
population, as we have said elsewhere hand, is obliged to build his
own, without help from others, the house has later living with his
family, if it comes to miss the practice, probably conserved from
its savage state, is filled with shame, stripping the dignity of man.

Lavish in the extreme and friends of the show, and always longing to purchase ornaments to
spruce lucid they and their wives, no jobs, painful as they are, they are not willing to take To
obtain such satisfaction. Preferred over all other glasses and silverware, as an ornament
to place on their desks, or the strange dress, covered in gallons
embroidery and shiny, with which to go up to the processions of the
Catholic religion trying to distinguish itself from others by the
brilliance and uniqueness of such trappings.

The features of the Athenians are quite rough, with no difference in this between both sexes
have short, flat nose, too swarthy complexion, and almost all are dotted with white spots on the
body and face, helping them to look very strange.

An episode in the history of the province, particularly to Aten, will know the nature of their inhabitants
[1]. In 1811, in consequence of having been defeated by the Spanish detachment patriot army, which
under the command of General Pinelo was heading towards Cuzco La-Paz, Dr. Doll, chief secretary
and church that much credit, he took refuge with some other officers and patriots Larecaja Valley,
where he managed to influence in crowds to revolt against the Spanish people. After a long
and bitter struggle, after having fought with heroic courage in the cause of freedom and independence,
these improvised soldiers having been finally defeated by the battle-hardened troops and ordered
of the Spanish, saw himself forced to leave Larecaja Dolls, where he went, with some of their
own, by the river Iuyo to Aten. Immediately the Indians revolted and managed Athenians Apollo
seize them. The Spanish, who lost sight of him, soon soon send troops to fight. Captain D. Agustin
Gamarra was commissioned for this company; and having come to win every game to the Patriots, so
inferior in number, so little hardened, and entirely devoid of weapons, was ready for decision-Aten,
which was to crown his triumph. Twelve Athenians, led by Captain Pariaman unable stand in the
open field to a hundred soldiers to five hundred regular troops and archers, were ambushed
at the distance of a league from the village, in a dense forest [2]
which is situated on a hill there resolved to die rather than surrender
to the enemy.

After a two-hour battle, Pariaman Captain was the only one who came to save, and Gamarra, that
he was master of the field, following the custom of the Spanish, began to punish the most egregious
manner to all those he supposed to have taken up arms to join the patriot army.

Persecution increasing day by day, and each time with more rigor, an Indian named Joseph Pacha,
who was one of the most committed, proposed twenty or thirty families to abandon their homes to go
to find the best kept quiet in the forest. The migrant population away because, driven by
Pacha, looking for a venue where she could not get to be discovered; and having crossed the desert,
finally stopped in a ravine, to which he gave Irimo name: in this place, situated about twelve
or fourteen miles east of Athens, remained These Indians more than seven years without being
could discover. As the wary Pacha had Great care had to take whatever steps are necessary,
nothing was missing from the new colony. To planted cotton dress, and while men were engaged
in hunting and clearing of land, the women wove and took care of housework. Pacha, which is head
of the colony was established a very strict internal police, distributing
jobs depending on age and gender, and all work was done in common,
alternating so that one day dealing with the culture, the next went
to the game, and vice versa; so that all products were distributed
equally, as if there were more than one family.

In order not to renounce the Catholic religion, the inhabitants of this small republic built
a chapel, placing in it some images of saints, took care to bring speakers it also in their
migration. Pacha, already invested with civil powers, wanted to reunite to them the performance
of religious duties: he was the one who baptized, who sanctified marriages and burying the dead,
being at once the priest, the judge and the legislator colony. Among the stringent measures taken
by him, to avoid detection, had dictated a law which commanded them to be buried alive all those
who, under any pretext, tended to stay in touch with the people of Athens, so I could live
ignored for so long, no one would be so reckless and daring to break a law this nature, and whose
violation was bringing in so horrible after consequences.

There was, however, a circumstance that came to them after overdrawn.

It happened that a girl of thirteen years old, daughter of Manuel Cito, whose family was composed
of his wife and this one girl, having often heard of savory taste that gives salt to food, he conceived
the desire, and with this project, to procure the substance. Without their parents gird escapóse
the hamlet and taking the direction of Athens, arrived to this village, where, unseen, was
introduced in an isolated house, and seizing all salt could be found, returned to Irimo with
the proceeds of their theft. During his absence, that was three days, the caretaker boss stopped
perceiving the lack of girl practicing thousand pesquizas to know of his whereabouts, and
urging parents to closely to tell him what was hers. In the midst of these investigations are
featuring the young fugitive, and the content of their cargo is discovered that came from Athens,
where, on the other hand, she confessed to state. Pacha immediately sent to the punished to
the full rigor of the law, but at the time of execution, all the inhabitants gathered implored
his grace with such request, and the poor girl had so many protests that finally the head Gave
forgiveness. Six or seven months, entirely forgotten that he had escaped death tempted a second
excursions for the same purpose, and having done all the spy Pacha directions with strict orders
to apply the terrible punishment decreed for him, was pinned Four days later, and neither tears, nor
could soften his despair at his captors, incontinently that posed
by the horrendous ordeal of being buried alive.

The unhappy parents, overwhelmed with horror to the news of such an event, abruptly fled of Irimo,
and went to Aten to complain to the judge the awful punishment which had just suffered its daughter
thereby discovered the mansion in Pacha. Immediately ordered the authority apprehends this, which was
made so, you drove to La-Paz for trial but it took so long to execute
him, that in 1823, when the city fell to the Patriots, Pacha was seen
covered by a general pardon and could then return to his country.

Irimo still exists, and is composed of the same families, subject
to the jurisdiction this Aten civil and ecclesiastical.

Its inhabitants, the great fertility of the land enjoy all the comforts of life, under a mild,
in a delightful position.

The waters of the river to meet the Aten are Mapiri, a tributary of the Beni: at Moreover, this
is the only power center in the province that does not address the Tuyche.

PEOPLES PARTY OR SMALL INTERIOR.

Under this denomination usually meet people from inside, such as San-Jose of Chupiamonas, Tumupaza,
Cavinas Isiamas and separated all of them, vast deserts, from those just discussed. I will
therefore also describe these people, old missions, also founded, as stated above, by the Franciscan
Fathers.

SAN-JOSE DE CHUPIAMONAS.

Coming to the northeast of Apollo, and going through horrible roads full of dangers of all kinds,
in the middle of a desert without end, and after thirty-eight leagues a march excruciating,
it finally comes to St. Joseph of Chupiamonas, which takes its name a river whose waters are
reddish to meet, not far from there, the river Tuyche.

The people composed of seventy-three Indians, all similar to the Athenians, who speak the same
language, is located near the confluence of the said river which forms the Tuyche, which is so wide
at that point, it is necessary to pass it on rafts, so that people are very helpful to the travelers
and merchants, dealing in a band pass of river to the other. Because so little number of its inhabitants,
had intended to gather this population with that of Aten, but the just claims of the dealers
have made retained as an indispensable item for trade.

The San-Jose temperature is very warm, but why is there any way know diseases: their abode can
not be more pleasant, it seems that nature had pleased to pour out his gifts in uncivilized
places, with a bounty worth the promised land. The foreigner who comes to Saint Joseph is stunned
with admiration at the sight a vegetation so beautiful, and the infinite variety of fruits that abound
there. Indeed its forests offered all over the vanilla, balsam oil, Recinos, aromatic bark, gums,
wax and honey and many medicinal plants. There spontaneously Críanse the most exquisite fruits,
and including cocoa, which grows wild without being planted by bear
abundant crops everywhere.

The game offers prodigious amount of birds and quadrupeds: among
these may be mentioned the large beast, the bear-ant, the parrot-light
many deer and wild boar, and a kind of very little pigs, called on
the country Quebo-queres.

The Tuyche also abounds in fish. Finally, this extraordinarily fertile soil produces rice, maize,
cassava, peanuts, bananas, pineapples, cotton and sugarcane-sweet, but all of these productions
serve only for the consumption of the population, and in no way to trade.

TUMUPAZA.

Twelve miles northeast of San-Jose, on a small rocky hill composed of whitish and in the middle of
a horizontal field, covered with small forests or grasslands, is
old mission located Tumupaza [1], converted to this in a parish.

When the months of August, September and October, up one on the hills, warnings to the distance,
on many different points, the smoke produced no doubt by the fires of the savages, which unknown
until today live in such places as to Tumupaza surrounding fertile. This parish, It consists
of eight hundred-eighty-five souls, gathers, in regard to their crop productions and natural,
absolutely the same circumstances as St. Joseph.
These Indians, belonging to the nation tacana are well made and elegant
figure, have black hair and very fine, regular face and a pale white
complexion, her face is pleasant and expressive, and everything in
them the joy announces. Are otherwise very plain: all your dress is
a robe made of cotton fabric, which falls to them knees, and he has
only half sleeves, are always bare, and no cover head