 If anyone refused to obey such demands
appeared cleared fields, crops lost, and could even raise half timeless night just to escape the
thatched roof was coming down in flames and choking on its smoke foul.

Gafarró, which was the best boy in the garden planted Ruzafa, swore discovered, and spent ambushed
at night in cañares, roaming the paths, with the shotgun on his arm, but One morning he was
found in a ditch with the belly pierced and broken head ... and guess who gave you.

Even the Valencia papers spoke of what happened in the garden, where at dusk closing the barracks
and there was a panic selfish, seeking each his salvation, forgetting neighbor. And all this,
Uncle Batiste, the mayor of that district of the garden, casting rays by mouth every time the authorities,
who respected him as a potential electoral hablábanle the matter and ensuring that he and his trusty
bailiff, the Sigrid, were sufficient to eliminate that calamity.

Despite this, we felt did not intend to go to the mayor. Why? I did not want to hear in vain bravado
and lies.

The truth was, they asked forty dollars, and if not let them in the oven will burn your hut,
hut that he looked like a child and near miss, with its walls dazzling white, the black cap
of straw with little crosses at the ends, windows blue, the vine over the door as green lattice, which
filtered the sun with palpitations Live Gold, the clumps of geraniums and dompedro orlando housing,
restrained by a fence cane, and beyond the old fig tree furnace, mud-brick, round and flat
like a swarm of Africa. That was all her fortune, the nest that was home to the most beloved: his
wife, three kids, the couple of old nags, faithful companions in the daily battle for bread, and
pink and white cow that was every morning through the streets of the city up people with their
sad jangle and letting out their real six udders always swollen.

Much had to scratch the four lumps from his great-grandfather came watering all family with sweat
and blood, to join the handful of drives that kept buried in a pot under the bed! Then it was left
boot forty dollars! ... He was a man of peace; entire garden could meet him. Squabbles or irrigation,
or visits to the tavern, or shotgun nice to miss her. Work hard for the three brats Pepeta and was
his only hobby; but because they wanted to rob, know defense. Christ!