 Among the clergy, which was very large, came the most famous of the vicarage in dirge,
and therefore did not miss the pastor of Zarzaleda, which was a very specialized admired,
and not without reason as the basis for the Dies Irae chant with his tenor voice and vibrant, to put
the willies the faithful move harder, and also attended These pastors many of his parishioners,
not related or a personal affinity with the deceased, were ardent admirers of his good name.
But this was not contingent, or so numerous nor noise espelurciadas moved their horses in
the streets of Instead, what most struck him, but another contingent, the lords who were coming
to the house for all walks of the surrounding mountains. Chisco and Pito Salces helped dismantle
that brought the footman, who were the most, and took over their horses and Don Pedro Nolasco
Neluco met them on the ladder and the presented to me after the door of the Hall, from which
led to my cabinet who had returned to headquarters for the day, stage or hall of honor, and
coffee table which had a feast of liqueur wines and sponge fingers, with which provided as
soon as concluded greetings and courtesies of heading, without prejudice to arrive after Mari
Pepa or daughter, well dressed and seasoned and holiday, even mournful, to offer something
more substantial, if they were fasting, such as milk, broth or chocolate ... or lean ham with
eggs, but all copeja opted for wine and biscuits, "reserving then ...». "After" was the lunch, the
funeral ended.

For all those gentlemen were my guests, warned in this condition,
and even without it ... and even without any warning.

Custom enough to warrant it, and being friends of the family burial in a small place so dismantled
like this, to justify the practice.

To receive and entertain the clergy, made by little and badly cooked, was commissioned by order
and has mine, as well as another custom, the priest Don Sabas; of the other outsiders of the heap
one used to care, and no one cared there either.

Nevertheless, the condition of my guests, although relatively rare, and so I forced mine, was
of necessity take the rest in the house, and no one would believe him not, as I saw it, the
amount of sleepless nights and sweat that came to represent that work, what shifted in the house
and place; the people who were put in motion the leagues of road that were thrashed by good
walkers, and the hours stolen from sleep and rest more than one night, and despite this and the
"guisanderas" for wages that helped women home in the most tough and committed to the slaughter,
God knows what would have been to critical hour and solemn, without continuous monitoring and
forecasting and admirable diligence my two beneficent fairy ... Neluco
and sister.

For the illustrious matron Tablanca Robacio was the night before. Had reached evening with
her husband, and "the legs." So went home to Neluco; found him closed and followed the Don Pedro
Nolasco, he said to the monsoon that it served what was happening,
then turned toward the house, without any pity for the poor hack who
already broke the back and was on the verge of spending the last breath
when climbing the scree.

When the two friends meet in the middle of Carrejo, enzarzáronse in an embrace so intimate and
tight, looking like a "engarra '; ate kisses between kisses and they said the biggest atrocities,
Lita came with his grandfather, and repeated the scene until it ran out of Robacio to look at
me and began to mourn the deceased, so willingly, that seemed to be no comfort to her, while
her husband, which had greeted me, made the corresponding pots, and wiped his eyes with aprons Lita
and her mother, who were his very sticky tender heart and tears. The noise was finished, by virtue
of a spell mine, with the same speed that had been unleashed, and we went into the Hall together
and holy peace, but not silent. Arriving Neluco, another crack of her sister, no mouth closed
all night and wanted to leave the house since I heard the commotion he had in it. Precisely
for these things are perishing, and killed the stillness. On the other hand, roads were not very
appetizing than were, for a woman of her flesh to venture to step on at night without a great need, besides
the fact that she was not to cause trouble or extortion at home,
because Pepa Mari knew that in joining the two were always "round
bed."

In this way, and slept there for those reasons, and they were alone after dinner, her husband
and Neluco to house it.

The first to arrive very early the next day were two relatives of the woman who was My Uncle Celso,
the Sanchez del Pinar, of Caórnica, on the banks of Saja. It was one very tall and one very low:
the two thick gray sideburns, both smiling and nothing little glib. I was embarrassed - and told
me to enter - visit and offer their respects for the first time to time so sad, it locked in its
valley, which is not never went without a reason considerable, a little ignorance of events and
partly because of the skill of "letting business for another day ...». Finally, there were available
to them at my convenience, as could comparientes have other there,
they had not been accompanied, who lack health who by the horse.

All had much to Don Celso and I was very addicted even bothered him recently.

Sit unfinished just these characters appeared in the Hall one whose appearance I surprised. He was tall,
more than Caórnica; of luenga and pointed white beard, dark color, very prominent and aquiline
nose, tiny eyes and eyebrows and ruffled green-white; head covered with a high cylindrical hat
otter skin, and the whole body until feet, with a gray cloth capotón. He looked like a magician.
He took off his cap and doffed the cape as he faced me, and revealed a patch of white hairs
tough and tight, and an old-fashioned dress form in relation to existing figurines, of good
cloth, yes, but very faded now. This man came from the cliffs of Deva and proved the famous
Don Recaredo, who I had a lot of news about my uncle, hidalgo of solar stale, unrepentant bachelor,
famed hunter of wild beasts, great and deserved influence throughout its region, well acquainted with
the men of the capital's political hustle and branches it, a premium of candidates for representation
in district court, in times of electoral LIDES ... Carpenter and exquisite taste, the only well established
that he knew and with which he entertained the solitude and idleness
of his life in the old house he inhabited.

Recaredo Don came back at once, for having put together a few on the
road and all at the door of the house, up to five wealthy, more or
less bound to her by blood distant or ancient friendship, Nansa the
banks of upstream and downstream.

Next to them, appeared in the Hall two characters of great account,
which was imposed on me much for his good looks and harnesses, so
different from everything that was used there and what at the time
around me.

It was none other than the famous knight Don Román Pérez de la Llosía and his son Don Alvaro
of Gerra. Iban from Santander, where they lived, and had made the trip in two days. The truth
to all: I, who until then dominated the scene that gives disengage awareness of "worth more"
in the level of education and intellectual culture, to me front of those two competing so distinguished
and elegant appearance, I felt my far down the chimney smoke, even what to wear clothes well,
particularly played as compared with the most correct handsome son of the matron of Coteruco.
I was quite awkward to express the gratitude owed to them by this act as honorable to the memory
of my uncle, and the satisfaction that I felt possessed by shaking hands a few people who
so many big news had reached me from to Tablanca. I remember this was the subject of my response
to the polite greetings two knights, but not what I said. What I am sure you have said is very
wrong.

Valga truth.

Without giving me time to ask Don Román (by which I avoided, probably, the commission a great
impertinence) how high they went back to his purposes Coteruco appeared on the scene another
character of the first class, to which I embraced with genuine outpouring of my soul: Lord,
renowned Provedaño Tower, that to reach the time came, Recaredo as a gift to get from the cliffs
of Deva and of Caórnica from their valley, had needed night walk halfway, and which way! So
he came, his face pouring fires and lips made between the beard and whiskers bristling with
icicles. The had happened before between the coming and present, for all known treatment, or name
at least, spent time, but with the notable difference that the repair that of the of Coteruco
Provedaño did not end all in the warm handshake or family and clapping each other on the back,
but moved and eager each other, without saying a word, hugged so closely that hit did not seem
to separate. Then it was the turn of Don Alvaro, who was not as friendly as that of Campóo his
father, and under this Act was an expression of greeting.

For very little more than these compliments he gave me the time because they had not yet sat
down again half the people there, when Don came word that everything was Sabas early in the
church and we waited. As we were very close and not exceed ten the funeral less than two hours,
and outsiders had to go home after lunch in mine, and evenings were very short, we started immediately,
accompanying Neluco and her sister Mari Pepa, much mourning. The old Marmitón not allow leave.
To have the table and direct and order all that was left was painted Lituca one for this and other
much more. Also Chisco and Pete stayed with two monsoon Salces my confidence, well aware of many
care for me, particularly the monitoring, I do not know if it came spontaneously from within the
occurrence, or because I was inspired by a Women's eloquent look gray, to see how the house would
remain, without us, helpless and all but empty.

And walk toward the church, we saw pop up on the rocky hump of a man tall, stocky, beautiful
head, wrapped a broad-brimmed hat and a gray beard; came to hand with a brown jacket and trousers,
the same color, rolled up on a stout boots of sole and very muddy. He brought his hands in his
pockets coat, a paint stick and knotted under his left arm, and mouth smoked a pipe.

The first thing he saw was the lord of Provedaño, who was the most forward among us. He paused to watch
him singing with his hand over his forehead, and also stopped the other with dark eyes and impassive
upon him. Like two lions. Do not missed more than smell. Then came more, and shook the right
hands with stout shocks. Then I found two mountain twin oaks shaken by the breath of the same burst.
I do not know what they said or if they said something. Why? In these questions I saw Don Román
Pérez de la Llosía out like an arrow, among the laggards of the group coming down, to the
man up, and it, noting that he was approached by Coteruco, detached His right hand of the campurriano,
took off his hat smartly with it, discovering and spacious, white forehead, over which seemed
to reflect the light beam launched then his eyes. I have never seen a man more manly attitude,
nobler and more beautiful. But Don Román not walked in tiny, and like it or not, he shook in his
arms. His son did the same immediately. Then Don Recaredo forward and extended his hand. A whole
this was in the air as the 'Lope' given by many mouths, and with it and I knew the story of
Don Roman busts in his village, narrated thoroughly by my uncle several times, say by known
character, and I was right, for a few moments brought me hand Mr. Perez de la Llosía and presenting
said:

- My best friend and noblest Coteruco neighbors of mine, Don Lope
of Oak Grove.

Comes to Tablanca to offer you personally for all the friendship and respect that he deserved the
virtues Don Celso, and to pray for his soul at the funeral today.

Reciprocated with the utmost cordiality and as best I could to those noble offerings; knew where
he went over there, and unwilling to accept a moment of rest, which did not need back and
went the way to church with us ... I say bad, with only Romao, they took it on his own course,
a good distance away from others, that nothing we come closer to them respecting the holy avidity
with which the noble expatriate Coteruco would use this providential opportunity to know more about
what he knew about the state of affairs of his native town, although they were drawn with the
pick of their desire for that chest of four keys. Meanwhile, Don Alvaro de la Gerra was charting
new and very curious character traits to the incredible original, of that gentleman mountaineer.

Thus
we come to church, where we had not managed to penetrate without
leaving, as they left it, some of those inside, which barely fit after
the porch, also was jammed with people.

The length of the trades did not go down a minute of two hours calculated,
and when we returned the house that it had gone to church, it's strange
that he wanted become Don Lope to Coteruco from there, and it has
become without the intervention of Don Roman, unique among all us
acquainted with the springs that are governed this eccentric character,
he was the table set up with all the grandeur of ancestry ... and
something else that had been acquired, even in the homes of friends,
including Don Pedro Nolasco and physician.

Because we passed a dozen and half the guests, between insiders and outsiders.

At one time I would have an accident in the presence of that food menu, the more than the food
itself, because it was truly frightening that come to the table (taken by Facia and his daughter,
suffocated by the bustle and glistening skin) piles of dishes sausage with shrapnel, from piles
of chicken upside down between gaps of fat; Steak threaded; of lean with hard boiled eggs, meat
in all sorts of dishes, stuffed duck sausage and tenderloin, and
after it, the custard as millstones, and the custard and rice pudding,
a little less than boilers.

They did not understand the direction otherwise women who had handled, and so I explained I
perfectly the desires and anxieties, and people and things that had moved into the house and removed
at the place and out of three day at that hour.

The weight of the conversation at dinner, they brought the Lord of Provedaño and Don Roman. As
was natural and was started by the praise of the deceased and their cool stuff, like in the
kitchen, except the language and style. Among Neluco and I supply the requested details about
his illness and death ... and jumped at once what I saw coming time did, and I wondered why I had
not jumped before the conversation: the point of continuing I was there the charity of my uncle.