 Pieces of shiny satin brightly
colored hot taps were not yet withdrawn from the palette, the good Bringas was scattered throughout
the piece, between evil twisted ribbons and lace pieces. The two women could not walk through
there without their skirts are entangled in Mozambique and twenty yards of navy blue poplin
that had fallen from a chair and was linked to foulard strips. In that beautiful mess that smell
out of clothes very special store, which is a remnant of the industrial dye smells, mixed with
paper and wooden packaging. On the couch, half a dozen colored figurines lying occupied in the
ladies impossible, reed-thin, stiff as sticks, whose feet are the size of fingers hand, women whose
mouth a red wafer, which appear dressed in paper and look each other in face of idiocy.

To be caught in the act, the first impulse was to gather all Rosalia,
but she ran out of time and dread the same sugiriole an early exit,
very subtle stroke of genius that understanding.

"Hush, man, by God - he said, putting his arm around her and gently sacándole Camon's not aware
that the dressmaker -. Is ... I thought you had told him last night. These dresses are in Miracles.
Yesterday, if you saw!, Had the poor a quarrel with that awful Marquis Caribbean. That if he
was the one spent, if she spent more, that if you, if I ... For some there is a tragedy. I was
there ... and I tell you I was thinking send them to bring Arnica ... Milagros, now can not
entrust anything because Eponine her husband did not pay the bills, bought fabric and brought
home as a seamstress to take a couple of summer dresses ... What could be more natural? The poor
are managed twenty-four Mozambique yards, two ESP staff, and twenty of poplin, fourteen ...
You see how economy. For anything that comes tagarote, which undoubtedly had lost hundreds of dollars
to a jack, and the same was to see the fabrics and dressmaker, begins to take by mouth that
heresies ... Holy Christ! I stayed ... Nothing: everything is back to trample on the web and
foot to figurines, saying: Brrr ...!, whatnot. The poor little Milagros has ruined their rags.
Have you seen what donkey? Then he took off his stories, and catching the poor seamstress for a arm,
stood in the street without giving it time to put the blanket. Have you seen what piece of
barbarian? ... Milagros fainted. We had to apply ether and I do not know what else ... In order
for it out of this commitment, I had to bring me home fabrics and dressmaker work to do here. She
will then direct it, because I, frankly, I bit of these things as storied and as recargaditas.
Emilia, that girl is very clever and works for little money ... It is an unpretentious unhappy,
but it gives slap to the famous Worth do not believe ...».

With these witticisms, that good Christian relented, and as a little
later came the Marchioness the three locked themselves in and were
picking Camón all day, cutting, measuring, testing, breaking and re-test,
was told by Rosalie as likely as truth.

Were concerned, all these, the lady of the insurmountable difficulties that would ensue when he
released those clothes, because in that case, against the evidence, would not be worth the
well-known figure locked tangle. He consoled himself with the hope of an act that would very
easy and safe solution. Bravo Gonzalez had offered to D. Francisco provincial government. Fish urged
him to accept it, sure it would look like and that the province who would fell a governor as
honest and respectable, would have to jump for joy. But he was repelled how sensitive this office,
and would not leave her quiet and that it was dark live so happy.