 There were those of - you.
is my savior. What angel brought you to this poor woman persecuted? I am innocent. My only crime
love is a lot like a young man who died for me. This has made me the father of the gentleman
from who you talk to me. All his rage against me is because they love him and want his son.
You have mercy on a woman unjustly persecuted.

The doorman went away another man .-- Who comes up with a girl brought here like this? - Is
asked himself. The devil, but the evil spirit to tempt and draw from their boxes to the peaceful
people. Here I would like to see the strong men, the same saints. "Resist? It will soften, they
would melt, would be delivered footed into the clutches of Satan. Will he have the courage to see
her mourn, complain and beg to hear it and not take their part? I will do what it wants. Is
clear. And stay wrong with the Bishop, my protector, will fall from grace, lose the position
I occupy in this house. But what remedy?

She is very cute, cry, and I'm not stick. Damn fruit!

Two or three days later it returned, and keeper of the collections did not get it wrong. Brought
new claim: that of a private conversation with the prisoner in the prison. Visits were prohibited
inside the house could only speak to those contained in the presence of the guardian at the gate
of the goal. But Mary Rule argued the point with skill, saying, among other things, not surprisingly,
the porter will help kill an innocent child sadness, and made complicit in the greatest injustice
that had occurred previously in Havana. That gentleman, lover of the girl, he had very advanced
steps to remove closure, and, of course, exclude from its gratitude
to all those who had oppressed their adored torment.

Then he added, as if suddenly remembering:

- The gentleman gave me for lord these half-dozen ounces of gold, in case the girl needed something
to eat, or dress, or any craving ...

This last argument ended up spoiling the rest of virtue or embarrassment of the goalkeeper.
Granted entry. Briefly describe the scene now followed the interview the messenger with the dam.

María
Cecilia Rule found in the same position in which said had surprised guardian days before,
only this time not the hair that covered part of the back overlooking
the entrance to the cell.

Something began to see there's former nurse, who called him greatly care.

- Jesus! said. What do I see? Is it possible that this child is the same as I suspected? What
things happen in this world!

In that voice and those incoherent exclamations, Cecilia raised her
head and asked Ringtone unconscious and suffering:

- What do you
want?

- I want to tell me his mercy his first name.

- Cecilia Valdés.

-
Jesus! she cried the black.

Itself than I expected! Like a dream. You know his mercy Who painted the crescent?

- What crescent?

- The bears his mercy in the shoulder (with the index touching the girl's left).

- This is not painting, is a mole, or rather, a brand I have been there as a result a blow to
my childhood.

- No, if your worship is really, really Cecilia Valdés I know, that's
not the moon, or hit mark: crescent is the grandmother of his mercy
he painted and indigo needle before to throw it into the Real Casa
Cuna.

- Oh! Mother never told me such thing.

- I know because that
was the signal that I got to recognize among the other girls the Royal
Baby.

- Who is you who knows so much about me?

- Is it possible
that your worship does not know me yet?

Should remember me.

- No, indeed.

- Well, I gave suck to their mercy, first in the Real Casa Cuna, and
then for about a year, staying with the grandmother of his mercy,
when she lived in the alley in San Juan of God.

Your worship was already talking champurriado Pennines and not say more, on days I removed it
from the arms. Ay! Do not know his mercy with tears and sorrow it has cost me his upbringing,
not only to me, also my husband. Yes, your worship has been the cause first and foremost of
our misfortunes.

- What has happened to Vds.?

- I will be banished from Havana twelve
years, and my husband is a prisoner in jail.

Le blame the death of Captain Tonda.

- So that's how you say!

So I am the most unhappy woman who treads the world! Alas, without having harmed anyone all
fall on me!

- Do not cry, nor regret, girl.

Although the cause of our misfortunes, his grace is innocent no fault.

- How should I not mourn and grieve, if pursued after me unjustly, made of stone scandal of women
in this house, harass me with your questions and nonsense, for auction has been you, it says
I grew up, and I reproach the misfortunes of you and her husband? Is there more unhappiness
than mine?

- When I told him my story, woven with that of his mercy, will be
convinced that I have a lot reason.

- But who are you?

- My name
is Maria de Regla, humble servant of his grace, Leonardo Gamboa child
slave.

- Ah!

Cecilia said standing up and hugging her interlocutor.

- Listen!
said it with feeling.

The child recognizes and embraces me as a child slave Leonardo not
the mother's milk as I am of his mercy.

- No, I embrace both reasons,
especially since his coming is a bringer of salvation for me.

The black crossed his arms and began to contemplate Cecilia face to
face.

From time to time murmured in a low tone: See you! The same front!
The same nose! The same mouth!

The same eyes! Even the dimple in his beard! Yes, her hair, her body, her air, her own angel!
What! His very image!

- Who? asked Cecilia.

- In my daughter Adela.

- Who is this girl?

-
Milk My other daughter, sister, father and mother of the child Leonardo.

-
"So much I look like her?

That's what I had told some friends who know her view.

- And say
that it seems.

Not be more like twins.

Could it be because the child why Leonardo is so enamored of his
mercy?

But he sins and sin to want to worship as they want.

If you would like as friends or brothers, go, as a man and woman
is a sin.

Both are in mortal sin.

- Why did you say that? Cecilia asked, surprised. In loving a man and a much woman, I do not know
who has sinned.

- Yes, there, child, sometimes you have to sin tight.

On the one hand, he is white, but within Soon it will be of blue blood, because his father is
the Count of Casa Gamboa. And he has a palace to live with that is to be his lawful wife. And
his mercy ... Sorry, girl, that is so clariosa. His mercy is poor, has no drop of blue blood
and a daughter ... of the Creche. You can not be left to marry his mercy.

- Everything is to be put on the head. A good man he is and does what he wants. And although no,
I'm sure the word that has given me.

- You can not fulfill it, girl.

Undeceive, yet still can not fulfill.

- Why not?

- Why not. In time you will know their mercy.

That marriage is a dream, are not checked ...

- Then you are opposed. I do not understand why.

- I am not opposed, my child.

Not me who is opposed, is another, that's nature are the laws divine
and human.

It would be a sacrilege ... But what do I say? At least it is too
late.

Tell me, girl, what's in your eyes?

- I have nothing in their eyes, "said Cecilia scrubbing innocently.

- Yes, I see something in them that is a bad sign. I think that has yellow eyeball. No doubt.
These circles, the pallor, the face distorted ... Poor thing! His mercy is sick.

- I sick! No, no, she said a hurry.

- His mercy and Leonardo child is female.

- Do not understand what you said.

- Have you ever felt your mercy nausea? So as a desire to be provocative?

- Yes, several times.

More often since I'm in this house. I attribute that to the shocks and sorrows my unjust imprisonment.

-
Tate. Some are the bulls. Did not I? The cause of the illness of his worship is another. I
know, the soothsayer. Do not know the girl I've been a nurse for many years? What am married? There
is no healing.

None ... Poor girl! Innocent! Unhappy! In his mercy has made much damage that face so beautiful
that God has given. If your worship had been born ugly, perhaps does not matter what happens
now. Would be free and be happy. More ... which has no cure, is best forgotten. Finally, tell the
child Leonardo the status of your mercy and safety pin that rush to get the girl in this damn
house.

Leonardo Gamboa strongly affected the latest news that Cecilia brought the slave. Without loss
of time, as he had intended it, he focused with his classmate and friend Mayor, who had decreed
the arbitrary order of imprisonment, to which he claimed those titles, along with this circumstance.
He also revealed the delicate state secret the girl. Spilled all over the gold with both hands
and had the ineffable satisfaction to see their efforts crowned with success all the way over
the last days of the month April.

Cecilia went to his place, despite fierce opposition from his father. Led prison the house they
had rented in the Rue des Dames, by giving cook, servant trust and owner of Mary always rule.
It seemed there was not the happiest man on the face of the earth.

While all this was executed with total reserves of Don Candido, Leonardo hid anything Dona Rosa.
From beginning to end kept informed of the steps being taken, as
were given.

And, sorry to say, do not know who was more rejoicing in the outcome of the drama, if your child
or the mother. This raised an insurmountable barrier, she sincerely believed, between the girl and
the reckless claims of her husband.

Amid these scenes, displayed Leonardo skill and willpower without example, by great care in fulfilling
the conditions of the contract held secret to her mother. Attended to law classes regularly,
and when it came time to graduate, visited one by one doctors to
be discussed, mainly to Don Diego de la Torre, who enjoyed very stiff
reputation with graduates, he went out to Fray Ambrosio Herrera, Secretary
University, who secretly informed that instead of the three tips of
hard custom, intended to put three ounces of gold in each cartridge.

That paved the way for reception, and managed to stall the ordinance hood, up to the chair
of the lecture hall, get in the crown of the head red biretta, delivering a speech unintelligible
in Latin, and obtain the degree of Bachelor of Laws "Nemiña dissentiente [60] April 12 1831.

Satisfied with this side its commitments, he still had time to take formal possession of palace
that his father had given him.

Then, with the aim of monitoring numb of it, ran to give a "caradita" to Isabel's paradise Alquízar,
and see to conclude with it, if possible, the manner and time of marriage.

Found it quite cold and discouraged. Repugnábale highly the idea of ??witnessing for second
time, the horrific scenes of wit.

As a guest, it would lack the time together with desire, like love, because if failed to stop
loving the terrible punishments blacks there, by a fatal necessity of the institution, could
hardly promised that married were abolished. Leonardo And pray take these reasons for which
mere scruples nun friend, now they might be persuaded it would relieve a promise that is no
longer interested much his heart, turned to Havana without trying to pave the unexpected inconvenience.

Had
flown out with inconceivable rapidity. In late August was a beautiful Cecilia girl; event
that, far from happy with Leonardo, it seems that only made him feel
the full weight of the grave responsibility that had been thrown over
in a moment of amorous rapture.

That not his wife, much less their equal. Could you submit it without blushing, that beautiful
as magu sun, anywhere? He had not yet fallen so gentle slope of vice sambenito that would make the
gala.

Vanished, without a doubt, the enthusiasm with easy coveted possession of the object was only
contemptible in quality above. When love took place shortly shame. After this was due repentance,
and presented at a gallop, much earlier than This was expected, called the cold storage conditions
and moral laxity that had tests the young Gamboa.

The first symptoms of change not long in discovering Cecilia with pain came towards rush of
jealousy to complicate the situation of things.

After three or four months of marriage unlawful were less frequent
and less prolonged visits to Leonardo's house Calle de las Damas.

What value than the height of gifts to the beloved, who advanced
to all tastes and whims, even if it was ever more cold and reserved
with her, but showed pride and joy for the child, if ever they failed
to achieve even for a night trocar the house of his own parents?

This explains the strange behavior of Leonardo with Cecilia, the biggest influence on him vigorously
pursued his mother. Because it was a certainty that if the boy had fled with all the virtues
at the early age of 22 years, fleeing the timid pigeon loft struck
by lightning, was no less true that warmed her heart still sweet filial
marble.

Doña Rosa also had learned from those days true story of birth, baptism, parenting and fatherhood
of Cecilia Valdés, told Mary Rule now in order to obtain complete forgiveness of their sins
and some help for Dionisio, who was still in close prison. Terrified this lady of the abyss
to which he had pushed his son, he said with apparent calmness:

- I was thinking, Leonardite, it's time to loosen up on the little boy like wild pears ... What do
you think?

- Jesus, Mom! shocked the young man replied. It would be an atrocity.

- Yes, it is necessary, the mother said in a resolute tone. Now, to marry Elizabeth.

- This, too? Isabella no longer loves me. You have read his last letters. They do not speak
love, speaks only Monji.

- Nonsense!

Never mind. I'll fix the business in two Palotada. Things have changed.

It should get married early on primogeniture, even not for any other
purpose than ensuring legitimate succession to the title.

To marry Isabel, I say.

By letter of Don Tomas Don Candido Ilincheta, said Dona Rosa Isabel's
hand for his son Leonardo, heir presumptive County Gamboa House.

In response, the alleged bride, accompanied by her father, sister and aunt came to his time
Havana and was removed at the home of her cousins, the Misses Gámez. It was therefore postponed
marriage for early November in the picturesque Church of the Angel, because the most decent,
if not closer to the congregation itself. The first of three revelations Regular ran last Sunday
in October, fairs past San Rafael.

There were those who communicate with Cecilia's new link next to Isabel Ilincheta her lover.
We disclaim paint the tumult of passions aroused in the breast of
the proud and vengeful mulatta.

Suffice it to say that the sheep, in fact, became a lioness.

At dusk on November 10 knocked on the door of an old friend Cecilia,
who not seen since his concubinage with Leonardo.

- Jose Dolores!
she exclaimed, throwing her arms around his neck in tears.

What good angel sent you to me?

- I come, "he said with grim countenance and terrible voice, because it gave me the heart Celia could
need.

- Jose Dolores! José Dolores of my soul! That marriage should not be.

- No?

- No.

- Then tell me not to be Celia.

- No more off him in his arms
and walked outside. Cecilia, a little, limp hair and the dress loose,
ran to the door and shouted back: Joseph! José Dolores! To her, he
does!

Useless warning. The musician had already turned the corner
of Calle de las Damas.

Numerous candles and candles burned on the
altar of the church of Santo Angel Custodio. Some people were standing,
leaning on the railing of the broad plateau ending the two stone steps.
On the Street looks up a large group Compostela ladies and gentlemen
whose carriages were down. The couple put the foot on the last step,
when a man came by the other side, his hat pulled down over ears,
crossed the plateau and ran diagonally to Leonardo, an effort to win
before this the south side of the church, where he finally disappeared.

She
took the boy on the left hand, gave a muffled cry, wanted to lean
on the arm Elizabeth, rolled and fell at his feet, splashing blood
on the shiny white silk dress.

Brushing the arm at the scum, he became
the knife right way the heart.

CONCLUSION

Far from appeasing Rosa
convinced that Cecilia Valdés was the daughter of his adulterous half-sister,
husband and hence his unfortunate son, that it seemed to turn it into
anger divestment and the desire for revenge. Pursued, then, the girl
with real fury, and it was not difficult to make the convict as an
accomplice in the murder of Leonardo, a year of confinement in the
hospital for Paula. On these roads came to recognize and embrace daughter
and mother, having recovered this trial, as is often the insane, a
few moments before his spirit left the wretched human shell.

It makes
Isabel Ilincheta, disillusioned would not find happiness or quiet
the soul in the society within which happens to be born, retired to
the convent of the nuns Teresas or Carmelites, and was professed there
after a year of novitiate