 All perspectives that can dilate his eyes were human understanding presents difficulties
and uncertainties, and invaded his mind confused impressions disorder contrary, while giving his reason
just ideas and misperceptions. Each system picked a different word, and none the truth about
his tormented him phraseology of ingenious techniques that give real names of things creations
of the mind, affirming what no show and others will say that man is nothing but force and matter,
a watch with a string to a number of years, usually by his genius ahead of time in which he
lives, which is delayed by ignorance, which can be fixed when it breaks, but that finally breaks,
about all founded on ideas, others all based on facts. And when such thoughts absorbed him, it
seemed like a mocking little voice from a corner of his brain, ear toward him, advising him
to throw the books and philosophies and sterile stop monologues, which were not to give a wheat grain
or a drop of water. He, however, still in their studies, and as the diver with diving low into the
depths of the ocean, penetrated in the social seas, with good faith and sincerity support guide.

So
each step was a disappointment: he saw that life is a struggle against selfishness, where Gold serves
as absolution for the infamy and safe conduct for the annulment,
the world battle where the medals are counted, not as you work, but
according to what one has.

Acquire is the talisman that solves everything, not having the crime that no one is forgiven,
not have had, a stain that will never be erased. At the gates of the world has written impudence
this sign: "It has, and what else will be given to fill."

Lazarus sometimes be convinced that he believed the earth was the seat of evil, had told their
teachers, all apparently urged him to bow to this view.

Mixed with their love of humanity, began to feel contempt for the man, a stranger, ridiculous
and sublime at the same time, which is often bad, but sometimes it's worse. I saw that, as
soon dried fruit maturity at corruption, the man quickly passes experience to selfishness, and
was persuaded that the experience is useless, because always late. If he thought in himself, was
humbled, if a student's neighbor, we had pride. All doubts were continuous, which these waves
mutually linked engendered, and neither is the second season.

In analyzing this, everything looked black, but to study the life of the past, looking reproduced
in different forms the same difficulties, but always welcome, made
each time more bearable, and knew that this work of centuries, aspiration
and work of humanity, is progress.

He saw the world improved over time, that evil would subside and that her former teachers had been
painted as enduringly bad what is eternally perfect. Although studies and embitter brooding
in the depths of his soul was always like in Pandora's box, a sweet balm, hope, and then the little
voice mocking commitment that if he had his ideals trocar idols, he said: - "Hope is the delicacy
land tastier, but is also less nutritious. "-

Result of many sleepless nights, Lazarus came to know much, but everything could be reduced
to two points: one on the world, another concerning oneself. He knew that evil and good is not
a lie on earth and one in heaven, but both are below, within ourselves,
in seeds ready to sprout and flourish, or may, as instinct, education,
time or the will of man.

And he knew, as well, who on earth is something very similar to happiness: love. A book that
no one can read two times in life, but really and there he was denied. His soul must be a dead
man who had to shroud a cassock.

The doctrines of those who educated him and ordered it. On top of almost divine decalogue I should
practice, the men had written this command: - "Do not love it." -

- Do not you love it!!, Lazarus was repeated continuously, and each time he seemed unfair. Innocence
protest with the impetuosity of anger or bitter disappointment lax,
but always I had to confess up.

His conscience was a servant in the alternative set to rise arms or accept slavery humble and lowly,
there were only two roads, abjure, or resign. What did not exist, which anyone could offer was
a solution that had some comfort.

When the storm surprised the bird leaves the nest, the bird struggles with storm flapping to
get it back, when the boy breaks down and hurts to walk, looking
eager her mother's lap, when the man leaves the woman who loves him,
and suffer disappointments, turns to her, and throws her arms, Lazarus
had no nest, no lap or arms to qualify; had, like a double whammy,
the doubt in the face and love in the soul.

His meditation of religious broke with his thoughts of man, and if a strong desire or fear of
danger brought the prayer to his lips, and the thoughts of the sacred severe Prayer slid a
woman's name, entering his image among gay; austere reflections, like a magician come in a choir
of monks.

IX.

Josephine entered the room of the Duchess really determined to discover the inclination to Felix felt
his mother asking for help could be a decent man home, but against
Margarita energy and resolution were on the ground; began to mourn,
and faltered amid fears that had been proposed that clear.

The Duchess, kissing her affectionately, dried her tears, he heard
the confession of budding love, and dismissing her request with tenderness,
took her to the door of his cabinet, ensuring that the interview as
short possible.

Left alone, the Duchess cried too, but not with the tears peaceful and pure girl, but bitter, bitterly,
with tears in late spring and sear to slip his face.

Determined to speak with her husband, asking if he was sent home, and when answered that the Lord
had not left, he walked into the office, where he found the Duke
browsing the Senate rules.

Caused him to stop reading, and addressing the issue head told that by his own interest, not
to sin of ingratitude and Josephine Grace, it was necessary Felix Hamlet return as before frequenting
the house.

Examinose between spouses of the question, and the Duke, who already was fond of everything
that had taste of discussion took the opportunity, talking at length about their honor and
prestige, it does not hurt your stay dignity, and another portion of that would have made things
any gossip, words, words words.

Finally, Margarita, with that touch that only women have, resolved the difficulties by proposing
to give a dance to celebrate the senate, being sent to Felix, as usual, corresponding invitation,
which, after what happened, came to be as a satisfaction without disgrace the offender could make
amends to the victim.

Accepted the idea, Margarita left Duke to continue its consideration of the Rules of High House, and
back to his room, after have closed the door carefully to avoid being suddenly startled, made
into a chair, leaned against one of his elbows wide arms, and hiding his face with , letting the tears
bursting through her rosy fingers, frowning and red eyelids, looked thoughtful, and nobody
could find to see if that lady was a mother who imposed a sacrifice or a woman whose jealousy
harassed.

* * * * *

It fixed the day of the party, and began preparations.

      The tapestry and adorned took possession of the rooms that had to
be checked, he built a gallery foliage which put in communication
the main hall of the ground floor with spacious conservatory glass
in the rose garden; cubriéronse iron columns entwined litter, were
hung from the ceiling of glass apparatus for gas were put in angles
the best sculptures in the house, making the white marble highlight
on funds dark foliage lanterns were prepared for the booths in the
park, God order in the kitchen for dinner was sumptuous, rushed all
the treats you can gold suit the taste, and a legion of artisans invaded
the palace for many days, arranging things so that when two hours
before the Dukes inspected dance all preparations, the new senator,
lolling on a couch with the dignity his inauguration, and looking
at his wife with conceited satisfaction, exclaimed: - "He'll be fine."

And it was. From eleven in the evening a long line of cars was slowly leaving the Palace lobby
hundreds of guests, ladies, wrapped in delicious wraps, got out of their sedans and Clarens,
coquettishly revealing footwear feet rested a moment in the stirrup, while with his hand, gloved
to the elbow, picked up the long tail adorned with valuable lace, the servants were ordered to return
at dawn, the and curious onlookers, parked across the street, watched those doing great things
comments, suggested by the beauty of women or the envy of wealth, the halls were filling, and
heat and lights agglomeration was engendered lively and colorful faces. Here we heard praises
of the homeowners, said out loud, there were grouped others mumble censorship; about looking for acquaintances,
greeted all the Dukes, the more serious or curious discussed in the classroom immediately collected
works of art with exquisite taste, luxury or books, put on the tables
of very rich deposits; and young people, together with the old Gayelette,
standing in the door, spent reviewing the entering, changing handshakes,
saying compliments or looks that seemed to receive signs.

A little past midnight the room offered such an appearance of luxury and wealth, joy reigned appear
to have much sway over the souls of all those people, so much enjoyment was reflected on their
faces, that it seemed that nobody had that joyous mob who knew grief or pain.

They, bound with tight outfits that oppress to model the shapes, with their long skirts pinned flowers
and lace, with their crowns with jewels on the forehead, beauty print in the face and joy in their
eyes, received the homage of convoluted sentences, not always frank with his worshipers tried to take
them. They dressed the harsh and unfriendly tails, were struggling to reach some of the most
effect caused, for on the floor displaying his wit, looking almost insolently at married,
flirting with the prevention widows, and trying to inquire the dowry of singles. Towards the end
of the hall could be seen some couples themselves busier than the others, in which she seemed
resigned to grant what she wanted to grant, as he persisted in asking what later was to tired.
Ran in a circle of politics, it was said quietly scandal week, speaking
in his ear and in secret the names of the protagonists.

A gentleman surreptitiously approached to adjoining rooms, watching the moment to reach out vegueros
delicious spread on silver trays. The music dominated intervals The buzz of conversation, the
atmosphere was loaded until it becomes annoying, the temperature increased; the parched environment
of the room seemed to struggle with fresh penetrated the garden by
the broad balconies in soft bursts, and among the sea of ??light or
whirlpool color, the odor was perceived that were the aromas of flowers,
perfumes toiletries and the heat of the sweaty bodies.

The duchess, surrounded by her most intimate rivals of whoever received the accolades came
tribute to his good taste, almost all cut from the same pattern, very few clever or well said. His
suit was the subject of gossip among the ladies, admiration among men. The dress of white satin,
whose sculptural folds the light was broken as a flexible marble had arrived from Paris that
morning, and both wearing black pearls the ears were worth a fortune. Beside his mother, Josefina
seemed the new outbreak of beautiful flower: she was like the roses that have exhausted their
finery pump deploying all its petals to the light touch, she, like those buds starting parted
to spread his scent around soft and weak. Her dress was white too, but in the headdress and
lit, the flowers replaced wings jewelry.

The stirring excitement that made her more beautiful. Anxious and upset, constantly looking everywhere,
wondering: - will not come? Answered as briefly as I could disdainful and dismissive, and occasionally
looked fondly at her mother, who first appeared avoid the eyes of his daughter.

Finally, the girl was in love go to Felix, who, hailing the move to different people, came to
the Duchess, changed both simple phrases of courtesy, then went near
Josephine and a moment later saw them confused between groups of couples
who seemed crazy impelled to move by the notes of a waltz by Strauss.

Lazarus was picked up and read when it came to his ears the lively bustle of the holiday. Then closed
the book, opened the balcony and the cool night breeze brought him clear and separate the
passionate phrases of music, as if the world, with the voice of Mermaid I would like to wrest
from loneliness. Fell into the garden, approached a fence, and hid in a bushes whose branches
intertwined climbing the thick iron bars, held out overlooking the living room. His look is all encompassing.
After a moment, became the surprise in amazement, his eyes dazzled by the clarity, the groups were
discovering, isolating the figures, looking at the faces, seeing emerge from a confused sea
of ??lights and colors forms and the appearance of things.

The cliques formed as soon dissolved, the strange amalgam that produced in the table the black
suits of the men standing on light dresses of the women continued to move from shadows that
crossed to the fence, cutting off his view, the infinite variety of attitudes, the state of the
spirits reflected in faces, testifying in one of indifference, in
another of jealousy, showing the cold here of apathy, there's nervous
impatience, all that set of riches for him unknown luxury ignored,
he produced a strange impression, strong because it was new and powerful
it was continuous.

The sight of this ceaseless movement, light glinted in gems and necklaces, ladies, a fresh-faced
and wild flowers, withered other by cosmetics or years, decorated with silks of all shades, bare
backs and breasts to own attempt revealed how little they covered the ceiling, the sultry air
and flawed that escaped through the gate, stun the priest had finished,
but why stop looking forward, thinking every moment to discover new
smite your imagination calm down his agitated nerves.

There was a time when the music switched off all other noise; rhythm and melodic sound of the
notes seemed to crawl like dawn of spring planting of roses turns subdued and languid sweetest
chord suddenly were exchanged in fools gladly explosion sounds, and harmonies were scattered
like flying sighs to take refuge in the folds of the broad draperies, producing combinations
rare that were lost, some involved among other twists, like rustling silk and burst kisses
tablets. The couples were gliding swiftly to the gate in wild confusion, disappearing and turning
to pass which figures of a magic lantern, until silence suddenly the orchestra and that rapid
movement suspended, Lazarus saw him coming, still impelled by the last lap of the waltz, one woman
and one man, Felix and Josephine. He the encircled her waist drawing her to feel confused
breaths as she completely abandoned, drifting. They came to where he was the priest, and unemployed
the girl, moving the range of pearl and lace at her agitated breast, leaned on the arm Village,
while he whispered in her ear a sentence, paid to smile sorceress world. Lazarus, holding tightly
to the railing, looked not caring to be seen, without thinking had not seen eyes for each other. Beside
himself, agitated by a feeling unknown to him, all the bitterness felt rush of human suffering, and
as if your blood boil and ferment crowding to obscure that poor brain, the idea of ??hatred
stood In the terrible and powerful. There was no crime or shame then that no one believed
capable of committing; and measuring the speed of thought with his innocence, greater even than
his misery, he wondered, a wicked start, if it was divine justice that tolerated the torment.

Under
the priest's cassock for the first time pulsed in the heart of man's pulse wrong. The minister
of God suffered as the creatures of clay, and soul of immaculate purity, his gentleness, his
kindness evangelical point was overthrown by anger, hatred and revenge. The one time it seemed
more than ever created by the Lord with his bone bone and flesh of his flesh, promised by the
desire and nature to be satisfied of his love, the woman who was the emblem of his ideal and his
happiness was in the arms of another. Those irons that separated them and that he unnecessarily
shaking with impotent force, were their own votes and that supreme moment of his life, the solemn
ratification of the infamous law that said: "Do not love it."

Feeling dying, he dropped his arms in dismay, and all his anger was dissolved in two tears rolled
slowly down her face burned. There are souls who instinctively reject evil.