 

To the point quickly left the bedroom or den adjacent to a girl of thirteen, disheveled, with a
walk of one who just woke up suddenly, without ornaments a linen skirt and a denim bodice
that clung to her bosom, yet sharp, shirt tow. Neither looked at the girl to Mr. Rosendo, and gave
him good morning, groggy with sleep and hurt by the cool morning that he was biting the epidermis,
was to be dropped in a saddle, and while the waffle spectacularly lit matches and applied
to chips, the girl began to rub with a chamois the huge tubes of tin where the wafers are
stored.

Mr. Rosendo seated himself on his high wooden tripod before the flame sputtered and crackling already,
and getting into the magna fire tongs, began the operation. He had his right Amoh borer, which
wet the magazine, kind of thick stick, and extending a thin coating of liquid on the inside of
the hot irons, hurried to wrap in the mold with your thumb, which by dint of repeating this act had
become a callus toast, no nail, no yolk and almost formless. The waffles, golden and warm, fell
in the lap of the girl, who was introducing each other by way of glass tubes, and symmetrically
placed in the bottom of the canes; work was executed in silence, that more be heard rumor that the
cracking of the wood, the rhythmic squeak of the tongs to open and close its jaws of iron, dry
shock of crisp wafers by stumbling and the hiss of Amoh to evaporate the moisture on the hot
plate. Candlelight and reflections of the light glinted on the tin clean the glazed clay pots
the shelves, and the softening temperature is raised to the point that Mr. Rosendo to take off
the rubber cap with visor, revealing his sweaty bald head, and she flinch with the back of his hand
that stifled unruly locks.

Meanwhile, the sun, and in the skies camper, was determined to sift
through some clarity of green glass and pigs of the windows that was
bound to illuminate the kitchen.

Street shook the sleep of the Castros, and women in braids and hair, when not in petticoats and
slippers, went in a hurry, what to look for water, what to buy supplies to neighboring markets,
could be heard crying kids, barking dogs, a hen cackled, the canary in the barber shop across the
street stepped chirping like crazy. From time to time the child throwing covetous glances
of waffle on the street. When God would have served she left the hard chair, and could look
out the door, which is not much to ask! Soon give nine, and six thousand wafers admitting the
box were made only four thousand plus. The girl stretched mechanically. Is that from here a few
months very little he wore his father's work. Before dispatched more.

Anyone who saw those golden canes, light and brittle as the illusions of childhood, I could not
imagine the enormous work that represented their preparation.

Better off driving hoe or beak to open and close the tongs relentlessly scorching, burning also
fingers, hand and arm, painfully tired shoulder muscles and neck. The gaze always fixed on
the flame, tired, decreased vision, his back, hunched continuously, led to pure strains, the number
of the wafers out of the mold. And no day off! Wafers can not be done yesterday, if they have
to please the little people and greedy, they should be cool. A no humidity to soften. It must
spend the morning, sometimes at night, in factories, and sell them later in vocearlos. In
summer, the season is good and shipped much fat is removed and wages, there that the hours
could you be scorching, lazy hours, melting the heart of that fire, chyle sweating, double
supply of wafers prepared for sale to the public and cafés. Not that Mr. Rosendo was down to his office,
none of this, artists have proud of their skill, but as much as him, none. For over the years
we were winning, even boasted to fill in less time than one tin tube. Do not know delicacy concerning
any of the profession; wafers wide and thin as silk filling yarn eggs, waffles tough and close
to the water and lemon sorbet, hosts for coffee shops - and was not for lack of mold churches
that had a cross - flowers, chips and Carnival friar ears, donuts all the time .... But never had
to wear these ancillary skills because they were absorbent wafers daily. Bah, in achieving
and maintaining family life ....

At nine very long, when about five thousand wafers resting on the tube, yet Father and daughter had
not exchanged a word. Coal and ash piles around the fire, two or three times renewed. The
girl sighed heat, shaking frequently old hand right, middle and grilled. Finally, the girl uttered:

-
I have hunger.

The father turned his head, and expressive eyebrows arching indicated a shelf of Vasari. He seated
the little girl climbing on the trough, and down a medium piece of bread mix, in which bit into
in good spirits.

Still rummaging in her lap remaining crumbs to exploit them, when
they heard creaking cot, coughs, such noises the awakening of a person,
and a plaintive voice from despotic called from the bedroom near the
portal:

- Amparo!

The girl got up and went to call, resonating in a little while your talking.

- Afiáncese, lady ... well ... ge more ... wait I'm going to beat this mattress ... (Y here
is a great symphony heard of corn leaves, one sirrisssch ... long
and harmonious.)

Bossy voice dimly said something, and the child
replied:

- I'm going to put the fire right now for very .... Will
sugar out there?

And responding to a question highly offensive to their dignity, the girl cried:

- And you think .... Although it was pure gold!

Hide it yourself .... There, behind cover ... See?

Came out with a chipped bowl in hand, full of dark molasses, and pulled the fire a pot which
was already the scale, he added in proper proportions and milk sugar,
and returned to the portal room with a steaming cup filled to revert.

At the bottom of pileup was a thing of another cup. The waffle straightened her hands to lumbar
region, and soberly, without concupiscence, had breakfast drinking the leftovers same pot. Then
wiped his forehead with sweat watered the sleeve, entered turn into the next room, and presented
again, dressed in trousers and jacket brown cloth, wore on his back the tin box and fell to
the street. Amparo covering the coal with ash together in a casserole cabbage, potatoes, bacon
rind, rancid pork bone, fulfilling the duty to flavor the broth of the humble household. So
everything was arranged, Then he put into the den, where he consecrated his six personal dressing
and a half minutes, divided as follows: one minute to put on his shoes calf, because I was
still barefoot, and two to throw a flannel petticoats and a dress tartan, one minute to spend
the end of a damp cloth for eyes and mouth (beyond not reach the toilet), two minutes to weed
through a toothless comb the revolt and curly tresses, and a half to touch pañolito neck a
calico. This done, presented a more plump princess the person who had been bedridden for breakfast.
This was a middle-aged woman, bored as a skimmer for smallpox, flat front, small eyes. Seeing the
little girl dressed was shocked: Where would now like wandering?

- A church, ma'am, that is Sunday .... What night or to go back to night? Whenever I came to
day, forever .... Once in a thousand! Preparadito broth is fire .... Well, Abur.

And he took to the streets with the impetuosity and vigor of a well-fired
rocket.

-II-

Father and mother

Three years earlier, was unable
healthy and robust and earned his living in the factory Tobacco.

One winter night was to soap to wash linens groups, sweat, again homeless and crippled hip woke
.-- An air, sir - she said the doctor.

Small abode the family that the Lord works Rosendo: the daily real
bottom Brotherhood of the factory received the patient was less than
half a tooth.

And the girl grew, and ate bread and shoes broke, and there was no
subject who sew or other kinds of tasks.

While his father left, the fear of shaken pasagonzalo charger had it still stringing and placing
wafers, but only the old man ply belt tube Amparo felt a tingling in the legs, a swarm of
blood, like impatience you were born thousands wings on his heels.
The street was his paradise.

The crowd of lovers, elbow and the flatter jerk as if they were touching, the military music
penetrated all his being shivers of excitement. We spent hours and hours running around aimlessly
to through the city, and returned home with bare feet stained with mud, her skirt in tatters,
made a soup, brat, disheveled, loss, and overflowing with happiness and health by pore of his
body. A maternal philippics force ran a broom across the floor, seasoned broth, brought a tool
of water then, with speed of bird escaped from the cage and returns to its free loitering
in the streets and alleys.

Of these instincts erratic little guilt would not necessarily life that made the girl while his
mother attended the factory. Home alone with his father, just this out, she imitate him not
to stay stuck in four walls: go, and they were not so happy to anyone looking at them enraptured.
The kitchen, dark and narrow, like a Espelunca, and over the fire glowed ominously the last
dying embers of the fire. In the skate, If it is true that it became clear, not consoled her
eyes look like a heap of lime and masonry waste, mixed with fragments
of plates, pans broken, a grinder useless, two or three old rags and
shoe ignoble laughed out loud.

Almost more pitiful was the spectacle of double room: the bed in disarray, because the abrupt
departure the factory did not allow it, the color covers hospital, it was not enough to cover
a quilt bobtail, the tallow candle, dripping sadly over the candlestick streaked with verdigris
brass, the pan placed on a chair and bursting with soapy water greasy, in short, the history of
poverty and neglect told in prose by a multitude ugly object, and that the girl understood
intuitively: for some people not born from silk and Dutch, and guess boasts all the comforts
and pleasures that never enjoyed. So Amparo fled, fled their dollars Factory road, taking his mother
in a lunchbox, the bazuqueante broth, but maybe dropping the charge, began to play the run,
St. Severin, the widow, anything with the ladies of her age and coat.

When the mother was bedridden daughter wanted to impose a sedentary work, was late. The rustic
plant is not held and the espaller. Amparo had gone to school in their early years, years of
relative prosperity for the family, going the way most poor girls, who soon tired and their parents
sending them to attend, and are no more skill than reading, when they are ready, and some rudiments
of writing. Amparo needle hardly knew anything. The mother was resigned to the hope of placing
in Factory. - "That work - he said - as I worked." And whisper this sentence sighed, remembering
thirty years of incessant toil. Now the ground meat and bones tended happy in bed, lying on her
back where it lay sweating meantime others to maintain it. That sudasen!

Dominated by the terrible selfishness that often strikes older whose youth was laborious, The
colt was barred fifth recess pain. What is there and could come penalties; what is there to
bother Surely you heat or cold. What was necessary to wash clothes? Well, she had to get up
to soaps, had cost him dearly at once. What floor was dirty? Since the sweep, and if not for
her, even throughout the year is not swept .... What had helped him break both the body when you
were young? Now be seen cripple - "Oh, do not know what health is until after you lose!" -
exclaimed sententiously, especially those days when you atarazaba arthritic pain joints. Other times,
boastful as any invalid, said to his daughter: - "Sácateme front, which irritates see you,
of your age I was a wolf that was a quarter of an hour back to a house. "

Only missed the animation of his factory, the companions. A well that neighboring the street
used to come to offer a bit of Smalltalk: an especially Pepa midwife by Mrs. Porretta bad name.
This woman was huge, across even more than the top, it seemed a rough hewn statue to be seen
from afar. His face enormous, encircled by hanging jowls, serosa was pale. She wore men's
shoes and he wore a ring, male size also, in the little finger. Approached the bed prevented,
was referred to the clothing, we strongly supporting the pillow slapped both hands on the
thighs, in order to sustain mole on his belly, and hollow voice and began to refer off the
neighborhood gossip, lurid details of his profession, or the wonderful cures that can be achieved
with an infusion rue, egg and oil, mallow leaf machacadita well with
rosemary boiled in wine, with ointments fat of chicken.

Revilers whispered that between Parlet and Parlet ajar midwife used the handkerchief that
covered her shoulders and get a bottle easily hidden in any corner of her bra huge, and as corroborated
with a anise drink the exhausted his throat, and offered the bottle to his interlocutor "to scroll
the sorrows of this world. " A hearing of Mr. Rosendo came one day this kind, and was alarmed;
because while the factory was never his wife did not drink more than pure water, but much unwittingly
entered some evenings, did not catch the criminals red-handed. Just saw were very cronies
and buddies. For ex-cigarette Peru worth a midwife, at least this talk, because what's her
husband .... When returning from daily runs by walkways and public places, and the men dropped
down the tube with a crash at the corner of the room, the dialogue of marriage was always the
same:

- What? - Asked the cripple.

And Mr. Rosendo uttered one of these three sentences:

- Thank God Damn .-- .-- A regular.

Referred to the sale, and never gave gender if you added any amplification or scoliosis their
classic prayers. He had the unwavering popular laconic, which is due to pain, Hunger, death
and even joy. Soldier re-enlisted, yoked in their best years iron yoke of military discipline,
he was convinced from the idleness of the word and need of silence.

First silent obedience, then as fate, then out of habit.

In elaborated the wafers silence, quietly sold them, and almost shouted
one can say that silent, for there was nothing analogous to the affectionate
communication setting out the language among rational human beings,
that guttural cry that, perhaps to save a fragment word, the old suppressed
the last syllable, replacing them by prolonged suffering penultimate
vowel:

- Barquilleeeeé ....

-III-

Town of birth

In setting foot
on the street, Amparo breath broadly.

The sun reached its zenith, so glad everything.

In the doorways cats, curled up, had their backs to charity warmth, his eyes winking tiger and
snoring of taste. The chickens came and went digging. The barber's basin, hanging on the sample
and surrounded by a bunch of teeth and rancid, shone like silver. There was loneliness, the
neighbors had gone to church or Bure ½ dozen toddlers, entrusted to the Guardian Angel, pleasured
themselves in the dust and filth the stream, with the chola uncovered and exposed to typhus.
Amparo joined himself to a the lower windows, and knocked on the glass with his fist. The windows
were opened, and was the face of a brunette girl and discolored, which was holding a pillow to
till where he had nailed plenty of tiny pins.

- Hello!

- Hello, Carmela, to hang out with the work around? - It is a day
of mass.

- So I get angry ... said the pale girl, who spoke with
a lisp, own sea ??of ??small harbors in the province of Marineda.

-
Sal a little woman ... come with me.

- Today ... Who can!

There is a custom ... sixteen yards of lace for lady Top neighborhood
.... Tuesday will have to deliver without fail.

Carmela sat down again with her pillow in her lap, while the shoulders of Amparo rose between compassion
and indifference, as if Murmur - "The usual '--. He removed from there, and his feet came down
with great agility the steps of the Plaza de Abastos, full at the time of cooks and saleswomen,
and threading in between baskets of chickens, eggs, cheese, hit the streets of St. Ephrem, and then
to the churchyard, where he stopped dazzled.

The estate boasts a Sunday in a provincial capital could be seen gathered at the gate, that people
crossed over majestic of well-dressed and composed, tasty to be seen
and resolved to respect each other and not to promote pushing.

Lined the ladies waiting their turn, buntings and solemn, with lots
of lace mantilla, long devotional singing gold, much gold and pearl
beads, mothers dressed in black silk, girls marriageable, colorful
showy.

Upon arrival in the shutters gave beyond the entrance gate the ship,
had cracks in starched petticoats, soft shoves, elbows soft, breathing
obese women stirred, crosses for rosaries that hooked into a lace
or fringe, phrase groups with some vinegar, and - oh, you dispense
.... A push me, madam, so I .... Do not pull you so, it will break
the ornament .... Excuse me.

Amparo glided between the high society group marinedina, and entered
the temple.

To the sanctuary were placed the girls, kneeling to study, so as not to wrinkle christening
cloths, as had his head down, could be seen to whiten their necks,
and some elegant narrow soled boots tucked in the folds of silk skirts.

Downtown the ship was occupied by the picket and the military band, in correct formation. Both
sides, rows of men, who looked to the ceiling or the side chapels, as if they knew Why do
the eyes. Suddenly looked at the altar glimpse of gold and colors of a chasuble of cloth, the
contest was more silence, the ladies opened their books to gloved hands, and murmured the priest
time Introit and burst into loud chord charanga, voicing notes Traviatta
profane, full of hot beats and febrile erotic duet in the first act.

The metals are added vibrant intensity the song, which, rising broad and nurtured to the roof,
then spread down, content, but spirited, down the nave and transept, to stop suddenly to lift the
host, when this happened, real progress, powerful and magnificent burst of martial instruments
without at intervals ceases to be heard on the altar the mysterious ringing of the bell the acolyte.

At
the start, repeat the parade next to the battery were placed three or four of those already
not yet called dandies and rubbery, but chickens and roosters, making a move to dampen fingers in
holy water, and tending to lean well to get a fleeting damsels Contact gloves monitored by the watchful
eye of their moms. Once on the porch, it was permissible heads up, look around, smile, secretly
composed the blanket, search a familiar face and return a greeting. After the duty, pleasure,
and now the select crowd was going to walk, by invitation of the
music and the joy of a mild Sunday in March, the sun planted the joyful
atmosphere of gold atoms and warm scents of spring.

Amparo was carried away by the current and soon came to be in the ride.

He had then Marineda English park, walking time, beautified the premises: and Rows, which circled
over the winter mornings and summer evenings were a narrow street, paved with stone, some manned
by high row of houses, another by a number of banks that crowned crude allegorical statues
of the Stations Virtues, maimed and deprived of his hands and nose for mischief of boys. Acacia
shaded seats emaciated body of chlorotic foliage (when God gave it); buried under rocks everywhere,
as a prisoner in feudal tower. At that time lacked of leaves but the caress of the sun scorching
impelled to sap up to the buds to swell. The bare branches are silhouetted against the clear
tint of the sky, and far away the sea a metallic blue and burnished, it lay still seeing the
rigging and spars of vessels in the bay, and quiet until the impatient pennants of the masts.
Not a breath of wind, or anything of harmony of deep and sleepy peacefulness of the environment.

Dropped the handkerchief and receiving to lead the sun in his head, looked with great interest
Amparo show that the walk had. Ladies and gentlemen, turning in the short stretch of Rows,
a slow and measured, carefully guarding the right.

The relentless solar light blue shiny black cloth of the Levites, the strong colors softening
silks, discovered the minor imperfections of the complexion, salseo the gloves the site of the
old stitches on clothing and reformed. It was difficult to know at first glance, the notables
of the city: a row of tall felt hats, canes of cane or shell-handled gold, beaver coats, all as
in horsemen proiects and Seriot, clearly revealed to the authorities, ruling, judges, second
place, Governor civil, six or seven pearl-gray trousers, a pair of light gloves, vibrant denounced
ties the gilded youth, a few parasols of satin, a bunch of clothes that transcended import
a thousand leagues from Madrid, indicated to the owners of the scepter of fashion. People passed,
and went back to pass, and were continually passing, and each turn
was being renovated same profession in the same order.

A group of infantry and cavalry officers occupied a whole bank, and the sun appeared concentrated
there, attracted by the glow of gold braid and stars, the pants red, the flash of sword sheaths
and shiny rubber hull of roses. The officers, people of good humor and almost all young, laughing,
chatting and even playing elegant with a swarm of girls, and most would add twelve years, down from
the lowest three. Smaller ones were sitting on the knees, while the other, standing and some glimpses
of women's shyness and modesty, did not dare get too close to the bank, pretending who talked among
themselves, when really only catering to the conversation of the military.