 Sciatica
and a host of neuralgias of the genre demand their use, and you can switch with bryony. The toothache
offers more diagnostic difficulties, because the movement of jaws not substantially modified,
it is distinguished from that of other drugs, by rheumatic origin, and belonging to the bryony
and nux vomica, in which the first is more regular, and in the past erethism there are more general.
The toothache, finally, that shows how the other corresponding to this drug, offers general feeling
of excoriation relieved by heat or by the outward impression of cold air, joining the tingling sensation
in the interval of the shootings.

Spasms and convulsions own ivy always depend on a cause asthenic and are usually the prelude
to paralysis. Stiffness, numbness or tingling, accompany and follow the shock spasmodic. Eclampsia,
tetanus and chorea, produced by cooling in water, are the main indications.

Curing Paralysis rhus, is the result of acute conditions, local, and mainly febrile, in nervous fevers,
ataxic, and typhoid. This paralysis is not general but affects one side of the body, with particularity
the lower extremities. The cause is usually a rheumatic condition; happens to the pain, sciatica and
more. In this case, paralysis sometimes incomplete. With regard to the paralysis of sumac own, be
aware that weaken the intellectual powers and annihilate on the muscle of other body parts. Such,
then, the trend of this medicine: weakening of the forces organic and psychic power.

= D = skin ailments .-- According to the characters already known
of the action of ivy, it is unnecessary present the indications of
this product with a view to testing.

Is special in vesicular erysipelas, especially in the face with common febrile symptoms, in certain flictenóides
eruptions, ruddy, with fever, thirst, insomnia, burning large occupying almost all is as abraded
skin and in the area to which mercury can be used before, but not arsenic and graphite, or
even the causticum, in spite of being shown a few times. Sumac is very useful in several cases
of recurrent erysipelas and detachment of the epidermis and exudation of a yellow serum sometimes
dries and forms a herpes crustacean. After of sumac, are usually necessary to remove the remains
of redness and swelling, calcium carbonate and graphite.

Some rubicundeces venous nose, fingers ... or efflorescence Rosaceae and frostbite can be treated
successfully with sumac, if the skin is smooth and no tension and
burning the rough may be alternated with the sumac in these cases.

No ivy is lower than wild pansy, but he Staphysagria, in the eruptions of the face known as
the cradle cap and creeping, with background on and serous exudation which produces the fall
and restoration of the crust. Eruptions on the scalp moist with redness in her around, demanding
and often sumac laurel-rose and graphite. Ringworm with vesicles, which exude a liquid puriforme
plates, which is preferably rhus required.

Vesicular eruptions, and pustular flictenóides are more similar skin conditions to this drug.
Consecutive crusts lie on a red base, secretes serum, There are itching and burning, sometimes
they are lazy.

In general, the eruptions impetiginosa on ruddy and purple background, especially in children, give
it to rhus. You can, however, Staphysagria be preferable, just as in eczema what is mercury, and
the dry form, oil, charcoal, subcarbonate potash and salt.

Not complete the study of this medicine without indicating the ease with which certain conditions
skin or mucous local sympathetic to the brain.

This depends on when Estense surface or asthenic character or putrid, include in the epidermal and
epithelial injury large number of taste nerve to the brain that transmit local alteration to
his character asthenic and putrid. This is what is observed in hives rashes on base ruddy flictenóides
eruptions with denudation of the large expanse dermis in certain rubicundeces erythematous vesicular
some epidemic diarrhea and bronchitis, and irritation old the stomach with dyspepsia and vomiting
from obstruction of the mucous membrane.

= Dose .=-- The dose of sumac are the same as those of aconite, the
bryony, the juniper .....

Sabina (Sabina).

§ I. - History.

The juniper is a family of conifers, Juss monadelfia .-- In the dioecious, Linn .-- This drug is
almost forgotten today, even in metrorrhagia and arthritic conditions. It abandons the Apparently,
with the rude rude empiricism which makes them an illegal use, regardless
medical practice these properties can be found in the more precious
the more strongly be deduced from the physiological tests and clinical
facts.

What little has been written a century ago is enough to inspire confidence
in this drug, otherwise very active.

In a few pages as disclosed, it being sufficient to effect a picture
esperimentales synthetic and clinical data.

Physiological effects .-- § II.

Can these be divided into three groups from which their properties.

The first expresses its activities in the heart blood and hair of the same name, the second neural
relationship, the third in the plasticity and interstitial nutrition. It is, however, indispensable
complete the study of this drug, as we have discussed several times in this area Medical and are
convinced of how much you can earn with new and more complete experiments.

Erethism dominates the symptoms of the three groups. The first is rather spasm of febrile invasion
and the period of concentration that general inflammatory element, is more typical of hemorrhagic
active congestion of the Fluxion flegmásica. The second seems that part of the periphery rather
nervous tree to the atmosphere and taste nerve are relations of action and reaction with the blood
capillary system, which centers; of which is that always lead to
neuralgias Lampwork fluxion the affected part, or at least, are consecutive
in the same.

The third is a consequence of the first and the last term of the affection of the arterial capillaries,
where deposits are tophaceous the periostosis, burning sensations, the abrasions, crusty sores,
night sweats, erectile tumors, warts.

The action of juniper is directed mainly uterus, mucous membranes,
tissues whites and to the joints, which influence predominant explanations,
ranging its sphere of action, on the lymphatic system and nutritious,
and the fullness thereof, systems on arterial, capillary and nervous.

§ III .-- therapeutic effects.

The therapeutic effects are few, but well established. It is said that the juniper Aconite is
the uterus, in the sense that its action on the system Ereta arterial more pronounced mainly
in the uterus, in a manner opposite to that of rye ergot. The Sabina has a property admirably effective
in periods excess, congestion and active bleeding of this body. In strong women, or of a temperament
more delicate, but blood and nervous system, correcting blood loss in color red in of strong constitution
also corresponds sometimes to the black blood flow and venous as arterial pulsations were felt almost
everywhere, there are palpitations and pulse strong, but delayed
in short, in the state of orgasm plethora of blood and uterine in
women weak and annihilated, but the blood system irritability, loss
venous blood are more common in the state and congestive plethora
Ereta the uterus.

For other bleeding, especially the lung, the juniper is little different from the Brioni giving preference
to this, and even the aconite and arnica. Insist on one more time their relationships to the
uterus. An indication of the juniper is always a uterine irritability with active congestion, blood
and nervous excitement, which expresses the increase of venereal desires for contractive pains in
the womb, like labor pains, great sensitivity and even turgor or tingling in the breasts. Under
these conditions, periods are excesses, are up to twice a month,
and last for eight or ten days, or rise up metrorrhagia.

The blood usually has a red color, though sometimes blackish.

Girls who have heavy periods and very frequent, not always be considered and sick. The more plethoric
and early, or the more blood and irritability are, but the prudent physician should attend to
the precocity of the passions whose satisfaction is made usually late, and more should stop
to consider these flows to menstrual escedentes as an outlet that nature uses to maintain
balance between the flow blood for the generation, but caused by social custom, and the delay
the satisfaction of instinctual needs of the uterus. Attempt in these cases contain blood loss
of the genital organs, it exposes people to congestion pulmonale, a uterine orgasm, leading
to the consumption or the hysteria. Should the doctor limited to the administration of weak
doses of belladonna and carbonate of lime, juniper same, without attempting to violate nature,
or even less blood which operate depletions effect would perpetuate
a state that age gradually changed, and the marriage cure.

In any other circumstance, the quiet sabina erethism successful uterine congestive regulates
menstrual flow, cures metrorrhagia, moderates the excesses and extends lochia its action to the blood
loss that extend beyond the critical age, not only plethoric women, but in those of delicate constitution
or broken with predominant action congested and irritable uterus,
as seen above symptoms and arterial pulsations felt in several parts.

The plethora, orgasm matrix with erethism and excitement of sexual appetite, dependent rather
the state of the bodies of moral rules is a condition sometimes opposed to the corruption
of morals and a cause of infertility. The correct sabina this state regularizing the vitality of the
uterus and reducing the abundance and frequency of menstruation is the result more general. Some doses
of calcium carbonate help effectively to achieve this result.

The same medication is used to advantage in the provisions abortion that recognize the same causes.

With regard to the ownership of the juniper to reduce menstruation and cure excesses metrorrhagia due
to the plethora erethism and uterine, an observation suggests EXPERIENCE differentiates the action
of this drug from that of any other employee in opposite states, ie plethora erethism and uterine, but
with suppression or difficult menstruation. This observation consists in that, just as certain
drugs have an elective action on the system and not on the venous blood, on the nerve centers
and not on the periphery and expansively catamenial congestion of the juniper occupies mainly the
arterial capillaries limits the erethism and irritability, and tends, however, to activate
the bleeding by only venous capillaries are engorged, they receive, but can not hold or throw,
but only delete.

Aconite and a few drugs that act on the system blood and are more frankly sthenic others, act
the same way that the juniper active bleeding in general.

The juniper and its physiological effects is very similar to the drop, especially if irregular, for
access or incomplete, and rheumatoid arthritis, but people always temper blood, irritable or
ebullient.

The pain is lancinating dislacerantes, mainly affect joints and the periosteum of long bones, or
feel a burning pain and Pressing. The cool air soothes them, and are accompanied by sensation of
heaviness and discomfort in the general.

In rheumatic diseases is usually red and shiny swelling of the joints. This inflammation occurs
in the big toe gout where the juniper own. The bryony and arnica, in union with the former,
are the most appropriate drugs in erethism acute, or blood.

The juniper is also effective in a multitude of gouty and rheumatic diseases: in headache or
congestive headaches, pulsating and dizzying, with the diminution of hearing and vision for frequent
congestion heat, tension, local arterial pulsations, in toothache with shooting pain, pressing,
throbbing, aggravation by movement of the jaws and the heat of the
bed in congestive tonsils tonsils occupied and the pillars of palate,
even with throbbing and heat in dyspepsia irritative with a sensation
of fullness, lancinacion, heat, pressure in epigastrium, irregular
bowel movements, gas expulsion, in piles fluent, irritant, tingling,
and more generally bloody mucus flow.

When the drop in short has disfigured joints with concretions deposited tofáceas at different points,
the juniper is also useful even in people weakened and nutrition
altered, because the impulse of the heart is still strong and alive,
and because there are general irritability, a state of tension which
excludes the normal mucus secretions and asthenic.

Swediaur sabina successfully used to combat red vegetations and condyloma [17].

Others, after him, have obtained results in the production eSCelente sicósicas that were reluctant
to yours and nitric acid in small doses. Diseases of the periosteum is also fighting with the
juniper in local phlogosis conditions and irritability can not rely primarily phosphorus, mercury,
silicon ..... The juniper is still useful when in these circumstances, an injury that develops necrotic
bone, and a very ulceration painful burning edges, shiny and tight.
Finally, the inflammatory and pruritic vaginal discharge with well-formed
pus, fetid, thick, is fought successfully with the juniper, if there
are provisions generally analogous to its effects