 1

Is up and down some small hills to Huayamacan.

2-1/2

It follows then by the slope, and slopes very spacious, even the hamlet of Fort. 1

You have to climb a small hill, and then lower it on a path of the most rugged, to Sampulo. 1

Is
up and down two, whose paths are equally terrible, to the river of Amantala, which quite wide,
always carries a substantial amount of water.

1

River of Amantala climbs a mountain for the space of a league, and
you walk the same, following for their side, until arriving at Ayapata.

2

To be lower after spinal-Raqui. 1

After the hill to Santa Rosa.

1

Still have to climb to Cuquiputa. 1 / 2

                        And to Cruz Pata or San-Jose. 1 / 2

Then get off, climb and walk up the side of the hills to Petiapo. 2

After having fallen into the valley of leg, walking a mile. 1

And across the river of the same name, full of dead ends, we just need to raise another league to be
finally in town. 1

TOTAL 33

PATA

This canton, situated on a hill covered with grasses and plants as they boscage sparse consists
of a few huts placed in a row, its inhabitants are Quechua Indians,
scarcely reach the number one hundred and sixty-five.

This small population enjoys, in the middle the most fertile country in the world, moist and
warm temperament, so nice. Despite the scarcity of water undergoes, even in the same village,
the surrounding places offer immense resources, both for breeding cattle and for growing plants
tropical. The wide beaches Tuyche River is within walking distance of their forests banks, Piliapo
plains, the valley of San-Antonio, and many other spot where usurp people to the constant action
wild vegetation some particles of land for their crops, prove in fact the great fertility of the
regions most deserted.

Nothing but the cultivation of the land, could stay there a large population, while at present only
a handful of men who are lost, so to speak and, on that still virgin soil.

Today, people collect enough for them, rice, maize, yucca, of bananas, sugarcane and peanuts,
but trade is only a little rice and snuff, which often change by
gender and clothing.

There are some, however, prefer rover to go to forest to collect natural products such as husks,
the balsam, storax, incense and incense. These Indians also engaged in fishing for shad and catfish
abound in the river Tuyche, as well as countless hunting birds, monkeys
of various species, deer, or a thousand other beasts who roam the
forests.

                                                          

The hills could certainly provide the necessary food for many grazing
troops of cattle, but currently do not have the people above thirty
cows, for the havoc they cause tigers [1] so abundant in those regions,
and those unable to pursue freely in the rainy season wild prey, they
go to the high places, where to eat have to attack the cattle.

  

Pata is located seven miles east-southeast of Santa
  Cruz de Valle Ameno: to aim of him with this
  last point, take a path forward for the mules, carrying
  the itinerary following:
  
  Leagues.
  
  From Leg moving up a slope to Huichu-huichu easy.

1-1/2 continues then the slope of the mountain
  to Temptation. 1-1/2
                                                        
                                  Then it goes down a very bad way to the beating.

1 / 2

There is then a swampy plain and full of holes in which they have
had to put many crossed logs to facilitate the movement: however,
the bad construction of this road and the little care that they have
of it, make these routes is very difficult for the mules, especially
in the rainy season.

Crossing this level is reached San-Juan-Pampa.

3

Where there is but a bad road to walk to get in Santa Cruz de Valle Ameno. 1 / 2 -------- TOTAL
leagues 7

Twelve miles to the north-west of Pata is its annexed Moxos: to be transported to this place
must cross the river Tuyche, following after the mountains until they reached a valley which
is situated in the village.

MOXOS.

Built on a hill covered in grass plants parties, the village near
which are fertile and well adapted to the cultivation of the land
for raising cattle, especially in the valleys and streams, apparently
meets some more or less the same circumstances found in his parish
but although its population is not as swollen as this, it only consists
of one hundred and twenty souls, their position is much more advantageous
with respect to the conditions.

Effectively placed in a more elevated site, valleys can produce tropical
plants, and plants surrounding mountains areas temperate, such as
wheat, potatoes, etc. The flames, these docile beasts, penetrate to
bringing the mercaducarías Moxos, which is a plus for the trade, being
mules cost much higher.

There could also be raised cattle with great advantage, as well as the work spread abroad tillage
and gold mines on the mountain more directly to the mountain.

APOLLO-BAMBA [1].

The town of Apollo, today capital of the province, was founded about the middle of last century
by Franciscan missionaries, who met at that point to the natives of the nation Apollos, and
formed a mission, which having been stuck in the year 1800 to the other neighboring towns people came
to compose the province of Caupolican.

Apollo is situated in the center of a plain, slightly wavy and plant cover grasses. This plain, bounded
on the south by mountains to the valleys and their corners These are, give a very picturesque,
is five to six miles wide, and its length extends from north to south,
about twelve to fourteen, appearing one oblong.

Al this is raised, similar to a wall, a large mountain that runs from north to south, and to that
of their great elevation has been called Altuncama. There is a low hill west, filed between
Apollo and the plains of Santa Catalina which come to occupy the west and southwest. The Last Valley
horizontal, which is twelve miles long on five wide, is covered part of grasslands, and Tupili
crosses the river, whose banks are adorned widths and thick forests, which so contrasted with
the rest satin, they seem to have been planted by human hands.

The village consists of three distinct groups. The first is located before moving the river,
and consists of scattered houses: in this group, called the bias of the Concepcion, is where
they are established merchants of all kinds of fruit, and whom the native inhabitants are in
their particular language Matagua name, ie outsiders. The second group located in the center and
on a slight hill of red clay is on the other side of the river, and contains the town hall,
parish church and convent of the Franciscans, whose facade that faces east, overlooking a square in
which the sides north and south are composed of several buildings, and the eastern border to the
convent, a number of houses inhabited by indigenous people: these houses, each of which has
a single door and about fifteen to twenty yards long, are placed on the hill an amphitheater,
so that from the convent is found all that happens inside of them.

Such was the manner in which the Franciscans had provisions in order to be at the sight of all
the steps of the Indians, and to ensure their actions. At that time, traders who came to the province,
were forced to stay in the convent make their exchanges in the presence of the religious. A
creek separates this second part, the third group that is located on the path of Aten, and
arranged in the same order we have just seen in that.

Apollo temperature is pleasant and healthy, but let their free access plains to all the winds,
the air becomes drier than in Santa Cruz. There are grown the same fruits than in other districts,
but coca is the only important object of trade barter. Also there in Apollo as two thousand
to two thousand five hundred head of livestock, and its inhabitants were a little more industrious
and neat, would have certainly all kinds of goods in abundance. A single fact will suffice
to justify this assertion, as regards to the great procreation of the stock. An Indian named
Pedro Chambi, had met with the product fifteen cows their industry,
dedicated to breeding as carefully then, so came to multiply, it was
the large number sold by him while he lived, still left in 1828, at
the end of his days, like a thousand heads.

It is seen that with some care because the plains and could easily be covered hills of livestock,
both cattle and sheep, and even perhaps to equine. It would be equally possible that Altuncama
mountains, in view of his elevation, produjesen vines and potatoes.

The draw-modified hulls some way to be both of these people, teaching them to estimate the positive
value of things, and giving an idea of ??money. For trade in this particular have come to know
too many other objects, they were entirely ignored, and in whose possession they enjoy today's
comforts. If I had continued this trade, there is no doubt that the inhabitants of Apollo would already
well advanced in the way of a civilization, fighting relentlessly against those who have become
directors of these Indians, under the stupid pretext the business relationship with the foreigners
corrupting their morals. Although this can be verified sometimes, why not have to deny the
immense advantages which must necessarily bring get the frequency of these relationships. The
nature of these people, indigenous people all Apollos them in the nation, whose number does not pass
two thousand seven hundred and seventy-five is the most peaceful, and gentle, pleasure-loving, looking
at all the fun. The numerous festivals of Christianity, yet increased local usage, provided they
Used frequently meet to give herself the happy and playful danses, stimulated by repeated libations
of brandy, which misused by some to be deprived of reason. Such is the way go through life
without thinking of dealing, or in their future, nor in that of their children, probably relying
on the natural wealth of the country, whose products are sufficient to satisfaction of their needs. With
a lively and light, have a lot of skill to imitate as they show, so we gather all the qualities that
make them susceptible of civilized, but soon, maybe the same indigenous Andean nations. Lack only
to enable it to carry out some benevolent men, stripped of their interests particular, want to
devote to the development of intellectual faculties of these Indians
and his social education, moral governor and physically.

                                                        Apollo southeast of the town of Aten, a distance of nine miles per
itinerary following:

Leagues.

Leaving Apollo, beat about the plain-Chico Bridge. 1

From here to Puente Grande. 2

And to arrive at Pampa-Tupili.

3

                                                        
                                                     Go up the slope after Chímasacro-Large, 1

Then go down, it and take
the slope to Chímasacro-Chico.

1

And he finally goes to Athens. 1

-------- TOTAL 9

SANTA CRUZ VALLEY AMENO.

Its position has made him delightful to Santa-Cruz deserve the nickname of Valle Ameno. Nothing
indeed could be more charming, more picturesque and lively than their surroundings, or that it
is more peaceful and cheerful your home.

Located on a plain, on a slope scarcely perceptible leaning to the south, and at the foot of
a conical hill, this village is also surrounded by low hills, but they will gradually rising towards
the north to reach higher to form mountains, which are topped with elegant palm trees whose
foliage mingles with the drinks giant tree more robust. The contrast presented plains with
hills covered with exquisite and varied vegetation, stream Santa-Cruz River that runs through
all of this table, scattering a healthy freshness, attends all in order to make this place
more enjoyable point of the province.

Although small, it contains only nine hundred forty-one inhabitants, some of them nation of
Apollo, the parish of Santa Cruz is very neat, and looking at its beautiful contours, easily
divert attention from the irregularity of its streets and buildings. Field surrounding it
produces in abundance all the fruits of the torrid zone, so their people are all farmers, not
only collect enough for their consumption, but they also do some trade with their abundance,
for which they put to air cure the sun the fruits of banana, cut into long strips or slices,
that after of dried apricots are transformed into eSCelente. Also prepare and coca snuff, and all
these products come to serve them to operate their exchanges, for want of money in coins,
has not yet entered it into circulation.

Are active as the inhabitants of Santa Cruz in the breeding of cattle, which is achieved with much
advantage over the hills. There are times when actively engaged in the collection of the husk,
forest rover of the surrounding mountains, but found these and so destroyed, which at present are required
to run ten or twelve miles to get to find it. With regard to fishing and to the hunting this
region is as abundant as the Pata, and natural products are entirely the same: it has been found,
however, in the forests of Santa Cruz, countless woods of the finest cabinetry and beautiful, such
as guava, granadillo, etc.

In short, if the population wanted to take advantage of all resources
is surrounded, engaging more actively, to the raising of livestock,
agriculture within the land so fertile and where nature gives you
full hands treasures, to the judicious EXTRACTION graduated from the
chaff and tillage, in short, mines of gold and lead, said be in the
mountains of Santa Clara, no doubt it would get double their riches,
but to this would be overcome first the natural apathy, which leads
to these indigenous people to not work but the very measured to obtain
the things necessary to existence.

Truth is also it was necessary to move and activate your ambition, a larger population and markets
exportation of more outstretched.

Santa-Cruz was a very safe place until the year 1830, which already began to feel some diseases,
hitherto unknown, and vigorously attacking the inhabitants. Today on day intermittent fevers
have settled there his domain. Some people have believed that came from this in the introduction
of trees in the hot valleys [1], but according to my observations on the province of Valle Grande
[2], I think such a change is rather due to deforestation caused by fires, where residents are
accustomed to promote each year with the aim of renewing the grass of the plains and hills. The fact
is that many places, very healthy in the past, are at present invaded by this pest destructive,
which is increasing in proportion as it extends clearing.

It is therefore the duty of the government taking a wise move to cut the progress of such
evil, and improve where possible tainted sites.

                                                         

Santa-Cruz is located west-southwest of Apollo Bamba.

To come to this place will go five leagues by the following schedule:

Leagues.

Go

up the hill of Santa Teresa. 1

                                                   He gets after it, until Huilipisa.

1

And it follows then by a plain to Bacqueria. 1

Where you have to walk for a ground well, until they came to Apollo. 2

TOTAL 5

ATEN.

This town, old mission of the Franciscans, is located amidst mountains, a hollow pretty equal, and their
houses, though regular, are scattered. The climate is hot and humid, very healthy therefore,
in spite of the rain that falls there frequently. Its culture, its production and trade are
of the same nature as in Apollo críanse also some cattle in the grassy plains of Tupili.

The number of inhabitants reaches, more or less one thousand thirty-three; these Indians belong to
a nation different from the Apollo, and speak the language Tacana, perhaps one of the most shocking
and hard, as well as the most guttural of America. His character, similar language, is irascible,
stubborn, full of arrogance, and little merry, are nevertheless more inclined to work than Apollos,
especially to agriculture and to scrutinizing raids within the forests. Each individual of this
population, as we have said elsewhere hand, is obliged to build his
own, without help from others, the house has later living with his
family, if it comes to miss the practice, probably conserved from
its savage state, is filled with shame, stripping the dignity of man.

Lavish in the extreme and friends of the show, and always longing to purchase ornaments to
spruce lucid they and their wives, no jobs, painful as they are, they are not willing to take To
obtain such satisfaction. Preferred over all other glasses and silverware, as an ornament
to place on their desks, or the strange dress, covered in gallons
embroidery and shiny, with which to go up to the processions of the
Catholic religion trying to distinguish itself from others by the
brilliance and uniqueness of such trappings.

The features of the Athenians are quite rough, with no difference in this between both sexes
have short, flat nose, too swarthy complexion, and almost all are dotted with white spots on the
body and face, helping them to look very strange.

An episode in the history of the province, particularly to Aten, will know the nature of their inhabitants
[1]. In 1811, in consequence of having been defeated by the Spanish detachment patriot army, which
under the command of General Pinelo was heading towards Cuzco La-Paz, Dr. Doll, chief secretary
and church that much credit, he took refuge with some other officers and patriots Larecaja Valley,
where he managed to influence in crowds to revolt against the Spanish people. After a long
and bitter struggle, after having fought with heroic courage in the cause of freedom and independence,
these improvised soldiers having been finally defeated by the battle-hardened troops and ordered
of the Spanish, saw himself forced to leave Larecaja Dolls, where he went, with some of their
own, by the river Iuyo to Aten. Immediately the Indians revolted and managed Athenians Apollo
seize them. The Spanish, who lost sight of him, soon soon send troops to fight. Captain D. Agustin
Gamarra was commissioned for this company; and having come to win every game to the Patriots, so
inferior in number, so little hardened, and entirely devoid of weapons, was ready for decision-Aten,
which was to crown his triumph. Twelve Athenians, led by Captain Pariaman unable stand in the
open field to a hundred soldiers to five hundred regular troops and archers, were ambushed
at the distance of a league from the village, in a dense forest [2]
which is situated on a hill there resolved to die rather than surrender
to the enemy.

After a two-hour battle, Pariaman Captain was the only one who came to save, and Gamarra, that
he was master of the field, following the custom of the Spanish, began to punish the most egregious
manner to all those he supposed to have taken up arms to join the patriot army.

Persecution increasing day by day, and each time with more rigor, an Indian named Joseph Pacha,
who was one of the most committed, proposed twenty or thirty families to abandon their homes to go
to find the best kept quiet in the forest. The migrant population away because, driven by
Pacha, looking for a venue where she could not get to be discovered; and having crossed the desert,
finally stopped in a ravine, to which he gave Irimo name: in this place, situated about twelve
or fourteen miles east of Athens, remained These Indians more than seven years without being
could discover. As the wary Pacha had Great care had to take whatever steps are necessary,
nothing was missing from the new colony. To planted cotton dress, and while men were engaged
in hunting and clearing of land, the women wove and took care of housework. Pacha, which is head
of the colony was established a very strict internal police, distributing
jobs depending on age and gender, and all work was done in common,
alternating so that one day dealing with the culture, the next went
to the game, and vice versa; so that all products were distributed
equally, as if there were more than one family