 

Confused and desperate Memnon was returned to his home, where he found a note inviting me to
intimate dinner with some friends. If I stay home alone, he said, will have concerns with the
mood my sad adventures, eating, and falling evil, but it make a frugal meal with my friends
intimate, and with his pleasant company to forget the nonsense that this morning I made. Was
to treat, and seeing that I was a bit sad, he was forced to drank to dispel his melancholy. The wine
used in moderation is medicine for the encouragement and for the body, so I thought the wise
Memnon, and got drunk. Proponenle desktop play a hand: a game where you go through recently,
is an innocent diversion. Play and win him quanto had in his pocket, and four times more about
his word. Give rise to a dispute about the game, the spirits irritans, throws one of his intimate
friends a cup head you take out an eye, and bring home the wise Memnon drunk, penniless, and
with an eye less.

Having slept a little wolf, sent his servant to house the treasurer general of income Nineveh,
to give him money to pay his close friends, and the servant brings new that that morning had
made a bad faith bankruptcy debtor, with the qual dexaba by doors a hundred families. Memnon be
spiteful palace with a eye patch and a memorial in hand, asking for justice to the king of the
bankrupt, and is in a room with many ladies, all backwards like tops with elegant tontillos
twenty feet in circumference, and gowns thirty tail. One that he knew something, he said the
sideways facing you: iJesus, how awful! Y another that he knew more: Good afternoon, sir Memnon,
really, I'm glad Mr. Memnon much to see you:? like that you are one-eyed, Mr. Memnon? and said
this, he left without waiting for response. Agazapose Memnon in a corner, waiting to be able
to throw at the feet of the monarch. His Majesty arrived, Memnon kiss the ground three times,
and gave his memorial, which took the sovereign with great kindness, and handed him one of
his lieutenants, to give her account. Call The satrap of Memnon aside, and says in a tone of mockery
and gesture of insult: Donoso eyed you are, because you dare to give the king a memorial that
has not passed through my hands, and you commit to it the bombing of a failed demand justice honored
that this Baxo my fortress, and nephew a maid service to my dear. Do not give more step in the
matter, at your peril good eye you have left.

Thus, having given up in the morning Memnon of girls, of feasting, games, of contention, and
most of the palace before nightfall had been deceived and cheated
by a herniosa lady, had drunk, he had played, he had an eye removed,
and had been to the palace where he had laughed at him.

Confused, lost, and surrendered to the weight of his sorrow he was returning home half dead,
and going to enter, he found it full of sheriffs and clerks who carried the furniture behalf
of its creditors. Paros almost meaningless vnder a banana, and meets the lovely lady that morning,
which was still walking around with her beloved uncle, and could not be have to laugh at the sight
of Memnon with his patch. Night fell, and lay down on a heap Memnon straw, near the walls
of his house Entrol fever, is lethargic with the strength of her and appeared in a dream a heavenly
spirit, And he shone like the sun, and had six beautiful wings but no feet, no head or tail,
and not like any thing. Who are you? Memnon said to him. Your good genius, he replied. For me
again, "said Memnon, my eye, my health, my wealth, my sanity, and once told him that he had lost
everything so that day. Adventures are these, "replied the spirit, that never happen in the world
where we live. ? In what world you live? told him the suffering. My country, 'said the genius,
is far Five hundred million miles from the Sun, and is one star next to Sirius, you are looking
at from here. Ilinden country! Memnon, he said. ? With rogues you have not betraying the men well,
not close friends that they cheat their money and take out an eye, or debtors who fail, or
satraps that you laugh at you Quando justice denied? No, I said to the inhabitants of the star,
none of that: we do not deceive the women, because there are none, do not over- gluttony, because
we do not eat, or there are debtors who fail, because we have no silver or gold; We can not
tear your eyes, because it seems our body to yours, and the satraps
commit injustices, because we are all equal.

Memnon then said to him: Lord illustrious, "without girls without eating, when you pass the time? In
care, he said the genius, the other balloons that are at our expense, and I am here to console.
Alas! Memnon replied,? because you came last night, and You might have hindered me to such nonsense?
Because I was in Asan, your older brother, told him the inhabitant of heavens, the qual is more
unfortunate than you, having your gracious majesty the king of the Indies where you can admire
the honor of being employed, mandadole out both eyes by a slight fault, and holding him in
a dungeon, tied hand and foot. Pardi, Memnon exclaimed that we are thrives on having a good
genius in our family, two brothers if one is blind, and one eyed, one lying on straw, and another
in jail. Your luck is moved, replied the animal star: truth is that you will be one-eyed life,
but as it is not, you will live pretty happy, provided they never make the misguided purpose
of being completely sane. ? With that this is something that is not possible to achieve? Memnon replied
pulling a sob. As it is not possible, "replied the other, be fully intelligent, fully-strong,
fully powerful, or completely happy. We ourselves are very distant to be so, a balloon is to
the truth where all this is, but everything goes by degrees in a hundred billion seeded worlds
in space. In the second there is less pleasure and less wisdom in the first, in the third less
than in the second, and so continues till the last, where all the world is completely crazy.
I am afraid, he said Memnon, that our globe is just the house of lunatics in the universe, you're
saying. Not so much as that, he said the spirit, but he is nearby, and that everything must take
its appointed place. In this case, he said Memnon, very some poets are misguided, and some philosophers,
who say everything is fine. Have reason, 'said the philosopher of this world, if they see the
placement of the entire universe. iha! replied Memnon poor, I do
not believe as it may one eye.

       

End of Memnon.

* * * * *

THE two consoles.

Said one day the great philosopher cytophylic a distraught lady, and had every reason to be: the
Lady, the Queen of England, daughter of the great Henry quarto, was no less unfortunate than you:
the cast of his kingdom, he was on the verge of dying in the ocean in a shipwreck, and King
witnessed the death of her husband on a scaffold. Much sorry, 'said the lady, and returned
to mourn their own misfortunes.

Remember, he said Cilofilo, Mary Stuart, who was honestly in love
with a handsome musician I had excellent voice of choristers.

Her husband killed the musician, and then his good friend and relative, the Queen Elizabeth, who
was called maiden, sent him to cut his head in a hanging scaffold
Mourning, after having been eighteen years in prison. iCruel success!
replied the lady; and give back to your affliction.

Mentar well have heard, followed the dildo, the lovely Joanna of Naples, which was seized and hanged.
I have a confused idea that, 'said the afflicted.

I will tell you, "said the other, the adventure that happened in my time in a sovereign dethroned
after dinner, and who died on a desert island. All that history is, "replied the lady.

Well tell you what happened to another great princess, my disciple of philosophy. She had her lover
as he is absolutely beautiful and great princess one day his father entered his room, and grabbed
the lover on her face and eyes that shone like two carbuncles, and
Princess also very red face.

Dislike both father of the boy's face, he shook the most massive blow to the day that has stuck
throughout the province. Grabbed the lover pliers, and broke the head of the lady's father, who was
a long time to death, and still has the sign of the injury: the Princess was careless shot through
the window, and spoiling a leg, so that even today it is known that Coxe, although it has beautiful
body. Her lover was sentenced to death for having broken his head
at such a high prince.

Now you can think in that state would be the princess, when taken out to hang with her lover, I was going
to do with frequeencia, when she was in jail, and I always talked about his misfortunes.

? Because they are unhappy that it hurts me of mine? the lady said to him. Because it is not successful
grieve for their misfortunes, and that having been so unfortunate
as many leading ladies, does not seem right that I despair.

Hecuba Behold, behold a Niobe.

Ha, 'said the lady, if I had lived at the time, or so many beautiful
princesses, and their comfort You might have told them my misfortunes?
would have you heard anything?

        

The next day the philosopher lost his only son, and came close to
that feeling die.

Mrs. command to list all the monarchs who had lost their children,
and took her to the philosopher, the qual read it, found them very
timely, and continued crying.

After Three months turned to see, and was astonished to be very happy.

Then lifted a beautiful statue of the time with this label:

THE COMFORTER.

End of the two consoles.

* * * * *

HISTORY

OF VIAG

Of castigating,

WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.

In the city of Candia I came to the world the year 1600. My father was the governor, and I remember
a poet less than average, if only mildly unkempt style, called Azarria,
made some bad verses in praise of mine, where I described as a descendant
quale Minos in a straight line, but then removed the government having
my father wrote further in I was the grandson of Pasiphae and her
lover.

Mal sugeto this was indeed the Azarria, and most annoying villain in the entire island had.

Fifteen
years had Quando my father sent me to study in Rome, and hoping I get to learn all the truths,
because until then I had been taught the opposite of truth, as is
use in this world, from China to the Alps.

Profondo Monsinor, who was recommended sugeto was rare, and one of the most terrible wise in the
world had. Quisome training in the categories of Aristotle, and almost puts me in their Gitonas:
good me free. Vi processions, exorcisms, and quite a few robberies. They said, though against
all indeed, that the Siniora Olympia, very prudent lady, was selling some things that are
not usually sold. My age it all seemed very funny. It occurred to a maiden lady, and very mild
condition, Siniora called Fatel, fall in love with me: the reverend
father obsequiabanla Punalini and Aconiti the reverend father, a religious
congregation no longer exists, and put according to both of giving
me her favors, but I was in danger of being poisoned and excommunicated.

Rome Dexe very pleased with the architecture of San Pedro.

Trip to France, where the seasoning Luis Reyna to the right, and the first thing I asked was for
my lunch if I wanted a piece of Marshal d'Ancre, who had roast people, and they sold it very
cheap to those who wanted to buy their meat to give away.

Was this a continuous state of civil war drama, sometimes for a place in the council, and other two
pages of theological disputes. More than sixty years to which they were these beautiful weather stricken
by this volcano which sometimes dimmed, and other was burning with
violence, and that was the liberties of the Gallican church.

Alas! dixe, this town is of natural quiet:? who has brought so of its kind? Chufletas says and
does degueello San Bartolome. iVenturoso time that you do not make more to say Donayre!

Go to England, where the same strife occasioned the same horrors. Some saints Catholics, for
the sake of the church, had given the king to fly with gunpowder, family real, and the entire
parliament, and rid England of both heretic. Taught me the site where had made to burn more
than five hundred of his subjects the blessed queen Maria, daughter Henrique eighth, and I assure
Hiberno cleric was much merit action towards God first because the burned were all English, and
secondly because I never took holy water, and believed in the cave of San Patricio, astounded
that they had not yet canonized to the Queen Mary, though he hoped that it would take to put
on the altars, so I had a little place Cardinal Nepos.

We went to Holland, where he hoped to find more peace, and a more phlegmatic people. Quando arrives
The Hague, were cutting the head off a venerable old man, and was the first bald head Barnevelt
minister. Moved with compassion, wonder what his crime was, and if he had been traitor the
state. Much worse than that, I answered a preacher of black cloak that is man believes it can attain
salvation by good works as well as by faith and well see if be credited such opinions, the republic
could not survive, so it is necessary stringent laws to curb such horrific scandals. Then sighing
a politician díxome deep: IHA, sir! This good weather will not last forever, this town is being
so jealous by mere chance: his true character is inclined to abominable
dogma of tolerance, and day will embrace, something that thrills me.

I however, until they reached the fatal time of forbearance and moderation, all haste dexe a
country where no happy tempered their severity, and I embarked for Spain.

Was the court in Seville, had reached the galleons, and the most beautiful season of the year
all breathed abundance and joy. After a street in orange and lemon trees, I saw an arena huge
covered terraces surrounded by beautiful texidos. Baxo a magnificent canopy were the king, queen,
infants and the princesses. In front of the August family still had a throne higher. Dixe, return
to one of my co-journey: As this seat is not reserved for God, for
those who can not be.

Heard a Spanish major these reckless words and I left side. I figured we were going to see
a tournament or a bullfight, when I went up the Grand Inquisitor to the throne, and from the blessed
the king and the people.

Then came an army of friars in rows of two by two, white, black, brown, shoes, barefoot, bearded,
beardless, with pointed hood, and no chapel was then the executioner; and behind, in the midst
of sheriffs and dukes, about forty people covered with sacks where had painted flames and devils.
Were these, or Jews who had insisted on not deny Moses, or Christians who had married with their Wives,
or had not been devoted Nuestra Senora de Atocha, or had not wanted to give money to the Capuchin
Fathers. Cantaronse a most devout prayers, and then were burned alive over a slow fire, all prisoners,
with qual it built the family remained very real.

That night, when I was going to get into bed, came two relatives of the Inquisition accompanied
by a round well-armed; dieronme a loving hug, and took me, without speaking word, a very cool
dungeon where he had a mat to lie down, and a superb crucifix. Here I was six weeks past the quale
sent me to ask please sir Inquisitor saw me with him. Estrechome in his arms with paternal
affection, and told me that I felt very sincerely that was so ill housed, but they were busy
all the quartos of that holy house, and hoped to give me more room again. Ask me later with no
less love, if he knew it was there.

Replied the holy man, no doubt for my sins. That is, my son:? But that sin? Speak without rezelo.
For more than kill me, could not manage, until the charity of the pious inquisitor gave me some
light. I remembered the end of my reckless words, and I was not convicted of more than Exercises,
discipline, and thirty thousand pieces of fine. They carried on to thank the Grand Inquisitor, sugeto
very friendly, I wonder what I had thought that her party.

Deliciosisima Rospondile was, and I went for my haste saliesemos companions to the country,
since it is so enjoyable. These had taken place to informed of all the great deeds delivered
again by the Spaniards for the sake of religion, and read the memories of the famous bishop
of Chiapas, where it has beheaded, burned or drowned idolatrous ten million Americans to convert
them to our holy faith. Well I think it weighs something the bishop, but rebaxe although half
of the victims, is still proved a prodigious zeal.

Atormentabame burning constantly traveling, and was determined to end my pilgrimage to Europe
for Turkey. Encamineme to this, with a firm purpose of not saying my mind again about the parties
he had seen. These Turks, dixe my companions, they're pagans have not received the holy baptism,
and certainly should be more cruel than the holy inquisitors callemonos then, while living among
Moros.

This would encourage, but was astonished to see many more temples in Turkey Christians on the island
where he was born, and even grown congregations friars, who dexaban in peace to pray to the Virgin
Mary, and Muhammad curse, some in Greek, some in Latin, and other in Armenian. iQue honest
people are the Turks! I exclaimed. The Greek and Latin Christians irreconcilable enemies in Constantinople,
and these slaves are chasing each other like dogs that bite in the street, and that separate suits their
masters. Then the grand vizier protected the Greeks: the Greek Patriarch, who had accused me
of dinner with the Latin patriarch, and was convicted of the divan a hundred sticks on the
soles of the feet, to rescue price five hundred sequins.

Hanged the next day the Grand Vizier, and the third his successor, which was not hung up there
a month, I condemn the same fine for having dinner with the patriarch Greek so that I saw in
the sad precision frequeentar not the Greek church or America. For comfort rented a beautiful
Circassian, who was the most affectionate person alone with a man, and the most devout at the
mosque. One night, the soft taste of love exclaimed giving me a hug: Allah, Ilah, Allah, are
the sacramental words of the Turks; I thought you were the love,
And I said with much love: Allah, Ilah, Allah.

Ha, he said the delay, Merciful God be praised, and you are Turkish. I replied that he thanked
the Lord that had given me strength to be, and I thought it was very happy. Morning came to get
circumcised the magnet, and I have difficulty putting, I proposed the cadi of the neighborhood,
a man of good composition, I would send impaled. Free at last my foreskin and my back for a
thousand sequins, and I escape running Persia, resolved not to hear Mass in Turkey Greek or Latin,
and if ever Allah, Ilah, Allah in the moments from the likes of love.

So get to Ispahan, I asked if it was the party of black sheep or ram white. Replied that the same
one that gave me another, which makes it tender. It must be noted that Persia was still divided
into two factions, the ram's black and white. I believe that by mocking both parties, and
I found myself in a terrible commitment to gate of the city, of whom I left paying a lot of sequins,
not having to do with sheep.

Do not stop to China, which comes with an interpreter, he said that I was the country where
could live happy and free: the Tatars had invaded it they placed all blood and fire, while the reverend
Jesuit Fathers on the one hand, and the reverend fathers Dominicans second, they said winning souls
for heaven, without anybody noticing. Have never been more zealous converters, are chasing
each other with the most fervent ardor, wrote Rome whole volumes of libel, and tried by a faithless
infidels and soul.

There was an awful row between them about how to do the courtesy, the Jesuits The Chinese wanted
to greet their parents to the fashion of China, and Dominicans it was the fashion of Rome. Sucediome
the Jesuits thought I was a Dominican, and they told him that His Majesty was Tartara spy of the Pope.
Commission gave the supreme council a first mandarin to arrest me, the qual command a sheriff,
who had at his command four brackets, which seized me, and I bound with all ceremony. Conduxeronme,
after hundred and forty prostrations, before His Majesty, I wonder if I was a spy of the Pope
and if it was true that the prince had to come in person to dethrone him. I replied that Pope
was a clergyman of more than seventy years, that his statements were far more than four thousand
miles those of his Sacred Majesty Tartaro-China, that his army was two thousand soldiers standing
guard with a para-waters not anyone dethroned, and I could sleep without His Majesty fear.
This was the least fatal adventure of my life, as did more than send me to Macao, where I embarked
for Europe.

It was necessary to caulk the ship off the coast of Golconda, and I take advantage of the opportunity
to see the court of the Aurengzeb, of whom there were then a thousand wonders. It was this monarch
in Delhi, and enjoy the taste imponderable façade to façade behold the day of the pompous ceremony
that received the heavenly gift that he sent the sheriff of Mecca, and was the broom which had swept
the holy house, the Kaaba, the Belho-Allah: broom is a symbol that alimpia all the filth of the soul.
It appears that did not need Aurengzeb, who was the male more Hindustan religious whole, since it
had beheaded one of his brothers, and given poison his father, and had destroyed a scaffold twenty Omra
rajas and many others, but That did not mean anything, and nobody talked about anything but
his devotion to whom is the of no other comparable, as it was not that of the sacred majesty
of the Most Serene Emperor Morocco, Mulcy Ishmael, qual a quantas
heads cut every Friday, after to prayer.

No article I word that I had chastened the voyages, and knew it was not competent judge to
adjudicate between these two August sovereign. I confess, however, that a French boy, who
locked, lacking the respect due to the emperors of India and Marruceos, saying with great imprudence
in Europe had very principles governing sovereign rightly his states,
and also frequeentaban churches, without taking life so their parents
and siblings or cut the head of his vassals. Our language interpreter
realized expressions india impias of this boy. I trained with him
on other occasions I had happened, send saddle camels, and went with
the French. Later I learned that night had come and fetch him great
Aurengzeb officials, and not having found more than the interpreter,
was this executed in the main square, without flattery confessed all
that was very fair palace his death.

Quedabame to see the Africa
to enjoy all the delights of our hemisphere, and saw effect. Black
corsairs seized my vessel. My boss complaining bitterly, and ask them
for violating the laws of nations. He was answered by Captain black:
Your nose is long, and our flat, your hair is smooth, and our wool
curl, your skin is ashen-gray color and our Ebony, therefore under
the sacrosanct laws of nature, we must always be enemies