 This is always in
Spain, especially in public places. I must say with pleasure that I have nothing but fond memories
of the numerous friends of coffee, theater, wagon, diligence, etc., which harvested in Spain,
friends of one hour, anonymous, they are lost forever a moment later, but leave good memories for
the kindness obsequious in their manners and goodwill that give the traveler any reports requested.

In
honor of my friend for a ride and to do justice to his eloquence,
I remember a circumstances.

Shortly after the departure of the train, when the conversation was walking through the passes
of gallantry concealed, the blonde lady like a queen who abdicates his crown on a whim, stated that he
hated marriage and would never marry, and that, not by hatred of men but .... (Oddly enough the daughter
of an absolutist!) For the love of freedom. The Catalan poet Heat beat the gap. When we descended
from the wagon in Aranjuez, the rebel was beautiful ... or seemed to become pregnant, but the
poet preacher had not given even one step beyond the way of compliments. The same day in my beard
preached the same sermon to others inveterate three or four times, with admirable gallantry
spirited.

The opulent Aranjuez valley formed by the lifting of some hills in the great plain who has the Tagus
hydrographic center, collects the waters of this river and the Jarama whose convergence is checked
at a short distance from the city of Aranjuez, which is 49 miles Madrid. Not without reason can
call the valley the garden of Madrid, it is distinguished by the abundance and excellence
of its fruits and vegetables. In Spain the classic land of strawberries and asparagus is Aranjuez.
Its industry is very small, and very little agriculture importance if we are to judge by the few
vineyards and olive groves a few tiny hills contour. Best of Aranjuez is its forests, gardens, palaces
and her offspring, all of which belongs to the "real estate".

The population is only a little over 5,000 inhabitants, a figure that usually double during Spring
by the invasion of those seeking the delights of the countryside. New town and court, Aranjuez is
distinguished by the ability of their homes, and runs very wide streets to string and cut at
right angles. Is between the city and the Tagus which extends the most splendid gardens and
parks of Real-site.

In a hotel-restorer we found four journalists and a young man in the world who had started
his career in diplomacy: gallant, spender, pompous and "tired of life" to scarcely twenty-two
.... It was interesting to see the frank cordiality which existed
between many writers gathered