 At times it also gave him a workout in the microscope, he brought a costly Germany
and began to examine and prepare diatoms admirably on some crystals that he cut. Finally, having
fallen into their hands a book about making beer, entregóse with zeal to the study, called
to England and started several other to imagine that perhaps in Sarrió be happy and get a result
with this huge profits unknown industry. It came up a factory. But having communicated the project
with his uncle, this man tried saw fit to launch a series of inarticulate cries outside all the
normal pitch, which ended he was heard to exclaim:

- What! A Cuevas got a beer! The son of a captain, the grandson of an admiral Navy! You are treeless, Gonzalo.
Well the saying goes that idleness is the mother of all vices. If you had entered the School
of Marine and I advised you to these hours would be a midshipman and first, and you'd be running
the world without thinking such antics.

Gonzalo was silent, but did not continue reading its manufacturing methods. Understanding that
without seeing for himself the main factories and without studying the matter seriously not
reach any results, it was decided to pursue a career in industrial engineering England. When
he threw himself to tell his uncle, not the ocean sounded bad engineer's name; but the adjective industrial
reawakened in his mind the same storm hatred and resentment that had produced the beer.

- Industrial, industrial! Today any shoeshine industrial flame. Become a goodly engineer of
roads, canals and ports, or mine.

By this time he met, or to speak more accurately, tried, since everyone knew Sarrió, his current
girlfriend, Miss Belinchón. One day his uncle sent him home from the wealthy merchant with instructions
to ask if I could give you a letter on Manila. Don Rosendo was not at his desk, he was on the ground
floor of the house, and how the business was urgent, Gonzalo decided
to climb.

The maid who opened was in a hurry.

- Come in, Don Gonzalo, Miss Cecilia will tell you where the Lord.

He entered a room in disarray, with piles of clothes on the floor and a table in the center where
the first daughter of the lords of Belinchón was aplanchado a shirt
dress with no appropriate to their category.

A vestidillo frayed and a handkerchief tied around the waist as the
artisans; slippers on his feet quite used.

Did not blush because the young man found in that herding or as low
occupancy, and cried like many others would do in your case:

- Jesus,
how I found you! - Bringing his hands to the hair and throat.

Not so.

A moment suspended their work, smiled sweetly and waited for the young speak.

- Good afternoon - he said, turning red.

- Good afternoon, Gonzalo - she replied.

- Can you see your dad?

- I do not know if you are at home. I'll see - said the young, leaving
the iron on the table and passing ahead of him.

When they had gone
a bit, he turned to ask:

- Does your guy is good?

- Yes, ma'am,
yes ... I mean, no ... For some days not getting out of bed ... Has
a bad cold.

- Do not be a thing of care?

- I think not, ma'am.

The
young man went on his way smiling