 This is in my humble opinion, the origin of the picture. Then
on how to feel it and fix it, Velázquez mythology mocked mocked as Quevedo of the heroic poems, writing
Orlando Follies and nonsense, and Cervantes all books of chivalry with the immortal Don Quixote.

Lithography,
etching and photography have played so much this painting is no need
describe it.

It would also be necessary to pen portrayed Monipodio to express in words Velázquez worthy of
truth and grace of that group of nine men held more or less wine, which distinct types give the
set an amazing variety within the breed rascally they belong to everyone. Sitting or lying in
the shade of a vine, a drunken and, others almost, who lifted a cup that looks Greek, who lovingly
holding between hands a bowl of wine: Bacchus makes head adorned with grape leaves to who
kneels as if it were respectful of the laurel crown that is awarded, one that has already
achieved, rest lying on the ground and in the most comfortable bed, and another about asking
humbly, hat in hand, enter the circle and participate in the drink to get in that situation
worthy of branches also adorn the temples. Not there or face a bitter look menacing, these
men may have been for serious crimes rowing in the galleys, are perhaps highwaymen, but at
that time the gift has made them meek are peaceful, happy, enjoying the delightful intoxication
instead of stirring up of strife or crime seems abstracted them, isolating them from world as
if he had not anything worth to worry, no glory, no greed, no lust, whose taste can be compared
to the pleasing feeling that causes them to slide down the juice gullet. The joy they feel
is communicative: those who watch them laugh, they are not drunks that inspire fear and loathing,
or disgust, his drunkenness has that little respect it deserves the pleasure of others to be harmless.

When
Velazquez, in time, he mastered the art freehold of art, perhaps other pictures painted in
neither came to deploy as much force and intensity Speech: The Drunk is why among all his canvases
the choice of the public.

This drew an admirable way, neither in each figure considered in relation to others discrepancy
is noticed, or examined in isolation has the slightest impropriety: no figure does not occupy
the place it deserves, nor a member that does not fit in the body
to belongs, or lines that do not play with really amazing the way
you intend to copy.

The bare chips are about the purity of modeling as fragments of classical statues; in each
fold clothes accuses the package behind it. The total spot of color is hot dominating yellowish-brown
tones of weathered complexions and coarse cloth. In style and manner are still hard, each piece
is made and rushed aside, the concern Strongly modeling, the shadows seem to cut, and around
the figures, which outline highlights of the fund unnecessary force, short of breathing air which
is the largest charm of the works of Velázquez, when observer force arrives later Blend bodies
in the distance, presenting them with their own look not real, but which take, according to the place.

It
was natural, given the time he lived, that Velazquez want to go to Italy, Rubens had to counsel and the
King, far from opposing "habiéndoselo promised several times - said Pacheco - meeting real word
and encourage their lot, gave him leave, and for four ducats trip silver, making him pay two
years of his salary. And saying farewell to the Conde-Duque, gave two hundred ducats in gold
and a medal bearing the portrait of King, and many letters of favor. "

Embarked at Barcelona on August 10, 1629, and its companion the Marquis navigation of Balbases,
Ambrosio Spinola, commander of our troops in Flanders, future winner Breda, who was to paint years later in
the box spears.

I think coming here should copy the paragraphs that describe the journey
Pacheco of his son, rather than extractive wrong because his style,
but expressive, giving full idea that first issue of Velázquez in
Italy.

"It flew into Venice - Pacheco said - and posing at home by the Ambassador
of Spain, which honored him much, and I sat at his desk, and wars
that had, when I went to see the city, sent his servants to which
it himself.

After leaving that concern, coming Venice to Rome, passed through the city of Ferrara, where
he then was, by order of Pope Saquet cardinal rule, which was Nuncio in Spain, who was to
give some letters and kiss hand, leaving to others to another Cardinal.

He was received very well and was a great instance The day was had to be there in his palace and
eat with him, he excused himself modestly with not eating at regular hours, plus with all this, if
your Lordship was felt, obey and moving out of habit. Seeing this, he sent a Spanish gentleman
of which I attended, they take great care of him, and do him dressing room for him and his servant
and gave him the mesmos dishes that were made for his table, and to teach things more individuals
in the city. He was there two days and last night he went to say goodbye Le had more than three
hours sitting trying different things, and sent to look after him that would prevent horses for the
next day and accompany him sixteen miles up a place called Hundred, where he was little, but
very gifted, and continued firing phone the way of Rome, Our Lady of Loreto and Bologna, which
did not stop or allow letters to Ludovico Cardinal or Cardinal Espada was there.

"He came to Rome, where he spent a year, much favored by Cardinal Barberino, nephew of Pope,
by whose order they stayed in the Vatican Palace. They gave the keys to some parts the main
one was painted a fresco, all high above the draperies, stories of Holy Scripture, Federico
Zucaro hand, and among them that of Moses before Pharaoh, who walks cut [37] Cornelius. He
left that room by hand and be far behind for not being so alone, content with that would lead
the guards to enter when debujar wanted a trial of Michael Angelo,
or Raphael of Urbino things without any difficulty, and attended there
for many days with great advantage.

After seeing the Palace or the Medici Vineyard, which is in the Trinidad del Monte, and thinking
on the subject site to study and spend the summer, being the highest and most graceful of Rome,
and have there that most excellent counterfeit ancient statues, called the Count of Monterey,
Ambassador from Spain, Florence negotiate with give him a place there, and although it was
necessary to write the Duke himself, provided him with this and was there more than two months
until a tertian you forced to get off near the house of Conde, which, in the days that he was
unwell, made him great favors by sending your doctor and medicines on their own, and sending
you ready such all he wanted at home, out of many gifts of sweets, and frequent memories on your
part.

"Among the other studies done in Rome a famous portrait of him, that I have to wonder well understood
the art and honor. Determinose to return to Spain for the much needed I did, and stood around
Rome, Naples, where he painted a beautiful portrait of the Queen Hungary, to bring to His Majesty.
He returned to Madrid after a year and a half of absence and arrived at the beginning of 1631.
It was very well received in the Conde-Duque, mandola was then to kiss the hand of His Majesty, we
appreciate not having allowed another portrait painter and waiting for him to portray the
Prince, which he did promptly, and His Majesty was delighted much
to his coming.

"

Besides the works here mentioned by Pacheco Velázquez made copies of the Crucifixion Venice
Supper and Tintoretto in Rome from Parnassus, The Fire in the Borgo and the Dispute of the
Sacrament, Raphael and the Last Judgement, by Michelangelo: but given the short time that there
remained and the great amount of work that this work implies, is to assume that only hiciese fragmentary
studies, isolated notes and Palomino tells you when he says he did "several drawings, some
color, some in pencil.

" Of the Medici villa brought together two beautiful landscapes that, with the numbers 1106 and 1107
are preserved at the Museum of Prado. These undoubtedly are from his hand [38]. The two boxes that
greater efforts were made during that trip Joseph's coat, which is in El Escorial, and The Forge
of Vulcan. Both have the same number life-size figures, six each, several painted with the same
models.

Case biblical Joseph's coat is prepared without much fidelity to the sacred text. Genesis says that
Joseph's clothes were colorful, and that Table present their Jacob brothers are brown with
white trim splattered with blood. Instead Velazquez playing with the pain of a father, perhaps
more humanely than the verses of Genesis, Jacob made not only overwhelmed
with grief, but with hints of anger.

Stirling says that because this, the Jacob painted by Velázquez is less moving than the one
described by Moses. In Moreover, the terrible scene is treated with severity corresponding
to a Catholic painter XVII century.

By contrast, in The Forge of Vulcan, without reaching the lighthearted mockery made of Bacchus
in Drunks, the situation appears ready with some hilarious irony is Andalusian and little
respect for the immortal gods. Vulcano helped four strong guys went who have nothing of Cyclops,
for neither are giants, or wrongs, but of human stature and two healthy
eyes, was working with a hammer on the anvil a hot iron sheet, when
suddenly you are presented with Apollo in the form of beautiful youth,
crowned with the laurel Dafne and enclosed head revealing vivid clarity
his heavenly home.

The god Poetry comes to the god of Hell to the unpleasant news, that while he was sweating
chyle strives to forge a tremendous reinforcement for Mars, this, shaming and a mere mortal,
has committed adultery with his wife Venus and I said, apparently without preparation or rodeo,
regardless even his assistants who are there. The victim as amazed as angry, and his companions
in whose faces are painted stupefaction, suspended work: that naked from the waist up, with no more
clothing than a leather apron, gets stuck with the hammer in his right hand and left the iron
you press the red iron sheet was beating, the four young men whose only conceals a soft nudity
Gray tied at the waist, look and listen to the ruddy Apollo with less curiosity than surprise.
Each figure and each part of it is illuminated by the site it occupies, and for clarity of
the day leading into an open ventanón left on which nothing stands Apollo Now for the glow halo
head of it and by the red embers of the stove. The stay is a humble workshop in which the first
term are scattered on the floor coarse pieces of armor and tools. To serve God Vulcan Forge model,
according to the plans, the workshop of a humble blacksmith in the suburbs of Rome. For Finally,
the whole is enveloped in an atmosphere that you do not have transparency even staggering of
his later works, starting to be breathable. Understood the matter well: thinking for the gods
are human, they should be treated like men. Except for the light that radiates head of Apollo,
described by Stirling Young vulgar, nor is there anything divine or even heroic. Velázquez breathing
the atmosphere of the Renaissance papal Rome, surrounded by views pictorial prevailing literary
element, the result of an extraordinary classical culture and lavishly decorative appearance,
said his naturalistic approach, with a work that how fabulous is represented by means that
seem rude bordering on what he does not understand only with the beauty of form and expression
of individual character can be reached to the sublime. Other teachers who must have known Velázquez
there that are not exercised any influence it would have authority to deal with the issue until Homeric
grandeur: perhaps the Dominichino, the Guercino, Guido Reni Albano and would have been more
poets, more Poussin scholar, none as a painter. This certainly was proposed in the forge, was
overcome difficulties of the nude and it was made in an admirable fashion.

To make the portrait of the Infanta Dona Maria, later Queen of Hungary, sister of the King and this
order, Velazquez went to Naples. Pacheco says he painted, but no security it is the cataloged
at the Museum of Madrid with the number 1,072. The age represents the lady, his lower jaw typical
in individuals of this branch of the Austrian dynasty and to a certain resemblance to that
king, we are inclined to the affirmative, on the other hand, appears likely given the high
category hiciese Velázquez portrait of more importance lost, which perhaps is copy the one in the
Berlin Museum [39] and that Prado precede him as head of the preparatory study. His style is
typical of Velázquez at that time, perhaps some desire to work hard for long and soon dominate
the features of a model which could hardly have, it is known that
the stay was very short in Naples in the future queen and empress.

In any case, if the portrait is in Madrid Velazquez was not, who might be attributed? While
not answered satisfactorily the question, should call their own.

They were still in Naples also then Viceroy Duque de Alcalá, a friend of Pacheco, and great Spanish
painter José Ribera the Españoleto. If Velazquez had intended to take up residence in Italy,
it is likely that Bank, given the rebellious temper and domineering character that attributed
his biographers, it is not looked kindly: but as he had to know who was way, is not absurd
assumption made by several critics that would graciously to Seville. Moreover, even in the country
could, find a rival, as Jusepe Martinez Naples has found that being in a "a famous painter,
imitator of nature with great propriety, countryman of ours from the kingdom of Valencia, from whom
I received great courtesy ... Among several speeches I had to ask seeing as how all the nations
applauded, not trying to cum Spain, it was indeed his works were seen with all reverence. He replied:
"Friend expensive, my will is the great instance, but part of the
experience of many well understood and people will indeed find the
impediment, that is, be the first year received by the great painter,
the second year, it made for me, because seeing the person present
he loses respect, and the record confirms that have seen some excellent
work teachers of these kingdoms of Spain, estimated to be very little,
and I judge that Spain is the mother pious strangers and most cruel
stepmother of one's natural "[40]: bitter conviction should not have
to erase in his heart the love of country, as he signed many of his
works setting: José de Ribera, Spanish, Jativa.

Both can the persistent memory of the land where it has even in those born less than they imagine.
Pacheco writes nothing about whether locked in Naples Bank friendship with his son. Cean Bermudez,
without specifying on what grounds, said that it in 1630 was pleased to see and treat Don Diego
Velazquez when he went to Naples and accompanied him seeing all things worthy of the city, adding
that in 1649 he returned to embrace Velázquez when she gave another turn to Italy [41].

[Image: MUSEO DEL PRADO

CHRIST CRUCIFIED

FRAME. M. Moreno]

At the end of 1630 he returned to Spain and if Rubens did not influence his style, nor altered
due to cause admiration the works of Titian, Tintoretto, Veronese, Raphael and Michelangelo.
By reflection or by instinct, at thirty-one, was so adamant their ideas and secure their powers
who was able to study all the teachers, not to follow any and keep your personality, leaving them
unmatched in grandeur, poetry, color and grace, and leaving him as ruler up to the simplicity and
truth.

The best way to express the development of the powers of this great painter, would be describing
their works in order that you did: so appreciate not only the different stages of their thought
but also the variations and progress of their technique, but it is not possible, first for lack
of security to set the execution date of each canvas, and second
because even style guides infallible in determining, for as for being
Velázquez employee palace were his paintings in his custody, the retouched
when it suited him, drawing and enhancing the above painting: Finally,
the fact of being some abroad, hamper the investigation.

Worked very hard during the eighteen years between the 1631, when
back in Madrid your name appears on the palace payroll for the month
of January, and in 1649 he undertook his second trip to Italy: but
there is no way to list everything in strict order he painted.

It is desirable to make a classification by groups that at first seems arbitrary but has the
advantage of indicating first split and then cover and set all As occurred in that fertile period
of his life. What we can know almost year by year is the least interested: his service as
a servant of the King. In the capital, which are boxes, do not speak the files of the files, but
to say where they were once positions, or even be relying on the documents relating to cost them,
as these roles composed when they were paid, not when they were painted,
so it is not possible to subject them to chronology.

Finally, the order of their production, due to a work with pretensions to definitive and erudite, it is
not necessary in a modest work of popularization. Be satisfied, therefore, to mention when referring
to this period (1630-1649), first pictures, so gender Velázquez exceptional importance, then
the composition tables, and finally, paintings fires destroyed or unaccounted for.

One of the first works that had to do upon arrival in Italy, in early 1631, is the portrait of
Philip IV which is preserved in the National Gallery in London. This represented King standing, full
length and size to suit embroidered with silver gray, dark gloves,
white socks and dusty shoes, supporting his left hand on the hilt
of the sword and the right hand is a paper that reads: Lord, Diego
Velázquez, painter of Your Majesty: beside him is a table where is
the hat.

Beruete says, in that work, that picture is somewhat dry, and because the first impression
is very favorable, but that head made with singular delicacy, all faultlessly drawn and it authentic
no doubt. Almost the same months would two portraits of the King and his first wife, Dona Isabel
de Borbon, both from the waist, which are in the Imperial Museum of Vienna.

In Madrid we have the King portrayed by then twice.

The first (No. 1074 of the Museum) in depth of field, gun in hand, and a hunting dress fine dog
next door. This figure of Philip IV is one of the stakes and moved more elegance among all painted.

The
second in full dress and on horseback. In 1616, the Duke of Lerma had sent the sculptor Florentine
Pedro Tacca, to do the statue of Felipe III is now at the Plaza Mayor Madrid, in 1632, the
Conde Duque de Olivares, not wanting to be less flattering, commissioned that of Philip IV to
place in the Retiro. Tacca wanting to have a good portrait view King, he sent a hand equestrian
hat Velazquez and less than the natural: asked the Italian one where better to study real person,
and did to Velazquez 1633 profile, chest and no hat [42], enviándosele
also a bust of King by Martinez Montanes, maybe that is indicated
on the bottom right of the portrait this Velázquez was a sculptor.

That the king liked any of that to this end made him his favorite painter, or that it shall be
glad of them, must have been born in both the idea of ??a major new He SM equestrian portrait
of the artist to work and fruit of that work, which today is in the Museo del Prado with no.
1066. By the age that he represents the King, news and expressed, can not be painted or to
get to the Court Velázquez 1623, as claimed by Cean Bermudez, and in 1624, as indicated in
Stirling, or say Lefort and Don Pedro de Madrazo in 1644, and the time when King was thirty-nine
years old does not appear in the table, must have run about 1633 or 34, due as a result of
Tacca is sent.

Is the King represented by fund having a field near Madrid for the North, where the environment
clean diaphanous long distances reveals the groups of trees and cracking of the ground, overlooking
the clear tones, green and blue.

Walks from left to right, in profile, riding a horse chestnut, white paws, sober jected harness
and put in half or corvette. Empavonada takes half armor with gold work, band shell and the
crimson, silk, made a graceful bow, the tips will float to the back, dark breeches, boots and
gloves Estévez fine brown feather hat and white ruff narrow gutter, all painted with such delicacy
that although the artist hesitating and fixes many, because it is the work of such difficulty, it
seems the implementation achieved with remarkable ease and fluency. Besides the perfect imitation
of nature, feature hallmark of this painting is some mix of vigor and elegance, majesty and grace
that makes deeply sympathetic to the model: even knowing who the sitter, it is understandable
that must belong to the category of pampered by wealth and jobs for
her at the summit of social grandeur, someone made a gift of magnificent
palaces and a powerful who has protected happiness, for the continent,
bearing, gesture, it's all very own Sir, and knowing that is Philip
IV of Austria, under whose scepter Unfortunately no we do not or harm
to come over to deliver him guilty of apathy, when we remember that
is that Lack of drive to King was not available as parties and to
woo women, it is still higher amazement that cause its image and drawn,
because, rather than sovereign incapable, it seems father of a people
who in their wisdom made happy.
