 

Ah! Poor Pas! How to explain to me now that their husbands sent to Madrid to play the role of dairy
cows, making the marriage blessing and fruit in a trade or merchandise is! And how sorry they
had to portray them in consciousness, a few nights ago, the cruel as follows, in a letter that
went to our friend !..... Crusade * * * Languid Pas irrigated farming
vegetables and eat them both cheeks in Madrid's famous female Pas.

      Viérasla
    
    here among chotos and calves, plowing,
      planting, take ..... Always at your back The
    basket full of kids !..... Or, dancing in the
    fields of emerald, Sundays and holidays, find
      her, with her braids longer than the skirt,
    thick bones, cold stares, and chest
    overflowing bra, Rica promise of robust offspring.
      But oh vile calculation !..... Looking only
    advantage in love, postage paid, Open
    to these gaznápiros the bed, and
      without the child after they amount Announce
    fresh milk in the daily, the stepmothers
    beautiful court! * * * But back to
      the ball of the day of San Roque. The Basques
    who work on the railroad, played the flute in
    boxwood rough-hewn, with separate ranch as they say, and danced to
the Pas with more grace and animation.

The crescent moon and on the decline appeared to preside over the
pathetic moments of the evening.

The river and the forest sprang mysterious concert with the waters,
plants and animals gave her farewell to the day.

In the distance sounded the bells of the cattle and the last shot of the weary hunter, while
the tops of the mountains shone the fire of the pastors and modulated languid wind sobs that
seemed the distant murmur of Madrid ..... But tell me: - When you get to Santander, the capital
of the province, announced the end of your trip? Arrive, my friend, when we finish the piece
of rail to Los Corrales Torrelavega, we work tirelessly, through
gambling and prophecies, all the inhabitants of this valley, from
the distinguished family construction (English for more precise),
to my humble person, who has nailed more than a spike seating rails
.....-- So have another week of patience.

VII .-- PREMIERE OF A RAILWAY DISASTER * * * We were half a league of our journey to opening:
we had just come into the Valley of Buelna, back from Santander:
We only four minutes of walking through the plain, to shake hands
with those who anxiously awaited us, with Champagne bottles to half-open,
and celebrate the opening of this section of the railway ..... We
spent the last fill - also the last, for having concluded that morning.
