 Tié the face that gives glory.

- Do you know your master?

...

- Know ... I do not know, because I have not said a peep. As you have money, I do not want create
... Do you understand you?

But it malice, because I, nor the bulls go, but I fourth generation estarme provided in the
back talking to her.

- Well, man, well, come on, keep it or leave it here, at the last minute to tell you Mr. Ramón
what to do, and finish it camaraderie.

This small service rendered to Pateta Pepe, I paid for it in spades.

       If it rained suddenly I was the boy ran into the street to fetch
the umbrella keypads: whether to go to the tobacconist for snuff,
back in a tell Jesus to bring coffee from one that was near of printing,
no one walked lighter, and if the coffee had been cold, snuggled up
to the machine steam, not lick the toast or smuggle half sugar, as
did others.

* * * * *

Such was the postman who chose Pepe to ensure their correspondence
with Peace, hiding, of course, he worked at the same press where it
was an apprentice.

- If I ask you to do me a favor, can I count on
you? - Pepe said one day.

- Send what you want - said the future
typesetter.

- The thing has to be between you and me I do not want
anyone to know, understand?

Neither Mr. Miller.

- Neither the stones.

Never failed to secrecy. When Pepe spent two or three days without seeing Paz wrote it, and pathetic,
when leaving work, undertook the walk from the hotel where she, prevented by impatiently waiting
for him behind the glass of the balcony of his room. The range of garden was immediately to
the gate a small oven made of brick and tiled, which served to warm the atmosphere in growing
flowers: Pateta was coming there, watching the time when no servant could see him, and putting his
arm through the bars of gate, depositing the letter tiles in one of those bad affirmed. The next
day collecting the same site of defense, won him so long walks, and especially pleased that
service is such a pack of waterproof Pepe gave him, and sometimes
a coffee half roasted, which made him smacking taste.

X

The affection of the lovers and the plight of Pepe grew up to par. The amount retirement of Don
Jose, the brainchild of his son, the little that earned Leocadia embroidering and what they
tried to save Dona Manuela, everything was invested in medical and pharmacy. So was the winter of
1872 and that sad Christmas Eve dinner, which spoke of the next Tirso
coming and that, after going Millán, and the old man slept, they discussed
children and the mother of which should be made without going to solve
anything, because the common devotion did not produce a single penny
of copper.

The next week the situation worsened with the news that came Tirso:
letter that it should not precede it announced only two days.

Pepe wrote to his girlfriend of this Fortunately, mixing with the
words of love he felt for suspicion that an unknown brother:

Adoro
Paz:

You're right: Although we are almost daily, so few occasions
when we speak freely, that force must be our long and frequent letters.

Things I write you would say to you: what does not stir you read, my words would lead the soul
into force of sincerity. But I understand that there is no remedy, and even fear that these difficulties
not now but other major announcement: believe me, our love must cost a lot tears. Be as romantic
as you want, and is opposite to my way of thinking about in tone bitter about certain things, but I do,
that all the concerns I laugh, I've come to crash against one of the most powerful. The distance
between us would be greater if you were queen and I groom, like the characters in this French
drama were reading the other day. The situation of my family, our poverty, all that hinders me to
make my way in life, I separated from you. Your father has an enviable position: what do you want
to give her daughter a man who has had to abandon the race due to lack of few dollars per
year books and tuition?

But a day of life, life. I do not you ever give up, do not say never leave me, and when are you
who say that we should not meet again, keep silent, because you'll
be right.

It seems to me, mocking and godless, no worries, I come to crash into the obstacle more laughable,
but stronger-against social conventions. Kid yourself, our love must be a very short novel,
ridiculous to count, sad for us, unique we take it seriously. How long will this last? Who will
get tired before? What do you expect? Do I to love? Who ever will not be anxious time, which
will making it increasingly good and beautiful, perhaps richer, and me most wretched and poor.
Do not imagine that I want break our relationships: to know that I want, get a letter in which I
talk about your Sweetheart, hear you ever remember me when you suffer and you're missing something
in the joys of not having me on the side, are things that touch my soul and leave me proud
of myself. If you only knew how you pay them my heart! If you could read my thoughts, guessing
the ideas, hide from the vagaries of my dreams ... But I want, while my love, you're convinced
of my loyalty. Before you hear what your father, I want to be me I tell you. What I can offer future?
No, I will never leave you, and if you become a judicious day or more interested, do not cast curses
of comedy, but I separate them resigned from you, loving you as I do now and keeping the best
of the memory remember the love that I've ever had. Never throw you in the face lack of energy
or weakness constancy. It's so natural you forget me! Fed have done with starting to love, but
then you weigh.

How many times have I told you all this? Do not be surprised, because due to my obsession, to my constant
pondering. We can not conceive the foundation of your love. I love you, so good so beautiful
you are.

But you, why do I want? I miss everything around you, you live in an atmosphere of luxury
almost unknown to me, as I live between deprivation that you can not calculate, and may you
always be outsiders, the least of your whims I could not satisfy many weeks of work, the people
that speak to you have to use derogatory language to for those in situations similar to mine,
went into the house of my parents and you saw these walls, the furniture, I would hesitate whether
to offer money for pity or conceal what they noticed, by pointing to imagine that such a shortage could
offend: and yet you say that best place in your heart is for my baby, and you taught me my letters
with my name deleted with your kisses. Bless you! No, do not leave me, nor have ever trial, if the
must have it be to forget, or think in the future, I do not think, but I love you with all my
heart.

Now, as all you hidden, I want you to know what happens at home. Tirso my brother, the priest,
who have been educated and has always lived far from us, must come
the day after tomorrow.

Ignore the reason for his coming, not a word we know of its purposes, nothing has been said. Recently
time wrote that it might need to make a trip to Madrid, then gave him a sure thing, now announces
that arrives. My parents, of course, rejoice, in your Pepe Leocadia and, if I must be frank,
the feeling that dominates is that of curiosity. We've only seen Tirso once or twice, being very
small, and within hours we're going to have you here. I'll get to the station and you will
know the habits, otherwise it would have to say: "this is." Would funny to come down while the
wagon two young priests! With this, understand that I have reason to be worried. What is the status
of my brother? What happened? If your position is well off, thank goodness, and I do not mean
less work for me, but what if is as poor as we? We will be five instead of four who have to
live poor. Why did he left his parish?

Perhaps come to expect something, but if so, why not checking with our father? You who know my
way of thinking, although not completely, understand that shelters
some fears.

Tirso is a priest, and in this house there is very little devotion. My father never talks about
it; Mom, with care, it is enough; to Leocadia likes going to church when there are large parties,
the absence of other more fun but more expensive than you are banned, and as to me ... Callus:
I do not want you to call me herejote. Anyway, I'm not alone.

Just for today: you can not complain that I write little.

It is with care, because tomorrow, if I can, go see your father if
you have something to send.

Yours always,

PEPE.

"

The letter, in answer to it, found the next day Pateta under unsafe tiles oven stove, said:

"My Dear Pepe:

By God, I ask you not torment me so. I've told you a thousand times. I love you because yes, because
I think you're the best man, and do not ask me more. Do not you usually say My father raised me
like other women? Well, that is. If you had a great fortune, would perhaps easier for us to
be each other, but I would like now could not give even a lint more than affection. So do not
give me grief or tontunas, not ever say to leave you, or that if I leave I will endure. If you
think it is because I want. Am I rich? All the better. Come out and poor, and if not, I want to
I have become, provided that you do not look at any other woman. Do you understand? That's all I
do not forgive ever. We agreed that you will never go again nor do I write nonsense: not deserve
another Name the things you say. My father will not let me marry you, but do you marry another?
That if you do not! What is this answer you Peace. Come on, I do not understand these sublime
sacrifices from you and nonsense. I have not thought, or think, or think you down for ever
in nothing in this world. Do you know? I have read so many books of which has my father, me
Don Quijote agreement says that all the knights wore on his shield a sign. Well, you and I
are two men walking with this sign: love and patience. Like it? Well, shut up and not waste time
on wishes sad. Ensure that people who hopes to despair: no matter. I am content with who I love
very much. I think this has nothing to do with social conventions, with the humility of your
house or your bitterness. If you loved me as I to you, would not require more. Do you think
I will get nun or forcibly married to a prince of a fairy tale? Am I stupid? You'll see, you'll
see, when you know my father as I know you!

Concerning the coming of your brother, I can tell you anything, but I figure that you see everything
black. Until you know what your situation, there is no need to hurry. If you come to expect, you
should dare to ask Dad to recommend him to anyone. Would you be angry if I tell you that your fears
I look stupid? Is it to be bad because it is cured? Undoubtedly, this is what you have been
occurred. In truth, the thing is rare, be so big brothers and do not know, but see how that's
why you have no trouble. And if you suffer, I love you a little more for miss anything.

Goodbye, sad me. Do not ever forget your

PEACE.

"

XI

Tirso Following an ecclesiastical career, was one of those serious things in human life are
resolved quickly and with little intervention concerned.

One Don Tadeo, a friend of his father, who pay a debt of gratitude is first made by of education,
then the future of the boy, was honest and good, but fan reviews political and religious beliefs.
Their excess of faith and realism was honest, and undisputed its influence and prestige among
the supporters of the legitimacy and people from church inhabiting the region. For long periods,
in which he ordered the moderate party, retained Don Tadeo its fate in the Treasury of the
province and was one of many protected Carlist by the Poles, who considered less dangerous to
attract supporters of the Pretender compromise with liberals. Past few years, and governing
a liberal ministry, its peers and subordinates prepared the terrible snare whose disastrous denouement
did head Jose statements. The case made against him or cause gave no result that dismissal, but this
fact, which went unnoticed by the rest of the nation, was important local event. Thereafter,
Don Tadeo was to his enemies become a poor man, and in the eyes of his supporters as a martyr:
he, imagining make good his downfall, he devoted himself entirely to be an instrument of ideas ever
had inclination. The clergy of the capital of the province, which initially was considered
as a victim, then by his strength, he had the strong man, and seeing it as a character willing
to fight with greater freedom than the church, tacitly and insensibly awarded leadership.
He became what we now call a bishop of the Levite, the pair local chief a game. A home were
constantly the canons of the cathedral, the missionaries that often made trips to the city, journalists
and even the Catholic prelate the diocese. According to these people, Don Tadeo charge of education
and future of Tirso was a meritorious act, thought he paid his debt of gratitude to the best
of ever did anyone, especially a child that starting from the jaws
of a parent progresistón and perhaps heretical, it seemed a wonderful
thing.

For his part, Mr. Thaddeus did not attempt to say Jose was a pity he had liberalescas trends.

Tirso
raised a housewife in a village, and could do a goat, a sexton, protected by Don Tadeo, taught
from small to read, write, count and pray, after eight years knew how to help mass, and at
fourteen and her godfather could be used to write letters and run errands of those who do not
trust to servants. In contrast to their parents wrote very little, and when I did, down at the
instigation of Don Tadeo that of its own accord. The friends of the former, seeing educated in
the fear of God, he was treated with special affection and, in return, Tirso became all respect
for those gentlemen, that he was included magnates. Priests, especially, he deserved special consideration.
The talking and trying to close for a few hours before had been officiating in the temple with
rich costumes and taking the people prostrated themselves around, was in his eyes it would
have been for boys increased between soldiers mingle with superiors. Unable to realize the greatness
of the ideas represented by those men, he seduced the position they occupied in the city. Under
a canopy walk, talk from the pulpit and give a hand to kiss, seemed more signs of prestige to ride
music front, sword in hand and battalions behind, so when he told his godfather to study for
the priesthood, his childish imagination received the news with such emotion to joy. What other
career had to give a man dedicated to serve as guide means, through an agent to the interests
and biases of the clergy? A canon was the one who decided to fate of the boy, answering and
Don Tadeo, who consulted on the matter: - "No You could think of nothing better. If the boy is
the chosen and get a luminary of the Church What glory for you! If not ... it will have a career
as good as any. And so it is up to his parents - he added - understand that complain if the guy
you should mark another path, but who can take the wrong purpose so noble? "- Shortly after entering
Tirso in the seminary, where, incidentally, under the influence of those who took him did not
suffer hazing endured by others.

Then they began to pay off the separation from family and lack of Tirso parents who spent the
first years of his life. The voice sounded powerful and compelling self-interest, Don Tadeo saying that
man could do, that your family, however, had no means for it. He had talked so much the fear
of God and so little of his own mother, who praised the idea of ??being a minister of the
Lord.

The first effect of religious education was to make him understand that his future would correspond
harbored the hope that seeing and envying those who frequented the house of his protector.
The lessons from teachers and books that put him in his hands, he
said the mission of the priest was superior to anything I could imagine
their ambitions.

The most famous of the prophets, the precursor San Juan, had the joy of putting your hands after
on the head of Christ: he, as a priest, he would every day in his, and he consecrate his words.
The angels are continually about God, but what angel has, as he was to enjoy it, the power to
forgive sins? In the womb of the Virgin incarnate the Word, but only once: in the hands of a priest,
by virtue of output sentences from his lips, incarnate the Word every day, and not as deadly, as
he conceived Mary of Nazareth, but impassible, immortal, glorious,
as it is in heaven.

What power and dignity was the same as yours?

Two distinct features of his personality began to develop in him during this time of his life, while
a student at the seminary. His intelligence, late in understanding, became accustomed to admit what
they gave thought, as preferable to the work of thinking for own,
and the ease with which he could continue the race for that protection
to be dispensed, he did little humble.

There was a priest of the brief career, studying only the rudiments of Latin, philosophy impaired
and some moral Jesuit, but continued the race can, soaking Theodicy,
Patrologia, Hermeneutics, canon law and church discipline, up to a
doctorate in Theology in all of which eight years elapsed, after which
the juvenile was ordered.

Happy Day one in which the simple tonsure him a soldier of the militia of Christ! But this that did
not sprout in your soul to the warmth of faith, or hopefully your good intentions with what
could make managing the divine weapons which would be granted, but born of contact used by
the docility with which she received the words heard so often promised, as was the priest, the
supremacy over other men. The priest is an ambassador speaking on behalf of God, and despise is insulting
to whom he sends, he said, taking St. John Chrysostom, repeating this and other similar phrases
over and over again to soak of the nobility of their mission, as did the pagan oracles to those
who aspired refer to your service. Minor orders of porter, lector, exorcist and acolyte seemed full
of charm, in the amount of dignity and by indicating that advertised. Being goalie the house of
God! Read the word of God to the people! Throw the evil enemy outside
the body in which prey!

Able to approach the Holy of Holies! What a great and enviable privileges!

At
last the day of receiving major orders