 After washing my and perfume have continued
twice a day, giving me a hitch, and forcing me to be with all these bright young ladies, where
I ended up forgetting my austere Zoroaster and preaching, and convinced that in this life be sought
to have the best possible, without engaging in the lives of others. Care Agenos kill the donkey, and
none more so than who is mixed to censure the vices of others, if only you have missed the chance
to fall on them, or when, if they have not fallen, it must be to
ignorance, bad taste and rustiqueza.

I
put my hands on the ears to hear such blasphemy from the mouth of
that wise admirable.

I was desperate and angry to see him become a bon vivant, with their points and shameless rogue necklace,
but to avoid scandalous gossip, I decided to advise the school of wizards to continue arguing
that Parsondes was up to the empyrean, and to continue to venerate his image without discovering never before
flatly denying that Parsondes lived with the dancers of Babylon in the palace of Nanar. In this
awoke from my dream and I turned to find my poor house of this court.
- I think, added our friend to finish his story, with less wealth
and less Nanar coast the day can seduce upbraideth Parsondes that
immorality and vices, moved, not charity, but of envy.

Those who are not sure of the virtue and fortitude must therefore
be more lenient with Nanar.

Woe to him who boasts without having it under probadísima! Blessed are those who practice it and
shut up! THE PREHISTORIC BERMEJINO OR BLUE SALAMANDER I've always been fond of science. When
young, I had a thousand other hobbies, but now I am old, the prevailing scientific hobby and triumphs
in my soul. Unfortunately or fortunately happens to me something
very singular.

I like science inversely delas truths that are showing exactly.

So I just am interested in sciences, and inaccurate I love.

Hence my penchant for philosophy.

It is the truth that appeals to me, but the effort of speech, of
subtlety and imagination that is used to discover the truth, but undetected.

Once the truth discovered, well proven and patent, usually leave me cold. Thus, a gallant young
man, when you go down the street in pursuit of a woman whose waist walk gracefully and which excited
him, and then forward, looks at his face and sees that it is old, or
one-eyed, or have nosed monkey .

The man would also be a cabinet if he knew the truth, but truth to
be pretty.

Were
quieted in their possession and enjoyment would become silly. Better, then, we know little.
What matters is knowing enough to appear or be discerned the mystery, and never enough to explain
or clarify. Thus curiosity is aroused, it stirs the imagination and invent theories, dogmas
and other witticisms, entertain and comfort us during our earthly existence, all of which would lack,
being a thousand times more unhappy, if not pure rough We present
the mystery, or if we should reach working pure deep and unravel its
true meaning.
