 Several times she had Solá
warned. Stories of their steps and had been allowed to have horses. She lived with her family
man and was very moderated. Not readily made known their views, but passed by fervent supporter
of D. Carlos. Went to Mass every day and after walking Mass Taconera two hours, whatever time.

Salvador
and D. Thomas spoke a short time.

D. Sympathized with his friend Thomas D. Carlos Navarro, and then, as the other will bring
out the war and the look took, said with apparent candor, the true mask of his cunning, which,
in his opinion, things would not go forward. Not to be called on to speak, pressed his friend's hand
and continued walking along the wall.

The next day was spent on weapons in the moat of the fortifications D. Holy Thief who died brave as
Spanish and resigned as a Christian. Iribarren then suffered a similar fate, leader less famous
than the first. It was already pointed out the sacrifice of Garrote for 15, when the Viceroy,
given the pitiful state of the offender, deferred his death, rather, the mandated nature.
Doctors had said that Navarro would not live two weeks and Sola had the opportunity to show their
humanity. The patient was taken to hospital, what his brother was
very happy because something is better than dead evicted.

Every day news came to town alarming insurrection took flight. In Oñate was put into the field
upwards in Salvatierra Uranga, in Toranzo Bárcena, Balmaseda in Fuentecén, and Navarre, which
was the center of this national uprising staged by semi-absolutism with the banner of Christ
had risen and Goni Eraso, Iturralde and Irañeta cure. Eraso had for him to Roncesvalles, the Borunda Goñi,
and the pastor was ravaging the flats.

Was a that of Irañeta brave soldier and could take place in these strange exalted ecclesiastical and
military pomp, which are written in black letters horrible deeds of Merino, Anton and Trappist
Coll.

Navarro was taken to hospital where his brother could see him often. The rough character However
the sudden and bitter grief of the patient did not change anything from the power of the jailers
to surgeons, although its condition entered a period of relief by hygienic advantages of moving
house. Bedridden, sometimes spent entire days without uttering a single word, but Salvador did
the impossible by taking an even of that chest that was a sea of ??melancholy. In contrast, other
days she was so talkative that could not follow the conversation incoherent and exalted. Salvador
and the surgeon tried with wit gallant efforts to bring his talk with the terms of discretion
and good reasoning, but the more you want to leave them the way the trial was thrown harder
D. Carlos by the cliffs of nonsense. If they talked about the crops, the harsh winter and diverting
tales interspersed in his conversation, he did not drew one of the war, Carlist thrust and the
need for a military leader of prestige and value to put an Navarre front heading to organize and
make them a powerful army ruled. Imagined do believe that there was already such a war and that
the rebels had already submitted the Government, but this worked
contrary to the good will of Salvador, because hearing Navarro about
the subject, furious, threw suits and wanted to throw the bed.

Was easier Navarra pacify to enter that brain rebelled at the idea of ??peace.

The most effective way to calm you and make you take the medicines was telling the exploits the
priest and the leader Irañeta Mongelos, two types of war of robbers. But if they said that
all religious furor carlino of such heroes was just a screen for
concealing contraband, then the patient pulled the cuffs of the sheets,
called the whelp surgeon, and told his brother:

- You are an intriguing
wrapped Mason.

Go away from here and leave me alone. In my way, I swear I clog. I loaded your care, because I
want to thank all. Do you hear it? I do not want to thank you all, and this. Weight on me
like a mountain, and I will not have health while you're away from me and I may say, "I owe
nothing, not my brother, an intruder. "

Of these things we laughed Salvador, and captured his will and his tame a bit surly genius devised
to affect sympathetic to the Prince and the apostolic insurrection. One morning I took the news
circulating in the city, giving reason to endless comments. Zumalacárregui had spent the Carlist
camp. He said he saw him two days earlier had gone very tomorrow, with military overcoat, through
the door of Carmen, and had found its way on foot to a sale nearby, where three men were waiting
with a horse. A colonel went escape Huarte Araquil leader to where he awaited the priest Irañeta
and Monge. The three left together towards the mountains in search of Iturralde, believed.

Monsalud much surprised to see that his brother, instead of receiving this news with joy that he
always showed in the case of benefits Carlist, heard with amazement, and then extremely long
pause, long afflicted and struck on the forehead as a sign of depression and despair. Suddenly extended
his hand. Grabbing the arm of her brother, atrájole to themselves and quietly, with the more
somber tone you can imagine, he said these words:

- See what makes Zumalacárregui? Well, that I should have done. Did I not say that it was necessary
that a military commander is put an the front of this holy uprising to organize? Well that
boss should be me, me. What makes Zumalacárregui? The same I would have done. Its role is mine,
mine its laurels, your win my triumph. If I were not in this abhorrent bed, be where he is now, and
what he thinks and will do for sure, and would be done .... What
despair, God of God!

That said, got his fierce eyes on his brother's sad and serene, wrapped him in a you look scary and
tightened his grip on his arm, saying:

- Listen, if I take out of this bed, if I take out of Pamplona and put me in unless Huarte Araquil
or Oricain and give me a horse, I swear I will end the hatred I have
for you and be my brother wanted, and give you a good understanding
with your care, thanking them instead of rejecting them.

Do it, do it for me and our father, whose memory and whose name I put hour loop reconciliation
between the two ....

Salvador felt cold in my heart.

In the first moment he had the idea to appear please his brother, winding up his insanity, but
the point that was considered very dangerous foster system, Siqueira
was temporarily insane as hobbies, and only said: - If persist in
this madness, and then I leave you to call your dear brother.

Navarro shouted: Intruder! and point your head and arms disappeared between the sheets. Was
that the final movement of his anger and genuine way to break the command.

Since that day, if found relief from their disease, declined over the slope of madness and such nonsense
was that the Viceroy ultimately acquitted him as unworthy of the scaffold. Was unable to die
at the hands of men. One night they found him half naked in an attic of the hospital looking
to go out the roof. Two days after he scolded the surgeon, and often threw the bed to run across
the room imaginary reviling enemies, just seen your lost understanding. Finally, after three months
in hospital, as mediated January 34, was found low in the army, and
the Viceroy ordered that He took over his family, if you had.

In that decision had no small part the good friends of Salvador. Thus was filled with their
wishes, and taking with the patient, installed it at home comfortably, decided to take him to Madrid
when his condition permits and pacify the rigors of that winter.

The temperature drop was spread over parts of the snow plates very hard and slippery glass.
The sources, muted in its gossipy rumor seemed decorations sugar by the quietness of icy jets
of a thousand facets. In the formidable walls Large caliber pieces were huddled in the snow,
and a protruding cape fold cold its yawning black mouth threatening to the field. In the trenches,
the immaculate whiteness almost blinded by the light, and cheerful Arga margins were unknown
in pure dressed. Trees with its stark white branches shaped trees did not appear, but a broken warp
waste tissue. The half-buried houses barely threw for his fireplace, covered of fine creams
and crystalline peaks, a stream of smoke rising slowly stain Heaven and resolved in the heavy
gray ink atmosphere as masses thrown into a huge Sea starch. Inside the houses reigned, however,
the hustle and bustle, be collected by people all the love of homes
where whole burning oak.

Outside, everything was frozen, even war, which had stopped moving in the field beat in the
heart of housing.

Against what they expected and feared Salvador Navarro got carried
away, and after installed housing so gloomy and sad than the hospital
where she previously lived, exaltation was changed to dejection and
indifference roughness, not without some moments of softness and even
discreet and tranquil grounds.

No contributed little to poverty alleviation was the loneliness and not allow Salvador to visit
him any person, because in the hospital the other patients were happy to warm you helmets, contradict
their vehemence or encouraged in their follies. A woman of character excellent, as remarkable
for its application and for your patience, I attended, and a peaceful cleric with him several
times. Doña Hermenegilda, as they called the owner, the widow of a forest rangers of Borunda and
had seven children, of whom, except the most small, who emigrated to the Americas, there were
none for having absorbed all on the various wars of the peninsula from the famous Independence
to the injured in Catalonia. As warriors were in small gaps or intervals of peace, none knew how to
do something worthwhile, and the little property that had been going to the lenders, dissolving
all in binges, gambling dens, unnecessary travel, hunting and weapons purchases broils. This and the
disastrous end of them all, was born in Dona Hermenegilda an abomination live as wars that could
lie was not anything concerning the fiery Mars and worship bloody. She said that a nation
of cowards would be most happy and prosperous world and when I objected to that nation would not
be in control of herself because enslave any foreign conqueror, responded that her beau ideal
was that all nations of the world are also cowards, for this to become a globe populated at all wise
beings. Doña Hermenegilda Navarre was not.

Could not have chosen on purpose Salvador person to care for a man wearing as is known, battles
evil. I had equal confidence of success in the election of Father Zorraquín for spiritual
companion and friend of the patient, because although it may sometimes taken at this priest
of the kindest, most gentle person in the world, others seemed if not rebellious and ambitious.
He was chaplain of nuns Zorraquín poor and could not hide their feverish desire to get to another
higher ecclesiastical position. Was no longer young the chaplain and had left the flower elapse
of its existence without merit enforce I thought to possess. All of your rants on this subject of
vanity concluded by saying, "Ya, times will come and justice, yes,
I come .... So we will not see the choirs of cathedrals cassock full
of masons, while the good church perish.

"

Garrote and not spent most of the day in bed. Forces had recovered, and bad, that once seemed deeply
rooted and owner of the person, allowed for some hours of complete. Very sensitive to cold, often
near the fire, watched steadily, throwing embers amid his eyes, as if to turn it on them, and
did not move until, inflamed his face with red reflections, reached a degree of irritation unbearable.
Then he retreated, retaining in her eye the image of the coals dazzling. After taking a few
walks around the room, until it has cooled, back together the flames and was delighted again contemplating
the red tongues of bluish tip, burned chips falling from the wood used to whisper of leaves,
and then languished ash asleep.

He ate little. Do not read anything, and his only distraction was pulling the foil to his brother.
But this entertainment lasted just minutes, for the low strength of the convalescent. Spoke
so little, sometimes even deprived of the necessities for not asking. In the long space of a month
spent three runs conversations held both brothers. In The first spoke of the conditions of the houses
in Pamplona, ??Cathedral of the citadel, of the fortifications, the Rochapea and other local
issues, which showed his neat Navarro knowledge of the city. In the second, Salvador told
him about the war, trying to to test the trial of his brother, and had no little surprise to see
that addressed the Garrote matter with a poise and serenity of wonderful ideas. The third symposium
was all he expression personal feelings, and it might serve as a basis of agreement between
two men both were hated. Hence it must be placed among the most precious thing they have spoken
our characters, and played with integrity to be building our readers
as it was Hermenegilda Dona, who was honored to be present at the
gab.

-XXI-

One evening, after dinner, they both very passionate
praise a delicious stew wild pigeons were put Doña Hermenegilda.

Navarro then walked to the fireplace, if it were to plunge into it,
and as Savior admonished for that particular like crisps, Navarro
was removed, looked at his brother without the usual frown eyebrows,
and said these soft words

- Finished for driving like a boy.

What more do you want? Gradually I've been doing your prisoner without a fight, and medicines
first, with care then you've been winning. If there is no intention in all this unknown, now
declare that I am grateful the good I've done.

- An intention and a plan is in me - Salvador said - but both are
quite clear.

I wanted beat you with the arms of good and overpower by force of charity, emanating from a relationship
did not want to recognize. Do you recognize it now? Is it done by a stranger what I have done?

-
No - said noble decision Garrote -. It is not done by a stranger what have you done for me.
I have had days of great blackout in my head, but I see clearly,
and although I imagine sophistry and subtleties to misrepresent your
behavior to me, I can not.

The truth is stronger than my thoughts. I will have been imposed, imposing, and now you're above
me with a double character, because I can not completely separate in you hated man loving brother,
I do not think you can separate them as the two live.

- I've been more fortunate than you - said Salvador, apart again from the fire, which attracted as
a butterfly - because I've long since forgotten all offenses, has long I took all the rancor
and pulling them from me I missed out, as this role check fire.

Salvador threw a paper fire that burned instantly with playful flare.

Instinctively Navarro went to the fireplace and tried to pull the paper was burning, but burning
back fingers. This looked like a spark of madness, inspired Salvador the following:

- Do not put your hand in the fire to take what has fallen into it.

You, like me, you need to make forgive to be forgiven, you need to buy the generosity with generosity
and forgetfulness with oblivion.

- If you could forget ...-- murmured Navarro, always enraptured contemplation of the flame -.