 On the first night the captain tasted the voluptuous self the
break-out. I no longer had a woman at his side as an extension inevitable; living among men ...
And appreciated chastity as a pleasure that was offered with all the charms of new.

The second night, on the narrow, smelly standard camera, she was revealed by memories, returning
to sprout. Oh, Freya! ... When see her again! ...

The Count and he spoke little, but spent long hours together, sitting next to the wheel the helm,
watching the sea. Were more friends than on land, although they passed among them limited words.
The common life slowed down the arrogance of pretending diplomat
and was the captain discover new merits in him.

The ease with which he walked around the ship and certain technical
words used against their will Ferragut allowed no more doubts about
his true profession.

- You are a Marine - he said suddenly.

The Count nodded, judging dissimulation useless. Yes, it was ocean.

"So what am I doing here? What I have given command Ferragut thought ?...» So, without managing
Why sought their help this man who could run the ship without assistance.

Undoubtedly it was a naval officer, and a fleet should come from all sailors blonde who worked as
automatons. The discipline made them follow the orders of Ferragut, but they guessed that his
command was no more than a simple delegation, and that the real leader
board was the Count.

The schooner came in sight of the islands of Lipari, then twisting course toward the West, followed
the Sicilian coast from Cape Gallo after San Vito. From this set
her bow to the Southwest, going in search of the islands Egadi.

To expect in these waters, where it begins to narrow the Mediterranean
between Tunisia and Sicily towering volcanic peak of Pantelleria island
in the middle of the huge close.

Short enough for him to count instructions so that the direction taken by Ferragut was under to his
wishes. Ended up not hide the admiration he felt for his master navigator.

- Well you know the sea - said the count.

The captain shrugged smiling. It was truly yours. Could call mare nostrum, just like the Romans,
their former rulers.

As if divining the bottom to the naked eye, kept the ship on the edge of extensive bank of Adventure.
Sailed slowly with only a few candles, crossing and recrossing the same waters.

Kaledine, to spend two days, began to fret. Ferragut heard repeatedly muttering how Gibraltar's
name. The passage from the Atlantic to the Mediterranean was the greatest danger for he expected.

From
the deck of the schooner could only see a short distance, and the count rose again and times
scales of rope rigging, to cover his eyes with a larger space.

One morning he shouted from the top to the captain, pointing to a horizon point. Should do
course in the same direction. There were what he sought.

Ferragut obeyed him, and half an hour after they appeared, one after another, two long vessels
and low railing, sailing at high speed.

They were like destroyers, but without masts, without chimneys, sliding almost at water level,
painted a gray color that made them confused with the sea at a distance.

Placed on both sides of the boat, approaching it in such a way that seemed likely encontrón to
crush with their helmets.

Several metal wires grew out of their covers to screw in the sticks
of the schooner aground, forming a single mass of the three ships,
which together followed the slow wave of the sea.

Ulysses looked curiously at the two co-flotation. "These were the
famous underwater?

... Saw its steel roof hatches and chimneys protruding round, by
poking groups of animals.

The officers and crew were dressed as fishermen from the coast North,
wearing one-piece waterproof and waxed hull.

Many of them waved high in these helmets, and the Count replied waving his cap. Blonde sailors
the schooner shouted, responding to the cheers of his comrades of the submersible "Deutschland
über alles !...»

But this excitement in the solitude of the sea, which amounted to a song gives triumph lasted very
little.

Whistles sounded, the men ran covered sidewalks, and Ferragut saw invaded the vessel by two
rows of sailors.

At a time when the hatches were opened, hit a sound of broken timber and cans of essence began
to be transhipped from both sides. In around the boat was filled with water drawers open, they
walked away with gentle floating.

The Count heard in the stern a man dressed in waterproof fabric, which was an officer.

He related the passage through the Strait of Gibraltar completely submerged, looking through
the periscope the English torpedo on security patrol.

- Nothing
major - continued the officer -, nor the slightest incident ... A
great navigation.

- May God punish England!

"- Said the count, now called the commander.

- May God punish! - Said the officer, as if to say "Amen."

Ferragut saw forgotten, ignored by all these men who filled the schooner. Some sailors pushed
him in the haste of their work.

Was the patron of the boat, a civilian lack of hierarchy to be men of war.

Began to understand why he had been given command of the small vessel. The count remained. Saw
him approaching as if he suddenly remembered, holding out his right hand with kindness comradery.

-
Captain, thank you very much.

This service is for those who are not forgotten.

Maybe we will not never ... But if you ever need me, know who I am.

And as if presented to another person, said their names ceremoniously: Archibald von Kramer, Lieutenant
of the Imperial Navy ... His personality was not entirely diplomatic
false.

He had served as naval attache at various embassies.

Then he gave instructions for the return. Could expect to face Palermo. A boat would in search
of him to take you to the ground.

Everything was planned ... Should hand over the reins to the true owner of the schooner: a coward
who had become too expensive to pay the rent of the ship, but without daring to threaten him.
In the chamber were the papers in order to justify this navigation.

- Say hello on my behalf to the ladies ... Tell them you will soon hear about us. Let us make
us masters of the Mediterranean.

Continued unloading fuel.

Ferragut he saw Von Kramer introduced by the hood Open one of the submarines. Then she thought
she recognized in the other two sailors submersible of those who had manned the schooner, which
was received with shouts and hugs his comrades, then getting a tubular hatch.

The discharge lasted until midafternoon. Ulysses had not imagined that the small vessel will many
boxes. When the warehouse was empty, the last sailors disappeared Germanic and with them the
cables that held the boat.

An officer shouted that he could leave.

The two submersibles, more flattened on the sea on his arrival, with swollen deposits essence and oil,
began to move away.

Finding himself alone in the stern of the schooner, he felt a sudden uneasiness.

"What have you done? ... What have you done? "Cried a voice in his brain.

But looking to the three passengers and the boy who had been the only
crew forgot his remorse.

Should move a lot to make up for this lack of arms. Two nights and one day just rested, driving
around the same time the rudder and engine, it did not dare to employ all their sails with this
shortage of men.

When he found himself in a sunrise, opposite the port of Palermo, who began to extinguish their
lights, Ferragut could sleep for the first time, leaving manager to one of the sailors surveillance
the ship, which was maintained with the canopy collected. By mid-morning he was awakened voices
shouting from the sea, "Where is the captain?"

He saw a boat and several men who jumped to the schooner. He was the owner, who came to recover
their vessel to enter port it legally. The same can be commissioned to carry Ulysses ashore with
his little suitcase.

He was accompanied by a man red and obese, which seemed have great influence on the pattern.

- Since you will be aware of what happens - he said, as did two rowers glide the boat over the
waves -. These bandits ... These mandolinists! ...

Ulysses without knowing why, nodded. This was a German bourgeois indignation:
one of those who helped the doctor.

Hear enough.

Half an hour later, Ferragut jumped into a dock, no one objected to his landing like protecting
their fellow obese sleep every surveillance. Despite this, the good Lord showed a burning desire
away from him, to flee, according to their own issues.

He smiled when he learned that Odysseus wanted to leave immediately
for Naples.

"You do well ..." The train departed two hours later. And I got into a cab, disappearing precipitation.

The
captain, being alone, almost thought he had dreamed the previous days.

Palermo came back to see after an absence of many years.

Experienced the joy of a Sicilian banished to cross the country with several cars pulled by
hacks whose feathers and boxes defaced depicting scenes from the liberated Jerusalem. He recalled
the names of main roads, which were those of old Spanish viceroys.

He saw the statues in a square four kings of Spain ... But all these
things inspired him only a fleeting interest.

He was concerned about the extraordinary movement of the streets, the crowd forming groups to
hear reading newspapers. Many windows were intertwined with national flags France, England
and Belgium.

On arriving at the station knew the truth out about the incident he
had alluded to the merchant while they were in the boat.

It was war! ... Italy had broken off relations the day before with the Central Powers.

Ulysses felt troubled by anxiety, remembering what he had done in the Mediterranean. Popular
groups believed cheering passing behind the flags were going to guess
his achievement, landing on him.

Needed to get away from this patriotic enthusiasm, and felt satisfied to be inside of a car
... Also, going to see Freya, and its image was enough to evoke to vanish all his remorse.

The journey was long and difficult. The necessities of war were being felt from the first time
absorbing all the media.

The train stood still for hours to make way for other trains loaded
with men and military equipment.

In all seasons there were soldiers in battle dress, flags, crowds
cheered.

When he reached Naples, fatigued by a journey of forty-eight hours,
it seemed that the driver too slowly headed towards the old palace
of Chiaia.

In crossing the hall with his little suitcase, cut him off the goalkeeper, thick comadre frizzy
hair and dusty, there were only interviewed a few times in the depths of his cave.

- The ladies do not live in the house ... The ladies have gone suddenly
with Karl, his employee.

And he explained the rest of this flight with a hostile and evil smile.

Ferragut knew he should not insist. The big woman was furious about the leak of the ladies Tedesco, and
examining the ocean as a suspected spy, good for a complaint patriotic.

However, professional honesty, we warned that the blonde signora, the youngest and sympathetic had thought
of him to leave, leaving his luggage in the goal.

Ulises hastened to disappear. And send someone to collect your bags. And taking another carriage,
went to the harbor of Santa Lucia ... What unexpected blow!

At his entrance, the goalkeeper made a gesture of surprise and astonishment.

Before he reached Ferragut to ask for Freya, with the vague hope that they had taken refuge in
the hotel, this man gave him the news.

- Captain, his son was here, waiting.

The captain stammered, confused: "What son ?...»

The man brought the keys embroidered travel book, showing a line: "Esteban Ferragut. Barcelona.
"And recognized Ulysses the letter of your child while he pressed his chest with an indescribable
anguish.

The shock left him speechless, and the porter took advantage of his silence to keep talking.

It was a nice guy and intelligent ... Some mornings he had accompanied him to teach best of
the city. He had been connected with the consignees of the Mare Nostrum,
looking everywhere for news of his father.

At last, convinced that the captain was and back to Barcelona, ??had started to turn the previous
day.

- If you get twelve hours before, still here.

The doorman did not know more. Busy to meet the orders of a South American ladies, no was able
to greet the young man when he left the hotel. Torn between making the trip on a steam English
to Marseilles or go by train to Genoa, where to find direct ship Barcelona.

Ferragut wanted to know when he arrived, and the porter, raising his eyes, turned to a during
mental arithmetic ... Finally scored a date, and the sailor, in his
turn, was examined by his memories.

Was given a slap on the forehead, rough as a punch.

It was her young son had seen entering the harbor when he was going
to take charge the schooner to carry fuel to German submarines.

VIII

The young Telemachus

Whenever the Mare Nostrum back to Barcelona, ??Esteban Ferragut felt a sense glare, just as
if it was opened a glorious window in his dark existence child and family monotonous.

No longer wandering the harbor, admiring from afar the great ocean liners anchored off the Columbus
monument or cargo vapors that lined the commercial docks.

A vessel important was his absolute property for several weeks. The captain and officers spent
ground time with their families.

Toni, the second was the only one who slept on board. Many of the sailors asked permission to live
in the city, and the steam is entrusted to Caragol Uncle guard with half a dozen men for daily
cleaning.

The small Ferragut could be under the illusion that he was the captain of the Mare Nostrum. He
moved imagining that the bridge was braving a storm; examining instruments
water with a severity of knowledgeable expert, ran all departments
habitable ship, down to the cellars, which aireaban, open, pending
charge, and finally got into the boat service, undoing of the scale,
to row a few hours with more satisfaction Yoles that in light of the
Race Club.

His visits ended in the kitchen, invited by his uncle Caragol, who
treated him with a familiarity paternal.

The young oarsman was sweating. "A refresquet ?...» and preparing the sweet mixture, I did fall to
men of a single jump in the nebulosity of intoxication.

Stephen had much the "soft" chef. His imagination, excited by the frequent Travel reading novels had
made him conceive a type of marine heroic, daring, philanderer, and
able to swallow the beverage jars incendiary without blinking.

He wanted If so, every good mariner should drink.

While on the ground did not know other spirits that the innocent and sweet kept by his mother
family holiday once trod the deck of the ship felt the need for fluids
alcoholics, to show that he was a man.

"There was a beverage in the world that could with him ... And the second "refresh" the uncle
was sunk in a placid Caragol nirvana, seeing all pink and considerably enlarged: the sea, nearby ships,
the docks and the mountain of Montjuic, which served as background.

The cook, to behold with his eyes lovingly sick, he thought he had
a jump dozen years ago and is still in Valencia talking to the other
Ferragut that University escape to paddle in the harbor.

Almost came to believe that he had lived twice.

The boy listened to the complaints, interrupting with solemn advice.

This Ferragut fifteen years of life showed discontent. He was a man, and had to live among
women: his mother and two nieces who accompanied him making lace, as she had accompanied once
to his mother Dona Cristina. I wanted to be a sailor, and he was forced to study the Baccalaureate
unfriendly materials. Can a captain needs to know Latin? ...

Wanted to end his life as a student, to become a pilot and follow
the practices in the bridge next to his father.

Maybe you'll command the thirty years or another ship Mare Nostrum similar.

Meanwhile, the lure of the sea drew him away from the classroom, going to see Caragol at the
same time the roll call teachers to the students, noting their absence.

The old man and his protégé are recruited in the kitchen with a responsible
concern.

Steps and voices on the cover altered their conversation. "Hide!" And Stephen crawled under
a table or hidden in the storeroom of the provisions, while the cook came out to meet the newcomer
with a seraphic face.

Sometimes it was Toni, and the boy ventured out, with his silence. It also will wanted and approved
of his distaste for the books.

If from time to time was the captain who came to the ship for a few
moments, he spoke Caragol obstructing the door with his body, while
smiling slyly.

For Stephen, the two most worthy of admiration were the sea and his father. All heroes novelistic
that from the pages of the books had gone to stay in his imagination had the face and gestures
of Captain Ferragut.

As a child he had seen sometimes to mourn his mother with sad resignation. Years later, to meet
with his precocious little boy watched the relationships between
men and women, he felt that all these tears should be motivated by
indiscretions and infidelities Far navigator.

He loved his mother with a passion only child and spoiled, but not least the captain admired,
excusing all sins that might commit.

His father was the bravest man and most beautiful land. So he saw it. And one day, examining the
drawers in his cabin, found several photographs of women wearing the foot the names of distant countries,
his admiration was even larger. All must be mad with love for the captain of the Mare Nostrum.
Ay! For more than him to do to be a man, never get to catch up with
the winner to had given the existence ...

When the ship came to Barcelona
without their owner around Naples, the son of Ferragut experienced
no surprise.

Toni, who was always short, lavished on this occasion.
Captain Ferragut had been there for a business, but would soon return.
His second will expected at any moment. Perhaps hiciese land travel
to get there first.

Esteban was amazed to see that his mother did
not accept this absence as an insignificant event. The good lady was
concerned and the watery eyes. Her feminine instinct made him sensed
something wrong with the delay of her husband.

In the afternoon,
when he visited, as usual, his former love the professor, the two
spoke slowly, with measured words, but understood his eyes during
the long intervals of silence.

Pedro arrived at the pinnacle of his
illustrious career with the possession of a professorship at the Institute
Barcelona, ??visiting every afternoon to tape, and a half hours from
his room exactly clockwork. Not the slightest thought of impurity
professor never stirred. The past had forgotten ... But he needed
daily to see the captain's wife knitting lace between two young nieces
as she had seen years before the widow of Ferragut.

Let him know
the most important events in Barcelona and around the world, discussing
them the future destiny of Stephen, he heard her sweet voice with
rapture, to attach great importance to the details of domestic economy
or to the descriptions of religious holidays, just because it was
she who had such accounts.

Often remained in a long silence. Don
Pedro represented patience, humor equal respect silent, quiet and
clean the house, lost his composure only monastic the present owner
for a few days, including two trips.

Tape had been accustomed to
the visits of Professor. By checking the clock half past three sensed
his footsteps on the stairs.

If any evening did not arrive, the sweet
Penépole suffered a disappointment.

- What will happen to Don Pedro?
- Asked with concern to his nieces.

This question was sometimes extended
to the child, but Stephen, without hating the visitor liked him very
little.

Don Pedro belonged to the group of those gentlemen of the
Institute that the government paid for teaser with their explanations
and their reviews to the youth. Still remembered two years had happened
in his chair, and in a chamber of torture, suffering the punishment
of Latin. He was also a coward, always afraid and did not dare take
cold to go out on days cloudy if the umbrella was missing. He spoke
of you brave men.

- I do not know his mother answered ...-- -. May
be stuck in bed, with seven headscarves.

When I returned Don Pedro,
the house resumed its normal slow clock and safe. Doña Film, from
consultation to consultation, he had finally consider indispensable
for your cooperation. Professor sweetly made up for the husband's
authority traveler, he had to represent the head of the family in
all foreign affairs ... I often looked forward to Ferragut's wife
for advice urgently, and he issued his opinion in a slow voice, after
much reflection.

Esteban was intolerable that this man, who was but
a distant relative of grandmother, meddling in the affairs of the
house, trying to address him as a father. But irritated him even more
to see in a good mood and with claims of funny. He was angry that
flames Penépole his mother and him Telemachus ... "Uncle lateral and
heavy!"

The young Telemachus did not hesitate in their revenge. Small
interrupted their diversions for "Work" in the hall, next to the neighbor
to the door hanger. And the poor professor was dented his top hat,
hair in disarray, or in carrying out the Haldas several spit coat.

Now
the boy was confined to ignore its existence, going before him without
giving him, greeting him only when his mother told him to.

The day
brought news of the return of steam without their captain, Don Pedro
made the visit longer than usual. Tape shed two tears on the laces,
but had to cut her tears, overcome by the good sense to your counselor.

-
Why mourn and head warm with so many unfounded assumptions? ... What
you should do, my dear, is to call that Toni is the second ship. He
should know all ... Maybe tell you the truth.

Stephen received the
commission to seek the next day, and could see the concern Toni experienced
knowing that he wanted to talk Dona Cinta. Ship left the gloomy silence,
as if it leads to death suffer torture. Then she sang quietly, it
was in The indication of serious concern.

Unable to attend the young
Telemachus to the interview, but he hung near the door closed overheard
some words louder than they slipped through the cracks. His mother
was the one who spoke more often. Toni dully repeating the same excuses:
"I do not know. The captain is going to get from one point to another
... 