 But seeing that all was in vain, made the determination
to leave without the consent of his mother, without reaching the ears of his father, and if possible,
without them knowing more than his chariot drivers. To those people who had placed their trust
gave the necessary orders for as soon as prepare the tools needed to start over. Everything
was already prepared, but did chance Isabel was advised of this resolution unexpectedly, which
immediately sent Don Juan de Fonseca, bishop of Cordoba, that the plea in his name does not go away. A
about to board the carriage was already Doña Juana when it was sent to the Queen. A moment
then failed to find. Sent instantly D. Juan de Fonseca to retire the carriage, and then went to
see the Archduchess, to which he found already at the door of the palace de la Mota, prepared to
march in costume on the road. That required compliance with its position, made her knowledgeable
of the order of the Catholic Queen, intimidated to return to his apartment, but the Archduchess
was not already the case to keep considerations of any kind, so do not said a word, in the heat
of his fiery passion was no more than mysteries, secret agents from rival and her unfaithful
husband, who had no other entertainment to delay their departure. The Bishop of Cordoba hurried
in vain even presenting its instances at every word the name of his mother, but already tired of
hearing disobeyed the order and prayers of this, and preparing to leave: "Let me, he said, is
a sacred duty that I will not stop Anything in this journey. "Then the bishop sent to close
the door, leaving the part of in at the unhappy Juana.

Seeing this lady was confined to the height of his despair, and began
to utter both and that insolent insult phrases, D. Juan de Fonseca
was extremely angry, in spite of having been summoned to the Archduchess
through his camera gentleman, D. Miguel Ferrera.

He would not return, but took the path of Segovia, where he then was Queen Isabel.

When he came D. Juan de Fonseca to where she was the queen gave him part of what has happened with
the princess Isabella, in spite of what was weak and many businesses that gave him his high
position, he set out for Mota in Medina del Campo, presumed that
perhaps his presence would give up his daughter as a project for her
sensitive.

After the usual Fulfilment and to which no attention is paid, promised it would go very soon
to join her husband. "You never want to God, he said the queen, my will or that the king your
father is that of you from the side of your husband, and if anything else on this subject
have dared to say, despreciadla. "

These and other reasons we esponia Isabel, and she in her frenzy, but that did not respond: "They
are useless the prayers of the world: I will not give one iota ... The father of my children!
... I want to see "...

Spoke, and in tears, threw herself on the floor, refusing care all treated to lavish.

Completed and the Cortes of Aragon, did not think it prudent to King
Ferdinand, stop for longer his journey, because it was knowing what
was happening with her daughter, whose mental alienation fostered
every day, and it was quite possible that the detainees, had been
due to declare their folly.

Premeditating this very reason, make available a fleet commanded the
Laredo port of giving the same time his daughter, permission to practice
his expedition to Flanders.

The transports of joy that undergoes Doña Juana with his father's last wishes are indescribable,
and few days later he prepared to make your desired expedition.

                    

CHAPTER III.

The bad weather that was cause for the journey of Doña Juana is made more long, and interview he
had with the mistress of Philip the Fair.

On March 15, 1504, Juana went accompanied by their parents to the point where went to boarding (Laredo),
but everything seemed to come against all seemed to reveal his will. A strong and continuing
to be stopped temporarily sail. This to grow torments of the princess, and take many more of
indignation, because everything seemed to combine to prevent the reunion with her husband.
Two months had to reside in Laredo, which were the the storm lasted, and two months they were
two centuries, if we see the disposition in which was this lady,
and greatly aggravated their ongoing suffering.

Mid April did set sail, arriving in nine days happily to Dicks, a distance of three leagues and
a half of Bruges.

At this point she was expecting her husband, who expressed an unspeakable joy as he turned to embrace,
and she, according to the affection that the painting, he seemed completely oblivious of a so
just resentment. Although the two mutually give evidence of love and happy, entertained both fatal
and mortifications passions, the Archduke, for the passionate love
affair with the maid; and the more rabid jealousy, Doña Juana.

But lived with the hope that the first ever this would know of his
love: and second, to avenge a woman as big disappointments had made
it suffer.

Moved from Bruges to Brussels and here took up residence at the time.

Who can hide enough of the researchers insightful investigations of a woman? This reflection
should make Philip the Fair. Who can not hide from the scrutinizing looks dependents of a
palace, where trade is a kind of gossip and tangles, giving publicity to their advantage to all the
faults of their rulers?

Great peace seemed to reign at first since the arrival of Doña Juana, the Archduke to not disclose
to anyone what was in his imagination, dissembling as could the love of her blonde, but he
was wrong, not even his most hidden steps escaped the penetration
of his wife.

Palace gave them to his master daily report if jealous of his wife; and these same palace to satisfy
themselves as Archduchess detail could help to irritate it more. For one of these came to know that
one of the things that I had loved his maid's husband was her beautiful blond hair populated. But
not content even with this statement, he indicated the places and times where it commonly
gave appointments.

With the previous relationship came to completely exhausted the patience of the Archduchess,
because had fully recognized that he had employed in vain all the resources to provide its unblemished
love to see if this sort to disappear from her husband a passion
she never thought rooted, because he believed a whim.

His jealousy, restrained for some time, were from This day a violent frenzy that increased
their suffering. Occasionally they had already mediated several words between the spouses, but
the Archduke, very in love with his blonde, to yourselves, practicing with the greatest coolness.
These things it was impossible lasted so long, because no one could meet his love, and the
other suffered such humiliation and diversion, and also because the passions of mind can not be contained.

A
terrible scene, through an oversight of Philip, took place. He surprised his wife with dear
... Great was the scandal that circulated throughout the Court, and great was the work cost
him the fury of his wife tarnished because this was not thinking
more than in the revenge.

And something admirable about this woman! ... This revenge was involved did not want his husband,
as though he had come to notice the indifference and disdain that used to treat, however idolized
him wholeheartedly.

His anger was expressly dedicated to her opponent, to outraged that woman who had taken what most
loved on earth. And thanks to the timidity of abandoning all the love of her husband, partly
repressed.

It was seen the palace in Brussels on simply out cries, repeated contentions, and broken words of the
young princes, but as I was putting on his part to hide the archduke, to avoid scandal.

The usual jealous princess who gave rise to not cease to haunt the time of revenge, but unfortunately
arrived.

One day fatal day! that moving your eyes from wandering all the objects that surrounded, he found
the maid, he picked up a well- sharp scissors, I always was armed, she was launched on which
the eagle on its prey, and before her opponent would have been avoided,
and had been stripped of his golden hair.

Not satisfied yet, filled her with bruises and scratches, and we can assure that if the screams
the maid, had not been visiting the site of the bloody scene to all
dependents the palace, and even to the same husband, it was likely
he had killed the she had been cause of their suffering.

Felipe, seeing his beloved stripped of the object that most excites you, filled with indignation:
and were so many insults, so many offensive and insulting words directed to his wife, who
had said he was not equal to the most despised woman in society.

Having seen that Felipe was in this way, contributed a great way to disrupt full trial. Juana could
never believe such treatment in her husband.

The shocking scene you just painted, he soon reached the ears of Queen Elizabeth, and had such
a great feeling that was the cause of his illness was further aggravated.

However, sought by all means at its disposal, to introduce peace among their children, not
be so possible to achieve for some time: the Archduchess had a wound that was not easy to
heal. Finally, they reached their pleas to reconciliation. Joined husbands, but not so Juana
regained peace of mind.

Meanwhile Isabel's health waned by the minute. His sufferings were so continuous no longer doubted
his early death.

One of the main characters of the court, only Crown of Castile to his daughter Juana, and failing
this to D. Charles, his grandson; but warning that if the first was prevented, and Charles did not
have twenty years govern D. Fernando, until he came to this age.

Indeed, on 26 November 1504 Medina del Campo died in Queen Elizabeth Catholic, and the next
day ordered D. Fernando proclaimed by Queen of Spain to his daughter
Archduchess of Austria.

The Court shall in Toro January 11, 1508, were First they swore to Queen Juana by owner of
vast estates in Spain. No could then leave the Archduke of Flanders, both for the many issues
pending therein, for the advanced state of pregnancy of the queen being born by little time by Princess
Mary.

Juana reset your delivery, they stood in the way, but a heavy storm, he made arrival to England,
whose kingdom was well received. A few days after split with direction to Spain, arriving on
April 26, 1506 La Coruna, where he expected most part of the greatness
to receive and pay a fitting tribute to their new monarch.

On their way Valladolid were sworn in, and there enjoyed the festivities that had prevented its
gift.

He seemed extremely relieved at this time Doña Juana, no more than trying to please to her husband
in everything, and leaving him to rule the kingdom to his taste. But how little it lasted this
happiness! So that concluded the Cortes of Valladolid, determined through the main capital
of Spain to become known, because so required everywhere. Began Burgos his race, but unfortunately
oh! In one afternoon they went for a walk, heated up therefore D. Felipe in a game of ball, which
he suffered pneumonia, whose result was subjected to six days, leaving Juana pregnant six months.
Felipe died Beautiful day on September 29, 1506, when he was only twenty-eight years.

Such was the powerful influence that worked in the imagination of
the new Queen's unexpected death her husband, that many days was beside
himself, and locked in the room that she looked more gloomy and sad.

During this alienating, they had made the funeral and therefore the king's body buried in the Charterhouse
of Miraflores. Once this came to his notice, sent it bring in a clearly arranged and bituminized,
because I wanted to live away from him.

So was performed, and not allow anyone to enter, carrying the days and nights looking at the
remnants of the idol of his love. [*] No kind of prayers made her withdraw away from the body. In vain
were the warnings of Cardinal Cisneros; useless against those of women and main characters, noting
the need to address business of the kingdom. Remained closed from inside the room and ordered
a window for which there could send some food.

[* See the engraving that goes in front of this story.]

Many times it would great to know that the alteration was Spain, and answered if your child was ready,
came to rule, and if not, his father, that she had other the most sacred duties to fulfill
as a widow.

Several of the characters believed, to hear her talk to sanity sometimes, if the mistress of
her husband would have used some spells to make her suffer so terribly. What credulity of
the time! Not long before no deviation to the same Queen Juana will appear unbearable that
existence, and shortly after called Cardinal Cisneros, informing
him I could not live any longer in the capital where her husband was
dead, but the Cardinal I wanted to suspend his determination then,
on account of being in an advanced state of pregnancy, but the will
of Doña Juana was always determined, dared not oppose its mandate.

The court moved to Valladolid, by order of Queen expresses.

Using very short days left Burgos on 20 December 1506, accompanied by an increased number of subjects
with lighted torches, many Franciscan friars also with lights, Prior of the Carthusian monks
who were saying and some daily Masses for the soul of the sovereign, whose carton was in the
midst of this funeral procession, followed by car and unhappy Juana Ladies and gentlemen of
the palace. Thus movement until Torquemada where the queen would not go on, staying at the
home of a cleric, and exposes that health status not allowed to continue. On January 14, 1507
gave birth to this town The Infanta Doña Catalina.

Sad and heartbreaking was this year for Spain. A consequence of poverty and lack large developed
a fever that caused innumerable damage. "And you believe that in spite of being the Torquemada
people one of the most invaded by the epidemic were not enough the entreaties of Cardinal Queen
to continue its path? Were many and repeated instances that to this cost, to make late April to
return to starting out with the same device at first, but soon tired of traveling. On arriving at
two distant Plates Torquemada leagues, he wanted to take up residence in it, would live with
more comfort exposes in a large population. So he returned to shut himself up in a small village
with lifeless body of her husband, not ceasing to speak, and with affection, and with complaints,
and with counterclaims, which further increase their incurable madness.

Everything remained so until the news gave her father's coming to Spain. This news was received
with great pleasure, because at the time expressed a desire to find out with D. Fernando, in Castile,
advirtierdo which was to be in short stages and with the same funeral
procession.

Unnecessarily tired ruler of the kingdom, archbishop of Toledo, to make day travel without the
body of her husband, all was in vain, so that there was no other resource repeat every night burial.
So they walked to enter Tórtoles, population where his father was pleased to embrace. But what
was the surprise of D. Fernando to find his dearest daughter in that situation, those wild eyes,
his face cadaverous and that wandering eye! When it came to mind was what had caused his daughter
was in that state, it choked off, and big tears streaked her cheeks. Juana was motionless, weeping,
father of my heart? said, your daughter can no longer imitate. When I surprised my husband's
mistress, I ran out of tears. Consider what would my sadness!

Juana had reached the last degree of madness, was completely crazy,
but nevertheless owner was Queen of Spain and his name and consent
were necessary to give some character to the acts of government.

This consideration prompted the Catholic king to enter into some consultations with their daughter
for the best deal of business and back again to govern dominions of Spain. Joanna, meanwhile,
admitted without any reply as he proposed his father, putting only one condition, that had
to leave to stay in the village of Arcos, "in complete freedom, without having to intervene in another
business, to spend the day the rest of this life, next to the body of her husband. "Much of it
worked vary from this thought, but being useless was granted permission
by sending prepare a house in Arcos, worthy of the person who was
going to live.

Over a year and a half Juana lived in the village of Arcos but nothing had been improved his madness.
Was to see, say some, the animated conversations that this unfortunate lady, had the corpse
of her husband talks that further increase their delirium, and that instead of alleviating,
aggravates it. "Why no answer, Philip? he said: Callais! ... I still sereis !...» These words Proferia
unfaithful to her husband, and others that would cause shame listen.

From Santa Maria del Campo wrote D. His daughter Fernando warning of the need I had to leave to
Tordesillas and making it more healthy population know was that the
village Arcos, and consequently had determined, to receive on their
way to this point.

Dona Juana, was perfectly, according to the answer, in Arcos. So seeing the Catholic king that
his daughter did not accede to his entreaties made the determination, to go for her to see if their
presence could accompany him to Tordesillas. So did D. Fernando Having failed with the influence
exercised over her daughter goes to make that point, but Traveling on the same apparatus in the
other expeditions. Be the temperament to have changed, Whether the trip was not to his liking, the
fact is that Queen Juana was more furious each time, and took more increase its already incurable
disease.

The old Luis Ferrer was the one responsible for the care of Doña Juana, and which is I could not
see, that's why it was a huge opposition to all that the charge made, pleasure in executing the contrary.
If the pleading, for example, lie down in bed did in the ground and if available to be moved
to another room, but decent and well ventilated closed with more strength bolts of it was. When
it was cold, skin discarded and objects that provided shelter, and the more we begged to dress
Luis Ferrer and asease, walking harder dirty and badly dressed.

Shortly after he put on his head the mania of eating and drinking, and there was occasion for
them to go three days without taking anything up that beset by hunger, took something, striving
for dishes where the food sent to him not go out of his room, so that these objects soiled with
others, gave a foul odor to that dwelling, and impossible for both to bear it. There were moments
when, after a great delusion, enjoyed some reason, and lamented that they had torn the crown of
temples and is not happy his enemies with a burst of this kind, had been buried in a so stinking
dungeon guarded by a guard as negligible.

These words came with lightning speed to the ears of the Roman Catholic D. Fernando, so is that
the next year of 1510, when he passed to the Cortes of Monzon, made by visiting, and made sure
everything came together a great council to discuss the method was to look forward to his daughter,
he knew that the presence of D. Luis Ferrer's tormented, the board came out, that after having
provided all necessary toiletries, clothes and food, would be elected twelve ladies for continuing
care of her, and every night to stay awake to compel her to dress, undress and move from shirt,
even against their will. Twenty days was accompanying the King Catholic Doña Juana, which was less
badly, but after that they are obliged to execute the agreement by his father, seized her in
a rage so great that no one could stay at his side. More proactive Cardinal Cisneros greats
who had made the council believed Don appropriate Jubilee Luis Ferrer,
because they thought that maybe it would happen appoint another better
Doña Juana did so by substituting it with Don Fernando Ducos de Estrada.

This gentleman was that the ability he showed in the performance of their duties, which he recently
managed to eat and drank, they slept in their bed, which aseara and dress, and until they moved
from room, because his was not more than a foul dunghill. It was to strengthen their physical,
because with his usual finesse and manners, did this gentleman to go to Mass and attending
to various religious activities.

And his fits of madness were less consistent, so is that certain sections of sight the coffin
of her husband, a few days after being taken to Granada, and although it was great his exasperation
when he perceived, he finally D. Fernando Estrada Ducos reassurance.

But do not think that this came to be good at all, never reached this unhappy queen to regain
its lost cool. However, the Catholic king wrote to Estrada, giving the more affectionate and
repeated thanks for the service he had done to his daughter.

                    

At this time there was already one person who was not aware of the
disease Queen Juana, but nevertheless retained some hope of relief,
but rather the daughter desire of his subjects, that of possibility.

In the Cortes held in Valladolid in January 1518 decreed that if any Queen Juana time was in
a position to command the vast domains of Spain cease his governorship the Catholic King D.
Fernando, and that Joanna was the absolute sovereign.

CHAPTER IV.

The splits that were in Spain, and death of Doña Juana.

There was much dissension in Spain with several parties that began
to form a favor de Doña Juana, others to his son D. Charles, others
to his father, and some others who wanted to come to govern the Emperor
Maximilian I, his father, so I already Spain in 1520 fighting the
dying for their freedom. Supporters of Charles V raised in Castile
the banner of independence, and the chiefs of each other party to
give value flocked to his determination to Doña Juana. Cardinal Cisneros,
then regent and governor the kingdom, was the first appeal to the
queen decided to see if they could leave the hurried circumstances
in which the parties had placed to the provinces and particularly
to Valladolid.

How many were going to discuss such sensitive matters
with the queen, came out very unhappy not ever get a reply worthy
of placate the revolutionaries