 I have to do at home. "

While this mother and daughter talking in the living room and Ponte Obdulia chatted about that,
telling the girl who never forgive his brother that he brought the family a person so ordinary
and Juliana, who said diferiencia, parapet and other atrocities. There would never good friends.
By leaving, he kisses Juliana Obdulia, Frasquito and a handshake, offering to iron our shirts,
the current price, and turn their clothes, so same or less than what the tailor would take
cheaper. In addition, he also knew she cut for men, and if I wanted to try, encargárale a suit,
that would not less elegant fixed that you do portal cutters that he wore. All his clothes Antonio
it was her, and say whether the boy was wrong ... See! For him his uncle Boniface an American
who had been released to go to town (Glass Gallows) on the Ghost, and therefore there like
the garment, which it borrowed the mayor to cut another by it. Ponte thanked, skeptical, gallantly,
with regard to abilities of women for making men's clothes, and fired them at the door, helping
to load the various packages, and packages atadijos joyful carried.

XXXVII

Not wanting to be inferior to her sister Obdulia, or appear
at home with less authority and chulita Mangoneo that the intruder
told her mother that she could not manage decently with a servant
to all, and as Juliana won the cook, she imposed the maiden ... Well!

They talked for a while, the girl gave such reasons in support of the new official, who did
not Francisca choice but to recognize their need. Yes, yes: how they would proceed without maid?
To play such an important position, had already chosen a girl fine Obdulia educated in the
service of big houses, and that was free at the time, living with Browning family and the funeral
decorations. Daniela was called, was a beauty from the figure, and a portent of industrious
activity. Anyway, Doña Paca, so painting hoped that soon the girl was fine to recreate the service
had to pay.

At night was Hilaria, which opened Dona Francisca giving a message of Juliana, the which looked
more like an order.

He said his cousin who did not think the lady in doing more shopping and when noticing the
lack of something necessary, we will notify her that nobody knew how address gender and out good
and neat. Item: Mrs. to be reserved at least half the pension money to go play the countless items
of clothing and other objects they were in Peniscola, giving preference to papers with maturity
was the fall, and so in a few months could regain much anything helpful. Mrs. Held Paca warning
the happy Juliana, who was anticipating it, and offered to follow promptly, or rather obey.
As his head was so dizzy, the effect of the unprecedented events of those days, the absence
of Benin, and why not say so? the scent of flowers perfumed the house, had not gone through the lie
to review the reams of papers in several folders kept as gold cloth. But I would, yes ma'am, I would
... and if Julie wanted to charge a commission as annoying as the play, the better.