 I live a hundred leagues
from Persepolis, I say it has declared war, and I leave the point my family, and, as usual,
I will seek their fortune or death, because I have nothing to do. ? And your comrades, he said
Babuca, there are not more educated than you? No, 'said the officer, only our main Satraps
are those who know about it Fixo We cut their throats.

Introduxo Babuca was astonished with the generals, and hinted at its familiarity. At last he said
to one: The cause of the war twenty years has been plaguing Asia, comes originally a contest
of a eunuch in one of the wives of the great king of Persia, with an office the great king of
the Indies. We tried a right which was produced with a short difference triesimo Darice, and as both
the prime minister of India as the sustained with dignity nuestio the rights of their respective
love, ignited the minds, and went out to each side bell a million soldiers. Each year is necessary
to recruit these armies with four hundred thousand men. Grow deaths, fires, logging ruins,
suffering the universe, and follows the enemy. Our minister and the Indian protest very frequeencia
that moves them nothing but the happiness of the human lineage, and every protest a city is
destroyed, or ravage some provinces.

Having the other day spread the word that was going to make peace, gave the Indian general and
Persian battle all haste, which was bloody. Babuca saw all the errors and all the abominations
that were committed, and was witness to the machinations of the main satraps, who made quanto
was in his hand so that lost its general officers saw killed by his own troops, he saw soldiers
who had killed their comrades dying, by taking away some bloody rags, broken and covered in
filth, I enter the hospitals where the wounded had, perished almost all the inhuman neglect
of those who paid their weight in gold the king of Persia for relief. ? Are men these, exclaiming
Babuca, or are beasts? Ha, well I see that must be destroyed Persepolis.

Concerned with this idea way to the Indian camp, where, according to what he had predicted,
received him with much entertainment as that of the Persians, and which witnessed the same excesses
that had filled him with horror. Ha, ha, he said to himself, if he wants the angel Ituriel exterminate
the Persians, also have to exterminate the Indians the angel of the Indies. Having been informed
of quanto then more finely in both armies had happened, he knew actions magnanimous, generous
and humane, which astonished and enthralled him. Unexplained deaths, exclaimed,? as you can gather
so much elevation so clumsily and with so many virtues crime?

Declarose peace soon, and the leaders of both armies, which had only its interest actually shed
the blood of so many fellow beings, they went to seek his court award respectively, since none
had won the victory. Peace was celebrated in public writings announcing the kingdom of virtue
and happiness on earth. Thank God, he said Babuca; Persepolis will be the abode of the purest innocence,
and will not be destroyed, as they wanted damn those geniuses without further delay we see this
capital of Asia.

I reach this vast city by the old entrance, still mired in barbarism, and that inspired disgust
for his rough disarray. I felt all this portion of the time people who had built, that we must
confess, is qual regardless of the effort to exalt the former at
the expense of modern, that in all things the first tests are always
rough.

Then he put Babuca gentio a crowd of more pork quanto compound and more ugly both sexes can be
found, the qual entered all haste in a dark and gloomy room. The buzz continued, the movement felt,
and the money that some people in a dish casting, let him know I was in a public market, but when
he saw that many wives kneels, apparently looking at what they had in front, and indeed men aside,
I perceive that he was in a temple. Rough voices, Subalpine, out of tune and bargain they
made in the vault poorly articulated sounds resonate, like the voice of cerdudos animals in the
plains of La Mancha respond to curved and sharp instrument the flame. Tapabar ears, but then
had to cover his eyes and nostrils, when he saw entered into the temple a few uncouth with
shovels and hoes. They raised such a large stone threw a right hand and left hand land that gave
off a stench intolerable, put after a death in the hole they had made, and returned to lay the stone.
iCon burying these people, exclaimed Babuca, their dead in the same places where they worship
the divinity! icon that are paved with corpses their temples! I no longer fear the pestilential
ailments that afflict so frequeencia Persepolis, is capable of poisoning around the globe terraqueeo
rot so many dead and many live pressed together in one place. IHA, which is Persepolis dirty
people! Doubtless the angels want to destroy, to build another city more beautiful, and populated
with people more neat, and what better chant: Providence know what you do, do not get into take
his idea.

And the sun was approaching the middle of his career, and had Babuca to go to eat at the other
end Village, home of a lady who had given her husband a letter of recommendation that was an
officer in the army. He traveled thousands upon thousands of streets in Persepolis, saw other
temples well decorated, where more educated people attended, and where they heard a harmonica
music, repair public sources, although they made wonderful effect defective, was fresh and pleasant
Street trees, gardens, where we breathed the most delicious smells, and gathered Vian plants
of the most remote villages. Marveled to see magnificent bridges, as they were intended to
pass a stream without getting your feet wet wading is the four-fifths anus; step by wide streets
and magnificent, filled with palaces on either sidewalk, and entered Finally the lady's house with
a society of decent people waiting for him to eat. Was your home clean and well decorated, the
lady was a girl, beautiful, discreet and courteous, and society friendly, and it said Babuca one
another: no doubt he had lost the trial Ituriel angel, when wanted to destroy a city so fulfilled.
But very soon warned that the lady, who at first had asked him for his loving new husband, to
speak more lovingly food a boy wizard. Then he saw a judge before his own wife to a thousand
compliments to a widow, the qual with one hand clasped the neck of the magistrate, and gave the
other a young man very nice and modest. The first one up from the table was the wife of the
magistrate, is in a locked cabinet away to confer with his spiritual director, eloqueentisimo man, that
such power had to reason with her, he came back embarrassed face, wet eyes, his voice tremulous
and faltering steps.

Babuca then started to the apprehension of that was right Ituriel genius. With the dowry had
Granger confidence, he knew the secrets that very day the lady, will fio their qual affection
to the boy wizard, ensure that all houses would find the same Persepolis that had been hers.
Babuca inferred that such a society could not last, that all the houses were to be struck by
jealousy, revenge and feuds, which constantly had to shed tears and blood that inevitably had
to kill their husbands to processions their wives, or of being killed by them finally to very
well destroy Ituriel once an abandoned village to horrendous disorders.

After

eating was one of the most magnificent temples of the city, and sat in the middle a crowd of
both men and women who had gone there to kill time. Climbed a magician to a high machine and
pondered long about vice and virtue, and having divided in several parts so it was not necessary
to divide, test methods things clearer, taught what he knew everyone, no reason is exalted,
and came out sweating and breathless. Then people awoke, and believed that he had attended
an instruction. Babuca said: "This quanto good man has done has been for the hell of two or three
hundred citizens own, but his intention was good, and this is no reason to destroy Persepolis.

Brought
him, emerging from this gathering, to see a public holiday that was
celebrated every day of the year in a kind of basilica, whose inner
part via a palace.

Were so beautiful spectacle most beautiful women citizens of Persepolis, and the main Satraps
arranged in order, at first believed Babuca that came down to this party. In brief dexaron be seen
in the vestibule of the palace two or three people who looked like kings and queens; their language
was very different from the fashionable to the masses, and had rhythm, harmony and sublimity.
No one is sleeping, we all listened in silence high, and if interrupted him, was to give tests
of general admiration and affection, and with senses so alive and well spoken terms the obligations
of the kings, love of virtue, and the risks of the passions, that drew tears to Babuca: who no
doubt were the preachers of those rule heroes and heroines and those kings and queens who had
just heard, and even made purpose of persuading Ituriel that came to listen, some of which
show similar you reconcile with Persepolis forever.

After the party, wanted to visit the queen at the main palace was beautiful announced and unblemished
moral sublime.

Introduxeran had him at her majesty, and I took a bad ladder to the second floor, where am
in a room poorly adorned and furnished a poorly dressed woman, that noble and pathetic gesture,
he said: "My job gives me no to live, one of the princes who have seen has made me a child: I
am ready to be delivered: no I have money, and without money every birth is a miscarriage.
Darics Babuca gave him a hundred gold, saying: If there were worse things in the city, Ituriel
had little reason to be so angry.

Was there to spend the afternoon at the shops of merchants of magnificence superfluous. Brought
him an intelligent sugeto who had befriended him, bought what I find to their liking, and many
courtesies sold it much more expensive than it was worth. Quando had returned home, let him
see his friend that he had been swindled, and pointed Babuca memory in his book the name the
merchant, for the day of the punishment of the city not take Ituriel forgotten. While writing,
knocked on the door and entered the merchant who brought him to his pocket Babuca forsaken had
been forgotten on the counter. ? As possible, he said Babuca, so that you may be generous and
scrupulous, after having had face to sell your buxerias four much more than they're worth?
There throughout the city, he answered the merchant, merchant none something known, had not come
to bring the pocket, but I have said Quando I I sold in my store that have bought the quadruple
in value, you've been deceived, because I've sold ten times more than what it is worth, and this
is so true that if within one month you get rid of it you want, will not give or tithe, and
there is more thing however as to reason, because as the whim of men that gives value to these
trifles, that same feeds craving hundred workers who use me and my house gives me a good start,
a good car, and good horses. This craving is the one who gives life to the industry, and keeps
the fine taste circulation and abundance. The nations neighboring towns sell them much more expensive
than you the same trifles, and thus serve to benefit the empire. Paros thoughtful Babuca a, time,
and then delete it from his book.

Not knowing what to think of Persepolis, was determined to see wizards and writers, flattering
himself that such a pardon would reach all the rest of the people, because some apply to the
wisdom, and religion of others. The next morning was to visit a school for witches, and he
confessed that he was Archimandrite three hundred thousand crowns for having taken a vow of
poverty, and exercies a vast jurisdiction under another vote humility. That said, I leave to
Babuca in the hands of a magician's apprentice, so gave her.

Ensenabale that the beauties of this house of penance, when the voice spread who brought commission
for reform. Memorials given point each, that all essentially came to say Conservadnos us and remove
all others. If credit was their own apologies, all these congregations were necessary, if attended
to their mutual charges, all deserved to be destroyed. Babuca Pasmabase that there is none
that by building the universe, did not want to be the referee. Then a man Presentosele I was
semi-magician, qual said to him: The great work is going to comply, and has returned to Zerdust
earth: therefore I request that you ampareis against the Grand Lama. ? With that against the pontiff
monarch replied Babuca, which lies in Tibet? - against the same .--? For what? you make him
war, and alistais against an army? - not that, but says that man is free, and we do not believe: we
write against the tomes do not read, and we've heard hardly mind, because we just condemn, as an
owner who sends remove caterpillars from their garden. Babuca Asombrose the folly of men who
profess the wisdom, the tangle of that had renounced the world, lofty ambition and greed of those
who preached humility and disinterest, and gathered that left over good reasons to Ituriel
to destroy all this race.

He retired to his home, sent to buy her new books to calm his anger, and bade eat several writers
for recreation. Reached more than double what had been called as Wasps go to honey. They did not
ford these gorreros to speak and swallow, and praised two classes of men, the dead and their
own, but never to their peers, except the householder. If you said one is a saying acute baxaban
others eyes and bit his tongue feeling of not including the authors. Were less cautious than mages
because they aspired his ambition at such high objects, asking each servant's employment and
reputation of a great man. They began to insults in his face, that they contained sharp epigrams.
Habiaseles Translucent some of the commission of Babuca, and one voice descends beg him to exterminate
an author who had not given enough praise, another asked what the loss of a citizen who in his
plays never laughed, and another the extinction of the academy, because they never had been get
to be your guy. Finished eating, they went away all because in this whole bunch there was two that
might suffer, or talked more than in the homes of the rich than your table guests. Babuca believed
that very little was lost with all this Landre perish in the general destruction.

Just pulled away from them, began to read some books that had just been published, and warned
them the character of his guests. Indignaronle most of all the newsletters of slander, and files
in poor taste dictated by envy, hunger and stupidity, vile satires that respect and tear buytres
pigeons; novels lack of imagination, where thousand portraits are ideal sugetos their authors do
not know. Tyre fire these detestable writings, and came home that afternoon to go for walks.
A literary Presentaronle old man who had not been to increase the number of blobs. Dodging the crowd,
knew the men, wise use of them, and explained to sanity. Spake Babuca with feeling of quanto had
seen and read. Despicable things you have read, The lawyer told him sane, but at all times
and in every country is very common evil, and very rare good. You have been hosting at your
table to the stool of pedantry, because in all profession that is always presented with more chutzpah
is the least deserving out of the square. They live with each other, calmer and in retirement,
the truly wise, and still no shortage of books and authors are entitled to your attention. While
he was talking, I get another writer, and his arguments were so instructive and pleasant,
so far superior to concerns, and so in accordance with virtue, who confessed that he had never
heard Babuca such thing. Men are these, he said to himself, who will not dare to do evil angel
Ituriel, unless it is very ruthless.

No less anger kept the rest of the nation, since it had reconciled
with the literati.

You are a foreigner, he said to the wise man who spoke, and it will show of crowd abuse, while
you hide the well hidden, and that often these same abuses it. He knew then that there was among
many who were not writers envious and even among some who were virtuous wizards. Finally understood
that these large bodies clashes with its apparently preparing common ruin, were in fact beneficial
foundations; each association of wizards was a brake on his rivals, for if sometimes these differed
from opinion, all teach the same morals, who taught the people and subject to the laws, such Zelan the
preceptors that the children at home, while the master Zela them. Treatment many, and found
among them heavenly souls, and knew that among those same crazy they wanted to bring war to the Grand
Lama, had great men. I suspect they could after same thing Persepolis customs of their buildings,
which had seemed a worthy of pity, and others had overwhelmed in astonishment.

One day he said to the writer: Now I know that the Magi, which had been so dangerous, can be very
helpful, especially Quando a prudent government that hinders grange
Influx left:? but profits may result from the colossal wealth of the
contractors and agents of the Treasury?

That same day saw the opulence of these, which had so disgusted, sometimes produces much fruit,
because having the sovereign needed money, I find in one hour through him as through regular
channels in six months had not found, and conventional that these brown clouds, fed with the dew of
the earth, I returned in rain what they received them: besides that the children of these new men,
usually more well educated than those of the oldest families, worth more than these, because having
a father a good calculator does not remove a judge who is right, brave soldier, and skilled statesman.

Slowly
forgive Babuca greed of the settlement, which in reality is neither more nor less greedy than
the others, and is indispensable; apologized to dispel his madness flow for war, that war was
the source of many exploits, and forgave the jealousy of writers, among whom were sugetos illustrating
the world is reconciled with ambitious magicians and stagehands,
who gathered with small vices great virtues, since you were not unscrupulous,
especially on wooing the ladies, and the horrendous consequeencias
that inevitably had to produce, and filled him with horror and fright.

Wanting to examine all statements made to bring him home from a minister, and on the way would
see a woman shaking her husband murdered by his presence. I get to third base of the statesman,
and spent two hours waiting for Dixer he was there, and other two after they had said, by this
time very firm purpose to recommend the minister and his insolent anger of the angel concierges
Ituriel

.