 After a time reasonable,
he would say that was passing through a philosopher Pillars stranger, whom he had invited to give
a lecture at the Casino, and if he, Bellarmine, wanted to hear, since it was the only philosopher
of the town, which would place him in a room adjoining the hall, behind the curtains, where listen
without being seen. Of all these measures would be responsible Escobar, the Estudiantón, being with
whom Bellarmine showed greater confidence and esteem. No Bellarmine thought he could recognize
his own voice, because, actually, in that device still rudimentary, it is to distinguish clearly
between words, all the voices sounded with the same timbre ronquecino homogeneous.

When requested Estudiantón Bellarmine to expose your system, the shoemaker said with gentle
irony:

- What is a system? Maybe what you call system is not what I call system. I Thank God, I have
no system.

What you mean is abscess. Nor, thanks to God, I have abscess.

- Well, well, Bellarmine; confess I do not understand you yet. Therefore, precisely not satiate
me to hear him, and I hope that you give us a sort of abbreviated
or summary set their ideas.

If I do not understand, you understand, because it is bilingual and
knows what I ask.

Do you agree?

- I know what you ask, and I have no difficulty in accepting. But I need a week of meditation.

Performance
of the week, Bellarmine was made in the designated place. Said they had last not a week of meditation,
but many months of fasting, the noble, aquiline face, as gaunt, it was almost translucent, the
little body, so small and emaciated, barely hung over the ground.

He entered the room without flinching, without rocking a look of curiosity about; sat where he said,
bowed his head and spoke softly, without turning or change of tone;
completed and returned with the same serenity and imperturbable distraction
to his hovel.

They spent another two weeks.

As agreed, were two students, also members of the Casino, Bellarmine
invite if I wanted to hear, from a hideout, a philosopher of way.

-
Where is the philosopher? - Belarmino said.

- De Kenisberga - said
one of the students who was very brash.

- What is your name?

- Cleo
de Merode.

- And what is this?

- Go, then a philosopher.

All philosophers speak a particular language.

Bellarmine thought for a point. That philosophers speak a special language, I knew him, but he could
be in doubt if each philosopher spoke a different language, invented by himself, or if everyone
spoke the same.

If the latter, then the philosophers were obviously loved privileged,
who had reached the absolute truth by direct revelation.

- Draw a
crowd? - Belarmino said.

- Anda, and the most beautiful and elegant
ladies of Pilares.

- A philosopher beautiful and elegant ladies?

Well is it! - Bellarmine exclaimed, disappointed.

The student corrected awake in a jiffy:

- Whims of the Ladies .... Have heard: a philosopher, and have said,
as we shall see, will a freak.

- Ah, now!

- There is a small room
that communicates with the hall, where you can hear everything beautifully.

In this little room will be some people who do not like to mingle
with the public, for reasons worthy of respect, for example, Escobar,
the Alligator.

How is he going to sit with that beggar's clothes, next to the ladies? In short: you come
with us.

Belarmino, after learning that the philosopher would speak to women,
no longer had any interest to hear.

But he got carried away, with resigned indifference.

All the intrigue had been so skillfully developed, that Bellarmine, despite his shrewdness instinctive,
not suspected to be the victim of a hoax.

In the small room were about twenty people, the most conspicuous
of Bellarmine and antibelarminismo