 

The last to speak was the only one who came to the truth, confirming the news a little later three
in the afternoon, with lots of fanfare and unconnected words, the carter or water carrier Polanco.
Well known in the neighborhood, its appearance on Broad Street was greeted with a escopeteo grained
and cross-questions from window to window. Idle was that job, because he's motu proprio came
announcing the death of Tonda treacherous front of the shoe in the street Manrique corner at
the Maloja.

By Malanga, a prisoner in the prison service, had learned the nursing Tonda Dionisio Gamboa
and ran to turn it on with confidence and neglect that arise from the amount charged to recklessness.
Knocked on the door of the bakery by a man as well known as Tonda, failed Dionisio mistaking
his intentions, and of course, he formed his resolution.

Rose from the bench that worked, and walked with his hands behind his back, in a gesture of surrender.

The
forward motion of the fugitive determined by another opposed by the pursuer, which was fatal. Grande,
as mentioned, was the slope of the street, and was also arrested then the door of a flying
shoe alquilones blocking the road. To field, Tonda, and dismounted, fell short distance, neglect
him that was exploited in The moment the cunning cook, to splinter inside and open the belly
from side to side the same utility knife that was used for repairing the soles of shoes. Injured
and all the heroic Tonda, pursued the murderer, falling lifeless to just ride through honda
street.

The fact is historic in almost every detail.

     
      
      CHAPTER IV
      

         What you dream of love, and to suffer when it takes, and to fear when
it comes, and what to mourn if he leaves?

J. VELARDE

On a mild January morning Cecilia gave him a heart sank, and said
to himself: - Hey!

He comes today. And from that moment could not think of anything or do anything helpful. Times
infinite appeared before the gate of the window, believing that the wretched and hasten the
coming the object of his desire, and many others sank, faint of soul and body, in leaning swing
to the opposite headpiece.

Soon earned him become all ears and eyes. On the contrary, such was the obfuscation their senses,
hearing is not heard, not seen peering intently. This explains why spent a few seconds before
she did her lover's presence, filling the gap the front door ajar, a mirror which worshiped
his image.

Then forgotten full of his revengeful, the previous disdain of the
alleged wrongs received with their whims and their march to the field,
ran to meet him with open arms kissed him and let herself be kissed
by him in the delirium of passion.

No doubt, the fact of short absence had wrought a miracle to make
them close friends, in loving brothers in ternísimos lovers.

- Are
you alone? he asked her.

- Sola, "she said with languid expression.

-
Do I expect? added tenderly holding it still narrowed waist.

- With
the soul and life, "said the young man in his loving enthusiasm.

-
Who told you I was coming today?

- The heart!

He kissed her again in the eyes and mouth, and added:

- I am pale
and thinner than my departure for the field.

- Do you seem little
nights and days I've been without hitting the eyes watching over mommy?

There have also been other troubles ...

- When your grandmother got
sick?

- Since last year did not have health mamita.

But its gravity began to say that Christmas Eve.

When I arrived, at about two o'clock, the met flying a hot ... Did
not rise further.

- Where you've been up to that time, asked the
surprised young man.

- In a part.

- What part?

- Oh! In one part.

-
Will you tell me where?, He asked Leonardo becoming serious.
