 The old industry had disappeared. Segovia, famous for their cloths,
which occupied in the manufacture about forty thousand people, scarcely had fifteen thousand, and
so forgotten knitting wool, that when King Philip V wished to restore manufacturing workers
had to bring Germans.

- And Seville and Valencia, and Medina del Campo, famous for its fair and its industries - continued
Gabriel -. Sevilla, which in the fifteenth century had sixteen thousand silk looms, arrived
in the seventeenth to no more than sixty-five. It is true that, however, was his cathedral
clergy one hundred and seventeen canons and was sixty-eight convents with more than four thousand
monks and fourteen thousand priests in the diocese. What about Toledo? A late fifteenth century
employed fifty thousand workers in silk and wool and weapons workshops, and more tanners, silversmiths,
and jewelers glover. At the end of XVII was not only fifteen thousand inhabitants. All dead,
all ruined, twenty-five houses of illustrious families came to power the convents, there was no
richer in the city that the monks, the archbishop and the cathedral. Spain I was so anemic at the
end of Habsburg, which was about to be distributed among the powers Europe, like Poland, another
Catholic people as ours.

The discord among kings was the only thing that saved us.

If those days were so bad, Gabriel - said the Silver Stick - how the
Spanish showed much conformity?

Why did not pronouncements and insurgencies like this time of ruin?

- What they should do? The despotism of the two Caesars had imposed on the Spanish one blind obedience
to kings, as God's representatives. The clergy educated them on this belief, by the community of
interest between the Church and the Throne. Even the most illustrious poets corrupted the people,
extolling the monarchy servility in his plays. Calderon said that the farm and city life did not
belong to it, they were the king. In addition, religion filled him all, was the sole purpose
of existence, and Spanish, always thinking in the sky, had just get used to the miseries of
the earth. No doubt you that excessive religiosity ruined us and was coming to kill us as a
nation. Even now drag the consequences of this disease that has lasted for centuries .... To
save from death to this country, what was to do? Call abroad, and came the Bourbons. Look
here if you would come below, that neither military had. In this land, in the absence of other
merits, since the time Celtiberian we have always had a fighting warlords. Well, in the War of
Succession had to bring British and French generals and officers to, because there was no Spanish- knew
point a gun or send a company. There was no one to serve as minister, and foreign were all rulers
of Felipe V and Fernando VI, foreigners who came to restore industry losses, to break up the
abandoned lands, to set the old irrigation and establish colonies in the wilderness frequented by
wild beasts and bandits. Spain, which had colonized half the world in its own way, was himself
discovered and colonized by Europeans. The Spanish appeared to be poor Indians led by their chief Friar
rags and adorned with scapulars and miraculous relics. Anti-clericalism was the only remedy for such
ruin, and this spirit settlers came with foreigners. Philip V wished to abolish the Inquisition
and finish naval war with Muslim nations, which lasted a thousand years, depopulating the Mediterranean
coast with fear of the Barbary pirates and Turks. But the Indians revolted against all reform
of the settlers, and the first Bourbon had to withdraw, seeing a threat to their crown. Then, his
immediate successors, with more roots in the country, dared to continue his work. Carlos III,
to civilize Spain, only had to get their hands on the Church, limiting their privileges and income,
taking care of things on earth and forgetting the sky. It saw the same show that in our century,
when governments play ecclesiastical interests. The bishops protested, speaking on pastoral and letters
of "the persecution of the poor Church, looted their property, insulted and trampled on his
ministers in their immunities "; But the country woke up, enjoying the only prosperous period
known in modern times before the seizure. Europe was then ruled by philosopher kings and Carlos
III was one of them. The echo of the English Revolution still vibrated in the world. The monarchs
wanted to be loved, not feared, and almost all nations struggling with the brutalization of masses,
the progressive reforms of imposing order and nearly real strength. But the great evil of monarchy
is the legacy system, the power connected in a family. A man good sense and honest intentions
can engender a fool: after Carlos III reigned Carlos IV, and if this were not enough, the
year of that monarch die Revolution broke French, with their audacity, they went crazy and
all the kings of Europe. A Bourbon of Spain was their head to get it back no longer. Derailed,
got out of the way once again embracing the Church as the only salvation to the revolutionary
danger, and yet have not returned or will return to the good path. Jesuits, priests and bishops to
be the directors became palace, and still are now, as in the days when Charles II consulted plans
military and political ties with a board of theologians. We have minds that have had revolutions overthrown
the people, not ideas. Something we have advanced, but hopping timidly with disorderly retreats,
as you go with fear, and suddenly, at the slightest noise, runs away to the point of departure.
The transformation has been more internal than external. People still live with the soul of
the seventeenth century. She remains in fear, cowardice that inspired the inquisitorial bonfire.
The Spanish have marrow slave, his arrogance and energy are external. No wonder it is home to
three centuries of ecclesiastical bondage. Make revolutions, are able to rebel, but always stop at
the threshold of the Church, which was his lady by force and continues without it. No fear of
falling here: are you quiet, Don Antolin, and what, in justice, have many accounts that ask about
past. Is it because they are religious and at other times? You know not, and rightly complains
watching extinguished without the assistance popular, the old grandeur of the Church.

- That's right - said the Silver Stick -. There is no faith, no one is able to make a sacrifice
the house of God. Only in the hour of death, when the fear comes,
remember some to help with his fortune.

- No faith, that's the truth.

Spanish, after that she almost religious fever death occurred, lives in a domestic indifference,
not by scientific thinking, but thinking weak. Known to go to heaven or to hell think so because
they have taught, but is carried away by the stream of life without
any effort to choose one place or another.

It is the most practical man of religion and less thought about. Not sure or create. Agree
to be bound, living in an intellectual somnambulism. If you ever thought, revealed, suggests
a critical time for the stalls on fear. The inquisition yet living among us are not afraid
of fire, but because we fear the "what people say." Society parked refractory to all innovation
is the modern Inquisition. The clashing, coming out overall and monotonous vulgarity, it attracts
the wrath of the great mass deaf shocked and suffer the punishment. If he is poor, is subjected to the
test by cutting hunger means Life, if self-employed, you will burn in effigy, creating a vacuum
around it. Must be right, abide by the established, and hence, bound together by fear, does not
arise an original idea, there is no independent thought, and even wise to keep them the conclusions
they draw from the study, submitting in life to the same uses vulgar and concerns of fools.
While this continues, it is useless task of revolutionaries in this country. Apparently able
to change the face of the land but to sink the spade find stone forever and ever united and compact.
The national character, losing religious faith has not changed. Faith is dead, but is the body
with vital appearances, ranking same site, blocking the way with his mum hardness. They say revolutionary,
with his desire not out of tune, this simulation of life. Mimic the respect and tolerance the
winners from other countries, but not before learning the momentum disrespectful and stunned with
other people collapsed and kicked the past without mercy or scruple. Poor and cornered is the church,
Don Antolin, compared to what it was in earlier centuries, but not subject you to worsen their situation.
The tide reached its height and it will not there. While in this country people afraid to speak
his mind, and be shocked with a new idea, and afraid of what he said the neighbor, laugh of revolutions,
as however many do not explode you reach the water at the mouth.

Don Antolin laugh listening to this.

- But man, Gabrielillo, you must be crazy. These trips and these readings have upset you. At
first I was outraged, believing yourself to those who want a revolution to take away what
little we have left and proclaim the mort of the Republic, abolishing the church budget. But
I see you over there, with nothing you settle for, everything seems
bad ... and this makes me laugh.

Not a terrible enemy, because it strips too far.

I think as you walk out of your mind as chest .... But man, do you still look like little revolutions
we've had? And yet you think the country is as wild as in those centuries have painted your way
...? Well, I - the priest said with irony - I hear a lot of progress in the country, and I know there
are railways and around cities are filled with fireplaces, and even many wicked celebrate this, comparing
them to church steeples.

- Bah! - Gabriel said with a look of indifference -. Something about those developments. Revolutions
policies have put Spain into contact with Europe. The stream has taken this progressive country,
dragging and dragging the peoples of Asia and Oceania. Today nobody escapes it. But we go downstream,
inert and powerless, if we advance, is the current, not by our force,
while other people swim and swim stronger and away from the more.

How have we contributed to this progress? Where are our signs of life modern? The railroads, few and bad,
are the work of foreigners, and they owned their property, between the rails, the grass grows,
showing that the holy calm still of those carts and galleys times accelerated. The most important
industries, the metallurgy and mining, are also foreigners, or Spanish who are subject to them,
living by his protective mercy. The vegetable industry in the shadow of protectionism barbarian
urges gender, encouraging its flaws, and still can not find capital. The money is saved in the
fields in the form of treasure at the bottom of a jar, or engages to usury in populations, as
in past centuries. The boldest dare dedicate to the purchase of government securities, and
governments continue to waste, insurance you will always find those who pay them and praising
this loan as a manifestation prosperity of the country. In Spain two million hectares of uncultivated
land, twenty-six million a million rain-fed and irrigated only. This dry farming, which is to be all
our agriculture, is a call that makes the hunger Spanish apathy, a perpetual demonstration
of fanaticism, which relies on praying and in the sky rain advances in men. The rolling rivers
into the seas for about regions scorched, overflowing in the winter to fertilize, but to drag
in the mud momentum of the flood. There are new stone churches and conventions and not for dams
and reservoirs. Rise towers and cut trees, which attract rain. And I do not argue you Again, Antolin,
that the church is poor and has nothing to blame. The poor are you, Church's traditional tolerance,
the religion of the Spanish, in which is fashion and the faithful are going with the latest,
but there are the Jesuits, the manifestation modern Catholicism, the "latest addition", whose
Heart of Jesus and other idolatries French to build palaces and churches everywhere, diverting
money that was before on the cathedrals and being the only show of wealth. But back to our
progress. Worse even than the drought, agriculture is to our ignorance and routine village
farmer. All inventions and scientific application reject it, believing it wrong. "The were the good
old days. So grew my grandparents and so I must. "Ignorance is converted to national glory.
And there to wait for now the remedy. In other countries out of universities and colleges reformers,
fighters progress. Here only schools produce a proletariat eager coat living, which assails the
professions and public office without any other desire than to break through and this situation
to continue. Addressed (if at school) for a few years, not for knowledge but to acquire a diploma,
a piece of paper that authorizes earn bread. You learn what the professor recites without any
curiosity to go beyond. Teachers are mostly doctors and lawyers who pursue their career, are one
hour every day sit in the chair, like a phonograph repeating what they said in previous years,
and become immediately to their patients and their arguments, without knowing what is written
and said by the world after they won their job. Spanish culture is second hand, purely outside, "translated
from French," and even that for the small minority that reads, because the rest so-called intellectuals
have no library studying texts of boys and hear the progress of European thought ... the newspapers.
The Parents, eager to secure as soon as the future of their children through a career send
them to schools can barely speak. The student-man in other countries in all the fullness of
his reason, does not exist here. The universities are filled with children, in institutes are
only shorts. The Spanish, shaving for the first time, is already licensed and go to doctor.
The nurse will end up sitting next to the professor.