 This would explain better what without being implausible, bordering on impossible, that
Ignacio happens something very similar to what happens in the beautiful tenor Fernando Opera
entitled La Favorita. Ignacio, no less simpleton, sleepwalking and distracted, but also not
less jealous of his honor that the terms to which we refer, is married to Eulalia, without
to find out what had happened. And here, far from diminishing difficulties you the grows and
multiplies, in my opinion unnecessarily. Suffice it known by all Madrid society the slip or
slips of Eulalia with a married man. Why assume Eulalia also kept closely to that man wearing?
Would not it have been wiser, and that the novelist can make as he pleases, or Eulalia have not
reached such items, or that natural and quietly has released before making your wedding?

Well, no sir, you insist that the business is rarer and more difficult to explain, and you
have the wedding take place to escape so that there occurs the phenomenon of emergence of
a perfect human being, much less premature.

In view of what is happening and you are telling, not a few people accuse you of leftover pessimistic
and painting with the darkest colors immorality and vices of the
high society to which it belongs.

What is I am far to see you so bad intention. And I do not understand it either bad result, although
the intention is good.

The truth is, though very sad truth that the noblest and the purest virtues moral excellence, can
not give clear evidence of itself is neither good nor manifest glow, if the vices, sins and evils
are not the occasion or cause for it. Virtue, let us say well, it's like a cocoon that would never
be perfect flower calyx opening, unfolding petals and perfume the air with their aroma, if vice
inadvertently and contradiction not intervene in the matter. Would it have been martyrs if
there had been ruthless and ferocious tyrants who put themselves
in the alternative to deny his God and to worship idols or be devoured
by wild beasts, flayed or burned alive or subject to other exquisite
very cruel torture