 

I.

There was, in very remote times in which we live is a powerful
king, loved to end their subjects, and possessed of a fertile, extensive
and populous kingdom in the regions beyond East.

King had this immense treasure, and gave lavish parties. Attended at his court the gentler
and more discreet ladies and brave knights who then had in the world. His army was large and
tough. Their ships traveled the ocean as if in triumph. Parks and gardens, where I used to hunt
and loose, were wonderful in its grandeur and lushness, and the copy of vermin and birds that
ate them and lived.

But what of their palaces and what was locked in his palaces, whose
magnificence exceeds any weight?

There delicious furniture, thrones of gold and silver, and tableware porcelain, which was less
common then than now; there dwarves, jigantes, jesters and other monsters for the leisure and
entertainment SM cooks and bakers there deep and prominent, which took care of their bodily food, and
there no less profound and eminent philosophers, poets and lawyers, who tended to give grass
to his spirit, who attended his privy council, who chose the most difficult questions of law,
which sharpened and exercised the ingenuity with and logogriphs charades and singing the glories
of the dynasty in colossal epics.

The subjects of this King rightly called him Fortunate. Everything went from good to better for
his reign. His life had been a fabric of happiness, whose brilliance marred only dark shadow
of pain with the early death of Mrs King, a very full and beautiful SM who had loved with all
his heart. Imagine, reader, what the cry, and more having been him, by the same love he had unblemished,
innocent cause of his death.

Tell the stories of that country that the King had seven years of marriage without achieving
succession, but vehemently desired, when a war occurred in the neighboring country. The King departed
with his troops, but before he took leave of the Queen with great affection. This, giving him a hug,
he whispered: - Do not tell anyone to not laugh if my hopes not achieved,
but I think I'm on tape.

The joy of the King with this new no bounds, and as everything goes well when you're happy,
he triumphed over his enemies in war, killed by his own hand to three
or four kings had made him do not know what trick, devastated cities,
made captive, and returned loaded loot and glory to the beautiful
capital of its monarchy.

This had happened in a few months, and thus to cross the King with great pomp in the city,
between the cheers and applause from the crowd and the clatter of
bells, Queen was giving birth, and bore with happiness and ease, despite
the noise and agitation, but were primiparous.

What would have appalling taste as SM when, on entering the royal chamber, the midwife more
the kingdom was introduced to a beautiful princess who was just born!

The King kissed her daughter and went full of joy, love and satisfaction, the room of Mrs.
Queen I was in bed so red, so fresh and pretty as a rose in May.

- My Wife! - Said the King, and his arms. But the King was so strong and it was so lively the
outpouring of affection, that without more or less accidentally drowned the Queen. So were the
screams, despair and call themselves animal itself, other eloquent samples of painful feeling.
But not so raised the Queen, who, though dead, was divine. A smile of ineffable joy would still
be hovering over his lips.

For They undoubtedly had flown the soul wrapped in a sigh of love and proud to have able to inspire
affection enough to produce that embrace. What a woman truly in love not envy the fate of
this Queen!

The King tried the much love he had, not only her life but after his
death.

Took a vow of perpetual chastity and widowhood, and who fulfilled. He ordered the poets compose
a funeral wreath, which still say it is in that realm as the most
precious jewel national literature. The court was three years of mourning.
The mausoleum which was built to Only later became the Queen of Caria
a paltry imitation.

But since, as the saying goes, no matter if it
lasts a hundred years, the king, after a couple of them, shook his
melancholy, and felt so fortunate or more fortunate than before