 Is the beautiful light that reverberates on the horizon is more
than a vibration of matter? That bird that cleaves the air and plunges into the water catch
and devour a hapless fish, what mystery stored inside your body? How do I treat I am nothing
more than an individual expression of the force that animates all beings Universe?

But when these thoughts, always horrible, I squeezed as the strings of a colt made it irresistible
when he was rushing to time exercise any function of their sacred ministry. If we celebrate
the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass or give absolution crossed a penitent spirit of these dark
thoughts, I felt the same impression if you gripped the brain with a hot iron, he assaulted a
heartbreak that left him paralyzed. I thought dying. I longed to get rid of that ordeal.

One day he was told to bring Viaticum to a village near the town. As needed some time walking
across the fields, was no bell and summon the faithful. Left alone with the clerk, the body bag
slung over her neck and the Sacred. The road stretches clung to the edge of the sea. As always
fascinated by the immensity of ocean, distracted his attention from the ineffable mystery that
wore on his chest, stopped stammer prayers and gave his thoughts to the same meditations that night
and day was upon him long time. The sun's rays scattered on the glass of water compelled him
to action considered supreme, omnipotent in this star on Earth life. It is he who has created
the observer, who renewed. The flower owes its perfume, its fierce agility and bloodthirsty
instinct, our sweetest soul impressions or terrible. The Sun is the father of all, love and
hate. Then considered that life is more than a immense dynamism within which transform the
formidable forces of physics and chemistry. All beings on earth, humans, animals, plants, are
closely linked. Life of these is a single, universal life and this is not nothing but a constant change
materials. A universal movement drags the atoms, as the worlds. Thousand ripples intersect in
the atmosphere, a thousand forces combine, heat and light, the affinity and magnetism join
the mysteries of the vegetable and mineral. All beings are made of the same molecules, which pass
successively and regardless of each other, so nothing property belongs to them. Our body is
renewed so that after a certain time and we have not an ounce of body material that we had before.
This renewal movement operating in each of the animals in each of the plants. The millions who
inhabit the surface of the globe live in mutual exchange of organisms. The oxygen molecule now
breathed breath was yesterday one of the trees lining the road. The molecule carbon burning in one
of these piles of dried leaves used to fertilize the soil, may have burned yesterday in the
lungs of a hero. Perhaps one of those oyster shells lying attached to these rocks to hide the
match that was most precious fibers the brain of Jesus Christ ...

He felt within himself something that tears and falls. I had completely forgotten that led
him the divine body of the Redeemer. It seemed a thing so strange, so out of touch eternal saw
and touched, she imagined must be dreaming.

And without knowing what his dark hole be coming, we undertook a fierce desire, wicked, laugh.
What comedy was it? A little flour mixed and toast yesterday's housekeeper D. Miguel was transformed
if by magic in the person of Jesus Christ, a being who disappeared from among the living does
nineteen centuries. "These sovereign laws, sublime nature, be raped because few insects in
this microscopic world council meeting in the decree? Separated eyes from the sea and set
in the sexton, who ran before whistling to his dog, which escaped after some chickens. What
reverence of the man, leading his side to God of heaven, the Creator of all things! And the laughter
rose from the chest when with more energy, reaching to the throat, he played on his lips, was
about to explode. A tremor caused him to miss teeth chattering, and he felt his forehead bathed
in a cold sweat, is troubled him suddenly in sight, and fell unconscious. When he recovered,
was sexton's arms and two or three peasants who roamed around. She had bathed her face with
cold water, opened his robe and removed his collar. One of them threw smoke cigar nose. The
body bag with the body lying on the divine Redeemer the boundary wall of a meadow. Fr Gil was
quick to pick her up, slung it back to the neck, and after a moment to pray on his knees, and
went on without removing your eyes from the ground.

IX

Her confessor, until he withdrew the licenses had been D. Miguel.
Mutually confessed, as happens among the clergy.

With whom he was first informed his doubts.

The old leader was more surprised than shocked them. Thing seemed as insubstantial not worth much
time fixing the attention. The dogmas were to him as physical laws of gravity, the inscrutability,
etc. We were relying on them without thinking its existence. All the moving drama of passion
and death of Jesus looked at the pastor of rocks in the background as a kind of romanticism
that serves as accompaniment required to the true religion. This was the Mass, the responses,
the prayer of the day, the rosary, Abstinence from meat on days of wakefulness, especially
in parochial rights, maybe judged simultaneous with the act of creation. There he stood, then,
to analyze and dispel the doubts of his excuse. "Go ahead .-- .-- Ignore Patarata! - Be be .--
Another hit you! - How not had to rise the third day, fool? Can not you see what says San
Juan and San Mateo and San Marcos? "These were the consolations usually lavished on him.

Our priest was sad at times with them, but others are comforted thinking should not be so condemned
and cursed when D. Miguel took the terrible doubt so calm. When he
withdrew the licenses had no choice but to seek another confessor.

Convinced of the hostility with which he watched D. Narciso, D. Melchior and D. Joaquin declined
with any of them vent their conscience, but knew that the tribunal of Penance have nothing to do
likes and dislikes. He went to a young chaplain, more he still young, fresh from the seminary.
He was the son of a carpenter in the village, so timid and shrunken who could barely say hello,
happy to be elevated above its former condition, pay an unlimited respect for all the grandeur of heaven
and all the little things land. This was vividly impressed with the confession of P. Gil,
and of course tried to convince him that everything came from the devil and that there was
no other choice but to put the cross and be good subjects, to pray and fast a lot. In a spirit
of humility and obedience, the toilet did as his confessor he sent secretly persuaded, without
But that would not advance anything. Even before the media had tried, without success. Doubts
were tormenting him, offered him more and more cruel, more imposing. The timid chaplain spent
a little bitter every time I confessed, shivering and bewildered as if calamity befalls him, both
suffering and such fears assailed him, who knows what, little by little was apologizing to
hear him in confession and concluded by refusing at all.

Then he thought of going to see D. Restituto, pastor of one of the villages Peñascosa immediate,
man walking between his companions advised, prudent and bookish. Was said I had a great library
and that in his youth had done most brilliant exercises Lancia one
of the perks of the cathedral, and that did not receive one because
the bishop had reserved for a nephew.

Don Restituto, hurt by the injustice he had retired to rural parish, and never wanted to leave him to
try new contest. If continued toward the study of theology or she paid in the slight he had received,
it is not known with certainty. He liked, yes, when a party or funeral he met with his companions,
show scholarship and to exceed in wit and subtlety to defend any proposition, but the priests of
the parishes immediate all were moralists, that is, none had studied theology can race more than
him. Few thank the landslide in disputes desktop. Moreover, D. Restituto farm was so far and
was so interested in it, I should not have much time or humor, either, to deepen the dogmatic or
the Patrologia.

Our anguished priest came one evening after dinner, and directed his steps towards the village
where dwelt the theologian. I knew a lot, but not dealt with privacy. Was remote village half
a league. The road was varied and picturesque with narrow streets high hedges of bramble, pieces
of wood, vereditas between the cornfields and trails through meadows.

At the entrance to a gorge, on a plain of corn and taking back some grassland delicious, was
seated the main village of the parish. The church and rectory were a good distance away, in a narrow
dark and wet. All slept in silence most complete when the young priest arrived. Chickens pecked
in the street in front of the house, a Manx cat was washing his face sitting on the boundary
wall of the garden, and a mastiff earless slept face down on the table in the house nearby barn.
The mastiff was responsible for breaking the peace of that place, rising angrily against the upstart,
barking with a hoarse shout, off, witness his decrepitude. Fr Gil stood still, and began to say
sweet tone and persuasive

- Take, take! Quis, quis!

That if you want! The mastiff, watching the newcomer shrink, it grew horribly. Wow, Wow! he shouted,
looking fierce and menacing record he could find in his chest.

At the same time extermination riveting look at the priest and went,
though cautious, to him.

That, terrified by those wild barking, swam three or four steps back and spread the arm with the
umbrella, which brought to remove the sun, forward. "Umbrellas! The appeal of cowards, "he must
have thought the mastiff. And so bristled at this outrage, which I had not had a good cleric not
to leave the door an old screaming:

- Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Here, Cuckoo! Outside, Cuckoo! Damn dog! Here! ... Here! Come here!

The dog hesitated for a moment, stopped barking and was quite clearly
the decision to become back to sleep as if nothing had happened, but
the old woman was satisfied; required an act of submission.

- Here,
Cuckoo!

Here, now!

El Cuco humbly bowed his head toward her and began a slow, excruciating,
as if the path was fraught with danger.

- Here!

Come here!

"I is you, awful!"

Is said the dog, who did not effect the pomps and vanities.

And he advanced with even greater caution, lock the hoof at each step he took, shook the tail of a
rapid mode.

- Here! Here! - Was shouting the old.

Finally, at a maximum speed of six steps per minute, arrived at their destination Cuco. The old
caught him by the left ear and gave him three or four pulls hard. The dog a howl of pain.
Then he took the other, and many other tugs. More and more still sad howl. Fulfilled his duties
with the law of the land, shrank mastiff back to the table in the barn, but not releasing it under
some curses and blasphemies. This scene was repeated a few times a day, provided that any person
suspected as now arrived for purposes hostile to the rectory. El Cuco deplored in their hearts
that had not shaved best ears.

- Afternoon, D. Gil - said the old, angry expression suddenly changing
the other smiling melosísima, showing who knew him.

Fr Gil, who was not happening as much, answered very politely and
asked D. Restituto.

- The priest must be toward the barn.

Come in, D. Gil. I'll call him.

- No need: I will fetch it myself. "The barn is here? ...

- Yes, sir, here behind the house.

He turned it all the priest, went a few steps in a dirty alley, and found a miserable factory made
of uncut stones from the river only, with a rickety door. It was locked, and nobody was there before.
Going to leave that place and come back to home behind the barn when he heard the sound of
voices. He went thither, and found, in fact, Don Restituto, not a little surprised the suit and
the situation in which he appeared.

The old priest was wearing corduroy trousers wide, patched, as they spend the peasants through the
land, wore on her feet clogs with socks of coarse cloth, shiny coat through use, and spinning
linen shirt he loves, without collar or anything like it. Was the costume of a peasant, without
removing it or put anything. But what really made pilgrim and outlandish attire is that the old
head and wore a greasy cap.

Fr Gil was shocked by that figure, and more astonished, when he warned
the occupation that the pastor was delivered.

I was, kneeling on one knee on the ground, skinning a calf. He helped in the operation servant.
The animal had spread between the two, most raw it now. He turned his head D. Restituto steps, feeling,
and being with young fellow stood up and came toward him with bloody
hands clutching a huge knife.

- What miracle is this, man?

The future priest Peñascosa deigns to visit us!

... Look, do not shake hands, because you see how I have it.

Good health, right? ... Not here no novelty.

D. Restituto was you, familiar to all young clerics he from first interview. When Gil had explained
the reason for his trip, showed some surprise, but was quick to respond:

- Well, well. I will close immediately. Go home, and wait.

But the young man expressed a desire to go to church.

- To the church? - Said in surprise. Among them was customary confession at home .-- All right.
No problem. Calls to love the key, and wait there. It will not take.

Would to God that had taken more! And above all, would have had time pluguiérale to wash. For the
theologian dismissed him a whiff of cutting down slaughterhouse. While confession lasted, and lasted
a long time, Fr Gil could hardly think of anything else. He felt suffocated for that foul smell;
acudíanle some worries and sweats that were about several to deprive of sense sometimes. Don
Restituto felt great satisfaction in order to get shine your old battery theological propositions.
Each question his troubled penitent offered him, he answered triumphantly with a Latin text.
As the veteran off-hook with joy their weapons to the signal of war, the old opponent of the
Lancia picked lectoralía of memory texts already Perronne rusty and
Balmes.

How can one doubt of immortality the soul, when it is something simple, and simple things
can not be broken? Who dare to imagine that the Catholic Church may someday die, when there
bleeding Christ's words: "The gates of hell shall not prevail (non pr?valebunt?)" How be given
more credence to the word of men than of God? What! Divine Wisdom has said: "For this I was
born and for this I came into the world, to testify to the truth? "And this testimony is not
is clear and well illustrated in the works visible exceed the natural power, for example, in
healing the sick, the resurrection of the dead and other wonderful miracles performed by Our
Lord Jesus Christ and the Apostles?

Fr Gil received absolution, promising not to be insane or an idiot, so don judged Restituto who
doubted the truths revealed by angelic ministry. Shortly after kissing the hand not well purged
from the blood of the bullock, and when he had risen to praying before an altar of repentance,
our priest fell ill. Had to leave immediately from the church, seized with violent nausea. On
the back porch all food. The priest brought him home, and tried to cure him with a cup of sage,
the supreme remedy used against all the ailments that afflict mankind, but his young companion,
I knew what to expect about your condition, obstinately refused all medication. The pastor then
went on to show the garden, in which encryption was so proud and in depth of theological knowledge.
It was full of fruit trees and vegetables. There was not a flower or ornamental shrub. From
there they went to a vast lawn, where he had a few raising operators wall. D. Restituto began
giving instructions, adopted a number of things failed other, forgetting
all about his guest.

One of the workers took him to the mill had stopped because the son of Cosimo had deviated above
the water to dry the bed of the creek and catch eels. D. Restituto was furious and announced plans
Cosme to sue and ask for damages and losses. Of it is not mocked; was determined to make his
property was respected. From there he ran into the cornfields, and the pastor was a fellow with
extreme joy the great state of plants. The water had come just in time, but most of the water
was due to the large quantity of fertilizer had missed.

- You say: where you can make D. Restituto much manure to a land like this, fifteen days of oxen? I'll
tell you. I, though I have nine heads of cattle, could not pay even
half of the land that I have.

Here's intelectus! In every parish, as you You know, there are a lot of wretches, to whom it is
not possible for them out one quarter or baptisms or marriage or anything. However, these
calamities forced them living to take from time to time outside their
homes (commonly pens) a good amount of dry leaf or gorse.

With water and the passage of pedestrians and cattle manure is crossing becomes after some
time pass. When it is well rotted and I'll bring me forming lot until the time comes to distribute
the land. What?

From there they jumped to an inheritance of meadow. D. Restituto, as it was, let out a sharp, mocking
laugh, he did raise his head to his young companion and look at him curiosity.

- This is the meadow below the mill ... the meadow below the mill, you already know ... How?
Do not you know the history of this field? Well, much has run the town ... Belonged to the meek
of the parish, and had been trasconejado when selling them. I had, and nobody in the parish
dared to denounce him. But here was a rich landlord called Lino (already busted, thank God,
last year), and that he was eager Lino the meadow. At the end gave the breath in the administration,
keeping the hand, not wanting to be wrong with me, and brought it to auction. Two days before done,
came here the very hypocritical and I said, 'Father, I do stand in the meadow below the mill,
but if you I want to stay home. "The rascal probe for the amount I planned to offer. "No, I do
not want, you can top it when you like," I replied. The man, seeing that I went to auction, and knowing
that any neighbor was in a position to throw, they were promised very happy. Lancia Y sent to his
cousin.

But this road trip we went to of rocks, and spoke highly relevant, represents sin incurred goods
topping of the Church, I promised him rent the pasture and put him forty dollars in hand.
What was the man do? It was a Lancia, finished him off and handed it to me to me in the next
breath ... What a laugh that was assembled in the town, buddy!

Lino ill with rabies, and as was presented occasion that was after two months, coming from a
pilgrimage, he stuck a knife to his cousin ... But, go, good rooms that cost him so puñaladita!
He did not do ten thousand.

As the sun went down, after having taught a winery, he had built for
cider, D. Restituto led back to his penitent home and invited him
to chocolate.

But the toilet was still not good. Also in a hurry. Refused all treat and started Peñascosa
way. The priest accompanied him some distance.

Out and understanding
their properties and the continent reflective Peñascosa toilets that
his heart was seized with serious thoughts, D. Restituto wanted to
return to the load though he seemed well established that all doubts
of his companion were only that pumps soap, which breaks with a blow
anyone who has even hailed Sacred Theology.

- You look out, dear
- he said with unlimited protection, - the truths of faith are contrary
to reason, but above it