 Not had a packing list that burst in curses against the decline
of the wines of Jerez.

- You have not reached the proper time, Ferminillo - continued, - why take things so composure.
You are from the modern, who believe that things are going well because we sell cognac much as any
house of foreign countries, whose vineyards produce only crap, God grant without the slightest
semblance to Jerez ... Tell me, you who have run world, where have you seen our Palomino grape,
nor of vintages, or the battery Mantua, or the Cañocaso, neither canine nor the Pedro Ximenez?
... What have you to see! It is only breeding earth is a gift from God ... and, as rich, cognac
or wine manufacture of imitation because Jerez, Jerez true is no longer fashionable, say these gentlemen
from abroad! Here are just warehouses. These are liquor stores, drugstores, anything but what
they were in another time and come on, that makes me want to fly away never to return, when you
present with these confetti, asking me to do another fake.

The old man heard indignant responses Fermín.

- These are requirements of modern commerce, Mr Vincent, have changed business and pleasure the
public.

- Well, do not drink, porra!, Leave us alone, without requiring them to dress our wines, will keep
them safely stored for they age, and I am sure someday we will look for justice coming to its
knees ... This has changed a lot. The England must be lost. No need to tell me, too I see it
getting here visits. Before British came under the winery, but the passengers were people of distinction:
Lords and Lords, the lowest. Gave glory to see how air apimplaban lordship. Cup from here,
to place an order! Cup there to compare!, And so went to the winery, serious as priests, until
the output had to lie on the buggy to take them to the inn. Know and do justice to taste good
... Now, when playing in Cadiz boat English, arrive in droves, with a guide at the front, prove
anything because there is free and, if buy something, they are content with bottles of three
pesetas. Do not know drunk with nobility: shouting, arm brawl and go staggering down the street to
the lads laugh. I thought before all the English were rich, and it turns out this gang are
traveling in any thing, cobblers or London shopkeepers to take the
air out the savings of the year ... So leave the business.

Montenegro smiled listening to incoherent lamentations of the old.

- Furthermore - continued the grocer - in England, as here, the customs are lost old. Many English people
do not drink more than water, and, as I have said, it is not elegant after eating, the ladies
are going to talk to a room, while men remain drinking up the servants to take the trouble to remove
them from under the table. They no longer need evening as a nightcap, a couple of bottles of
sherry that cost a bunch shillings. Those who still get drunk to prove they are gentlemen, they
use what they call long drinks - is not this, you who have been there? - crap that cost little and
allow drinking and drinking before apimplarse, the wischy with soda and other disgusting concoctions.
Ordinariness dominates. Xerrrez as no longer ask when they come here and find it for free. The
only Jerez we appreciate the land, will soon just buy us. They drunk with cheap stuff, and
so leave their affairs. In the Transvaal almost burst. The best day I pasted into the sea with
all its handsomeness. Decay: no longer are the same those times when the house was a warehouse
Dupont little bigger than a shack, but sent their bottles to your
cellar and Mr. Pitt, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Velintón and other gentlemen
whose names appear on the sills oldest large winery.

Montenegro was still laughing when he heard these laments.

- Laugh, boy, laughing. You are all the same: they have known good and you wonder the I find that
bad old today. You know how they paid before the boot of thirty a arrobas? Well, was worth 230
pesos, and has now sold in some years to 21 pesos. Ask your father, but less old than I, also
called the golden era. The money flowed in Jerez as well as the air. There were planters who
used and lived calanes in a shack on the outskirts and poor, lit by a lamp, but to pay a bill
threw a bag they had under the pine nightstand like a sack of potatoes, Nah, you take and ounces!
Workers in the vineyards charged thirty to forty real wages, and allowed the fantasy of going
to the block in surrey and patent leather shoes. Nothing newspapers, or harangues, or rallies.
Wherever people gathered sounding guitar, streak released each and every ram that God is shaking
like meat ... If Fernando Salvatierra had appeared then, your father's crony, with all these
things poor and rich, land deals and rivoluciones, we have offered a reed and had said: "Sit
your honor on the floor, comrade, drink, sing, take a dance with if this young lady like and
do not mind bad blood in our lives, which is not of the worst "... But the British soon as
we drink, the money comes less frequently in Jerez, and thereby hidden condemned that nobody sees.
Workers in the vineyards and have won ten real face of vinegar. In case you have to trim with
a knife or scissors, kill each other, there Mano Negra and the square of the prison were given
stick to men what had not been seen in many years Jerez. The laborer just click like a hedgehog
spoken to, and love is worse than before. You do not see the gentlemen alternating with the
poor in the vintage, dancing and flirting with girls as a young farmhand. Guard runs the civil
field and in the times we went bandits on the roads ... And everything what, sir? As I say,
because the English are fond of fucking and whischy ignore the good wood cutting, or palm,
or any other of the excellence of this blessed land ... What I say money, money come, come back
here, as in other times, pounds, guineas and shillings and no more strikes, and sermons Salvatierra
and his supporters, and the evil acts of civilians, and all the misery and shame that we now
see! ...

The bottom of the hold out a cry calling Mr. Vicente. He was a doubter cast aside with the white
numbers drawn in front of a boot and asked for clarification the storekeeper.

- I, son! - Shouted the old man .-- Beware of mistakes in medicine!

...

And he added to Montenegro:

- Let that slip of paper in the darkroom and I hope that you drop your hands before you get
me more recipes, as if I were a chemist.

The old man walked with slow step and swaying to the bottom of the
cellar, and Montenegro came it through the cooperage shop before returning
to the desktop.

It was a large yard with sheds, under which striking coopers worked
with their decks rings that held the wood.

The casks to medium build, with only top secured by iron hoops, opened their staves over a fire
of chips that warmed, bending to facilitate closure.

Home business forced it to a ceaseless production workshop.

Hundreds of barrels out of it every week to be shipped in Cadiz,
spreading wines Dupont worldwide.

On one side of the courtyard stood a tower formed with staves. At the top of the fragile edifice
two students were picking up throwing them from below, mixing, adding new height to the fragile
construction that exceeded the roof and threatened to collapse, swaying at the slightest movement
as a house of cards.

The head of the cooperage, a stocky, good-natured smile, approached Montenegro.

- How is Don Fernando? ...

Felt by the agitator great respect from his days as a laborer.

Protection Dupont and ductility that folded all his hobbies, he had raised. But as compensation
to the servility that had become the head of the workshop, had a secret affection for the
revolutionary and their associates at the time of misery. Thoroughly learned how he had gone
the presidio Salvatierra and their future life plans.

- I'll go
see him when he can - he said, lowering his voice, - the master does
not find out ... Yesterday we had big party at the church of the Jesuits
and by the afternoon I went with my girls to visit Mrs. ... I know
that you passed the day.

I have said here at the winery.

With the fear of a server that is afraid to lose fat enough welfare, gave advice to the young.
Ojo, Ferminillo! The house was full of informers. When he was aware, would not be Don Pablo surprising
news that had already had visited Montenegro Salvatierra.

And as if afraid to talk too and someone watching him, took his leave hurriedly Fermin, returning
to the side of the workers who beat the drums. Montenegro continued Later, entering the main
cellar of the house, where they kept the old sills aged and aged wines.

It was like a cathedral, but a white cathedral, crisp, bright, with its five naves separated columns
of three rows of simple capital. Agrandábase the footsteps same in a temple. The vaults thundered
with the sound of voices repeating widened by the echo. The walls were torn by the white glass
windows and two gable there were two large rosettes, also white, one of which penetrated the
sun, moving light beam in the restive iridescent dust molecules.

Along the colonnades alineábase in swaths of wealth of the house, the triple row lying barrels,
which were in their faces the figure for the year of harvest.

There were barrels venerable covered with cobwebs and dust, so wet the wood, which seemed close
to undone. They were the patriarchs of the cellar: they were baptized with the names of heroes
who enjoyed worldwide fame when they were born. A barrel is called Napoleon, another Nelson;
had adorned with the royal crown of England, because they had drunk monarchs of Great Britain.
An ancient oak, completely isolated, as if the friction with others could be gutted, exhibited
the venerable name of Noah. It was the most senior the house dated from the mid eighteenth century
and the first of the Dupont had acquired and as a relic. Near it were ranged other barrels they
did under the shield Spain's real names of all the monarchs and infants
who had visited Jerez in course of the century.

The rest of the hold filled samples of all crops, from the first years of the century. A single
barrel spreading a pungent perfume, which, as I said Montenegro, "filled mouth water. " He
was a famous vinegar, one hundred and thirty years old.

And the smell uníanse dry and pungent sweet perfume of sweet wines, and soft leather, the dry.
The alcoholic vapor transpired oak barrels and the smell of the drops spilled on the ground
for the transfer, permeated with the scent of the quiet gentle madness
atmosphere of the cellar, white, like an ice palace, trembling under
the caress of inflamed by the sun glasses.

Fermin went through, and was already out of it when he heard his name called from the bottom.
Experienced a shock to know the voice. Was 'the master', who accompanied some outsiders. With
him was his cousin Luis, a Dupont was lower only in some years to Don Pablo, respected him
as head of the family, without depriving him of this in great trouble
with his behavior disarray.

Dupont accompanied the two newlyweds who had come from Madrid, teaching holds. He was an old friend of
a gay life in Madrid comrade who had sat head end by marrying.

- You have to get out of here drunk - Dupont said the young newlyweds .-- It ritual: we would consider
disgraced if a friend out of this house it came.

And Dupont the most benevolent smile welcomed with the words of his cousin, while listing the
excellence of each wine famous. The manager of the winery, stiff as a soldier, placed before
the barrels with two glasses in one hand and the other compromise, a rod iron topped by a narrow
saucepan.

- Saca, Juanito! - Imperiously ordered the master.

The compromise was sinking into different barrels, and in one fell
swoop, without spilling a drop, he filled the glasses.

Out air and light golden wine, crowned with brilliant falling into the glass, spreading around
an intense perfume of old age.

All shades Amber, from light gray to pale yellow, shining in those dense liquid view as oil, but
in a clear transparency. A distant exotic perfume, which made fantastic flowers think of a supernatural
world where there was eternal, emanated of these liquids extracted from the mystery of the casks. Life
seemed to accrue to the palate; charged senses new intensity, the blood burned in his trampling
on circulation and the smell was excited feeling unknown longing,
as if sniff a new electricity in the atmosphere.

The couple drank all travelers, after resist weak protests Luis invitations.

-
Hi, Barbie! - Dupont told the child to see Montenegro .-- How is your
family? One day of these go into the vineyard. I want to try a horse
that I bought yesterday.

And after shaking hands with Montenegro
and take several pats on the shoulders, satisfied able to demonstrate
the strength of his big hands to those friends, he turned his back.

Fermin
had great confidence in this gentleman. It tuteaban, had grown up
together in the vineyard Marchamalo, with that frankness of treatment
enabled the Dupont family.

With Don Pablo, the situation was different.
The master did not differ from Fermin in over half a dozen years,
also had seen him as a boy running through the vineyard in the late
times Don Paul, but now was the head of the family, the head of the
house, and he understood the authority to use old, grim and indisputable
as God, with shouts and outbursts of anger, just sensed the slightest
disobedience.

- Stay - briefly ordered Montenegro, - I have to talk