 

The waters of the Madeira River and the Rio Marañon river are black, which has a league width
at points where there are no islands, it embraces two and sometimes more in those where there.
Sixty miles below the Madeira River, going straight, or ninety, following the windings, is
to meet at the famous river Marañon Tapajoz, and sixty leagues under the latter, the Xingu river,
also very plentiful, and lower Cuyaba province.

The Maranon or Amazon is then gradually widening to plunge into the
sea.

Moral and administrative improvements that the province is susceptible.

Being now the province of Moxos head of a department is likely to prosper without interruption
in all respects and in all areas, particularly if the care provided prefectural government to
instruct his men to make educated and able to march in front introducing into it since then, and at
the same time, any possible improvements.

It is above all necessary to reform the religious abuses I have mentioned, but it is necessary work
in this regard with the utmost tact, and taking the utmost care so as not to go to the Indians
from one end to another, of their fanatical beliefs to a full irreligion. All the reforms of this
kind should not be introduced but little by little, without making use of absolute rules, and
making the transition is insensitive to the utmost. The medium would be more effective to put in these
educated church missions, that would make excel healthy and well-understood moral of Catholicism
in the religious beliefs of the Moxenos, on abolishing exaggerated penances and punishments
bloody, unworthy and agencies and the enlightened age in which we live. Meanwhile, there would
no longer be harmful to my way to see that the civilian administration
ostensibly meddle in the execution of these reforms, serious as feared
that reaching the Moxos to be freed from this background that keeps
religion offline, it corrupted everything.

Finally, the execution of such a reform is extremely difficult, and requires all the wisdom,
the wisdom of an enlightened government, to be driving the car of the improvements with the greatest
possible restraint and caution.

Administrative reform requires no less tact and prudence. A people who lived during almost two
centuries, accustomed to more humble servility, and to not have anything in property can not move from
a blow to full independence without exposing to greater evils than which seeks to redress. It
would then need to place at the same time, in every mission, a man able to teach with due care
to these infants of civilization to take the first steps towards freedom of action, towards
individual ownership, and above all, towards relations This mutation determines social things.
Meanwhile, it is clear that if trade All their activity is not power the Moxenos, to encourage
further work to industry, making them meet certain needs while still ignored being too sober
in nature, and little ambitious, certainly abandon all gainful occupation as soon as they
saw free, and will result from this fact, instead of civilization perhaps his greatest hindrance.
There is also a factor to consider important, and that the inhabitants of Moxos are nothing more
than mere craftsmen, and that this class of individuals, even in Europe itself, can not make
any progress, but under the direction of learned men and able to engage in any kind of improvement.
It is necessary see that a people and a high degree of civilization to sugetarse factory work;
Moxeño so that, seeing books before they be established manufactures in the province to take up arms,
came out, I repeat, by losing what little they know today, at the same while industrial habits.
This is one of the highest political economy issues that the government
will know probably appreciate it properly, taking measures that will
lead the general interest of the inhabitants, while tending to the
advancement of the country.

Always returning to the same subject, and I insist that frequent certain relationships by trade,
and continued contact of natural men who are Moxos exceed the education, customs and industry,
can only operate between them by little and little natural and positive reform, in that, any
action out of time maybe it would bring disastrous results. Therefore urges primarily promote
trade by abolishing certain taxation to facilitate it, and then the Moxos, knowing what they are
worth, and they can do to procure the welfare, civilized and march
towards a social state prosperous and stable.

To aid in this forward march, is indispensable, as it has practiced the current government, schools
that teach not only the Spanish language, but also mathematics and drawing, in order to do
that they go together, moral instruction, industrial and commercial. To encourage the study
would be necessary, there more than anywhere Moreover, distributed as a reward honorable awards
provided the talent and to the nature of individuals, since it had some that were marked by any
kind merit. We must not lose sight of the creatures Moxeño are great, and that will result from them
whatever you want, provided that the good deeds will be timely rewarded
somehow.

One of the essential measures for improving this province, it is particularly which is aimed at preventing
the death of the creatures, and the plague of smallpox that strike adults. Such evils are
decimating the population, where significant accretion should for such favorable conditions
under which it is attached.

It is therefore of absolute need to seat in each canton to a doctor paid by the government
and responsible for manage relevant health condoms.

The priests, whom the ministry gets more in touch with the people, should take his by propagating
the vaccine, and epidemics, constantly monitor the actions of Indians to prevent these from
leaving their homes to go to bathe, as they always do, shopping with
passengers life a relief.

It could also pray for the priests, care to take great care to preserve the creature born
of the action recently South Wind, as pernicious in this province and that of Caupolican.

Being a natural duty of any given society with some sacrifice to take action leading to their improvement
and welfare, nothing more just that the use of all means for implement them as appropriate; even
if this requires, the imposition of heavy taxes, because otherwise
it would be very difficult to cope with the many expenses.

However, little burdensome whether these contributions will be allocated at a rate of more
equitable, and moderation and insight appropriate.

As a country advances in civilization, also grow by degrees their
burdens; but being so judiciously penetrated the taxpayer of the reasons
that determine RAVEL new taxes, you agree to bear more so request,
as you enjoy the same as the part that it fits in the sum of social
benefits.

Improvements in agriculture, industry and trade of the province is susceptible.

Moxos province has in itself all the elements of improvement, applicable to classes of agriculture,
industry and commerce. I will quote from them, primarily those who can receive A drive new
and more productive.

The main object, indeed indispensable for raising cattle, farming, and even for the health,
would be the construction of small canals, so easy to open in extremity soft ground. These channels,
serving for the early leak of the marshes, would make the surface
were enlarged considerably benefit you.

To increase land suffice to practice here and there some bloodletting, as deemed appropriate
to the engineers, in view of the grading. This measure is perhaps one of the most urgent, because
it would contribute to a doubling of resources and to reduce the mortality of the population.

In
most of South America, the farms are far behind on measures building for raising cattle. The
animals are abandoned and wander without they never try to secure some comfort. In Moxos,
in Parages intermediate between rivers, the land is entirely devoid of water during the dry,
and cattle often resent the suffering that this fact brings them, while in rainy seasons, are
forced to seek shelter on the few and narrow Items not invaded by water, compressed and lived
there almost lacking food, so is that they painstakingly go down to the marshes to graze part
of the day, and return after the close rodeo where they have enough space to lie down and
chew comfortably. Great is because the death of cattle in both seasons, something that very
easily would avoid setting up water tanks at some points, and drainage channels in many others.
In those places has not yet entered the art to give help to nature, for which reason Moxos
not removed even half the benefits that this land can produce virgin and privileged. The execution
of the improvements just mentioned, then multiply considerably cattle, which make up today's
more hundred and twenty thousand heads procrearia each year more than half their number. Fats
and hides would give Then a very grown-income individuals and to
the exchequer.

Although the breeding of horses would be more appropriate for several reasons, to the province
of Chiquitos, we must not lose sight entirely in the province of which we are concerned: on
the contrary, it having already more than twenty five thousand horses, it would be useful to take care
of their improvement and increasing, what will be achieved more easily, when grazing land dilate with
the establishment of drainage channels.

These animals on the plains, wetlands, fortify their vessels as soon as they move over the mountains,
where the rocky soil undoubtedly alter their habits.

I say the horse is also applicable to the breeding of mules, industry
not yet known, and should be introduced without delay, in order to
save the sums of money Every year Bolivia output from the introduction
of these useful beasts, brought from Salta, Tucuman, Santiago del
Estero, etc.

In 1830 he had already Moxos as seven hundred seventy-four
sheep: who cares for little the promotion and propagation of these
cattle, wool would be obtained soon enough to provide to the looms,
and then, not only would be supplied by the province itself spawned
wool merchants carry them, but that it would produce, instead of cotton
goods, Wool tected much more advantageous for your business.

In a country whose territory is immense, it could breed more pigs leave alone grazing around
the estates, so that without addressing much of them, were multiplied to cope with provisions
to sailors on the remote expeditions, salting the effect meat, as
practiced in Europe for consumption by the crew of the Navy and shipping.

Bees

wax results would also unprofitable, but that for eSCelente have lighting in the province would be
sufficient to engage a factory spark plugs, using the fat that is wasted each year in slaughterhouses.

The
indigo of various species, grows naturally in less flooded sites, without think of using it somehow.
This plant is abundant particularly in the country of the Yuracarés, and its quality is superior.

The
cultivation of vanilla, which is grown wild in the forest interior,
very serious advantageous for commerce with Europe, where it makes
a huge consumption in spite of their increased cost.

The same goes for the other trees that provide highly valued drugs and spices, such as cinnamon,
cloves, nutmeg, ginger, etc.

Tamarind plantations renovated, with very little work would yield an abundant harvest would
form while beautiful malls in the vicinity of populated areas.

The cocoa is grown and wild in the woods nearby to Trinidad, should stand as that costs nothing
at all groves found at every step in the territory of the province, thus preparing for the future,
natural income as those of Caupolican.

Coffee is also susceptible to a new drive, and centuplicaria their products with a well-ordered
culture method. The same would happen to corn, rice, etc. The province
Moxos finally be advisable for the cultivation of all species of tropical
plants.

The candy cane sprout, especially in those flood plains, with a prodigious force and yield substantial
proceeds and when communications between Moxos and Cochabamba La-Paz
and be made more easy and frequent, there would be safe and profitable
markets for the release of sugars, that today lack these cities, with
bring the Cuzco most of those required for consumption, but could
not be subtracted instead the coinage of Bolivia to enrich Peru.

Never been used Moxos woods but in small woodworking that Indians
are inlaid with mother of pearl, and it may well be drawn from them
a party advantage by referring to Europe, or to bring the departments
of the mountains, then to be very abundant but are of the highest
quality.

The rubber, which grows naturally in the forests, is today an important branch Para trade. It
would be necessary, not only use wild plants, but also make large-scale plantations to take full
advantage of this article adds value.

Countless other plants known to dye his virtue, should benefit by them an important branch of
the interior and exterior trade.

Cucis motacú palms and trade would give plenty of oil, no more work
annually to collect fallen coconuts from the tree, and strategies
the substance by machines analogous to those used in Europe for estracion
walnut oil.

Thus would take advantage of those fruits that are lost every year, and its oil would serve, and
to replace on the tables, after clarifying, the olives, and for lighting, feeding lamps made to
order, and whose use is now general in Europe, and for employment it can be done in industry
and manufacturing.
