 The gentleman is the fussiest Leonardo of all my
clients. Can not you see that nothing in wealth? Do not see how to shed the money? To what
it costs! And you see his father Don Candido, the other day as it were, walked with leg on the
floor. I think I see him when he arrived from his land brought empleita shoes (Pleita meant
better, sandals), jacket and trousers of cloth and cloth cap. A little put more wood and tile
shop, then brought black Africans in droves, then married with a girl who was witty, then you
came money for all four sides and is now caballerazo first one, her daughters chitin roll
couple and their son ounces of gold boot water as one boot. And meanwhile the poor girl ... But
shut up language. Well, according to I said, Jose Dolores, Leonardo gentleman came here last
week and said: - Master Uribe, you have the undivided green cloth I made specifically to bring
Paris that you make me a jacket as it should. But you let the old ages, perched on waist the
neck, or tails of swallows. I'm not Zacatecan, Johnny Reed, and Peter Montalvo. Do me a jacket
like the people, the dernier, I know that you know paint on the body, when he wants. That boy has
so much money, it is necessary to please or burst. In addition, he is so smart and handsome,
the tone in fashion, and if I am right to do one thing good, I wear boots. Although to be honest,
I have no hands to all the work I've dropped. Where it is clear that the jurisdiction of English
Frederick, away from damaged, they has helped me. So, my dear Jose Dolores, the accoutrement.

-
I told you, Senor Uribe, do what I can, but sepal, will not have time to give last hand. The main
thing, however, is made, that is, the collar and neck.

Frame of the skirts and back you can handle it, and the eyelets nobody does it better than sign
Clara.

- Bring the coat.

The officer brought her, and her hand to suspend the eye level, Uribe walked to a mirror in
the dividing wall of the first window and door. There followed mechanically José Dolores. When
the two were in front of the mirror, he said the master to his officer

-
Come on, Jose Dolores, you served as a model ... Hastily, you have
the same body as the gentleman Leonardo.

- Okay, Sr. Uribe, "replied
Pepper lousy mood.

But no copy eh?

- My friend, you little words live today. What is carving you in there?

Took before one of the girls Gamboa Cecilia Valdés, now you get mad because, to save time, I taste
the brother's coat on your body. If you do this target because it treads the shadow, worst
thing you can do is take it to heart. What remedy, José Dolores? Conceal, hold on. Do as the
dog with wasps, baring teeth into believing that you laugh. Can not you see they are the hammer
and the anvil us? The whites came first and eat best slices, we of color came later, and thanks
Roemer bones. Leave run, Chinaman, who ever has to touch us. This can not last forever as well.
Do what I do. Do not you see me kiss a lot of hands I want to see cut? You appear to me comes
from within. No way, because the truth and true is that target verb, not I dread the paper.

-
Which law so brave, Sr. Uribe! Could not help but exclaim how low the officer, surprised rather
than alarmed that entertained early as severe.

- Why, "continued the master tailor, have you figured that because I am making rande vu all those
who come into this house, I do not know that I have distinguished
and pride?

You're wrong; man into a verb, believe nobody better than me. "I would estimate at least because
I'm colored? Nonsense. How many counts, lawyers and doctors out there who are ashamed that
their father or mother sat beside them in the chitin, or accompany the Captain General levee in the
days of King or Queen Cristina? Maybe you're not as aware as I am, because no chases you with
greatness. But think again a bit and remember. Do you know the father of the Count ...? As was the
steward of his grandmother. And the father of the Marquise ...? A saddler in Matanzas, cerote
dirtier than they used to smear the pita with harness stitching.