 Is it needed for the settlement of a project that had been meditating for a short time this
part. I wanted as a doctor certifies that without risk of life was not possible the transfer
of the patient in the hospital de Paula, the new madhouse. This first place. Second, support was
also intended to serve as a conduit through which Josefa sign, or else the granddaughter received
a monthly pension of twenty-five dollars ½ indefinitely.

Stimulated the greed of Montes de Oca with a splendid gift, it was difficult to dispatch certification,
or accept the assignment allowance. This was a way by Don Candido, faithful to the thief, was that
it would be perhaps more risky test the third-party discretion in that case.

So cut, I thought Gamboa, direct all future relationship with the three accomplices in his
grave guilt, without fail to the commitments they made. But there was the tail to be skinned. How
Cecilia Valdés rid of the bonds that held out his son Leonardo? They loved each other with
delirium, were often not enough to separate her scolding grandmother, or threats to it, by Dona
Rosa, Don Candido. There was therefore forced to the gallant ship and throw the country, or
to kidnap the woman and not to find it anywhere or communicate with him. The first thing that
had not even thinking about it: Dona Rosa is opposed to all his strength. Secondly, it was highly
risky and I was surrounded by difficulties almost insurmountable. Such were the thoughts that
most concerned the spirit of Don Candido and made him suffer the tortures of hell by the time
we historian.

Now: of course desirable to proceed to the kidnapping of the girl? Convenient, but it was not
urgently needed at the time, for two main reasons, namely because they lived grandmother,
but sickly and decadent, and because in two weeks would leave the
family spend Easter at the ingenuity of a barrel, and it was agreed
that Leonardo was in the game.

Indeed, a week before the Mariel despatched the schooner Winner: your employer Francisco Sierra
with the victuals, preserves and wines that were not for love or money those parts, and with the
servants of the particular service of Gamboa's family, including
Ted and Dolores.

They should also be joining Miss Ilincheta with his aunt Juana for which Leonardo and Meneses Diego
would escort them from Alquízar.
The reason for the next meeting of the two families in La Tinaja
was intended witness the opening of a steam engine to aid in the grinding
of the cane honey rather than the power of blood with which there
had been operating until the early heavy mill