 No shock will take him.

- Yes ... it is true ...-- Beatriz said -
but Braulio has compelling reasons.

Why I feel ashamed to say to you? We are poor ... How do you spend on clothes? ...

- And why the costumes? In my house ... We confidently ... You can go as you ... now, less
luxurious yet ... and until the work can take you there ... You'll see how you get distracted there
at night. Your sister will be distracted too, because they provided chickens home their age and
will know more when she goes. As for your husband ... is not a requirement indispensable to
accompany you always. That would be ridiculous for several reasons, because it would suspect
he was a zealous suspicious, which would be in contempt of yours, or because it would presume that
was a man incapable bare, he had no business in what used, but in Finally, even when your husband
was often at my house, I am certain that, far from weigh is happy. There are quite a few subjects
of their position. Would be released, win friends and talk policy, finance, science, everything, looking
so much to say that you know ... and until the present, that is in peace and without getting
angry, it has not helped. You confess it ... you are not very lucid.

- We are pleased ... and do not want more.

- That is a virtue ...
but sterile.

When no goal is not reached. It must suck all ... For you see my husband ... And I'll introduce
you ... Not worth the twentieth part of your Don Braulio. And yet ... how do you know wits! ... It
is a gyrfalcon ... I speak to you from the heart in hand. It is necessary that we remove your husband
of limbo in which they live. It has elements ... Why not to use them? To a philosopher, contempt
of the world and its vain pomp, would have done better not to marry a bud like you.

- What? I loved her so much!

- Too bad you did not love you out!

Who does not instill love?

You, however, grateful ...

- Not just grateful ... love too ...

-
So, have you loved a lot?

- And I love him still.

- His great talent
seduced you: two reasons to use it in making you happy, so that vague
musings stop and see what matters.

I do not know what a writer has compared acute speculative philosopher with a mule that turns
a wheel, attached to it by the devil metaphysics, drawing water not drinking and not eating
the abundant grass and fresh vegetable that everywhere around you. Well, even worse when the
philosopher or the mule, following the mischievous comparison, has a partner and rope leads, not
left to graze either.

- My duty and my taste is to follow my husband wherever he goes, so take me to a barren desert
as a land of promise. For that, I do not think that is so deep in futile dreams, that ignores
the reality of life.

- Best case. I'm glad. Without flattery, I will be very nice your husband. It has good looks.
Is known to be bird counts. The only thing that should be reformed
is the hat and the peaks the collar.

Are enormous. Why not make the cut that a bit?

- It's a whim. Insists on taking them well, but not stubborn in matters of importance.

- So ... good will.

With picks and all seems well ... very curiosito ... very neat ... Even the huge enormity
of the peaks seems to me as it gives some original character and severe. But, sir, where do you have
hidden the Count?

- What Count? - Asked Beatrice.

- Your most ardent admirer. Just saw you came to tell me that you
had arrived.

Singular is the fear that you have.

It is absurd in a man so fluent and so bold. Nothing ... I'm ashamed
to present to you, he has escaped.

Is delaying what you want most ... Thank God! Is already there.

Beatrice looked toward indicating his interlocutor, and saw that he approached the circle the beautiful
and elegant Count Alhedín.

- Is not it true that it is very gentle? - Asked the countess.

Beatriz made a funny face that meant nothing.

- And then - said the countess - if you saw how good and how simple and how sir!

Beatriz said nothing either to corroborate these praises.

Here came the Count, and San Teódulo was presented on Beatrice and her sister and Don Braulio.

It was the Count of recent school and last breeding, which boasts
of spending little regard with women, or if it was, could distinguish
occasions and people, and knowing he would not win with bold and sharply
folded down on its prey, was to cut and shy in the first moments.

He merely said some polite words to each of the two sisters, without too close to them, and
above all, without incurring the insolent vulgarity, in which now incur often men, reaching
out to the ladies just know them forcing them to slights or all of a sudden come to amicable
terms of confidence.

Then looked the most natural way to start a conversation with Don Braulio, and as if a man so formal
and weight as him, he entertained over half an hour on important
matters.

She further. Did something that seemed impossible, given what he was talkative, learned to shut
up, listen with attention and don Braulio compel him to speak, of
which Don Braulio left happy.

Finally, with general conversation, the Count dropped the reins to his good humor, skewered thousand
humorous blunders, always within the limits not just of decency, but the more delicate manners,
and enjoyed and rejoiced at the meeting, be making nice to everyone.

Thus prepared the minds, when they had just struck eleven, and abandon
the proposed Condesa Gardens and all go home to tea.

Don Braulio, although it had laughed at the thanks Earl and was glad that he had heard discreet,
scales both gift and was not a little startled to see how it was getting into the big trot
world, but could not resist. The Countess was going to take up her house in his car. Then,
from the house of the Countess to the Don Braulio had a few steps
to go.

Raided and the difficulties it would have been rude not to accept the invitation.

Don Braulio thus accepted in the company of his wife and Ines, the four in the same Landau open
that night was an intimate gathering to the daily running of the Countess of San Teódulo.

X

In
general, no gathering or meeting for fun where no dancing or to play cards. Without sitting for
the elderly and no polkas and waltzes for the young, all usually bored. Is admirable, therefore, a gathering,
like our Condesa, where only had fun chatting with people. The woman who manages to have a
chat and can boast have put a pike in Flanders. Know how many of these businesses will be recognized
worldly in women who preside over such gatherings uncommon gifts of understanding.

Other singular virtues shone also in Rosita. It was so good as a bad friend for the enemy. Her
husband wanted, cared for him and petted him as the most faithful and consort lover. This had
not prevented it had estimated after and loved and otherwise other shades and hues of honey.

Women
usually do not understand that there is only one baby, giving full someone or distributed in this
way or the other. Rosita was not. Rosita felt understood and various affections, not destroying
each other and are harmonized nicely.

The Count of San Teodulo loved him in a way, his poet wanted another, and these feelings, own
and exclusive of women arose others that seemed to start the fund essential spirit where there is
no difference of woman and man of principle neutral, before you purchase determination sexual.
I mean that Rosita loved many of his commentators to a friend similar to what a man can feel for
another man, with a sweetness most ineffable her as a woman, and
even pretty woman, manages to put into this friendship, completely
oblivious all feel love.

The first of these friends was the Comte de Rosita Alhedín. Between Rosita and the Count had not secrets.
Everything is trusted. The Earl looked at her friend consolation for their troubles and tips
for your difficulties.

Rosita Condesito admired talent: we laughed all jokes, was that no one was more discreet than
he, nor her poet and her husband were worth Pitoche next to Conde,
and he had made any sacrifice Rosita.

Never, however, and the Count had thought of love to Rosita and love it in the count.

So poetic relations based on mutual esteem, to Rosita was Alhedín
Count as an oracle, especially when it came to science that we dare
to call Aesthetics social, that is, to qualify people, and actions
and things, stylish, of distinguished and beautiful.

A sentence of Count Alhedín on ugly or pretty, on good tone and bad tone on distinction or lack
of distinction, was appealed to Rosita.

This will include their sudden enthusiasm for his old friends there. Count it had described as two
portents, and Rosita had taken for granted that they were.

Wishing then show them off at their gathering, happy to see the enthusiasm of so competent
judge The Count fell on his nearly countrywomen, and hoping that the Count of known and tried,
sought and found, as we have seen Beatrice and Agnes.

The Count himself, as he saw them, had come to tell who came through which was easily tired Rosita
recognize.

Moreover, neither in this plan was sinful, or Machiavellian purpose or any concert between the Count
of Alhedín and confidant.

Nothing had been hatched against the virtue and Beatrice or against the innocence of Agnes,
nor against the rest of Don Braulio honored.

Rosita looked with joy and pride to their semi-countrywomen, confident in the praise of the
Count. When finding them, or because they were well-disposed, either because they deserved it all,
he seemed better, each in his style, which he had said the Count. And Rosita was not envious, when
there was no jealousy or emulation by, wished well to all her friends
and was honest about Beatriz had spoken.

I went through your mind that your home could Inesita find a good boyfriend, felt at home may
come out of its dark Don Braulio, and as he has judged bird came to fingírsele in a short time or Director
General or Minister, making a thousand businesses use to the country, and especially her husband,
and did not seem not unlikely that at home and the Count of Beatrice finds himself falling hopelessly
Alhedín from each other, but this could not manage to see Rosita, as happens, and it occurred
with due caution, nothing tragic, or even unpleasant to Don Braulio who, as she had said, it was
really nice, and who was already very high concept.

With such ideas about their new, or rather, restarted friends, the Countess of San Teódulo burst into
kindness.

Beatrice was in the party happy and charming. Pleased to be served and pampered for all, rejected
the shortness and took the land, as if he were already in those who attend classrooms. Everyone,
even the most difficult, admired his ingenuity to match its beauty, and celebrated the natural
simplicity of his manner, his is not learned but innate elegance and their spontaneous Andalusian
charm.

Although the intoxication of success Beatriz tended to talk too much, I knew restraint and to not
be tempered by brash and talkative.

Through their thoughtful prudence was therefore unbeatable.

Ines, for style, was also very good. His Olympic serenity, its calm divine, not abandoned for
a moment.

In luxury and splendor of this house, previously unknown for her, she felt, as his sister,
who rose to head something like vapors of champagne, and without the rustic jungle indifference,
and without the affected contempt of vain and proud, not wondered about anything, showing that
he understood and believed it all, but was not foreign to your condition. In short: Ines was
in the party as it might have been a real princess, for whom all these festivities were a proper
element, or rather, were below the item that she was breathing and that his soul alive.

The serenity of Agnes might have passed for pride if it were not softened by a gentle angelic perhaps
been confused with apathy foolish, if in the light of her eyes, clear and profound at the
same time, intelligence will not fire. Who fixed his gaze on that of she believed to penetrate through
magical crystals within an enchanted palace filled mystery, or imagined sinking to the bottom of
clear lake, beautiful village and vague creations, whose divine contours could not quite understand
intently, because the most Sigh slight aura of pure curling waves,
and these, without loss in clarity or purity every image faded and
vanished.

As for Don Braulio, must be confessed he was quite cramped and out of place in such gatherings.

We
know that it was very escamón, as they say on their land.

So while disguised with ability, was with the beard on his shoulder and fingers seemed guests.
He was smart, but boasted ladino, and came to be about malicious.

He was therefore one of the party very different concept of Dona Beatriz had formed.

Although Don Braulio had lived mostly in places and small towns of the province, and but in
Seville, during the first years of their marriage, had been retiradísimo without never deal with
what they call the great world, he conceived and understood him more
beautiful than now presented itself.

He hesitated, therefore, that the great world was pure, but Fake I imitate him, as is imitation
gold ormolu.

And in this way was beyond what is reasonable and made judgments adventurous, understanding all
the grotesque and Trabuco things.
Los Condes de San Teódulo seemed a if Counts not stick, and while
the gathering was subject of true worth and class, the concept was
a bit cloudy that Don Braulio masters of the house had to project
a certain dark shadow on the house that attended. In almost no one
thought right. Strange human condition! One only won of course confidence,
one just seemed elegant, distinguished, noble completely discreet,
distinguished, elegant, sweet and fair: The Count of Alhedín.

Seeing
often whispering Rosita and be home more carefree than the others,
Don Braulio, going from ready on this occasion, made a settlement
there in his mind, and decided the Earl of Alhedín represented in
that house on paper than in reality represented the poet Arthur.

Back
inside the Don Braulio Conde graciously spared this loss, and considering
their excellent qualities, and without fear of anything on this side,
almost intimate with him. 

Instead, the poet, who was very nosy,
which of course treated with the utmost confidence the two sisters,
who approached a lot to talk to them, and by bad manners as being
somewhat short-sighted, and began to Beatrice in verse and prose infinite
compliments, Don Braulio took grudge and looked like a Don Juan Tenorio
needy and third or fourth class.

Anyway, Don Braulio not loved the
gathering, but Don Braulio had a pattern for his conduct, which had
decided not to depart.

As it is society, which would be the ideal
he had of the great world, the fact was that the house of the Counts
of San Teódulo was a respectable house, where any other in place,
would have been thrilled to be admitted