 Something, however, is still in the composition of the mysticism of others.
It's like a small piece of the Song of Songs, or better say the Gita-govinda, whose compliments,
tenderness and material descriptions can be interpreted by otherworldly style and transcendent. The
composition in this case also has a uniqueness that has neither the erotic romance of the Hebrews
and the Indians. Crishna Solomon saw, heard and touched beautiful and love your friends, but
this poet or touch or see, or hear his, if not the imagination with vague uncertain, and in
such a manner that it can live on this planet in another very remote, and the same may be our
contemporary, to be born the last forty centuries or even be waiting another forty in the world of
ideas, before it reaches the day of his incarnation and its occurrence among people of our caste.

-
Very curious is what you tell me, but it is not original or new.

It's so hard to be new and original! Do not you love Elena Faust, who lived 2500 years before
he was born? Is there no Arabic or Persian tale, where a Muslim prince, who lived two hundred
or three hundred years after Muhammad, is madly in love with some queen or princess of Serendib
or Sheba, which flourished in the days of Solomon and was Sulamita rival?

- All that is true, but even more vague and indeterminate Mrs. thoughts of our Indian poet. The Muslim
prince in love with the rival Sulamita had found and admired the portrait of her father's treasure,
while there is no picture or is there any indication through which to glimpse or have any idea or
notion of his lady, the author of the verses I have translated. Hear them carefully.

- I'm all ears.

    Count Henry read thus:
    
    Where are you hiding, my beauty,
    they do not get to see my eyes, As I dream of my fantasy Full of
grace, free of anger?

    
    
    Come do the Kokila sweet gurgles
    Do pay the lotus aroma in the wind Come see my longing wish And understand
you my understanding.

    
    
    You're not dreaming, you really are;
    Do not pretend these spells soul, Although most beautiful women Yours
will call the immortals.

    
    
    In the pure light in your eyes
    Love lights your darts gold and your lips are sealed ballot box Source
of their pleasure and treasure.

    
    
    Ora reside off the ground Ora show
    up in another age, For the three worlds in rapid flight I will go
looking for you.

    
    
    Bright pearl, though hidden In the deep
    sea are, I find you know, it's my life For me des exalted prize.

Poldy heard the verses carefully and discussed them with his brother and even tried with apparent
critical coldness, giving some merit and pointing out their many
flaws. What she concealed and not revealed or his brother or anyone,
was the swarm of assumptions and dreams verses that arose in his imagination.