 

XLI

= Cabinet Bringas house.

Nightfall .=

Dismayed .--=( ROSALIA, giving the air with a fan, with a handkerchief, with a newspaper and
everything in by hand.) = A will give me something. It seems that the blood carries me and that
raises me all in your head ... Do not tell me more, man, for Christ's sake, no tell me more.
Heinous immorality stuns me, overwhelms me, makes me crazy ... And
what you saw?

Illusion Would you ...?

THIERS .-- As he had not see! In the car was quiet, well sheltered at, not saying This mouth
is mine, and so happy that threw light on the eyes ...

ROSALIA .-- And you had the patience to witness such a scandal?

... With that you can not do his wife because she is a ... and make your darling ...! I am blown
... So great shame our family, this family honored and exemplary few, drives me crazy ... = (Looking
at you hard.) = "And do not say anything?," put up with in your beard
...?

.--=( THIERS Preparing to tell a fib.) = So my outrage was when
Augustine me I said ... because he had the shamelessness to confess
his weakness ... I was outraged as well, I said four things and I
turned my back and I left the station.

ROSALIA .--=( Met.) = So did you? Of course, you could not restrain your anger. He came back
back, you left the word in the mouth ...

.--=( THIERS Asking God for forgiveness mind your lies.) = As I tell you. The truth is that we
can not treat more with my cousin. Who had to say!, Moderate man, everything I wanted to take the
spearhead, and miss the good principles, kicking the Society, Religion,
Family, venerating to everything, in short!

... If it is I say: the approaching dislocations. This goes to the trap. The revolution is not
long; come the spoils of the rich, atheism, free love.

ROSALIA .-- come, and I think it will come, and more ... When horrors are so incredible, everything
can wait. = (Sofocadísima.) = No cataclysm and take me again.

.--=( THIERS Melancholy.) = Just have eyes to see that this society
quickly loses respect for all.

Made public derision of the throne and the altar, the rot of demoralization rife, and when I
see that mine is free of infection, it seems a miracle.

ROSALIA .--=( Pensive.) = Did not he say whether he would return with the precious cargo to
his mistress?

THIERS .-- Yes, again, again ...

ROSALIA .--=( With extraordinary swelling of the nose.) = I do not
want to stay in my within four truths that I say from one to the other.

Oh, no, no I will. I will be able to go to France to Beijing vent my anger ...

THIERS .-- The best day I have here as campers ... and live as married,
insulting to honesty, virtue ... We see each atrocity ... Joaquin
said it very clearly Paquito and the other afternoon, shattering the
pick and the incendiary torch are prepared.

The demagoguery ...!

Oh, I forgot one important thing. Something we are winning. He told
me that fool you could have everything that was purchased for the
wedding.

CAUTION .--=( from the door.) = Lady soup.

ROSALIA .--=(
addition, losing his looks in the portrait of Juan de Pipaón, is represented
with a roll of paper in his hand.) = return. Here I want to have,
here! ... Leech of the blessed, we will see the faces.

END OF TORMENT.

Madrid.
January 1884