 Everything I have thought, but you must not know
and not see it.

- How?

Where?

- Come home with me.

There are only a few minutes to get the appointment time.

With give me the value your presence.

- That's another thing - said Dona Ines.

Doña Inés thought, no doubt, in time to taste that would have contributed
to flick Don Alvaro, which would come very proud of the appointment
and she would be in his austere consort.

Indeed, if the launch went well, but tragedy would be farce.

Doña Inés lost her fear and felt the irresistible temptation to see
the farce and even make in him one of the leading roles.

- Okay,
Juanita - said -.

Go to your company and I'll lend you my assistance.

Fine test I'll give you my friendship with this, because I can also get involved.

- Understand each other - said Juanita -. I do not want your help. What merit would then my victory?
You do not undertake, because you will be hidden and nobody will
know you've been in my house.

Nor will expose you to any accident, because you will see the bulls from the scaffold.

- Yes ... but ... explain yourself, do not make me go blind ..., explain
yourself ....

- It will happen when.

Urge to go home. No time to give explanations, nor you the need. Ea, despáchate. Take a shawl, throw
it better to face so you do not see it.

The People walk entranced by the procession, which probably ends
at this moment, and will not repair or you or me.

And speaking of this sort, the same Juanita looked for a shawl, put it on the head Dona Ines
and, taking it ahead of himself, pushed her and made her walk.

Dona
Ines dominated by that imperious creature, she got carried away.

Both
came home in Juanita. This, for Rafaela not see who entered his house
accompanied someone else opened the door with the key in his pocket.

The
two women, quiet and toes, climbed to the upper room.

Missing and
a few minutes to eight.

The bedroom where he slept Juanita had no
light except that entering through a round window, open on the bedroom
door that led out into the room. In this, and not in the bedroom where
there was room enough, washed, combed and dressed every morning Juanita.