 I think not, but if anyone doubted this indeed,
can express their doubts, which practically may be met with enumeration of cases in which I
myself have been a consultant, not a single province, but several.

There are happier and brief civil litigation, although the parties as directed by lawyers,
and well supplied with their motions (many I have done), to seek to activate, and countering
musings of litigating in bad faith, do not get it, and the reason is because they know that
ask the judge to advise and stopped the business, and cars adviser to Manila when has occasion:
then are endless litigation in the first instance, because they come and go Manila to the province
several times, and many of them to issue a not, that knew very well it promoted what would happen
so, but in the meantime annoy his hand, and if in possession of the thing Litiji, enjoys it and enjoy,
and which has blessed: incalculable damages that are caused, as well as being so palpable that the
delay and large extravagance for those who demand justice, and the facility to hinder the
who want to retain the alien, because it will promote the natural obstacles, as said, and those
derived from the mayors and correjidores lay, these could certainly disappear if these destinations
are served by lawyers, and as regular as it sounds, and many would stop worse, as indicated.

§. IV.

OF THE MAYOR AND OTHER ITEMS CONSIDERED CORREJIDORES OUTSIDE THE BRANCH OF JUSTICE.

Hitherto only mentioned these employees as dependents of the judiciary,
it is necessary also considered as heads of finance in the provinces,
and say some things about it, monstrosities that even though they
appear, are only realities, because here it is referring only things
as they are, without exaggeration, or other defect or defect.

Correjidores the mayors and the Philippines, in addition to the judicial functions meet civil
government and defense of the people, that is a mockery of our political leaders and commanders
generals, and collection and administration of the tax paid by Indians,
the Spendius of bulls and stamped paper, or are the employees of the
treasury function, which is to say, raise, managed and distributed,
and over whose fault will talk to the finance deal.

For our purposes in what is now dealing with, suffice it to say that the provisions in municipal
and Fixed with three counts that embrace these jobs of justice, and civil government finance,
will only be made to merchants, because those positions do not expect other remuneration,
promotion, award or reward that the benefits he gets from his administration and trade, and
consequently their own interests and increasing their wealth of deals
only, and need the right away and conscientious performance of their
obligations principals.

Enjoy strong twenty-five dollars a month when provided by the governor of Manila, Real and fifty
being appointed [10], and pay the Treasury a modest remuneration for pardon, as there is called,
you can trade, that is, licensed to deal trade a judge, a political
boss and a mayor, as such may be called the mayors correjidores in
the Philippines and the responsibilities of their jobs.

From the moment they are appointed mayors or correjidores, buy your boat domestic trade or cabotage,
and some even to the exterior, which bear effect of early exit in the provinces to which they
are intended: certainly involved in facilitating Spendius and collect their products from the people
who govern, to provide employment his ship, and drive shipments to Manila, and this, as mentioned,
is their main attention and his first care. Funds for the asset jiro and engage in trade after
taking office, should say the meet in Manila to a conventional interest for the rest of his team
and exit, then paid to those who collected outside the public treasury,
and with the same who follow his trade as long as they remain in their
posts.

A system Fixed municipalities and produced as monstrous and irregular, however, in its inception
some benefits to the Islands, because in the midst of the great fault is on them of capitalists,
many agricultural products and crafts of the provinces had not been encouraged, and would not
settle even if the mayor had not speculated on them to trade. Also it must be noted that there
are those in remote provinces and low useful for trade generals, just had other means of communication
that ships the mayor, but widespread and the coasting trade, is of necessity destroy a whole
in the provinces Islands absurd and damaging the system (which is already a lot) of correjidores
mayors and businessmen, and vary, as will, because only educated in lejislacion, on top of good
governance, principles of justice, and in a good education and care, are those who can manage
well and speedy justice in their districts; devoted to the statistics of some countries, which
after three centuries that we have, are slightly less than unknowns; promote means of regulating
the populations and beautiful; be useful plans and promoting reform in agriculture, industry
and navigation, and seek peace and tranquility of the islands for self-preservation and prosperity,
most solid media and stable than hitherto known, as the lights and illustration of those provinces
so demand it, and justice dictates.

§. V.

REFORMS IN THE FIELD.

It is therefore necessary so that considerable variations are supported, such as the following, ,
or other similar rules to them, much to their branch reform of both interest and importance, and
establish a solid basis for conservation and promotion of wealth as beautiful Island and public
safety, obrándose with all the wisdom, maturity and circumspection
that demands delicate case, and considering the reforms according
to circumstances, beginning at once to provide the courts of those
provinces where scholars of the qualities indicated, with the others
expresses the following paragraphs, and others deemed conducive.

1st That the superior court or regional court, which as said, is composed of a regent, five
ministers and two prosecutors, is divided into two rooms, and turn to open business, and only
the increase of subordinates is adopted one of the most important measures for guarantee and secure
the property and individual freedom according to constitutional law, which in all instances be
different want and order judges who fail [11], though more profitable was to provide that audience
with two rooms of four ministers in each, the regent, and two prosecutors
for reasons well within reach of everyone and be the audience of over
extent of territory and endowed with more scarcity of ministers.

2nd That the magistrates and prosecutors from the Audiencia of Manila, fulfilling the law of
the Indies can not ever get charge, advice or commission of any kind,
for any title, reason or cause, and in no case have other occupation
than that which will mark its August ministry.

Section 1 of the provisional rules for the administration of justice in Spain.

That 3rd largest and Fixed municipalities of all the islands are classified by input promotions
and terminations, and are performed by lawyers who must be of Royal appointment, and only in
the meantime will provide them generals, captains, governors, to
three candidates proposed by the hearing, any vacancies that occur
until the approval of His Majesty or the appointment of successor.

4th May for the provision of these destinations will comply with the
laws of India, speaking on provision of jobs, and saved the requirements
and formalities prescribed them [12] and also created many desirable
to replace some of those to be deleted.

5th That these charges are conferred by six years, with renewable with three others, when who
have exercised not giving cause for complaint, complied with to the satisfaction of the authorities above,
and then could be kept in them until the opportunity of transferring as appropriate and applicable,
moving up the vacancies according to their merit, ability and behavior;
bearing in mind that seniority will not advantage, but only on equal
circumstances.

Impeachment 6th to be the end of six years, or sooner if just cause
of dieren complaint, to request or the public prosecutor, or ex officio
if it would lead to under rules given in appropriate regulations.

That must be gifted 7th competently, and with a small difference in salary in scale set, as
their functions being equal, should have the greatest possible equality in the rewards, and
should barred: 1st all dealings, trade or merchandise is under serious penalties, which should
be detailed and be effective if: 2nd who do not receive fees any kind, paid for by the government
to administer justice, must not have another monetary pay his salary, and knowing that his good
size and zeal for the service they remunerated their respective promotions. The extinction of the
so-called fees judges is a point of reform, the more interesting because the judges will be
truly impartial judges, that do not support requests estemporáneas or multiply dilijencias useless,
which often take place to make up those fees, which on injury your pocket loss suffered by
the litigants, it is no less bulk the business suffered court, for
the delay and loss of precious time spent on such activities.

May 8th lawyers who have served to the satisfaction of their municipal government by the scale
established, they attend the merit contracted in the race to fill vacancies occurring in the hearing
of the territory, and are placed on them in preference to other any applicant, as justice requires,
and recommend various Indian laws, which deal on service awards, which can and should be understood
the same in the case of speech [13]. When you find that audience served by magistrates who have
made a career in the provinces, agreements and orders can not but be the most fair and similar
to the laws of India, the customs of the natives, and the good of the country, like chair across
the esperiencia and practice acquired in the years of his career,
which is not at least for the success.

May 9th level is kept strictly in the race, and are promoted to the courts for promotion the
entrance, and climb to the finish line, so that if this plan is adopted, once provided the
mayor, could not be provided those who aspire to enter the race more
than in courts of entry, and they passed over the whole scale spaces
for magistrates at the hearing, as stated.

10th May to encourage good lawyers to seek such positions, justifying course Majesty's Government
desire to compensate so that corresponds to the important dignity this kind of services that
judges were going to pay, and resolve to undertake the long journey for such a beautiful and
remote country, declare a mountain principle to the salary provided they signal, so that in the
case of dying on the trip or shortly after their arrival, are not in abandonment and neglect their
wives and children; only way of how useful stimulus for reform arises as soon as possible,
and establish, as would happen under such a sure guarantee.

Results of this simple plan would be the most advantageous and satisfactory to the administration
justice and happiness of those countries.

11.o The endowment of the three designated classes or correjidores mayors, although equals does
not seem fair, it should not keep large disproportion, because being equal homework and assignments
from your primary school, there will be no more difference in your work more or less the population
of their districts, which have a separate compensation, as for all, as told in the next paragraph.
So, then, can survive with decency the mayors of entry, with an annual
salary of 1200 pesos fuertes, the ascent in 1500, and the term to
1800, means no other fees or ovenciones as said on the 7th number

12th
The compensation indicated above shall be effected by a payment of
half percent or at most one, on tax revenue or perceive to be under
his charge.

Between that this payment amount and the salary stated, is surely not serious to the Treasury
of any Thus, because both assignments together, they fall not nearly in the most of the provinces
what we now perceive to have the mayors and correjidores not administer justice, because for most
good wishes that they assume, their ignorance of legal formulas and their occupations do not
permit commercial.

13.o That is also reached for removing all privileges of such heinous
Indians, as opposed to the march of prosperity, as repugnant to reason,
because if your Orijen might be good, so do not venture, are in the
extreme and harmful, and thus, the constitutional law for those countries
should be sympathetic to and govern rejirse it to all the Islanders,
that is, that before the law all are equal, that all are subject to
her, bound her to all compliance and enforcement, without distinction
of caste or color, European Spanish, black and white, Chinese, and
mestizos, Indians and mulattos many breeds are known to settlement
in the Islands, all have to rely on the same law, as well as dependent
and part of the same nation: only the military courts to deal with
faults service, subordination and discipline, was to be the only exception,
but beyond this the military should be tried for common crimes and
in their lawsuits, as well as any other city, and by the same law.

Any distinction in it, any privilege, it is more a violation of the law generals, and should
not be granted to anyone for any reason or cause. In good time to be rewarded with generosity
and even the unique and extraordinary lavishly services can be provided in critical circumstances
and developments in science or useful discoveries in agriculture, industry and navigation,
but never rewarded with violation of the law, and these awards are purely personal, and with
death fenezcan the keeper. In short, one law, one jurisdiction, and a single authority that
will judge by more brief formalities that point, is the only way to pave the way for justice
is administered promptly and respected. To simplify as much as possible those inveterate and ancient
rituals of the trials, which serve more to obscure the truth, to find it and know that it's right
for everyone, and that lawyers sufficiency accredited, competency and integrity known are those
who occupy these places, which extinguishes previlejio all out and disappear from the Forum
to those powers of jurisdiction and with simplicity, clarity and brevity in the formulas of prosecution
or substantiation, can not fail to touch the most eSCelente results, and considerable advantages
to the line and prompt administration of justice.

Admitted to his generals the proposed reform plan, or one that can assume this that as the present
the advantages and economies have on there, it seems appropriate by conclusion of this line,
divided into the three different governments point scale, Fixed or mayors in the Philippines
for appropriate uses. Has been named the Governments word, because some provinces have military
governor, and it seems appropriate so leave them to reward merit and honest services of former
military and who have provided in those countries, so, therefore, seems comfortable and appropriate
division of the provinces Philippines, the following classification:

Military governments.

For leaders.

Cavite. Zamboanga. Marianas Islands.

For junior.

Batanes Islands.

Courts of entry.

Zambales. Batangas.

    Cagayan [14].

        Camarines
        Norte. Nueva
        Ecija. Mindoro.

    Leyte. Negros Island.

        Calamianes.

Justices of the promotion.

Laguna de Bay. Tayabas.

Bulacan. Batangas. Capistrano. Antique. Zebu. Caraga.

Justices of the term.

Tondo [15]. Pampanga. Pangasinan. Ilocos Sur. Ilocos Norte. Camarines Sur. Albay. Misamris. Iloylo.

REMARKS.

1.a
The court must Cagayan collectorate separable from the factory or snuff, and name the Collector
factor to government fixed salary, or with a reasonable percentage, since according to plant that
is, is astonishing: it is scandalous that a mayor to collect this fee collector of snuff, count
the excessive endowment enjoyed, that the stocks of snuff for Spain extraordinary rise; exceeds
twelve thousand dollars annually which took the mayor to let to be lately. This is a monstrosity
that demands rapid reform, because it repeats is scandalous that a very junior employee as is
the collector of snuff mayor, is level in salary with the captain general of the Islands, and
enjoy twice, even three greater than the higher authorities of these islands, such as the
mayor, regent, judges, chief accountant, and public finance ministers in the Philippines,
etc. The economy the expenses of the treasury and good administration call this reform, I have understood
that something has been said, but good results are ignored, if it has been.

2.a The military government of Cavite harbor and marina, it should be reduced to purely military
and the deputy chief justice of the tax collector must be literate,
as in the other provinces, and this be placed in the class of the
climb.

May 3rd so this military government, as the Marianas Islands, the Zamboanga, and the Batanes Islands,
should be to reward the meritorious services of military Islands have served at least ten years,
and the other qualities that are deemed appropriate, must be provided by the government, upon the
recommendation of the captain general of the Philippines when Vaquer, they must be jobs for
life, unless, giving cause and justified, deserving be separated after trial, in which case,
besides the deprivation of employment, wages and honors, would suffer the penalties that would place
in law, and according to the seriousness of the cause because they
proceed against them, judging them according to law.

In the Mariana Islands and Zamboanga should be a consultant.

4.a last. As counsel to the judges responsible for the tax revenue paid by Indians, shall be
arranged in separate provisions of securities class and how should rendered by this commission,
and methodically simplify the system of accounts annually must pay the money they raise, because
the method is seen to account for his administration the mayors and correjidores the end and
cease its commission, is harmful and wasteful of public funds, stakeholders, and to the proper administration
of Justice: clear and annual accounts is the best way to shield and
good administration state funds, and if he were another means safer,
this should be the one to be adopted.

§. VI.

COURT OF GOODS AND HEIRS OF DECEASED Ultramarines.

In dealing with the charges against the ministers of the audience, we have left to talk court in
a separate paragraph of goods of the dead, and before concluding this first part, is the most appropriate
place to deal with this agency or branch of the judiciary.

The establishment of this court is of great authority and importance, and as such we set and
protect the laws of the Indies [16] and many subsequent royal decrees, so that conserving and improve
its plant under given rules, spread the knowledge of its affairs ministers of the audience, and put
them in the first instance under the inspection of the same professional judges, who come to
the exigencies required by law [17], and with restrictions as deemed and guarantees that they
can not abuse his ministry even if they want, or distract one such real estates, should be
the main basis of this reform, according to justice very and public convenience. This court
has a box in the same place, to remain and guard public funding of state [18], and it places
the court on the remaining liquid probate before it by right.

There is a book for your account and reason, which runs to by finance offices [19], which recorded
revenues and expenditures that occur and not without that box existence of an entity. Some
of the quantities the form have many years of deposit, otherwise it is not the case that a
court deposit box.

The Government must take some step to ensure that they had some time to such investment funds
in a profitable, and it being adjudged certain accounts to circulation saliesen the funds, it
was from afar at the hands of owners, or the state if they do not exist: the effect could be
available to finance the Manila office forms and send these forms back circumstances on state funds
that exist in housing, date admitted, and estates to whom they belong, with the names of those
who left, for all This consists of the seats in his book. The court should send another note
of the names people who left these goods, when they went to the Islands, representation or category
and that had led to his death, village or province of its nature,
and other timely news, and that the papers of the deceased or information
that should practiced his death, are easy to give his time, and today
the cars Probate and papers must be held by the defender or having
the court or in the file.

This news should be published annually in the Government Gazette and other newspapers two or three
times a year, at different times, only way to know if there are no heirs or afar to such property,
if any, that may seek to use their right and justify it to him court, that if they hand over their
inheritance. These funds would come to Spain would make the fortunes of many families, and
the nation would increase their wealth. Deserves consideration In that regard, and more knowing
that the funds of the box are not minor. Continue as now are, is the flow of the miser who buries
him not to steal it, but that neither enjoy it or leave it enjoys,
is to have buried a treasure that can produce, but opposes its production
to the state in which it has of oppression and captivity