 

CAP. XXXII. Of how we got the HEART of the deer.

In the town where we got the Efmeraldas, gave Dorantes over feifcientos HEART Deer open, they
have great abundance for fu fiempre maintenance, i by efto pufimos you name, the People of the HEART,
i for him is the entrance to many provinces, that eftàn à la Mar del Sur; i fi whom they are to
bufcar, for here does not fit, lose faith; COFTA because no Corn, i eat dust Bledo, Straw i,
i PEFC, which take the Ocean with BALF, because not reach Canoas. The women cover with Yerva
verguenças fus, i Paja. People mui is timid, i Trift. We believe that about COFTA, by way of those
People who nofotros Trux, ai more than a thousand leagues of land populated, i have a lot of maintenance,
because fiembran three times in the year Frifoles, i Corn. Deer Ai three ways, those of vna
of them fon sizes as Caftilla Steers: ai CAFAS of afiento, called Buhi, i have Yerva, i efto
is VNOs trees, the size of Mançanos, i is not get over menefter Fruit, i vntar Arrow with her fine
i have fruit, break vna Rama, i with Milk who have made it mefmo. Ai eftos many trees, which
ponçoñofos fon so that fi mash Sheets of it, i the laban in some water close to him, all the
deer, i qualefquier other Animals that drink it, then rebientan. In Pueblo EFTE eftuvimos three
days, i day VNA alli eftaba other in the many water qual took us that long because no crefciò Rio
vn you were unsuccessful in pafar, i fortnight we stopped there. In EFTE time he saw the neck
Caftillo Indian vn vna Efpada Evilleta of girdle of, i in her shoe nail cofido vn: tomòfela,
i preguntamosle that crow was that? i dixeronnos that havia come from Heaven. Preguntamosle
more, which who t?ída havia there? i refpondieron that men who wore beards VNOs as nofotros, which
come from Heaven havia, i arrived at that river, bringing horses i, i Lances Efpadas i, i havia
speared that two of them as much as i difimuladamente that they were unsuccessful in wonder, què
havia faith made those men? i refpondieronnos that faith havia gone to the sea, and that Lancer got vnder
the Water, i havia faith they also put on vnder, i defpues that saw them go top, the Sun Ada
puefta walked many lands, i all defpoblada find, because she went huiendo Denizens of the Sierras,
so OFAR CAFAS have, or till, for fear of the Chriftianos. Crow was that we had great laftima
mui, Earth watch mui fertile hermofa i mui, mui full of water i, i de Rios, i see the places
defpoblados, i burnt the people so skinny i, i ill, flight, i efcondida all, i like no fembraban,
so hungry, faith had with Cortec Tree, i estate. Of hunger efta à part nofotros reach around EFTE
road because they could provide us ill, eftando defventurados so that parefcia who wanted faith
to die. Blankets Truxeronnos of which havia efcondido by Chriftianos, dieronnoslas i: i still
contaronnos as at other times gone havia Chriftianos by the Earth, i havia deftruìdo, i burned
Peoples, i carried half of Men, all the women i, i guys, i fus the hands that have faith havia
efcapar, went huiendo. As viam so dismayed, so OFAR stop anywhere, i neither wanted, nor could fembrar,
or tilling the earth, before some of dexarfe eftaban die, i had it better than efto that fer
efperar treated with such cruelty, as hafta there, i moftraban grandifimo nofotros pleasure,
but feared that those who had arrived the border with Chriftianos, i war with them, we havia
of abuse, i make pagafemos, Chriftianos against what they were doing. But as God was fervent Nueftro
Lord bring us hafta them comenençaronnos to fear, i abide, as pafados, i even something more,
that there is little wonder: where faith sees clearly that all eftas People, attracted to fer Chriftianos
fer à i à Mageftad obedience of Imperial, has de fer taken with good treatment, that way i mui ETFE
is true, i other does not. Eftos Village took us to VN, which EFTA in vn Sierra vna knife, i have
faith in him by large fubir afpereça: i here, we found many people, that eftaba board, collected,
for fear of the Chriftianos. Mui Recibieronnos well, i dierronos quanto had, i dieronnos more than
two thousand loads of corn, which gave those mammals, i hungry, you hafta havia brought us there, i
other day from there four Menfageros defpachamos the Earth, as acoftumbrabamos do, so llamafen,
i convocafen People all over that pudiefen; à vn Pueblo, efta three days there, i made efto, another
day we left With all the people, that there eftaba: i fiempre Hallab raftro, havia where i stayed
Final Chriftianos, i came across nueftros à Menfageros noon, they told us that no havia found
People, who all walked the efcondidos Montes, huiendo because Chriftianos not matafen, i hiciefen
Efclavos: the night i havia vifto pafada the Chriftianos, eftando them behind of VNOs trees, watching
what they did, i saw how many Indians had in Chains: i of faith efto nofotros altered that came,
i some faith they returned, to avifo the Earth, and came Chriftianos, many more do i efto, do not
fi nofotros Dixer non hiciefen or tuviefen fear: i with faith efto afeguraron, i rejoiced greatly.
Nofotros Indians came then with a hundred leagues away, i we could not stop them that faith bolviefen
fus à CAFAS; i by afegurarlos, slept there that night, another day i walk, i slept on the road
figuiente i the day, those who havia EMBI by Menfageros, led us where they havia vifto the
Chriftianos; i arrived Vifperas time, it became clear, havia told the truth that i know people
who was on horseback, by Eftacas in Horses that havia eftado tied. Defde here, whose faith called
the Rio de Petutàn, hafta the Rio de Guzman Diego where he can haver hafta him where fupimos
of Chriftianos defde, eighty leagues: i defde the people there where we took the waters, twelve
leagues; i defde there, hafta la Mar del Sur, havia twelve leagues. Efta across Earth, where reach
Sierras, we Gold mueftras great, i Alcohol, iron, copper, other metals i. Where the CAFAS eftàn of
afiento is hot, therefore, that makes great heat in January. Acia Defde there noon, Land that
is defpoblada, hafta the North Sea, is defaftrada mui, i poor, where pafamos great, i unbelieveable
hunger that i live for that land, i walk, is crudelifima People, i mui bad inclination, i coftumbres.
The Indians, who have Cafa of breath, i the back, CAFOs are no Gold, Silver i, nor are they
able to haver advantage.

CAP. XXXIII. As we saw in Chriftianos raftro.

We saw raftro Defpues Chriftianos clear, i understood, how close eftabamos of them God we thank you
very much Nueftro Lord, for loving us so facar of Trift, i mammal captivity; i efto pleasure that
paired against, judge each VNO, when penfare at that time Eftuvimos Earth, the dangers i, i work
because pafamos.

That night I prayed to WNV my Companions Chriftianos fuefe after
that went by where were leaving Earth nofotros afegurada, i havia
three days' journey.

They were hico bad faith efto, efcufandofe by canfancio, i work i WNV although each of them could
do better than I, more fer tough, i more snot, but will vifta fu, another day in the morning I took with
me to the Black, i eleven Indians, the raftro that i was, Figures Chriftianos to, I went through
three locations, havia stayed where i EFTE day I walked ten miles, tomorrow's another day i
reach four Chriftianos Horse, which refcibieron great alteration in me so eftrañamente veftido,
in company i Indians. Efpacio Eftuvieronme much time looking so stunned, I did not even speak,
nor were right to ask me anything. Yo I told them that I llevafen where Captain eftaba fu:
i afi there were half a mile from where eftaba Diego de Alcaraz, who was the Captain, i defpues
of haverlo talked, he told me that there eftaba mui lost because havia many days that no havia
Indians have taken, i havia no where to go, because among them began to haver necefidad, i hunger dixe
I like Gone were Dorantes, i Caftillo that ten leagues eftaban there, with many people who brought
us havia i EMBI then three of horse, i fifty Indians, of what they brought: i the Black bolviò
with them to guide them, i I remained there, i asked, I Teftimonio Dief by Year, Month, i, i
Day, who arrived there havia, i the way they came, i did amphi. Rio De ETFE, hafta Chriftianos
the People of that faith called Sant Miguel, who is of the Governacion of the Province, who say
New Galicia ai thirty leagues.

CAP. XXXIV. How EMBI by Chriftianos.

Pafados five days, Andrés Dorantes, i Alonfo of Caftillo with which havia gone for them, i
brought over feifcientas Configo Perfonas, who were from that village, that Havia Chriftianos
fubir Mount fact, i went efcondidos the Earth, which i hafta havia nofotros there to come,
the facado havia de los Montes, I awarded the Chriftianos, i havia
defpedido them all the other people, which brought havia hafta there,
i come where I eftaba, Alcaraz begged me, they call the People embiafemos
Peoples, which eftàn à vera del Rio, who went by the Forestry afcondidos
Earth mandafemos them that i truxefen eating, although it was not
menefter efto because they had care fiempre bring all what they could,
then i EMBI Menfageros nueftros à llamafen that, i came feifcientas
Perfonas, they brought us all the corn to reach, i VNAs they brought
in pots covered with mud, in which the buried havia, i efcondido,
i they brought us everything but they had, but nofotros Quifa not
take it all, fine food, i gave everything else to Chriftianos, to
each other as repartiefen; i pafamos efto defpues of many, i big quarrels
with them because we wanted to make the Indians traìmos Efclavos;
i with ETFE anger, the breaking we left many Turquefcos Arcos, which
he had, many Çurrones i, i Arrows, i including five in the Efmeraldas,
faith not remember them, i amphi we lost.

We gave Vaca Chriftianos many blankets, i other mastheads that brought:
Vimon with the Indians in much work, because faith bolviefen fus à
CAFAS, i faith afegurafen, i fembrafen fu Corn.

They did not want fine go with nofotros, hafta dexarnos as acoftumbraban with other Indians,
because faith bolviefen fi In order to efto, feared that faith would die, who to go with nofotros
not afraid of Chriftianos, fus or Lancaster. At the efto Chriftianos pefaba them, i did, that
they dixefe Language fu, that we were of them nofotros mifmos, i havia we lost many times havia,
i we were Of little strong, i value, i that they were the lords of this land, whom havia of obedefcer,
i fervid. But all efto the Indians had in mui little or nothingness of what they they said: VNOs
before others, talked with eachother, saying that the Chriftianos lying, because nofotros Falia
forth from the sun, i put them where faith: i that the Fanabe nofotros sick, i killed them
orphans who eftaban: i that we came defnudos nofotros, i defcalços, they veftidos i, i in Horses,
Lance i: i that we did not covetousness nofotros any crow, but every quanto gave us, then give
Tornabe, we remained with nothing i, i the others had no other purpose, steal all quanto were
fine, i never gave anything to anyone, i nueftras relatively efta all mastheads, the encarefcian
i instead of the other; i afi refpondieron them into the language of the Chriftianos, i did
it mifmo faber other, by vna Language, that among these havia, whom we understood, i call those
who vfan Primahaitu propria (which is to say Vafcongados) the qual more than four hundred
Leagues from which we came, we found vfada including haver order one for all those Lands. Finally
he could never wipe out the Indians believe, we were on the other Chriftianos, i with hard work,
i importunity the fus à Bolvar hecimos CAFAS, i sent them that faith afegurafen, i afentafen fus
Peoples fembrafen i, i labrafen Earth, which eftaba defpoblada eftàr Monte ia mui full, so the qual
culprit is the best in eftas Indies quantas ai, i most fertile i abundofa of Maintenance, i fiembran
three times in the year. He has many fruit, i mui hermofos Rios, i mui good many waters. Ai
mueftras great, i Final Gold Mine, i Plata People mui it is well equipped: Firvida to Chriftianos
(which fon friend) mui goodwill. Mui difpueftos are much more than those in Mexico, i finally,
is Earth lacks any crow, for fer mui good. Defpedidos the Indians, they told us, they would
do what we sent, i afentarian Peoples fus, fi the Chriftianos the dexaban; i afi I tell you, i mui
asserted by some, that fi does not do so, because of the atmosphere Chriftianos.

Defpues that hovimos mailed to the Indians at peace, i regraciadoles work with nofotros havia
pafado, the EMBI us Chriftianos (vnder caution) à vn Cebreros, Mayor, i with the other two.
And when they took us through the mountains, i defpoblados, and away from the converfacion
of the Indians, because i Vief or entendiefemos what actually did: where parefce quanto deceive
the penfamientos faith of men, that they were walking bufcar nofotros freedom Quando i penfabamos
that we had, so fucediò the contrary, because they had agreed to go to give the Indians embiabamos,
afegurados, i peace, i amphi as Penfed, did: Montes llevaronnos for those two days, so water,
lost, i end road, all i Penfed perefcer of fed, i drowned her faith we Fiete Men, i have many
friends, that Chriftianos brought config, could not hafta get another day at noon, where we found
that night Water nofotros i i walk with them twenty-five leagues, little more, or less, i finally
vn individuals go to the Peace People of Indian, i the Mayor that took us there I leave us,
i stepped forward other three leagues Village VII, whose faith called Culiacan, where Melchior eftaba
Diaz, Mayor Maior, i Captain of that Province.

CAP. XXXV. Of how the Mayor Maior refcibiò us good night we arrived.

As Mayor of nueftra Maior was avifado falida, i come, then left that night, eftabamos nofotros
where i came, i cry a lot with nofotros, giving praise to God Nueftro Lord vfado molested for
so much mifericordia with nofotros, i speaks, i mui is good, i from
the Governor Nuño de Guzman, i got on, we ofrefciò everything I had,
i could i moftrò much fentimiento of bad reception, i treatment, which
Alcaraz, i found the other havia; i had indeed that the faith was
there fi, faith so that nofotros efcufara, i with Indian hico faith;
i pafada that night, another day we left, i asked the Mayor Maior
us much, we detuviefemos there, i would we do that in efto fervicio
mui great God, I to V. Mag because the Earth eftaba defpoblada, so
labrarfe, i all deftruìda mui, i walked Indians efcondidos, i escaped
through the mountains, so do want to come in fus afiento Peoples,
i that embiafemos à the call, i will mandafemos, from God, and V.
Mag that viniefen, i poblafen on the plain, i labrafen Earth.

A efto nofotros parefciò we put in dificultofo mui Indeed, because none of the Indian traìmos
nueftros, or the leaf we accompany, i understand eftas mastheads. Finally venturing efto two
Indians who brought the captives there, mifmos were of the earth, i havia eftos found faith with Chriftianos,
when first come to them, i saw the people who accompanied us, i fupieron lot of them authority,
i domain, all lands that brought havia, i had, i Wonderland that havia fact, i havia curing the
sick, many mastheads i, i with Indian eftos People's rule others, who together fuefen, i llamafen
the Indians, who eftaban by Ranges Mayor, i Petaan those of Rio, where they found the Chriftianos
havia, i that dixefen them that viniefen à nofotros because they wanted to talk, i for fuefen
feguros, i viniefen other, we gave vn nofotros Calabaçon of which he had in his hands (which was
principal nueftra infignia, i mueftra high eftado) i with ETFE they were, i walked Fiete days
over there, i the order they came, they brought i Configo three Lords of which eftaban Mayors
for the Sierras, bringing fifteen men, they brought us accounts i, i Turquefas, i Plumas, i
the Menfageros they told us that no havia found the natives of Rio where falido havia because the
havia Chriftianos done it again flee to the mountains, i the Melchior
Diaz said to the language, that part will hablafe nueftra those Indians,
i dixefe them as came from God, that EFTA in Heaven, i walked to the
World havia many years, All People saying that havia found that creiefen
in God, and what firviefen because was Lord of all mastheads quantas
havia in the world, i was the reward, i paid the good, i life imprisonment
the wicked fire, i that when the good die, take them to Heaven, where
no one died, or were hungry or cold, or fed, or any other necefidad,
the maior fine glory, that faith could Penfed, i that he does not
want to believe, nor obedefcer fus Commandments, threw them vnder
the earth, in the company of Hell, i large fire qual havia the faith
never finishing, fine fiempre tormented, that beyond the efto i, fi
fer quifiefen Chriftianos them, i fervid God, the way they mandafemos,
that Brothers Chriftianos Terni them, i would treat mui well, i would
send nofotros, hiciefen they do not no anger, nor fus facafen of Lands,
fine large fuefen Friends fuios: more than fi efto quifiefen not do,
they would try mui Chriftianos wrong, i faith Efclavos lead to other
lands.

A efto refpondieron to the language, they mui fairs Chriftianos good,
i fervirian to God we worship i asked, i facrificaban, i à who asked
for the Water for Maìçales fus, i la falud for them?

Refpondieron that VN Man that eftaba in Heaven. Preguntamosles, as a faith called? And they
said, that Aguar, i who believed, havia raised the entire world, i the tops of it. Tornamosles questions,
as fabian efto? And refpondieron that fus Parents, Grandparents faith what havia i said, it had
many times efto news, i fabian, that water, i all good mastheads that the EMBI. Nofotros diximos
them which one they were saying, nofotros we called him God, and that it llamafen amphi them,
it firviefen i, i adorafen as Mandab, i faith they would find it rather mui. Refpondieron,
mui had everything provided, afi i that they would do, i mandamosles that baxafen of Saws,
i viniefen feguros, i alone, i poblafen whole earth, i hiciefen CAFAS fus, i that hiciefen including
vna to God, and the entry pufiefen vna Cruz, as we had there, i that when there's Chriftianos
viniefen, the faliefen à Cruces refcebir with hands, Arches end, i end Armas, i the fus à llevafen
CAFAS, i will eat Dief of what they had, by efta i would do them so badly before fus fairs Friends;
i them they said that it amphi nofotros would do what we sent as: i, Captain gave Mantas, i
mui treated well, i afi faith they returned, carrying two, eftaban captivity, i havia Menfageros
gone by. It went Efto PREFERENCES of Efcrivano in which there had, i many Teftigos.

CAP. XXXVI. How do Iglefias hecimos in that Land.

As the Indians faith they returned, all of that Province, who were Friends of the Chriftianos, and
learned of nofotros, came to see us, they brought us accounts i, i Feathers; i nofotros we
send that hiciefen Iglefias, i pufiefen Cruces in them, because then hafta havia not done, i
hecimos bring the children of the lady, i baptiçarlos; i Litigation hico then Captain omenage
God, not to do, or any entry confentir do, or take Efclavo the Earth, i People, which nofotros
afegurado havia, i would keep that efto, i met, hafta that Mageftad fu, i the Governor Nuño de
Guzman, or in fu name Viforrei proveiefen as more fuefe fervicio of God fu i baptize Mag i
defpues of Children we departed for the town of San Miguel, where Indians came as we arrived, which
we were told, as many people came down from the Sierras, i populated on the plain, i to Iglefias,
i Cruces, i havia everything I commanded you: i each day had new faith was as efto doing, I meet more
fully, i pafados fifteen days, that there aviamos eftado, arrived Alcaraz with Chriftianos that
havia been in that entry, I told the captain, as were downloaded from the Sierra Indians, i havia
village on the plain, i havia found Peoples with many people, that first eftaban defpoblados,
i defiertos, i that the Indians were falieron Cruces to receive with the hands, i took them
to fus CAFAS, i gave them what they had, i slept with them there that night. Efpantados such
a novelty, that the Indians i les they said, as eftaban afegurados ia, he ordered them not hiciefen
wrong, i amphi defpidieron faith. Lord God Nueftro mifericordia infinite fu want, which in
the days of V. Mageftad, i below of vueftro Power, i Lordship, eftas fer people to come to truly,
i with total willingness fujetas the true Lord who created, i redeemed. What we certainly qual
afi atmosphere, i to V. Mageftad has to be the one who has to put into effect (atmosphere
not so hard to do) because two thousand leagues that traveled by land, i by the Sea in Boats,
another ten Mefes i that falidos defpues of Captiva, so we walked the Earth stop, we found Sacrifices
or Idolatry. In EFTE VNA Mar travefamos time to another, i on the news that diligently reach
out to understand the other COFTA vna, so width can haver two hundred leagues i reach out to
understand, that the COFTA South Pearl ai, i much enriches, i everything better, richer i
efta near it. In the town of San Miguel eftuvimos hafta fortnight Month Maio, i stop the CAUF
of both there was because there hafta City Compoftela, where the Governor Nuño de Guzman refidia,
ai hundred leagues, i all defpobladas fon, enemies i: i ovieron nofotros go with People, in
which were twenty horse, we hafta accompanied forty leagues from there i came out with nofotros
Chriftianos feis, that brought five hundred Indians made Efclavos, i arrived in Compoftela,
Governor refcibiò us mui well, what i had gave us veftir: qual so many days I could not bring,
or We could sleep fine in the fuel: i pafados ten or twelve days, we left for Mexico, i by all the way
we were well treated by the Chriftianos, i Falia many of us see for Roads, i gave thanks to God
of underworld rid of so many dangers.