 If some
reason there was still obscured, out of reach of a friendship that - apart from a immense secret,
had none - was because Magdalena considered useless explanation or reckless. There was a sore
point between us, sometimes in doubt and others in full certainty that, like all dangerous truths,
required no clarification.

Magdalena was warned: it was impossible not to be. But since when? Perhaps from the day, breathing
an air she stirred, he felt that hot flashes were not at the temperature of our old friendship
and peaceful. The day I seemed to have the certainty of this fact, not mere belief was enough.
I wanted a test and wanted to force give me a Magdalena. I paused for a moment to reflect on that
plan that was obnoxious Evil, hateful. The besieged with thousands of leading questions. In the
case of people that we knew very thoroughly enough to understand us only half a word, but I even
added one more precise. We walked on a field littered with tricks and one more I tended to every
step. I do not know what perverse desire to besiege, oppress, to corner in the last reserve.
He wanted revenge of that first long silence imposed by shyness, then by considering more
and ultimately out of respect for mercy. That mask he wore was already three years I had become
unbearable and without hesitation pulled. I did not care that did the light between the two.
Almost wished she had a blast but to panic; As for your peace of mind, a blind and fatal indiscretion
could destroy, I had forgotten completely.

Was it a humiliating crisis, which cost me a lot of work refer you. Just suffered, so was imbued
with a fixed idea. It came in a direct sense, with the intelligence clear, closed awareness, as if it
were a fencing assault which had not more risky than love itself.

In my foolish strategy Magdalena suddenly opposed unexpected defenses. Answered to her with perfect
calm, with total lack of pretense, with nothing that could be naive damage their reputation. Gradually
rose between the two in the manner of a steel wall, a resistance, an impenetrable coldness.
I was annoyed at this new obstacle and could not overcome. I tried again to make me understand:
all intelligence had ceased. Sharpened the sentences and did not reach it. I took the rose,
the disarmed with a response unanswered, as had been done with deftly dodged an arrow to which he removed
the steely iron could hurt. The summary of his continent, his host, his loving handshakes,
your looks great, but civil and not available, total their actions admirable and exasperating,
by his firmness, by his simplicity, his wisdom, was this: "I know nothing, and if I thought
you guessed something was wrong."

Then I disappeared for a time, ashamed of myself, furious impotence when he returned to it with
better ideas and intentions of repentance, he seemed not to understand like the others had not noticed.

All
this happened in the turmoil of the great world that year lasted
until very entry and spring.

Sometimes accidents had that kind of debilitating life to surprise at fault Magdalena and take
control of a spirit so sure of himself, but that did not happen: I was almost sick with impatience. Was
no longer certain, almost, to love Magdalena, to this end the idea of ??our antagonism - which
forced me to see it as an adversary, - substituting to any other emotion and filled my heart
of evil passions. There are days in summer, dusty nebulous, where sunlight is white and cloudy evening on the side
of the North, closely resemble that violent burning period as soon as ice cream, which I to believe that
my passion for Magdalena going to die in the most sad, for the rebound.

A few weeks ago and not seen. I had spent my rancor engulfed in work.
Expected her to give me the signal to reappear.

Once he had found Mr. De Nièvre and told me: "What is yours?" Or "no longer sees you." Any such
two formulas - can not remember what it was used - was surrounded by an urgent invitation
to return. Even I held a few days, but such removal was a negative vein I could go on indefinitely
without resolving anything critical. I finally decided to force the issue. I ran home from Magdalena:
I was alone. I went quickly without having formed a definite idea of what was going to say or do,
but formally decided to break that ice armor and see if she still lived below the heart of my old friend.

The
cabinet met in particular - where there was more luxury than flowers, - dressed Very simply,
embroidering sitting near a veladorcito. Was serious, his eyes were red as if he had not slept
the night before or had been crying a few minutes before reaching me.

He looked peaceful seclusion that was itself often in moments distraction that it revived the
schoolgirl of the past. With her modest dress, surrounded by flowers, open windows on the trees, would
have said he was in his Ormesson garden.

That complete transfiguration, that attitude of sadness, submissive, half expired, say well,
I took all desire to succeed and gave ground suddenly with all my courage.

- I've fallen in guilt, for you - I said - and I come to apologize.

- Guilty?

What excuse? - Exclaimed, trying to recover from the surprise.

- Yes, I'm mad, cruel and lonely friend comes to get to their feet and beg forgiveness ...

-
But what I have to forgive? - Added a little frightened by that warm
invasion in the quiet of his retirement.

- My past conduct, everything
I've done everything I've said, with the intention stupid to hurt you.

She had regained her calm.

- Can you imagine things that do not exist or at least it is minor errors which I remember no more
the day you recognize that you also forget. Do you know what has been His only mistake? Of abandoning
the past month.

For about a month now - he said, not hiding which looked at the dates - we missed a night telling
you until tomorrow to say goodbye.

- And I have not, it's true,
but that is not what I acknowledge with regret, not what I accused
fatally ...

- You're welcome! - She interrupted imperiously .-- And
since then - went away, - what has become of you?

What have you done?

- Many things and very little depends on the outcome.

- What next?

-
That's it - I wanted to do the same to her and cut the conversation
where I desirable.

They spent a few moments of awkward silence and then Magdalena began
to speak in a tone quite natural and very sweet.

- Do you have a
thankless and difficult character - he said .-- It is hard to understand
you and further help him.

When you want to encourage, sustain, sometimes pity, you are asked and you are locked in the
strictest confidence.

- What do you say, unless it be that one in whom you trust, is not capable of causing surprise to
anyone and I fear that disappoint the hopes of his good friends?

-
Why disappoint the hopes of good friends who just wish for you a position
it deserves? - Magdalena went quiet and, seeing that we stood in a
field it seemed much safer.

- Well, for one simple reason: because
nothing covet.

- And the ardor for the work that grips to the best
of you ...

- Dura very little, is a fire that flares up extremely
quickly and then dies.

Subsist, I think, some years yet, until the illusion vanishes when youth go and see I clear
it is up to get it over with such scams.

Then take the one life I block, dilletantismo nice life, in some corner of the province to
which no I come neither stimulating nor remorse in Paris, devoting himself to admire the talent
others, that should suffice, after all, for, to occupy the leisure
of a modest man who does not is silly.

- What you just said is unsustainable
- he exclaimed with great vivacity .-- Do you like in tormenting those
who believe ... and lies you ...

- Nothing is more certain, I swear.

Like I said before, not long ago that I was attracted, not by the
idea of ??being someone who seemed no practical sense, but together
by the desire to produce something, the only excuse, in my view, our
miserable existence.

I said and tried to do it.

But never with a view to take advantage of it and my dignity man, neither my taste nor my vanity, or
others or myself. Be no purpose the expelling of my brain something that bothers me.

Smiled at the curious and commonplace explanation I gave a noble enough phenomenon.

- What man is so unique you with your paradoxes! The subtlety you all to end to change the meaning
of words and the value of ideas.

Halagábame belief of a soul you were better organized than many other and more good, on several
counts. He also believed, weak-willed, but endowed with a tendency
for inspiration.

And now is that should you lack the will and becomes the inspiration in simple exorcism.

- You call things by the name you want - I said, and begged that we change the subject.

Change of discussion was not possible, had to return to the starting point or continue. Le seemed
safer and I think that I left without answering more than one sentence:
"Why?"

- Speaking on this occasion, as Oliver, and yet no one seems
to him less you.

- Do you agree? - I passionately looking to dominate
again - do you really do you think we so different?

Well, I think, by contrast, seem to us a lot.

Obey the one and the other, only blindly what we love, what we love is, both for him and for
me, impossible or nearly so, do, is a chimera, or represents forbidden. This makes following
along very opposite, we find a day in the same point, cowed and "no family" - I added, using the
phrase "without family" instead of a much clearer that came to my lips.

Magdalena's eyes were fixed on the embroidery, but nailed the needle
at random, without paying attention.

The expression on his face had changed, the continent once again, subdued and disarmed me softened
to the point of making me forget the object of my visit.

- You would understand it - he said with some embarrassment .-- There
is something for everyone, believe me ... (Hesitating some choice
of words) a difficult time in which self-doubt and even of others.

What matters then is to clarify the question and make a decision. Sometimes the heart needs
to say "I want to." At least I suppose what happened to me and once - continued, even more hesitant
about a memory that we both brought to mind the story of his marriage .-- They say a turn of the
century marquise sought that by force of will could avoid death. Perhaps if he died was because
he was distracted. There are so many accidents that are presumed to be involuntary, who knows
if that is not depends largely on the desire to be happy! ...

- God will hear, my dear Magdalena - said, using an expression that was not reused Three years ago.

Uttering
these last words I got arrested a tenderness that owned to hide. The movement I made was so
fast, so unexpected, so passionately said to me accent, in itself
very decisive and that Magdalena felt he reached his heart and moved
him and pale.

I heard in the depths of his chest as an anguished cry that painful expired on his lips.

Often had I wondered what would happen if, for getting rid of the load too heavy crushing me, just
as if my friend could hear indulgently Magdalena the declaration of a feeling he was referring
to the Countess of Nièvre, told her he loved her. I pictured the scene of this very serious
explanation. The supposed alone in listening state and in a situation that precluded any danger.
Spoke and without preamble, frankly, no subterfuge, no talk, and with the same frankness that
if it were a confident very close from my youth, I refer the story of my passion, born of
a friendship child suddenly changed into love.

The explained how a series of transitions invincible I had driven slowly from indifference to
attraction, the fear of bondage, of nostalgia in the absence of the
need to never separate from it, the vision I was going to lose the
certainty that he adored her, the desire for peace of mind to lie
In short, the silence will always irresistible urge to confess everything
and to ask forgiveness later.

He said she had resisted, fought, who had suffered greatly: my ways was the best witness. Not exaggerating
anything, quite the contrary, did nothing but show half the picture of my pains to convince
her best put my words as and was sincere. He said, in a word, he loved her desperately, in other
words it did not expect more than the acquittal of my weaknesses that they themselves had penance
and piety for those evils irremediable.

So great was my confidence in the goodness of Magdalena, the idea of ??such a confession me seemed
more natural in the midst of the crazy ideas or guilty that beset me.

One appeared then - or at least I liked her, - truly sad and sorrowful, but not angry, listening
to the pity of a friend powerless to comfort and elevation of spirit and forbearance, ready
to sympathize with those great evils indeed hopeless. And, strange to say! the thought of
being understood, always real terror I had set before, I did not cause even the slightest pregnancy
the present. Work would cost me explain to you how it was possible that such purpose, absurd
bold, fit in my mind as I have put natural timidity to you in evidence, but many tests were over
by seasoned. No longer trembled before Magdalena, least scary as in other times, I seemed to be
disappearing all irresolution since blatantly going after the truth.

I had a moment of supreme anguish during which the idea of ??ending once and attacked me again,
as strong and irresistible temptation than ever. I thought that this had been and better opportunity
ever presented to me. We were alone, the chance will be placed exactly in the position he was
elected. Half of the confession was already done.

One and again we reached a level of emotion that put us in fitness a lot like me dare and hear
all of it. I did not say one word, to break that awful bolt I strangled
silence every time he thought of it.

Sought only a formula, opening sentence: I was very calm, at least so it seemed to be, until
it seemed that my face did not reflect too the extraordinary controversy that remained within
me. Going to talk time, to give me more courage, I raised my eyes and looked at Magdalena.