 Did not
is this enough reward for our efforts? If we have not been possible, if we must also be possible
to reach to achieve happiness, we think that this award will certainly of a later generation:
ours we have now, we did it!

Are we not happy in this? Let everything be fit to be in the future; and if we lose the hope
of being ourselves, we do everything possible what are our children. What better reward for
the efforts of our elders, for final effort we made? Live, therefore, convinced that idea live
perfectly attuned to the generation that preceded us was much more unfortunate, sacrificed much more than
ours. Fought longer than we have. Those who are made up completely ruined, being rich, suffered
terribly, having been born happy, and through the force of human strength, half the road of
life, sadly bled and died, and had no offset we've had, to see waving on the soil of his homeland's
flag their hopes and their dreams!

If we get it, if we could finally do it and make it a reality, why Why ask for more? I've always
said this to myself, and I have not really asked for much more. I, yes, that the right man for
pointing out to his countrymen the shortcomings of this in which they live is good and healthy,
but must do so calmly and without anger, provided heir duty of such heritage with determination
and energy, but never despair; understanding that evil is human and it can not ever untie humanity.
Because should be borne in mind that the man, considered collectively, progressing only very slowly
and advances in a manner analogous to that used to meet your vote for a French count that in the Middle
Ages, took the oath of marching to the Holy Land to walk four steps forward and three reverse
speeds, so that walking seven steps ahead just one. No faster progress of humanity. On the contrary,
I think up even more slowly; but forward to the end and that's all we can ask the Destination.
So tomorrow will certainly better than this, and we will have been worthy successors of our cause
if we live considering the current state of affairs is not as definitive, it must satisfy, but as something
temporary that we need to improve. If you believe that the political conditions this is not good,
we understand that whatever we deem them to be bad something changed and improved, and each
one from their point of view, as currently finalizing fit personal interest with the collective interest,
do everything you can to get that improvement.

In sum, if passengers of the present moment, we have at least the
ideal aspiration of considering definitive citizens of a city more
perfect, which is yet to be found, and work to found it, what will
prevent us from being happier, as a reward for that effort in the
future?

And so could conclude these reflections with I've entertained your attention, repeating but rather to
alter its meaning, a phrase that is contained in the Epistle of Paul to the Hebrews: "We have
here indeed a permanent residence, permanent, is a future residence, a future city, which we
seek. " 'Non hic manentem habemus civitatem 2, inquirimus futuram thirst! ".

Marti, Federico Uhrbach

Le Figaro, November 30, 1910

Marti

At his marble

Manuel Sanguily,
big heart and mind.

                  

                                      

                            Alma, shield with the shield miracle of rhyme pain and despair that
bloom in your pit when sadness evokes the vision of the war, fruitful
and vigorous bud break the dream with the dazzling glory of the daring
and heroic effort 5 and the fleeting glare of the tragic legend.

                      

             Yes in the fog of memory lasts wistful desolate
          memory on a flight of bitterness reconstructs the
          bloody bloom in your grief, does not disturb you cry
          endless stream 10 the chant of immeasurable toll
          rising of the country, in the pious candid grace of a flight.

If
          the sediment inextinto painful the struggle deceptive illusions simulating
sweet surrender pretend, soul, make your misery consolations, 15 claim
yields the peaceful sacred truce, the sad brooding on the tragedy
of your tears, and assists your wreath to pay homage to exalt consecrations.

How

             radiant in the distant perspective of the past, as
          a lamp that emerges from a cloudy waves 20 stands
          in the pale light of dusk, the figure of the seer Apostolic
          Messenger of love and justice, with his face star and the spell
          of his genius that chains and that dazzles!
          

             Of glory to the romantic silhouette flashes 25
          the believer that his lyricism of a poet Aduna
          with the living flame of tragic lyricism, shines like a star
          that lights the souls with the fire miracle of biblical
          doctrine, as a ray of dawn transparentations the
          abyss. 30

             
          Dreamer sublime rare breed of dreamers pursuing the long awaited
          redemption of the pain, fosca inheritance
          and sterile unhappy beings, was immaculate
          fruitful life lessons, in hopes to encourage maturity
          sad 35 and the plodding struggle to heal the scars.

             
          Prisoner lost in the shadow the dawn of life, exile
          in the unknown region beach began his ministry
          tamed adversity to temper the soul rebels blow
          drunkenness 40 caught the sun dispel the deep
          gloom who opposed his efforts to the human whirlwind.

             
          Stays tremulous cadence of his poems saved balms and
          honey, not the fierce anathemas steely spears forged
          into the fabric of his verse, 45 and in the range
          of his verse melancholy and flexible there, if it hurts, a
          sweet indefinable beg for forgiveness, and a suffering and loving
spirit if apostrophe.

             
          
          A tireless pilgrim wandering long journey was
          carried by his bold pilgrimage route 50 in the saddlebag of
          his dreams the pain of climate climate her pain was an
          incentive, nostalgic voice of encouragement, windup, transfigured,
his prophetic lament Bren in the pampas and snow from the top.

             
          
          With its persuasive influence of missionary zeal, 55 announced
          the good news lavishing on the path His grace light
          blooms early bird, and simulated in the greatness of
          his immense symbolism a radiant Nazareno of exalted enlightenment
Jordan provident and a new preaching on the banks.

             60
          
          In your voice to the soft charm of subtle inflections piety
          stroked the wounded hearts Lit as a tremolo, tremolo
          as auroras, and outer glow that radiated in clairvoyance,
          flashed as the star that guided the consciences 65 lustral the banks
of the redemptive anger.

             
          
          Champion of a glorious crusade knights who served
          the country with the cross of steel, ofreciose in
          Holocaust as a symbol and proclamation and
          fell like a lightning tower treacherous haunts, 70 reflected in the
pupil's vision of tragedy and setting a meteor Zodiac fame.

             
          
          "Martí, his life and his work"
          
          by Nestor Carbonell
          

             Pronounced sentence on February 23, 1911 at the
          Ateneo de La Habana
          
          Ladies and gentlemen, and my good friends and good companions,
          Jesus Castellanos and Max Henríquez Ureña, enthusiastic
          organizers of these beautiful LIDES of thought, I had the honor to
invite me to consume a turn in them, I consulted the mind, and I found
no issue I subdue: consulté then the heart, and found, José Martí.

                   With this beloved flag name and shield, climb the podium.

                      But I do not come here and judge to judge his personality, not as
critical letter analyzing his work spread through the air after the
trial that lowering it or exalted.

That is not my purpose: to be as difficult as thankless task, for
those who have more ambitious than mine and less fear of his knowledge
and his person.

I come here, without further authority cleaner than the loving heart of the sublime, to recall,
albeit briefly, meritorious and glorious life, life filled with infinite tenderness and bloody
martyrdoms that huge dreamy melancholy knight of all the justices, who suffered for their
country to over the years of its existence, the man can suffer, and he fell from his steed war,
never to rise again, like a poem Achilles, the tragic beauty of combat as a simple soldier fighting
for freedom, in a bright May afternoon .... I come here to remember its doctrines, its beautiful
and magnificent ideal: the Republic and for all good of all, the Republic of "eyes open" and
no secrets, the Republic equitable and hardworking wide and generous, altar of their children and
do not stand them, the Republic whose first law except love and mutual respect for all human
rights, the Republic cultured with books to learn the side of the table to win the bread, with
its temple edged Republic heroes, the Republic no cliques, no mysteries and no slander, the Republic!
and not stewardship frightened or dismal finances irritating privileges and monopolies, the
Republic real and fair was an event where the recognition and practice of true freedom. I come here
today to grow in our soil the sick manzanillo pessimism, and that would seem to be rotting
and crumbling at times the national soul, to remember him sacred, and to evoke, to ask you
all - and in you all my fellow citizens - policy less treacherous, less subtle intrigue, less ambitious,
less complicated, less ambush dark: and more pity for the faults and offenses, and more respect
for all provisions constitutional, and more honesty to reject those who are able to invite
disgrace and crime, and more purely to defend the principles patriotic and more willing to not
rub with the vile, and more courage to take them by the neck and put them where the sun will
burn and destroy them .... I come here to pay tribute unhappy in my words, the famous writer, sincere
poet, the speaker wonderful, tender and sound man, great and good, which aroused in my soul, and with
the unique harmonies of Joyant prose, the melodious trills of his verses, and the triumphal
hymn pitonisaria voice, the unquenchable love Freedom and the Beauty, the man whose head is hollow,
and whose lips are silent, as hand is already broken, the apostle and the martyr that rests
forever in the eternal pillow and in the immortal silence .... I come here at last, trembling and
awe, and grateful son and loving, to offer up my poor flowers, my flowers faded and no perfume,
my poor flowers perhaps treacherous hands snatch and tear you, considering the pain that some
Live provides the glorification of those dead whose virtues do not know, or do not want imitate
.... Yes, it is a sad thing, but the fact is, anyone who possesses a quality extraordinary,
unfortunate, no more than that, which has no: there is either one that is not bring the sadness of
another, not pay homage to a dead man who is not accompanied by malignant malignant tears or smiles.
The world is full of people who suffer with all others and win want to go through it with a stick
breaking down as they excel, and parasitic people they laugh at everything you do not understand.
But ... contempt for them envious and disdainful of office, his human pity so cruelly undercut
wrappers! Although, who knows are larger so the great land, those who have gone without bending
the knees around the world. They are foam splashing the boat and the wave that carries insurance
port, the cloud that hides the star and the shade that brings out, the dagger wounds and poisoning
and hand it sells and restores, the feeble joke that cuts and resonant ode uplifting and dignified,
the crowd that complains and flat and the people that crown and rewards, the worms that destroy
the body and flowers that grow on the graves. They are the consecration, no glory complete
without the kiss of a beautiful and without the bite of an evil no one can be called if not
downright triumphant landing on its way women face looks tender and cruel and sarcastic eyes of
men ... Ah! who give my words the strength of eagles or s wild bronco, to preach to them in
spite of sharp teeth and crawling whistles, and not by the unhappy island, but under all the
roofs of the world, the genius and the goodness of the Divine Master. But my words, weak butterflies,
just when your flight will reach you, and barely able to express the supernatural disorder
that has gripped me since I know, because I promised it is my duty to recall his life of sacrifice
and forgiveness, remembering their doctrines suffused with faith and love, say something that
is original literature and poetry, to pay my tribute admiration and deep affection the man without
blemish, although ugliness and impurities of land, gentle and kind, it is today, after fifteen
long years of missing, serene and delightful light in my brain, tenderness and kindness and wings
on my heart ... His life! What overwhelmed thinking may follow in his career of glory and pain?
Can the word human, smoke and shell, and clothing many times of the lowest passions, report such
greatness as contained in his life? José Martí was born in humble beginnings in Havana on January
28, 1853, in the house marked with No. 102 of Paula Street. Born in full colonial corruption,
Cuba as a martyr, dump all the rotten, the refuge of all the hindrances, of all the hungry and
jobless in Spain, when it was our land, farm vicious militia and sickly, stolen from the Agriculture
and Industry in his country, when was this city, kids in America today, corral loose soft and Captain
General of infertile, profiteers and imperative, when the red and yellow flag floated over
our house and its shadow Cubans were sentenced to life imprisonment and the Spanish cowardice
allowed to enrich and fatten their vices insolent when he died in poverty criollo and peninsular
walking satisfied in the carriage purchased with gold flowing from the crime, when there were more
prisons that schools, and the infamous whip snapped on the backs of men of one race so in
need of justice such as ours, when the Cuban did not submit to serve celestino the Madrid dandy who wanted
it, was serving his boldness in prison; when the native talent of the cast slept under the
boot of the tyrant frown, and the layer bullfighter on the shoulders and the rubber band on the
hat were the only passports of honor and the only cards of life, true. Martí was born then. It was
his father, Don Mariano, Spanish, and met Army sergeant and his mother, Dona Leonor Perez, daughter
of the Canaries. Saturday February 12 the same year he was born, was baptized in the church
of Santo Angel Custodio by Father Thomas Hall and Don Figueroa. Marti birth his father held
the position Police Celador, or whatever it is, had title to kill or imprison those who believe
not faithful to the motherland. But Don Mariano was an honest man but low intelligence and rude
and overbearing ways. When Marti was a year old, what taken to Spain where his parents were visiting
relatives. About ten months were Valencia, after which they returned to Havana, continuing performance
Mariano its former destination. Parents, therefore, Martí, Spanish, he was educated in the love
of Spain and absolute submission to his government. And the most ardent desire was to see them
one day to his "Pepe" - so called - the same task used in the old police. But while the man is
not the world made, but mold is made and the heat of events, Marti, a rebel from the child to
stop and detention, it was like those vigorous oaks raising his glass robust despite the vines
that wrap and worms chew on. Marti was a true genius, and geniuses like volcanoes bring her
womb made: weave themselves love and purifies the building. King was born as born a slave, but who
was born not realize it until it commands and is obeyed, or until no send him and obey. Martí,
said she brought the birth of the infinite understanding of the future. It performed a miracle:
a pigeon's egg was born an eagle rose garden in the rough lily perfume ....

In a neighborhood school, which he had forgotten he could not because his teacher owed more
than their ears were separated from the side that usually, he learned early letters. This came
out at age nine for college "San Anacleto ', which was then addressed in this capital the
cult educator Rafael Sixto Casado. It was in this school where began to stand, the first in
class and winning all the awards, which began to show that air was not what he had in his head but thought
and action. That his children, studious, Fermín Valdés Domínguez had and still has Dr. Eduardo F. Plá,
his fellow students in the classroom happy happy, amazing features and intelligence character.
And it was from that school where his father, believing it took quite some illustrated to employ
a clerk in the guardhouse. And perhaps if it had been buried there and spoiled the great man,
if Arazoza Francisco, a good friend of Don Mariano, behind of this, would not have given money
to enroll in the Secondary School, and they have been encouraged to continue their studies. They
took them to leave, however, months later harassed by the author of his day did not consider
it necessary to perform employment, or to bid for Celador, know more of what he already knew.