 Our people were ruled by
emperors, who believed the center of the world and a different divine matter to that of other beings.
The life of the nation focused on the person of the sovereign. The characters jumped higher
on the rope and did other acrobatic exercises to amuse the monarch of the Empire, then called Lilliput.
The great ambition of every Lilliputian was to get a thread color that gave the despot to cross
over the chest By way of decoration. In short, my country was subjected to parental authority but
arbitrary, and the men wore a dull, sleepy existence, irrespective of any progress. Of the
women then do not talk. Were slaves, with a hypocritical servitude masked by the selfish love
of husband and false sweetness of home.

Such was the empire of Lilliput, where a century and a half after the arrival of the first man
Mountain began the series of historical events that ended up changing their appearance.

A castaway giant who had spent some time with us had the opportunity to return to his homeland using
a boat in harmony with its size as the tide crept into our costs.

In undertaking the return journey was not alone.

A Lilliputian also left, some say that according to the giant, others, and are the most, they
assume that he hid in the huge boat with the desire to know the world of man-mountain.

This unique traveler is famous in our history. His name was Eulame. I have a colleagues at the University
to assume that Eulame was a woman, it can not be explained otherwise much intelligence and so
heroically gathered in one person. Have written several books to prove that Eulame pretended
to be a man because in those days dominated only men, and almost fully demonstrated. But I
have never fascinated by this mystery of our history. May well have
been man Enlame as those of his time believed.

A exception does not alter the rule, and acknowledge that the weak male can produce from time
to time some celebrity, without it you out of their inferiority ....

Eulame say left the land of the giants and stayed there a few years. Also this period of its
existence has given rise to many historical and critical studies.

Some say who walked by that big monster world, from fair to fair, being exhibited in circuses
and barracks as a curiosity than ever before, and that his trip helped him to understand the
various towns in which giants are divided.

Other authors argue, based on the testimony of people who tried and were able to Enlame listen
to their confidences, the bold little Lilliputian was known for the generality of giants.
He and the sailor whose boat escaped were picked up by a ship, and,
he reached the land where everything is monstrously huge, sailors
sold him a sage, and he lived in the atmosphere of a lonely scholar,
learning everything fast synthesis illustrate what the giant had searched
in books and in laboratory experiments for many years.

Nor do I decide on this issue or for some or for others. In reality, nothing is known about
the first period Eulame life that was as mysterious as the youth
of many founders religions.

Everything they say my fellow University and also what they said many earlier scholars is based
on hypotheses.

The only certainty is that Eulame returned to Lilliput, but not on a boat just like you brought to
you, Gentleman-Mountain. Across the great barrier of rocks and foam raised by our gods was, according
to the chroniclers of the time, a ship proportions immense, a true
giant ship.

A simple boat saved the wall hindrance of divine bringing to our shores to Eulame and to an
old man-mountain, dry body with a beard white, which I suppose should have been his student protector.

This
was meant to be bringing the boat to our land all inventions their world was coming packed the
huge ship, but our gods, as they love a little to the giant shook
the boundless sea with a mighty storm, and the ship crashed the barrier
of rocks and foam.

Stayed with us so helpless giant old and lacking which means you see now. Moreover, as his years
not allowed to live in a world so new to him and so lacking in the amenities needed by the elderly,
died shortly after. I suspect that the emperors the last dynasty perhaps felt uneasy about
the frequency with which they arrived at our s costs of the same size, and tried the old abruptly,
without considering that the poor had been attracted by the stories
of Eulame to establish their civilization generously between us.

His body gave little work to be annulled. It was a skeleton covered with skin nothing more, and
their bones were used as materials rich in many works of art.

Still retain University several books about him, which helped me a lot for the study of language
you speak and the knowledge of the habits of the man-mountain.

But back to Eulame. Finding himself alone, he launched his countrymen to preach the benefits
of civilization of giants. The discontent of the Empire, who were many, saw him a leader who could
replace the reigning dynasty.

The wise men listened to him as a teacher divine, and all universities were declaring his disciples.
From then dates the introduction of English in this country as secret and sacred language,
which served to understand to upper class people.

The things he did Eulame in no time! Never in our history known activity like yours. The people
could not believe it was a man equal to the others, and we had the son of the gods. To industry
of the country changed radically in a few months. Implemented between us all mechanical progress
he had seen in the world of giants. Our engineers, who until then had gone blind, always moving
in the same circle, after listening to the lessons of Eulame new
roads were open to their eyes, and ran for them, making discoveries
with a dizzying speed, inventing almost instantly what it took perhaps
long years of meditation in the country giants.

The last emperor tried to assassinate the prophet, but he possessed the strength, and thought come
time to move from words to action. He had brought the explosives from the other world and firearms.
The rich industrial supporters secretly manufactured eulamelismo war material equal to the man-mountain,
and it was enough for a thousand disciples with rifles guns and march
on the palace of the emperor so that he would flee, ending at a time
secular dynasty.

The old troops, armed with bows and spears, they broke up, cheering Eulame, receiving the first
hail of bullets from his supporters.

The regenerator was then elevated to the imperial dignity, and began the most hectic period,
more bloody and interesting to our history.

I realize that as men then ran the country's march, had the cynicism
give the name of glorious time to a period in which millions died,
being also burned many cities, which are not yet rebuilt, and torn
provinces whole.

Eulame to be in power, it was felt invested with a superhuman task.

This mission was to bring to all the nearby nations populated by beings
of our species the benefits of civilization planted by him.

Moreover, as a force available higher need to use it, just like the athlete, unable to live
peacefully without bumping into something to exercise your muscles.

Eulame irresistible troops marched against Blefuscu, the people who
for centuries had been our adversary.

It was an easy war by the great disparity between the respective arms, but those of Blefuscu
fought with the tenacity irrational History called heroism, getting killed in huge quantities.

Having
mastered this nation, the conqueror took their weapons to another, and then to another, leaving
no continent or island ceased to recognize his imperial authority. But very greatness of his
success weighed on him, ending up smash.

His generals obeyed to the law of men according to which each pupil, when viewed on high, should attack
his teacher.

It came a day when the warring warlords who ruled conquered lands by delegation Eulame revolted
against. Everything he had learned in the land of the giants confidently announced to his relatives:
new means of destruction domain was already common opponents just as he knew, it was not a demigod,
was a man like others.

And as his enemies were much more numerous, he defeated in a pitched battle at the gates of this
city, then called Mildendo, meeting then in Congress diplomat to decide their future destiny.

They did not dare to kill him because they were his disciples, but as they wanted to be free of its
presence, perpetually confined in a small island in a lonely rock and unhealthy, far from all life,
in the vicinity of the wall of rocks and foam that few dare to go.

The emperor died a few years in exile in a dark.

Families were still living fourteen or fifteen millions of people who had died on account of their
wars and their ambitions. Then, over the years, the masses, you need to live the cult of heroes
they do not have the inventories, glorified Eulame, turning their exploits killings glorious,
giving an almost divine to his memory.

I can teach, gentleman, about fifty thousand books written to glorify Eulame and narrating his exploits.
However, his legacy could not be more fatal.

This manufacturer of war was necessary before disappearing saw our world condemned to war forever.

The
congress met in Mildendo tried a new division of the nations, dividing the former Eulame conquests,
but this arrangement was a hotbed of future fights.

All winners spoke of peace to cry, but everyone tried to live more armed than the others, and
feeling with greater forces required a considerable portion in the cast.

Shorten my story, gentleman, it hurts me to remember this period,
the most shameful of our history.

The people lived governed by men, the weapons were in the hands of men; the work is organized
and regulated men ... What else could happen? ...

The heirs of the Emperor held his pleasure each piece of land that they had to in the cast. Some
nations were established in the Republic, others were monarchies, a few, with the title of
Empires, restored the despotic and paternal terribly of the former sovereign.

Our nation, to recover their original boundaries, thought fit to keep
two provinces of Blefuscu, based on historical rights confused.

During several years of Blefuscu just thought to regain these provinces, as if life will be impossible
without them. The recalled in his patriotic songs, there was no public ceremony that did not
weep; boys, on entering school, the first thing they learned was the need to die one day to the
captive provinces regained their freedom, the men organized their
existence with fixed thought they were soldiers of a future war.

And at last came war, and those of us Blefuscu removed the two provinces.

Then

we imitate them, and for several years the children in our schools learned he had to die to regain
these territories, and there were chants of the country equal to the enemy, and the men were all soldiers,
and came a second war, during which we recover the two provinces ....

And of Blefuscu were prepared to turn to a third war ....

At the same time there were bloody conflicts between other countries
populated by people of our species.

No nation could comply with its current boundaries. The worship of the ancient idolatry gods
had happened a few colored rags called flags. Each, fetishism aggressive, felt that the cloth
of his nation was more beautiful than the others and should wave triumphant over the country
immediately.

The people separated by a stretch of sea, a river, a mountain or a forest, called borders,
is hated in a fierce, without having ever seen.

Each country slandering another, inventing on him the most absurd lies and these lies the following
generations accepted without bothering to verify them. Parent to children with slaughter perpetuated
by the simple reason that the grandparents had stuck.

Inventions were never made such an astonishing speed, but they all
served fatally to enlarge the art of killing.

Science had made the servant of the war, the trembling with patriotic glee laboratories when a discovery
provided security able to kill more men. Factories were stronger materials for war. All countries
competed in a mad race, seeking to anticipate the one another in mass destruction. The men were
killed on the ground and the sea, even at the last moment came to exterminate the silent heights
the atmosphere.

The biggest fortunes of each country possessed weapons manufacturers. The industrial action and the
selfish desire for profit taking a matter of patriotic devotion. If a country invented a huge
cannon, the following year the country produced another opponent twice as large. About waves
was even more crazy this exaggeration of the media offensive.

As Blefuscu and we are separated by the sea, we jump to a rivalry that devours our wealth and our
work.

Eagerly studied its fleet to our fleet proves superior.

If they built a large ship with many guns, us when we started in our yards other vessels more enormous,
reaching unbelievable proportions, which seemed a challenge good sense and of all physical laws.

Suffice
to say, gentleman, we've had warships larger than the boat that brought him to you; ships
with a hundred artillery pieces equal to the revolver that we took from his pocket, or perhaps
much larger, and carrying three thousand or four thousand men crew .... In Finally, real floating
islands.

And the worst thing was that these giant buildings and huge costs
required, everything was useless.

The continuous invention of destructive media gave new life to no larger boats that fish in our
seas, but, like them, could slip through underwater depth, attacking from afar the floating monsters
made of steel. Despite its humble appearance, many times, our naval battles, he scuttled vessels
giant, representing the value of a city.

Every war was more deadly and costly than before. Mothers, giving birth to children knew that did
not make men, but rather soldiers.

Do not pretend to believe, gentleman, that war was something new in
our history and only we had seen after he brought his inventions Eulame
the land of the giants.

We had wars since the earliest times, as I believe that all human groups had. But they were
wars with small armies that do not change the life of the country, wars being waged troops
of volunteers and professional soldiers, a kind of bloody luxury
of deadly elegance, which allowed our old emperors from time to time.

But after of dementia Eulame ambitious and refinement of mass destruction, wars were from town
to town, and all the youth of a country, leaving fields and workshops ran vigorous youth to
kill the other country that had done the same.

Every war meant a long high in human development, and then a setback. In the capital of each
country had a triumphal arch for a parade in your dome Sometimes the army returned victorious
and triumphant other invaders.

After every war, revenge seemed derelict land of forgetfulness and bestiality Men's restricting
production. Large companies were followed by military hunger and
epidemics.

The men showed worse upon returning to their homes during a momentary
peace.

They had forgotten the value of human life. Quarreled with the slightest pretext, are easily angered,
killing each other, beat their wives. In addition, they were all alcoholics. During their campaigns,
the leaders made it easy and plenty of wine hard liquor, knowing that a man into unconsciousness
less afraid of being drunk to death.

Public wealth saved for many years wasted in a few months, becoming
in smoke of gunpowder, in fact steel fragments, debris and plant populations.

When

at last peace came, was to start a new misery ....

The quiet periods
were as dangerous as wartime.

There have always been dissatisfied with the social organization have not always look to them
that hate possess. But after the wars the lack of social harmony was even more violent. Envy
he feels the bottom was more bitter. Since the poor had been soldiers to the force, with new
rights were considered to possess everything.

When the war ceased, the men were reluctant to work and talked about a redistribution of wealth
....

This absurd situation could not last.

I acknowledge, as I said before, there are generous souls of men and
above although less abundant than females. The crimes caused by men
could not fail to move to some of these men's souls, and a ruling
that time gave a sort of regulation for human peace, divided into
fourteen articles.

But among men the best ideas are transformed and
become corrupt. Background is in them selfishness that disfigures
all generous idea just in charge of implementing it.

There was a
country that ceased to praise peace, but this peace should be made
in accordance with tastes and ambitions. Everyone wanted things were
not as they should be, but under at his convenience. And the fourteen
articles or items were twisted and disfigured so that eventually became
almost as many calamities