 He found no resistance, after
  some small encounters almost no time, out of one or the other. The
  one was, that the passage of a mountains and where the Indians
  had fortified with palisades, were evicted a large portion of
  shots. The other, enemies wishing to enter the forest or jungle,
  to an Indian horse, which was taken for a coward among peers,
  (it was Lorenza) gave the body of the enemy, and leaving this
  come running through the squad that had been open, and shooting
  all his men returned without injury. But, while few who were
  to defend the way, although insurmountable enemy occupied the
  Monte Grande, and climbing the cavalry, to move the harshness
  of the mountain, remained in the gorge exit, and this was sure
  the forest for the infantry.
  
  106.

  Posted already but this, engaged the enemy in a job unlikely to
  blow up the rocks grueling mine: divided into parts carts,
  pulled the wheels turning, and transport all the other things on
  the shoulders of blacks, and Indian captives with the work of a
  month, and maybe even more. It worked so hard, on the third day
  of Easter the whole army was in payment, or stay in San Martin.
  Being here enemy, Michael is handing two letters in which they
  protested that they in no way had to give up their land, but had
  to withstand everything they could. Received them with scorn
  or ridicule, and were told that they Convenia work the example
  of St. Louis. And although Santa Fe residents, and those of
  the other cities said they, that They forced march, however,
  both generals, Spanish and Portuguese, with their presence urged
  the journey.
  

  107. For this reason, the Sunday after Easter, moved the
  actual head to the towns and arrived at the residence of
  San Bernardo, which is the town of Holy Angel, the following
  Sunday, with up to one week at other times being way one day,
  and nearby in this room waiting for the hidden and silent Indian
  Army, on the advice of the Gentiles Guanos and Minuanes.

108.
  After the second Sunday, May 3, and go down to San Bernardo's
  stay to the headwaters of the stream called Ibabiyú, which is within
sight of the residence of San Ignacio, the jurisdiction of San Miguel,
2,000 Indians came suddenly the recesses, where they hid, and spread
abroad through the tops of the hills opposite, and half-formed Moon:
the footmen stood on the hills, but the cavalry, led by the Gentiles,
to every race rushed to the enemy.

  This, pooling their cars in a circle formed a strong line, and extended
  his forehead to his squad, and it was defended with artillery
  and firearms, the forefront in the fight insisted, maintaining
  to night. Killed some Spanish, but do not know the number: because
  some say they were many, others twelve, and others less. Indians
  killed six of Holy Angel, a Nicole, a Michael, and no more.

109.
  At the end of next night the Indians came near to the trench
  of the enemy, and if they had done everything with silence
  would have done well their ploy: but as suddenly come near to crying,
  the whole army felt: then waking up the enemy, put on their arms
  and almost all day lasted the guerrillas, but without special
  advantage, unless the Cross took a troop of horses the enemy,
  having killed three of the guarding, the part of the Indians
  died only a Gentile.
  
  110.

  May 5th day the Indians were to repeat the attack, but the enemy
  on the silence of the night, pretending to retreat, as saw
  that the Indians had gone to take the roads that had in the back
  or rear, suddenly turned towards the villages formed and marched
  in battle. With whose sudden cunning Indians are perplexed, flew
  through the shortcuts they knew, the passage or ford a stream,
  called Chuniebí, which is not far from the town of San Miguel, but
  just five miles.
 