 In this journal appeared between 1842 and 1847 the second part of tour to Back
Down (1842), El Guajiro (1842), The comb shed (1843), Two Loves (1843), The Penitent (1844), The weaver
Yarey hats (1844-1845) and other minor and multitude of letters, reports and articles on literary
criticism and customs with their shoes name or the pseudonyms of Sansueña, I, The traveling
west, Lola de la Habana and others.

Villaverde, defender of the ideals of independence, participated as a very active propagandist in
the conspiracy of La Mina de la Rosa Cubana, 1848. When discovered it by informing a conspirator
was arrested in Havana and sentenced first to death 'in garrote "and more later than ten years
in prison.

Escaped on March 31, 1849 with other prisoners and hidden in the hold of a coastal schooner,
arrived in the United States.

In North America continued to fight for his political principles. Secretary was in New York Narciso
López, whom he knew since 1846, and editor in chief of The Truth.

Published in New Orleans between 1853 and 1854 the newspaper The Independent, etc.

He moved to Philadelphia in 1854, where he lived as a Spanish teacher and married with Emilia Casanova,
a leading activist in the Cuban independence.

He returned to Havana in 1858, received amnesty. Here he worked at the forefront of printing the
Antilla, which published some works of interest to our letters, including items manners of
Anselmo Suárez y Romero, and assisted in the literary journal in the company of Havana Sterling
and Calcagno, with important critical judgments about Betancourt
and other contemporaries.

He returned to New York soon after, where he continued his work as a teacher and journalist.
It was then The American writer (1861-62), The American Enlightenment
(1865-1869), The Mirror and The Warning Hispanoamericano.

In 1864 his wife founded a school in Wechawken. During this second stay in the United States
continued to fight for the independence of Cuba, like many other Cubans of his time. He only returned
to the island in 1888 for two weeks.

He died in New York on October 20, 1894. His figure to die had the admiration and recognition
of his contemporaries both as patriot and novelist.

The novel that cemented his literary reputation was Cecilia Valdés or La Loma del Angel, published
in final form in New York in 1882.

None of his previous works responded to efforts as high or as it awoke the enthusiasm of audiences
and critics. It Villaverde reflects the panorama of life in Cuba from 1812 to 1831. Show your
political categories, social and economic evils and terrible suffering. The work, with its powerful
classes and oppressed classes, with corrupt officials and indolent bourgeoisie, with its mulatto
discriminated against and their black slaves with their families enriched by the slave system
and aristocratic coats of arms purchased from the decrepit Spanish monarchy serves enlightening
preface to our republican history.

The atmosphere of this colonial era, moved with the breadth and detail abounds pages of the book,
is decisive in the play, which determines its validity in assessing critics. For Cecilia Valdés is far
from a perfect work.

The author explains in the preface to his creative process, a process that undoubtedly resented the ending
balance work.

The central issue - the drama of love, jealousy, revenge and death - hardly differs from usual
in the brochures of the time, the characters do not transcend most of the features outside, the
action is disjointed and rambling, stolen the story and main characters by creatures and minor
events, the style, hybrid, full of romantic weaknesses among those dawning glimpses realistic language,
oscillating between the most archaic foraging and the spontaneous popular turn ours outcome,
hit, in contradiction with the dimensions of the narrative.

But Cecilia Valdés is in our literary history, despite these numerous
and serious shortcomings the best novel of the nineteenth century
building.

Many Cubans know it today through the stage adaptation of José Agustín
Rodríguez Sánchez Arcilla, admirably into music by Gonzalo Roig; version
that was necessarily vertebrate with the history of the protagonists.

Stripped of luxury descriptive of its environment, the case is weak
and melodramatic.

This acclaimed adaptation confirms that the fundamental Cecilia Valdés
is on the environment.

His habit of vigorous political inquiry, social and economic, is that attenuates its shortcomings
and sets to work on the doors of the novel realistic.

THE CUBAN

Far from Cuba, without hope of seeing its bright, flowers, and palms,
to whom, but you, faces countrywomen, reflecting the most beautiful
side of the country, would enshrine with more justice, these sad pages?

THE

AUTHOR

PROLOGUE

Published the first volume of this novel, Don Lino Printing Literary mid Valdés the year 1839. At one
time I began the composition of the second volume, which was complete;
but it did not work very well because I moved shortly after one of
the Matanzas The teachers of the College of Business, recently founded
in that city, than because a Once there, I undertook the composition
of another novel, Girl with a golden arrow, I concluded and a volume
printed in 1841.

Back in the capital in the year 1842, without leaving the exercise
of teaching, I entered joined the staff of El Faro Industrial, which
consecrated all literary works and romantic which continued almost
without interruption until mid-1848.

In his columns, among many other writings of various kinds, appeared in the form of brochures:
- El Ciego and his dog, an excursion to the Lower Back, The Comb Hollow, El Guajiro, Two Loves,
The Missionary of Caroni, the Penitent, etc.

After midnight of October 20 last year said, I was surprised in bed prisoner, with great shock of
soldiers and officers by the district commissioner of Monserrate, Barreda; and taken to the
public prison, by order of Captain General of the island, Don Federico Roncaly.

Which beast locked in a dark, dank dungeon, stood six consecutive months, the out of which, after trial
and sentenced to prison for Permanent Military Commission as a conspirator against the rights
of the crown of Spain, managed to escape on 4 April 1849, together with Don Vicente Fernández
Blanco, guilty of criminal offense and jail Keychain Rey Garcia, who in a little was due to
a serious difficulty between the governments of Spain and the United States. By a strange coincidence
the three of us together on sailboat Havana harbor, but our company only lasted until the Apalachicola
estuary on the coast southern Florida, where I went by land to Savannah
and New York.

Outside of Cuba, reform my way of life: pickup truck my literary tastes by higher thoughts spent
in the world of illusions, the world of realities; left, finally, the frivolous land occupations
of slaves in a slave, to take part in the companies of free men Free
ground.

Abode beyond my manuscripts and books, but I got some time later, it was given me to do anything
with them since first as editor of The Truth Cuban separatist newspaper, then as military secretary
of General Narciso Lopez, took very active and eventful life, has nothing else to sedentary
work and studies.

With the failure of the issuance of Cárdenas in 1850, the disaster
of the invasion of the Pools and death of the illustrious leader of
our revolutionary attempt in 1851, did not stop before revived new
projects to liberate Cuba, who came stroking the Cuban patriots from
the very beginning of this century.

All, however, which ended earlier disaster and misfortune for the year 1854.

In 1858 I was in Havana after nine years of absence. Reprinted then my novel Two Amores, in
print of Mr. Happy Massana, on his advice the company rushed to revise, better yet, to merge the other
novel, Cecilia Valdés, which was only printed the first volume and a small manuscript of the
second.

The new plan had drawn up its smallest details, written warning and proceeded to the development
of the action, when again had to leave the country.

The vicissitudes which followed the second voluntary expatriation, the need to provide to keep
family in a foreign country, the political turmoil that began in
1865 felt in Cuba, then undertook journalistic work, gave me no encouragement
or leisure to indulge in long work without expectation of immediate
profit, and therefore tedious - that demanded the weeding, widening
and consolidation of the most voluminous and complicated for my works
literary.

After the new agitation from 1865 to 1868 came the revolution of the last year appointed and war
a bloody decade in Cuba, accompanied by tumultuous scenes of Cuban expatriates in all the countries
surrounding it, especially in New York. As before and as always, pickup truck literary occupations
for militant politics, whereas unfolded here pen and the word at least as strongly that there
rifle and machete.

During most of that period of delirium and patriotic dreams, slept, of course, the manuscript
of the novel. What do I say? not progressed beyond a half-dozen chapters, drawn at odd moments,
when memories of the homeland steeped in the blood of its best children, offered in all its
horror and all its beauty and seemed to demand of those who good
and much loved, the true picture of its existence under the triple
physical standpoint, moral and social, before his death and his exaltation
to the lives of free people to change all the characteristics of its
previous appearance.

Hopefully, that in no way can truly say that I have spent forty years (period studied from 1839
to date) in the composition of the novel.

When I decided to finish it, There will be two or three years, more than I could do was send a
chapter, with many interruptions, every fortnight, sometimes every month, working several hours
on weekdays and all day on Sundays.

With this way of composing works of the imagination, it is difficult to maintain constant interest
narrative, not always animated and united action, or even, natural style, nor the warm tone and sustained
demand production of the novel. And this is one of the reasons that impel me to talk about
the novel and me.

The other is that after all I have left the picture as bleak and tragic character, that, as I
am Cuban to the core of the bones and a man of morality, I feel a kind of fear or shame present
to the public without an explanatory word of apology. Harto as I can see that strangers, say,
people who do not know about the customs nor the time in the history of Cuba that I wanted to paint,
they may feel that the colors chosen darker shadows and overload the box for the sheer pleasure of
causing effect to Rembrandt, or Gustavo Doré. Nothing farther from my mind. I pride myself on
being before anything else, realist writer, taking this word in the artistic sense that is given
in modern times.

More than thirty years since I read any novel, Walter Scott and Manzoni being the only models
that I could continue to draw the various pictures of Cecilia Valdés. I acknowledge that would
have been better for my work that I had written an idyll, a pastoral romance, even a story like
that of Paul and Virginia [1] or Atala and Rene, [2] but this, although
more entertaining and moral, there would have been the portrait of
any living person, or description customs and passions of a people
of flesh and blood, subject to special political laws and civil rights,
embedded in a certain order of ideas and surrounded by real and positive
influences.

Far to invent or fake characters and fanciful and improbable scenes, I've taken the realism
I understand, to the point of presenting the main characters in the novel with all their hair and
signs, as they say, wearing the suit he wore in life, most under his real first and last name, speaking
the same language used in the historical scenes that included, in what could be copied, d'après
nature [3] its moral and physical appearance, so that those who knew them by sight or by tradition,
easily recognize them and say at least: the resemblance is undeniable.

Hardly have aspired to something else.

All I have to add in my conscience, if someone deems that painting is nothing holy or edifying
is that, by placing the action of the novel in the Havana theater and season run from 1812 to 1831,
I found characters that could represent faithfully the paper medium, for example, the payo Lorenzo,
or Don Abundio the timid, or the energetic Father Christopher, the saint or the Archbishop
Carlos Borromeo, to step abounded that could happen, without contradiction, faithful copies
of the pipes, the stagehands and Don Rodrigo, thugs, brave and libertine,
whose generation seems to be all countries and all ages.

Neither should be attributed to lack of the author if the picture is not shown, no lesson,
not teach delight. The most I have been given to do is to refrain from any indecent or vulgar
paint, missing was easy to make, bearing in mind the conditions, the character and passions
of the majority of actors in the novel, because I have never believed
that the writer public in an effort to seem true and accurate painter
of manners, you forget that you deserve respect virtue and modesty
of the reader.

Moreover, if the work comes to light now complete, contains all speech
defects and style that brought the first volume printed in Havana,
if there is greater fairness and truth in painting characters, if
they are removed certain scenes and little phrases or doubtful morality,
if the general tone of the composition is more uniform and animated,
in much part to the advice of my wife, with whom I have consulted
chapter after chapter, As was concluded.

     
      C. VILLAVERDE

        

New York, May, 1879

PART

CHAPTER I

Such is the fruit of sin, Tello, harvest of pain.

SOLIS

Towards dusk one day in November 1812, following the street Compostela direction north of the
city, a carriage pulled by two mules, one of which, as was customary, he rode the black coachman.
The latter suit, the garrisons of those and solid silver ornaments, showed clearly that the
person was rich belonging as luxurious luggage. Was pinned to the cabochons, not only from the
front, but also on one side and the other half - the curtain or cloth cap with a band of cowhide.
Be the one who held the carriage was at the time, there is no denying he was interested in save
the mystery, though it seemed excused caution, since there was no living soul in the streets,
or another light could see the stars, or some artificial houses that
escaped through the wide cracks of closed doors.

Suddenly stopped the mules trotted into the corner of the alley of San Juan de Dios and left space
and no little trouble with the buggy a tall, good job, evening dress
black buttoned to the neck, revealing underneath the vest or light-colored
waistcoat, carranclán pants up, tie bristle and beaver hat with enormous
glass wing narrow.

As could be discerned in the half light of the stars, the factions most notable were the nose
man, who was hooked, very bright eyes, the face oval and small beard.

The color of it and the hair, shades and hat altered the convent
walls neighbor, obscured perhaps without being black.

- Follow up
the street from the Stoned - said the gentleman in an imperious tone,
lower support left hand on the saddle of the mule yards - and looks
away to the corner.

If round to give you, say you belong to Don Joaquin Gomez and awaiting orders. Do you understand,
Pio?

- Yes, sir, "replied the coachman, who since he started talking about his master had his hat in
hand.

And following the passage of mules to the point that you said that.

Alley San Juan de Dios consists of two blocks only, closed at one end on the walls of the convent
of Santa Catalina and the other in the houses of the street Havana. The hospital of San Juan de Dios,
which gives its name, and which high and square windows, always let
out the hot breath of the sick, occupies an entire side of the second
block and the other three small houses and a single red tile floor,
the last notably higher than the street level, with one and two stone
steps to the door.

The best looking of them were entering the first block of the street de Compostela. Were all
the same size, more or less, single window and door, this cedar with large-headed nails, painted
brick, or mirror it or flown [4] and thick wooden balusters. The floor of the street was in
its primitive natural state, rocky and without sidewalks.

The strange gentleman, leaning against the walls, under the projecting eaves tiles stopped at
the door of the third house on the right and gave two taps with the tip fingers. There no doubt waiting
for him, because soon open what it took to move from door window
to the person who removed the gate that closes on the inside.

That was be the mistress of the house, mulatto and 40 years of age, of medium height, filled
with meats, but retained the narrow waist, rounded shoulders, bare, beautiful head, the rather
thick nose, mouth, expressive and very curly thick hair. Embroidered shirt wore thin, shirts,
and twill skirts without folds or no embellishment.

There was little furniture in the room, leaning against the right wall a mahogany table on which
burned a wax candle in a windshield or lantern, and several heavy chairs cedar cowhide seat
and back, nailed with brass tacks. At that time this had the luxury,
much more for a woman of color, who occupied that room as love and
not as a maid. The gentleman shook his hand as he entered, he only
bowed serious while being funny and kind that no contest was even
stranger, because apart their difference in status and race, their
respective ages was remarkable at first view and there was no other
relationship between them than friendship, more or less sincere and
selfless