 

Ramiro, lying mouth in bed, had not taken a moment the eyes of his beloved, and see it that way
regrettable hesitation, rushed to support it. But I had slept Aixa itself on the slabs, gritting
his teeth and letting out a shaky moan, as if shivering. Her big hair, interspersed with petals
and jewels, now poured on the ground. Bliss light began to bathe his face. His pallor surpassed
the sapwood of the world, orange blossom, lilies, snow. Ramiro recalled the description of
the ecstasies of Mother Teresa of Jesus and other wonderful servants of the Lord, and also remembered
his mother, when, after long prayer in the oratory, suddenly collapsed, sweet as a death wound.
It was the same pale pathetic, the same trembling of lips, the same stretch of the eyelids
on the eyes clearly intoxicated. No, could not be a jorguina. He had spoken the language of the
mystics and without filters, spells, no ointments, the mere contemplation, just go back to the
higher regions of ecstasy.

He called several times: - Aixa! Aixa! Aixa! - Palpating the arms, cheeks, throat, breasts, but she
fell silent, cadaverous and icy on the marble. She wanted to warm the his mouth, and perverse
prey himself from temptation, covered it with passionate caresses.

Never found a strange and sweet.

It was the candy laced with snow, and his encouragement: ideal and
disturbing, like the flowers of death.

XVI

Aixa Ramiro always came up with the same secret for the first time. All are reproduced: the tour,
the band, the whistle ... But one day, realizing what he cared to know Along the way, drew his dagger,
pierced her leather chair and looked. His surprise was great to see that the drivers did not
give it twists and turns in the same backyard. The tank, the pomegranate, a cage suspended
from a pillar, and the same old, sitting in the shade, on a jar,
passed and repassed before the gap, indefinitely.

There was, therefore, such a journey through the Moors. Moreover, almost all the days that
followed, presented itself in the courtyard of the beautiful Moorish dagger, and after talking
for an instant the old woman set off back in the rooms.

Another incident came to worry. One afternoon, to get home earlier mysterious than usual, shocked,
standing in the alley, the sexton of the cathedral.

The Portuguese spun on his heel and began walking toward the east.

- Segura am - Ramiro said the old woman - that this dog vase agora-teamed with Gonzalo, expect
to that part - he said, pointing in the direction of St. Thomas: - One link I want to build, Sir Knight.

Aixa
finally revealed a more hidden way to reach it.

To enter making an the block adjoining room from the bathroom, lifted the end of a tapestry hanging
from the wall and a Opening the box showed the wide expanse and deep shimmering meadows and
mountains. This opening had been dug in the same escarpment. From below, it was impossible
to discover; two large boulders hid it. However, access was not difficult.

City down to the valley and describing long detour, now that Ramiro came window scaling which exalted
his chivalric fantasy. Aixa was waiting in vain holding out his arms to help raise. But not all
the hours spent on colorful pillows arrived in the afternoon, the Moorish led him to an outdoor
terrace advancing around noon.

It was a place of contemplation and prayer. The songs were about red high parapet above which dominated
the landscape view of valley and mountains. The bowl sent the sky offering a continuous slender beautiful
perfume. A single cypress, tired old man stood in that place, his dark desire, and in the center,
a reflecting pool, with calm hypnotic, the sadness of the tree, thread incense, clouds, constellations,
and Sometimes, too: the moon, so precise, so clear, Aixa, removing
hair from her trap round gems, sacred gesture hundíala with water,
and then, as if he believed had seized curve that the slightest touch
headset that popped into infinite pieces, we had network to the mouth
and moaned in a passionate, trembling, incomprehensible, while their
soaked rings glowed in the dark.

They were still one afternoon looking out on the rocks, and watching in silence, hands confused,
fascinating serenity of the mountains at dusk, when Ramiro, the sudden
return head, found himself with the Moorish mysterious figure, motionless
and silent in the midst of terrace.

Aixa, to fade away the surprise of the boy, were presented with a
long smile.

A moment after sitting on a carpet, talked quietly. The Moorish, in pure-blooded Castilian,
informose of the principal lords of the city, their pedigrees, their
relationships.

Meanwhile, listening to the conversation Aixa throbbing with joy, and his eyes went from one
another face as if we compare the features.

The sun went into hiding. Vague perfume of marjoram and lavender rose
from the ravine.

Was a hot afternoon and quiet.

The sky, the valley, the village, everything is painted in purple diluted. The same cypress embermejaba
westward black foliage. Ramiro experienced as never religiosity that time that the towers are
clad in gold and scarlet for sing the angelic salutation, and thought it was perhaps between
two people of a different faith to yours, including two false converts. "Hail Mary would pray with
him?

He and they were silent.

Suddenly, as the thirsty pilgrim caravan hear an uproar over the horizon,
the Moorish leaned his whole body sideways, and touching his ears,
sharpened their attention.

Ramiro believed then distinguish a voice like distant, a stealthy,
sad song.

It was undoubtedly the voice of the muezzin, summoning idzan outside,
in a neighbor's roof.

Aixa and Moorish rose and, in the middle of the mat, with his face
to the nascent priestly hieratic, made the four prostrations of azaleas
in the afternoon.

When they were finished, asomáronse each other about the rocks, and, clasping his arms, staring
at the same point on the horizon, they sang the following prayer,
with that peculiar accent reciting famous words whose echoes are always
awake in memory.

She said:

"The holy love and insomnia as a rope tied to torment me."

He replied:

"My heart is grieved by the absence. The looming dawn moans, groans when the sun touches the west. "

And
they kept alternating:

"If the wind blows from the region fragrant smell of musk all land
and revilca in my heart the desire to visitalla.

"

"Oh, you who drive their camels to the place of the beloved, when you reach the grave of Tehama
natural, the most excellent of men, high, love, greet him in the
my part, because he knows the remedy for my sufrencia, and when you
admire the radiance of the earth Neches, make this the recollection
of my passion, as there is for my other quibla that the tomb of the
prophet.

"

On hearing these words, in a moment like this, the youth felt a horrible blasphemy had been
thrown into the face of the Lord, and a superhuman accent, which
the voice of an archangel he shouted in his duty to conscience the
Church of Christ and to the memory of their elders.

Aixa continued:

"Then they went at dawn the messengers to the orchards of Mecca and Medina, and I have left
hostage. Marched on the camels. Kebir leads the singing and my heart goes with those for the love
of Hechaz land.

My heart belongs to the caravan. The dust will of camels. "

He replied:

"Nothing is capable of extinguishing the fire of my passion as Zemzem water. Blessed are the
baby!

Me the greeting for people who spins around the station and Hatim
Abraham and the temple of Cava.

"

There was silence and when it finishes a ritual. Ramiro felt impulse to get up and spit in the
face of the man.

The Moorish crossed his arms, and Aixa recostose as a daughter on his chest.

At that moment a metallic vibration came from the city.

Then the bell rang Santiago at close range. Other, more distant, responded. The cathedral bells
dropped their low and solemn, and then, all the churches at a time,
in hallucinatory concert, played sentences.

Ramirez fell to his knees, as if a dart come from above had pierced him suddenly and flowed from
his chest Aves bulldozers and warm. Her eyes were a frightening closed blackness on which images
parading flaming purgatory. Humbled, emptied, fell under the remorse, constantly apologizing for
something hateful, something huge, abhorrent, it was now for the first time in its weight,
in all its horror, on its own conscience.

Aixa and the Moor, clinging tightly, without speaking, they kept their eyes of the boy.

The city extended the wailing and the singing of his bronzes in the merciful dark.

XVII

Two days later, Don Alonso Serrano Blázquez, going to visit Monsieur de la Hoz, ran into with Ramiro
on the stairs. The boy declined to accompany him.

When they reached the courtyard, Alonso, leaning on a column, as if
searching for hidden of the footmen, told him bluntly that some people
began to murmur to his frequent visits to the neighborhood of Santiago.

Ramiro apology gave his wandering curiosity and desire investigate
those suspected customs of the converts.

- Well answered - said Don
Alonso - if I were a cheeky unofficial and not friend faithful in
your house, that I ever watched as a child.

A pause underlined the intention of that phrase.

- Run on your worship
- he added, trying to mitigate with a smile the hardness of the words
- the strangest species.

       Spewed about you who are in league with the Moors for transmitilles
everything about them is resolved, others that you have purchased
with present awareness and money, and not missing, in short, who will
ensure that you have made a covenant with the Devil through an old
witch of the suburb.

Needless to say, so I think I in these tales as in the fables of monsters and giants, but if
I have to speak fully, I find that the simple curiosity enough to explain your daily walks
on the Moors.

The young man contracted his lip with an angry gesture, and suddenly blood encendiole face.
What to do? Lowering his head went forward, back and forth in front of the gentleman and then,
trembling with pride, revealed the secret commission he had received
on behalf of His Majesty.

- Ah!

Too well as I can - added - where they can bring these treacherous slander and what I shall
sink chest when determining avenging sword.

Don Alonso squeezed into his hands the young man's trembling hand, and looking in a profound
way, eyes bright with emotion, said:

- I never doubted the honor of someone who takes a blood as qualified
and as clean as yours; but huélgame declare that the words that I
hear you just removed from an incomprehensible soul grief.

Hey, give me those arms!

Ceremoniously shook.

Climbing the sedan chair Don Alonso, and ran to his home, determined to promote partnership his
daughter Beatriz with the young man whose face had thought haughty horoscope reading of the great
honors.

* * * * *

The scene on the terrace and the recent speech of the father of Beatriz
Ramirez ripped to love spell I was living.

Raw seemed written clearly now the windings hypocritical conduct, the total neglect of duty,
false confessions at the foot of minister of God. All for a woman of another race whose religious
law had not wanted to investigate too much for the cry of conscience does not come to disturb their
lust. What did again? What hint had been surprised after visiting the house daily, whose walls
bore, perhaps, the secret of the conspiracy?

His will is enhestó. He was willing to make amends to God through any heroism and hard it was.
He had found religion in a long book examples of great sinners abominable that redeemed his life
with a moment of deep repentance. It desceparía breast that love of the Saracen and play your
life in a coup unprecedented audacity. Then, when people bow before him and no one dared question
his honor, it would have revenge when Gonzalo de San Vicente, it
could only be he who helped Ringer, spread by the city's evil inventions
that he had referred the gentleman.

He returned several times to the Moors and mysterious house. And the body of the Saracens let him in
the sense imaginary smell of ointment witch and sniff. With what began as great enjoyment experiencing
the first stirrings of detachment. Rabid fruition of torture now
mixed all his touch.

There were moments when pondered how best to eliminate forever that too beautiful female, whose
fascination could resurface later in his way. Imagined, back in the depths of his conscience, take
some hidden poison, or it perish without any weapons that spans the throat, and, well, killed by his
own hands, with the only testimony of God, submerge in water, with all boats of odor and stain,
for the stack would serve as a grave evil. But I had heard that some women charged the death
of unforgettable beauty.

Then realized the virtue of holy fire, destruction unsurpassed fire, which left but a black
heap, repellent.

She, however, I received ever more passionate, more eager, more sick with longing, as if all
your soul sensed the distance and wanted to the object of his love, with tension of a beautiful
glass hand drain. And did not speak with that accent superior and happy. His clear smile darkened,
filled with fear, like a living water at dusk. Sobs desolate, desperate, the stifled now,
every moment, and those acid drops that ran up his lip, the smell of tears and anguish hastened
his loss. To feel in their will as a tapestry that can develop or develop, foot, depending on
whim, Ramiro found himself again master of himself, and his own victorious gesture woke up in his
mind instincts of cruelty.

Beat and squeezed his love more than once to pluck the secret of the conspiracy. It seemed that
was on the right to torment the woman who had tried to plunge into apostasy and perjury.

The idea of ??the devil hidden in the body of this fascinating cruzábale by the mind, and he
felt proud to have fought with such an enemy, like Jacob in the darkness,
and now his Once, I took those white hands of Delilah, those hands
of treachery and deceit, and demanding revealing word, squeezed each
other's fingers on the hard rings, while her with tearful eyes, looked
upward, without uttering a groan.

Ramiro hurried moments, peering at each visit every nook and cranny, to Ensenada the other rooms,
felt the walls secretly hoping to discover some secret spring. She, however, did nothing but
ask, incessantly, to flee together in Castile. It was the same old story monotonous, only pray desperately.
Near Granada, on Genil, he would say, had a house as her body all white with a red little door for
him, only for him, and laughed servile laughter, lewd, and near tears.

Once, to accompany him to the window, Gulina, the old Moorish, told a genia, out of the water of
the pool, had revealed what was in it.

- It's a secret - he added - that you yourself asconde.

Nombrole Beatrice and said the details of his disappointment and feelings indiscernible moving in
his heart. The painful memory, he thought forever buried, appeared now referred to by the woman,
stretched, shaken before their eyes, what exciting clothing other
times. Hissing, then, mysterious words, the old woman pulled out of
the drawer furniture painting a figurine. The head, no features, all
bristling mane was hispid thick. The waist was tight, bombastic skirt,
two long cores from pierced throat apart. Ramiro knew too well what
that meant, and trembled for the maid, to the awesome appeal of witchcraft.

That
afternoon, walking with Canon by the square of the cathedral, he rehearsed
Ramiro for the first time, its entry into the house of the Moors and
the beginning of his affair with Aixa as if everything just happened.
Canon, crunching the gravel under the slab the sole of the shoe, we
listened carefully, pressing with both hands the Book of Hours against
his chest. At last, he replied:

- Your own speech, my son, do me
think that ye are in grave danger of bewitchment. The female has to
be some famous jorguina, using filters of evil, whose power can only
resist the occasional hard body in penance. No wonder that have just
referred about his great physical beauty, as the devil puts in their
features more crafty bait of temptation and he himself often stay
in their persons, as evidenced continuously. Urge, Ramiro, untie that
knot in a single blow, as the ancients tell us King Alexander. For
the layout and openly of that house, I have for me that has to be
site of clandestine meetings, and I think now that if it llegárades
to introduce you to About ten o'clock at night, when no one is waiting,
I would be surprised, for fixed, hands on the cake. A parish of Santiago.
He will have to assist in the company. Ah, if I had I take your youth
or not, at least, these habits serious!

Ramiro soon remembered the
window of the escarpment. Was done. Said goodbye Canon promising that
same night tempt surprise.

Vargas Orozco stood still for a moment
with his chin in the book and the eyes on the ground. His black figure
lent a funereal church the lonely square, where the evening seemed
gloomy sift powder rust