 Moreover, the mistress was pleased to discrete with
Ines, to explain their views and to find way to say I ran as her, that his spirit and the Inesita
were in complete harmony.

- Come on - said he loves - what do you do fool around here? Come
to bed.

Nothing is more harmful to health that this mischievous fashion of
Madrid to make the day night and night into day.

- I'm coming - said
Agnes.

He continued the housekeeper, who always accompanied her, helped her to undress, and get dressed,
and never away from her at night until she was in bed.

The bedroom of Agnes was set with singular care and cleaning. On the bureau, in a glass case,
they saw a San Antonio de Padua, package, made of clay and painted not vulgar artist. Young Ghost,
glory in Lisbon was very cute face, had good colors, as if life does
not do him penitent dent by the grace of God, and showed ecstatically
happy and contemplating the Child Jesus, who was in his arms and lavished
a thousand gifted favors.

Poor Inesita bed, three chairs and a small table was over which had writing materials were the
same neatness. Completed the furniture a pine cabinet glass doors, within which there were several
books and not a few curiosities and beauties of almost no value, but there were guarded as if
they were the most portentous objects art. There appeared, placed in good order, the wise men
and some shepherds and shepherdesses of a former birth, an angel,
two dolls dressed in a long bath, and several boxes and juguetillos
other witness who gave keeper was thorough and its beautiful owner.

The Inesita linen was in the comfortable, and the dresses and other
finery were kept in a dark little room, immediately to the bedroom,
where he perches, and where covered some indiana old quilts and coconut.

Inesita

first thing he did was hide the letter with the more openly between the pillow his bed and cover.
Then quietly left the housekeeper to help her undress, which was work a few minutes. And he
was finally in bed, her hair gathered no network or cap, but rich and adored loose skein.

Ines said he had no desire to sleep, and asked the housekeeper to let her light to read in
a devotional book for half an hour even. The love, however reluctantly, had to bring veladorcito
to bed and leave him a lighted candle.

During all this was not idle the language of love. Inesita almost always answered in monosyllables,
eager to have ended talk and be alone, but the mistress was in the
mood that night and not just with his thoughts and speeches.

Among other things said:

- Daughter, I can not reach the taste you can have your sister and her husband live in this
maze of the court. How much better we were in our town! Truth is that there salary was more vile,
but ... if there is a penny over here with a hard ... I confess, I'm drowning in these tabuquillos
and cupboard in which we live. How I miss those patios, those corrals of my land! In the kitchen
of Mr. Cure could all this room and too much room! And then ... living so high ... as perched!
Boy, there are steps to get here! And this is not the worst. The worst thing is the little or
no case here to make it. Madrid still I have no person to talk. Back in town, what a delight!
Out me on the street and there was no dog or cat that does not tell me: "God save at his mercy, goodbye,
love Teresa. How do you spend, ma'am? "And other things like that. Here there is no soul I address
the word and give me the good morning. Then everything is expensive, you eat gold or is necessary
dieting, or spend much money eating there. Begin shortly thrushes, and in our land reach up
to five quarters to get a pair. Go you to eat here two as fat as those thrushes. Ya, ya ... I
command you work ... On which there are none ... Y take ... If any, would cost an arm and a leg.
In faith, then you liked you little thrushes!

What eels? How about frog legs? None of this is our scope here but when they ring loud.

- Do not be greedy, love, do not be greedy, do not remember much of pots of Egypt, as I said Monsieur
le Cure, who used to scold you for that vice of gluttony - Ines said laughing.

- It's not gluttony, ungrateful.

I'm sorry for you, not me. I just dish alboronía or a gazpacho.

On the other hand, I'm not mourning only food but also other things.

And I mourn with good reason.

And if not, we are free ... Do you think it is so easy that in Madrid you skip a good boyfriend?

-
Let it ... I did not jump. If I'm not looking forward to having a boyfriend.

- Well, what do you have? What on earth are to have the girls?

- No woman, no ...

- No, miss, it is necessary to skip a good boyfriend and get married. Your sister is great, you
brother is a saint, but you should live life with them and half at
their expense.

Inesita sighed, and continued love:

- In the town, for you, you're a real girl, how he had to miss a rich
landowner, a homeowner or farmer with the kidney well covered, which
aspire to your hand?

But here I find it difficult. The rich go to the Marquesas duped and duchesses, or a thousand rascal
bad breed, who exploit them. What's left for poor girls like you? Nothing ... the cheesy nickname
that usually prodigaros ... and a liquid Don degollante, more shame and hunger more traps than average
living.

- Who knows, loves? - Said Ines -. Do not worry so much about me. God will provide. Goodbye,
and let me alone.

The housekeeper was forced to leave. He kissed his girl, and advised to turn off soon light and
fall asleep, they left the room, carefully closing the door.

Ines was not well in the desert, pulled out of hiding the letter and read as follows:

"My dear lady and dear friend: Despite the respect that I have always treated you, you will not
have noticed the more than brotherly love since you were a little girl teachers. The class difference
between you and me and my lack of fortune, gave me no never mind, while you were here, nor
could I even dream that you expect him to do so I said, accepting my hand. Since you lack the people
God has favored me, bless my work and sleepless nights, and I already
have incomes and means to live here with family, almost as well as
the wealthy.

This change or improvement in my position and the consideration that your sister and her husband
took an honest man and poor, and you should not be any more ambitious
and demanding that she give me after the boldness that I have missed
to the day, and I have to declare that I love and that I should be
the happiest of men if you come to me.

"I know the nobility and generosity of heart to you, and I know I will never marry you by simple
calculation, but I'm not so thoughtlessly enthusiast who does not understand that by giving
important step as the link for all and raise a family, not to be consulted, weighed and measured
the difficulties in life, and the resources that exist to overcome them. For the latter, I tell
you frankly, do not believe that it's offended, I have today Pretty good. From what I can tell
you I own circumstances, his brother and friend My Don Braulio.

"As for me, you know me and decide. I know you do not deserve it, but the love makes me bold,
and implore him to lend me the merits that I need.

"I do not want you to decide at once, but after most careful consideration,
so that not have to repent of lightness.

The life of Madrid must have special attractions for girls. I want to see you in Madrid, and
know and appreciate all these attractions, to renounce them, knowing what waiver, when I give
a yes, if by that I given.

If you would join your fate to mine, would be respected and loved here, and the surround yo
anything that might be pleasing, to the welfare and culture of these places I agree, but you
would have to abandon all idea of ??returning, were not a step large
cities.

My ambition and all my life plans are coded in care my flow and doing more in this town where I
live also my children, if God's given me. Why put a period to the answer I want, and I beg you not give
me the rush.

My impatience is great, but I restrain my impatience when this is my lifelong happiness, and above
all, of you, I is a thousand times more expensive.

"I have a whim and caprice call him because it would be neat state here the grounds on which is founded:
I have a fancy to you, in full freedom, without anyone to influence
their advice for or against, decide my fate, rejected, or favoring.

"So this statement of mine is a secret to everyone, including his wife's sister you, Dona Beatriz.
Only Don Braulio know the step I take, but he has promised Don Braulio
not advocate for me, and just give you the reports you requested.

"I will wait until within a month, at least. Do not attribute you coldness of my soul this long
wait that I impose.

Atribúyalo the idea so high that I have the solemnity and therefore commitment to induce you
to enter.

"I said to you to, but not you that dude, even despised, will always
admiring your affectionate and loving, Paco Ramirez.

"

Inesita read this letter with very great satisfaction, showing it in the lipstick that animated and
lit his face. No one, however, that would have been in that moment, except for powers supernatural
to read souls, if satisfaction had discovered was just vanity to
be loved, or even love for the person who was determined to woo her.

Read the letter, Inesita rose from bed, opened the top drawer of the dresser and kept the letter
in it locked up.

Then lay down again, turned off the light and placed comfortably to meditate perhaps on content of
that document, and sleep at last.

VI

The next morning, Ines and Don Braulio, while Dona Beatriz, less early bird that , was still in
bed, had a long conversation about the letter undoubtedly Paco Ramírez.

Then they went to church together the two sisters, then all had lunch, and finally, Don Braulio,
not without promise before that night would lead to the two girls of the Gardens Buen Retiro,
went to the Ministry of Finance. Although Sunday, Don Braulio prompted his departure, or gave
an excuse for it, assuming it was extraordinary occupations.

Back in his office, where no one had come over him, Don Braulio, instead of studying records,
long time was sitting with his elbows on his office and hands on the cheeks, studying himself.
This study should not give very satisfactory results.

Don Braulio sighed several times, knit his brows, showed some anger taking some punches, and
eventually relent and shed two tears, slowly sailed her face.

Then, as by way of ease and comfort, Paco Ramírez wrote the following letter:

"Dear Paco: Last night I fulfilled your request with all the requirements and precautions that
you gave me. Beatriz ignored and will ignore the step you have taken. Agnes is very secretive.
As the effect of reading your letter may have had on his mind, I do not know what to say.
This morning I spoke with Agnes, but the heart of a maiden is impenetrable, unfathomable as an
abyss.

Modesty, candor, innocence, all these garments, men believe long, are no longer a thick veil,
but a high, thick wall, which serves to repair heart to not be noticed or read what it mind
reading. Hence the deception men often have more clear, but are not cheating when you no longer have
Remedy: After marrying.

"Inesita seems, and I think that is candid, good, frank, everything you can imagine, but does
not leave you to discover not whether or not, but if your letter has not been flattered and
flattered. That's right: she has been very grateful for the affection and confidence that
inspires you. In terms I infer also told me something very important. If Agnes had thought reflectively
this other thing would be something to censor much thought, but I think she feels one instinctively,
not realizing comprehensive, and sensible, however, fair. In sum, Agnes does not calculate or
thinks, but feels and perceives that your plan is bad and caused the error. You will offer
to be decided in a month or for the pleasures of this capital, for the triumphs self-esteem can
be here and ambitious hopes which may be incurred in soul, or for
yourself, your love and your hand.

This would be discrete if there were no circumstances it spoils and has discovered her at once.

"It
is this fact of your absence. Missing you and present all such property, apparent or Real,
who has to leave for you, the game is not the same. Not you who struggle, but your memory, which,
if one side is worth less than the individual, on the other hand
may be worth much more if it beautifies poetry.

In short: Inesita not going to leave this for you, because you prefer, but for the recollection
of you, who has not seen for three years. The memory also have to be confusing, incomplete,
diverse lot, and it will be completed and transform it with fantasy.

She will not be remembered as a woman remembers a man, as a bride
remembers her boyfriend, but as a young girl remembers her older brother.

Has, then add the imaginary quality of loving and thinking about you other than to now thought.

"All
this and more, you will understand without my saying so, is stirred
in the mind of Agnes.

I interpret, perhaps I'm wrong, but it seems to me that she wonders: "Would I like Paco, when he
saw him in town, as it should like a boyfriend to his girlfriend? "I loved only brother? And
if I liked as a boyfriend, was it because he deserves it or because the people I had not seen
other men who deserve it more?

Do not be happening to me now poetic Paco in my memory, and to find, when you see him, well under
the memory itself? In its own soul, can not be such a phenomenon? Whatever it is, explain it
as want to explain, it is certain that nothing I said that I loved when we lived together, and Now,
I do not see three years ago, I declared his love and wants to marry
me. What is this?

"Agnes does not answer such questions. It does not solve any doubt that the assault. I understand,
then, that what you want, but dared not tell me, is that you come
by here; only way for her to see clearly everything to convince you
love, and understanding if she loves you, all the charms prefiriéndote
Madrid, which, indeed, are a thousand times smaller than you think,
for the poor like us.

"Ines has not expressed, again, the desire to come. I am who I guess she this desire that has no
reason to feel and express. She can not say, "Come to see if I like and then talk, then I say yes
or you'll squash. "This, however, is reasonable.

"Moreover, I have nothing to say against your plans, but much to applaud. If you marry, must
stay there, where you are one of the first, and not come to large populations, where have
to be from the past.

"For men of a certain class and married women with certain conditions this life is terrible.

"To
you alone, you're my closest friend and loyal, I can tell you, and I can not help you tell you,
in order to alleviate the weight of my troubled heart, I am very unhappy.

"Beatriz married me for love. Despite the big age difference, I wanted to, not being inferior to those
seen here. I think that Beatrice is loving me, but the fear that I miss the affection, the suspicion
that the high opinion of me stooping to be formed continuous, it constantly startled me.

"The contempt is contagious. By dint of looking at my wife the poor performance I do, I neglected
I am, the lowly position I hold, do not end up neglected, too? Do not end up hate me if I considered
that the victim of my bad luck? Hence, although poor, was a lady of the first. Here is the
wife of a dark and miserable clerk, whom nobody pays any attention.

"I have my theory, I comfort of my bad luck and bag except my pride. But How to convert my wife
and make a believer of my theory? Does not it seem fake?

"My theory is as follows. I believe that understanding is one, and I imagine a tool for measure
you like the thermometer. Let's get it 100 degrees, which is round number, and 20, in my opinion,
sufficient for all practical life, if fortune is blowing and the circumstances are favorable. With
the 20 degrees it becomes minister extolled, prince of great merit, president of a republic,
a banker and even powerful cardinal and pope. To make all these moderately papers just half
the degrees, just 10. Let us, however, prodigious and awarded 20 of the notables of the highest
social and political life. All Grades of understanding that you have at top 20 will be not only
useless but harmful, you distract from what matters to your interest,
you will think in many cases unnecessary, not think that fools you
stirred up hatred of other men, or will make you look as an oddball,
quirky, and nothing will serve you if you do not reach the 100, which
and grades are genius.

May also excite your love hurt you and making you own think you're a genius or you're close
to it, which is likely to get in ridiculous. To be a genius required 100 degrees well covered,
and yet the genius is often left latent if not favorable destiny
brings out.

Then appear Cervantes, Newton, Shakespeare, Hegel and other such. While there does not appear
to be more deplorable and funny man that is, in our century, more than 20 degrees of understanding,
needed to reach to the most sublime of practical life, in the midst
of civilization or environment around us.

It is clear that, as mankind progresses, the level will rise and will need more degrees to the practical,
and in old age, it required less. In the wild, put by-case basis, only two or three degrees.
Not required to hunt and fish, to stratagems warrior, etc., but some cunning, a certain instinct
little higher than wild beasts.

All grades of understanding on this was then a man was Don funestísimo and absurd luxury. Now,
as the war have been applied to mathematics and other sciences and hunting and fishing in the
stock market in the Congress, in commercial and industrial companies, not shooting arrows,
but by creating securities, stocks, bonds and other projectiles complicated
grades needed are 20.

Again, as the world goes quickly, within a couple of centuries will be needed 40, but for now, is
already aviado the passing of 20. What a horrible nuisance in grades that you can spare! The sense
deeper, more philosophical, most momentous of the sentence is too clever by the superiority pitiful.
All fired the shots that escape through white top.

        Well above the critical killer all inspiration
      and kills you.

Do not do a thousand things because you seem silly, another makes, and thrives. Instead, what you
do to seem unobtrusive, or misunderstood, or judged only for success, which is often deplorable, seems
silly to everyone.

"This is, in short, my theory. In vain she tried to comfort me in my short venture, taking
the innocent vanity of believing more than 20 degrees and spend the
ready in deepest philosophical meaning of the phrase.

"This grim satisfaction that I give others is worth it convoluted
for my wife.

She does not look it's going to walk, living in poor house, no one attends, and that respect,
consideration and flattery that craves being surrounded by waning missing mine.

"I note, measure, calculated instant by instant the rapid progress that makes this evil in the heart
it. In this step I also ready. I'm ready to haunt me. I compare your doctor when he notices the
progress of tuberculosis in a loved one, provided the damage is to
do and not even know how to avoid or remedy.

"I see too well clear
contempt for me that is slowly entering the heart of Beatrice and
devouring the affection that I have. But how to prevent this? How
do I prove I'm worth more than the blessed and exalted and rich? The
speech made against them seem suggested by envy and makes me despicable
in his eyes.

"If I was young, beautiful and robust, I would hope
that it continue Beatriz loving, but no longer on a high opinion of
my clothes intellectuals, but I'm old and ailing, and I'm puny and
ugly as hell. I applied, therefore bitterly that question the poet:

What
is the devil, Christ lives!, If you remove the view ready?

And without
hesitation I answer: Nothing. Soon there will be nothing left for
me in the heart of it, but offensive compassion, if not spend all
that takes pity herself. And you better not feel sorry for me. Well
our immortal writer says: "And above all, heaven forbid you have anyone
you pity. "

"I explode, I would drown if you do not communicate with
someone my troubles. That's why I entrust you. Beatriz sees nothing.
How, why, for what reason to complain to her and she?

"I love her
with all my heart, and need to be happy that she loves me and respect
me. But that that love requires love is a lie. Nor do I want to love
me and respect me for fulfill an obligation, under a contract.

"I
see, then, I'll lose everything in the soul of Beatrice, and do not
give to know that I see. Clearly perceive the abyss I'll fall, and
keep walking towards it, not that I can turn the other way or fill
up the gap.

"This is my horrible situation. No one, or yourself,
should trust it, but need to deposit someone my secret pain. Come
over here to comfort me. See also Inesita. Did you love. It is a good
and loving as Beatrice, and has no ambition and Beatrice