 Certainly,
these reliefs were once loving some bickering between them. Because less loving and tolerant with
the child had shown were most extreme now man. This out of their boxes to Ms. Eloisa, Mrs. Teodora
and Ms Marciala, who always treated him with gentleness and even
mime.

Preparations began for the first mass. It was a contest of beauties among them. The rich, as
Ms Eloisa and Mrs Theodora, was commissioned to buy the cup and costly ornaments, which did not
have such good fortune, as Ms Rita Ms Filomena and others, supplemented money with the skill of
their hands embroidering the alb, stole and altar cloth, which caused admiration. Fixed the
church and took part in the decoration not only these women, but many of the people, their friends.
It was an event Peñascosa brand, both for the quality of the people who had paid for the career
of the young priest, for the terrible circumstances that had led to such protection. The officiating
was named godmother to Ms. Eloisa, an indication of that. None had better right to it, but all
are believed to both, and this again cause some palabrillas secret resentments and unpleasant.
The pay he returned to the village and sang with weak and trembling
voice: - Dominus vobiscum.

All the voices of the podium, tears and waterfalls, he was told accompanied
by the roar of the organ: - Et cum spiritu tuooooo. - What is white!
- Said a young artisan's companion at his side. - Looks like a picture.

Sang
D. Narciso high-pitched voice, lowering and raising the tone and
listened with pleasure, the epistle. - Child, how repicotea the chaplain!
- Repeated the craft. - You see, there is the daughter of the hunchback.

Want to show off. He was very kind accredited in the town that D.
Narciso and Osuna girl felt a mutual inclination, but only the spirits
heterodox and thugs dared to say aloud.

D. Narcissus was indeed given much to live among the weaker sex to
enter the fort.

So would Sarrió came
about three years, more or less, was the idol of the ladies of Peñascosa
an elegant carriage, which was opposed to the sloppiness of most of
the priests of the town, for his cheerful conversation, for his little
jokes and, above all, his hobby to be always among them.

Was far from being beautiful or handsome, was a man of about thirty-five,
dry, dark, big feet and juanetudos and ugly teeth, but had managed
to pass at once funny place.

He never talked seriously to her devoted friends. Little joke goes,
has little joke, a compliment to this, a chufleta to another, without
ever to be shortened in the middle of a large circle.

In contrast, D. Narcissus extremely
pleased about it, enjoyed field only in the henhouse.

Directed the consciousness of most of them and berate them was permitted
outside the confessional, sometimes harshly.

Almost all corrections received their submission, even with pleasure,
and if you temporarily revolted, was to demand forgiveness immediately.

With this, Don Narciso was the guest at every party obliged and Gaudeamus
Peñascosa fashionable society, ate voraciously, and flaunting it, drank
the same tenor, and when the desserts arrived, never failed to provide
it with some coplita was almost always dirty.

Because D. Narcissus, who because of his ministry could not be approved
jokes concerning sex relationships to sex, it was believed with the
right to drop the most nasty about other miseries of the human body.

And ladies bizarre case! the laughing and celebrating as if they were prodigious cleverness
and wit. Two years after arriving in the village had been a failure. Down the stairs of a certain
house that he frequented a lot, broke his leg. They said the lady's husband, who owned the house,
had helped him to fall, not entirely agree with the time and occasion of their visits, but the
moment the good souls of Peñascosa rushed to quell this rumor sacrilegious. And as proof of
the indignation with which rejected the case, most leading ladies of the town were established
in nurses beside his bed, not leaving a single moment, day and night taking turns every few hours,
as if the Blessed hiciesen guard . D. Narciso deserved these attentions of the fair sex. No harder
and never dealt fervent zeal for the salvation of the beautiful half of mankind.