 And
I said to myself: Happy Linilla! Loves and is loved!

...

In principle, the fires that time.

Neither Gabriel nor I returned his face to the street.

They burned tires and wheels, thundered the Marquesas, colorful fireworks
flew into the air, and We did not look anything.

Gabriel continued:

- Tell me .... Is not it true that you're in love with Linilla?

I could not utter a word.

- Is not it true that you love each other?

Answer me, Rudolph!

- Listen to me before, Gabriela, such happy news with you so happy.

-
Oh, - burst the beautiful lady, illuminated by multicolored lights
reflections Bengal .-- So glad !.... I want you to share my happiness!

Gabriela sensed what was going to say. As an invisible being whispered
into my ears.

Narrowed eyes, dazzled by the general fire tree fire, and through the red spot perceived hurt
my eyes, I thought I saw Angelina's face pale and tearful.

- Tell me, I said very quietly Gabriela ...-- ....

- I wrote! I wrote! A very tender letter, a very heartfelt letter!

- Who?

- Ernesto.

- Yes?

- Does it surprise you?

- No ... but not expected.

The resolution of you ... the wishes of Don Carlos ....

- My father will transfer .... As for me .... I am a woman, that is,
I am weak.

Ernesto loves me, I'm sure of it!

... Now I write, begging my forgiveness.

Begs, pleads, and I can not despise because I love him .... Much
a woman can .... I will kill you in the heart of fatal passion Ernesto
... I will be your guardian angel ... and when I see you regenerated,
if it no longer forever that horrible vice ... Give you my hand!

They say I'm beautiful, they say I'm intelligent, I'm kind .... Well, all these qualities
will serve to redeem me .... Do you approve my thoughts?

- And if you do not get what has been proposed?

- So .... Then I'll
love him like now!

If it's my first love, my only love!

The poor lady looked down, and was thoughtful and silent. Entered through a window flood of light,
and stay, almost dark, lit with melancholy moonlight. The fireworks were over. Boot hundreds of
rockets, fired at once, leaving the atrium.

Stood, laying on the giant space curves, thundered overhead, and explosion flowed streams of
gold dust, hundreds of lights that resembled descending a shower
of stones.

The brass band was playing the National Anthem released.

Gabriela Domino his dejection, and said quietly, with stealth expressive accent:

- Today I said to Ernest. Dad ignores it, just you know .... Tell me, Rodolfo: Want Angelina you
well, as I want to Ernesto?

- Yes.

- "And she loves you?

- Yes, very much! I do not deserve it!

- Well, my friend, are you worthy of it!

The party was over, the crowd dispersed, and the circles of Don Carlos
out looking for ladies to say goodbye.

Half an hour later I was in my house. I locked myself in my room and wrote very long letter.
Ay! A letter that never reached Angelina.

LXI

At seven, tired of waiting for my aunt Pepilla, I sat at the table. Jane was quick to serve.
In those moments came the old woman.

- Oh, Rorra!

What will you say to me! But, son of my soul, what mass so long!

Have you had breakfast?

No? Well here's companion .... Come on, Jane, suddenly prontito,
see you have Rorra go!

...

Pepilla aunt put at one end of the table the book and the rosary,
and taking off her shawl threw himself on the back of a chair.

-
Are you going today?

- Yes, aunt, then we end.

There on my desk is a letter to Linilla. You send it to who comes from San Sebastian. Today
or tomorrow will come the boy ....

- If you saw, Rorra, - said my aunt hastily - I already coming into
care.

Ago more than two weeks that we have no news of Angelina.

Before ... Go!

... Holy Week ... Guests then ... but now ... Castro Pérez girls
came from anti .... Why not write to them?

- Thus would no longer
boring!

- Maybe .... Would you like butter?

Joan, you bring the butter!

I will write this afternoon, so if anyone comes not have to wait
.... Then I have to go to the races.

- Listen, Aunt: If Angelina
writes, as you know, then lueguito, I sent you, the letter.

Mauricio tell you to go through here every day.

- Well!

I will send him clothes. Mauritius has the face of this good boy. How friendly! How well spoken!

The
aunt was released chatting happily. I was very happy, very happy.

What fun, Rorra, how nice! Nothing to deal with the kids .... From
the first day I relax .... I have children already here!

For that Angelina! ... Same as care for a sick! ... I've already said, Rorra, if Angelina does
not marry a sister has to stop of Charity. Its aim, son, is calling!

The other day I told the P. Solis and I said, 'You're right!

"

- Go with you and the P. Solis!

Angelina nun? God forbid! Linilla be wife and mother ....

The old woman looked at me intently, and smiling, he said:

- Would you marry Linilla?

- From all my heart!

- That marriage would be very much to my taste.

They say, but I do not think so, you're in love Gabriela ....

- No, aunt!

You know people say how it happens ....

- For better, child, the better!

I'm very fond of Linilla!

... Gabriela is very elegant, very nice, very rich, how you want!
but where is Angelina ....

It was necessary to leave.

- Well, Aunt
...-- said getting up - it's time, horse riding ....

- Do not say
goodbye to your godmother?

- Yes, why not!

We went to the bedroom.

Aunt Carmen was near the bed, sit-in his chair.

I was laughing and loving.

- Have you leave?

- Yes, Aunt ... I arrive early.

I never saw her more pale and weak, barely heard what he said was almost complete paralysis.
The poor old woman had an arm motionless and fingers contracted.

Extremity had lower strength, the feet were swollen.

- Rorra: - exclaimed Aunt Pepilla - tell your sponsor that you recommended
the doctor.

- Yes, aunt, exercise, plenty of exercise, even around
the room every day, a lap one, godmother!

That being so, sitting, sitting all day, can not be good ...

- But ... if ... I can not! - muttered.

- An effort ....

Aunt Pepa waved me that I saw the feet of the patient.

The was so swollen barely fit into the slippers.

- Right, godmother, you will do everything you send the doctor? -
I said yes, moving head.

- Are not you take drugs?

He smiled and gave a nod .-- Aunt Pepilla eyes were wet. I approached, and kneeling beside
the chair I wanted to hug the old lady.

- Farewell, Auntie! I will come next week.

- Well ... good! - said with great difficulty, and a voice so weak that hardly heard Want .--
God will find me alive! I'm very bad ... but ... Sarmiento neither this nor want to believe.

-
No aunt! - Burst out laughing .-- Are you nervous, why are you so weak ....

- Go ... go, - he said, smiling painfully - give me a hug ....

When I got up and leaned over to kiss her forehead, I saw that the
pale cheeks of the patient two tears rolled two tears of those who
in the face of a corpse appear drops of dew in the bosom of a white
rose.

I left the room with a broken heart.

Aunt Pepa I was silent and downcast ....

Finally he spoke:

- What do you say that?

- Nothing, aunt, that if I had my ... I would not leave me! ...

- When you go back?

- On Sunday .... Ask license.

- Yes, yes, come .... Behold, I stand alone, all alone! ...

- Tell Andrew you come every night ....

- Be sure to come on Sunday!

- I'll be here.

I did not go without talking to Sarmiento. I found him at home.

- Oh, boy .... Have courage! ... Trust in me .... If something seems I have serious, take to
let you know ... I do not want to live deceived .... All things come to an end .... The overall
condition of your aunt is bad, very bad, but again, for now there
is no fear .... Later, any day .... Finally .... God will tell!

Go with God.

Passing talked to Andrew.

- Do not worry, young master. I'll come every night .... Go quiet .... Last night I was with your
aunt and was very happy.

And took the road to the ranch. The heart was telling me that Aunt Carmen did not live long ....
Seven years of disease! It's about time! ...

LXII

I dared not ask permission to go to Villaverde, although the news was received that afternoon
not good. Aunt Carmen had very slight fever. A cold, by way of doctor, and nothing else. However,
I was not alone.

We work on the desktop until eight at night, and sit at the table, I said Don Carlos:

- Tomorrow, after church, you write those letters, and in the afternoon we liquidation that. Gabriela
want some sheet music. I say they are on the piano, you pick them up and send them. There
on the table is the list ....

We dined happily. Mr. Fernandez was in a good mood, and chatted over
lunch to taste of the festival of Villaverde.

Then she talked about farm work and the works of railroad.

- Is to feel, - he said - that the railroad does not pass through Villaverde. Will be the city
Pluviosilla to get more out.

In its waters and its rivers have a source of wealth .... How many factories have now? A ....
For twenty years now and you'll see! ... It would be appropriate acquire land in Pluviosilla,
particularly near rivers .... Within a few years have to be worth twice what it now costs. Pluviosilla
will not be doubted, the first manufacturing city of the State and the Republic ....

The servants had already withdrawn. Mauricio appeared suddenly in the dining room saying someone
looking for me.

- Me? - Asked startled.

- Yes, bring a letter ....

- Who comes?

- I do not know.

I got up hastily in search of the unknown. I had two letters: one of Linilla and another of Aunt
Pepa. I ran to read.

- What? - Asked Don Carlos .-- Some care?

I opened the statement.

Contained only a few lines.

"Carmen is very serious.

And the doctor sent him to have and receive five Viaticum. Come then, then, ask permission,
that Don Carlos is not to deny it to you. Consider me. "

I put the little note in the hands of Don Carlos.

He read at a glance, and exclaimed:

- Well, saddle Mauritius and
Go away!

And addressing the young man added:

- You go with the Lord.

Half an hour later we were going, and good step on the way to Villaverde.

The

night was dark. Back in the heart of the Sierra flashed distant storm. Could be heard distant thunder,
distant, and from time to time, in the light of lightning, we discovered
the tops of distant mountains.

The sky was enveloped in a network of lightning.

Amenazábanos rain, big drops fell, and echoed in the nearby forest groves and the step of rushing
wind. Hissing snakes in the bushes of the road thousand insects buzzing
in the grass, and the sound of rain was approaching fast and scary.
The trees seemed spectra, the lights of the candles burning huts in
front of a corpse.

We went at a trot. I was silent and anxious, Mauricio
I was diligent and respectful. The rain did not invade the valley
in the mountains stopped, unloaded there, and soon was cleared heaven.
There, due to Villaverde, twinkling stars of the Big Dipper. The storm
was struggling, but weak and faint, in the far reaches of the Sierra.

"Death!
- I thought, while Maurice was whistling through his teeth melancholic
song .-- The death! I'll see her get ... has he come to this hour
.... I never thought mine, I loved, would die !»....

My heart ached,
and my thoughts went from one thing to another without stopping anywhere.
Complacióme memories of better years, adventurous days, I longed for
the tranquility of the school I spent two decades on, and it seemed
that the happy memories of childhood away from me sorrows and pains.
Angelina! Where was Angelina? I weep for the sick! Gabriela! How sweetly
consoled his friend! But then I fell into a depression just so great
could not quite guide the horse. "Why do people die? My God! Why?
- Repeated .-- I do want to take the poor old woman? "Fool of me that
i didn't think that death was so close! No, yes, I thought, I thought
many times, but always saw far Far! ... And now came suddenly, insidious,
unexpected ... cruel ... terrible! ... The dying - I said to myself
- it's like a shipwrecked swept away by the waves to win the fight
shore, all that love him want to save, and can not, and it is impossible,
every effort is useless ... unhappy and calling for help ... And does
not seem to hear! ... Horrible! Horrible!

Distraught, trembling,
I led me to God, asking for help, asking for a miracle ... The heart,
dog-tired, was insensitive, hampered intelligence did not succeed
to focus on anything ... until the heart regained strength. Then I
happened to all that was a horrible nightmare, which would raise comforted
and happy. But ah! reality was there before, cruel, relentless. And
pray devoutly, full of faith, faith of a saint, came to my lips and
the prayers I learned as a child, and recited carefully, paying the
soul and life into every phrase, every word, every syllable. Wanted
to get to Villaverde, and I was tempted to go back to the ranch, and
run, flee to the mountains, forests, to distant cities, to know nothing,
nothing that happened in my house. Wanted to see me surrounded of
my friends, all my friends, all to retreat into her affection as a
port of salvation .... I was afraid of being alone, and each time
he looked when Maurice was close to me ....

I do not know what time
it was when we went in Villaverde. After the checkpoint we continue
down the street Principal. It was deserted! Could not be otherwise,
but I hoped that was filled of people, friends who would come to meet
me and told me: "Fear not: everything has been a !...» dream

And
there was nobody, nobody! A dog howling in an alley. The dozing in
serene the corners, sitting near his flashlight, got up on hearing
the passage of horses, waved, and went along the sidewalks lazy and
distracted .... The headlights dim shone here and there with red light
in the darkness of the streets, like candles in funeral pomp.

A few
minutes and I would be at the bedside of the sick. Pneumonias and
fevers Villaverde pernicious are terrible, just resist them elderly,
poor and my godmother, ailing, weak, exhausted by long sufferings,
would have to succumb. But, why, if we wanted So ... if it was so
good, so loving ... If he was a saint!

- Over here, sir, will arrive
here soon ...-- said Mauricio, who was next to me .-- I I know very
well the streets, because before I came every day to sell milk.

I
followed him without hearing what the boy said. I rang in the deserted
street, the passage of horses!

- Here! - Mauricio said, stopping
the horse.

- It is here ....

- Yes, sir.

- The entrance was open.
For a window came a flood of light.

I understood everything. I felt
that I tore the heart, my blood was up to the brain. To dismount the
horse saw, unwittingly, the body of my godmother. Was veiled with
a cloth white.

Andrew greeted me in his arms.

- Well you said what
my heart!

Hesitant, not knowing what I did, I went to the room, leaning
on the server that is not noble could contain the sobs.

Aunt Pepa
came to meet me, leaned on my shoulder the grizzled head, and without
saying a word hugged me tightly.

LXIII

When we returned from the
cemetery I went to my room. Andrew followed me there. Sitting around
intended to distract me I know not what stories of my childhood. I
heard no answer. Suddenly my aunt came.

- Rorra: I got a letter from
Angelina?

- No.

- Why not? I sent you yesterday with the boy who
was, to call ....

- You're right.

I got up and went looking for
the letter. I had it in the pocket of her blouse.

"Rodolfo:

"Forgive
me if this card fills you with bitterness. I know that you love me
and understand my words will hurt the heart, but someday, when you're
happy, because today you're not, you'll thank me what now has to cause
you much grief.

"Forget, forget, I beg, I beg for the holy memory
of your parents who are in the sky, your aunts, who both want and
love you so much!

"In writing these lines I'm in tears, I feel that
my soul is going, because I have loved you and I love you even with
all the strength of my heart, but I understand that I must be frank,
that would be wrong, very wrong, if yours encourage a feeling that
it closes the doors to a future that I should not spoil