 A single source of sadness clouded and
in light of his thoughts serene. An impious and sacrilegious hands had stolen from the cathedral
a small, artistic and gorgeous, custody. How great would be the joy of Prisca when learned from
the canon, his confessor, a very rich and pious man had sent enough money for another custody, similar
to the stolen and no less beautiful, be at the cost and outside his the ornament and glory of this
church! True architect of considerable merit, or obscure Arfe Cellini, olvidadoen the center
of this provincial town, making the new custody reproducing inspired breathtaking beauties in ancient
few seemed. Prisca, old man's friend architect, goes daily to see and celebrate progress in the
manufacture of new custody. Strange, complicated and passionate mix of emotions stirred the hearts
and minds of Prisca when he learns that the person who made the generous donation is the boyfriend
who had abandoned, which rich and happy lives in very distant regions! Unable to resist his weakened
body to the violence of the emotions that stir the spirit, Prisca falls ill of fatal illness,
and breathed his last when finished and the new custody, passes in solemn and triumphant procession
through the door of his house. The memories of puppy love and the later mysticism of life Prisca
amalgamate and melt gently in his soul in those last moments, purifying and exalting in such a
way past love earth, not heaven's sake profane or put the slightest stain on cleaning.

Without affectation of archaism and purism, but in the most natural
and spontaneous language Mr. Lee Roberts is pure and in all of his
stories, and scenes describing copied from the natural look, with
accuracy in the details, and without the author's small vexed by neat,
defects in which usually fall on a day not a few novelists.

Very reasonable hopes that Mr. Lee Roberts will be one of the best that Spain can boast this
century, give us the short stories written and published by him when is still very young.

III

Another notable talent as an author of books unknown to me at least so far, is D. Adelard Ortiz
de Pinedo.

The work of his recently published and have read with great interest,
is entitled The chasm.

If the clothes of a novelist are sharp and insightful talent observation, the final skill
for drawing and painting style characters, and the art of combining events and circumstances to
develop an action lead to the evolution with increasing speed and ensure it reaches the end
and outcome that the author fixed, we may ensure that Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo has these items and is
known to be or is already a novelist short no merit. Topped off with a view straight and severe,
it is to give excellent lessons moral and do not use it impertinent speeches, but getting
born or derived of the same events that counts. To achieve this end is, finally, on the clear
real world view and society in which they live, the powerful imagination and art should with inventing
the facts, incidents and conflicts, and groups and ordered by moving to a purpose determined.

The gulf, however, has, to my way of feeling, a little bit funny, that I dare not failing to qualify,
but I would be glad to disappear in other works where the type. I have no doubt that I will write,
for he has shown great willingness in the already written, and the
deserved applause with which the public will encourage insurance.
