 The
flexible, more flexible, flabby character of the widow, was adapted to the feeling and thinking
Juliana, and seeing this that it ran between the fingers that bread crumbs, pellets made with
it. Doña Paca not breathe without the permission of the tyrant, who for the most insignificant
acts of life, had quite a few orders that dictate to the unhappy lady. It came to having a childhood
fear, it felt soft crumb inside the bronze hand beading and indeed it was not just afraid, for
he mingled with some respect and admiration.

Lay the lady from the bustle of the day, and stuck all the furniture, dishes and pots in the
new house and attacked an intense sadness that devoured the soul, called her tirana to say, "You
have not explained well by the way we speak.

What stories Nina has its moro? Is this good-looking? ".

Juliana gave the explanation that he asked his subject, without hurting Nina and put it in wrong place
demonstrated in this fine touch.

"And stay ... that it can not come to me, for fear that plague us
from getting filthy.

You did well. If not for you, I would be exposed, God knows, we stick to the plague ... Get over
that would collect leftover food. But this is not enough, and I would happy to point out a
number, for example, a penny daily. What?

- I say that if we start with those jokes, Mrs. Dona Paca, Peñaranda
again soon.

No, No: a quarter is a quarter ... Pretty Nina has two real. So I thought, and if you have
something else, I wash my hands.

- Two real, two ... You have said ... and simply, yes. Do you know the miracles that Nina half penny? ".

In
this Daniela was very alarmed, saying Frasquito knocked on the door, and Obdulia, that the sight
had seen, felt that it was opened, to avoid another scandal such as Imperial Street. But who
told him the address of the new home? No Polidura doubt was the snitch, and Juliana is sworn
to snatch his ear. The mishap occurred Get serious while calling with nervous fury, determined
to break the bell, rose Hilaria street and opened the latch-key and
there was no possible way to cut the intruder, who rushed in, appearing
before the frightened ladies with their hats pulled down ears, brandishing
the cane, the great detriment and clothing stained with dirt and mud.

It He had twisted his mouth, and painfully dragged his right leg.
"By God, Frasquito - Doña Paca said pleading - we do not riot. You
are wrong, and should go to bed. 