 As you are so lofty, and do not remember of these
poor ... Good lottery you have fallen! No, do not deserve you, but I recognize that you good ...
Better luck ...! Sit ... Augustine wants to live with us, and we have no objection to it ... On
the contrary, we are pleased. I do not know if you can accommodate in this narrowness, because
as you get the idea of ??living in those palaces, this will seem like a cabin. "

Recovering, "said the girlfriend who was very grateful, but can not leave her alone sister, continued
to live at home, without going to Rosalia, as always, help as I could.

"Go

with Augustine, and how quiet it was! This man is all mystery. For you see, I do not would
trust a lot ... Yes, you can be here all day, eat with us, what little there. Then you go you to
your castle, and we will stay in our hut. Surely that bother you ... See what I doing now
with you ... Mom! But Augustine and you, what do not I? Sit ... I sew these sleeves ... Oh,
no, what audacity! Sorry. "

- Yes, yes, come ... Then there was always more ...

Bringas, who had just shaving in his room, left without wiping his glasses on the dining room rosy
face and highly polished.

"Amparo, how are you? I, well.

Ah, bribonaza, what luck you had! ... You owe it to me.

Good things I told you cousin ... I've put parsley leaf, as you suggest.

The truth, I have loved ... This could be entitled The reward of virtue. Is what I say, the merit
is always rewarded.

"

Shortly after this, Bringas and his wife are secreted into the office.

"Augustine is going to have carriage. It has already commissioned
Paris. "

- Ah !...-- exclaimed the lady, spongy, and it seemed to
be sprawling in the soft car of your friends.

- We need to treat
her well. Will pass in all theaters.

- Amparo - Pipaón said shortly
after his protegee -; look, do not get tired at the sight point so
often. Tomorrow or go with me to the shops. Augustine has instructed
me to you make multiple purchases, and you see ... should you give
your mind and choose what you like, since everything is for you