 

At this point, bringing Avocado Street, the two black crossed that of O'Reilly, and indicated Genevieve
pass, finger, Mary Rule the house, then closed, where he died the old lady talking. In the immediate
street from the pump, the guide turned left and called the third door on the right with the
customary cry of: Caserito! Not my decision na today?

Answered the call nothing less than Nemesia Pepper, known only from the seller and its parishioner
recently, completely unknown to the former nurse at La Tinaja. While that served pork, butter and
eggs they asked, it had been left something behind, stitched to the wing closed, reported to
taste a good portion of the room. Leaning against the side walls to the street, sat on a swing
feet on the rung of the chair before him, a young Mary Rule it seemed white. This color was
her dress, but the black cambric handkerchief belting his turning neck on the copious black hair
braids crowning fact the well-modeled head black shoes the golden carriage that held her little
feet high tops and arched bridge, the beautiful stranger wearing mourning in the body and heart,
as the deep sadness that we announce both his face and attitude. For garments clothes that
looked at the floor in the back of the chair and in the same lap, she started see stitching,
of whose work did not look up but at times your partner, which treated the same way, opened
the front door and helped to lay in the doorway the board's heavy selling.

In order to fix the witch of the mourning picture in the living memory of Mary of Regla could
not be more appropriate occasion, and so it was, then repeated in
a whisper, step behind its protective: - The girl Adela!

Adela girl!, Beyond comparison in its mind the face of it with the youngest of his love.

As the butcher hear the refrain, said in a tone of repression:

- Ah! That nine no Nama Adel, Sesil Nama.

Better to keep quiet, she thought the rule and said no word, but stood his ground, for As he
continued to believe that singular resemblance between the girl and the mourning of the house
across the street from the firehouse, whose description saved for
the first opportunity.

Even the two p.m. walked the black wandering the city streets and in the part time butcher achieved
silver reducing the effects had on the board. For popularly called the gate of the Wall, came
to Alameda and sat on a seat stone, protected by a leafy tree, between
the old café in Athens and the statue Carlos III.

A dirty canvas bag whose mouth was collected with a string, and wore Genoveva within, removed and
counted to twelve dollars in Seville ESP, and means royal silver of which, net of seven, more
or less cost of goods traded, played down a net gain of five dollars. No knowledge of the numbers required
to make account, and no more convincing argument to prove the remuneration
of that industry.

Convinced it was decided to adopt Maria de Regla.

He spoke after what she said about her husband, wound he had received in quarrel, by that same
neighborhood, and its disappearance from the day before Christmas Eve. Then Genevieve recalled
having heard from Malanga, who by that time had a tan that covered found badly wounded at the entrance
to Broad Street. This species was confirmed in all the forklift truck
parts water carrier, who just before his evil son, it will be recalled,
passed by and not stopped because he judged the wounded died