 To find it would not be collating all the chronologies of fashion, because by
dint of being old wearing chisterómetro of the nearly modern era, and this illusion the delusion
that helped plush, as well smoothed with loving parental care. The other clothing, if the hat
matched in longevity, could not emulate him in the dissimulation of years of service, because
with so many twists and transformations, and many routes needle passes and iron, and were but a
shadow of what they were. A gabancillo summer clarucho, using D. Bottle at all times: his garment
was less inveterate, and he served for hide, closed to the neck, everything else that had less
than half of the pants. What was hidden beneath the garment that only God knew Ponte.

Most harmless person I do not think has ever existed, most useless, either. That Ponte had not
never served at all, as attested to his misery, impossible to hide in that sad West of your
life. Fortunilla inherited a regular, played some good destinations, and did not care or family
responsibilities, they froze in celibacy, first worship himself, after having lost too much time looking
for scruples and criteria too rigid a marriage of convenience, not found or could find, with
the goodies and perendengues he wanted. At the time there was still no word corny, Ponte Delgado
devoted his life to society, dressed with elegance affected often do not tell the rooms, because
then little used this name, but some good home podium and distinguished. The actual rooms were
few, and Frasquito, though in his old age was gala have entered them, the truth was that neither
knew the lining. In chat rooms haunting and attending dances, as well as casinos and convention
centers male Not to mention that out of tune, but neither was known for his wit, nor for that noble
blend correction and careless elegance which is true. Very estiradito always, that yes, very attentive
to his gloves, his tie, his small feet, it was pleasing to the ladies no interest one, tolerable
for men, some of which will truly estimated.

Only in our heterogeneous society, free from scruples and distinctions, that is the case a hidalguete,
holder of four homelands, or a medium-wage clerk was confused with
Marquis and blue blood counts, or the heroes of money, false centers
elegance come together and alternate operating the sumptuous life
of their business or their vanity, or by daring affairs, and those
who go to dance and eat and socialize with Ladies, no other object
than to obtain recommendations for promotion, or for a Head to miss
impunity office hours.

Do not say this for Frasquito Ponte, the which was more than a fine ragamuffins times its
social heyday. Its decadence began to manifest itself in a noticeable way to 59, fought heroically
to 68, and to come this year, marking the destination table with very black line, desplomose
the unhappy lover in the depths of misery, to rise no more. Years before, ate the last remains
of his fortune. The destination with great difficulty could get Gonzalez Bravo, took it ruthlessly
revolution did not have unemployment, there was no able to save. The wretched abode without
income the day and night, and compassion some good friends who sat at his table. But good
friends died or were tired, and relatives showed no compassion. Starved, nakedness, deprivation
of all who had been his greatest pleasure, and so tremendous crisis, his innate gentleness
and self-esteem were as a millstone around the neck so soon sank and drowned: there was a
man able to pester your friends with requests for money, vulgar saber, and only in rare Sometimes
true critical cases or threat of death in the struggle with poverty, is ventured to reach
out to demand relief, magazine, yes, to save However, a glove, although tattered and torn,
glove was the end. Before dying of hunger Vial, to do anything without dignity. It was a case
of get dressed in the tavern of Boto, to eat two cooked real, rather than be in a good house, where
if you admitted with open arms also hurt his dignity with cruel jokes, rubbing in the face his
sponging and parasitism.

With agonizing effort sought the unhappy livelihood, even those from the less lucrative but the shortness
of their talents more difficult that in all cases is difficult. Both stirred, he could finally
find some empleíllos, certainly unworthy of its previous position but allowed to live some
time without stooping. Their misery, after all, could decorated with a veneer of dignity. Receive
a short pecuniary assistance as an intern school, or as a clerk boatmen Segovia Street, to bring
the accounts and put the letters, was begging certainly, but so well disguised that there was
no disgrace to receive it. Dragged for a few years life miserable, lonely dweller neighborhoods
South, not daring to go to the Centre and North, for fear of finding
knowledge being seen worse ill shod and clothed, and having lost those
accommodations sought others accepting the order, not without scruples
and crispaduras nerve, the position of broker or salesman a soap factory,
to go from shop to shop and house to house offering gender, and placing
the items could.

But so little malice labia and the poor man unfolded chalanesco in this job, soon had to stay on the
street. Recently assigned him to the sky around the Costanilla old ladies of St. Andrew, to
take them accounts of a trade remaining wax, which liquidated, yielding stocks in small lots
parishes and congregations. Work was scarce, but he gave only two pesetas a day, with which performed
the miracle of living, agencies, food and bedding, and do not say home, because it really did
not.

Already 80, he was the terrible year for the hapless Frasquito was determined to have no home,
and after a few days of horrific crisis that could be compared to the snail, for the one to take
home with them, was understood to Bernarda Sena, the owner of the bedrooms Noon Street Grande,
willing woman and knew distinguish. For three real bed gave him a penny, and unique gift to the decency
of the customer, for only one real addition let him have his trunk inside a small room, where
he also allowed spend an hour every morning straightening her clothes, and grooming with their
sinks, cosmetic and hands of dye. Came as a corpse, and left unknown, clean, fragrant and bright
beauty.

The peseta remaining employed in eating and dressing ... Huge problem, algebra impossible!
With all its troubles, this season gave him on break, because they suffered the humiliation
ask for help, and good or bad, wrong or right, the man had a way
of living, and living and breathing, and still had plenty of time
to give some back flips and imaginary spaces.

Obdulia his honest dealings with that knowledge came from Doña Paca and trade relations of the
old chandlers with burial, father of the child, if carried to the spirit of the Ponte comfort
from the consistency of ideas, tastes and hobbies, put him in the serious commitment neglect the
needs of the mouth to buy some new boots, since that time complained bitterly exclusively serving
horribly disfigured, and all passed the needy least come with ugly foot in the regions of the
ideal.

XVII

With the terrible imbalance brought to the dwindling budget, new boots and other True redundancy
items such as cream, cards, etc., in which it was necessary invest sums on account, it was entirely
empty Frasquito belly and without knowing where or how he had to fill it. But Providence, which
never abandons the good, afforded him a remedy in the house itself Obdulia, which killed some
days hunger, begging to accompany her to lunch, and of course I had to spend not a little saliva to slow
you down, and overcome his shyness and delicacy. Benin, which he read in his face starvation,
spent less Mademoiselle labels, and served him roughly, laughing at the fuss and Repulgue that
was delicate way to acceptance.

That day, that appeared so sinister, and that the appearance of Benin
changed to one of the happier, and Frasquito Obdulia, as they realized
that the problem was solved organic repair, threw a hundred million
miles from reality, to space their souls in the rosy atmosphere of
the real sham.

Ponte's ideas were very limited: they could purchase in the twenty
years of its social heyday were petrified, not to them was amended,
nor acquired new.

Misery snatching him from his old friends and relationships, and as his body is mummified, his
thinking was becoming fossil. In its thinking, did not exceed 68 lines and 70. Knew all the
things you know world was no man fallen from a nest or clouds, judged event and innocent people
innocence. The shame of their distressing withdrawal state and therefore had no little part in
his mental backwardness and poverty of thought.

For fear of being seen had a facade, he spent weeks and even months without leaving their neighborhoods;
and as I had not imperative that the center call him, did not go to the Plaza Mayor. She continually
random centrifugal monomania, preferring for his rambling streets
dark and lost, where you rarely see a top hat.

In such places, and enjoying of rest, time without fee and loneliness, his imaginative power
was reliving the happy times, or created in these people and things to taste and miserable
as the dreamer.

In his talks with Obdulia, never ceased to refer Frasquito its social and elegant life other
times, with interesting details: how it was presented at the gatherings of lords Tal, or What
Marquise, what distinguished people he met, and what were their characters, customs and dress.
Listed the sumptuous houses where he had spent happy hours, knowing the very best of Madrid
in both sexes, and recreating with entertaining talks very nice and hobbies. When the conversation
fell on matters of art, Ponte, raving for music and the Real, humming pieces of Norma and Maria
di Rohan, who listened Obdulia ecstasy.

Other times, rushing to poetry, verses recitábale D. Gregorio Romero Larrañaga and other poets of
those times silly. The radical ignorance of the young was their own land for these trials of
literary education, it was all new, all caused the rapture would feel at seeing a creature
toys for the first time.

There is never satiated girl (who is forced to call it that, despite
being married, with the abortion appropriate) to acquire and news
reports of the life of society, because although some had knowledge
of it, by vague memories of his childhood, and so her mother was told,
was in the descriptions and most charming Ponte paintings and poetry.

No Indeed, the company Frasquito time was more beautiful than the coeval finest men funniest
ladies and spiritual. A plea for it, described the fossil elegant banquets, dances, with all its
magnificence, the buffet or snack bar, with its variety of dishes and refreshments, had love
affairs that gave their time to speak; listing the rules of good manners then, even the tiniest
details of life luxuries was in use, and did the eulogy of the beauty that shone in his time, and had
already died or were cornered oldies. No ink was left in their own little adventures, or rather
first steps of love, or the inconvenience that such abuses had with husbands escamones or siblings
susceptible. In the result, had also its corresponding match, go! with sponsors, conditions, choice
of weapons, bickering, and finally, the clash of swords, ending all in fraternal lunch. Day after
day, was counting the number of incidents of social life, which contained all the varieties
of debauchery naive, elegance poor and righteous nonsense.

It was also a great fan Frasquito stage art and represented in various roles in home theaters one
day Flower Braid of her hair. Even sandwiches recalled parliament and both works, which he repeated
with emphasis declamation, and listened with rapture Obdulia, wiped tears in his eyes, by the
a phrase of the time. He also referred, and it had to use two sessions and a half dancing costumes
gave back Maricastaña years, a woman or Baroness Marquesa for I do not know how many. Frasquito
not forget, if you lived a thousand years, this great feast, attended Calabrian bandit. And
remember everyone, absolutely everyone's costumes, and described and specified, not to mention ribbons
or gallon. Certainly preparations their dress, and steps had to be taken to procure the items
characteristics, robbed long day and night, she missed weeks at the office, and he came here the
first dismissal, and severance his first arrears.

Although in very small scale, could also meet other curious Frasquito Obdulia: curiosity, or rather
illusion of travel. Had not been around the world, but had been to Paris! and elegant, this may
suffice. Paris! And how was Paris? Obdulia eyes devoured the narrator, when referring to the
wonders hyperbolic outbursts big city, no less than in the splendid time of the Second Empire.
Ah! The Empress Eugenie, the Champs Elysees, the boulevards, Notre Dame, Palais Royal ... and that
enter description all, Mabille, the Loreto! ... Ponte was not more than six weeks, living with
a great economy, and making very good time, day and night, so it does not will be nothing to
see. In those forty-five days of freedom from Paris, enjoyed it unspeakable, and brought to Madrid
memories and impressions that count for three consecutive years. All I saw, big and small,
beautiful and strange, stuck his nose around a little girl, and not I must say that was permitted
little debauchery, desiring to know the secret charms and seductive thanks to enslave all peoples,
making them tributaries of the voluptuous Lutetia.

Just that day, while diligently sum Benina fretted in the kitchen and dining Obdulia bottle telling
things in Paris, and soon, in a picturesque story down sewers, such as climbing on the tower
of the artesian well of Grenelle.

- Too expensive to be living in Paris - said his friend -. Ah! Mr. de Ponte, that's not for poor.

-
No, do not believe you. Knowing handled, you can live as you want. I spent four Napoleons five
newspapers, and nothing I had seen. I soon learned correspondences of buses, and more distant
sites was for a few her. There Restaurane economic where you serve good food for little money. It
is true that in tips, that there call pour boire, spends more than necessary, but believe me,
gives them a taste to be seen with treated with kindness. Do not you hear more than pardon, pardon
all the time.

- But among the thousand things you saw, Ponte, you miss the best. Did you see the Great Men?

-
I'll tell you. As it was summer, the big men had gone to bathe. Victor Hugo, you know, was
emigration.

- And Lamartine, do not you see you?

- At the time, and the author of Graziella had died. One afternoon, the friends I accompanied
me on my walks home taught the Thiers, the great historian, and I also led to the cafe where,
for winter, I used to go to have a glass of beer Paul de Kock.

- Does the novels to laugh?

It's funny, but its indecency and filth annoy me.

I also saw the shoe store where you made the boots Octavio Feuillet. Certainly for me there I ordered
some, that cost me six Napoleons ... But what make, what kind! I lasted until the death of
Prim ..

- That Octavio, what is the author?

- From Sybil and other works all handsome.

- Do not Know ... I confuse him with Eugene Sue, who wrote, if I remember
correctly, the Deadly Sins and Our Lady of Paris.

- The Mysteries
of Paris, you mean.

- That ... Oh, I got bad when I read this work,
the impression I was!

- You are identified with the characters, and
lived their lives.

- Exactly.

The same thing happened to Mary or the daughter of a laborer ...».

In this Benina told them that I had prepared the pittance, and lacked
time to fall on it and do the honors due to the tortilla and marinated
pork chops with fried potatoes.

Owner of his will in any act that required finesse and good manners,
they are composed Ponte admirably with their nerves for not disclosing
the ferocity of his hunger late.

With benevolent trust, Benina would say, "Eat, eat, Mr. de Ponte, although this is not food
thin, like that you get in other houses, not hurts now ... Times are ill. We must apencar yet
...

- Lady Nina - replied the proto-cheesy - I assure you, on my word
of honor, that you an angel, I am inclined to believe that the body
you have embodied a being beneficial and mysterious, a being that
is mere personification of Providence, as understood and understand
the ancient and modern peoples.

- Válgate God knows, and salty says
what nonsense!

".

XVIII

With the substance restorative lunch, it seemed that resurrected bodies,
and spirits strengthened took flight to the higher regions.

Again installed in the cabinet Ponte Delgado told the delights of
the summer in Madrid at the time.

In the Prado met all the cream and flower. The station went well off the farm. He had visited
more than one Real time site, and had been running the sources.

"And I have not seen anything, nothing! - Obdulia exclaimed sadly, putting his beautiful eyes
a child bereavement -. Believe me, friend Ponte, which would have made me fool, if God had not
given me the ability to figure out the things I've ever seen. Can not you imagine how much I
love flowers, I'm dying for them.

In its time, mama let me have pots on the balcony, then I removed them because one day I watered
so much that rose police and threw us fine. Whenever I pass a garden, I gawk at him. Much I
would like to see those in Valencia, the Farm, in Andalusia! ... Here there are hardly any flowers,
and that we come by rail and arrive limp.

My desire is to admire in the plant.

They say there are so many kinds of roses, I want to see them, Ponte,
I want to smell their aroma.

There are large and small, crimson and white, of many varieties. I would like to see a plant jasmine
great, great, give me shade. And how would I enraptured me, seeing the thousand flowers fall on
my shoulders, and prendérseme in your hair! ... I dream of having a magnificent garden and a
stove ... Ay! these ranges with rare tropical plants and flowers, I would like to see them. I
figure, I watch the ... I am dying of grief for not being able to
possess.

- I've seen - Ponte said - that of D. José Salamanca in
its heyday.

You Figúresela bigger than this house and the next meeting. Just think palm trees and large
ferns height and cones of America with fruit. I think that I'm seeing.

- And me too. All you paint me, I see. Sometimes, dreaming, dreaming, and seeing things do not
exist, that is, exist elsewhere, I wonder: "But it could not happen that one day I had a magnificent
house, elegant lounges, stove ... and that at my table great men sit ... and I spoke with them and
they instruct me? ".

- Why has not it can be? You are very young, Obdulia, and still has much life ahead. All that you
see in dreams, see it as a real possibility to be unlikely. Give you food twenty covered, once
a week, on Wednesdays, on Mondays ... I encourage you, as old dog in society that do not put
more than twenty covered, inviting for those days very chosen people.

- Ah ... well ... best, the cream ...

- Other days, six guests, the guests intimate and nothing more persons of quality, You know
people close to you and to have love and respect.

As you are so beautiful worshipers will ... why can not avoid ... Not fail to be in any danger,
Obdulia. I advise you to be kind to everyone, very fine, very polite, but as soon as PROPASE
any, magazines dignity, and become colder than marble, and disdainful as a queen.

- That's what I thought myself, and I think all the time. I'll be so busy having fun, which I was
not anything bad happen. What a pleasure to go to all the theaters, no operating loss, or concert,
or drama or comedy feature, or release, or anything, Lord, no! Everything I see and enjoy ...
But believe me one thing and say it with heart. Amid all this hubbub, deal and I would enjoy
very much alms, would I go looking for the most destitute poor, to
succor y. ..

Anyway, I do not want there to be poor ... Right, Frasquito, not
be any?

- Certainly, madam.

You are an angel, and with the magic wand of his goodness will disappear all miseries.

- It appears to me that is true what you say. I am. You see what I get: a while ago we talked
about flowers, because I was already attached to the nose has a rich smell. Methinks I'm within
my range, seeing so many beauties, and smelling delicious fragrance. And now when we talked
about poverty relief, I came to say, 'Frasquito, bring a list of
the poor that you know, to start distributing alms.

"

- It quickly becomes, madam - Ponte said caught the imagination delirium, and thinking that should
lead the proposal with the name of the first world's needy Francisco Ponte Delgado.

- But we have to wait - Obdulia added, giving the snout against reality, to return to jump again,
like a rubber ball, and soar to the heights -.

And tell you: in that run by Madrid seeking to alleviate misery, I get tired a lot, right?

- But what do you want your cars? ... I mean, I am assuming that you have a great position.

-
I will accompany you.

- Sure.

- What you see him riding a horse down the Castellana?

- Do not say no. I have been a regular rider.

Not bad government ... Since we have spoken of carriages, I advise you not have garages ...
you mean by a renter. There are those who serve very well. You will remove a lot of headaches.

-
What do you think? - Said Obdulia and unbridled and unrestrained -.

Since I travel Where should I go first, to Germany or Switzerland?

- First to Paris ...

- But I suppose I've already seen Paris ... That's the last nail ...
And I: I say that I'm already in, and again on his way to another
country.

- The lakes of Switzerland are a fine thing.
