 But just down the street on the side of the de Compostela, and
was once again in the busy popular when he returned to their natural and liveliness of his
character. In fact to arrive at the Five Corners, a gentleman of medium reached age had the same
direction as the students. Leonardo put his arms under of their own, covered her eyes with both
hands and said, varying the accent: - Guess who I am.

In vain the stranger tried to free herself from the clutches of the student, perhaps persuasion that
the object of that violence was stealing from the light of day and the sight of the people. But
Leonardo, after he met classmates and curious crowd, let the man; and, hat in hand and head
bowed, in sign of respect and regret, said: - I ask you a thousand pardons, sir. I have had
a regrettable mistake, but You have to blame, because it looks like
my uncle Antonio as an egg to another egg.

The students burst into laughter, as well as the unknown gentleman, understanding mockery, broke
into expressions of bad temper and anger against spoiled and insolent youth of the time. Ridiculous
scene that happened faster than we have succeeded in painting, and, to contrast with it, not well
spent Leonardo Chacon Street, put the tip of rattan in a plump corn tortilla that was beginning
to brown in the heat of Buren a plumper black and still almost naked, leaning against the corner
wall and surrounded of their junk, and lifted into the air. Dyke made an exclamation of distress,
and straight in the dwarf seat, as was so fat and heavy, rolled out the little table before
him, where other tortillas and cooked, thereby increased its displeasure and is often their cries.
Everyone laughed at the occurrence, Diego Meneses, who, by one of those noble and generous
impulses of his good heart, drew from his waistcoat pocket a few real, they threw them into
the black bulky chest, and struck the deposit in the breast, Despite
the low neckline of their low body suit.

If this is passed the anger or ceased their cries, the students were not arrested find out. Later
in the street Tejadillo de Compostela cut square and then is that of the Stonehouse, said well
having been the first in which testing began pavement system of streets of Havana with Chinese
shot and stream in the middle. For Leonardo twisted her right, and after greeting his teammates
and tell their intimate Solfa Meneses and friends who could, if they wanted to wait in the square
immediately Santa Catalina, where he would meet with them within a quarter of an hour. But being and
lunch, after the manner of Cuba, they preferred to continue their
respective houses, and thus separated Leonardo till night in the exhibition
of the Holy Guardian Angel.

Once only a law student, he changed his pace and looking suddenly. He got serious and thoughtful,
much more than could be expected in a character so happy and lively. Was he worried too much the appearance
in Havana and at the fair, the young Alquízar Ilincheta who called Isabel. However they refused, he
loved her, and suspicious his sudden arrival time to give unpleasant revelations, above all,
the discovery from their whims, which, however perverted that had
a sense of decency, could not or fail to honor get the colors to the
face.

Several times he stopped and hit the tip of the stick in the narrow slab of sidewalk, luxury
which then enjoyed, among few others, the famous street of Stonehouse. Between following and
become fluctuated greatly, it is good to know that this was not the direction from home. He,
at last, a mighty blow others with the cane, threw it over his shoulder,
as usual, and hurried on, whispering: - What the hell! A really fits.
All this, for confirmed in the resolution adopted