 

1901

Professor Dean C. Worcester

dedicates this work

.= = The Author

ETYMOLOGY

OF

NAMES
OF RACES OF THE PHILIPPINES

BY THE

Dr. TH Pardo de Tavera.

After the story of a thousand and five hundred islands that make up
the Philippine Archipelago is that of the "hundreds of races that
inhabit the islands Babylonian confusion," as says a geographical
lyrical author who wrote about this country.

By omission of rocks, boulders, insignificant islets, many without
vejetación, others with only one species of birds and some insects
and wildlife, and most without a human being who will live in them,
are, as inhabited islands and only have, being the Philippines, a
few from Luzon, which is the largest, to that of Cagayancillo, which
is one of the tiniest.

So it is with the famous 'races' pompous name whose meaning has been
confused by applying it to political groups in no different from each
other.

Recent ethnographic studies have shown that the races that inhabit
our islands are three, viz: Negritos, Indonesian and Malay.

But these breeds are not only various miscegenation but a great variety of tribes mainly characterized
by languages ??or, rather speak Filipino dialects. If we will found in linguistic reasons for
give names to the different groups of men, the number of races called Philippine to be quite
grown, not yet come to the figure reached today and the teacher Blumentritt had the patient
work together in alphabetical order a brochure published in Spanish with the title "The races of
the Philippine archipelago."

As powerfully clear linguistic studies anthropological issues, I believed that would be useful
to information to establish the etymology of the names today apply
to the different tribes, with the name of races, Philippines.

Political divisions of the islands almost always respond to divisions based on language, so that,
beginning with taking charge of the names that characterize the provinces when these are applied
to groups that speak the same language, found on the island of Luzon the following: Tagalog, Pampanga,
Bicol, Pangasinan, sambal, Ilocano, Ibanag or Cagayan. After see that within each of these provinces
have different tribes, many with language carrying different, for this reason or another unknown,
a different name.

Visayas applies to three dialects spoken in Cebu, Iloilo and Negros: Calamian or Cuyo is also
pool name linguist and Mindanao to get see that not a territorial
division the character is already in Luzon.

Many tribes have by name, a geographical name: another reason is discovered topographic, or local
customs, or other relationship with neighboring tribes. Sometimes names are simply applied to local
residents, other times the source the name does not appear so clear and to discover its etymology
is to start by decomposing to discover the root as discussed below.

For convenience we divide the names that we shall study in the following groupings:

Compounds with the prefix Taga. "With the prefix I. "With the prefix A. "With the prefix Ma
"With the Non prefix. "With the prefix and suffix Ka W 'in other ways.

* * * * *

TAGA prefix.

This prefix, to join names, it means "native of it, natural."

       Used alone, has no significance whatsoever and we find the following
names to form clusters Ethnic: TAGALOG, TAGABALOY, TAGABAWA, TAGABULU,
TAGABELI, TAGACAOLO, TAGABANUA or Tagbanúas, etc. etc.

The meaning
of such code is provided for us Polynesian languages: in Samoa is
called taga-ta man, in Tahiti, losing the g we find the word taa-ta.

It is therefore undoubtedly that taga, prefix with no real meaning
today as isolated voice, originally meant "man."

Now, consider the etymology of the other voices to which we find attached, to name tribes more
or less important.

One of the major linguistic groups in the Philippines is composed
of the Tagalog with which name are called the inhabitants of the provinces
of Manila, Bulak, Nueva Ecija, Bataan, part of Tarlac, Laguna, Tayabas
and the District of Morong, with about 1,250,000 individuals.
