 

In this coming toward us from the top of the site, whose homes, like those of all mountain areas,
have no rhyme or reason to each other, a girl of good picture, with a highly polished copper
cauldron on his head, and a clay pitcher in each hand. The TARUMBA, after meeting her, he winked
at me, turned back and told me while carrying on snuff his pipe

- That's Tanasi.

- Who is Tanasi? - I asked myself.

- The eldest daughter of Toperu - he answered.

- Who is the Toperu? - He inquired.

- Pos is the father of Tanasi
... Come the monsoon Chiscu courting.

- Aha - I cried watching her
carefully, because time was passing in front us.

The monsoon, which had assumed something of what we were discussing
the TARUMBA and I became very red and smiled, lowering her eyes to
give us good morning.

Heart praised the good taste Chisco, and I explained well the molehill.

-
Well, what the hell you want for your daughter? - Asked TARUMBA.

-
One such Pepazus - I said it -.

A mozallón as a cajigu, which removes two hazas of a cave, eats cuatru Cavone, and unless
the pump unless it tenemus moriu ahead. You say you have the Toperu this hobby, not because
I am able to juralu that as Nah, you, sir Don Marcelu, can ponder me and what I will or that come
in these canteens?

Putting up at the doctor's house, who wished to pay his visit that day, despedíme the TARUMBA, but
it, cutting by half the dismissal, she said she "gypsy he was also because both houses were
full, and his doctor, just opposite, and cast to walk beside me. We spent an alley with many
Bardales, and lead to a square green land and contoured for the most part died with ivy and elders,
said my companion, pointing to the left and bottom of a bag that was there for two enclosures,
one of 'busquizal "(thick bush) and a crumbling wall between weeds:

- This is my home.

And turning to the opposite side, he added, while pointing to another
that closed the square there:

- And this is the méicu.

The house snuggled TARUMBA the wall on one side of ruin, and there
was with him at pains and losses and the harnesses from the owner.

With these thoughts in his head, looked at TARUMBA without saying
anything, but he must have read it to me in the face that I put, because
I said right away:

- No espanti of EYU, because it's metal or wood