 His hand is very white and very thin skin, was purified and sharpened, so to speak, dedicated
to work handling the pen. Seeing no one could demeanor say whether he was rich or poor. He wore
very simple clothes and took them modestly, but confidence and relief that comes from the belief
that the suit does not matter.

Oliver welcomed, rather than as a friend, as a young man who needs
to be monitored and for which it should wait before putting squarely
in the closest intimacy.

For his part, Oliver was not only very average, either because the
man's jacket It seemed shocking, either because they warned him inside,
the resistance of a will temperate as well as his own, but formed
of the purest metal.

- I had guessed his friend from you - I said
Augustine, - in the physical and moral.

It is seductive. Do not tell me to do any trickery, because it seems incapable of unworthiness,
but victims, in the highest sense of the word, the will. It is dangerous to humans weaker that
he and people born under the same star.

When Oliver asked his opinion about Augustine, he merely replied:

- There will always be in it of the preceptor and some upstart. Never stop being pedantic labored,
as everyone who does not have more resources that will come and go
the workforce.

I prefer the gifts of talent or cot, and not being that does not want anything.

Later, those two opinions were changed. Augustine came to love Oliver, but without estimating much,
and Oliver had to Augustine in high regard without actually take care.

Our life was regulated very soon. We occupied two adjoining apartments, but independent. Our
very close friendship and independence of each should be fully reconciled
in that order of things.

Our manners were those of students who hobbies Free or positions let you choose, a little instruction,
random, and drink in many sources before to determine which of them
should submit their real spirit in the final.

A few days later, Oliver received a letter from his cousin, in which we were invited to two to move
to Nièvre.

It was an older home loss of dense forests of chestnut and oak. I spent a week of beautiful days
and severe cold in the middle of the mountain, almost stripped of leaves, looking horizons,
if I forget those Trembles did not let me miss them, so beautiful they were, and seemed intended
as a great box, to contain a life more robust and more serious struggles.

The Castle - whose towering turrets very little about the old oak trees that surrounded him,
and it was only visible by cuts made through the forest, with its old gray facade, their tall chimneys
crowned with smoke, their greenhouses closed avenues carpet of leaves dead, - summed up in
a few details of his appearance, sad character and station melancholy
places.

Was it a new existence for Magdalena, and for me there was something very new the fact of seeing
so abruptly placed on a more vast, with the freedom of attitudes, amplitude of manners, that
indefinable something very imposing higher and providing the use and the responsibilities of
owning a large fortune.

One person seemed to miss the castle still Nièvre Street Carmelite:
the Mr. D'Orsel.

As for me, places I care nothing. A very attractive blended in that time, my present and past,
between Magdalena and Countess of Nièvre there was nothing difference between an impossible love and
a guilty love, and when I left Nièvre, was convinced that the love born in the Rue des Carmelites,
what would happen, there was to be buried.

Delayed the installation of the home that Mr. Nièvre had proposed
to establish Paris, Magdalena came in the winter.

He felt happy surrounded by all his family, had Julia and her father was a need of time to pass without
shaking of modesty and regularity of provincial life to the surprises that awaited him in
the great world, and that was Nièvre semisoledad sort of novitiate which was far from displeasing.

I
saw her once or twice that summer, with long intervals and for brief moments, cowardly stolen
from the duty imposed on me to escape it.

Had entertained the purpose of making this withdrawal, frankly, very appropriate to try be
heroic and to heal. It was much to resist invitations to constantly Nièvre reached us. I even
more: I tried not to think about it. I immersed myself in work. Augustine's example has made
my naturally emulation if he had not liked it. Paris develops the peculiar environment of the great
centers of activity in everything in the order of intellectual activities, and I mix in some
motion of the facts, it was logical that refuse to live in that atmosphere.

As for life in Paris, as Oliver understood, I had no illusions and not considered as a relief.
A little had to distract her, but by no means to stun and even less
comfort.

On the other hand, the peasant persisted in me and not could be resolved to divest himself
because he had changed his middle. Bad that despite the who seek to deny the influence of terroir,
I felt I was in my local to be somewhat resistant, not ever completely leave, and if the desire
had been expressed acclimated in me, I am sure that the thousand links of origins - that it
is impossible to uproot, - I have warned continued through suffering that my task would be useless.
Lived in Paris and in a hostel: it was possible to remain long in it, and even that she died,
but I always host and would be considered in passing.

Somber, withdrawn, sociable with peers only usual, constant mistrust new contacts, as was possible
avoided this terrible friction of Parisian life buffing characters and flattened, to consume
them.

I was not too blind to what She is the stunning, I do not disturb the offering contradictory,
not seduced me thus providing the appetites of youth and the ambitions of the gullible. To
get under cover of his wiles I had a defect that amounted, in its effect, a virtue, and was
the fear of the unknown, and that incorrigible terror trials lent me by say so, the insights
they have experienced.

Were you alone or little less, because Augustine did not belong and from the first moment I realized
that what Oliver was not the man for a long time to belong. Then acquired all contrary habits
in my habits, but no resemblance to them.

Registered libraries, shivering in the harsh arenas and put me at night in the reading rooms
where those facing starvation, Painted fever on their faces, they wrote books that were not
to give them fame and enrich them. Guessed in their powerlessness, physical and moral misery
whose neighborliness certainly comforted me. Out of those places afflicted. I locked myself
in my house, opened other books and watched.

So I felt it move under my window the night of Carnival festivities. Sometimes, at night, Oliver
knocking on my door. I immediately recognized the fist thump of his cane gold. I was sitting
at my desk, shook my hand and won its fourth humming a piece of opera. The next day began again
without ostentation, naively convinced it was excellent that austere way of life.

After a few months and could not go. My efforts were exhausted and as a building raised by a
miracle, one morning, on waking, I felt that my value was collapsing.

Pretended remember an idea pursued the day before: impossible! In vain I repeated certain phrases
discipline that stung me once, and are encouraged to draft horses that plant.

It was now summer. In the streets a beautiful sun shining. Swifts flying satisfied around a sharp
bell tower from my window was distinguished. Without a moment's hesitation and without thinking
I would lose the benefit at a time when so many months of prudence,
Magdalena wrote.

What he said was negligible. The brief notes that she received on several occasions, had determined,
once and for all, the tone of our correspondence.

I did not put in one more or less, however, issued the letter, I waited for the response as
an event.

Paris is in fact a large garden for the bored: They are found in it relative solitude, trees, green
grass, blooming flower trays, dark alleys and a mob of birds that appear to be there as her
pleasure in the countryside.

In that garden he was and I missed all the rest day, amazed to have shaken my yoke and most admired
of the extreme intensity still a memory that had believed in good faith that he was asleep.
Slowly, like a bonfire that is revived, I felt my whole being that burning awakening.

Walked under the trees, speaking only involuntary gestures and making themselves a long chained
man breaking the chains:

- What! - Thought .-- And do not even have to know that I loved? Has to ignore that because
her have spent my life, sacrificed everything, even such innocent, to make him see what I have made
for your rest? Does he think that I spent with her without seeing her, that our stock have run
parallel without confusion or even touched, neither more nor less than two indifferent streams? And
the day you say "you know, Madeleine, that I loved so much"? I reply:
Is it possible?

... And no longer in the age that he might believe.

Then I realized that, indeed, our destinies were parallel, very close, but unmistakable; it was
necessary to live alongside each other, separated, and that everything was completed by me. Then
I lost in hypotheses emanating from them a repeated "Who knows?"

With all scope of a temptation. And that my conscience conditional replied: "No, that will never
be!"

But those foolish assumptions I had a horrible taste sweet and it
was weak drunk that I still will, also thought that it was not worth
having fought hard to reach such a point.

Noticed in me a lack of energy and so deeply felt contempt for myself, that this desperate days
of my life. It did not seem good for nothing, not even to apply to work more vulgar. Nobody
wanted me because I did not care nothing of it. Some children went to play under the trees.
Blissful couples became closely linked, prevented his approach and I went, like, in my mind, what
place where there was not alone.

Returned to the streets deserted. In them were large walled industrial workshops and noisy
factories whose chimneys smoked, boiled boiler was heard, the sound
of gears.

I thought about the tension that I consumed many months, always at
the home interior on, always waiting for an application that burning
was not provided.

Blacks looked glass, saw the reflection of the furnace, heard the
noise of the machines.

- What will you do there? - I said .-- Who
knows what will come out of these workshops, wood or metal how big
or small, useful or superfluous?

And the idea that going on in my mind as anything added to my dismay
and complete, not did more than confirm.

On my desk there was a mountain of reams of paper written.

Never looked pride usually avoided look at her closely, and so he
spent every day of the illusions Eve.

From the following I made my decision supreme justice: random read multiple fragments, a strong
flavor of mediocrity turned my heart. I grabbed all papers and threw into the fire. He was
very quiet while running that work in any other circumstances would
have cost me some grief.

At that moment came Magdalena's letter.

Was as it should be warm, tender, delicate and yet I was hope to see fade away stunned. The
twinkle of many old papers still burning lit my room, I stood with the letter in hand, like
a drowning man and clinging to a broken string, by chance came Oliver.

Seeing that pile of smoldering ashes and saw a quick glance at the letter.

- Are you good at Nièvre? - I asked coldly.

In anticipation of the slightest suspicion handed him the letter, he affected not as if he had
read and decided it was time to talk to one reason and one broadly debride sore that languished
without result, he began:

- But to what end has arrived? Six months ago you spend the night
writing and consumiéndote, wearing a life of a seminarian who already
made their vows or taking baths Benedictine science to calm the meat.
And where did you come all this?

- Nowhere - I replied.

- Too bad,
because all test disappointment, at least, one thing has been wrong
about the means to succeed. You believe that loneliness is the best
of directors. And now do you think? What advice has given you, what
view that fits, what a lesson in behavior?

- Be silent forever! -
Said in a tone of despair.

- If that's your final decision, I invite
you to change the system. If all you expect from yourself, if you
have enough pride to believe that completing a situation has discouraged
many strong and you can stay without tambalearte, standing on appalling
difficulty, to which many hearts have fainted, too bad, I repeat again,
because I believe in serious danger, and I swear that no longer sleep
alone.

- I have no pride or confidence, as well as I know. I'm not
the one who wants: it is as you say, the situation that is imposed
on me. Not in my power to prevent what is, I can not what should be
expected. I stay where I am, on a danger, because I am forbidden go
elsewhere. Magdalena not love, I can not, love it otherwise I can
not. The day of this difficulty, which I can not go down, beats me
vertigo ... I cry like a dead man.

- Dead not fallen very far. It
does not matter, anyway, the fact is funereal. And it does not as
I understand that you must finish