 

Montesinos sought in the darkness that pretty little hand, she knew so well, and heels pressed
against his lips, devoured it with kisses. Joaquina abandoned in his possession, After waiting
for leave. Soltola, in effect, but it was to throw her arms neck and pressed against his chest,
crazy, lost love, crushing her lips with kisses brutal, frantic. The lady struggled fiercely
to free herself, and she did, with staggered her husband a shove.

- I told you I would not, want not! - Angry voice shouted .-- If you ever touch me I'm naked as
I leave these streets ... Go! Go!

D. Alvaro became glued to the ground by the shock. Were not his words that left him cold, horror,
was that voice sharp as a knife blade, reaching to depths chest.

-
Go!

Go away - she repeated further raising the cry.

At that time no one thought crossed, by the brain of primogeniture: all faculties were wiped out,
broken by the shock and horror of the coup. No one felt more alive longing impression, as if
he had fallen from somewhere very high and was still air. The world disappeared in the darkness,
nothing existed in the darkness enveloped him, even his thoughts. There remained a strident voice,
fatal and a great pain, eternal pain.

- Go!

Go!

Bumping into furniture, jumping as if it escapes a disaster, left that stay. Found on the stairs
clutching tightly to the handrails to avoid falling. There stopped and tried to coordinate
their ideas. Why running? What had happened? No reason was given that sudden flight. He tried
to turn and enter back into the residence of his wife and enter into explanations, but his
legs refused to obey. An instinctive horror, as if before a black hole and deep, he was arrested.
Advanced, with both hands clutching the railing, and came to his room. Hurricane, streaming
through the open window, had dominion over him, the papers were flying, the furniture that was holding
were wet. Her hands came across the desk chair and sat down without even trying to find matches
or close the window. It remained motionless, his eyes wide open in the dark, without feeling the
cold that penetrated to the bone or water showers bathed him and off the head, unable to determine
if the rumor that deafened and I was really dizzy wave or sounding only in his brain.

So he was surprised the light of day, a sad day and dirty, like almost all winter in rocks. Alzose
the end like a sleepwalker, entered the bedroom and flopped in bed. Ramiro could not wake him
at nine o'clock for breakfast. It was a dream invincible annihilation, like death. He slept in absolute
immobility, eyes curved and densely pale face. When three o'clock in the afternoon he went
to the profound lethargy, knew without any wonder that his wife had left in the care of Lancia.

VII

After venting their anger Osuna's daughter, followed by Quadrant
down the street, laughing nervously for some time yet.

But that faded after laugh. He felt an uneasiness strange, some leeway made his legs falter.
He paused a moment: he attacked wishes to turn back and spy on the couple who left there in the
Field of fainting. The fear of being noticed stopped her. Although vague, it also gave account
of the singular and reprehensible behavior. Why had he done that? Who was she to spy footsteps
of his confessor, let alone reprimand? His defiance was so alive, however, that not allowed
to repent. His mouth was dry, her cheeks were burning. He walked hurriedly and went to the
dock. I was already alone. The sea breeze cooled it a bit. Felt, yet so busy he did not want
to go home: I needed to talk, distracted. Go to Ms Eloisa house and dine there as usual.

Just going to put the couple at the table when she arrived.