 Hácenlo dead children are in heaven, and which allows Father
God, this night, they come to play with the Nativity. "

All this came to an end, and was again flutter away.

Attended many of those present to examine the damage, and a man said:

"It has sunk the table and all figures have been upset."

Began to collect the figures and to put in order. After careful counting and recognize one by
one all the pieces, something was missing. Searched and researched, but to no avail. It was two
figures: the mule and the ox.

X

And close the day, the rioters were way to heaven, happier than a
lark, hopping through those clouds, and there were millions of millions,
all precious, pure, divine, with short white wings that beat faster
than the fastest bird on earth.

The band formed was larger than what they can cover their eyes in space visible and covered
the moon and stars, as if the sky full of clouds.

"A rush, to hurry, young gentlemen, who is going to be day - one said,
- and Grandpa is going to fight if we are late.

Births worthless this year .... When one remembers those ...!» times

Celinina went with them, and as for the first time walking in those altitudes, it is reckless
a little.

"Come here - I said one - give me your hand and you will fly right
over .... But what have you got there?

- This - said Celinina pressing
against his chest two coarse clay animals .-- They are pa me, pa me.

-
Look, kid, pull those dolls.

Well now it is known that salt of the earth. Know that although the games have eternal Heaven,
always delicious, Grandpa sent us to the world tonight that wrapped
up a bit in the Birth.

Have fun up there too tonight, and I think we sent down to them dizzy
with the great noise that we put .... But if Father God let us down
and walk through the houses, is on condition that we not take anything,
and you've striven that.

"

Celinina did not take charge of these powerful reasons, and most pressing
against your chest two animals, repeated:

- Pa me, pa me.

- Look,
dummy, - said the other, - if you ignore that we're going to cause
an upset.

Low in flight, and leave that which is of the earth and the earth
should be.

At one point leave and come back, silly.

I wait in this cloud. "

Celinina finally relented, and down, gave land to his theft.

XI

So noted that Celinina beautiful body, what the person was visible,
in his hands, instead of flowers, two clay critters.

Neither women the veiled, neither the father nor the mother knew
how to explain this, but the pretty girl, so mourned of all, entered
the land in their cold little hands squeezing the Mule and Ox.

December 1876.

FEATHER IN THE WIND

Ó

THE JOURNEY OF LIFE

Poe ....[ 1]

INTRODUCTION

On the matted floor of the yard between an eggshell and a piece of radish, about where they drank
half a bowl of chicken and about two inches of arugula that had been
born at the site without asking anyone's permission, lay a small and
very light pen, apparently fall some pigeon neck neighbor, ten minutes
before had stopped stroking female oh condescension! by D. John that
was raging on the rooftops of the neighborhood.

The pen was sad, ugly and lonely. From where the pen was not seen anything but the top of some
brown planted outside the wall, the steeple of the church with its
dented auction, after the manner of old hat, the big stick and a poplar
lackluster invalid and almost dying, and the tiles of the adjacent
house, which on stormy days sprinkled with plenty of cried the yard
and garden.

The vine, the vine and honeysuckle bush, barely covered between three full extent of the wall,
bristling with broken glass on top, which served as impregnable bulwark against foxes and little
boys.

This reduced the landscape, in addition to the vast and ever-beautiful sky, so splendid day
as imposing and mysterious night.

The pen (why should not we give it life?) Lay, as we, along with several objects rather ignoble,
own the place, and constantly exposed to be trodden by the barbarian plant geese, chickens and
even other little animals but clean and decent had room in a nearby swamp.

I must not say that the pen must be very boring, as if a soul have delicate, air and supple
body, the consequence is that the soul could not live happy described in the corral. By a mysterious
harmony between the elements of that be if the body looked like a ghost of matter, the soul had
been created to fly and soar heights, rising to the longest distance possible on the ground, in
which ever mud should touch the lace of her subtle almost imperceptible cover. For this was
born certainly, but it, like us men remained predestination an empty word. Was the poor in
the corral, lamenting his fate, staring at the sky, without distraction in the wind see the
whites of her clothes festoons undefiled, and saying in the unknown language of feathers: "I
do not know how annoying stand this life. It's better to die a hundred times. "

Other equally sad lot said, but at the same moment a gust of wind who put in turmoil all straw
and small objects thrown in the pen, the suspended, Unexpected oh joy! raising it on the ground
more than half a yard. For short time was fluctuating back and forth, threatening to fall at times
and going back others with large din of the chickens, who saw this white thing was walking
through the air such majesty, went behind her waiting for her in the fall, hoping it was something
eating. But the wind blew more loudly, and with a strong swirling around the campus the pen,
drew it out quickly. When she saw higher than the wall, higher than the house, the chestnut, the
height of poplar, trembled all over with excitement and admiration. Arribita there, the wind
swayed, holding no violent shaking, seemed to sway in visible hammock or in the arms of a loving
genius. From there, what a sight!

Down the pen with chickens scratching constantly restless, the garden, the house, the chestnut
trees poplar, how small what once seemed so big! Then, the whole expanse of beautiful Valley
village of houses, trees, flowers, cattle, in the distance the mountains with their slopes
covered with forests, red and blue eminences and peaks encaperuzadas with a whiteness in which
our traveler thought he saw huge piles of feathers above the endless sky, the morning sun making
bright colors throughout the landscape, water scribbling ray of light producing reflections
quivering in the foliage of the elms, and reverberating in the crops
straw scattered here and there patches of poppies.

This itself is called live! Tremendous thing would be to fall back into the corral.

The pen, at the height of his joy, found no better way to express it spinning on its axis, so that
although its members orearan wet and shivering, bathed in the sun fluffy, cupping with some tiny
fringe vanity that your body is composed. The sun shone in between the interstices of one thousand
wonderful fit, and our traveler was seen threads of glass dressed more tenuous than that spiders
tend branch to branch, and covered with diamonds, emeralds and rubies ranging from light to
every move, and so tiny, the grains of sand mountains appear at his side.

Extending the view of the valley, the mountains, the horizon, and wanting to cross it all to the end,
was in the pen work of a moment. His amazement and joy knew no bounds, and if at first surprise
kept at that height, rambling, without detracting from their status First, after a bit and feeling
Serenada on his chest (?) the fire of enthusiasm, was launched in
the immense space, genie arms.

Gone pen, house, village, the tower of the church, as a giant panicked, was walking too large
to miss Zanchetta of view. In the excitement of that giddy flight, the pen sometimes rose so
high, I could barely distinguish objects, others down to almost to the ground, and looked
their fleeting image in the green surface of the puddles. Sometimes going back then, that seemed
confused with the clouds and disappear into the vast ocean of space down sometimes Therefore, it very
nearly touched the ground, and in language unknown to the wind said: "Put me down a little
friend, I get dizzy at these heights, "or" please pick me up, buddy, I'm going to fall in that quagmire.
"

The wind, compliant vehicle, up and down as desired, always walk,
and spent valleys, rivers, mountains, hills, towns, without stopping.

On their journey, the pen never stopped admire what he saw. The birds spent singing along to it,
the butterflies stopped, watching her in amazement, we fail to understand if it was a living thing
or object carried by the wind.

When they were near land and went skimming over brambles and thorny plants, you'd think all
bristling barbs and claws to get it, and fly over a pond, geese returning from the bank's head
sideways at her, and hopefully to see her fall, ran screeching after it: - "Lift me up, buddy,"
he cried, refusing to hear these barbarians. "

CANTO FIRST

And rose to the top of the mountain, passing the ridge, and traveled another valley, and so
all the way, never stopping. Both walked the pen, feeling satisfied their curiosity, swirled,
gave a few turns on itself, and told the genius that drove:

"You know we've run enough? Do not be chosen in place to take a break? Ay, friend! Although he
wanted to leave the pen to travel the world, you believe that what I like is the quiet and
peaceable life. For a moment I thought that happiness is to fly from here to there, seeing
different things every minute, and receive different impressions. And I'm convinced it is better
to remain quietly in one place a not be as ugly as poultry, live without fear or danger. I see there,
near the river, large trees, which I think the most beautiful place we found on our trip. "

Drew
near and saw indeed that the shade of those trees was the site most appealing and delicious than a
pen could aspire to spend their days.

Fine lawn covered the ground near the river ran with gentle flow, not so quick to drag and Turning
the soil of the green margins, nor so slow that muddied the waters:
easy was to count all the stones from the bottom, but not the multitude
of fish that wander over its transparent glass.

The branches of trees, living sifting the sunshine, kept in warm darkness the small meadow, and
from there all the insects had fled importunate and dirty, and all birds irrelevant and frivolous.
The few things that were there pitch or with a permanent residence, were the most learned and distinguished
of creation: insects dresses gold and decorated with wonderful jewels,
birds sang sentimental and discrete their love in courtly style, and
only at certain hours of the morning or afternoon.

It was noon, and all were silent at the top of the branches, entertaining spirit in abstract meditations.

'Fresh
and beautiful place this is! - Said the ruffled feathers of enthusiasm to be there .-- Here
I spend my whole life, all, all, I repeat not safely complete range of purpose.

Wandered beneath the shade of the trees, sliding on the cool grass, when he saw approaching a
shepherd, guiding two dozen sheep with the odd lamb, and a dog that served custody and companionship.
The pastor was concerned, walking, weaving a crown of flowers that brought on the side, and such was
her beauty, grace and elegance, the pen was absorbed.

He sat the girl, and the pen again soaring through the air, spun around his admiring up close and
from afar, and the whiteness of complexion, and expression and brightness eyes and black hair, and
his lips turned on, each and every one of the perfections copy of such creature.

"Here I have to be a lifetime - the traveler exclaimed in his convoluted language .-- This really
is live. I never tire of looking at it, but live a thousand years. What I have done well to settle
here ... and what a great thing to love! Thank God I've found happiness. How sweet he spends his
time looking at her, now and then and always! What pleasure equal to that of skim her hair and
stroking her forehead with my flequitos?

What I can be more ambitious than let me slip from his neck to sneak ... I do not know where,
or hide in your clothes and meat tickling estarme there for all eternity? This drives me crazy
... and indeed I am madly in love.

Here and not away from it for a moment, I spend all life. "

The pen was flying and falling away around the pastor, until he came to rest gently on his shoulder,
and he made a thousand grimaces and fuss with their fringes. He saw the girl that object White,
who at first tried to be anything but delicate falling branches of the tree, and took her,
squeezed between his fingers and threw it from him with contemptuous indifference. A while
later called to his flock and left.

Much took our unfortunate traveler return from his swoon. He opened his eyes in vain sought
the object of his tender passion, recognizing the site, shaking his bruised sockets and broken,
and gave the wind its complaints in this way:
"Oh, little wind, get me out of here, for the blessed souls, lift
me up, I am dying of sadness. I want to run again, as I now understand
that happiness does not exist in what I thought. Good silly I was!
Love is not only fatigue and pain. Just love that I know tired and
what it brings. We'll fly again, and go where you want, buddy. I really
I say that I carry these trees and the river: I'm already up to the
crown of lawns, meadows, streams and birds. Let us make a turn into
the world. Lift me: I go up clouds. That is, the way I like: Lift
me up all you can. Look, there in the distance is reached to see a
house that has to be very large: Do you see how bright the sunlight,
as if it were silver, and next is again and again, many, many houses?
No doubt that is what called a city. That's what I want to see. Thank
God I find what I like. Let's go right there, and let us hills and
valleys, places unfit for this my genius ... Now, now you look closely
the city