 Contempláronse few moments, she maliciously and triumphant expression, him
with gratitude and joy repressed.

- If you always have told me!

If no other like my baby to know how to love! ... Come here let me give thanks, rich mine,
let me adore knees.

And dragged, overwhelmed by the enthusiasm towards the couch, forced
her to sit back and dropped to his knees, fervently kissing her gloved
hands.

- Jesus, what madness! - Exclaimed the lady a bit confusing -.

What a thing to make such ends!

- It's not about money, my baby, it's not about money, it's because you have a way to make
original things, because you have the grace of God, because you are a Barbiana .... Take, take,
retemonísima!

And he hugged his knees and kissed them with warm gestures.

Not satisfied, bowed further and kissed his feet, or rather, the morocco leather of his shoes.

-
How low are you, Pepe! - She exclaimed, laughing.

- No matter what you call me anything you want. I'm yours, yours till death! I love you more God. I love
these little feet so rich and the kiss. See? Let's see, that someone comes tell me that I should.

Clementina
looked at him smiling.

It was not easy to find out if it had in reality or simply amused with that worship, or rather that
dog joy resounding feeling creeps caressed and licked the feet of
his master.

- Not only do I owe you happiness, but also the honor.

Do not know what I have suffered since yesterday cursed by the debt - he said in an agitated voice.

-
Will you return to play, eh?

Will you return to play, lost? - She asked pulling his hair, primororosa
deleting that line that started so nicely.

- No ... particularly
on my word .... I assure you

- Not on your word, not on your money,
great junk .... I'm, I'm - he added a gesture of mime, getting up
and running to look at the time the clock on the mantelpiece -.

Ugh how late! ... Goodbye, little boy.

And he rushed to the door reaching out to her lover without looking.

This could not kiss the tip of the fingers. She ran to open, but it had seized the lock, for
true that angry because his weak resisting pulls.

- Bye, bye, until Saturday - said in a falsetto voice.

- Until last week.

- No, no, until Saturday.

He went downstairs with the same haste with which he had climbed, made another gesture imperceptible
Farewell to the keeper and hit the streets. Continued to walk to the Plaza del Ángel, and stood
there a cab and got into it.

It was after six. An hour ago they were the lights of the shops. Ocultóse his best in a corner
and let his gaze wander distracted without curiosity through the streets going through. His face acquired
the expression haughty, disdainful, which characterized, to which was now added slight hint of
disgust and concern. For its refined elegance, by his arrogant demeanor, and especially that
severe majesty of his face pilgrim, no Clementina hesitate to depute one of the highest and most
noble ladies of the court. However, if it was indeed, as contained in all the aristocratic salons
in all lists distinguished people that the newspapers published the day after any soiree, horse
racing, or any other party, in law be was far from its origin. Could not be more humble. His
father had been in an English, Irish mistress of a cooper who had come to Valencia in search
of work. His name was Rosa Coote. It was splendidly beautiful and would have been something more to
take care of the decoration or dressing himself. Misery, ordinarily lived that home illegal,
had been dirty and ragged. Rogue mercadal of Valencia and the beautiful English is understood
at the back of Cooper, temporary owner thanks for this. Salabert was younger, more handsome: the
vice of drunkenness is not he had dominated as that. Rose followed him to his housetop, abandoning
the first lover. A few months of living together, Salabert, who appeared from time to Cuba as
waiter in a steam, turn left. The English, who had already in her womb the fruit of that temporary
marriage, filmed some time without protection, without resources, through the streets of the
city, until he entered a relationship with a carpenter who picked Grao and reached to make
her his lawful wife. Clementina was raised as an intruder in that new home. His mother was a violent
woman, irascible, with gusts of tenderness, that only kept for their children legitimate. To her,
by all signs, and she hated unjustly avenged the insult of his father. What a terrible childhood
of Clementina! If Madrid knew some details, quick overview if they could offer in the eyes of
some scenes of elegant society that proud and haughty woman that happened, few would envy his
life. What torture what refinement of cruelty! After four or five years and was forced to be
vigilant two other brothers keeper. If this monitoring decaying one point, the punishment came
immediately, but no punishment as you want, hit passengers, lug-eared, no. The punishment was thought
to cruelty, trying to hurt where more hurt and which lasted more pain .... The neighbors had
come more than once to the cries of the wretched creature had rebuked the unnatural mother. It was
not only a thunderous brawl that the fierce Irish broken Valencian, was shipped to your taste against
Wives the neighborhood, and more bitterness then against the cause of that displeasure. At
all times shouted he was going to put it in the foundling. This was against the carpenter,
who boasted be good and compassionate man, who once intervened in the punishment to appease,
but most of the time he left his wife "to teach her daughter", as he said neighbors who reproached
him. His educational ideas clashed with his instincts pious and when they could overcome woe
to the unfortunate girl!

That series of unprecedented cruelty finally ended with a larger one that brought the judicial
intervention. The unnatural mother, not knowing how to torment his daughter, made some burns on
the back with a candle. A neighbor found out the fact incidentally, reported it to other neighbors,
the ensuing scandal was assembled in the neighborhood, gave part of the judge, was instructed
cause, and proved the offense, the English was sentenced to six months
in prison and girls gathered in a charitable institution.

A year later came to Valencia Salabert, if not like a potentate, with some estate. Enteráronle
of what happened. Went to see her daughter to school for poor girls. The out of there and put
it in other payment, by rare chance, where would visit. In the population, however, was praised
his trait of generosity. He knew it asserted in the conversation by offering to eyes of his
acquaintances as a living example of fatherly love and noticeable contrast against the wickedness
of his former mistress. Shortly afterwards he married in Madrid. It was his wife's daughter a
dealer in iron beds and mattresses metal Main Street. She was a young Feit and sickly enough,
but good, caring and fifty thousand francs of dowry. His name Carmen. After three or four years of
marriage, that, looking increasingly delicate health lost hope of having a family. Knowing that
her husband had an illegitimate daughter in a convent Valencia, he suggested, not very often
generously, bring it home and consider it as daughter.

Salabert gladly accepted the proposition. Clementina was looking for, and from then entirely
changed the fate of this unfortunate girl.

He was fourteen years old and already a prodigy of beauty, blissful blend of English style correct
and delicate and rough beauty of a woman in Valencia. Reflexes kept her complexion smooth, pearly
Saxon race. In his dark blue eyes had the same depth and mystery in the black eyes of Valencia. Underdeveloped
even by virtue of its most cruel childhood, sedentary life, then the convent, as climate change
and lifestyle acquired in two or three years, tall and majestic proportions that we see today.
Moral parts left much to be desired. It was his temperament irascible, opinionated, contemptuous
and sullen. If you were born with these vices or were the result of their barbarous tortures,
his sad childhood, it is not easy to solve. In the convent, where no one was mean, was not well liked
by his teachers and classmates for his character suspicious, the lack of affection that is felt
in his heart. The troubles of her companions, not only moved her, but awoke in his lips a cruel
smile, the left stiff. Then I had, from time to time, access of fury that had been feared and
hated. On one occasion, a girl who had said some offensive words threw her hands neck and was
very close to suffocate. It was never possible after you beg pardon,
required by the superior.

He preferred to be detained a month, to humble themselves.

The first months he spent at his father were good test for Ms Carmen. Instead of a girl happy
and grateful for the huge favor that was, was faced front of a shrew, a being nasty without
affection and submission, extravagant and whimsical to a surprising degree, whose loud laughter
flowed not only when a servant fell or the groom got a kick of the horses. But not discouraged.
With unerring instinct of generous hearts, knew that if that land was because love was not until
then only had sown hatred. Sweet affections reside in every human being, as in electricity every
body: but to make them vibrate, requires submission to a strong current of affection for some
time. And this was what made Ms Carmen with his stepdaughter. For six months was wrapped in a warm atmosphere
of affection, in a dense network of extremely delicate attentions, live testimony constant and
affectionate interest. Finally, Clementina, who began by show disdain and then indifferent
to that affection, you spent hours and hours locked in his room and only went to the rooms
of his stepmother when he called, he had no with this ever expanding living in absolute secrecy,
succumbed suddenly, he felt vibrate in your heart that something wonderful that binds to human
creatures as all bodies of the universe. Changed in a strange, violent, and all that came
from his unique temperament. Fell, when least expected, and knelt before Ms Carmen, by devoting
so profound a respect, a love so passionate, that the good lady was shocked and he could scarcely
believe his sincerity. In his soul had operated at the end disclosure of tenderness. Maternal
heat of that kind lady, her heart of ice had melted. The divine essence of love penetrated
where, until then, had only entered the essence of Satan.

It was a miracle. Rather than spend his life in his room, he knew out of her stepmother whom he called
mom, with joy, with a fire, with a pronunciation so determined, as only observed in sincere devotees
to go to the Virgin. Devotion could also be called Clementina felt that the wife of his father.
Amazed that the world was one so sweet, so tender, not tired of looking at it as if it had
just come down from heaven. I wanted to read the thoughts in his eyes, he wanted to anticipate
his slightest wishes, wanted anyone to serve more than she wanted to, finally, like all love, the
exclusive possession the object of his love. A very slight sign of displeasure of Ms Carmen was
enough to confuse and plunged into the most bitter grief. That haughty creature, who had come to
be hateful to all, is humiliated with intense pleasure, his stepmother. It was his humiliation
of the mystic who bows out of a need invincible spirit. When he felt the hand of lady stroking
her face, thinking of God feel the same. He hardly dared to touch his fingers to his lips thin
and transparent.

Only his stepmother had changed so radically. With others, even with the same father, still
showed the same cold contempt, the same stubborn and arrogant character. If ever seemed sweeter
and treatable, it had to be attributable to its will, but the express mandate of Ms Carmen.
As this mandate ceased or forgotten, returned to its original be malicious. The servants hated by
the insufferable pride began to express so realized crown princess status, by either not finding
it any compassion for his offenses. The one he suffered in his service was the English governess
who her father had brought. Was already advanced in years, but had pleasure in dressing and
align as a damsel. This served many times innocent hobby of mocking the girl, who only need could
you tolerate force. Poor woman! All of its technical secrets were handed toilet merciless mockery
to the servants. Their physical imperfections awoke, misshapen by lady's maid, uproar in the kitchen.
In some solemn occasion, a feast day, Clementina hid her teeth, that was on the toilet for cleaning.
Any can imagine the distress that this caused the old miss. Which candidly revenge of her as Miss
Capricho and putting on subjects, English exercises French, some maxims and aphorisms that
will sting, wit: "Pride is leprosy the soul. The girl pride is a leper from whom all must turn
away in horror "--." Who does not respect the elderly will never be respected, "and so on.
Clementina laughed at these outbursts. Insolence ever came to change the sentence to the teacher
on the other of his invention. Where he said: "Nothing is so ugly and worthless as a young arrogant",
put the disciple: "Nothing is so ridiculous and worthy of laughter as an old fox '. Alborotábase
the miss, was part of Ms Carmen, called it his stepdaughter, scolded her gently, and smoothing
sad and heartbroken to see her brow and kissed her affectionately. And to another. The truth is
that Miss Anne was right and the other servants, saying the woman was who spoiled the girl.
Ms Carmen, living in a terrible moral loneliness, was so intrigued and grateful the living
love that at all times he showed his stepdaughter, who had no eyes to see their faults, and if he
had lacked the strength to correct them.

At eighteen years Clementina was one of the most beautiful women and one of the best games
Madrid. The flow of his father had grown like wildfire.

He was considered one of important bankers of the city and no other heir was known or assumed it
was already it had. Began the youth of the aristocracy of blood and money, partners most eminent
of the Savage Club, to celebrate statements urging him to live. If I went to a gathering, a group
of boys had it walled constantly, if the church another large group was waiting in right-departure
training, if the Paseo de la Castellana, handsome knights galloped near his car would provide
an escort. In the theater twenty pairs of twins were constantly fixed upon her. The name of Clementina
Salabert out in all discussions of youth elegant form was seen in all the chronicles of salons,
rang in Madrid as one of the brightest stars aristocratic sky. Had a good portion of affairs
and courtships that did not produce trace some in his heart. And left the couple took inconsiderately,
which gained fame of flirtatious and frivolous. But this does not prevent a girl finds worshipers.
In contrast, self-esteem of the men were encouraged to devote their flattery to this class women,
always with the vain hope of being the nail to fix the vane wheel. Nor was it a serious problem
for rude and malicious murmur rose and ran all over Madrid for the original friendship which brought
a young and famous torero. The innocence and weakness of Ms Carmen had a good part of it. Not
only consented is the bullfighter good lady entered the house and sit at his table, but also
accompany them in public in more than one occasion. With this and give the death of some bulls,
slander, which is on the loose in the capital and the provinces, had sufficient excuse to pick
on fiercely with the envied beauty. But as otherwise could not provide bold and vague suspicions
that conjecture, as indeed there were two positive data that amply counterbalanced, namely,
the exceptional beauty and richness of Young, slander was no decrease in the worshipers, only
served to some disillusioned more easily spit their bile.

Clementina offered in his manner and speech, at this age, and always offered later flamenquismo
certain trend, or the forms unwrapped, to the serenity mocking Special tear cool in Madrid. Such
a trend is more or less exaggerated across Madrid's high society. It is a sign that characterizes
and distinguishes it from that of other countries. There is in this inclination to be seen in
Madrid, in the palace as the Razorfen, something good: it is not
all bad.

For now means a protest against this ongoing lie the refinement and sophistication of social
formulas always brings. It is commendable correction in the manner and measure in words, but
the coldness produced exaggerated tedious that our diplomats overseas observed in classrooms.

Clementina was exaggerating a little their taste for Flemish words and gestures. Taste it had come
not know how, maybe spread the atmosphere, as the ladies its kind not usually alternate with long
cool. Had a housemaid born and raised in Wonderland. This was in his moments of expansion who
provided much of words and idioms. Then his friendship with bullfighter we've mentioned, relationships
that remained after some gentlemen farmers of the genus; the theater
for hours, where are copied, not without grace, the customs of the
populace of Madrid, friendship with Pepa Frias and other aristocratic
manolas were started slowly and fully introduced after flamenquismo.

Was enthusiastic fan of the bulls. Miraculously left to attend a bullfight from his box, adorned
with the familiar and the familiar white blanket red carnations. And discussed the lots, and
glaring censorship and taxed applause, and was taken between staunch and fervent amateur lizards.
The national show, animated, bloody, I was very pleased with his violent nature, untamed. When
I saw other women cover their eyes or make other niceties to the vicissitudes of the run, laughed
sardonically, as if he doubted the sincerity of his terror.

Among the many worshipers and applicants that their hand was, and came and fell from grace alternative
and quickly became one that managed to fix some more attention. His name was Thomas Osorio. He was
a youth of twenty to thirty years old, rich and delicate meager figure face and graceful and
resolute temper. He gained more valuable than others, or by calculation or genuine independence
of character. Upon entering her love was not delivered in full or abdicated his will. In many fights
of any importance had during his long relations, since it lasted less than two years, vigorously
maintained his dignity. Temperament was bilious, arrogant, contemptuous as it relied on his money
and had a wicked charm which gave him prestige among the ladies.

Thanks to these qualities, Clementina never tired of him as soon as the others. After two years,
however, when there were only some days to perform the marriage broke down in a resounding
and even scandalous. All Madrid learned. The comments were endless. Of them was that whoever
had taken the initiative to sever relations was the groom. Such sayings, accurate or not, reached
the ears Clementine and wounded his pride so vividly, it came close to getting sick with anger.

A year passed. Had a minor engagement. Osorio also courting other girls. Both are kept alive, however,
the memory of their love. She's waving a desire stabbing for revenge. While this man walked in
and looked so happy society, felt humiliated. In him, despite his disguise of indifference,
the fire of love burning or at least desire. Clementina had fascinated his senses, had entered
into his flesh; made more efforts could not uproot him. At all times I dreamed of her, saw her before
their eyes increasingly provocative and appealing. As time passed the fire grew more that consumed more
effort and pain and had trouble adopting a haughty and indifferent continent to meet her at
any soiree. Clementina, with the fairly common wisdom women reached
out to guess that her old boyfriend was worshiping in secret and felt
malignant glee.

Since then dressed, adorned not only for him to stun, to fascinate, to make him drink the bitter
cup of jealousy.

From this period dates the noisy fame he acquired as elegant woman. Clementina here was a great
artist. So I knew that dress fabrics, and for their vivid colors; for their wealth, would attract
too much damage seen in the figure. Realizing that the Women dress in uniform should not be a
decoration but a means of highlighting the perfections with which nature had endowed, did not follow
fashion blindly. As is smart little or too much exposure of his beauty, evaded or modified value.
Shunned bright colors, a profusion of ribbons, complicated hair. Saw his body like a statue
and dressed as such.