 Close this
place has some sixty olive aranzadas that his father, military as he bought with money earned
in the game. This is the only link that I know, that binds him to this district. I repeat,
therefore, I do not understand their commitment to be our congressman, but I for granted that,
once achieved its best efforts, we will return back, send us a walk, and we will not pinch nougat.
As this is precisely my golden dream, silencing the reason for not scare the minions V., I
decided to be one of them. Count V, then, with me D. choose deputy Jaime Pimentel, and believe
me your affectionate friend. "

Such was the letter D. Juan Fresco so glad the heart of D. Acisclo. It was essential that D. John
supported his business, so it would be. What we wanted was that Don Acisclo alliance, and little
he scared the convoluted reasons and ominous forecasts on which it was based and he was careful not
to trust anyone. Only occasionally, while making intemperate praise of integrity, discretion, honesty
and wisdom of D. John Fresco, said D. Acisclo it was an entity.

-
"Why says V. that D. John is an entity? - Once asked Mrs. Manolita.

-
Why do I say? - Said Don Acisclo - for it is an entity, because the
bug is more I have rarely met in my life.

-XII-

Triumph

Being or
not being, D. Juan Fresco worth a lot to D. Acisclo, which, while
more hope had, the more he toiled and sleepless because they are frustrated.

The

reports had given D. Juan about the condition of D. unhelpful Jaime
Pimentel, did not fail to mortify.

Already, however, there was no way back, and what suited for now was to defeat D. Paco, even
if this were necessary to make use of the candidate less search nougat,
more distracted and worst grower districts have all the kingdom.

Don used to throw stones Acisclo happy, and this neglect of his future deputy, for anyone else
would have been a bad, appeared sometimes bright and cheerful colors
in the eyes of his ambitious hopes.

"If the deputy does nothing - said Don Acisclo for themselves - if not keep your promises, if
not reward the labors of the voters, I will come back for them, which will give me reason to
understand for myself with the Governor of the province and to the
Minister, and be I hereby direct the master real and without that
annoying middle of diputadito.

Essentially therefore, is to win a large majority, and show that D. Paco is a junk to me.
"

To this end it was not medium D. Acisclo not employees.

The elections were to be in the fall, and during the summer lived D. Acisclo in a fever activity.
He traveled on horseback all the villages in the district, who were seven, winning votes for
his protege and removing partial D. Paco. Up to the district capital
was several times, and not unsuccessfully, with the said object.

A few do not influence voters, whom D. Paco had tied, the untied D. Acisclo gallantly exposing
their capital. Being tied up, language is understood in electoral over there, owing money to
the great elector. D. Acisclo was pompous.

Distributed at least eight thousand dollars to ten percent, with no guarantees that simple notes,
thus freeing people tied by D. Paco, with deed and money lent to fifteen.

Every voter was Villafría before voting in a place nearby, because there was Villafría table. Don
Acisclo got to take off the table of the area and to be given to
Villafria population most central and convenient, as he demonstrated.

In Villafría Acisclo Don was sure that would overturn the pot in favor
of D. Jaime.

Tilt the pot or hanging means putting all possible votes to the candidate who is wants to favor.
The voting power of those voters are are on the lists, not be a thousand miles away or in
the grave.

And yet there have been occasions when absent and even the dead voted.

The chronicles of that electoral district, when he found D. Paco, D. Acisclo I was weaving,
began to work against, out of lethargy, or better say the careless quiet repose in which their
confidence had been up there. This, of course, was that Don had to redouble Acisclo increasing
its activity. So is not stopped. His life was a relentless tissue lectures, excursions to the east or
other people, treatment and letters to write and read.

Güeto Pepe became the assistant and secretary D. Acisclo, and also writing, traveling and in conference.

Manolita
Dona Luz and another company were made, abandoned by D. Güeto Acisclo and Pepe. And both also
served as accompanist Fr Henry, only son perhaps the entire district
not intervene in the election issue.

The father had intervened only in the early days to try to dissuade D. Acisclo of to meddle in
elections, but D. Acisclo not let anyone convince anyone, and when
recognized and his nephew, retreated, paused, and did not even imply
that knew which engulfed his uncle walked welter.

To him pretty upset and laziness and lack of formality of the candidate. The candidate had promised
to visit the district, elections are coming up, and that D. Jaime
no arrived.

His opponent was already installed in the house of D. Paco, promising jobs for when return to
power, it would be soon, selling protection, and conquering minds.

Don Jaime, meanwhile, not only coming, but scarcely deigned to write,
except for D. Acisclo, and that from time to time and laconic style,
dry place.

But be that as it may, the set was already committed, to D. Acisclo was a matter of pride; and although
D. Jaime had been the devil, D. Acisclo had thrown the rest to get
triumphant.

In sum, not to tire my readers, I'll end by saying that Don finally picked Acisclo the reward
of his labors.

The elections came, and D. Acisclo won the election. Congressman Don Jaime Pimentel left by
a large majority.

Some want to imply that D. Acisclo did a thousand stage machinery and falsehoods, but nothing
could prove, and therefore should not believe.

Don Jaime Pimentel, without leaving the court, not just write a letter, with the highest calm, was
pleased to receive your certificate, almost clean, they only had two minor protests and ill-founded.

The
joy of D. Acisclo was great after the win. Lauro yours! Which shows
of power that had just given!

With an invisible candidate, careless, lazy, with an enemy so strong, so unique, so as phoenix pattern
and the representatives of the people, had achieved win and win by a landslide. After marveling
at his own capacity for policy, only acknowledged debtor D. Juan
Fresco and abundant peat bermejinos that followed on the day of the
election as a respected leader.

Throughout this long election period, the friendly relations and Dona Luz P. Enrique it was closing more
every day. To Dona Manolita, drifting of the enthusiasm of her husband, or share it, I never thought
more than in elections.

Doña Luz and father were certainly the only two people in a certain position in the whole district,
had not thought of this or the other candidate, and who had not toiled for victory any of them. 

In
the midst of political turmoil, had been found in the same withdrawal sweet home of those who promoted,
and there were talks soft and lofty, and pleasant conversations, you always learn something Dona
Luz, which was always new excellence in understanding and in the
heart of the father and the father, in turn, never failed to amaze
the clearance, sharpness, the remarkable discretion of poetic fantasy
and exquisite sensitivity its fine interlocutor.

Don Anselmo was third in the debates, although not as much, for having been too D. Acisclo very
interested in the election. And the priest Don Miguel had kept going to record to socialize,
while Father's wise dialogue and Dona Luz magnetized and enthralled him in such a way, that
within minutes of beginning to hear, he would stay asleep, sometimes accompanied and animated
with music and endless sound of snoring.

It was from this that the only person who was really consistent and intelligent control of mutual
affection and intimate conversation of Mrs. Light and the Father, was Dona Manolita. I I do not
want to do this, or any of my heroes, better than they are or what they were. Doña Manolita
was not a dove without gall, and not because they hated someone, but because he kept have malice.
Rather, it could tick Dona Manolita have it.

Rather it could be acknowledge that without envy or bitterness, and just for the sake of art,
like some gossip, and still too much, as a rule for his judgments, that terrible sentence
wrong and think be right. However, thanks to the loving devotion that inspired him Dona Luz,
she played always more benevolent side all his acts and speeches. Therefore, although insight
Dona Manolita long time could not hide that irresistible inclination of two souls, Dona Manolita
never failed to do justice to Dona Luz, and acknowledged and declared, back in bottom of his
chest, in her friend had not the slightest intention of disrupting the mood Father's lure with
flirting or blamed.

The respect and affection of the doctor's daughter Fr Enrique were great too, but not both that
any failure would prevent something completely opposite of their behavior. Doña Manolita then,
without thinking that Dona Luz had given no occasion for it or why he began to suspect the
Father, more or less confused and vaguely, was in love. Respect for his friend and because in
the places people do not walk the ethereal subtleties or passed over still, and because to
say something she had given rise to be added much, Donna and her father Manolita entrusted with
the results of his observations. Entrusted only to Güeto Pepe, who was hiding anything; but demanding
the deepest secrecy.

The severity of the Father Dona Luz and cut flights to all the boldness of Dona Manolita who never molested
directing the Father, even as a joke and rodeos and circumlocution, indirect darker on the passion
that he imagined. Doña Manolita continued, however, watching. Pepe
Güeto also observed.

Both spouses are then communicated what they had observed. Of Thus came the two to corroborate
the idea that the Father, perhaps without knowing it, loved Dona Luz by mystical and subtle
style, and that Dona Luz worship was left without assuming any disgusting term, without reflecting
on all the significance that this worship might have, and seeing in it more than a tender friendship,
friendly and impeccable, as she professed the convalescent and poetic mission.

It happened in an incident that was not expected now. Suddenly, when D. Acisclo had resigned
to his deputy were invisible to the district, he immediately wrote him telling him that came
to visit. The first town that was to be presented Villafría, whence horse, and the corresponding
bubble, was to pass to travel and visit other towns.

Don Acisclo was glad of this coming, which would give the greatest importance, but had to strive
to have good things to do D. Jaime Pimentel brilliant reception. To accommodate you with dignity
and even luxury, came to asking the best Dona Luz rooms of his ancestral home, not occupied by his
nephew, and to offer D. Jaime a good horse to ride and go from village to village, also went
to Dona Luz, asking lent her beautiful black horse. Luz had to agree to everything.

The day before they had to reach D. Jaime, everyone was abuzz in place with the great feast
of the reception would be. To Dona Manolita was more cheerful than usual and very talkative. In the
daily gatherings she attended only Dona Luz and the Father because
the rest were still busy with the preparations for the party, or relaxing
from the hustle that day.

Donna then had an occurrence Manolita something malicious, and that
his feelings had to give much light on their research.

Why was not to tease Dona Luz, predicting that D. Jaime, who said fame wonderful praise, and
he was free and single, would love it, just to see her with the happy surprise of finding in
a small village as complete paragon of elegance, distinction and beauty? Why, to tease and Dona
Luz, with some the flatter, could not make a joke rather heavy covertly to the Father, whose
love, tangled and murky in the center of consciousness, it would clarify with the reagent
jealousy? Doña Manolita, after making a joke, I would look to the
Father, to see if they budge or remained impassive, seemingly at least.

As

I said than done. Manolita said Dona Dona Luz D. Jaime was going to fall in love with her, just
saw her, that D. Jaime did not suspect that in a place so cornered as Villafria much treasure was
hidden, and that, in his view, it was clear the future of D. Love
Jaime.

- What stranger - he continued - not in love with you, who
have come to Villafria young, free and in a state of merit?

Prepare, therefore, the syrup with you usually tip the pumpkins, if you think also give to
it. But who knows? The suitor, which Columbro and is not rustic, or local, as you've had so
far. They say it the cream of the elegant Madrid, and also a brave soldier and a man of great
future and extraordinary talent. Will you be so fierce that also despise?

Doña Luz, without anger, but rather something flattered, responded by denying the validity
of the forecast, and ensuring, with a little mock modesty, that Don Jaime, accustomed to seeing
on the court so beautiful women, it would notice it or would ignore.

- In addition - "Dona Luz - no fear that I intend to that gentleman.

I'm not what is called a good game. For him it needs a rich heiress, to give wings to his ambition,
and not a poor girl that string and will serve as a burden and nuisance. Believe me, Manuela,
and I've said a thousand times, I never will marry me ... I do not
want to marry.

Let's not talk nonsense, even in jest.

Doña Manolita during these sentences between her friend and she crossed, glanced Father and thought
he saw had been paler than usual. Otherwise the Father remained silent and did not give their
opinion or possible crush on D. Jaime, no the constant aim of Dona Luz to stay single.

At ten o'clock he retired to his home, and the two friends were left
alone.

Dona Manolita then encouraged with how well his first joke was tolerated,
and such Once grateful as flattery, in the depths of the soul of the
daughter of the Marquis, was tempted venturing to make another joke
a lot less light.

Without thinking much, he said, because, as follows:

- Ay! Daughter! I regret having said what's D. Jaime.

- Why do you regret? - Simply asked Dona Luz -. I do not think probable that courtly knight falls in love
with me, in three or four days you have to be here, but and even that is impossible, or you
are offended me, estimated at more than I deserve, I foretell such a triumph, you have to do
to repent, but for the fear of too exalted my pride.

- It's not that fear - said the doctor's daughter - which leads me to repentance, but fear
of having hurt a sensitive heart, of having made a deep wound.

- I do not understand - "Dona Luz -, what do you mean? What is this tender heart?

- The P. Enrique - said in an evil hour Mrs. Manolita.

Luz blushed scarlet. All the blood in his body would be turned up to head. All the pride of
caste was gathered and piled in his heart. Saw nothing but ridiculous indignant they believed
that the object of the passion of a friar. She believed that a friar could admired for their
talent, estimated by his virtues revered for its impeccable behavior,
and taste their intercourse and conversation, and pleased to be your
friend, but seemed to fall in love so absurd, so contrary to all the
conveniences and social and religious laws, so monstrously ugly and
shocking, I did not want, or could, or should suspect it in person
the trial, the circumspection and even sanctity in the P. Enrique
showed.

Luz looked for, as an evil villain and mean Manolita Dona thought
and expression as an insult of that thinking through the floor.

-
What you have just uttered - said in a voice stammering with rage
- is an insult, it a harsh accusation against Fr Henry and me.

Neither the father is delirious, and I have given occasion to rave. A clean so that my fame
is protected from slander, I've enclosed in this place, I have separated
almost everything humanely, I fled the youth, while I was young, be
so still, as I am, I have admitted my privacy but old sixty years
as your father, the priest, Don Acisclo, and none of this has earned
me.

For me, about thirty years I have left, I have trusted with pleasure, I declare frankly in friendship
honored servant of God, tested in a thousand hardships, broken by them, full of science and
virtue, not conceived this friendship, this treatment is not explained,
but vile and impure motives.

And there are the rustic place, not that I do not know, but my best friend and me I suspect injury.

Poor
Donna was terrified Manolita: is pricked, and after he burst into tears.

- But, my dear - he said -, do not get mad for love of God. I certainly have explained me wrong.
I I'm not saying that is impure the Father's love ....

- What nonsense are yours? - Interrupted Dona Luz -. What loss of ideas? What foolish distinctions
intend to do? How do you explain away the love of a brother to a girl honored? Such love is
always impure, is infamous, it is sacrilegious.

Viewing Dona Manolita there was no way to remedy his clumsiness, and have irritated apuradísima
both Dona Luz, whom he loved with all my heart, did not utter a single word, but cried and sobbed as
if he had come upon the most cruel misfortune.

Then Dona Luz, who had a good background, despite his pride, he felt he had been hard rough and too
much, and apologized to Mrs. Manolita, kissing and all but crying
too.

The two friends came to get a result much more friendly than before. Luz was convinced Dona Manolita
that he had not intended to tarnish in the least purity friendly
relations with the P. Henry, and Mrs. Manolita made by convincing
and even convinced by the time that P. Henry, even as Dante loved
Beatrice, like Petrarch Laura loved, or loved Dulcinea Don Quixote,
was able to doña Luz love, because, being him a monk and she a highly
educated lady and honestísima, such love, convoluted, spiritual and
incorporeal as it was, had a something unseemly and grotesque commoner
the sinful condition of your beautiful and superb fitted very bad
friend.

No well-finished to make peace, came Don Pepe Güeto Acisclo who did not notice last traces of
the storm.

They dined in the four friendly company, and with good appetite,
and then went to sleep.

The next day was celebrated with pomp and din the triumphal entry of D. Jaime in Villafría.
Few had horses, and not a few who had only mule or donkey, went at dawn to greet at the station,
with D. Acisclo the front, and about eleven o'clock they all returned to the deputy, Knight him
in the beautiful black horse Dona Luz.

At the gates of the place came the boys and men on foot to receive the ride lucida, and they
all went through the streets to the sound of the bells that were cast in flight between live
and cheers, and thunderous shot from air guns were serviceable in many Villafría.

-XIII-

Crisis

Having rejected as cruel despondency Manolita Dona words and then
of made peace, Dona Luz thought to their own in the value and purpose
of those words; and, as if a strange new light illuminate the darkest
labyrinths of his brain, thought he heard the whole truth and acknowledged
that his friend had some show of reason to say he said.

Luz was angry perhaps because his own conscience, taking advantage of the words Dona Manolita had
entered a more severe charge. What difference is radical and important is between the tender and
exclusive friendship between the most marked predilection a man for a woman and a woman by
a man, neither old yet, and love purest, most sublime Platonic? Luz itself is put this matter, and
not conceive resolve but in the sense that no difference occurs, or, if given, only is obvious and
subtle cigar breaks, I decided it was not absurd or insolence to
assume and claim that she was in love with Fr Enrique. Father, chained
by respect, taking into account their state, their votes and positions,
he had kept well to state their love in a way that would make even
remotely suspect that it was not legitimate and unblemished; but certainly
in the bottom of his soul he felt.

Dona Luz after leaving this as
sitting and obvious, he asked again: "What about me I done to inspire
this passion? What acquire fault that he loves me? To what extent
have given and continue to give fuel to his affection? ". The answer
was that Dona Luz was contradictory and confusing. Ora was condemned,
now is absolved. Was condemned to recognize that she had concealed
much less than the complacency with which he heard him, the glad sight
caused him, the delight in his conversation he always brought, and
she instinctively reckless, but depraved, liked to look beautiful
and elegant at all, and particularly people who wanted among which
could not fail to include the Father