 In the 24 degrees and 23 minutes between, on the east, the Cuarepotí: in 24 degrees
and 29 minutes, the Ibobi. But 50 minutes down on the same level, enters the same side of the
Tobatí in an arm of Paraguay, whose entrance into the tip of the island is further south (and
the first tip when it comes up in the arm), two stones who come to the flower water, which
should be departing ships, or to take course at the river wider, leaving the eastern part of
the island. In the Tobatí fit, before his fall in Paraguay, the river Capiatá.

In the 24 degrees 56 minutes will go to Paraguay, in the west, the river Mboicaé. In 24 and
58, little above the fort of Arecutacuá, enter through the east the Peribebuí, and more down,
in 25 gr. and a minute, go on the same side the river Salado. Deep down, almost at the same
height, enter the western margin Piraí river.

The city of Assumption is 25 gr. 17 min. 15 seconds of latitude, 320 gr. 12 min. of length, according
to some markers. Others found 25, 16, latitude 320, 10 in length. Deep down is via three mouths,
the West Bank, the famous river Pilcomayo, which brings its waters cerranias Potosi, and runs
through the Chaco. In the 25 gr. 32 min. Paraguay makes a narrow entrance, taking only a rifle
shot from a river to another, and is At this place the fort called La Angostura. The Tebicuari
enter Paraguay by the east, in 26 gr. 35 min. Down by the river boats of Our Lady of Santa Fe
and Rosa.

The Rio Grande, or Bermejo enters the Paraguay by the West in 26 gr. 54 min., And her mouth
is far the city of Corrientes eleven leagues from the air, the river is 17, or 18. Comes Bermejo
of the mountains that are between Salta and Tarija: through much of the Chaco: the color of
its waters is something vermilion. In coming together with Paraguay, infects waters it, so
that the water is unhealthy until concurs in Corrientes Parana. They join the rivers Paraná and
Paraguay at the forefront of this city, which is located on the eastern margin, at 27 degrees
and 27 minutes latitude, 319 and 55 minutes in length. Seven Flames of Corrientes city, because
the land where the city is, for seven stone points, leaving the river, where the current is stronger
Paraná. From here loses the name Paraguay, because the Paraná, but mighty as yours keeps up
near Buenos Aires, where, along with Uruguay, flows into the sea with the name of Rio de la Plata,
so named because brought from here some articles of silver and gold the first conquerors of
Paraguay, which had brought jewelry Indians in Paraguay first entry made to the people of Peru
with Alejo Garcia and his colleagues, according to is written in
Argentina Rui Diaz de Guzman