 Money!
What was hard to win and how necessary it was for life! ... And the "beautiful hatbox" Isidro slyly as
he called, squinting talking about the sacrifices imposed the business, how sad he was leaving his
small apartment in the Avenue des Ternes, where everything was in order and ready for the necessities
of life, with the care of a woman who knows how to value to the small things to put in place.
Child spoke tenderly Chiffon, cat obese and shiny, and two canaries that had been entrusted to
the caretaker. Other times remembered sadly the "good friend" who would wander down the boulevard
waiting for his return, a young truly chic, though poor, with whom relations had for some
years. And friends! And the theaters! And you had to leave everything ... business! "Life is
sad decidedly sad. "

When Isidro, who could not approach a female without initiating an attempt desirable possession, he
considered it his duty to show love for Marcela, it welcomed his words with some severity ... A
man who went to the New World seeking fortune in baubles think you could love take the necessary
time for business! Life is serious, and youth must take advantage to ensure a future. Then, when it
backed the savings, one can afford something crazy ... Did not she also suffered because of
the business, having to make your trip to America where there's friends, wrote to him that
the harvest was good and the money would circulate in abundance? ... In all ports filled postcards
with intense love phrases learned in comedies. I could not read then a few yellow pages of
that volume three francs fifty, then escaped from his arm down or was forgotten on the couch.
I thought about the "good friend", the chic man without resources, leaving for some time. It had
been portrayed numerous times by a waiter on board that exploited the snapshot, and these sheets
of paper would go the way of Paris in the first scale that would make the ship, shown standing
and watching the sea with melancholy, or lying on the couch with the face resting in one hand
and eyes 'dream', crocheting, Read more ... but always thinking about him.

- I have my beguin - kept her in their language polyglot -.

But be serious, Right? and think about the money for the old days. If I were one to ignore
all that say they love! Clubs, hey, believe me ... Furthermore, you are poor, and I do not
understand a poor man, has no significance for me I do not know what could be it. I know many
not have a sous and are friendly, but treat them as comrades all. Gaston my friend, went bankrupt,
and even now in the mash, will have money when they die their aunts ... Do not look for Cabotin
love me not stir niente. I'm too old to believe that. To me the pigolita! ...

And for their unbelief aShow love Jobbers deaf to all the gestures,
words and oaths of parishioners, the phrase repeated with delight
Creole final obliged every speech: "To me the piolita!".

Maltrana was not the only one who had approached wanting to interfere
with diabolical proposals Argonaut your peace of thoughtful and prudent,
that placid digestion monastic quietism and long naps, it was for
her greatest charm of ocean travel.

Her eyes clear blue, her blonde hair ashen, her white flesh, juicy and light shades yellow like
the fresh flesh of a melon, seemed recovered with new charms well as the days passed.