 It wants to live there many years, in a ceaseless contemplation of love and contemplation and
poetry ....

Is passed under the portico of the fortress, leaving
the forest town of mysterious harmonies and the traveler is in the
vast courtyard of the cisterns.

In the center tanks as underground cavity is immense: the south the Alcazaba, the tower and
platforms Prisons and late in the tower high Vela, north of Summer Palace to the right, a wide
street to the left leads to the town or citadel, and the center's palace Charles V, and noble
colossal ruin attributions a small part of the site that covers the Hall Winter of the Moorish
kings. Wherever debris giant, desolation and sadness, - the skeleton colossal military and artistic
miracle of civilization ....

Going up from the dusty stairs broken walls of the gloomy building
Prisons steps abroad resonate within the granite mass of brick and
very hard, producing recondite echoes that seem the cries of the victims
huddled under such time tremendous vaults.

When it comes to the broad label of that vast tomb, and breathing free air under the sky Granada
poetic, it feels like a kind of resurrection. We went up to the Torre de la Vela, eager to embrace the
stunning skyline that includes from there. It was at that point where great tremolo for the
first time the standard of Catholic kings, the January 2, 1492, to announce to all the inhabitants
of the Vega Boabdil's reign had ended.

The ambition to reveal the deep emotions that I dominated during contemplation of that wonderful
show. I looked around, gave a cry of supreme pleasure, me and the bastion of high rim to keep
from falling, because I snatched vertigo, and silent, trembling,
breath, I felt a tear that escaped me as the purest tribute .... It
was looking at the image of my country!

Indeed, given consideration to the distances and proportions and to the details characteristic
there is nothing like as rare offering in the set as the Vega of Granada with its mountains,
views from the Alhambra, and the plain of Bogotá, surrounded by hills,
viewed from the heights of "Montserrat."

Reason was the conqueror of my country to call New Granada, and still give to his capital the name
of Santa Fe, in memory of the town of the Catholic Monarchs (Which is hard to see from the Alhambra)
bold the birthplace of Gonzalo Jimenez de Quesada.

The picture is recorded with the view from the Torre de la Vela is much superior to beauty can
imagine.

At the foot lies the city of Granada, falling in an inclined plane towards the plain, full of whims,
interesting details, magnificent groves at intervals, towers and monuments of various shapes,
caressed by the Jenil on one side, sliced Mud on the other, and surrounded by a vast belt of
cármenes (orchards, gardens and houses field) which has the most luxurious vegetation. On the right
stands the bracket mountains where you can admire the beauties of Monte Santo and Albaicin neighborhood,
suburb subway where they live under rocks, in misery and dejection, the mysterious race of
Gypsies; and opens at the bottom of the hill that separates the Alhambra and the Jeneralife, falls
in gardens, mills and forests of fruit trees on Barro moody, miserable stream so quickly as a
mighty stream.

Then in the bottom of the picture, the gorgeous Vega - where once
occupied in the fair his spirit, his gallantry and hatreds and ambitions
and Zegries Abencerrajes, and you can taste intelligente race prodigies
of art work in agriculture and in the ingenious manufacturing activity.

La Vega de Granada is literally a sea of ??verdure, in which background highlight many populations,
reaching to distinguish between other Santa Fe, the two Gavia Churriana, doublet and Alendin.
Groups of these stocks are a very funny game lined with trees that indicate the course of roads
and streams and the demarcation of estates, with cereal plantations, mulberry, orange, hazelnut,
lemon, pomegranates, olives, almonds and many fruit trees, and the thousand and gorgeous country
houses Paradise cármenes Granada.

Finally, all that is splendid landscape framed by the mountains of the Sierra-Nevada, where in
the top of the amphitheater of hills and inclines, and on huge pedestals abrupt granite and marble stands
out as the spine of a sea of ??shining silver cord of eminences crowned
with perpetual snow, which seems to be sending to the European reflections
the scorching sun of Africa .... In one of these amphitheatres of
hills can see the sigh of the Moro, from the top of the defeated Boabdil
say launched the latest look and the last the gentle farewell to Granada,
and conquered by the armies of Ferdinand and Isabella ....

Descended
from the Torre de la Vela to enter the sanctuary of art voluptuous
Orientals by the rare contrast to the palace of Charles V. What page
of civilizations different stone laid on the same hill!

In the towers Bermejas and Vela, the Phoenician and Roman architecture, the Alcazaba, the Moorish
architecture of the second period; at the Alhambra Palace (summer) and refined the florid style
of the third period, and ruined palace of Charles V the classical architecture of the Renaissance.
So, in just a space reduced, many different races and civilizations have their representation!

One
can imagine the wonderful grandeur that must have the most important part of the Alhambra (Winter
Palace) just know that the vast building now called "palace of Charles V "just takes up a
quarter of the place that is covered by the main building the Alhambra,
which was destroyed by the king's vanity proud emperor.

Today the building has only its magnificent walls and facades, interior archways and elements of sumptuous
palace. Its exterior shape is square, but inside is perfectly circular, as if he had tried to
establish there a Roman circus. That splendid ruin called much attention, but it does not matter
as the summer palace, because the traveler arrives alone concerned with what is in the nature of
Moorish or Oriental.

The first impression that one feels upon entering the venue is famous
for disappointment.

Have weighted both the wonders of the Alhambra and its grandeur, that the visit is found very
inferior to the descriptions made by travel enthusiasts. Since then, wonder today is but a
detail of what was the residence of the kings of Granada and their court; and even a few years here
working to restore the Summer Palace, which collapsed in ruins and has been devastated by barbarian
visitors from all countries, there are patios and rooms whose condition does not correspond
to what the artists and antique dealers who believed it should contain the palace.

I would need to write hundreds of pages (and misspelled) if to indicate detail everything of
luxury, caprice, picturesque refinement, wealth and ornaments specialty
art and style, in those marble and tiled patios filled water and treats,
such as the Myrtles and the Lions, those walls studded with arabesques
gorgeous, those shiny floors and covered with mosaic tiles and whimsical;
those that seem cedar paneling embroidered by the chisel of a fairy;
those vaults and ceilings and roofs of various shapes, modeling plaster,
whose color moldings one hundred vivid echoes resound singular that
group of marble lions that seem to be telling the world today loves
the sultanas and harem slaves, those rooms wonderful stucco filigree,
which hold within its walls a thousand memories, under the names Ambassadors
room of the Sisters, Justice, the Abencerrajes (which makes evoke
the shadows of the victims), Queen of Lindaraja, etc., those gardens
filled sources and myrtle and orange, those alabaster baths and toilets
of voluptuousness; the mosque to remember an entire poetic and sublime
religion, those difficult passages, basements and stairways in labyrinths,
and those air balconies suspended over depths for that queens and
princesses blackberries might behold the cármenes del Darro, the nearby
hills and the city and its plain, splashing with delight in the light
of the morning and gusts of aromas and harmonies that gave off the
orchards, gardens and streams and birds thousand in the Alhambra skirts
dominates with its walls and towers, their roofs and shutters.

If you ask me what is in summary my opinion on the Summer Palace, say, to risk of not pleasing to
the artists or to the Spanish fans who boast of a monument due to a civilization pursued by Catholic
Spain: The rest of the Alhambra is a fraction nomas, is curious, but not great and noble: it's
nice but not beautiful. There reveals all the slave, not the real artist, all are deeply voluptuous
and artificial; everything speaks to the senses, to the brutal passions (love lewd, gambling,
hatred and revenge), there is nothing that addresses the mind, the
soul divine - anything that is noble, delicate and sublime.

The Alhambra is not the work of an artistic people, as were the Gothic churches the same time, but
the automatic work-slave labor, obedience to a mandate designed by a master, whom dominated the
instinct of pleasure, habit of authority suspicious, vengeful and sensual.

In general, although they are funny varieties in colors and shapes of ornaments, the work shows
in all rooms and rooms of the Alhambra is as homogeneous his genius or his style, and even in
its execution, which reveals the wealth of fantasy artist but the patient hand of a craftsman imitating
a model unchanged, or using molds for affixing the carved plaster or arabesques. The stone
does there any role in pertains to the art, almost all in plaster or plastic, and in the woodwork
wealth of work is secondary. That consideration is greatly diminished the value of comparative
exquisite details of the palace. When going around, the soul does not experience any emotion,
and almost feel the tremors of the flesh as if behind every door was asleep between flowers and
perfumes, on a bed of marble, a princess or slave naked-eye hot and ebony hair ....

But there is something singular in the Alhambra, and is cheating anyway, producing different impressions,
according to the visits that are made and the mood overseas. Which have not read anything about
the Alhambra is wonderful to see her. Anyone who has read the descriptions Washington Irving, Theophile
Gautier and other writers, the reality is lower in the first time, and leaves the Alhambra quite disappointed.
But if you come back tomorrow and see everything, and meditate to
guess the past that disappeared, an idea is acquired better, each
visit to the Alhambra feel that grows in the imagination and has more
and more charms.

Finally, if it is seen from the top of Jeneralife height, and crosses all the land round the
Alhambra appears the spirit in all its grandeur set that was, and the findings vary.

We go up to the Alhambra in four different days for different sides and paths, and looking all
their faces or their views. Viewed from the hill or from the Jeneralife Albaicin, prints are different.
From the first point is the original looks, superb and picturesque. From the second it is completely
understood, finding it great, wonderful and very complex.

The Jeneralife was the cottage, in a sense, of the Alhambra. It has its seat in a upper hill, immediately
to the plain of the Alhambra, and is, in turn, dominated by another highest hill, where once existed
a fortress that Marshal Soult was to fly for Napoleon's war, and
whose ruins are still few scattered on the mound.

By foot of floor debris artificial stream waters lavishes salladoras to Jeneralife, The Alhambra,
Granada cármenes neighbors. A huge deep runs the Darro, and, HOWEVER, creek that was, from many
miles away, brought abundant streams palaces and gardens to the industrious Moors, these sun-lovers
and playful waters.

Jeneralife The building is outside the fortifications of the Alhambra, but was viaducts linked
by air. That was where rested and bathed the princesses, ladies cutting and slave, enjoying endless
pleasure in a wonderful sky, between thousand perfumes, rumors and fads, in pools and marble
tubs, and having to round the most charming of the world horizon. The Jeneralife consists of a maze
of roundabouts pavilions, gazebos, fountains whimsical, bathrooms, orchards, gardens and a
thousand beauties artificial where they were heavily agglomerated
and willing the rich marble and jasper, beautiful stucco, delicate
arabesques, the beautiful tiles, Cascadilla, terraces, groups myrtle,
orange, jasmine, pomegranate and rose form the most graceful figures,
and As was characteristic of Oriental art, so adept in the arrangement
of colors, orientation of buildings, water distribution and plant
cultivation.

From there you have the full picture of the Alhambra, Sr. had an immense work, formidable and
very varied conditions. First line of fortifications, under the edges leading the circumference
of the plain, enclosed it all: the citadel and palaces, parks and gardens and Jeneralife. Another
more formidable line as a whole, with many towers Here and there, separating the Alhambra and
the citadel of the parks, the Jeneralife, etc.; and finally, the palaces themselves from the
residences of the Court were separated from the mass who composed the citadel, divided into many
streets with gardens, where no doubt lived courtesans families and perhaps a part of the garrison.
Today everything is almost in ruins, exception of the Summer Palace
and the Great Mosque, there are many empty spaces, the towers have
collapsed, the interior gardens are skeleton, and in the streets of
this small strengths enclosed court city, many houses are empty and
others are inhabited but for families destitute and beggars.

* * * * *

Granada's cathedral, dating from the XV and XVI, but his great and splendid gender and a wonderful
richness of ornamentation and detail, is, according to my taste, lower the other cathedrals of
Spain, as a whole. I have a passion for the grim determination solemnity, originality and boldness
of the Gothic cathedrals, they are monuments typical, popular and in harmony with the stern
seclusion of religion. But disgust me in temples and effeminate scholastic refinements of
the Renaissance, they do evoke memory of paganism. Granada's cathedral, built by the Catholic Monarchs
is the purest Renaissance style, combining different types of orders. Is a great monument
of majestic proportions, but heavy in mass, without boldness and
forms a regularity that interested at first, just to be monotonous.

A huge ship making its semicircle at the bottom and embraces the two sides, as the ships side,
and three in the center round the vast building. A choir in poor central hours designed, cut
the body of the building, removing much of its majesty, and, except Some reliefs of a beautiful
marble altars gable-proud, only draws attention by its two huge bodies, whose pipes penetrating the
roof seem to want to launch to heaven their solemn melodies.