 Oh calamity! Go, bring a bottle of essences. We ran
out of philosophy! There is no longer possible philosophy. Since there are only positive sciences
and prosaic. I killed my philosopher. (He leans over him and embraced him with the greatest tenderness.)
Smells bad, but ... Is so wise! Is so good!

SCENE XII.

SUCH, ATESTAIS.

(Atenais Asclepigenia helps care for Proclus, using a jar of scents to their noses)

Atenais .-- Calm down. It's nothing.

And regains consciousness.

Asclepigenia .-- I have been a good scare!

Poor thing my dear! Too bad it gave me!

Proclus. (Gets up.) - Forgive me, friend. It was a moment of weakness.

(Repairing in Atenais.) Who is this dashing damsel?

Asclepigenia .-- It Atenais, daughter of Leonard.

PROCLEAN .-- The daughter of my learned and illustrious friend!

... Heaven bless you, Atenais!

Asclepigenia .-- Will you forgive me, Proclus?

PROCLEAN .-- Say no more of the past: forget it.

Asclepigenia .-- Will you live with me?

PROCLEAN .-- I do not want and I can live without you. You are the star that illuminates with
its gentle light the melancholy evening of my life. These soft white hands (making hers) sealed with
love when they meet my eyes to sleep the last sleep.

Contigo .-- Asclepigenia not miss neither wealth nor the body beautiful ... What else beauty
that more wealth than the treasures of your soul?

If required, we will live to the fullest strait.

Something I can spoil the cook's hands and clothing remendarte. Elegance, dedication, the scent of
aristocratic distinction will vanish almost entirely when live miserably. But what matter? Do I
possess your soul and mine?
PROCLEAN .-- There has to be. Not consent to be lost or deteriorate
even a spark or an atom of all the beauty that nature gave you and
that art has been completed and enhanced. I earn wealth for you. For
you will have lush beauty and youth body.

Asclepigenia .-- Do not
freak out, Proclus. The youth is gone, never returns. Venus Urania
not visited you for no reason. As for wealth, I certainly did not
ever win a mite with all your philosophy, unless that appeals to the
miracle.

PROCLEAN .-- Well, the miracle appealed. Now you will see
who I am. Here I love you, oh Theurgy! For something I have to serve.
So far, Asclepigenia idolized, and have owned in Eumorfo in Crematurgo
beauty, youth and wealth, quotas, limited and outdated. From now on
later you will have youth, beauty and wealth at all and forever. Saved
religious silence. And starts the spell.

(Deep silence. Proclus,
waving his stick, he draws air in circles, and other magical figures,
and muttered unintelligible words. Hear celestial music, slow and
submissive. In the center of the theater is a brilliant and candid
curdled cloud with carmine red glow, gold and pearl.)

And Atenais
Asclepigenia .-- What wonder!

PROCLEAN .-- Hiding in the cloud you
already have, at your service and your service, replacing Eumorfo
and Crematurgo, the archer Apollo, the most elegant and beautiful
of the gods, and the son of Jasion and Ceres, Pluto the blind, a dispenser
of wealth. Want to go with retinues of muses, graces, nymphs, genii,
or go alone