 To stroll with Argensola had to squeeze through the service
stairs and take advantage of other tricks of college.

Mr. Desnoyers had never gone so pleased with the streets of Paris as the side This strapping
young man with his cloak of glorious old age and chest enhanced by two awards: the Croix de
Guerre and the Military Medal. He was a hero and this hero was his son. Looks sympathetic to
the public on the trams and the Underground Railroad accepted them as a tribute to both. Interesting
glimpses of the women threw the good waiter produced a tickling vanity and anxiety. All military
was, for more gallons and cross-bearing, seemed "ambushed" unworthy to be compared with July. The
wounded descended from the cars leaning on sticks and crutches will inspire a sense of sorry
humiliating for them. Woe! ... They had the fate of his son. A does not who had killed him,
and when by chance he received a wound, his remains were erased immediately, without detriment
to the grace of his person.

Sometimes, especially at night, showed an unexpected magnanimity, leaving Just come out in July.
He remembered his youth winner in love, which had many successes achieved before the war. Now do
not get your prestige brave soldier! ... Walking through the bedroom before bed, he imagined
the hero in the pleasant company a great lady. Only a female celebrity was worthy of him, his paternal
pride not accept less ... And it never could happen Argensola Julio was with a music-hall,
in a cinema, enjoying the simple pleasures of the monotonous and overshadowed by Paris war,
with the simplicity of taste of a second lieutenant, and that in point of loving his success
good fortune did not extend beyond the renewal of some old friendships.

One afternoon, when he walked beside her down the Champs Elysees, shuddered when she saw a
lady coming in the opposite direction. Was Mrs. Laurier ... Do recognize July? Thought perceive that it
was becoming pale, turning his eyes to other people affected distraction. She continued, upright,
indifferent. The old almost irritated at such coldness. Pass with his son without the instinct
let him know his presence! Ah, women! ... Turned head to follow her, but immediately had to
withdraw its hint. Was surprised Marguerite still behind them, with the pallor of surprise, staring
deep in the military going away. Don Marcelo felt read in his eyes the admiration, love, everything
past suddenly resurfaced in his memory. Poor girl ... Affection felt for her paternal, as
if the wife of July. Lacour his friend had returned to talk of marriage Laurier. Margarita knew was
going to be a mother. And the old, regardless of reconciliation of the spouses or the passage of
time, he was excited about this motherhood, as if his son had taken part in it.

Meanwhile, Julio was going, without turning his head, unaware of this look fixed on the back,
pale and humming to conceal his emotion. And he knew nothing. Continued believe that Margaret
had passed by him without knowing, for the old silent.

One of the concerns of Don Marcelo was to ensure that your child tells of the meeting war who
had been wounded.

No visitor came to his house to see the sergeant, without leave the
old man making the same request:

- Tell us how you hurt ... Explain
how you killed the German captain.

July apologized with visible discomfort. I was tired of their own
history.

To please his father had done the story before the Senate, to Argensola and Tchernoff in their
study, to other family friends who had come to see him ... I could
not more.

And the father was rushing the story on their own, giving relief and
details of an event seen with his own eyes.

Had to take over the ruins of a sugar refinery in front of the trench. The Germans had been expelled
by the French cannonade. Recognition was needed, guided by an insurance man. And the chiefs
were appointed, as always, Sergeant Desnoyers.

At daybreak, the platoon had advanced cautiously, without hindrance. Soldiers scattered throughout
the ruins. July was only until the end of them, for the purpose of examining the positions of
the enemy, when, turning to an angle of wall, was the most unexpected encounters. A German
captain was facing him. They had almost struck the around the corner. They looked into the
eyes, with more surprise than hatred, while seeking kill by instinct,
trying to win each other in speed.

The captain had released the letter of the country in his hands. His right hand sought his revolver,
struggling out of the case, without for a moment his eyes of the enemy. Then gave up, convinced
that this movement was useless. Too late. Her eyes, wide open for the proximity of death, followed
in the French fixed. This had thrown the gun to face. A shot from close range ... and the
German fell round.

Only then looked at the captain's orderly, who was walking a few steps
behind him.

The soldier fired his rifle against Desnoyers, wounding him in the shoulder. Came the French,
killing ordinance. Then crossed a live enemy fire with the company, which had beyond high as his head
was exploring the terrain.

July, in spite of the wound, continued in front of his section, defending the plant against
superior forces until finally aid arrived and the ground was definitely in the hands of the French.

-
Was it not so, my son? - Ended Don Marcelo.

The son nodded, wishing I had done a story as soon as possible annoyed
by their persistence.

Yes, they had been. But what his father knew what he would not say never, was the discovery
I had done after killing the captain.

The two men, looking face to face for a second that seemed an age, showed in their eyes more
than the surprise of the meeting and wish to be deleted. Desnoyers
known to man.

The captain, meanwhile, was known to him. I could tell in his gesture ... But each of them, with
the desire to kill to stay alive, could not muster memories.

Desnoyers fired with the certainty that he killed an acquaintance. Then, as directed the defense
of the position awaiting the arrival of reinforcements, he hit the suspect that that enemy whose
body was at a short distance could be a member of his family, one of the Hartrott. It seemed,
however, older than his cousins ??and his much younger than Uncle Karl. This, with his years, was
not going to appear as a mere captain of infantry.

When, weakened by blood loss, could be driven to the trenches, the sergeant wanted to see the body
of your enemy. His doubts continued pales before the face of death. The eyes are open, seemed
to keep even the impression of surprise. This man knew him undoubtedly, he also knew that face.
Who was it?

... Suddenly, with his imagination saw the sea, saw a large ship, a tall blond woman who looked
at him with narrowed eyes, a burly, mustachioed man who made speeches in the style of the emperor.
"Rest in peace, Captain Erckmann. "It had come to end in a corner of France, discussions initiated
in the middle of the ocean.

Mentally apologized, as if in the presence of the sweet Bertha.

He had to kill to avoid being killed. That's war. He tried to console ourselves that such Erckmann
had fallen without identifying time, not knowing that his killer was a fellow traveler of months
before ... And kept secret in the depths of his memory this meeting prepared by the fatality.
Failed to inform his friend Argensola, who knew the incidents Atlantic
crossing.

When least expected, Mr. Marcelo was found at the end of that life of joy and pride that he had
given the presence of his son. Fifteen days pass quickly. The sergeant left, and the whole family,
after this period of realities, had to return to the caresses deceptive illusion and hope, waiting
for the arrival of letters, making guesses about the silence of the absent, sending package
after package with all that the trade offered to the military: useful things and absurd.

The mother became very discouraged. July's trip had been used to make felt more intensely their absence.
Seeing, hearing the tales of death that the father liked to repeat, was given more aware of the
dangers that surrounded her son.

The fatality funeral seemed to warn her forebodings.

- I'll kill
- said her husband -.

That wound is a warning from heaven.

When going out shaking with emotion at the invalid soldiers.

The convalescent look strong, next to return to the front, he still inspired more pity. He remembered
a trip to San Sebastian with her husband, a bullfight he had done screaming indignation and
pity, pity on the plight of the poor horses.

Remained with the entrails hanging and in the pens were subjected to a quick cure to get back
out on the sand inflamed by false energy. Repeatedly put up with this restructuring macabre up
at last reached the last gore, the final ... Men evoked newly healed in it the image of the poor
beasts.

Some had been wounded three times since the beginning of war and patched again and galvanized
to submit to the lottery of luck, always pending the supreme blow ... Oh, your son!

Desnoyers was angry listening to his wife.

- But if no one in July to kill him! ... It's my son. I've spent in my youth by terrible hazards.
I was also wounded in the wars of this world, and yet here I am full of years.

The events were responsible for strengthening their blind faith. Misfortune rained down around
the family, saddening to their relatives, and not one touched the intrepid sergeant, who insisted
in his exploits with a heroic abandon musketeer.

Doña Luisa received a letter from Germany.

Her sister wrote from Berlin, using South American Consulate in Switzerland. This time Ms. Desnoyers
cried for someone who was not her son, wept for Elena and enemies. In Germany also had mothers,
and she placed the feeling of motherhood above all patriotic differences.

- Poor Mrs. von Hartrott! His letter, written a month earlier contained only funeral news and
words of despair. Captain Otto was dead. Also killed one of his brothers children. This, at least,
offered comfort to the mother having fallen into a domain for theirs. Could mourn beside his
grave. The other was buried in French soil, no knew where. She never discovered his remains, mingled
with hundreds of corpses ignore Where ever consumed this body out of her womb ... A third son
was wounded in Poland. His two daughters had lost their fiancés, and despair with his silent
pain. Von Hartrott was presiding patriotic societies and made plans
of aggrandizement on the next victory, but he had aged greatly in
recent months.

The "wise" was the only it was firm. The misfortunes of the family raged the ferocity of Professor
Julius von Hartrott. Calculated for a book he was writing, hundreds of billions that Germany should
be required after his triumph and parts of Europe needed to do yours ...

Ms. Desnoyers thought he heard from the avenue Victor Hugo that was
running mother cry quiet in a house in Berlin.

"You will understand my desperation, Louise ... So happy that we were! May God punish those
who have brought upon the world so much misery! The Emperor is innocent.

His enemies are to blame for everything ... "

Don Marcelo was silent in the presence of his wife.

Elena pitied for their misfortune, from ignore the political statements
of the letter.

It also touched to see how he cried Dona Luisa his nephew Otto. It had been her godmother and
godfather Desnoyers. It was true; Don Marcelo had forgotten. He saw in imagination the quiet
life of the stay, games of the urchins blonde, he stroked the back of the grandfather, before
I was born in July. For several years he had devoted his nephews all your love, bewildered by
the delay of their own child. Good faith was shaken at the thought
of Karl despair.

But then, to be only a cold selfish erased those feelings. The war was war, and others had sought.
France must defend itself, and the more enemies dropped, more ... The only thing that should
be of interest to him was in July. And his faith in the destiny of the son did experience
a brutal joy, a loving parent satisfaction to ferocity.

- In that
no one kills him ... Heart tells me.

Another broke his closest Unfortunately calm. One evening, returning to Victor Avenue Hugo found
Dona Luisa with terror aspect of her hands to her head.

- The girl, Marcelo ... The girl!
Chichi was in the room lying on a sofa, pale, with a greenish white,
looking at She stared, as if he saw someone in a vacuum. No crying,
just a slight sheen of pearl shook their eyes, rounded spasm.

- I
want to see! - Said hoarsely -. I need him!

The father guessed that
something terrible had happened to the son of Lacour. Only by this
Chichi could show such desperation. His wife was telling the sad news.
René was wounded, seriously wounded. A shell had exploded on the battery,
killing many of their peers. The officer had been taken from a pile
of corpses was missing hand, was wounded in the legs, trunk, head.

-
I want to see! - Chichi repeated.

And Don Marcelo had to make great
efforts for his daughter to desist from this obstinacy pain that drove
her to require an immediate trip to the front, knocking down barriers,
to reach the injured side. The senator just convinced. Had to wait,
he who was his father, had to resign. René was managing to be transferred
to a hospital Paris.

The great man inspired pity to Desnoyers. Made
efforts to retain his stoic calmness from father to the old style,
reminded his glorious ancestors and to all the heroic figures of the
Roman Republic. But these illusions he suddenly collapsed, and his
friend surprised him crying more than once. An only child, and could
lose it! ... The silence of Chichi inspired him even more sympathy.
No crying, her pain was no tears, no fainting. The greenish pallor
of her face, the brightness of fever in their eyes, a stiffness that
made him walk like a robot, were the only signs of emotion