 

We followed the path that can lead to the Catholic religion, let us look on which shows, if
we depart from it. By abandoning the faith of the Church, where we refuge? If Protestantism,
which one of their sects? What reasons we preferred offers one over the other? Discern is impossible
to blindly embrace any us will be even more, and moreover, this would amount to profess none.
If the philosopher, What is the philosophical unbeliever? It is a negation of all, darkness, despair.
Can one go in search of other religions? Certainly neither Islam nor idolatry, not count us
among its adherents.

Leaving as the Catholic religion, will renounce all, will take the side of life no, let the
years run, that our life is closer to its final limit, no guide for the present, with no light
for the future, will cover their eyes, bow their heads and throw himself a bottomless abyss.

The
Catholic religion offers few guarantees of truth we want.

She also us law imposes a soft, but straight, just, charitable, complying liken ourselves to
the angels, we come to the beauty ideal that humanity can excogitating the most elevated poetry.
She comforts us in our misfortunes, and close our eyes in peace, is presented both more true
and certain, the more we approach the tomb. Ah! the gracious Providence be placed at the edge of
the grave the holy inspirations, as heralds warn us we were going to step on the thresholds
of eternity !....

CHAPTER XXII.

PRACTICAL UNDERSTANDING.

§ I.

A classification of actions.

Practical acts of understanding are what lead us to act, which involves
two questions: what is the purpose that we propose, and what is the
best way to reach you.

Our actions can be exercised, or on objects of nature under the law necessary, and here include
all the arts, or about what falls under free will, and this includes the settlement of our conduct
in regard to ourselves and to others encompassing morality, civility, domestic administration,
and politics.

I said so far about how to think of all materials, saves me the work
of enlarging on these points because he has penetrated the rules and
previous observations not ignore how to propose an end, or how the
media has to find more suitable for catch.

However, I think it is useless to add a few thoughts without leaving the limits of the genre of this
work, to supply light to guide everyone in their different operations.

§ II.

Difficulty of setting an end result.

I am not speaking here of the ultimate goal: this is the happiness in the afterlife, and he leads us to
religion. Only the secondary treatment, as appropriate to achieve the position in society,
to complete a business out of a difficult situation bravely, conciliate
friendship of a person, saved from the bullets of an adversary undo
intrigue us threat, build a device which shows, pose a political system,
finance or administration, down any institution that creates harmful
and so forth.

At first sight it seems that whenever man must work to keep in mind that proposed, not as you want,
but in a clear, specific, fixed. However, the observation shown that it is so, and there are many,
many, even among active and energetic, the who walk a little less than at random.

It happens a thousand times more attributed to men who have had plan. In seeing them occupy very
high position, either by their reputation, or by the functions they perform, we are inclined
naturally imply in any fixed object, with careful premeditation, with vast combination in
the designs, with long foresight of obstacles, with keen knowledge of the true nature of the
order, and its relations with the media that he will lead. Oh! and how much deception! The
man in all walks of life, in all circumstances of life, is always
man, that is a very small thing.

Knows little of himself, not so common form very clear ideas, or
the quality or scope of their forces, sometimes believing more powerful,
sometimes weaker than it is in fact very often find doubtful, confused,
without knowing where it goes, and where he has to go.

Also, for he is often a mystery what suits you, for so the doubts
about their forces are increased with doubts about their self interest.

§

III.

Examination of the proverb: each is the son of his works.

It is true what they say that the particular interest is a safe guide, and that respect to him,
the man rarely wrong. In this as in everything else, walk uncertain and proof of this we have
the sad experience of so many and so often we pave us our misfortune.

What it is beyond question is that because of what he regards happiness as the misfortune to be
verified the adage that man is the son of his works. In the physical world as in morality, chance
does not mean anything. It is true that the instability of human affairs, occur often unforeseen events
that disrupt the best concerted plans, which leave no reap the benefit of thoughtful combinations and
heavy fatigue, and instead favor to others, which had served as his
side were far from deserving it, but neither doubt that this is not
as common as it is commonly said and believed.

The treatment of society accompanied by the appropriate observation, correcting many trials that
had formed Thin on the causes of good or bad fortune to be different people.

Which is unfortunate, that is their fault, if we stick to what he says? none, or almost none. And
yet, if we can reveal the extent to fund their nature, their character,
customs, their way of seeing things, their system of business management,
his treatment, his conversation, manners, relationships of friendship
or family, will not discover rare many causes, if not all of which
contributed to make you unhappy.

The mistakes in this area are often born of fixing the attention on a single event has decided
the fate of the person, without considering that this incident, or
was ready by many others, or that could only have so baneful influence
on account of the situation in particular that was in the person,
their errors, defects or faults.

The fate prosperity or adversity, very rarely depends on a single cause; complícanse usually
several, and very different order, but it is not easy to follow the
thread of events Through such a complication to be designated as primary
cause, or unique, it is perhaps is not nothing but a decisive event,
or a simple occasion.

§ IV.

The hated.

Do you see this man to whom they look with indifference or divert his old friends, whom profess hate
their relatives, and not in society who are interested in him? If you hear the explanation in
which he outlines the causes, these are none other than the injustice of men, envy can not endure
the glare of foreign credit, the universal selfishness does not allow the least sacrifice even
more obligation to those who had to make, kinship, friendship gratitude: in a word, the unhappy is a victim
who has conspired against the human lineage, obstinate in refusing to recognize the high merit
of virtues, the beautiful nature of the unfortunate.

What will be really in the relationship?

Perhaps it is not difficult to discover in the same apology; might
not be hard to tell the insufferable vanity, the rough character,
the arrogance, slander, that have attracted the hatred of some, the
diversion of others, and to be finished by let the isolation unjustly
regrets.

§ V.

The ruined.

Have you heard this one whose fortunes have been ruined over own goodness, or infidelity from
a friend, or an unexpected misfortune, throwing combinations to lose highly successful, projects
full of foresight and sagacity? Well, if you attain your news to procure behavior is not surprising
that Uncover the real causes, certainly very far from what he imagines.

In effect, it may very well happen that there was evidence of infidelity from a friend that
has occurred unforeseen misfortune, may be much truth that his heart is too good, it say it
will be quite possible that their relationship has not lied, but not strange that same relationship
is present you package the causes of their misfortune, which in its conception as shallow as
fast, at his trial very quickly, for in its passing specious and the Sophists, in their itching to
project to the adventure, excessive self-confidence, in contempt of the observations of others,
on the precipitation and boldness of his conduct, ye may find more
than enough cause to have been ruined, without the goodness of his
heart, without Friend's infidelity without unexpected misfortune.

This unfortunately, far from being purely casual, maybe there will
be depended on an order of causes that were working for a long time
and infidelity of friends, would not have been difficult to foresee
and prevent their sad consequences if the person concerned had acted
with more tact in their trust, and to observe the use made of it.

§ VI.

The learned and the ignorant rich broken.

How can this man so clear, so penetrating, as instructed, could not
improve their fortune, or that had been lost when the other so shrunken,
so clumsy, so rude, made progress in his inconceivable?

Should not this be attributed to chance, to fatal, bad star? This often speaks without thinking
they are confused unfortunately the ideas and want to link to inner causes and effects unit have no
relationship.

In truth, one is clear and the other shrunk, that one looks sharp and the other clumsy, that one
is instructed and the other rude, but what good or that clearance, or that apparent penetration,
or the instruction to the effect that it is? It is true that if offered included in society,
be furnished with more grace and ease that the second, that if is necessary to hold a conversation,
that will shine much more than this, that his word is easier, more varied ideas, more pungent
comments, his most prompt replies and acute, that the rich do not mean maybe issue a word of credit
for this or that novel, this or that drama, you know some history, and was shocked to hear the bankrupt
trader explained as a wonder of erudition and knowledge, it is true that not know much about
politics, or administration, or finance, you will not own as many languages; But was it by
chance any of that, when offered to give good direction to the business?

Certainly not. When it is weighed the merits of one, and expresses surprise because luck has
not been favorable, it is passed from one computer to another very different one, you want some
effects come from causes that have nothing to do.

Observe carefully to these two men so unequal in wealth, reflect on qualities of both, behold especially
if you can make the experience in a business view lies with the two, and you will not be difficult
to infer that this prosperity as the ruin of a the other, born of very natural causes.

The one speaks, writes, plans, estimates, give thousand returns to the objects, all evidence,
to all answers, takes over a thousand advantages, disadvantages, hopes, dangers, in a word
exhausted the subject, nothing left to say it or even think. And what does the other? Can
you to sustain the dispute with his opponent? no. "Undo all the calculations
that the first ends stacking? no. Does it meet all the difficulties
to which the opinion is opposed by the opponent? no. In support of
his opinion "copy of reasons such claims as its adversary? no. To
achieve the object, what features projects as varied and ingenious?
no. What does it the unfortunate ignorant, fought, harassed, bullied
by his formidable antagonist?

- What I replied V. to this, says the
man in the projects, and knowledge?

- Nothing, but what do I know
?....

- But, do not seem to V. conclusive my reasons?

- Not really.

-
Let's see, do you have V. something to oppose to this calculation?

It is a matter of numbers, here no more.

- Now you see, what is the role goes well and the problem I have is
that in practice same thing happening.

V. Account with many items, that I'm not quite sure, I'm so chastened
....

- But certainly V. data provided to us?

What there will be interest in deceiving? If there is a loss, we
will not be alone, and part of it that we provide the news.

They are knowledgeable, honest, versed in business, and also have interest it, what more do you
want? What reason is there to doubt?

- I do not doubt anything, I think what V. said of these gentlemen, but what do you want? business
I do not like. Also there are so many contingencies that V. does not take into account ....

-
But what eventualities, sir? if you stick to a simple can be, nothing
will carry on; every business has its risks, but here again I fail
to see any with hints probability.

- V. understands more than me,
says crude shrug, and then wisely wagging Head adds: no sir, I repeat
that I do not like business, I for one do not get into it; V. insists
that it should be so profitable speculation, congratulations, see
above.

I not venture my funds.

The victory in the discussion is without doubt the designer, but who is right? Experience will tell.
The rich apparently so stupid, you look less lively than his antagonist, but instead see clearer,
more deeply, in a safer, more insightful, more accurate.

Can not is true, opposing data to data, reflections to reflections, calculations to calculations,
but the discernment touch that characterizes him, unwrapped by observation and by experience,
we are say with certainty that many data are imaginary, that the calculation is inaccurate,
that do not take into account many unfortunate eventualities, not
only possible but very probable; its insightful look has discovered
evidence of bad faith in some involved in the business, his memory
well stocked with news about the behavior in earlier cases, we guide
to assess the true value of intelligence and probity, who praised
him so much the designer.

What cares not to see So if you see better, with more clarity, distinction and accuracy? What cares
about the lack of this facility to think and speak, well adapted to show off, but very barren in good result,
as irrelevant to the object in question?

§ VII.

Observations. The reverie and good sense.

The liveliness is not penetration: the abundance of ideas, not always
brings clarity and accuracy of thought, the readiness of the trial
is often suspected of error, a long number of reasoning too clever,
often suffers from fallacies, which break the wire the inference,
and go astray to be reliable in them.

It is not always easy task to point out these defects to fixed point,
mostly when the facundo have is a brilliant storyteller who develops
his ideas in a stream of beautiful words.

Human reason is by its very thoughtful, have certain qualities as
men to intended to dazzle, to present objects from the point of view
that suits them or the concern that it is not uncommon to experience,
good opinion, the destination, can not answer to a cloud of specious
arguments other than: "this does not go well, these rationales are
not inconclusive; here is illusion, time will manifest.

"

And there are more good things that they feel they do not know, the need to be seen but not tested,
because there are delicate relations, minutiae are almost imperceptible, which is not possible
to show the speech to those who do not discover at the first glance,
there are points very fleeting view, that in vain looking for who
has failed to put them in the right time.

§ VIII.

Delicacy of intellectual phenomena in their relations with practice.

In the exercise of intelligence and other faculties of man, there
are many phenomena that not expressed any word with no sentence, no
speech, understanding that the experience is also necessary to experience
them, and sometimes is just wasted time which is used to give the
impression, as if a man wanted to force view of explanation, give
an idea of ??the colors to a blind man.

This delicate phenomena abound in every act of our intelligence, but it shows in a particular
way in what is related to the practice. So, should not be abandoned the mind to empty abstractions,
fantastic systems can not be formed purely conventional is necessary
to take things as he does not imagine or want, but as they are, otherwise,
when making the transition from idea to object, will be at odds with
reality and will be baffled all his plans.

Add to this that in the case of the practice, especially in the relations of men with others,
does not affect only the understanding, but others operate simultaneously faculties. There
is only the communication of understanding with understanding, but of heart with heart, to more
than the interplay of ideas, there is also the feelings.

§ IX.

The folly.

The advantage is more gifted in the powers of the soul, if he meets other that either lack any
of them, or have them in lower level, is in the same case that those
who have completed the senses with respect to who is deprived of any.

If you remember these observations, it will save much time and effort, and even trouble in treatment
of men. Laughter sometimes cause its helpless to see how certain
people by away to others of a misjudgment, or make them understand
some truth.

Maybe hear in a solemn conversation with the greatest folly that
serenity and good faith of the world.
